 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts
2012
Building on our
success
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Old Croft, Stanwix 
Carlisle CA3 9BA
www.carrs-milling.com Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London.  www.corporateprm.co.uk
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC (“Carr’s”)  
is focussed on the principal activities of 
agriculture, food and engineering.
The Group’s agriculture business comprises 
retailing of farm machinery/supplies and animal feed 
manufacture in the UK, US and Germany.
Carr’s principal food business is flour milling based  
in three UK locations.
Engineering comprises Bendalls, R Hind and  
Carrs MSM in the UK and Wälischmiller in  
Southern Germany.
OVERVIEW
Financial and 2012 Highlights 01
Chairman’s Statement 02
BUSINESS REVIEW
Chief Executive’s Review 04
Financial Review 12
Board of Directors 15
Registered Office and Advisers 15
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Risk Management 16
Corporate Responsibility 18
Report of the Directors 20
Corporate Governance 25
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Directors’ Remuneration Report 28
Independent Auditors’ Report 31
Consolidated Income Statement 32
Consolidated and Company Statements of 
Comprehensive Income 33
Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets 34
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 35
Company Statement of Changes in Equity 36
Consolidated and Company Statements of 
Cash Flows 37
Principal Accounting Policies 38
Notes to the Financial Statements 43
Five Year Statement 88
Notice of Annual General Meeting 90 
Directory of Operations 91 Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 01
Financial Highlights
2012 Highlights
• Construction of new flour mill at Kirkcaldy commenced
• Acquisition of agriculture business to extend geographical cover
• Construction of new block plant in Tennessee completed
• Megastart branded feed launched throughout UK
• AminoMax production commenced in New York State
• Expansion of fuel oil distribution business
• High level of activity throughout the year in Engineering
• Construction of new factory for Wälischmiller commenced
Revenue
£404. 1m
Earnings per share
98.2p
Profit before tax
£13. 1m
Dividend per share
29.0p
2012
2011
2010
2012
2011
2010
2012
2011
2010
2012
2011
2010
£404.1m
98.2p
£13.1m
29.0p
£373.3m
77.0p
£10.0m
26.0p
£298.1m
51.9p
£7.4m
24.0p CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 02
Chairman’s 
Statement
The strong financial performance achieved by Carr’s for the 52 weeks ended  
1 September 2012 reflects organic growth in Agriculture and Engineering as well as 
successful expansion in selected overseas markets. 
A particular feature of this period’s results was a doubling of 
the contribution to Group profit before taxation from overseas 
businesses to just over 48 per cent.
In Agriculture, the business is increasingly focused on proprietary 
products developed to improve livestock performance and 
profitability. Following significant investment and research in this 
area, we are experiencing strong demand for our products in North 
America, Europe and New Zealand, as well as in the UK, and expect 
this trend to continue.
Strong demand from the nuclear industry in China, France, Germany, 
Japan, Russia, the UK and USA is reflected in the increasing 
contribution of Engineering, which accounted for 36 per cent  
(2011: 17 per cent) of total Group profit before tax for the period. 
Overall, the growth in the value of the Engineering order book is 
providing significant visibility of revenues for the next two years.
The performance of the Food division continues to be depressed 
by long-term over-capacity in the flour industry. Following a detailed 
review of the options for improving the financial performance of the 
flour milling business, the Board has approved the construction of 
a state-of-the-art flour mill adjacent to the Port of Kirkcaldy for a 
total investment of £17 million. This new flour mill, which will replace 
the existing mill, will be at the forefront of mill design, innovation 
and technology, with commissioning expected in September 2013. 
This mill, alongside the re-opened port in Kirkcaldy, will continue to 
produce the high quality product associated with the Carr’s name for 
decades. The Board believes that this investment, once completed, 
should result in significant financial benefits to be derived from 
new sales, operational efficiencies, input cost savings and margin 
improvements.
Investment has been crucial to the success of Carr’s and forms 
a central part of our plans for future profitable growth. During the 
period, a total of £2.0 million was invested in acquisitions  
(Clive Walton Engineering, and the asset purchases of agricultural 
chemists, Laycocks, and animal feed business Afgritech, a joint 
venture of the Group). In addition, a total of £7.0 million was invested 
in Phase I of the new Wälischmiller factory in Germany, a new high 
moisture feed block plant in Tennessee, expansion of our agriculture 
branches and initial expenditure on the new flour mill at Kirkcaldy.
Financial Review
Revenue for the period increased by 8.2 per cent to £404.1 million 
(2011: £373.3 million). Profit before taxation was up 30.5 per cent to 
£13.1 million (2011: £10.0 million).
Basic earnings per share for the period were up by 27.5 per cent to 
98.2 pence (2011: 77.0 pence) with fully diluted earnings per share 
of 97.5 pence (2011: 76.3 pence) and adjusted earnings per share of 
101.5 pence (2011: 88.4 pence).
The net cash generated from continuing operations was £8.3 million  
(2011: £11.4 million). At the end of the period, the Group had 
net debt of £2.5 million compared to net cash of £4.6 million at 
3 September 2011. This reflected total investment and capital 
expenditure during the period of £8.9 million, an increase in working 
capital of £2.0 million, and a contribution to the deficit in the pension 
scheme of £3.3 million.
On 11 November 2011, the Group restructured part of its bank 
facilities with the Clydesdale Bank and with the exception of the 
bank overdraft of £5.0 million, which is renewed annually, the other 
facilities, revolving credit of £10.0 million and term loan of  
£2.5 million, are committed through to November 2014.
As a result of planned investments, we expect net debt to increase 
during the current period. On the basis that overall trading continues 
to be favourable, with maintained margins and strong operational 
cash flow, we expect gearing and interest cover to remain well within 
our conservative levels. This sound financial position means that 
Carr’s is well placed to continue to fund its existing investment plans.
Richard Inglewood 
Chairman Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts  2012 03
Dividend
The Board is proposing an 11.5 per cent increase in the final 
dividend to 14.5 pence per ordinary share which, together with the 
two interim dividends of 7.25 pence per share each, paid in May 
and October 2012, makes a total of 29.0 pence per share for the 
year (2011: 26.0 pence per share). The final dividend, if approved by 
shareholders, will be paid on 18 January 2013 to shareholders on 
the register at the close of business on 21 December 2012 and the 
shares will go ex-dividend on 19 December 2012.  
Board Changes
On 23 October 2012, it was announced that I will retire as Chairman 
and non-executive Director on 28 February 2013. Chris Holmes 
will retire as Chief Executive Officer at the same time to become 
Chairman, with Tim Davies being appointed as Chief Executive 
Officer with effect from 1 March 2013. 
It was announced on 6 July 2012 that Ron Wood is retiring as 
Finance Director on 30 April 2013 to be succeeded by Neil Austin. 
The current Assistant Company Secretary, Katie Sinclair, will take 
over Ron Wood’s position as Company Secretary with effect from  
1 January 2013. In addition to being an outstanding Board colleague 
and Finance Director, Ron Wood has held Board responsibility 
for the Engineering division which he will continue to support in a 
consultancy role for approximately 18 months from the date of 
his retirement. 
These changes to the Board represent the implementation of a 
succession plan under consideration for some time and will result 
in a top quality management team best placed to take Carr’s to the 
next stage of its existing development.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank my Board colleagues for 
their enthusiasm and support during my time at Carr’s. It has been 
a privilege to serve as Chairman for the last seven successful years 
and I am certain that the Group will continue to grow and prosper in 
the future.
Outlook
The challenge for Carr’s after the strong period of financial 
performance experienced in 2012 is how to build on it and  
grow further. 
We view 2013 with optimism, boosted by the likely benefits of the 
considerable investments we have made and are making across all 
three divisions of the Group.
The considerable advance in Engineering revenues and profit  
before tax marks a step change in the size, breadth and capability of 
that division. The order book, particularly overseas, is strong  
and the visibility of revenues gives us confidence that the year’s 
outturn can be matched.
The Food division, by contrast, continues to suffer from the  
well-rehearsed issues of over-capacity and pressure from customers 
but remains profitable. Wheat prices remain high as a consequence 
of the poor UK harvest with lower yields and poorer quality although 
the position of our mills near ports, equipped to take wheat from 
mainland Europe gives us some competitive advantage. However, 
we do not expect any significant improvement in profitability until our 
new state of the art plant at Kirkcaldy is commissioned at the end of 
the current financial period.
Against that background, it is likely that the Agriculture division will 
be the main source of growth in 2013. The current period has started 
well, benefiting from strong sales of animal feed in the UK and 
particularly in the USA where forage quality is poor, caused by 
the drought conditions in many states. We also expect good growth 
from a full year’s production of AminoMax, the patented rumen 
bypass protein at the plant at Watertown, New York State. As 
before, the drivers of growth in the division are the demand for Carr’s 
proprietary products for livestock across all markets as well as the 
expansion of the retail, machinery franchise and fuel depot networks 
in the UK.
In pursuit of our objectives, the Group continues to evaluate 
acquisition and other investment opportunities with vigour, assisted 
by our strong balance sheet and cash flow.
Richard Inglewood
Chairman 
16 November 2012
Photos
Left: Watertown plant
Centre: Megastart
New mill at Kirkcaldy
Right: Evaporator D
Investment has been crucial to  
the success of Carr’s and forms  
a central part of our plans for  
future profitable growth.
“
“ Chief Executive’s 
Review
With our highest ever profits, the 2012 result broke the 
Group’s previous record set last year, by 30 per cent.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
We have maintained our emphasis on continued growth with capital 
projects and acquisitions across all three divisions. In addition 
we have embarked on further projects that will support the future 
growth of the Group in both the UK and abroad.
In the period, the major investment projects completed,　commenced  
and proposed include:
•  £17.0 million for a new mill at Kirkcaldy
•  £0.4 million for a fuel oil depot at Cockermouth 
•   £4.4 million to replace the Wälischmiller Engineering factory  
scheduled for completion in 2013
•  £1.2 million for expansion of the Agriculture Retail Branch  
at Carlisle
• £2.2 million for a new Agriculture Retail Branch at Annan
•  £0.7 million for a low moisture block plant in Tennessee
•  £0.4 million for the expansion of the AminoMax plant in 
Watertown, New York State
• £0.8 million acquisition of Clive Walton Engineering Limited
•  £0.8 million acquisition of J L Marsden + Petsmart Ltd  
t/a Laycocks
Of the above £27.9 million investment programme, £8.6 million was 
incurred in the period to 1 September 2012 and £19.3 million is 
expected to be incurred in the current financial period.
Staff
This year has not been without challenges, and the Board together 
with senior management recognise that without the continued 
commitment and dedication of our employees our success would 
not have been possible. Carr’s is fortunate to have many employees 
with 20, 30 and even 40 years’ service and this experience together 
with expertise enables Carr’s to thrive.  
I welcome our members of staff joining this year through 
acquisitions. On behalf of the Board I express our thanks and 
appreciation to all employees throughout the Group for their 
continued commitment and dedication.
Chris Holmes
Chief Executive Officer
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 04
Agriculture
Food
Engineering 26.1% up from 2011 
£8. 1m
64.9% down from 2011
£0.4m
183.8% up from 2011 
£4.7m
PROFIT BEFORE TAX BY SECTOR
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts  2012 05
A successful period following 
growth and expansion both 
in the UK and abroad.
“
“
Agriculture
Food
Engineering
Photos
Left: Carrs Billington fuel lorry
Centre: Flour packer
Horslyx
Right: Opening of Watertown plant
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements Agriculture 
The trading environment for Agriculture during the period was broadly 
favourable, and although input prices were volatile, growth was primarily 
driven by feed block both in the UK and overseas, and retail and machinery 
sales in the UK.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW  
continued
Revenue for the period grew by 7 .7 per cent to £293.8 million (2011: £272.7 million) with  
profit before tax increasing by 26.1 per cent to £8.1 million (2011: £6.4 million). 
Profit before tax, including contribution from associate and joint ventures, increased by  
15.6 per cent to £9.5 million (2011: £8.2 million).
Feed block sales increased by 24 per cent, reflecting market 
share gains in the UK and overseas and remain a prime source of 
growth in this division.
In the USA, the northern states had a very dry, mild winter with 
little snow, a complete contrast to the previous period; whilst the 
southern states experienced heavy rain in the summer followed 
by a prolonged drought. These weather conditions generated the 
demand for low moisture feed blocks and this, combined with 
new business won, resulted in a 37 per cent increase in Smartlic 
and Feed in the Drum sales.
In Tennessee, Gold-Bar Feed Supplements LLC, our 50 per cent 
joint venture, is now in full production of high moisture feed blocks 
and is expected to contribute positively to revenues and profits for 
2012/13. In April 2012, full production of AminoMax, the patented 
rumen bypass protein, started at the 50 per cent joint venture 
plant at Watertown, New York State, after early engineering issues 
were resolved. The high quality of the product has been well 
received by US dairy farmers and the plant is on track to achieve 
profitable sales for the current period. Investment is being made in 
a new by-pass amino acid product, Aminogreen, and once trials 
are concluded it is planned that full production will commence 
alongside AminoMax.
Sales of low and high moisture feed blocks from our UK and 
German operations grew by 12 per cent with continued growth 
of our branded product, Crystalyx, continuing throughout Europe 
and New Zealand. Scotmin, based in Ayr, increased profitability 
through a combination of production efficiencies, increased sales 
of Megalix, and the introduction of the Megastart range marketed 
through the enlarged distribution network.
By contrast dairy feed sales remained static during the period but, 
overall, compound feed sales were down 7 per cent. Reduced 
margins for the period were affected by substantial increases in 
raw material prices, which are now showing some signs of easing.
Retail sales continued to achieve growth on last period’s excellent 
result with a 13 per cent increase. This is the result of an enlarged 
product range being sold through an extended branch network in 
Scotland and the North of England, and the successful integration 
of Safe at Work, acquired in April 2011. Machinery sales are a 
continuing success with a 23 per cent increase following the  
18 per cent growth of last period. This is attributable to new 
franchises increasing the product selection for our increasing 
number of customers.
In July 2012, the £0.8 million acquisition of Laycocks, of which 
£0.7 million was paid on completion, added branches in Malton, 
Settle and Skipton and further increased the veterinary product 
range available to our customers. It is expected to make a 
profitable contribution in 2012/13. A new branch, to be opened at 
the new auction mart at Kendal in December 2012, will take the 
total number of retail branches to 26.
Despite the relatively mild winter, fuel sale volumes were 
maintained, reflecting market share gains and positive 
contributions from new depots at Hexham (opened in August 
2011) and Cockermouth (opened in February 2012).
Photos
Left: Megalix
Right: AminoMax
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 06 AminoMax products have  
been well received by  
US dairy farmers and the  
plant is on track to  
achieve profitable sales.
“
“
Profit before tax
£8. 1m
2012
2011
2010
£8.1m
£6.4m
£6.2m
Revenue
£293.8m
2012
2011
2010
£293.8m
£272.7m
£215.2m
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts  2012 07
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements Food
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
continued
Revenue for the period from our three flour mills, at Kirkcaldy in Fife, Silloth in Cumbria and 
Maldon in Essex, was down by 2.6 per cent to £80.5 million (2011: £82.6 million) with profit 
before tax falling by 64.9 per cent to £0.4 million (2011: £1.3 million) mainly as a result of 
significant industry-imposed selling price reductions and rising wheat prices.
The continuing over-capacity in the flour milling industry had a 
negative impact during the period when volumes were down by 
1 per cent and the wheat price was volatile with a price range 
of £180 per tonne to £250 per tonne experienced in the last 
twelve months. The financial impact on this was partly mitigated 
by the performance of our wheat handling facility at Kirkcaldy, 
which exceeded our expectations, and the continued growth of 
speciality flour sales, in particular the expansion of our products 
sold to the ethnic food market.
The decision to invest £17 million in a new replacement flour 
mill at Kirkcaldy followed a comprehensive review by the Board 
of the options available to improve financial performance, and 
increase the competitiveness of Carr’s in a difficult market.  
The Board took into account: the fact that the current mill is 
near the end of its natural life, the ever increasing importance 
of food safety, Carr’s market position, and potential operational 
efficiencies to be achieved.
Carr’s has a strong customer base in Scotland and the North of 
England. Kirkcaldy is the ideal location for the new mill, given 
the success of the re-opened port, and the logistics of the 
customers the mill serves. 
The new mill will provide significant and immediate efficiencies 
in the areas of operations, energy consumption and raw 
material costs. Even with the less favourable market backdrop 
persisting, the profitability of the Food division is expected to be 
very positively impacted by the commissioning of this new mill. 
Construction of the new mill commenced in July with 
commissioning scheduled for September 2013.
Photos
Left: Bagged flour
Right: Ethnic bread
Bottom: Carr’s strong  
white flour
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 08 £17 million in a new  
flour mill at Kirkcaldy followed  
a comprehensive review by  
the Board of the options  
available to improve  
financial performance.
“
“
Profit before tax
£0.4m
2012
2011
2010
£0.4m
£1.3m
£1.5m
Revenue
£80.5m
2012
2011
2010
£80.5m
£82.6m
£67.1m
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts  2012 09
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements Engineering
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
continued
Profit before tax for the period increased by 183.8 per cent to £4.7 million (2011: £1.7 million)  
on revenue up by 65.2 per cent to £29.7 million (2011: £18.0 million).
The 18 per cent revenue growth seen in the UK reflects 
steady demand, mainly from the nuclear industry. Specialist 
fabricators, Bendalls, completed a contract for the supply of 
pressure vessels to Bechtel in the US for the river protection 
project-water treatment plant in Handford, Washington State. 
Post-delivery issues arose which we are working with Bechtel 
to resolve. It also delivered, in the second half, a major vessel 
for the UK’s largest nuclear project, Evaporator D, at Sellafield 
in Cumbria. Outside the nuclear industry, Bendalls commenced 
work on a £4 million project to supply pressure vessels for a 
floating production, storage and offloading platform being built 
by Hyundai for the BP Quad 204 area, west of the Shetland 
Islands. This is scheduled for delivery in early 2013.
In May 2012, Bendalls acquired Clive Walton Engineering 
Limited for £0.8 million, a precision machining business which is 
expected to make a positive contribution to revenue and profit 
in 2012/13. The acquisition complements the Bendalls business, 
enabling a wider set of skills to be offered to customers. 
In the second half of the 2012 financial period, the performance  
of Carrs MSM benefited from the “life of plant” contract,  
signed in the first half of the period, for the supply of critical  
parts to Sellafield.
Wälischmiller, the remote handling and robotics business 
based in Germany, has been exceptionally busy and operating 
to capacity during the year. In order to fulfil existing contracts 
and support future growth, it has expanded its design and 
production engineering teams. Significant contracts for remote 
handling equipment were completed for customers in France, 
Japan and South Korea as well as delivery of the specialist 
Telbot
®
 robots for a decommissioning plant in Germany. 
Following the successful conclusion of the tests in Norway 
for our designed Telbot
®
 for inspecting gas tanks for Shell, 
discussions are on-going to progress the project on a 
commercial basis.
Wälischmiller is currently working with the nuclear division of 
Mitsui to design specialist remote handling equipment for use at 
the tsunami destroyed Fukushima plant in Japan. 
 
Phase I (new office accommodation and some production 
capacity) of the new 15.5 million factory at Markdorf was 
completed in October 2012, with construction of the main 
production facility now underway and scheduled for completion 
in October 2013. 
Chris Holmes
Chief Executive Officer 
16 November 2012
Photos
Left: Telbot
®
 TB300
Right: VNE – MSM 
manipulator
Bottom: Evaporator D
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 10 Bendalls commenced work on a  
£4 million project to supply 
pressure vessels for a floating 
production, storage and offloading 
platform being built by Hyundai for 
the BP Quad 204 area.
“
“
Profit before tax
£4.7m
2012
2011
2010
£4.7m
£1.7m
£1.0m
Revenue
£29.7m
2012
2011
2010
£29.7m
£18.0m
£15.8m
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts  2012 11
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements The Group’s
business
FINANCIAL REVIEW
The Group’s operations are organised into three business divisions, 
agriculture, food and engineering, and the performance of these 
three divisions in the period is discussed in the Chief Executive’s 
Review on pages 4 to 11. The agriculture business operates 
predominately in the North of England, Wales and Scotland, in 
addition there are four animal feed plants in the US and a plant in 
Germany. The flour business operates entirely within the UK and the 
engineering business operates in the UK and Germany.
The markets in which all three businesses operate are competitive 
both in terms of pricing from other suppliers and the retail 
environment in general which has a direct impact on many of our 
customers. Despite this, Carr’s businesses have a long record of 
increasing sales and profits through a combination of investing in 
modern efficient factories and equipment, developing a range of 
quality products and making sound acquisitions. The businesses 
are under the control of stable, experienced and talented 
operational management teams supported by a skilled workforce.
 
Business objectives
There are five key elements to the Group’s strategy for meeting its 
objectives of continuing growth and profitability:
•  Deliver quality, innovative and cost-effective products and 
services to our customers
• Organic growth
• Seek acquisitions to complement our existing businesses
• Maximise operational efficiency
• Securing employee health and safety
Business strategies
The Group’s strategy is to focus on growing the quality end of 
the markets in which we operate, to establish meaningful and 
long lasting relationships with our customers, by a combination 
of product development and high service levels, and to invest 
in quality facilities. Each business within the Group is given the 
responsibility for developing its own plans to deliver the objectives 
of the Group with particular emphasis on growing sales through 
the supply of quality products, service and product innovation, 
improving operational efficiency and securing employee health and 
safety. The role of the Board in achieving the Group’s objectives has 
been to support operational management and to identify suitable 
acquisitions that will bring new customers to the Group or will 
secure existing market positions.
Current and future development and performance
The key features of the period have been the record profit before 
tax (from continuing operations) for the Group and continued capital 
investment including the decision to invest in a new flour mill at 
Kirkcaldy to replace our existing adjacent mill.
The trading environment in which the Group operates has  
remained challenging. During the year, the flour business had  
to manage volatile wheat prices, which it looked to recover  
through a combination of selling price increases and operational 
efficiency improvements.
The Group has experienced continuing competitor pressure, in all 
sectors, but the expansion of our agricultural branch network, our 
expansion of our oil depots, and strong engineering order book 
have to a large extent mitigated these pressures.
Revenue
Reported revenue was 8.2 per cent ahead of last period reflecting 
growth across the agriculture and engineering sectors. The 
highlights for the period were the 37 per cent growth in low moisture 
feed blocks in the US, and the 29 per cent growth in high moisture 
feed blocks following the re-launch of Megastart and Megalix. The 
oil sector maintained revenue volumes year on year despite the 
contrasting winter periods and the Engineering division completed 
many large contracts.
Operating profit
Group operating profit of £12.1 million is up 31.8 per cent on last 
period and reflects the revenue growth, mainly organic, and the 
benefit of operational efficiencies.
Share of results of joint ventures 
The Group’s share of the post-tax result of its joint ventures, all 
agricultural related companies, was £201,000 (2011: £321,000). In 
the second half of the period the production facilities at the two new 
joint venture companies were commissioned, one in New York state 
producing AminoMax and the other in Tennessee producing high 
moisture feed blocks. Due to early engineering issues, which are 
now resolved, in the AminoMax plant the joint venture missed the 
seasonal market and returned a loss in the period. The plant is on 
track to achieving profitable sales in the current period.
Ronald Wood
Finance Director
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 12
Photos
Left: New mill at Kirkcaldy 
Right: Wälischmiller manipulator Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Profit before tax
Profit before tax at £13.1 million (2011: £10.0 million) was 30.5 per 
cent ahead of the prior period. The growth in profit was evident in the 
increase from overseas with 48.3 per cent (2011: 24.9 per cent) of the 
Group’s profit generated from our businesses in Germany and USA.
Taxation
The Group’s effective tax charge on profit from activities after net 
finance costs and excluding profits from associate and joint ventures 
was 25.3 per cent (2011: 24.0 per cent). A reconciliation of the actual 
total tax charge to the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 
25.16 per cent is set out in note 9 to the financial statements. 
The substantive enactment of the Finance Act 2012 reduced the 
Corporation tax rate from 26 per cent to 24 per cent in the period to  
1 September 2012.  
Earnings per share (continuing operations)
The profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company 
amounted to £8.5 million (2011: £6.8 million), and basic earnings 
per share was 98.2p (2011: 77.0p), an increase of 27.5 per cent. 
Adjusted earnings per share of 101.5p (2011: 88.4p) is calculated by 
dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders for the period, 
before non-recurring items and amortisation of intangible assets, by 
the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Cash flow and net debt
The Group has continued to deliver strong operational cash flow.  
A significant investment programme, totalling over £27 million, 
commenced in 2012 and will be completed in 2013. This programme 
is a major reason for the movement of net cash of £4.6 million at  
3 September 2011 to net debt of £2.5 million at 1 September 2012.
 (£’000) (£’000)
Net cash at 3 September 2011 4,572
Profit for the period before tax
Tax
Depreciation, amortisation and profit on 
  disposal
Share of profit from associate and joint  
  ventures
Pensions
Working capital movements
Net cash used in investing activities
Net cash used in financing activities
Other movements
13,059 
(2,710)
4,373
(1,381)
(3,772)
(1,958)
(11,563)
(6,152)
531
Net decrease in cash and cash 
equivalents (9,573)
Net proceeds from new issue of bank loans
Repayment of borrowings
Finance lease repayments
Movement in other borrowings
(2,381)
5,911
940
(628)
Net increase in loans and other 
borrowings 3,842
New finance leases
Other movements
(1,241)
(55)
Non cash changes (1,296)
Net debt at 1 September 2012 (2,455)
Pensions
The Group operates its current pension arrangements on a defined 
benefit and defined contribution basis. The defined benefit section 
is closed to new members and has 73 active members, 93 deferred  
members and 197 current pensioners, and the scheme receives 
additional contributions from the Group in accordance with the 
latest actuarial valuation as agreed between the Company and  
the Trustees.
The valuation under the IAS19 accounting basis showed a deficit 
before the related deferred tax asset in the scheme at 1 September 
2012 of £5.4 million (2011: £6.0 million). Actuarial losses of  
£2.7 million (2011: gains of £0.7 million) have been reported in the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. 
Following the disposal of Carrs Fertilisers and in agreement with 
the Scheme Trustees the Company injected £1.0 million into the 
defined benefit section on 6 September 2011 and £2.0 million in 
the prior financial period on 13 July 2011.
A Group subsidiary undertaking is a participating employer in a 
defined benefit pension scheme. This scheme is closed to future 
service accrual. The IAS19 accounting basis showed a deficit, 
for that scheme, before the related deferred tax asset in the 
scheme at 1 September 2012 of £4.7 million (2011: £4.5 million). 
The details of both pension schemes are given on note 29 to the 
financial statements.
Key performance indicators
We monitor our performance against the strategy by means of key 
performance indicators (‘KPIs’).
Organic sales growth year on year increase in sales 
revenue excluding the impact of 
acquisitions and disposals
Gross return on 
revenue
gross profit as a percentage of 
revenue
Net return on 
revenue
operating profit before non-recurring 
items as a percentage of revenue
Adjusted earnings 
per share
profit attributed to equity 
shareholders before non-recurring 
items and amortisation divided by 
the weighted average of shares in 
issue during the period
Return on net assets profit before tax and before non-
recurring items and amortisation as 
a percentage of net assets
Operating cash flow cash generated from operations less 
tax and net interest paid
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts  2012 13
Group Revenue £404.1m
Profit before tax £13.1m
Net finance costs £0.7m FINANCIAL REVIEW  
continued
 Performance against KPIs
 2012 2011
Organic sales growth* 8.1% 20.8%
Gross return on revenue* 10.9% 11.0%
Net return on revenue* 3.0% 2.7%
Adjusted earnings per share* 101.5p 88.4p
Return on net assets* 19.9% 17.9%
Operating cash flow* £8.3m £11.4m
*continuing operations
Treasury policies
The Group’s policy is structured to ensure adequate financial resources 
are available for the development of its business while managing 
its currency and interest rate risks. The Group’s strategy, policy and 
controls are developed centrally and approved by the Board. 
The main elements of treasury activity are outlined below.
Functional currency
The functional currency of the Group is sterling.
The Group’s policy is structured to ensure adequate financial 
resources are available for the development of its business while 
managing its currency and interest rate risks. The Group’s strategy, 
policy and controls are developed centrally and approved by the 
Board. The Group contracts to purchase raw materials for its flour 
milling activities in advance of sales contracts.
Foreign currency risk
The major transactional foreign currency risk facing the Group 
is in the purchase of raw materials for the flour milling operation. 
The major currency involved is the euro. In addition, the Group 
is committed to build a new flour mill at Kirkcaldy and part of the 
expenditure on equipment is in Swiss francs. The policy of the Group 
is to hedge using forward foreign exchange contracts with UK banks 
as soon as commitment has been given to the underlying transaction. 
 
The results of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures 
are translated into sterling at the average rates of exchange for the 
period concerned. As this translation has no impact on cash flow, 
the Group chooses not to hedge its foreign subsidiaries’ earnings.
The balance sheets of the foreign subsidiaries are translated into 
sterling at the closing US dollar and euro exchange rates. Any gains 
or losses on the translation of the balance sheet into sterling are 
recorded in reserves. 
Interest rate risk
With low interest rates and low borrowings the Board decided 
not to manage its cost of borrowing through interest rate hedging 
instruments. The Board will continue to review the appropriateness 
of the interest rate hedging should the level of borrowing increase.
Credit risk
Practically all sales are made on credit terms to an extensive 
range of customers, which include UK food producers, agricultural 
merchants, farmers and the nuclear industry. Overdue accounts are 
reviewed monthly at divisional management meetings. Historically, 
the incidence of bad debts is low. However, this period the food 
sector experienced a bad debt arising from a long established food 
producer and our exposure, net of provision, was £256,000. The 
ongoing current financial climate requires the Group’s credit control 
functions to be particularly vigilant.
Funding
The Group has historically been cash generative. The bank position 
for each operation is monitored on a daily basis and capital 
expenditure above a certain level is approved at the monthly Group 
board meeting. Each operation has access to the Group’s overdraft 
facility or has facilities specific to that operation and all term debt 
is arranged centrally. Bank facilities for more than half the Group’s 
funding requirements is agreed for the two years to November 
2014. The balance of the Group’s funding is negotiated annually.
Resources, risks and uncertainties
The Group aims to safeguard the assets that give it competitive 
advantage, being its product quality, product innovation, food safety 
and service levels, its operational management, skilled workforce 
and its modern well-equipped factories.
Reputation
It is the responsibility of local operational management assisted by 
the Group Risk Manager to maintain and where possible enhance 
the Group’s reputation for product quality, product innovation, food 
safety service levels and a culture of safe working.
Manufacturing facilities
The Group has continued to invest in its production facilities in all 
three sectors and has authorised significant capital funding on its 
engineering facilities in Germany and a new flour mill in Kirkcaldy. 
It intends to continue investing to ensure that it maintains a 
competitive edge. 
Employees
While the Group continues to invest in facilities and equipment 
we also continue to invest in our people. The Group offers training 
programmes where additional skills are required to undertake their 
responsibilities. The businesses have strategies for retaining staff, 
including the provision of competitive terms and conditions, and a 
contributory occupational pension scheme. 
Principal risks and uncertainties 
Each year the Group carries out a formal exercise to identify and 
assess the impact of risks on its business and this year the exercise 
was carried out in August 2012, and the main risks are set out on 
pages 16 to 17.
Retirement
After 25 great years at Carr’s I have decided that the time has come 
to retire, and with some sadness, earlier this year I announced 
that I would retire on 30 April 2013. I am extremely proud of what 
Carr’s has achieved over the last two decades. I have had the good 
fortune to work with a great team of dedicated colleagues, whose 
commitment, vision and teamwork has made the business what it is 
today. I hand over to Neil Austin, a colleague of many years. Neil’s 
energy and ambition for the business will I am sure lead the Group 
forward and, together with the Chief Executive Officer, Carr’s will 
continue to prosper under their stewardship.
On behalf of the Board
Ronald C Wood
Finance Director
16 November 2012
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 14 Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
REGISTERED OFFICE AND ADVISERS
Registered Office
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Old Croft, Stanwix
Carlisle CA3 9BA
Registered No. 98221
Chartered Accountants and Statutory 
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
89 Sandyford Road
Newcastle upon Tyne
NE1 8HW
Bankers
Clydesdale Bank PLC
82 English Street
Carlisle CA3 8HP
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
37 Lowther Street
Carlisle CA3 8EL
Financial Adviser and Broker
Investec Bank (UK) Limited
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
Solicitors
Hill Dickinson LLP
1 St Paul’s Square
Liverpool L3 9SJ
Atkinson Ritson
15 Fisher Street
Carlisle CA3 8RW
Registrars
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent
BR3 4TU
Lord Inglewood
Non-Executive Chairman
Chris Holmes
Chief Executive Officer
Ronald Wood
Finance Director
Alistair Wannop
Non-Executive Director
Robert Heygate
Non-Executive Director
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts  2012 15 Our risk analysis and management 
processes enable the Group to achieve 
its objectives and support our strategy by 
anticipating and mitigating potential risks. 
RISK MANAGEMENT
The process involves the identification and prioritisation of key risks, 
together with associated controls and plans for mitigation.
The risks identified are collated and reported to the Finance 
Director. This culminates in the identification for the Board of the 
Group’s key business, financial, operational and compliance risks 
with associated action plans and controls to mitigate them where 
possible. Further details of the risk management process are on 
page 14 and the key risks and uncertainties identified as part of this 
process, together with some of the mitigating actions that we are 
taking, are listed below.
Key Risks
Risk Impact and description Examples of mitigating actions
Failure to act safely 
and to maintain 
the continued safe 
operation of our 
facilities and quality of 
our products
The safety of our employees, customers, 
contractors, suppliers, and the communities in 
which we operate is fundamentally important. 
We must operate within all laws, regulations 
and rules relating to health, safety and the 
environment. The operation of our sites involves 
many risks, including failure or sub-standard 
performance of equipment and improper 
installation or operation of equipment.
•   Health and safety policies and procedures at 
all facilities
•   Designated staff at all locations to ensure 
policies are embedded and measured
•   Product safety and quality policies and 
procedures in place to prevent contamination
•   Regular review of safety/environmental 
performance at group divisional level
•   Monitoring of health and safety/environmental 
performance across the Group by means of 
an established site audit programme
Failure to attract, 
develop and retain key 
personnel
Performance, knowledge and skills of 
employees are central to success. We must 
attract, integrate and retain the talent required 
to fulfil our ambitions. Inability to retain key 
knowledge and adequately plan for succession 
could have a negative impact on the  
Group’s performance.
•   Remuneration policies designed to attract, 
retain and reward employees with ability and 
experience to execute Group strategy
•   Strategies to provide opportunities for 
employees to develop careers
•   Succession planning takes place at 
management and Board level
The Group is exposed to a number of other risks, some of which 
may have a material impact on its results. It is not possible to 
identify or anticipate every risk that may affect the Group.  
Our overall success depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed 
in different economic, social and political environments and to 
manage and to mitigate these risks.
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 16 Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Risk Impact and description Examples of mitigating actions
Non-compliance 
with legislation and 
regulation
The Group operates in diverse markets and 
therefore is exposed to a range of legislation 
and regulation, which we must comply with and 
understand. Any breach could have a financial 
impact and damage our reputation.
•   Legal advisers monitor changes in legislation 
and advise directors accordingly
•   Legal advisers maintain compliance policies 
in areas such as antitrust, money laundering 
and anti-corruption laws
Fluctuations in prices, 
offtake and availability 
of raw materials, 
energy, freight and other 
operating inputs
Margins may be affected by fluctuations in 
crop prices due to factors such as harvest and 
weather conditions, crop disease, crop yields, 
alternative crops and by-product values. In 
some cases, due to the basis for pricing in sales 
contracts, or due to competitive markets, we 
may not be able to pass on to customers the full 
amount of raw material price increases or higher 
energy, freight or other operating costs. 
•  Strategic relationships with suppliers
•   Multiple-source suppliers for key ingredient 
supplies
•   Raw material and energy purchasing policies 
to provide security of supply
•   Derivatives used where possible to hedge 
exposure to movements in future prices of 
commodities
Failure to protect 
intellectual property
Our commercial success depends, in part, on 
obtaining and maintaining trademark and patent 
protection on certain products and technology. 
We must successfully defend trademarks and 
patents against third-party challenges  
or infringements.
•   The Group legal adviser, supported by expert 
patent lawyers, monitors all patents
•   Organised and secure process for identifying 
and recording innovations, trade secrets and 
potential patentable ideas
Failure to maintain high 
standards of customer 
service and identify 
important consumer 
trends
Not meeting the required service levels, 
especially where the business is heavily reliant 
on a particular customer, and/or falling behind 
on emerging trends could have a negative 
impact on performance and reputation.
•   Management work closely with customers to 
identify emerging trends
•   Area account managers in place for major 
customers
Failure to maintain 
an effective system 
of internal financial 
controls
Without effective internal financial controls, we 
could be exposed to financial irregularities and 
losses from acts which could have a significant 
impact on the ability of the business to operate. 
We must safeguard business assets and ensure 
accuracy and reliability of records and  
financial reporting.
•   Authorisation policies ensure that key tasks 
are segregated to safeguard assets
•   Detailed internal finance and capital 
expenditure manuals set out procedure
•   Group financial performance monitored with 
monthly Board reports and regular forecasting
•   Chief Executive and Finance Director 
undertake detailed business and financial 
reviews
Managing procurement 
costs
The flour division purchases a significant 
quantity of raw materials each year and incurs 
many other input costs such as utilities. 
The Group’s cost base can be affected by 
fluctuating raw material services and energy 
prices. An inability to pass on increases in costs 
quickly to the customer could adversely affect 
the results of the Group.
•   Through the division’s wheat director, we 
have strong relationships with suppliers, 
enabling optimal negotiated prices
•   Forward prices are agreed and locked in 
where appropriate and available
•   The Group seeks to pass on cost increases 
wherever possible to its customers through 
price rises, however, competitive constraints 
in achieving this can affect the Group’s results
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts  2012 17 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 18
Our Environmental
Commitment
We are committed to conducting our business in a manner that is sensitive to  
the environmental needs of the communities within which we operate.
Our people
We want Carr’s to be an employer of choice, and we believe 
recruiting, developing and engaging employees is critical to meeting 
and sustaining our business objectives. The Group is committed to:
•  Employment policies free from discrimination;
•   An environment that does not tolerate harassment or 
discrimination;
•   Ensuring equal opportunity for all existing and potential 
employees;
•   Fair treatment of people with disabilities regarding applications, 
training, promotion and career development;
•   Providing fair terms of employment and competitive 
remuneration; and
•   Enabling employees to access information enabling engagement 
with the Group’s objectives and achievements.
Across the Group women accounted for 24 per cent of the total 
number of employees.
Safety
People are the Group’s biggest asset, and in addition to our 
commitment to treating our employees with dignity and integrity, 
the safety of our employees is paramount to ensure they will 
continue to contribute to the running of a successful business. This 
means that we have to provide safe and healthy conditions for our 
employees, customers, contractors and visitors at all our locations. 
Our continuous improvement of our safety record is essential to our 
operation as a successful business.
Overview 
The safety performance of the Group significantly improved this 
year, with a 24 per cent reduction in the total number of accidents. 
Each of our divisions reported fewer accidents, which can be 
attributed to: 
•  the continuing promotion of safe working practices;
•  raising awareness;
•  creating an enhanced safety culture; and 
•  increasing workforce involvement. 
The number of minor accidents decreased by 13%
The number of major accidents decreased by 100%
The number of RIDDOR injuries (injuries involving  
3 days or more off work
1
) decreased by 63%
Days lost from RIDDOR injuries fell by 82%
 1.  RIDDOR reporting requirements changed on 6 April 2012 to include only accidents 
involving over 7 days off work. We have reported on a like for like basis to get a 
direct comparison with 2010-2011.
There have been no fatalities.
We are exceptionally pleased with our results, however, there is 
always room for improvement and the Risk Manager will continue 
to improve the audit programme, commence an in-house training 
programme, as well as continue with regular reviews of physical 
conditions at each site.
Environment
We play an active role in tackling climate change, reducing waste 
and looking after the natural environment. We are committed 
to conducting our business in a manner that is sensitive to the 
environmental needs of the communities within which we operate. 
This aim will be achieved by upholding defined, key environmental 
standards in all of our operations. 
Overview
Project 250 was established at the end of 2010 with the target of 
reducing our energy usage by 2.5 per cent year on year. With the 
ever increasing importance of our commitment to the environment, 
Project 250 has been expanded to become the Group Environment 
Committee, managed by a team of individuals representing 
the entire Group. The Committee has implemented the Energy 
Efficiency Policy for the Group and has engaged all personnel 
in the benefits, both business and environmental, of reducing 
energy usage. The Committee now has the remit to review and 
propose to the Board all environmentally friendly projects, including 
any suggestions for renewable energy initiatives. Naturally, the 
Committee remains committed to ensuring the reduction in both the 
Group’s energy usage and carbon footprint. The carbon footprint 
is a measure of the impact that a person, organisation or product 
has on the environment in terms of the amount of carbon dioxide 
produced during a given period or product cycle. Calculating our 
total carbon footprint helps us to manage our overall environmental 
impact and benchmark our performance year on year. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts  2012 19
Results 
In reducing our energy usage we are able to make financial savings 
for the group, as well as helping the environment.
This year we managed to build on last year’s success: 
•   Energy use per unit of production reduced by 1.2 per cent, due to 
energy efficiency projects and improvements in plant utilisation. 
•   Primary carbon footprint from manufacturing energy use reduced 
by 0.9 per cent per unit of production, resulting largely from these 
energy efficiency initiatives.
Outlook 
The Committee is working to further improve environmental 
performance, and to provide action plans that will build on our 
progress to date and looking towards the reporting requirement on 
greenhouse gases next year. These plans include:
•   Reducing energy usage per unit of production, through a 
constant focus on efficient operation, supported where 
appropriate by capital investment; 
•  Review of global operations;
•  Continuing to evaluate our carbon footprint; 
•   Improving engagement with colleagues and external stakeholders 
on our environmental performance and other sustainability 
matters; and
•  Investigating renewable energy source options.
Community
We want to play a positive role in the communities in which we 
operate. We chiefly do this through charitable donations and by 
supporting our employees’ participation in community activities.
Overview
Each year we support a significant number of organisations, 
ranging from long-established charities to fledgling community 
organisations. Community support takes many forms, depending 
on the needs of the organisation. It includes funding, employee 
volunteering, consultancy, and providing mentoring and  
business skills.
On-going
This year we decided to sponsor a research student throughout their 
4 year research project into food security at Lancaster University. 
The research project will look at wheat root systems and how to 
make wheat, one of the world’s most important crops “climate 
proof” enabling growth in hostile areas. We recognise that this 
research directly aligns with the interests of Carr’s and we want to 
assist with the future development of the food industry.
Throughout the year we continued our special relationship with 
the Lake District Calvert Trust; a charity which enables people of 
all ages with disabilities, together with their families and friends, to 
achieve their potential through the challenge of outdoor adventure 
in the countryside. We have donated £25,000 this year, which we 
hope will help to enable the trust to continue with the fantastic 
work they undertake. In addition, several of our employees have 
participated in volunteering to complete necessary works at the 
Trust. Such community involvement benefits our employees 
by enhancing the facilities at the Trust, and offers personal 
development opportunities.
In addition to the work we do with the Trust we also support a 
variety of charities and organisations such as:
•   The Cumbria Community Foundation, which tackles poverty and 
disadvantage and improves the quality of community life for the 
people in Cumbria.
•   Carlisle Youth Zone which serves the social, recreational and 
emotional needs of young people of the area.
•  A variety of musical and artistic groups in the local community.
•   A variety of schools and nurseries and the local hospice.
We believe that the projects we sponsor target local needs and 
deliver the most positive impact, and ensure that our community 
work reflects our broader responsibilities as a Company. 
At Carr’s we believe a commitment to 
Corporate Responsibility will enhance the 
business and foster the right conditions 
for the growth of our business.
“
“
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 20
RepoR t of the DiRectoRs The Directors submit their report and the audited consolidated financial 
statements of the Group for the period ended 1 September 2012.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled 
in England and Wales whose shares are listed and traded on the 
London Stock Exchange. The Company’s registered number is 98221 
and the address of its registered office is Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle, 
CA3 9BA.
Principal activities, business review and future developments
The Group’s activities are Agriculture, Food and Engineering. A review 
of the business and future development of the Group is presented in 
the Chief Executive’s Review on pages 4 to 11 and in the Financial 
Review on pages 12 to 14. The principal activity of the Company is that 
of a holding company.
Results and dividends
The Group profit from continuing activities before taxation, was £13.1 
million (2011: £10.0 million). After taxation charge of £3.0 million (2011: 
£2.0 million), the profit for the period is £10.1 million (2011: £8.0 million).  
In the prior period, July 2011, the Group sold its fertiliser business and  
the profit from discontinued activities after taxation was £16.6 million. 
An interim dividend of 7.25p (2011: 6.5p) per ordinary share was paid 
on 25 May 2012. A second interim dividend of 7.25p (2011: 6.5p) per 
ordinary share was paid on 5 October 2012. The Directors recommend 
the payment of a final dividend for the period, which is not reflected 
in these accounts, of 14.5p (2011: 13.0p) per ordinary share which, 
together with the interim dividends, represents 29.0p per ordinary 
share, totalling £2.6 million (2011: 26.0p per ordinary share, totalling 
£2.3 million).
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend 
will be paid on 18 January 2013 to members on the register at the  
close of business on 21 December 2012. Shares will be ex-dividend  
on 19 December 2012.
Key performance indicators are presented in the Financial Review on 
pages 13 to 14.
Principal risk identification and management
The Group’s principal risks and uncertainties have been reviewed by 
the Board, and are shown in the Risk management review section on 
pages 16 to 17. The Risk management review section also provides 
information on the how the Board envisages the Group managing 
those risks.
Pensions
Estimates of the amount and timing of future funding obligations for  
the Group’s pension plans are based on various assumptions including, 
among other things, the actual and projected market performance 
of the pension plan assets, future long-term corporate bond yields, 
longevity of members and statutory requirements. On 6 September 
2011 the Group paid a further £1.0 million to reduce the Group’s 
pension fund deficit. In the previous period the Group paid £2.0 million 
into the pension fund from the proceeds of the sale of the Group’s 
fertiliser business on 13 July 2011. The total of £3.0 million is  
£1.4 million in excess of the statutory payment requirement.
The Group continually reviews this risk and takes action to mitigate 
where possible. In addition, while the Group is consulted by the 
trustees on the investment strategies of its pension plans, the Group 
has no direct control over these matters as the trustees are directly 
responsible for the strategy.
Details of the Group’s pension plans are in note 29 in the Notes to the 
Financial Statements.
Directors and their interests
The Directors of the Company who served during the period and up 
to the date of signing the financial statements are stated on page 15.  
Each of the current Directors served for the whole of the period under 
review. Lord Inglewood announced his intention to retire on 28 February 
2013, in an announcement on 23 October 2012. C N C Holmes will 
commence as Executive Chairman on 1 March 2013. Tim Davies has 
been appointed as Chief Executive Officer and will commence his 
appointment on 1 March 2013. Lord Inglewood will stand for re-election 
at the AGM until his retirement on 28 February 2013, in accordance 
with the Articles of Association. A R Heygate retires in accordance with 
best practice under the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, and 
offers himself for re-election. 
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, the 
Board confirm that it believes that A R Heygate is an asset to the 
Board as a result of his great depth of knowledge and expertise in the 
agriculture and the UK flour milling industry, which the Board view as 
invaluable. 
Biographical details of the Directors are shown below:
Non-executive Directors
Lord Inglewood was appointed as Chairman to the Board in 2005.  
He was a Conservative member of the European Parliament for ten 
years until his retirement in 2004, a Government Minister from 1995 
to 1997 and has been a member of the House of Lords since 1989. 
He is currently the Chair of the House of Lords Select Committee 
on Communications. He is also Chairman of CN Group Limited, the 
Carlisle based regional media company. Age 61.
Mr A R Heygate was appointed to the Board in 1991. He is the joint 
Managing Director of Heygate & Sons Ltd, the UK’s largest independent 
flour milling company. He is the longest standing non-executive Director 
of Carr’s and is Chairman of the Audit Committee. He is also a member 
of the executive of Camden BRI association and sits as Chairman on 
its Audit Committee. For almost 30 years he has been a member of the 
executive of the National Association of British & Irish Millers. Age 67.
Mr A G M Wannop was appointed to the Board in September 2005.  
He is the Senior Independent Director of the Board and the Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee. He has been the Chairman of both 
the County NFU and the MAFF northern regional advisory panel. He 
has served as a Director of The English Farming and Food Partnership, 
Rural Regeneration Cumbria, and Cumbria Vision. He is a fellow of the 
Royal Agricultural Society of England. Age 50.
Mr A R Heygate and Mr A G M Wannop have one year fixed term 
contracts which expire on 31 August 2013.
Executive Directors
Mr C N C Holmes was appointed to the Board in January 1992, and 
as CEO in September 1994. Previously he held senior management 
positions in the agricultural division of J Bibby & Sons. C N C Holmes 
has advised the Board that he will retire as Chief Executive Officer on 
28 February 2013, commencing as Executive Chairman on that date. 
Age 61.
Mr R C Wood was appointed to the Board as Finance Director and 
Company Secretary in January 1988 and is a member of the Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants. Mr R C Wood has advised the 
Board that he will retire as a Director on 30 April 2013 and retire as 
Company Secretary on 31 December 2012. Age 64. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
The Executive Directors have service contracts which provide for a 
rolling one year notice period. 
The Directors are entitled to be indemnified by the Company to the 
extent permitted by law and in the Company’s Articles of Association, 
in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution 
of their powers, duties and responsibilities. The Company has executed 
deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each Director in respect of 
liabilities which may attach to them in their capacity as Directors of 
the Company. The Company purchased and maintained Directors’ 
and Officers’ liability insurance throughout 2011/12, which has been 
renewed for 2012/13. Neither the indemnities nor the insurance provide 
cover in the event the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently. 
Employment policies and employees
The Group is committed to its employees and further details on the 
Group’s policies and commitment can be found in the Corporate 
Responsibility Report on page 18.
Acquisitions
On 25 May 2012 Carrs Engineering Limited acquired the entire issued 
share capital of Clive Walton Engineering Limited, a company engaged 
in machining parts for various industrial sectors. The cash consideration 
paid was £800,000. The Walton business complements Bendalls 
Engineering and was relocated to the Bendalls location in October.
On 20 July 2012 Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited acquired the 
trade and net assets of J L Marsden + Petsmart Limited t/a Laycocks, a 
supplier of agricultural products. The cash consideration paid on 
completion was £735,000, and a further £93,000 in November 2012. 
The acquired business extends our existing branch network in Y orkshire.
On 31 July 2012 the Company acquired the trade and certain assets 
and liabilities of Afgritech Limited. The cash consideration paid on 
completion was £409,000.
Political and charitable donations
During the period ended 1 September 2012 the Group contributed 
£29,386 (2011: £38,088) in the UK for charitable purposes. Further details 
have been included with the Corporate Responsibility statement on 
page 19. There were no political donations during the period 
(2011: £Nil).
Investment properties
The market value of the Group’s investment properties at 1 September 
2012 exceeded their net book amount by approximately £360,000. 
The previous valuation in July 2011 for the majority of the investment 
properties was undertaken by independent, professionally qualified 
valuers. The Directors have reviewed the valuations and are satisfied 
there are no significant changes to the assumptions and the valuations.
Payment of suppliers
Payment terms are agreed with each supplier and every endeavour is 
made to adhere to the agreed terms. The average credit terms for the 
Group as a whole, based on the year-end trade payables figure and 
a 365 day period, is 41 days (2011: 38 days). The Company has no 
outstanding trade payables at the end of the financial period 
(2011: £Nil).
Share capital
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into 
Ordinary Shares of £0.25 each.
The movement in the share capital during the period is detailed in 
note 30 to the financial statements.
At the last Annual General Meeting the Directors received authority from 
the shareholders to:
Allot Shares – this gives Directors the authority to allot authorised 
but unissued shares and maintains the flexibility in respect of the 
Company’s financing arrangements. The nominal value of ordinary 
shares which the Directors may allot in the period up to the next Annual 
General Meeting to be held on 8 January 2013, is limited to £731,235 
which is equal to 33 per cent of the nominal value of the issued share 
capital on 17 November 2011. The directors do not have any present 
intention of exercising this authority other than in connection with the 
issue of ordinary shares in respect of the Company’s share option 
plans. This authority will expire at the end of the Annual General 
Meeting.
Disapplication of rights of pre-emption – this disapplies rights of 
pre-emption on the allotment of shares by the Company and the 
sale by the Company of treasury shares. The authority will allow the 
Directors to allot equity securities for cash pursuant to the authority to 
allot shares mentioned above, and to sell treasury shares for cash, on 
a pro rata basis to existing shareholders (but subject to any exclusion 
or arrangements as the Directors consider necessary or expedient 
in relation to fractional entitlements, any legal, regulatory or practical 
problems or costs under the laws or regulations of any overseas 
territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange) 
and otherwise on a pro rata basis up to an aggregate nominal amount 
of £221,586 representing 10 per cent of the Company’s issued share 
capital as at 17 November 2011. This authority will expire at the end of 
the Annual General Meeting.
To buy own shares – this authority allows the Company to buy its own 
shares in the market, as permitted under the Articles of Association 
of the Company, up to a limit of 10 per cent of the Company’s issued 
share capital. The price to be paid for any share must not be less 
than 25p, being the nominal value of a share, and must not exceed 
105 percent of the average middle market quotations for the ordinary 
shares of the Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange 
Daily Official List for the 5 business days immediately preceding the 
day on which the ordinary shares are purchased. The Directors have no 
immediate plans to exercise the powers of the Company to purchase 
its own shares and have undertaken that the authority would only be 
exercised if the Directors were satisfied that a purchase would result 
in an increase in expected earnings per share and was in the best 
interests of the Company at the time. This authority will expire at the 
end of the Annual General Meeting. The Directors would consider 
holding any of its own shares that it purchases pursuant to this 
authority as treasury shares.
The interests of the Directors, as defined by the Companies Act 2006, 
in the ordinary shares of the Company, other than in respect of options 
to acquire ordinary shares (which are detailed in the analysis of options 
included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 30), are 
as follows:
 on 1 September 2012 on 3 September 2011
 Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares
C N C Holmes 127,500 127,500
R C Wood 96,430 98,230
A R Heygate 37,225 37,225
W R Inglewood 4,410 4,410
A G M Wannop 2,261 2,261
All the above interests are beneficial. There have been no other 
changes to the above interests in the period from 1 September 2012 to 
5 November 2012. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 22
RepoR t of the DiRectoRs continued
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
In a general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of the 
articles of association and to any special rights or restrictions as to 
voting attached to any class of shares in the Company (of which there 
are none), the holders of the Ordinary Shares are entitled to one vote 
in a poll for every Ordinary Share held. No member shall be entitled to 
vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares 
held if any call or other sum then payable in respect of that share 
remains unpaid. Currently all issued shares are fully paid.
Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the 
resolutions, to be considered at the Annual General Meeting to be held 
on 8 January 2013, are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company 
may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the 
members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended 
by the Board. The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any 
fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, 
in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment. All dividends shall be 
apportioned and paid pro rata according to the amounts paid up on 
the shares.
Major shareholders
The Company has been informed of the following interests at 
5 November 2012 in the 8,876,356 ordinary shares of the 
Company, as required by the Companies Act 2006:
 Number Percentage of 
 of shares Issued share capital 
Heygate & Sons Limited* 1,265,287 14.3%
T W G Charlton 575,000 6.5%
Rathbone Nominees Limited 453,225 5.1%
Europe Nominees Limited 378,779 4.3%
HSBC Global Custody 
 Nominee (UK) Limited 264,094 3.0%
  
* A R Heygate is a director of Heygate & Sons Limited. 
Change of control
There are no agreements that the Company considers significant and 
to which the Company is party that would take effect, alter or terminate 
upon change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, other 
than the following:
•	 The 	 Company 	 is 	 party 	 to 	 a 	 number 	 of 	 banking 	 agr eements 	 which	
upon a change of control of the Company are terminable by the 
bank immediately.
Annual General Meeting and Special Business to be transacted 
at the Annual General Meeting
The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting appears on page 90 
and includes the following items of Special Business:
(i) Resolution 8: Authority to allot shares
 Under the Companies Act 2006, the Directors of a public company 
are unable to allot shares without the authority of the Shareholders 
in a general meeting. Resolution 8 authorises the Directors to allot 
shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£732,299. This represents 2,929,197 ordinary shares of 25p each 
in the capital of the Company, which is approximately 33 per cent 
of the Company’s issued share capital (excluding treasury shares) 
as at 5 November 2012 (being the last practicable date before the 
printing of this document).
 As at 5 November 2012 (being the last practicable date before the 
printing of this document), no shares in the Company were held as 
treasury shares.
 This authority will last until the end of the next Annual General 
Meeting of the Company or 31 March 2014 if earlier. The Directors 
do not have any present intention of exercising this authority except 
in connection with the issue of ordinary shares in respect of the 
Company’s share option plans.
 This resolution complies with guidelines issued by investor bodies 
and, in accordance with normal practice, the Directors will seek 
annual renewal of this authority.
 The Association of British Insurers’ guidance on the approval 
of allotments of shares states that, in addition to request for 
authorisation to allot new shares in an amount up to one-third of 
the existing issued share capital of a company, it would regard as 
routine requests to authorise the allotment of a further one-third 
in connection with a rights issue. Resolution 8 is the usual general 
authority to allot shares up to approximately 33 per cent of the 
Company’s issued share capital (which as in previous years is 
accompanied by a disapplication of Shareholders pre-emption 
rights resolution in resolution 9).
(ii) Resolution 9: Disapplication of pre-emption rights
 If equity securities are to be allotted for cash, the Companies Act 
2006 (“the Act”) requires that those equity securities and treasury 
shares are offered first to existing Shareholders on a pro rata basis, 
i.e. in proportion to the number of equity securities they each hold 
at that time. Equity securities include the Company’s ordinary 
shares.
 There may be circumstances, however, when it is in the interests 
of the Company to be able to allot equity securities for cash and to 
sell treasury shares for cash without first offering them to existing 
Shareholders.
 Resolution 9 gives the Directors power to allot equity securities 
for cash (pursuant to the authority obtained in resolution 8) and 
to sell treasury shares for cash as if the pre-emption provisions of 
section 561(1) of the Act do not apply. Other than in connection 
with a rights issue or other similar issue, the power contained in 
this resolution will be limited to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£110,954. This represents 443,818 ordinary shares of 25p each in 
the capital of the Company, which is approximately 5 per cent of 
the Company’s issued share capital as at 5 November 2012 (being 
the latest practicable date before the printing of this document).
 This power will last until the end of the next Annual General 
Meeting of the Company or 31 March 2014 if earlier. This resolution 
complies with guidelines issued by investor bodies and, in 
accordance with normal practice, the Directors will seek annual 
renewal of this power.
 The Company intends to comply with the principle on disapplying 
pre-emption rights set out by the Pre-Emption Group that (in the 
absence of suitable advance consultation and explanation or the 
matter having been specifically highlighted at the time at which the 
request for disapplication was made) a company should not issue 
more than 7.5 per cent of its ordinary share capital for cash other 
than to existing Shareholders in any rolling three year period. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
(iii) Resolution 10: Authority to buy own ordinary shares
 Resolution 10 authorises the Company to buy its own ordinary 
shares in the market. 
 This authority allows the Company to purchase a maximum of 
887,636 ordinary shares (which is approximately 10 per cent of the 
company’s issued share capital as at 5 November 2012.
 The price to be paid for any shares must not be less than 25p, 
being the nominal value of a share, and must not exceed 105 per 
cent of the average middle market quotations for the ordinary 
shares of the Company as derived from the London Stock 
Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 business days immediately 
preceding the day on which the ordinary shares are contracted to 
be purchased.
 This authority will expire on the earlier of the date which is 
 18 months after the passing of the resolution or the conclusion  
of the next Annual General Meeting to be held after the date of  
this Annual General Meeting. 
 As at 5 November 2012 (the latest practicable date before the 
printing of this document) options over 223,150 ordinary shares in 
the Company were outstanding under the Company’s employee 
share schemes, representing 2.5 per cent of the Company’s issued 
share capital at that date. If the existing authority to purchase 
shares granted at the Company’s last annual general meeting and 
the proposed authority now being sought were to be exercised in 
full, such options would represent 2.8 per cent of the Company’s 
issued share capital (excluding treasury shares) at 5 November 2012.
 Shares will only be repurchased if the Directors consider such 
purchases to be in the best interests of Shareholders generally and 
that they can be expected to result in an increase in earnings per 
share. The authority will only be used after careful consideration, 
taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other 
investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the 
overall financial position of the Company. Shares held as treasury 
shares will not automatically be cancelled and will not be taken into 
account in future calculations of earnings per share (unless they are 
subsequently resold or transferred out of treasury).
(iv) Resolution 11: Notice of general meetings
 Under the Act the notice period required for general meetings of the 
Company is 21 clear days unless Shareholders approve a shorter 
notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days. 
(Annual General Meetings will continue to be held on at least 
 21 clear days’ notice).
 In order to call general meetings on less than 21 clear days’ notice, 
the Company must make a means of electronic voting available to 
all Shareholders for that meeting. This requirement will be satisfied 
if the Company offers a facility allowing Shareholders to appoint a 
proxy by means of a website.
(v) Resolution 12: New long term incentive plan
 At its Annual General Meeting in January 2006, Carr’s Milling 
Industries PLC (the “Company”) established (with shareholder 
approval) the Carr’s Milling Industries Approved Executive Share 
Option Scheme 2006 (the “Approved Scheme”), the Carr’s Milling 
Industries Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006 (the 
“Unapproved Scheme”) and the Carr’s Milling Industries Deferred 
Bonus Scheme 2006 (the “Deferred Bonus Scheme”) (together, the 
“2006 Schemes”). The 2006 Schemes are discretionary schemes, 
 enabling the grant of awards, over ordinary shares in the Company 
(“Shares”) to selected employees of the Carr’s Milling Industries 
group (the “Group”), with flexibility for the grant of tax-favoured 
options, to the extent permissible, under the Approved Scheme. 
At the same time, the Company also established (again with 
shareholder approval) the Carr’s Milling Industries Sharesave 
Scheme 2006 (the “Sharesave Scheme”), an all-employee scheme, 
which also enables the grant of tax-favoured options to eligible 
employees of the Group. 
 The Remuneration Committee of the board of directors of the 
Company (the “Committee”) has reviewed the overall remuneration 
structure for the Company’s executive directors and has concluded 
that it would be appropriate, to achieve a flexible and balanced 
remuneration package, for the Company to adopt the LTIP . If 
approved by shareholders, it is intended that going forwards 
participants in the LTIP will not be granted awards under either of 
the Approved Scheme or the Unapproved Scheme or Deferred 
Bonus Scheme.
 Under the proposed LTIP , the Committee may determine, in 
its discretion, those employees or executive directors who will 
be granted rights to acquire Shares for no cost, subject to the 
achievement of suitably stretching and measurable performance 
targets. For initial awards under the LTIP , these targets will be set by 
reference to the Company’s published Earnings per Share over the 
period of 3 financial years. 
 The Committee is of the view that the LTIP is the most appropriate 
way going forward for the Company to offer incentivisation and 
recognition for good performance through share awards. The 
Committee considers that the rules of the LTIP reflect current best 
practice. 
 A copy of the Carr’s Milling Industries Long Term Incentive Plan 
2013 will be available for inspection at the offices of Pinsent 
Masons LLP , 30 Crown Place, London EC2A 4ES during normal 
business hours from the date of this notice until the conclusion of 
the meeting and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at 
least 15 minutes before and during the meeting.
Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Responsibility for preparing financial statements
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for 
each financial period. Under that law the Directors have prepared the 
Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union. Under company law the Directors must not approve 
the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and 
of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing those 
financial statements, the Directors are required to:
•	 select 	 suitable 	 accounting 	 policies 	 and 	 then 	 apply 	 them	
consistently;
•	 make 	 judgements 	 and 	 accounting 	 estimates 	 that 	 ar e 	 r easonable	
and prudent;
•	 state 	 whether 	 applicable 	 IFRSs 	 as 	 adopted 	 by 	 the 	 Eur opean 	 Union	
have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the financial statements;
•	 pr epar e 	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 on 	 the 	 going 	 concern 	 basis, 	 unless	
it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in 
business. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 24
RepoR t of the DiRectoRs continued
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and of the Group and enable them to ensure that 
the financial statements and Directors’ Remuneration Report comply 
with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence 
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving 
the Directors’ Report are listed on page 15. Having made enquiries 
of fellow Directors each of these Directors, at the date of this report, 
confirms that:
•	 he 	 is 	 awar e 	 ther e 	 is 	 no 	 r elevant 	 audit 	 information 	 of 	 which 	 the	
Company’s auditors are unaware; and 
•	 he 	 has 	 taken 	 all 	 the 	 steps 	 that 	 he 	 ought 	 to 	 have 	 taken 	 as 	 a 	 Dir ector	
in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that 
information.
Responsibility Statement
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 15 
confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
•	 the 	 Gr oup 	 financial 	 statements, 	 which 	 have 	 been 	 pr epar ed 	 in	
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the 
Group; 
•	 the 	 Chief 	 Executive’ s 	 Review 	 includes 	 a 	 fair 	 r eview 	 of 	 the	
development and performance of the business and the position of 
the Group; and
•	 the 	 Risk 	 management 	 r eview 	 pr ovides 	 a 	 description 	 of 	 the 	 principal	
risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
By Order of the Board
Ronald C Wood
Company Secretary
16 November 2012 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
coRpoR ate GoveRnance
Statement by the Directors on compliance with the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2010.
Principles of good governance
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance. 
The adoption and maintenance of good governance is the responsibility 
of the Board as a whole. This report, together with the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 30, describes how the Board 
applies the principles of good governance and best practice as set out 
in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 (the “Code”). A statement 
of compliance can be found at the end of this report.
The Board
The Board is responsible for providing entrepreneurial leadership, whilst 
working within a prudent and effective framework of control, which 
balances and manages risk. The Board establishes the Group’s values 
and standards and ensures that its obligations to shareholders and 
stakeholders are met. It sets the Group’s objectives and ensures that 
the Group has the necessary personnel and finances available to meet 
those objectives. 
The Board meets eleven times throughout the period. To enable the 
Directors of the Board to carry out their responsibilities all Directors 
have full and timely access to all relevant information. The Board has 
a schedule of matters for its discussion. The schedule is reviewed 
periodically and includes but is not limited to the following:
•	 appr oval 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 annual 	 Business 	 Plan;
•	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 strategy;
•	 acquisitions, 	 disposals 	 and 	 capital 	 expenditur e 	 pr ojects 	 above	
certain thresholds;
•	 all 	 guarantees;
•	 tr easury 	 policies;
•	 the 	 financial 	 statements;
•	 the 	 Company’ s 	 dividend 	 policy;
•	 transactions 	 involving 	 the 	 issue 	 or 	 pur chase 	 of 	 Company 	 shar es;
•	 borr owing 	 powers;
•	 appointments 	 to 	 the 	 Boar d;
•	 alterations 	 to 	 the 	 Memorandum 	 and 	 Articles 	 of 	 Association;
•	 legal 	 actions 	 br ought 	 by 	 or 	 against 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 above 	 certain	
thresholds; and
•	 the 	 scope 	 of 	 delegations 	 to 	 Boar d 	 committees, 	 subsidiary 	 boar ds	
and executive management of the Group.
A schedule of matters is available on the Company’s website.  
The Board has delegated authority to the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees to carry out certain tasks as defined in their written terms 
of reference approved by the Board; these are also available on the 
Company website.
Members
Throughout the period the Board consisted of a non-executive 
Chairman, two executive Directors and two other non-executive 
Directors. W R Inglewood is considered independent and his 
independence was assessed when he was appointed as non-executive 
Chairman. A R Heygate is a non-executive Director and the Board 
considers him to be independent although the Code questions his 
independence due to his long association with the Company and 
the fact that he represents a significant shareholder. The Board 
believes that he acts in the best interests of the Company and that his 
knowledge and experience are an asset to the Company. In addition, it 
is felt that his holding of shares in the Company aligns his interests with 
those of the shareholders. 
A G M Wannop is the Senior Independent non-executive Director.  
The Code recommends that the Board of Directors of a UK public 
company should include a balance of executive and non-executive 
Directors (including independent non-executives) such that no 
individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Board’s 
decision-making. The Board is confident that it meets the requirements 
of the Code.
Directors’ biographies are shown on page 20. The formal terms of 
reference for the main Board Committees together with the terms and 
conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are reviewed 
annually and are available for inspection at the Company’s Registered 
Office and at the Annual General Meeting.
New Board structure
On 6 July 2012 it was announced that R C Wood will retire as Finance 
Director on 30 April 2013, and that Neil Austin will commence working 
for the Company on 1 January 2013, prior to taking over as Finance 
Director on 1 May 2013. It was also announced that R C Wood  
will retire as Company Secretary on 31 December 2012, and that  
Katie Sinclair, the existing Assistant Company Secretary and Legal 
Counsel will take over as Company Secretary on 1 January 2013.
On 23 October 2012 it was announced that Lord Inglewood will retire 
on 28 February 2013. It was also announced that C N C Holmes will  
retire as Chief Executive Officer and commence as Executive Chairman 
effective from 1 March 2013. Tim Davies has been appointed as  
Chief Executive Officer from 1 March 2013.
The Board has taken the decision to appoint C N C Holmes as 
Chairman to ensure the Group’s on-going success. The Board believes 
that the new structure will ensure continuity of strategy and Company 
knowledge at a time when both C N C Holmes and R C Wood retire 
from their current roles. Between them they have 47 years’ experience 
in the Group, and the desire is that this knowledge is not lost. It is 
important that the focus for everyone is on the business performance. 
C N C Holmes will cease as Executive Chairman and become 
non-executive Chairman by the middle of 2013, once Tim Davies has 
had the opportunity to become familiar with the very diverse nature of 
the Group.
The Board will consider measures next period to mitigate any 
governance concerns, and these will be reported next period once 
the Board makes its decision.
The Board did consult with major shareholders regarding its decision 
and received unanimous agreement with the decision.
Elections
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that one third of the 
Directors retire by rotation each year at the Annual General Meeting 
which is in compliance with the Code. As a result of A R Heygate’s long 
association with the Group the Board have decided that it would be 
prudent to require him to retire annually to ensure that the shareholders 
are able to review his continued membership of the Board. In addition, 
Lord Inglewood will retire by rotation, whose appointment will be on a 
fixed term until 28 February 2013.
Attendance and Agenda
In advance of all Board meetings the Directors are supplied with 
detailed and comprehensive papers covering the Group’s operating 
functions. Members of the executive management team attend and 
make presentations as appropriate at meetings of the Board. The 
Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for the timeliness  
and quality of information. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 26
coRpoR ate GoveRnance
continued
Details of the number of meetings of, and members’ attendance at, the 
Board, Audit and Remuneration Committees during the period are set 
out in the table below:
  Audit Remuneration
 Board Committee Committee
No. of meetings 11 2 2
   
W R Inglewood 11 2 2
C N C Holmes 11 — —
R C Wood 10 — —
A R Heygate 10 2 2
A G M Wannop 11 2 2
The chart below shows the approximate time the Board has spent 
discussing agenda items during the period, separated into broad 
categories:
In addition to the regular scheduled meetings throughout the period, 
unscheduled supplementary meetings may also take place as and 
when necessary, although during this financial period there has been 
no reason to hold an unscheduled meeting. The Board meetings are 
structured to allow open discussion and all Directors participate in 
discussing strategy, financial performance and risk management.
Directors who are unable to attend a particular meeting receive relevant 
briefing papers and are given the opportunity to discuss any issues with 
the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the Group Finance Director.
Support 
Directors can obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense in performance of their duties as Directors. None of the 
Directors obtained independent professional advice in the period under 
review. All Directors have access to the advice and the services of 
the Company Secretary. In addition to these formal roles, the Non-
executive Directors have access to senior management of the business 
either by telephone or via involvement at informal meetings.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separated 
and their responsibilities are clearly established, set out in writing and 
agreed by the Board. The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and 
workings of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness, while the Chief 
Executive Officer is responsible for running the business and implementing 
strategy and policy.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
As permitted under the Companies Act 2006, the Company’s Articles 
of Association permit Directors to authorise conflicts of interest and 
the Board has a policy and procedures for managing and, where 
appropriate, authorising actual or potential conflicts of interest. Under 
those procedures, Directors are required to declare all directorships or 
other appointments to organisations that are not part of the Group and 
which could result in actual or potential conflicts of interest, as well as 
other situations which could result in a potential conflict of interest. 
The Board is required to review Directors’ actual or potential conflicts 
of interest at least annually. Directors are required to disclose proposed 
new appointments to the Chairman before taking them on, to ensure 
that any potential conflicts of interest can be identified and addressed 
appropriately. Any potential conflicts of interest in relation to proposed 
directors are considered by the Board prior to their appointment. In this 
financial period there have been no declared conflicts of interest.
Board Committees
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee currently comprises the three non-executive 
Directors, A R Heygate (Chairman), W R Inglewood and A G M Wannop. 
The Board considers that the Company meets the main requirements of 
the Code for a company of Carr’s size.
The Board is responsible for assessing the Group’s internal financial 
controls and meeting with the external auditors as appropriate. 
The external auditors have the opportunity for direct access to 
the Committee without the executive Directors being present. The 
Committee meets at least two times a year and such meetings involve 
a review of the Group’s interim and full year financial statements. 
Under its terms of reference, the Committee is required amongst other 
things, to:
•	 monitor 	 the 	 integrity 	 of 	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup;	
•	 r eview , 	 understand 	 and 	 evaluate 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 internal 	 financial 	 risk,	
and other internal controls and their associated systems; 
•	 oversee 	 the 	 r elationship 	 with 	 the 	 external 	 auditors, 	 making	
recommendations to the Board in relation to their appointment, 
remuneration and terms of engagement; and 
•	 monitor 	 and 	 r eview 	 the 	 external 	 auditors’ 	 independence, 	 objectivity	
and effectiveness and to approve the policy on the engagement of 
the external auditors to supply non-audit services.
During the year and up to the date of this Annual Report the 
Committee has:
•	 r eviewed 	 the 	 Committee’ s 	 terms 	 of 	 r efer ence 	 and 	 its 	 ef fectiveness;	
•	 agr eed 	 the 	 terms 	 of 	 engagement, 	 the 	 fees, 	 ar eas 	 of 	 r esponsibility	
and scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the external 
auditors; 
•	 r eviewed 	 the 	 annual 	 and 	 interim 	 financial 	 statements. 	 In 	 doing 	 so	
the Committee reviewed significant accounting policies, financial 
reporting issues and judgements, together with the reports received 
from the external auditors on their audits; 
•	 r eviewed 	 and 	 appr oved 	 the 	 scope 	 of 	 non-audit 	 services 	 pr ovided	
by the auditors to ensure that there was no impairment of 
independence and objectivity, and subsequently monitored the 
non-audit work performed to ensure it was within policy guidelines; 
and
•	 r eviewed 	 the 	 policy 	 and 	 pr ocess 	 enabling 	 employees 	 within	
the Group to make disclosures about suspected financial and 
operational improprieties.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP be re-appointed as the Company’s 
auditors.
As a result of its work during the year, the Committee has concluded 
that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has 
ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the Annual General 
Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised 
on the Committee’s activities.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee currently comprises A G M Wannop 
(Chairman), W R Inglewood and A R Heygate. It is a requirement of the 
Code that the Committee should, in the case of smaller companies, 
consist of at least two members who are considered by the Code to 
be independent. The Company has complied with this. C N C Holmes, 
Chief Executive Officer, attends meetings of the Committee by invitation 
and in an advisory capacity. No Director attends any part of a meeting 
at which his own remuneration is discussed. The Chairman and the 
executive Directors determine the remuneration of the other non-
executive Directors. The remuneration of the Chairman is determined 
by the Board.
Governance  7%
Strategy  45%
Finance/risk  15%
Capex  18%
Operations  15% Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
The Committee recommends to the Board the policy for executive 
remuneration and determines, on behalf of the Board, the other terms 
and conditions of service for each executive Director. It determines 
appropriate performance conditions for the annual cash bonus and 
deferred bonus scheme and approves awards and the issue of 
options in accordance with the terms of those schemes. The executive 
Directors’ contract notice periods are one year. The Committee has 
access to advice from the Company Secretary and to detailed analysis 
of executive remuneration in comparable companies. Details of the 
Committee’s current remuneration policies are given in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 30.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee attends the Annual 
General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might 
be raised on the Committee’s activities.
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of good communications with 
all shareholders. The Group maintains dialogue with institutional 
shareholders and analysts, and general presentations are made when 
financial results are announced. Shareholders have access to the 
Company’s website at www.carrs-milling.com.
We engage with our shareholders through our regular communications. 
We announce our financial results on a six month basis with all 
shareholders receiving a half year report. In addition, we produce 
interim management statements. All reports and statements are made 
available on our website.
The Annual General Meeting is the principal forum for all the Directors 
to engage in dialogue with private investors. All shareholders are given 
the opportunity to raise questions at the meeting. The Group aims 
to send notices of Annual General Meetings to shareholders at least 
20 working days before the meeting, as required by the Code, and it 
is the Company’s practice to indicate the proxy voting results on all 
resolutions at the meetings.
Going concern
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis, 
having satisfied themselves from a review of internal budgets and 
forecasts and current bank facilities that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Internal control
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Group’s 
systems of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, including: 
financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, 
which safeguard the shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets. 
Such a system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The Board of Directors is not aware of any significant losses caused by 
breaches of internal control in the period.
The Group operates within a clearly defined organisational structure 
with established responsibilities, authorities and reporting lines to the 
Board. The organisational structure has been designed in order to plan, 
execute, monitor and control the Group’s objectives effectively and 
to ensure that internal control becomes embedded in the operations. 
The Board confirms that the key on-going processes and features of 
the Group’s internal risk based control system, which accord with the 
Turnbull guidance, have been fully operative throughout the year and 
up to the date of the Annual Report being approved. These include: 
a process to identify and evaluate business risk; a strong control 
environment; an information and communication process; a monitoring 
system and a regular Board review for effectiveness. The Group 
Finance Director is responsible for overseeing the Group’s internal 
controls. 
The Group does not have an internal audit function as the Board 
consider that the Group has not yet reached a size where a separate 
internal audit function would be an appropriate or cost effective method 
of ensuring compliance with Group policies, and therefore does not 
currently propose to introduce a Group internal audit function. This 
area will be kept under review as part of the Board’s assessment of the 
Group’s systems of internal control.
The management of the Group’s businesses identified the key business 
risks within their operations, considered the financial implications 
and assessed the effectiveness of the control processes in place to 
mitigate these risks. The Board reviewed a summary of the findings and 
this, along with direct involvement in the strategies of the businesses, 
investment appraisal and budgeting process, enabled the Board to 
report on the effectiveness of internal control. A summary of the key 
risks to the business is set out at pages 16 and 17.
Compliance with the Code
The Directors consider that the Company has, during the period ended 
1 September 2012, complied with the requirements of the Code other 
than as set out below:
•	 the 	 non-executive 	 Dir ector , 	 A 	 R 	 Heygate, 	 is 	 deemed 	 to 	 be	
independent notwithstanding his long association with the 
Company and the fact that he represents a significant shareholder 
(B.1.1);
•	 the 	 members 	 of 	 the 	 Audit 	 Committee 	 ar e 	 deemed 	 not 	 to 	 have	
recent and relevant financial experience in accordance with 
the Code (C.3.1). However, the Board believes their business 
knowledge and experience is sufficient to satisfy the Committee’s 
obligations;
•	 the 	 Boar d 	 did 	 not 	 have 	 in 	 place 	 during 	 the 	 period 	 a 	 formal 	 and	
rigorous process of evaluation of its own performance and that 
of its committees (B.6.). Rigorous but informal evaluation has 
historically been carried out by the Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer, an evaluation of the performance of the individual Directors 
has also been carried out by the Remuneration Committee;
•	 the 	 non-executive 	 Dir ectors 	 do 	 not 	 meet 	 without 	 the 	 Chairman 	 to	
evaluate his performance, (A.4.2) as his performance is reviewed 
with the Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director;
•	 ther e 	 is 	 no 	 separate 	 Nominations 	 Committee 	 (B.2.1) 	 to 	 assess 	 and	
recommend new Directors. Instead the Board as a whole considers 
these areas following initial scrutiny and recommendations by the 
Chief Executive Officer and Chairman;
•	 the 	 Chairman 	 does 	 not 	 discuss 	 governance 	 or 	 strategy 	 with 	 major	
shareholders (E.1.1); and
•	 the 	 Senior 	 Independent 	 Dir ector 	 (A 	 G 	 M 	 W annop) 	 does 	 not 	 meet	
with major shareholders to discuss their issues/concerns, other 
than at the Annual General Meeting (E.1.1). The Chief Executive 
Officer and the Group Finance Director have contact with major 
shareholders and are able to answer any of their concerns and 
present any issues to the Board for it to consider. 
By order of the Board
Ronald C Wood
Company Secretary
Carlisle
CA3 9BA
16 November 2012 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 28
DiRectoRs’ RemuneR ation RepoR t Information not subject to audit.
Remuneration Committee
All matters relating to executive remuneration are determined by the 
Remuneration Committee, a sub-committee of the Board of Directors. 
The Remuneration Committee comprises A G M Wannop (Chairman), 
A R Heygate and Lord Inglewood. The Committee may invite the 
Chief Executive Officer to participate in some of its discussions when 
necessary. The Committee’s Terms of Reference are available from the 
Company’s website. The Committee’s main responsibility is determining 
the terms and conditions of employment of executive Directors. It is 
also responsible for considering management recommendations for 
remuneration and employment terms of the Company’s senior staff, 
including incentive arrangements for bonus payments and the grant of 
share options. In addition, Pinsent Masons continue to give advice to 
the Remuneration Committee on share option awards and other benefit 
schemes.
The remuneration of the non-executive Directors is determined by 
the Chairman and the executive Directors and reflects the time, 
commitment and responsibility of their roles. No Director attends any 
part of a meeting at which his own remuneration is discussed.
Remuneration policy
The Group’s policy is that the overall remuneration package offered 
should be sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate high 
quality executives and to align the rewards of the executives with 
the progress of the Group whilst giving consideration to salary levels 
in similar sized quoted companies in the sector. The remuneration 
package is in two parts: a non-performance part represented by 
basic salary (including benefits); and a significant performance related 
element in the form of a profit related bonus. The details of individual 
components of the remuneration package and service contracts are set 
out below:
Remuneration package
The non-performance related elements of remuneration which comprise 
basic salary, car benefit, private healthcare and death in service cover 
are reviewed annually and are effective from 1 September.
The bonus scheme in operation is based on the achievement of 
divisional company targets and the Group profit targets. The targets are 
set having regard to the Group’s budget, historical performance and 
market outlook for the year. The bonus relates to the achievement of 
a target performance based on a percentage of the results in excess 
of an annual target. The performance is based solely on the Group’s 
profit before tax, with a sliding scale of targets set around budget 
performance. The total bonus is capped at 100 per cent of basic 
salary. Non-executive Directors do not participate in the Group’s bonus 
scheme. 
Service contracts
Each of the executive Directors has a permanent contract with a one 
year notice period. The most recent executed contracts for the 
executive Directors were dated 10 June 2002 and as amended on 
8 September 2011. Both C N C Holmes and R C Wood receive a 
pension from the Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 and 
they would be entitled to loss of salary and benefits in the event of 
termination of employment. The contracts of non-executive Directors 
of the Company are fixed for one year and the most recent executed 
contracts for A R Heygate and A G M Wannop were 10 September 
2012. Lord Inglewood has a fixed term contract ending on 28 February 
2013 at which time he will resign as a Director of the Company.
Share Options and Long Term Incentive Plan
The basic salary and a bonus scheme are intended as the most 
significant part of Directors’ Remuneration; in addition, executive share 
options can be proposed by the Remuneration Committee and are 
granted periodically to promote the involvement of senior management 
in the longer term success of the Group. Options can only be exercised 
if certain performance criteria are achieved by the Group. There are no 
vested executive share options applicable to the executive Directors.
Executive Directors may also apply for Save As You Earn (SAYE) 
options on the same terms as all other employees.
In February 2006, the Group established an HMRC Approved 
Deferred Bonus Scheme. In the year ended 1 September 2012, the 
Remuneration Committee declined to offer the two executive Directors 
deferred bonus shares (2011: Nil). There are no shares vesting in this 
scheme.
These additional parts to a remuneration package are being reviewed 
as a result of the impending Board changes, as it is appreciated by 
the Remuneration Committee that the remuneration package for the 
newly appointed Finance Director and Chief Executive Officer must 
encourage their commitment to developing the Group.
Pay and conditions across the Group
The following are the key aspects of how pay and employment 
conditions across the Group are taken into account when setting the 
remuneration of employees including the executive Directors.
•	 All 	 employees, 	 including 	 Dir ectors, 	 ar e 	 paid 	 by 	 r efer ence 	 to 	 the	
market rate.
•	 Performance 	 is 	 measur ed 	 and 	 r ewar ded 	 thr ough 	 a 	 number 	 of	
performance related bonus schemes across the Group including 
share options for executive Directors and senior executives.
•	 Performance 	 measur es 	 ar e 	 cascaded 	 down 	 thr ough 	 the	
organisation.
•	 The 	 Gr oup 	 of fers 	 employment 	 conditions 	 that 	 ar e 	 commensurate	
with a small size quoted company, including high standards of 
health and safety and equal opportunities.
•	 The 	 Gr oup 	 operates 	 SA YE 	 shar e 	 schemes 	 which 	 ar e 	 open 	 to 	 all	
eligible employees including executive Directors.
Pensions
The two executive Directors receive a pension from the defined benefit 
section of the Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 and as 
such neither the company nor the executive Directors contribute to 
the scheme. Pensions in payment are guaranteed to be increased 
annually by 5 per cent or the increase in the Retail Price Index (RPI) if 
less. For death after retirement a spouse’s pension of two-thirds of the 
member’s pension is payable plus the balance of a five year guarantee 
if applicable. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Performance Graph
The following graph illustrates the 
Company’s total shareholder return 
performance since 31 August 2007 
relative to the FTSE All-share index.  
The Company considers that the 
FTSE All-share index to be the most 
appropriate comparator group as 
it is a broad index and reflects the 
Company’s broad range of activities.
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
FTSE All-Share Price Index
Source: Thomson Datastream
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
250
200
150
100
50
0
Information subject to audit
The remuneration of the Directors for the period was as follows:
   2012 2011
   £’000 £’000
Salary and fees   656 873
Bonuses   528 508
Benefits   20 26
   1,204 1,407
Pension contribution         —   30
   1,204 1,437
Aggregate notional gains by Directors on exercise of options      —   32
Individual Directors’ remuneration, including pension contributions:
Directors’ Remuneration
         
 Fees and   2012 2011 2012 2011 
 Basic Annual  Total Total Pension Pension
 Salary Bonus Benefits Emoluments Emoluments Contributions Contributions
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
  Executive Directors
  C N C Holmes 281 281   11       573   799          —    30 
  R C Wood 247 247     9      503    484           —       —  
   
  Non-executive directors
  W R Inglewood   60     —      —        60           58          —        —  
  A R Heygate   34     —      —        34          33          —         —  
  A G M Wannop   34     —      —        34        33         —               — 
 656 528   20 1,204            1,407        —          30
In 2011, the basic salary of C N C Holmes included an additional sum representing 93% of his gross basic salary to normal retirement age at 
5 September 2011. This additional sum represented compensation for the reduction in pension entitlement. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 30
DiRectoRs’ RemuneR ation RepoR t continued
Executive Directors’ Pension Information
  Accrued entitlement at: Transfer value of accrued benefit at:
   1 September  3 September 1 September 3 September
   2012 2011 2012 2011
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
C N C Holmes  90 86 2,231 1,988
R C Wood  151 144 3,388 3,070
As both C N C Holmes and R C Wood are taking their pension no further disclosure is necessary.
Savings Related Share Option Scheme
  
     Weighted
  At Granted At average 
  3 September in the 1 September exercise Range of
  2011 period 2012 price exercise
  Number Number Number p dates
C N C Holmes 131 525 656 572 1 June 2014
      1 January 2014
R C Wood 131 525 656 572 1 May 2013
      1 November 2013
R C Wood has announced he will retire from the Company at 30 April 2013 and the range of exercise dates are six months from that date.
The executive Directors participate, along with other employees of the Group, in the current SAYE scheme, which by its nature does not have  
performance conditions.
On behalf of the Board
A G M Wannop
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
16 November 2012 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
inDepenDent a uDitoRs’ RepoR t to the membeRs  
of c aRR’s millinG inDustRies plc
We have audited the financial statements of Carr’s Milling Industries 
PLC for the period ended 1 September 2012 which comprise the 
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Company 
Statements of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and 
Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity, the Company Statement of Changes in Equity, the 
Consolidated and Company Statement of Cash Flows, the principal 
accounting policies and the related notes. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law 
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union and, as regards the parent Company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on pages 23 to 24, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for 
the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of 
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do 
not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or 
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our 
prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the Group’s and the parent Company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness 
of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the 
overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read 
all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report 
and accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for 
our report.
 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
•	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 give 	 a 	 true 	 and 	 fair 	 view 	 of 	 the 	 state 	 of 	 the	
Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at 1 September 
2012 and of the Group’s profit and Group’s and parent Company’s 
cash flows for the period then ended;
•	 the 	 Group 	 financial 	 statements 	 have 	 been 	 properly 	 prepared 	 in	
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
•	 the 	 parent 	 Company 	 financial 	 statements 	 have 	 been 	 properly	
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
•	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 have 	 been 	 prepared 	 in 	 accordance 	 with	
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
•	 the 	 part 	 of 	 the 	 Directors’ 	 Remuneration 	 Report 	 to 	 be 	 audited 	 has	
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006;
•	 the 	 information 	 given 	 in 	 the 	 Report 	 of 	 the 	 Directors 	 for 	 the	
financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements; and
•	 the 	 information 	 given 	 in 	 the 	 Corporate 	 Governance 	 Statement	
set out on pages 25 to 27 with respect to internal control and 
risk management systems and about share capital structures is 
consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion: 
•	 adequate 	 accounting 	 records 	 have 	 not 	 been 	 kept 	 by 	 the 	 parent	
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
•	 the 	 parent 	 Company 	 financial 	 statements 	 and 	 the 	 part 	 of 	 the	
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or 
•	 certain 	 disclosures 	 of 	 Directors’ 	 remuneration 	 specified 	 by 	 law 	 are	
not made; or 
•	 we 	 have 	 not 	 received 	 all 	 the 	 information 	 and 	 explanations 	 we	
require for our audit; or
•	 a 	 corporate 	 governance 	 statement 	 has 	 not 	 been 	 prepared 	 by 	 the	
parent Company. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
•	 the 	 Directors’ 	 statement, 	 set 	 out 	 on 	 page 	 27, 	 in 	 relation 	 to 	 going	
concern;
•	 the 	 parts 	 of 	 the 	 Corporate 	 Governance 	 Statement 	 relating 	 to	
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
•	 certain 	 elements 	 of 	 the 	 report 	 to 	 shareholders 	 by 	 the 	 Board 	 on	
Directors’ remuneration.
Mark Webster (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Newcastle upon Tyne
16 November 2012 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 32
consoliD ateD income s tatement
for the period ended 1 September 2012
  52 week 53 week
  period period
  2012 2011
 Notes £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Revenue 2,3 404,058 373,318
Cost of sales 3 (360,124) (332,202)
Gross profit 3 43,934 41,116
Net operating expenses 3 (31,863) (31,960)
Group operating profit 3,4 12,071 9,156
Profit on disposal of property and investment 2,6 282 —
Finance income 8 673 410
Finance costs 8 (1,348) (1,332)
Share of post-tax profit in associate and joint ventures 5 1,381 1,776
Profit before taxation 2 13,059 10,010
Taxation 9 (2,954) (1,973)
Profit for the period from continuing operations  10,105 8,037
Discontinued operations
(Loss)/profit for the period from discontinued operations 10 (202) 16,598
Profit for the period  9,903 24,635
Profit attributable to:
Equity shareholders  8,510 23,381
Minority interests   1,393 1,254
  9,903 24,635 
Basic earnings per ordinary share (pence) 
Profit from continuing operations  98.2 77.0
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operations  (2.3) 188.4
 12 95.9 265.4
Diluted earnings per ordinary share (pence) 
Profit from continuing operations  97.5 76.3
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operations  (2.3) 186.6
 12 95.2 262.9 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
consoliD ateD anD company s tatements of compRehensive income
for the period ended 1 September 2012
 Group Company
   52 week 53 week 52 week 53 week
   period period period period
   2012 2011 2012 2011
  Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit for the period  9,903 24,635 508 21,149
Other comprehensive (expense)/income
Foreign exchange translation (losses)/gains arising  
  on translation of overseas subsidiaries  (235) 57 121 171
Actuarial (losses)/gains on retirement benefit obligation:
  — Group 29 (2,686) 726 (2,686) 726
  — Share of associate 29 (419) (27) — —
Taxation credit/(charge) on actuarial movement 
 on retirement benefit obligation:
  — Group 20 618 (182) 618 (182)
  — Share of associate  96 7 — —
Other comprehensive (expense)/income  
  for the period, net of tax  (2,626) 581 (1,947) 715
Total comprehensive income/(expense)
  for the period  7,277 25,216 (1,439) 21,864
Total comprehensive income/(expense) 
  attributable to:
Equity shareholders  5,884 23,964 (1,439) 21,864
Minority interests  1,393 1,252 — —
   7,277 25,216 (1,439) 21,864 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 34
consoliD ateD anD company balance sheets
As at 1 September 2012
 Group Company
   52 week 53 week 52 week 53 week
   period period period period
   2012 2011 2012 2011
  Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets
Non-current assets   
Goodwill 13 5,199 4,558 — —
Other intangible assets 13 728 1,029 — —
Property, plant and equipment 14 37,158 31,519 — —
Investment property 15 1,005 764 — —
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 16,19 — — 12,558 12,945
Investment in associate 16,17 5,103 4,246 1,470 1,470
Interest in joint ventures 16,18 2,907 2,519 272 320
Other investments 16 71 67 — —
Financial assets
— Non-current receivables 22 2 2 775 1,275
Deferred tax assets 20 2,480 2,519 1,248 1,492
   54,653 47,223 16,323 17,502
Current assets
Inventories  21 27,128 22,793 — —
Trade and other receivables  22 59,651 56,988 19,266 17,274
Current tax assets 23 — 9 1,469 2,016
Financial assets
— Cash and cash equivalents  24 23,294 33,282 22,736 28,284
   110,073 113,072 43,471 47,574
Total assets   164,726 160,295 59,794 65,076
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
— Borrowings 27 (14,176) (26,436) (10,429) (18,520)
— Derivative financial instruments 28 (309) — (70) —
Trade and other payables 25 (56,108) (53,469) (1,747) (2,155)
Current tax liabilities 26 (1,552) (1,688) — —
    (72,145) (81,593) (12,246) (20,675)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
— Borrowings 27 (11,573) (2,274) (7,470) —
Retirement benefit obligation  29 (5,351) (5,960) (5,351) (5,960)
Deferred tax liabilities 20 (3,733) (4,007) — —
Other non-current liabilities 25 (4,064) (3,617) — —
   (24,721) (15,858) (12,821) (5,960)
Total liabilities  (96,866) (97,451) (25,067) (26,635)
Net assets   67,860 62,844 34,727 38,441
Shareholders’ equity
Called-up share capital  30 2,219 2,216 2,219 2,216
Share premium   8,118 8,059 8,118 8,059
Equity compensation reserve  113 84 142 107
Foreign exchange reserve  160 360 144 23
Other reserve   901 913 — —
Retained earnings   49,075 45,343 24,104 28,036
Total shareholders’ equity  60,586 56,975 34,727 38,441
Minority interests in equity  7,274 5,869 — —
Total equity   67,860 62,844 34,727 38,441
The financial statements set out on pages 32 to 87 were approved by the Board on 16 November 2012 and signed on its behalf by:
Christopher N C Holmes Ronald C Wood Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
consoliD ateD s tatement of chanGes in equity For the period ended 1 September 2012
  Called-up  Treasury Equity Foreign   Total 
  Share Share Share Compensation Exchange Other  Retained Shareholders’ Minority  Total
  Capital Premium Reserve Reserve  Reserve Reserve Earnings Equity Interests Equity
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 29 August 2010  2,196 7,738 (101) 170 301 1,477 22,925 34,706 4,613 39,319
Profit for the period — — — — — — 23,381 23,381 1,254 24,635
Other comprehensive 
  income/(expense) — — — — 59 — 524 583 (2) 581
Total comprehensive income — — — — 59 — 23,905 23,964 1,252 25,216
Dividends paid — — — — — — (2,155) (2,155) — (2,155)
Equity settled share-  
  based payment  
  transactions, net of tax — — — (86) — — 104 18 4 22
Allotment of shares 20 321 — — — — — 341 — 341
Utilisation of shares — — 101 — — — — 101 — 101
Transfer — — — — — (564) 564 — — —
At 3 September 2011 2,216 8,059 — 84 360 913 45,343 56,975 5,869 62,844
At 4 September 2011  2,216 8,059 — 84 360 913 45,343 56,975 5,869 62,844
Profit for the period — — — — — — 8,510 8,510 1,393 9,903
Other comprehensive expense — — — — (235) — (2,391) (2,626) — (2,626)
Total comprehensive 
  (expense)/income — — — — (235) — 6,119 5,884 1,393 7,277
Dividends paid — — — — — — (2,372) (2,372) — (2,372)
Equity settled share-  
  based payment  
  transactions, net of tax — — — 29 — — 8 37 12 49
Allotment of shares 3 59 — — — — — 62 — 62
Transfer — — — — 35 (12) (23) — — —
At 1 September 2012 2,219 8,118 — 113 160 901 49,075 60,586 7,274 67,860
The treasury share reserve included the purchase of own shares in the Company, which were held in trust. These shares were acquired by the trust in 
the open market place and were held to meet the Group’s obligations under the share based award schemes. In the prior period the shares were utilised 
against options exercised under the Share Save Scheme 2006 (5 year plan).
The equity compensation reserve reflects the cumulative spreading, at the balance sheet date, of the fair value of the share schemes over the vesting 
periods. The movement on the equity compensation reserve is taken through the income statement. During the period £8,000 (2011: £104,000) was 
transferred from the equity compensation reserve to retained earnings in respect of the cumulative spreading on options exercised in the period.
The amount recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of foreign exchange translation (losses)/gains arising on translation of 
overseas subsidiaries includes £nil (2011: losses of £2,000) in respect of translation differences attributable to minority interest.
 
The Group has opted to use previous revaluations of property made under UK GAAP as deemed cost. On adoption of IFRS the revaluation reserve  
was reclassified to other reserves. In the prior period the increased transfer from other reserves to retained earnings reflects the accelerated transfer  
of previous revaluations of property owned by the fertiliser blending business which was disposed of during the prior period. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 36
  Called-up  Equity Foreign   
  Share Share Compensation Exchange Retained Total
  Capital Premium Reserve  Reserve Earnings Equity
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 29 August 2010 2,196 7,738 205 (148) 8,451 18,442
Profit for the period — — — — 21,149 21,149
Other comprehensive income — — — 171 544 715
Total comprehensive income — — — 171 21,693 21,864
Dividends paid — — — — (2,155) (2,155)
Equity settled share-based payment 
  transactions, net of tax — — (98) — 47 (51)
Allotment of shares 20 321 — — — 341
At 3 September 2011 2,216 8,059 107 23 28,036 38,441
At 4 September 2011 2,216 8,059 107 23 28,036 38,441
Profit for the period — — — — 508 508
Other comprehensive income/(expense) — — — 121 (2,068) (1,947)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) — — — 121 (1,560) (1,439)
Dividends paid — — — — (2,372) (2,372)
Equity settled share-based payment 
  transactions, net of tax — — 35 — — 35
Allotment of shares 3 59 — — — 62
At 1 September 2012 2,219 8,118 142 144 24,104 34,727
The equity compensation reserve reflects the cumulative spreading, at the balance sheet date, of the fair value of the share schemes over the 
vesting periods. The movement on the equity compensation reserve is taken through the income statement where it relates to employees of 
the Company and to investment in subsidiaries where it relates to employees of the subsidiaries. During the period £nil (2011: £47,000) was 
transferred from the equity compensation reserve to retained earnings and £14,000 (2011: £73,000) was transferred from the equity compensation 
reserve to investment in subsidiaries in respect of the cumulative spreading on options exercised in the period.
 
company s tatement of chanGes in equity For the period ended 1 September 2012  Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
consoliD ateD anD company s tatements of c ash flows
For the period ended 1 September 2012
 Group Company
   52 week 53 week 52 week 53 week
   period period period period
   2012 2011 2012 2011
  Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from/(used in) continuing operations 33 11,974 14,097 (5,318) (3,632)
Interest received  434 403 603 514
Interest paid  (1,385) (1,378) (556) (615)
Tax (paid)/recovered  (2,710) (1,711) 461 741
Net cash generated from/(used in) 
  operating activities in continuing operations   8,313 11,411 (4,810) (2,992)
Net cash used in operating activities 
  in discontinued operations  — (3,202) — —
Net cash generated from/(used in) 
  operating activities  8,313 8,209 (4,810) (2,992)
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of overdraft acquired) 32 (2,063) (1,833) — —
Disposal of subsidiary (including overdraft disposed)  (350) 22,074 — —
Disposal of trade  — 160 — —
Dividends received from subsidiaries  — — 2,220 22,377
Net receipt of loans to subsidiaries  — — 500 2,350
Loan to joint ventures  (881) (1,286) (543) (911)
Loan repaid by share trust  — 83 — 83
Purchase of intangible assets  (54) (45) — —
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment   643 287 — —
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (8,855) (5,025) — —
Proceeds from sale of investment property  94 — — —
Purchase of investment property  (300) — — —
Purchase of investments  (4) (1) — —
Disposal of investment  107 3 107 —
Redemption of preference shares in joint venture  100 — — —
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing
  activities in continuing operations  (11,563) 14,417 2,284 23,899
Net cash used in investing activities in 
  discontinued operations  — (397) — —
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities  (11,563) 14,020 2,284 23,899
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital   62 341 62 341
Net proceeds from loans from subsidiaries  — — 5,225 686
Net proceeds/(costs) from issue of new bank loans  2,381 — (119) —
Finance lease principal repayments  (940) (868) — —
Repayment of borrowings  (5,911) (3,355) (5,661) (1,000)
Increase in other borrowings  628 2,295 — —
Dividends paid to shareholders 11 (2,372) (2,155) (2,372) (2,155)
Receipt of grant income  — 830 — —
Net cash used in financing activities  
  in continuing operations  (6,152) (2,912) (2,865) (2,128)
Net cash used in financing activities in 
  discontinued operations  — (207) — —
Net cash used in financing activities  (6,152) (3,119) (2,865) (2,128)
Effects of exchange rate changes  (171) 71 (157) (54)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents   (9,573) 19,181 (5,548) 18,725
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 24 32,449 13,268 28,284 9,559
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period  24 22,876 32,449 22,736 28,284 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 38
pRincipal a ccountinG policies
Basis of accounting
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going 
concern basis in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) and IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European 
Union (EU) and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable 
to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled 
in England and Wales whose shares are listed and traded on the 
London Stock Exchange. The address of its registered office is Old 
Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle, CA3 9BA.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities 
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of 
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Although these 
estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the amount, 
event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ materially from the 
estimates.
Accounting policies have been applied consistently, other than where 
new policies have been adopted.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historic 
cost convention as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and 
financial liabilities (including derivative financial instruments) at fair 
value through profit or loss.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise Carr’s Milling 
Industries PLC and all its subsidiaries, together with the Group’s 
share of the results of its associate and joint ventures. The financial 
information of the subsidiaries, associate and joint ventures is 
prepared as of the same reporting date and consolidated using 
consistent accounting policies. Group inter-company balances and 
transactions, including any unrealised profits arising from Group inter-
company transactions, are eliminated in full. Profits and losses on 
transactions with the associate and joint ventures are recognised in the 
consolidated income statement.
Results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of during 
the current and prior financial period were included in the financial 
statements from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective 
date of disposal, as appropriate. The separable net assets, both 
tangible and intangible, of the acquired subsidiary undertakings were 
incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of the fair value 
as at the effective date of the Group acquiring control.
Subsidiaries are entities where the Group has the power to govern the 
financial and operating policies, generally accompanied by a share of 
more than 50% of the voting rights. Subsidiaries are consolidated from 
the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are included 
until the date on which the Group ceases to control them. 
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence 
but not control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20 per 
cent and 50 per cent of the voting rights. Joint ventures are entities 
over which the Group has joint control, established by contractual 
agreement. Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted 
for using the equity method. The Group’s share of its associate and 
joint ventures’ post-tax profits or losses are recognised in the income 
statement, and its share of movement in reserves is recognised in 
reserves. The cumulative movements are adjusted against the carrying 
amount of the investment. The Group’s investment in associate and 
joint ventures includes any goodwill arising on acquisition. If the 
Group’s share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or 
exceeds its investment in the associate or joint venture, the Group 
does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations 
or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture. Losses 
have been recognised against loan balances due from joint ventures 
where those loans are deemed to be, in substance, part of the 
permanent equity interest in the joint ventures.
All subsidiaries are accounted for by applying the purchase method.  
The cost of a business combination is measured as the aggregate of 
the fair values, at the acquisition date, of the assets given, liabilities 
incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group.  
The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the 
acquiree are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date, 
irrespective of the extent of any minority interest. The excess of the 
cost of the business combination over the Group’s interest in the net 
fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is 
recognised as goodwill.
Acquisition related costs are expensed to the income statement in the 
period they are incurred.
The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority 
interests as transactions with parties external to the Group.
Employee share trust
Standing Interpretations Committee (SIC) 12 requires that the Group 
consolidate a special purpose entity where the substance of the 
relationship between the parties indicates that the Group controls the 
entity. The employee share trust sponsored by the Group falls within 
this category of special purpose entity and has been accounted for as 
if it were, in substance, a subsidiary.
Currency translation
The financial statements for the Group’s subsidiaries, associate 
and joint ventures are prepared using their functional currency. 
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which an entity operates. The presentation currency of 
the Group is Sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional 
currency using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the 
transactions. Exchange differences resulting from the settlement of 
such transactions and from the translation, at exchange rates ruling at 
the balance sheet date, of monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in currencies other than the functional currency are recognised in the 
consolidated income statement.
The balance sheets of foreign operations are translated into sterling 
using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income 
statements are translated into sterling using the average exchange rate 
for the period. Where this average is not a reasonable approximation 
of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction 
dates, the exchange rate on the transaction date is used. Exchange 
differences arising are recognised as a separate component of 
shareholders’ equity. On disposal of a foreign operation any cumulative 
exchange differences held in shareholders’ equity are transferred to 
the consolidated income statement.
Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods or services is measured at the 
fair value of the consideration, net of rebates and excluding value 
added tax. Revenue from the sale of goods or services is recognised 
when the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of 
ownership of the goods to the buyer, when the amount of revenue 
can be measured reliably and when it is probable that the economic 
benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group. Inter 
segmental transactions are on an arm’s length basis.  Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
In respect of construction contracts, revenue is calculated on the basis 
of the stage of completion and the total sales value of each contract.
The stage of completion is determined as the proportion that contract 
costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the total estimated 
total contract costs. No profit is recognised until a contract is at least 
30 per cent complete. Amounts invoiced for work completed are 
deducted from the selling price, while amounts invoiced in excess of 
work completed are recognised as current liabilities.
Where it is probable that contract costs will exceed total contract 
revenue the expected loss is recognised immediately as an expense in 
the income statement.
Retirement benefit obligations
The Group participates in two defined benefit pension schemes, 
Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 and Carrs Billington 
Agriculture Pension Scheme. The Group also offers various defined 
contribution schemes to its employees.
The assets of the above named schemes are held separately from 
those of the Group and are invested with independent investment 
managers.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the 
consolidated income statement in the period to which they relate.
The liability recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at the period 
end in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is the present value 
of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair 
value of scheme assets. Independent actuaries calculate the defined 
benefit obligation annually using the projected unit credit method. 
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by 
discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of 
high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency 
in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity 
approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The current service costs are included in operating profit in the 
consolidated income statement.
A charge is made within net operating expenses which represents the 
expected increase in the liabilities of the pension schemes during the 
period. This arises from the liabilities of the schemes being one year 
closer to payment.
A credit representing the expected return on the assets of the pension 
schemes during the period is netted against the above charge within 
net operating expenses. This is based on the market value of the 
assets of the schemes at the start of the financial period. Actuarial 
gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in 
actuarial assumptions are recognised in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income. The pension schemes’ deficits or surpluses, to 
the extent that they are considered recoverable, are recognised in full 
on the consolidated balance sheet.
The Group’s share of the deficit in the Carrs Billington Agriculture 
Pension Scheme is recognised through its investment in associate.
Share based payments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain 
employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at 
fair value at the date of the grant. The fair value determined at the 
grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed 
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s 
estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a valuation model. The expected life 
used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best 
estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and 
behavioural considerations.
At each balance sheet date the Group revises its estimate of the 
number of options that are expected to vest. Changes to the fair 
value recognised as a result of this are charged or credited to the 
consolidated income statement with a corresponding adjustment to 
the equity compensation reserve.
Interest
Interest is recognised in the consolidated income statement on an 
accruals basis using the effective interest method. 
Operating segments
The Group has adopted the requirements of IFRS8 ‘Operating 
segments’. The standard requires operating segments to be identified 
on the basis of internal financial information about components of the 
Group that are regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
(‘CODM’) to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their 
performance. The CODM has been identified as the Board of Directors.
The Board considers the business from a product/services 
perspective. Operating segments have been identified as Agriculture, 
Food and Engineering.
Non-recurring items
Non-recurring items that are material by size and/or by nature are 
presented within their relevant income statement category. Items that 
management consider fall into this category are disclosed within a note 
to the financial statements. The separate disclosure of non-recurring 
items helps provide a better indication of the Group’s underlying 
business performance. Events which may give rise to non-recurring 
items include, but are not limited to, gains or losses on the disposal of 
businesses, derivative losses in respect of capital expenditure, gains or 
losses on the disposal of properties, gains or losses on the disposal of 
material investments, the restructuring of businesses, the integration of 
new businesses and asset impairments.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of 
acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of the acquisition. 
At the date of acquisition, goodwill is allocated to cash generating 
units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset, which is carried at cost less 
impairment, and assessed for impairment annually. Any impairment is 
recognised immediately in the income statement. Once recognised, an 
impairment of goodwill is not reversed under any circumstance.
Where a business combination results in an excess of the acquirer’s 
interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost, the excess is credited to 
the consolidated income statement in the period of acquisition.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 31 August 
1998 has not been reinstated and would not form part of the gain or 
loss on the disposal of a business.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation 
commences when assets are available for use. The expected useful 
lives, over which the assets are amortised, are generally as follows:
Customer relationships 1 - 5 years
Brands 15 - 20 years
Know-how 5 years
Patents and trademarks contractual life
Software 3 - 10 years Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 40
pRincipal a ccountinG policies
continued
Customer relationships and brands are amortised in line with the profit 
and income streams they are respectively expected to generate over 
their expected useful life.
Know-how, patents, trademarks and software are amortised on a 
straight-line basis.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination  
is the fair value at the acquisition date. The cost of separately acquired 
intangible assets comprises the purchase price and any directly 
attributable costs of preparing the assets for use.
Research and development costs
All research costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement 
as incurred. Development costs are recognised as an asset only to the 
extent that specific recognition criteria, as set out in IAS38 ‘Intangible 
assets’, relevant to the proposed application are met and the amount 
recognised is recoverable through future economic benefits.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises 
purchase price and directly attributable costs. 
Freehold land and assets in the course of construction are not 
depreciated. For all other property, plant and equipment, depreciation 
is calculated on a straight-line basis to allocate cost less residual 
values of the assets over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings up to 50 years
Leasehold buildings shorter of 50 years or lease term
Plant and equipment 3 to 20 years
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each financial period-
end.
Assets not fully constructed at the balance sheet date are classified as 
assets in the course of construction. When construction is complete 
these assets are reclassified to the appropriate heading within 
property, plant and equipment. Depreciation commences when the 
asset is ready for use.
The cost of maintenance, repairs and minor equipment is charged 
to the consolidated income statement as incurred; the cost of major 
renovations and improvements is capitalised.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the 
proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within the 
consolidated income statement.
Investment property
Investment properties are properties held for long-term rental yields. 
Investment properties are carried in the balance sheet at cost less 
accumulated depreciation. Freehold land is not depreciated. For all 
other investment property, depreciation is calculated on a straight-
line basis to allocate cost less residual values of the assets over their 
estimated useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings  up to 50 years
The cost of maintenance, repairs and minor equipment is charged 
to the consolidated income statement as incurred; the cost of major 
renovations and improvements is capitalised.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the 
proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within the 
consolidated income statement.
Impairment of non-financial assets
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any 
indication that an asset may be impaired. Where an indicator of 
impairment exists, the Group makes an estimate of recoverable 
amount. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its 
recoverable amount the asset is written down to its recoverable 
amount. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs 
to sell and value in use and is deemed for an individual asset. If the 
asset does not generate cash flows that are largely independent of 
those from other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount 
of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs is determined. 
Discount rates reflecting the asset specific risks and the time value of 
money are used for the value in use calculation.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour 
costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the 
inventories to their present location and condition. Where appropriate, 
cost is calculated on a specific identification basis. Otherwise 
inventories are valued using the first-in first-out method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all 
estimated costs to completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, 
selling and distribution.
Contract work in progress is measured at the selling price of the work 
performed at the balance sheet date. The selling price is measured 
by reference to the stage of completion at the balance sheet date and 
total expected income from the contract work. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated 
statement of cash flows comprise cash at bank and in hand, money 
market deposits and other short term highly liquid investments with 
original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts. Bank 
overdrafts are presented in borrowings within current liabilities in the 
consolidated balance sheet.
Grants
Grants received on capital expenditure are recorded as deferred 
income and taken to the consolidated income statement in equal 
annual instalments over the expected useful lives of the assets 
concerned. 
Revenue grants and contributions are taken to the consolidated 
income statement in the period to which they apply.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases at inception where substantially 
all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group. 
Assets classified as finance leases are capitalised on the consolidated 
balance sheet and are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of 
the asset and the term of the lease. The interest element of the rental 
obligations is charged to the consolidated income statement over the 
period of the lease using the actuarial method.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the consolidated 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Leasehold land is normally classified as an operating lease. Payments 
made to acquire leasehold land are included in prepayments at cost 
and are amortised over the life of the lease. Any incentives to enter into 
operating leases are recognised as a reduction of rental expense over 
the lease term on a straight-line basis. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Tax
The tax charge comprises current tax and deferred tax.
The current tax charge represents an estimate of the amounts payable 
to tax authorities in respect of the Group’s taxable profits.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary 
differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. 
Deferred tax arising from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 
transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the 
transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, is not 
recognised. Deferred tax is measured using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are 
expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except 
where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the 
temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement, unless the tax 
relates to items recognised directly in shareholders’ equity, in which 
case the tax is recognised directly in shareholders’ equity through the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Dividends
Final equity dividends to the shareholders of the Company are 
recognised in the period that they are approved by the shareholders. 
Interim equity dividends are recognised in the period that they are 
paid.
Dividends receivable are recognised in the period in which they are 
received.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s 
consolidated balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables  
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, 
less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade 
receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the 
Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the 
original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the 
debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial 
reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered 
indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the 
provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and 
the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the 
original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is 
reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of 
the loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement. When a 
trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance 
account for trade receivables. 
Investments
Investments are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs. 
They are classified as ‘held to maturity’ and are measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method.
Equity investments that do not have a quoted market price in an active 
market and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured by other 
means are held at cost. 
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to 
the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.  
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest 
in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recognised initially at 
fair value net of direct issue costs and are subsequently stated at 
amortised cost. Finance charges, including premiums payable on 
settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on 
an effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of 
the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in 
which they arise.
Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
The Group primarily uses interest rate swaps, caps and collars, 
forward foreign currency contracts and currency swaps to manage  
its exposures to fluctuating interest and foreign exchange rates.  
These instruments are initially recognised at fair value and are 
subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each balance  
sheet date. 
The Group’s policy is to hedge its international assets and it has 
designated foreign currency borrowings as a hedge against net 
investment in foreign operations. The portion of the gain or loss on an 
instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that 
is determined as an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity. 
The gain or loss on any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised 
immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Fair valuation
Fair values are based on market values, where available. Where market 
values are not readily available, the Group establishes fair valuation 
techniques; these include the use of recent arm’s length transactions, 
reference to other similar instruments and discounted cash flow 
analysis. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 42
pRincipal a ccountinG policies
continued
New standards and interpretations
From 4 September 2011 the following interpretations became effective and were adopted by the Group:
IAS 24 (revised): ‘Related party disclosures’ – This revised standard removes the requirement for government related entities to disclose details of all 
transactions with the government and other government-related entities and it clarifies and simplifies the definition of a related party.
Amendment to IFRS 1 on Hyperinflation and fixed dates – These amendments include two changes to IFRS 1, ‘First-time adoption of IFRS’. The 
first replaces references to a fixed date of 1 January 2004 with ‘the date of transition to IFRSs’, thus eliminating the need for entities adopting 
IFRSs for the first time to restate derecognition transactions that occurred before the date of transition to IFRSs. The second amendment provides 
guidance on how an entity should resume presenting financial statements in accordance with IFRSs after a period when the entity was unable to 
comply with IFRSs because its functional currency was subject to severe hyperinflation.
Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Transfers of financial assets – The amendments promote transparency in the reporting of transfer 
transactions and improve users’ understanding of the risk exposures relating to transfers of financial assets and the effect of those risks on an 
entity’s financial position, particularly those involving securitisation of financial assets.
Amendment to IFRIC 14, ‘Pre-payments of a Minimum Funding Requirement’ – This amendment will have a limited impact, as it applies only  
to entities that are required to make minimum funding contributions to a defined benefit pension plan. It removes an unintended consequence  
of IFRIC 14, ‘IAS 19 – The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction’, relating to voluntary pension  
pre-payments when there is a minimum funding requirement. 
The adoption of these interpretations has had no impact on the Group’s profit for the year or equity.
The following new standards, amendments and interpretations, which are in issue at the balance sheet date but not yet effective, have not been 
applied in these financial statements:
 Effective for periods commencing on or after
IFRS 9: ‘Financial instruments’  1 January 2015
IFRS 10: ‘Consolidated financial statements’  1 January 2013
IFRS 11: ‘Joint arrangements’ 1 January 2013
IFRS 12: ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’  1 January 2013
IFRS 13: ‘Fair value measurement’  1 January 2013
IAS 27 (revised 2011): ‘Separate financial statements’  1 January 2013
IAS 28 (revised 2011): ‘Associates and joint ventures’  1 January 2013
Amendment to IFRS 1, ‘First time adoption’ on government grants 1 January 2013
Amendments to IFRS 7 on Financial instruments asset and liability offsetting 1 January 2013
Amendments to IFRS 10,11 and 12 on transition guidance 1 January 2013
Amendment to IAS 1: ‘Presentation of financial statements’ on OCI 1 July 2012
Amendment to IAS 12: ‘Income taxes’ on deferred tax  1 January 2012
Amendment to IAS 19: (revised 2011) ‘Employee benefits’  1 January 2013
Amendments to IAS 32 on Financial instruments asset and liability offsetting 1 January 2014
Annual improvements to IFRSs 2011 1 January 2013
IFRIC 20 ‘Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine’ 1 January 2013
It is considered that the above standards, amendments and interpretations will not have a significant effect on the results or net assets of the Group 
but will increase the level of disclosure to be made in the financial statements.
Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates
Application of certain Group accounting policies requires management 
to make judgements, assumptions and estimates concerning the future 
as detailed below.
Valuation of pension obligations
The valuation of the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme is 
determined each period following advice from the Group’s actuary 
and can fluctuate based on a number of external factors. Such factors 
include the major assumptions as shown in the table in note 29 and 
actual returns on scheme assets compared to those predicted in the 
previous scheme valuation.
Valuation of share-based payments
The fair value of share-based payments is determined using valuation 
models and is charged to the consolidated income statement over the 
vesting period.
The valuation models require certain assumptions to be made as 
shown in the tables in note 31. Estimations of vesting and satisfaction 
of performance criteria are required to determine fair value.
Impairment of goodwill
The carrying value of goodwill must be assessed for impairment 
annually. This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash 
generating units to which goodwill is allocated. Value in use is 
dependent on estimations of future cash flows from the cash generating 
unit and the use of an appropriate discount rate to discount those cash 
flows to their present value.
No impairment has been identified in the period (note 13).
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
The financial statements included an impairment of property, plant and 
equipment in the prior period as shown in note 14. The calculation of 
the impairment required an estimation of recoverable amount.
Revenue recognition on construction contracts
Under long term contracts, the Group recognises revenue and 
profits based on the percentage completion method. This requires 
management to make an assessment of the overall profitability of the 
entire contract in order to determine the level of revenue and profit to 
recognise.
Provision for impairment of trade receivables
The financial statements include a provision for impairment of trade 
receivables (note 22) that is based on management’s estimation of 
recoverability. There is a risk that the provision will not match the trade 
receivables that ultimately prove to be irrecoverable.
Valuation of derivative financial instruments
The fair value of derivative financial instruments (note 28) is determined 
using market factors at the period end over which management have 
no control. Such factors include the estimation of future currency 
exchange rates and interest rates. In addition the fair value of such 
instruments is affected by the global economic environment and 
financial institution pricing structures.  Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
notes to the financial s tatements
1 The Company has taken advantage of the exemption, under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, from presenting its own income statement.  
The profit after tax for the period dealt with in the accounts of the Company was £508,000 (2011: £21,149,000).
2 Segmental information        
The chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) has been identified as the Board of Directors. Management has identified the operating segments 
based on internal financial information reviewed by the Board. The Board considers the business from a product/services perspective. Operating 
segments have been identified as Agriculture, Food and Engineering. Operating segments have not been aggregated for the purpose of 
determining reportable segments. 
Agriculture aims to provide for all farming requirements. It derives its revenue from the sale of animal feed and feed blocks together with retail 
sales of farm equipment, fuels and farm consumables.
Food derives its revenues from the milling of wheat into flour. Customers range from the larger companies, bread and biscuit manufacturers and 
supermarkets, to smaller owner managed bakeries. 
Engineering derives its revenues from the design and manufacture of remote handling equipment for use in research and nuclear industries. In 
addition the UK business is involved in the design and manufacture of pressure vessels for the oil, petrochemical and gas industry. 
        
Performance is assessed using profit before taxation. For internal purposes profit before taxation is measured in a manner consistent with that in 
the financial statements, with the exception of material non-recurring items, which are excluded.      
  
Inter-segmental transactions are all undertaken on an arm’s length basis.
Adjustments to segmental information represents non-reportable segments and consolidation adjustments.
Segment assets represent inventories and trade receivables as reported to the CODM.       
       
As segment liabilities are not reviewed by the CODM they are not required to be disclosed under IFRS 8.     
   
The Group has operations in the UK and overseas. In accordance with IFRS 8, entity wide disclosures based on the geography of operations is 
also presented. The geographical analysis of revenue is presented by revenue origin.       
 
The segmental information for the period ended 1 September 2012 is as follows:
    Agriculture  Food  Engineering  Group 
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenues from external customers   293,796 80,472 29,743 404,011
Adjustments      47
      404,058
Revenues from other operating segments   42 5 54 101
Elimination of inter segment revenues      (101)
      —
Profit before taxation   8,108 442 4,702 13,252
Head office net expense      (1,034)
Retirement benefit charge      (477)
Adjustments related to derivative financial instruments      (236)
Adjustments related to intangible assets      (122)
Other adjustments      13
Profit on disposal of property and investment      282
Share of post-tax profit of associate      1,180
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures      201
Profit before taxation from continuing operations      13,059 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 44
notes to the financial s tatements
continued
2 Segmental information (continued)
    Agriculture  Food  Engineering  Group 
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The following are included in segmental profit before taxation:     
Finance income  202 2 84 288
Adjustments     385
      673
Finance costs  (865) (284) (114) (1,263)
Adjustments     (85)
      (1,348)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  (1,917) (1,430) (643) (3,990)
Adjustments     (175)
      (4,165)
Depreciation of investment property  — (4) — (4)
Adjustments     (16)
      (20)
Profit on the disposal of property, plant and equipment  12 2 8 22
      22
Amortisation of intangible assets  (200) (20) (150) (370)
Adjustments     (122)
      492
    
Assets
    Agriculture  Food  Engineering  Group 
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Segment assets   52,829 16,241 9,950 79,020
Adjustments      (96)
Other current assets:
 Other receivables      7,855
 Cash and cash equivalents      23,294
Non-current assets      54,653
Total Assets      164,726 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
    Agriculture  Food  Engineering  Group 
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenues from external customers   272,678 82,602 18,000 373,280
Adjustments      38
      373,318
Revenues from other operating segments   108 5 72 185
Elimination of inter segment revenues      (185)
      —
Profit before taxation   6,429 1,258 1,657 9,344
Head office net expense      (394)
Retirement benefit charge      (742)
Adjustments      26
Share of post-tax profit of associate      1,455
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures      321
Profit before taxation from continuing operations      10,010
The following are included in segmental profit before taxation:     
Finance income  195 1 22 218
Adjustments     192
Discontinued operations     3
      413
Finance costs  (731) (160) (187) (1,078)
Adjustments     (254)
Discontinued operations     (203)
      (1,535)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  (1,964) (1,308) (494) (3,766)
Impairment of property, plant and equipment  (121) — (203) (324)
Adjustments     (157)
Discontinued operations     (352)
      (4,599)
Depreciation of investment property  — (4) — (4)
Adjustments     (16)
      (20)
Profit/(loss) on the disposal of property, plant and equipment  2 (2) 7 7
Adjustments     3
Discontinued operations     (4)
      6
Amortisation of intangible assets  (250) (22) (106) (378)
Impairment of intangible assets  (325) — — (325)
Adjustments     (102)
      (805)
2 Segmental information (continued)
The segmental information for the period ended 3 September 2011 is as follows:  Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 46
2 Segmental information (continued)
Assets
    Agriculture  Food  Engineering  Group 
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Segment assets   44,402 18,578 7,690 70,670
Adjustments      (64)
Other current assets:
 Other receivables      9,175
 Current tax assets      9
 Cash and cash equivalents      33,282
Non-current assets      47,223
Total Assets      160,295
Entity wide disclosures
Revenues from external customers are derived from the sale of products by individual business segment. The breakdown of revenue by business 
segment is provided above.
Revenues from external customers:
   2012 2011
Continuing operations   £’000 £’000
UK    363,667 350,350 
Other   40,391 22,968
     404,058 373,318 
Non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets:
 2012
   Other Property,   Interest
   intangible plant and Investment Investment in in joint Other Non-current
  Goodwill assets equipment property associate ventures investments receivables
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
UK  4,886 243 32,083 1,005 5,103 1,622 51 2
Other 313 485 5,075 — — 1,285 20 — 
  5,199 728 37,158 1,005 5,103 2,907 71 2
 2011
   Other Property,   Interest
   intangible plant and Investment Investment in in joint Other Non-current
  Goodwill assets equipment property associate ventures investments receivables
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
UK  4,245 455 27,970 764 4,246 1,488 51 2
Other   313 574 3,549 — — 1,031 16 —
  4,558 1,029 31,519 764 4,246 2,519 67 2
Major customers  
There are no revenues from transactions with individual customers which amount to ten per cent or more of Group revenue.  
notes to the financial s tatements
continued Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
3 Revenue, cost of sales and net operating expenses
  2012 2011
Continuing operations   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue  
— from sale of goods   376,189  357,220  
— from contracts   27,869  16,098  
    404,058  373,318
Cost of sales     (360,124)  (332,202)
Gross profit    43,934  41,116
Net operating expenses:
 
Distribution costs   (18,362)  (17,962)
Administrative expenses   (13,501)  (13,998)
  
    (31,863)  (31,960)
Group operating profit     12,071  9,156
The results from acquisitions during the period were not material and have not been presented separately.
4 Group operating profit
 2012 2011
   Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued
   operations operations operations operations
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Group operating profit is stated after (crediting)/charging:
Amortisation of grants   (50) — (8) —
Profit/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment  (22) — (10) 4
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  4,165 — 3,923 352
Impairment of property, plant and equipment  — — 324 —
Depreciation of owned investment property  20 — 20 —
Amortisation of intangible assets    492 — 480 —
Impairment of intangible assets   — — 325 —
Profit on disposal of trade   — — (190) —
Profit on disposal of investment   — — (2) —
Foreign exchange losses/(gains)   94 — (49) (3)
Derivative financial instruments losses/(gains)  309 — — (211)
Operating lease charges   637 — 644 29
Auditors’ remuneration:
Audit services (Company £14,000; 2011: £13,000)  71 — 69 —
The auditing of accounts of subsidiaries of the Company 
  pursuant to legislation (including that of countries and  
  territories outside Great Britain)   136 — 129 10
Services relating to taxation   47 — 47 —
Other services   36 — 17 103
Included within Group operating profit is the following in 
  respect of investment property leased to, and occupied 
  by, external parties:
Rental income   (54) — (44) —
Operating expenses   58 — 60 —
   4 — 16 —
5 Share of post-tax profit in associate and joint ventures  
   2012 2011
Continuing operations  £’000 £’000
Share of post-tax profit in associate  1,180 1,455
Share of post-tax profit in joint ventures      201 321
Total share of post-tax profit in associate and joint ventures   1,381 1,776 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 48
notes to the financial s tatements
continued
6 Non-recurring items
 2012 2011
   Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued
   operations operations operations operations
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries   25,817 — 25,882 1,450
Social security costs   2,776 — 2,781 157
Other pension costs   1,834 — 2,067 92
Share based payments   49 — 20 2
   30,476 — 30,750 1,701
Included within other pension costs in continuing operations is £477,000 (2011: £742,000) in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme.
The average monthly number of employees, including Directors, during the period was made up as follows:
 2012 2011
    Tax credit/  Tax credit/
   Amount (charge) Amount (charge)
Continuing operations   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Group operating profit:       
  Impairment of goodwill   — — (325) — 
  Impairment of property, plant and equipment  — — (324)  81  
  Reorganisation costs of acquired business  — — (292) 77
  Profit on disposal of trade   — —  190  (52)
  Derivative financial instrument loss in respect
    of property, plant and equipment   (236) 54 — —
Group profit before tax:
  Profit on disposal of property   175 (44) — —
  Profit on disposal of investment   107 23 — —
Non-recurring items   46 33 (751)  106 
  
Profit before taxation and non-recurring items   13,013  10,761  
Non-recurring items   46  (751) 
Profit before taxation   13,059  10,010  
       
Group operating profit before non-recurring items  12,307  9,907  
Non-recurring items   (236)  (751) 
Group operating profit   12,071  9,156  
7 Staff costs
 2012 2011
   Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued
   operations operations operations operations
   Number Number Number Number
Sales, office and management   529 — 480 20
Manufacture and distribution   354 — 363 19
   883 — 843 39
Key management are considered to be the Directors of the Group.
Full details of the Directors’ emoluments, pension benefits and share options are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 30. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
   2012 2011
Continuing operations   £’000 £’000
Finance income
Bank interest   643 350
Other interest    30 60
Total finance income    673 410
Finance costs
Interest payable on bank overdrafts   (258) (157)
Interest payable on bank loans and other borrowings   (820) (900)
Interest payable on finance leases   (119) (101)
Interest payable to joint ventures   — (15)
Other interest   (151) (159)
Total finance costs   (1,348) (1,332)
9 Taxation
(a) Analysis of the charge in the period
8 Finance income and finance costs 
   2012 2011
Continuing operations   £’000 £’000
Current tax:
UK corporation tax 
  Current period    827 1,016
  Prior period    (160) (15)
Foreign tax   
 Current period    1,931 782
Group current tax    2,598 1,783
Deferred tax: 
Origination and reversal of timing differences 
  Current period   275 513 
  Prior period   81 (323)
Group deferred tax (note 20)   356 190
Tax on profit from ordinary activities    2,954 1,973 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 50
9 Taxation (continued)
(b) Factors affecting tax charge for the period
The tax assessed for the period is lower (2011: lower) than the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 25.16% (2011: 27.16%). The differences are 
explained below:
   2012 2011
Continuing operations   £’000 £’000
Profit before taxation    13,059 10,010
Tax at 25.16% (2011: 27.16%)   3,286 2,719
Effects of:
  Tax effect of share of profit in associate and joint ventures   (347) (482)
  Tax effect of expenses that are not allowable in determining taxable profit   65 108
  Non taxable income    — (3)
  Effects of different tax rates of foreign subsidiaries    269 68
  Effects of changes in tax rates   (262) (201)
  Over provision in prior years    (79) (338)
  Utilisation of unrecognised tax losses   — (1)
  Unrecognised deferred tax on losses   — 97
  Other    22 6
Total tax charge for the period    2,954 1,973
(c) Factors affecting future tax charges
The Finance Act 2012, which was substantively enacted on 3 July 2012, includes legislation reducing the main rate of corporation tax to 23% from 
1 April 2013. As the Finance Act 2012 was substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, deferred tax balances at 1 September 2012 have been 
calculated using a tax rate of 23%. 
A further reduction to the main rate is proposed to reduce the rate by 1% to 22% by 1 April 2014. This proposed reduction in the main rate of 
corporation tax is not expected to be enacted until a future Finance Bill is approved. The overall effect of the further change from 23% to 22%,  
if this were applied to the deferred tax balance at 1 September 2012, would be to reduce the net deferred tax liability by approximately £104,000.
10 Discontinued operations
In the prior period Carrs Agriculture Limited hived down its fertiliser trade, assets and liabilities (save for certain assets and  liabilities) to Origin 
Fertilisers 2011 Limited (formerly CM Fertilisers Limited), a newly incorporated, wholly  owned subsidiary of Carrs Agriculture Limited.  
Subsequently, in the prior period, Carrs Agriculture Limited disposed of its entire shareholding in Origin Fertilisers 2011 Limited for a cash 
consideration of £19m, less costs to sell. 
An analysis of the result of discontinued operations, and the gain recognised on the re-measurement to fair value less costs to sell, is as follows:
During the period £202,000 of residual costs were incurred in respect of the prior period disposal.
notes to the financial s tatements
continued
   2012 2011
   £’000 £’000
Revenue   — 78,416
Expenses   — (75,355)
Profit before taxation of discontinued operations   — 3,061 
Taxation   — (1,363)
Profit after taxation of discontinued operations   — 1,698 
Pre-taxation (loss)/gain recognised on the measurement to fair value less costs to sell  (202) 14,900 
Taxation   — — 
After taxation (loss)/gain recognised on the measurement to fair value less costs to sell  (202)  14,900 
(Loss)/profit for the period from discontinued operations   (202)  16,598 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
11 Dividends
  2012 2011
    Earnings  Earnings
   Earnings per share Earnings per share
   £’000 pence £’000 pence
Continuing operations
Earnings per share  — basic    8,712 98.2 6,783 77.0
 
Amortisation and non-recurring items:
Amortisation of intangible assets    492 5.5 480 5.5
Taxation relief on amortisation   (120) (1.3) (124) (1.4)
Impairment of goodwill   — — 325 3.7
Impairment of property, plant and equipment  — — 324 3.7
Taxation relief on impairment   — — (81) (0.9)
Reorganisation costs of acquired business  — — 292 3.3
Taxation relief on reorganisation costs   — — (77) (0.9)
Profit on disposal of trade   — — (190) (2.2)
Taxation on disposal of trade   — — 52 0.6
Derivative financial instrument loss   236 2.7    —    —
Taxation relief on derivative loss   (54) (0.6)    —    —
Profit on disposal of property   (175) (2.0)    —    —
Taxation on profit on disposal of property   44 0.5    —    —
Profit on disposal of investment   (107) (1.2)    —    —
Taxation relief on disposal of investment    (23) (0.3)    —    —
Earnings per share — adjusted   9,005 101.5 7,784 88.4
Discontinued operations
Earnings per share — basic and adjusted   (202) (2.3) 16,598 188.4
   8,803 99.2 24,382 276.8
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential 
ordinary shares. The potentially dilutive ordinary shares, where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary 
shares during the period, are disclosed in note 31.
   2012 2011
Equity   £’000 £’000
Second interim paid for the period ended 3 September 2011 of 6.5p per 25.0p share (2010: 6.0p)  576 527
Final dividend for the period ended 3 September 2011 of 13.0p per 25.0p share (2010: 12.0p)   1,153 1,056
First interim paid for the period ended 1 September 2012 of 7.25p per 25.0p share (2011: 6.5p)   643 572
   2,372 2,155
Since the period end a second interim dividend of £643,523, being 7.25p per share, has been paid. The financial statements do not reflect this  
dividend payable.
The proposed dividend to be considered by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting is £1,287,072, being 14.5p per share, making a total for the 
period of 29.0p. The financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
12 Earnings per ordinary share
Earnings per share are calculated by reference to a weighted average of 8,869,438 shares (2011: 8,808,156) in issue during the period.
Non-recurring items and amortisation that are charged or credited to profit do not relate to the profitability of the Group on an ongoing basis. 
Therefore an adjusted earnings per share is presented as follows: Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 52
notes to the financial s tatements
continued
  2012   2011
  Weighted   Weighted
  average Earnings  average Earnings
 Earnings number per share Earnings number per share
 £’000 of shares pence £’000 of shares pence
Continuing operations
Earnings per share 8,712 8,869,438 98.2 6,783 8,808,156 77.0
 
Effect of dilutive securities:
  Share option scheme — 42,734 (0.5) — 60,579 (0.5)
  Share save scheme — 23,524 (0.2) — 23,973 (0.2)
  Deferred bonus scheme — — — — 2,175 —
Diluted earnings per share 8,712 8,935,696 97.5 6,783 8,894,883 76.3
Discontinued operations
Earnings per share (202) 8,869,438 (2.3) 16,598 8,808,156 188.4
Effect of dilutive securities:
  Share option scheme — 42,734 — — 60,579 (1.3)
  Share save scheme — 23,524 — — 23,973 (0.5)
  Deferred bonus scheme — — — — 2,175 —
Diluted earnings per share (202) 8,935,696 (2.3) 16,598 8,894,883 186.6
 8,510 8,935,696 95.2 23,381 8,894,883 262.9
12 Earnings per ordinary share (continued) Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
13 Goodwill and other intangible assets
  Customer   Patents and 
 Goodwill relationships Brands Know-how trademarks Software Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost 
At 28 August 2010  4,396 2,906 603 240 128 422 8,695
Exchange differences — — 17 — (6) 25 36
Subsidiaries acquired 937 68 — — — — 1,005
Subsidiary disposed (450) — — — — — (450)
Additions  — — — — 13 32 45
At 3 September 2011  4,883 2,974 620 240 135 479 9,331
Exchange differences — — (25) — 2 (83) (106)
Subsidiaries acquired 641 184 — — — — 825
Additions  — — — — 10 44 54
At 1 September 2012  5,524 3,158 595 240 147 440 10,104
Accumulated amortisation
At 28 August 2010 60 2,404 199 161 79 94 2,997
Exchange differences — — 2 — (2) 2 2
Subsidiary disposed (60) — — — — — (60)
Charge for the period — 339 39 16 13 73 480 
Impairment in the period 325 — — — — — 325
At 3 September 2011 325 2,743 240 177 90 169 3,744
Exchange differences — — (5) — 1 (55) (59)
Charge for the period — 314 36 63 8 71 492
At 1 September 2012 325 3,057 271 240 99 185 4,177
Net book amount
At 28 August 2010 4,336 502 404 79 49 328 5,698
At 3 September 2011 4,558 231 380 63 45 310 5,587
At 1 September 2012 5,199 101 324 — 48 255 5,927
During the period goodwill of £641,000 arose on acquisitions (note 32).
During the prior period goodwill totalling £937,000 arose on the acquisition of the entire issued share capital of Forsyths of (Wooler) Limited and  
Safe at Work Limited. Goodwill reflected the value of the employees, which under IFRS should not be recorded as a separately identifiable 
intangible asset on the balance sheet, and anticipated synergy benefits arising from the acquisitions. Synergy benefits included the rationalisation  
of the procurement and administration functions.
 For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to cash generating units that are expected to 
benefit from the synergies of the acquisition.  Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 54
   1 September 3 September
   2012 2011
   £’000 £’000
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited   195 195  
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited - Johnstone Wallace Oils profit centre   781 781
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited - Borders profit centre   264 264
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited - Wooler profit centre   369 369
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited - Safe at Work profit centre   568 568 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited - Laycocks profit centre   125 —
Carrs Agriculture Limited - Scotmin profit centre   2,068 2,068
Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH   313 313
Carrs Engineering Limited - Clive Walton Engineering profit centre   516 —
   5,199 4,558 
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. Goodwill is tested for 
impairment by estimating future cash flows from the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated and discounting these cash flows 
to their present value. The key assumptions in this calculation are in respect of discount rates used and the change in cash flows. Management 
estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash 
generating units.
Cash flows are estimated using the most recent budget information for the year to August 2013, which has been approved by the Board and 
extrapolates cash flows based on an estimated growth rate of 1-3% excluding inflation. The pre-tax discount rate used to discount the forecast 
cash flows for all cash generating units is 8.5% (2011: 8.5%).  
The Directors consider the assumptions adopted in calculating the cash flows to be consistent with historical performance and to be reasonable 
given current market conditions.
Significant headroom exists in each of the cash generating units and, based on the sensitivity analysis performed, reasonable possible changes in 
the assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of the cash generating units to equal or to exceed their recoverable amount.
Amortisation and impairment charges are recognised within administrative expenses.
 There is no goodwill or intangible assets in the Company (2011: nil).
notes to the financial s tatements
continued
13 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
The carrying value of goodwill has been allocated to the following cash generating units:  Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
14 Property, plant and equipment
     Assets in the
   Land and Plant and course of
   buildings equipment construction Total
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 28 August 2010    21,970 48,950 945 71,865 
Exchange differences   60 (172) — (112)
Subsidiaries acquired   24 233 — 257
Additions   673 4,720 1,445 6,838
Subsidiary disposed   (2,437) (3,319) — (5,756)
Disposals    — (1,124) — (1,124)
Reclassifications    221 783 (917) 87
Transfer to investment property   (113) — — (113)
Amounts written off   — (485) (28) (513)
At 3 September 2011   20,398 49,586 1,445 71,429
Exchange differences   (155) 21 (2) (136)
Subsidiaries acquired   — 1,063  — 1,063
Additions   42 6,848 2,968 9,858
Disposals    (257) (1,011) — (1,268)
Reclassifications    411 943 (1,354) —
Transfer from assets for resale   — 25 — 25
Amounts written off   — (237) (1) (238)
At 1 September 2012   20,439 57,238 3,056 80,733
Accumulated depreciation
At 28 August 2010   5,549 33,728 — 39,277
Exchange differences    (16) (151) — (167)
Subsidiaries acquired   10 119 — 129
Charge for the period    782 3,493 — 4,275
Impairment in the period   77 247 — 324
Subsidiary disposed   (590) (2,104) — (2,694)
Disposals    — (808) — (808)
Reclassifications   (15) 102 — 87
Transfer to investment property   (28) — — (28)
Amounts written off   — (485) — (485)
At 3 September 2011   5,769 34,141 — 39,910
Exchange differences    (31) 40 — 9
Subsidiaries acquired   — 531 — 531
Charge for the period    797 3,368 — 4,165
Disposals    (64) (739) — (803)
Amounts written off   — (237) — (237)
At 1 September 2012   6,471 37,104 — 43,575
Net book amount
At 28 August 2010   16,421 15,222 945 32,588
At 3 September 2011   14,629 15,445 1,445 31,519
At 1 September 2012   13,968 20,134 3,056 37,158
Freehold land amounting to £2,880,595 (2011: £2,981,221) has not been depreciated.
The net book amount of plant and equipment includes £3,383,618 (2011: £2,519,246) in respect of assets held under finance leases. This consists  
of cost of £6,492,913 (2011: £4,956,821) less accumulated depreciation of £3,109,295 (2011: £2,437,575).
Depreciation is recognised within the Income Statement as shown below:
   2012 2011
Continuing operations   £’000 £’000
Cost of sales   3,137 2,913
Distribution costs   84 107
Administrative expenses   944 903
   4,165 3,923
The Company has no property, plant and equipment (2011: nil). Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 56
15 Investment property
notes to the financial s tatements
continued
    Total
Group    £’000
Cost
At 28 August 2010    871
Transfer from property, plant and equipment    113
At 3 September 2011    984
Additions    310
Disposals    (62)
At 1 September 2012    1,232
Accumulated depreciation
At 28 August 2010     172 
Charge for the period    20
Transfer from property, plant and equipment    28
At 3 September 2011    220
Charge for the period    20
Disposals    (13)
At 1 September 2012    227
Net book amount
At 28 August 2010    699
At 3 September 2011    764
At 1 September 2012    1,005
Included within investment property are properties occupied by life tenants. The net book amount of these properties at 1 September 2012 is  
£159,000 (2011: £163,000).
The fair value of these properties at 1 September 2012 is £1,365,000 (2011: £1,170,000). Investment properties were valued by independent  
professionally qualified valuers in the prior period. The Directors have reviewed the valuations and are satisfied there are no significant changes 
to the assumptions and the valuations. The Directors have therefore not sought updated professional valuations at 1 September 2012. 
There is no investment property in the Company (2011: nil).
16 Investments
    Joint Other
   Associate ventures investments Total
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 28 August 2010   2,811 2,138 278 5,227
Exchange difference   — 60 (2) 58
Additions   — — 1 1
Disposals   — — (1) (1)
Share of post-tax profit   1,455 321 — 1,776
Share of losses recognised directly in equity  (20) — — (20)
At 3 September 2011   4,246 2,519 276 7,041
Exchange difference   — (123) — (123)
Additions   — — 4 4
Disposals   — — (200) (200)
Redemption of preference shares   — (100) — (100)
Reclassification   — 410 — 410
Share of post-tax profit   1,180 201 — 1,381
Share of losses recognised directly in equity  (323) — — (323)
At 1 September 2012   5,103 2,907 80 8,090
Accumulated provision for impairment    
At 28 August 2010 and 3 September 2011  — — 209 209
Disposals   — — (200) (200)
At 1 September 2012   — — 9 9
Net book amount
At 28 August 2010    2,811 2,138 69 5,018
At 3 September 2011    4,246 2,519 67 6,832
At 1 September 2012    5,103 2,907 71 8,081
During the period the initial losses of £410,000 incurred by our three US joint ventures were reclassified to amounts owed by other related parties 
within trade and other receivables. The cumulative losses on these investments have been recognised against the loan balances due from 
these three joint ventures as the loans are considered to form part of the permanent equity interest.
Other investments comprise shares in several private limited companies. These investments have been classified as unquoted investments for  
which fair value cannot be reliably measured and are held at cost less accumulated impairment.  Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
16 Investments (continued)
17 Investment in associate
The associated undertaking at 1 September 2012 is:
Group and Company
  Proportion
  of shares held   
  Ordinary Country of Country of 
Name  % incorporation operation Activity
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Operations) Limited 49 England  UK Manufacture of animal feed
Associates are accounted for using the equity method.
At the period end the associate had capital commitments of £143,000 (2011: £nil). No contingent liabilities exist within the associate.
The aggregate amounts relating to the associate, of which the Group recognises 49%, are:
   2012 2011
   £’000 £’000
Total assets    29,840 26,237
Total liabilities   (21,925) (20,071) 
Revenues    103,163 98,758
Profit after tax   2,408 2,969
 
Included within the investment in associate is a loan for £1,225,000 (2011: £1,225,000) which is considered to form part of the net investment  
in associate.
  Shares in  Joint Other
  subsidiaries Associate ventures investments Total
Company  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 28 August 2010   18,086 1,470 320 200 20,076 
Share based payment expense 
  in respect of employees of 
  subsidiary undertakings  (55) — — — (55)
At 3 September 2011   18,031 1,470 320 200 20,021 
Exchange difference  — — (48) — (48)
Share based payment expense 
  in respect of employees of 
  subsidiary undertakings  28 — — — 28
Disposals  — — — (200) (200)
At 1 September 2012   18,059 1,470 272 — 19,801
Accumulated provision for impairment
At 28 August 2010 and 3 September 2011 5,086 — — 200 5,286
Impairment in the period  415 — — — 415
Disposals  — — — (200) (200)
At 1 September 2012  5,501 — — — 5,501
Net book amount
At 28 August 2010  13,000 1,470 320 — 14,790
At 3 September 2011  12,945 1,470 320 — 14,735
At 1 September 2012  12,558 1,470 272 — 14,300
Other investments comprised shares in several private limited companies. These investments had been classified as unquoted investments for  
which fair value cannot be reliably measured and were held at cost less accumulated impairment. These investments were disposed of in the period. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 58
18 Interest in joint ventures
The joint ventures at 1 September 2012 are:
Group
 Proportion of shares held   
 Ordinary Preference Country of Country of 
Name % % incorporation operation Activity
Crystalyx Products GmbH 50 — Germany  Germany Manufacture of animal 
     feed blocks
Bibby Agriculture Limited 26 26 England UK Sale of agricultural products
Afgritech Limited 50 — England  UK Holding company
Afgritech LLC — — USA USA Producers of ingredients 
     of animal feed
Afgritech Properties LLC — — USA USA Property holding
Gold-Bar Feed Supplements LLC — — USA USA Manufacture of animal 
     feed blocks
Silloth Storage Company Limited 50 — England UK Storage of cane derived 
     livestock feed supplement
Crystalyx Products GmbH has a 31 December accounting period end.
Silloth Storage Company Limited has a 30 June accounting period end.
Interests in the joint ventures listed above are held directly by the holding Company with the following exceptions: Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales) Limited holds 50% of the ordinary share capital and 50% of the preference share capital in Bibby Agriculture Limited. Carrs Agriculture 
Limited holds 50% of the ordinary share capital in Silloth Storage Company Limited. Animal Feed Supplement, Inc. holds the interest in Gold-
Bar Feed Supplements LLC. Afgritech Limited has 100% control of Afgritech LLC and Afgritech Properties LLC. The preference shares in Bibby 
Agriculture Limited are redeemable with three months notice, carry no dividend entitlement except at the Directors’ discretion, and no voting rights.
Afgritech LLC, Afgritech Properties LLC and Gold-Bar Supplements LLC have no issued share capital.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
At the period end Gold-Bar Supplements LLC had capital commitments of £nil (2011: £259,000). No contingent liabilities exist within the joint 
ventures.
The aggregate amounts included in the financial statements relating to the Group’s share of joint ventures are:
notes to the financial s tatements
continued
   2012 2011
   £’000 £’000
Non-current assets   2,914 2,475
Current assets   3,941 4,206
Current liabilities   (4,700) (5,028)
Non-current liabilities   (445) (21)
Income   17,411 14,300
Expenses   (17,074) (13,822)
Net finance income   10 10
 
Goodwill of £17,000 arose on the investment in Silloth Storage Company Limited. This is included in the carrying amount of the Group’s interest in 
joint ventures and is not shown as a separate asset.
 
Included within interest in joint ventures is an amount of £770,000 (2011: £870,000) which relates to the Group’s interest in the preference share 
capital of Bibby Agriculture Limited. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Investments in the subsidiaries listed above are held directly by the Company with the following exception: Carrs Engineering Limited holds 100% 
of the ordinary share capital in Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH.
Dormant subsidiaries are not shown above because disclosure would be excessively lengthy. A full list of subsidiary undertakings will be annexed 
to the Company’s next annual return.
During the period Carrs Engineering Limited acquired the entire issued share capital of Clive Walton Engineering Limited (note 32). By the period 
end the trade and net assets of Clive Walton Engineering Limited had been hived up into Carrs Engineering Limited leaving a dormant company.  
As this company is dormant by the period end it has not been included in the list above.
20 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
 Assets  Liabilities Net
 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax 
 depreciation  — — (2,981) (3,195) (2,981) (3,195)
Employee benefits  1,231 1,490  — — 1,231 1,490
Other 1,249 1,029 (752) (812) 497 217
Tax assets/(liabilities)  2,480 2,519 (3,733) (4,007) (1,253) (1,488)
Movement in deferred tax during the period
 At  In respect of   At
 3 September Exchange acquisitions Recognised Recognised 1 September
 2011 differences and disposals in income in equity 2012
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets:
Employee benefits  1,490 — — (877) 618 1,231
Other  1,029 16 — 204 — 1,249
 2,519 16 — (673) 618 2,480
Liabilities:
Accelerated tax depreciation (3,195) (2) (12) 228 — (2,981)
Other (812) — (29) 89 — (752)
 (4,007) (2) (41) 317 — (3,733)
Net liabilities (1,488) 14 (41) (356) 618 (1,253)
 
Other deferred tax assets and liabilities includes deferred tax on short term timing differences, rolled over capital gains, capital losses, business 
combinations and overseas deferred tax.
Movements in deferred tax recognised in income during the period includes £nil (2011: £321,000) in respect of discontinued operations.
  Proportion
  of shares held   
  Ordinary Country of Country of 
Name  % incorporation operation Activity
Carrs Agriculture Limited   100  England  UK Manufacture of  
     animal feed blocks
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited  51  England UK Agricultural retailers  
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc.   100  USA USA Manufacture of animal 
     feed blocks  
Carr’s Flour Mills Limited   100   England UK Flour milling  
Carrs Engineering Limited   100  England UK Engineering  
Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH  100 Germany Germany Engineering
B.R.B. Trust Limited   100  England UK Financial services  
Carrs Properties Limited   100  England UK Property holding
19 Investment in subsidiary undertakings Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 60
20 Deferred tax assets and liabilities (continued)
Movement in deferred tax during the prior period
 Assets
   2012 2011
Company   £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax depreciation   1 2
Employee benefits     1,231 1,490
Other   16 —
Tax assets    1,248 1,492
 
Movement in deferred tax assets during the period
   At   At
   3 September Recognised Recognised 1 September
   2011 in income in equity 2012
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax depreciation   2 (1) — 1
Employee benefits    1,490 (877) 618 1,231
Other   — 16  — 16
   1,492 (862) 618 1,248
Movement in deferred tax assets during the prior period
   At   At
   29 August Recognised Recognised 3 September
   2010 in income in equity 2011
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax depreciation   2 — — 2
Employee benefits    2,901 (1,229) (182) 1,490
   2,903 (1,229) (182) 1,492
Tax of £176,000 (2011: £191,000) in respect of tax losses has not been recognised as a deferred tax asset in the Group balance sheet.
Tax of £54,000 (2011: £59,000) in respect of tax losses has not been recognised as a deferred tax asset in the Company balance sheet.
 
notes to the financial s tatements
continued
 At  In respect of   At
 29 August Exchange acquisitions Recognised Recognised 3 September
 2010 differences and disposals in income in equity 2011
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets:
Employee benefits  2,901 — — (1,229) (182) 1,490
Other  1,023 (45) — 51 — 1,029
 3,924 (45) — (1,178) (182) 2,519
Liabilities:
Accelerated tax depreciation (4,009) 5 299 510 — (3,195)
Other (951) — (18) 157 — (812)
 (4,960) 5 281 667 — (4,007)
Net liabilities (1,036) (40) 281 (511) (182) (1,488)
  Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
21 Inventories 
   2012 2011
Group   £’000 £’000
Raw materials and consumables   7,726 8,478 
Work in progress   1,497 904
Finished goods and goods for resale    17,905 13,411
   27,128 22,793
Inventories are stated after a provision for impairment of £164,000 (2011: £255,000).
Cost of sales consists of the following:
Material cost   334,074 307,432 
Processing cost   10,291 10,356 
Other   15,759 14,414
   360,124 332,202
The Company has no inventories (2011: nil).
22 Trade and other receivables
 Group Company
  2012 2011 2012 2011
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current:
Trade receivables 56,069 51,762  — —
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables (4,273) (3,949) — —
Trade receivables - net 51,796 47,813 — —
Amounts recoverable on contracts  984 3,856 — —
Amounts owed by Group undertakings (note 38)  — — 16,731 15,706
Amounts owed by other related parties (note 38) 2,607 1,945 1,929 1,353
Other receivables  2,251 1,943 451 135
Prepayments and accrued income  2,013 1,431 155 80
  59,651 56,988 19,266 17,274
Non-current:
Amounts owed by Group undertakings (note 38) — — 775 1,275
Other receivables 2 2 — —
  2 2 775 1,275
The movement in the provision for impaired trade receivables consists of increases for additional provisions offset by receivables written off and 
unused provision released back to the consolidated income statement. Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written off when 
there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
During the period a charge of £441,000 (2011: £1,187,000) has been recognised within administrative expenses in the consolidated income 
statement in respect of the provision for impairment of trade receivables.
No impairment of other receivables has been recognised in the current or preceding period.
Interest bearing, non-trading amounts owed by Group undertakings carry interest at Bank of England base rate + 2.50%. Such amounts are 
unsecured and repayable on demand.
Interest bearing, non-trading amounts owed by other related parties carry interest at Bank of England base rate + 2.25%. Such amounts 
are unsecured and repayable on demand.
  Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 62
22 Trade and other receivables (continued)
 Group Company
  2012 2011 2012 2011
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The carrying value of trade receivables are denominated 
in the following currencies:
Sterling 46,404 45,079  — —
US Dollar 879 602 — —
Euro  4,513 2,132 — —
   51,796 47,813 — —
23 Current tax assets
 Group Company
  2012 2011 2012 2011
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Corporation tax recoverable  — 9 517 873
Group taxation relief  — — 952 1,143
  — 9 1,469 2,016
notes to the financial s tatements 
continued
 2012 2011
    Past due but   Past due but
  Gross Impairment not impaired Gross Impairment not impaired
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The ageing of trade 
  receivables is as  
  follows:       
 
Not past due 36,362 (351) N/A 34,519 (489) N/A
Past due 0 - 30 days 8,269 (219) 8,050 8,011 (427) 7,584
Past due 31 - 60 days 3,566 (282) 3,284 3,582 (479) 3,103
Past due 61 - 90 days 2,432 (423) 2,009 1,903 (486) 1,417
Past due 91 - 120 days 1,413 (397) 1,016 1,001 (371) 630
Past 121 days 4,027 (2,601) 1,426 2,746 (1,697) 1,049
   56,069 (4,273) 15,785 51,762 (3,949) 13,783
The Company has no trade receivables (2011: nil).
   
The credit quality of customers is assessed at subsidiary and Group level, taking into account their financial positions, past experiences and other  
relevant factors. Individual customer credit limits are imposed based on these factors.    
   
It is Group policy that overdue accounts are reviewed monthly at divisional management meetings to mitigate exposure to credit risk and are 
provided for where appropriate.     
  
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the period end is the carrying value, net of provision for impairment, of each receivable. The Group and  
Company do not hold any significant collateral as security (2011: £nil). Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
24 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 
 Group Company
  2012 2011 2012 2011
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents per the balance sheet  23,294 33,282 22,736 28,284
Bank overdrafts (note 27) (418) (833) — —
Cash and cash equivalents per the statement of cash flows  22,876 32,449 22,736 28,284
25 Trade and other payables
 Group Company
  2012 2011 2012 2011
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current:
Trade payables  25,008 23,249 — —
Payments on account  8,903 10,816 — —
Amounts owed to Group undertakings (note 38) — — 46 379
Amounts owed to other related parties (note 38) 13,901 10,790 — 16
Other taxes and social security payable  855 1,095 258 418
Other payables  2,666 2,476 179 136
Accruals and deferred income  4,775 5,043 1,264 1,206
   56,108 53,469 1,747 2,155
Non-current:
Other payables  3,184 2,687 — —
Accruals and deferred income  880 930 — —
   4,064 3,617 — —
Amounts owed to Group undertakings and other related parties are interest free, unsecured and repayable on demand.
Included within non-current accruals and deferred income is the following in respect of government grants:
 Group Company
  2012 2011 2012 2011
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  930 108 — —
Received in the period — 830 — —
Amortisation in the period (50) (8) — —
At the end of the period  880 930 — —
26 Current tax liabilities
 Group Company
  2012 2011 2012 2011
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current tax  1,552 1,688 — — Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 64
27 Borrowings 
 Group Company
  2012 2011 2012 2011
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The net borrowings are:
Borrowings as above  25,749 28,710 17,899 18,520
Cash and cash equivalents (23,294) (33,282) (22,736) (28,284)
Net borrowings/(cash)  2,455 (4,572) (4,837) (9,764)
Bank loans and other borrowings includes an amount of £11,559,000 (2011: £10,931,000 ) which is secured on trade receivables. The Company, 
together with certain subsidiaries, act as guarantors on the bank loans. In addition, Royal Bank of Scotland PLC have a legal charge over certain 
properties. Finance lease obligations are secured on the assets to which they relate.
Interest bearing loans from Group undertakings carry interest at 1.68%, Bank of England base rate + 1.00% or Bank of England base rate + 2.50%. 
Such amounts are unsecured and repayable on demand.
Other loans are non-interest bearing and have no fixed date for repayment. The bank loans are repayable by instalments and the overdraft is 
repayable on demand.
Non-current bank loans (2011: Current bank loans) includes a drawn down revolving credit facility of £5.8 million (2011: £10 million) which is subject 
to renewal in November 2014. At the period end £4.2 million is undrawn (2011: £nil).
 Group Company
  2012 2011 2012 2011
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current:
Bank overdrafts  418 833 — —
Bank loans and other borrowings 12,864 24,931 805 14,000
Loans from Group undertakings (note 38) — — 9,624 4,520
Finance leases 894 672 — —
   14,176 26,436 10,429 18,520
Non-current:
Bank loans  9,220 — 7,470 —
Other loans (note 38)  1,225 1,225 — —
Finance leases  1,128 1,049 — —
   11,573 2,274 7,470 —
Borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year  14,176 26,436 10,429 18,520
In the second year  1,961 538 805 —
In the third to fifth years inclusive  9,612 1,736 6,665 —
  25,749 28,710 17,899 18,520
Group and Company borrowings are shown in the balance sheet net of arrangement fees of £63,000 (2011: £nil) of which £28,000 (2011: £nil)  
is deducted from current liabilities and £35,000 is deducted from non-current liabilities (2011: £nil).
notes to the financial s tatements
continued Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 65
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
28 Derivatives and other financial instruments  
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing its risk and they are summarised 
below. These policies have remained unchanged throughout the period.
Credit risk
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, 
deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers. The credit quality of trade and other receivables is detailed 
in note 22.
The majority of Group revenues are made on credit terms. It is Group policy that overdue accounts are reviewed monthly at divisional management 
meetings to mitigate exposure to credit risk and are provided for where appropriate. The current financial climate requires the Group’s credit control 
function to be particularly vigilant.
Price risk
The Group is not exposed to equity securities price risk. Due to the nature of its business the Group is exposed to commodity price risk such as the 
fluctuation in wheat prices. This risk is, however, managed primarily through the use of contracts to secure supply at agreed prices.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in foreign exchange rates (currency risk) and interest rates (interest rate risk) will affect income or the value of 
financial assets and liabilities.
Currency risk
The Group publishes its financial statements in Sterling but conducts business in some foreign currencies. As a result it is subject to foreign 
currency exchange risk due to the effects that exchange rate movements have on the translation of results and the underlying net assets of its 
foreign subsidiaries.
The Group’s subsidiary, Animal Feed Supplement, Inc., operates in the US and its revenues and expenses are denominated exclusively in US 
dollars.
Afgritech LLC, Afgritech Properties LLC and Gold-Bar Feed Supplements LLC, joint ventures of the Group, operate in the US and their revenues 
and expenses are denominated exclusively in US dollars.
The Group’s subsidiary, Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH, operates in Germany and its revenues and expenses are denominated exclusively in 
Euros.
Crystalyx Products GmbH, a joint venture of the Group, operates in Germany and its revenues and expenses are denominated exclusively in Euros.
The major transactional foreign currency risk facing the Group is in the purchase of raw materials for the flour milling operation. The major currency 
involved is the Euro. In addition, the Group is committed to build a new flour mill at Kirkcaldy and part of the expenditure on equipment is in Swiss 
Francs. The policy of the Group is to hedge using forward foreign exchange contracts with the UK banks as soon as commitment has been given to 
the underlying transaction. 
    
The Group is hedging its international assets and has designated foreign currency borrowings as a hedge against its net investment in foreign 
operations. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 66
28 Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
Financial Instruments by currency
 
 2012 2011
   US  Swiss   US    Swiss
  Sterling Dollar Euro Franc  Total Sterling  Dollar Euro Franc Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets        
Other investments 51 20 — — 71 51 16 — — 67
Non-current receivables 2 — — — 2 2 — — — 2
Current trade and other receivables 50,368 3,806 5,477 — 59,651 52,539 2,105 2,344 — 56,988
Cash and cash equivalents 21,264 922 1,103 5 23,294 28,910 114 4,258 — 33,282
   71,685 4,748 6,580 5 83,018 81,502 2,235 6,602 — 90,339
Liabilities         
Current borrowings 13,758 418 — — 14,176 25,178 200 1,058 — 26,436
Current derivatives — 3 70 236 309 — — — — —
Current trade and other payables 44,213 1,645 10,250 — 56,108 43,271 1,110 9,088 — 53,469
Non-current borrowings 11,573 — — — 11,573 2,274 — — — 2,274
Other non-current liabilities 880 3,184 — — 4,064 929 2,688 — — 3,617
   70,424 5,250 10,320 236 86,230 71,652 3,998 10,146 — 85,796
 2012 2011
  US    US    
 Sterling Dollar Euro  Total Sterling  Dollar Euro Total
Company £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets        
Non-current receivables 775 — — 775 1,275 — — 1,275
Current trade and other receivables 17,361 1,905 — 19,266 16,325 949 — 17,274
Cash and cash equivalents 21,657 786 293 22,736 28,124 111 49 28,284
  39,793 2,691 293 42,777 45,724 1,060 49 46,833
Liabilities         
Current borrowings 984 5,482 3,963 10,429 14,179 4,341 — 18,520
Current derivatives — — 70 70 — — — —
Current trade and other payables 1,747 — — 1,747 2,155 — — 2,155
Non-current borrowings 7,470 — — 7,470 — — — —
  10,201 5,482 4,033 19,716 16,334 4,341 — 20,675
The Group and Company have right of offset on certain bank accounts.
Sensitivity analysis         
The impact of a weakening or strengthening in Sterling against other currencies at the balance sheet date is shown in the table below.  
The Directors consider that a 10% weakening or strengthening in Sterling against the Euro and a 5% weakening or strengthening in Sterling 
against other currencies represents reasonable possible changes.
   2012   2011
  5%/10% weakening        5%/10% strengthening 5% weakening 5% strengthening
  £’000    £’000 £’000 £’000
Impact on profit after taxation 600  (505) 185 (168)
Impact on total equity 410  (348) 224 (202)
This sensitivity analysis is not an indication of actual results, which may materially differ. For the purposes of this sensitivity analysis all other 
variables have been held constant.      
notes to the financial s tatements
continued Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 67
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
28 Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
Interest rate risk   
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained earnings and bank borrowings. The Group borrows in the desired currencies  
at fixed and floating rates of interest and then uses interest rate caps and swaps to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations.  
Historically the policy of the Group has been to hedge around 40% to 60% of the core borrowings. With low interest rates and low net borrowings 
the Directors decided not to manage the Group’s cost of borrowing through interest rate hedging instruments. The Directors will continue to review 
the appropriateness of the Group’s interest rate and hedging policy should the level of net borrowing increase during the financial year. At the 
period end £2.0 million (2011: £1.7 million) of the Group’s borrowings were at a fixed rate of interest.
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average
  effective  effective 
  interest rate 2012 interest rate 2011
Group % £’000 % £’000
Bank overdrafts 5.75 418 3.00 833
Bank loans and other borrowings 2.75 22,084 2.95 24,931
Other loans — 1,225 — 1,225
Finance lease liabilities 4.30 2,022 6.46 1,721
   25,749  28,710
Fixed rate  2,022  1,721
Floating rate  22,502  25,764
Non-interest bearing  1,225  1,225
   25,749  28,710
The Group’s floating rate financial liabilities bear interest determined as follows:     
Bank overdrafts Bank of England base rate + 2.25%; US prime rate + 1% margin 
Bank loans and other borrowings Libor + 2.5%; Libor + 2.25%; Bank of England base rate + 1.9% margin
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average
  effective  effective 
  interest rate 2012 interest rate 2011
Company % £’000 % £’000
Bank loans 3.18 8,275 3.38 14,000
Loans from Group undertakings 1.59 9,624 1.50 4,520
    17,899  18,520
Fixed rate  3,963  —
Floating rate  13,936  18,520
    17,899  18,520
The Company’s floating rate financial liabilities bear interest determined as follows:     
     
Bank loans  Libor + 2.5% Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 68
notes to the financial s tatements
continued
28 Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
Sensitivity analysis      
The impact of a decrease or increase in interest rates during the period is shown in the table below. The Directors consider that a 1% 
movement in interest rates represents reasonable possible changes.
 2012 2011
  1% decrease 1% increase 1% decrease 1% increase
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Impact on profit after taxation 92 (88) 365 (362)
Impact on total equity 92 (88) 365 (362)
This sensitivity analysis is not an indication of actual results, which may materially differ. For the purposes of this sensitivity analysis all other 
variables have been held constant.     
Liquidity risk    
The Group’s policy throughout the period has been to maintain a mix of short and medium term borrowings. Short-term flexibility is achieved by 
overdraft facilities. In addition it is the Group’s policy to maintain committed undrawn facilities in order to provide flexibility in the management of the 
Group’s liquidity.     
The tables below analyse the Group and Company’s financial liabilities which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based 
on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows which have been calculated using spot rates at the relevant balance sheet date. 
 2012  2011
  Within One to Two to  Within One to Two to
  one two five  one two five
 Total year years years Total year years years
Group £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
Bank overdrafts 418 418 — — 833 833 — —
Bank loans and other borrowings 22,788 13,199 1,599 7,990 24,931 24,931 — —
Other loans 1,225 — — 1,225 1,225 — — 1,225
Finance lease liabilities 2,174 980 699 495 1,884 757 585 542
Derivatives 309 309 — — — — — —
Trade and other payables 56,108 56,108 — — 53,469 53,469 — —
Other non-current liabilities 4,064 — — 4,064 3,617 — — 3,617
  87,086 71,014 2,298 13,774 85,959 79,990 585 5,384
 2012  2011
  Within One to Two to  Within One to Two to
  one two five  one two five
 Total year years years Total year years years
Company £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
Bank loans 8,856 1,079 1,052 6,725 14,000 14,000 — —
Loans from Group undertakings 9,624 9,624 — — 4,520 4,520 — —
Derivatives 70 70 — — — — — —
Trade and other payables 1,747 1,747 — — 2,155 2,155 — —
 20,297 12,520 1,052 6,725 20,675 20,675 — —
  
Future minimum lease payments of finance leases
  Repayment profile
  2012 2011 2012 2011
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Amount payable: 
Within one year 980 757 894 672
In the second year 699 585 656 538
In the third to fifth years inclusive 495 542 472 511
  2,174 1,884 2,022 1,721
Less:  future finance charges (152) (163)
Present value of lease obligations 2,022 1,721
The Company has no finance lease obligations (2011: nil).  Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 69
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
   2012 2011
   Floating rate Floating rate
   £’000 £’000
Expiring in one year or less   19,144 17,842 
The Company’s overdraft is within a Group facility and it is therefore not possible to determine the Company’s undrawn committed facilities at the 
balance sheet date.
Capital risk management        
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for 
shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an efficient capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.    
    
 In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to 
shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.      
 The Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by shareholders’ equity. Net debt is 
calculated as total borrowings (including current and non-current borrowings) as shown in the consolidated balance sheet less cash and cash 
equivalents. Shareholders’ equity is as shown in the consolidated balance sheet.     
At 1 September 2012 the Group had net debt of £2.5m compared to net cash of £4.6m at the prior period end.    
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities 
28 Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
Borrowing facilities        
The Group has various undrawn committed facilities. The undrawn facilities available at 1 September 2012, in respect of which all conditions 
precedent had been met, were as follows:
 Group  Company
 2012 2011 2012 2011
 Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair
 value value value value value value value value
 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
Assets
Other investments 71 71 67 67  — — — —
Non-current receivables 2 2 2 2 775 775 1,275 1,275 
Current trade and other receivables 59,651 59,651 56,988 56,988 19,266 19,266 17,274 17,274 
Cash and cash equivalents 23,294 23,294 33,282 33,282 22,736 22,736 28,284 28,284 
  83,018 83,018 90,339 90,339 42,777 42,777 46,833 46,833 
         
Liabilities         
Current borrowings 14,176 14,176 26,436 26,436  10,429 10,429 18,520 18,520 
Current derivatives 309 309 — — 70 70 — — 
Current trade and other payables 56,108 56,108 53,469 53,469  1,747 1,747 2,155 2,155 
Non-current borrowings 11,573 11,686 2,274 2,207  7,470 7,607 — — 
Other non-current liabilities 4,064 4,064 3,617 3,617  — — — — 
 86,230 86,343 85,796 85,729  19,716 19,853 20,675 20,675 
 
Where market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by 
applying year end exchange rates.         
 Other investments consist of investments in unquoted companies, which are held at cost as fair value cannot be reliably measured.  
 Derivative instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.       
     
 The fair value of current assets and current liabilities are assumed to approximate to book value due to the short term maturity of the instrument.  
          Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 70
28 Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
Derivative financial instruments        
Hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries
The Company has US dollar denominated borrowings totalling $8,700,000 (2011: $7,000,000) which act as a partial hedge against the investment 
in its US subsidiary. The fair value of the US dollar borrowings at 1 September 2012 was £5,482,000 (2011: £4,341,000) and a foreign exchange 
pre-tax loss of £78,000 (2011: pre-tax gain of £171,000) was recognised in equity during the year on translation of this loan to sterling.
The Company has Euro denominated borrowing totalling X5,000,000 (2011: Xnil) which act as a partial hedge against the investment in its 
European subsidiary. The fair value of the Euro borrowings at 1 September 2012 was £3,963,000 (2011: £nil) and a foreign exchange pre-tax gain 
of £199,000 (2011: £nil) was recognised in equity during the year on translation of this loan to sterling.
A subsidiary of the Group has Euro denominated net loans payable totalling Xnil (2011: X2,008,000) which act as a partial hedge against the 
investment in its European subsidiary. The fair value of the Euro net loans payable at 1 September 2012 was £nil (2011: £1,760,000). No foreign 
exchange gains or losses (2011: pre-tax loss of £84,000) were recognised in equity during the year on translation of this net loan to sterling.
Currency derivatives          
The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to manage exchange risk exposure. At the balance sheet date, the fair value of outstanding 
forward foreign currency contracts are as below:
 2012 2011
   Contractual  Contractual
  Fair or notional Fair or notional
  value amount value amount
Group  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At beginning of period — — (127) 6,299
(Losses)/gains during the period (239) 7,693 211 7,743
Disposal of subsidiary — — (84) (14,042)
At end of period (239) 7,693 — —
Included within: 
  Current liabilities (239) 7,693 — —
  (239) 7,693 — —
The Company has no forward foreign currency contracts (2011: £nil).
The Group and Company use currency swaps to manage exchange risk exposure. At the balance sheet date, the fair value of outstanding  
currency swaps are as below:
notes to the financial s tatements
continued
 2012 2011
   Contractual  Contractual
  Fair or notional Fair or notional
  value amount value amount
Group and Company  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At beginning of period — — — —
Losses during the period (70) 4,042 — —
At end of period (70) 4,042 — —
Included within: 
  Current liabilities (70) 4,042 — —
  (70) 4,042 — —
Fair value has been determined by reference to the value of equivalent forward foreign currency contracts and currency swaps at the balance  
sheet date. 
All forward foreign currency contracts and currency swaps have a maturity of less than one year after the balance sheet date. Gains and losses  
on currency related derivatives are included within administrative expenses. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 71
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
29 Retirement benefit obligation
The Group participates in two defined benefit pension schemes, Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 and Carrs Billington Agriculture 
Pension Scheme.
Carr’s Milling Industries
The Company sponsors the Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 and offers a defined contribution and a defined benefit section.  
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group and are invested with independent investment managers.
The pension expense for the defined contribution section of the scheme for the period was £403,000 (2011: £409,000). Contributions totalling 
£22,000 (2011: £21,000) were payable to the fund at the period end and are included in other payables.
The defined benefit section of the scheme is funded to cover future pension liabilities (including expected future earnings and pension increases).  
It is subject to an independent valuation on a triennial basis by a qualified actuary who determines the rate of the employer’s contribution. The 
most recent valuation of the scheme was at 31 December 2011 and adopted the Projected Unit Method. It was assumed that the investment 
returns would be 5.7% per annum and that the salary increases would average 4.05% per annum. It was also assumed that present and future 
pensions would increase up to a maximum of 5% per annum.
The actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2011 shows a funding shortfall (technical provisions minus value of assets) of £9,945,000.
The pension contribution made by the Group over the period to the defined benefit section was £3,772,000 (2011: £4,801,000).
In addition, the Group offers a Group Personal Pension plan to certain employees of Carr’s Flour Mills Limited. The pension expense for this 
scheme for the period was £274,000 (2011: £298,000).
 The following disclosures relate to the defined benefit section of the Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993. The last full actuarial  
valuation of this scheme was carried out by a qualified independent actuary as at 31 December 2011 and updated on an approximate basis to  
1 September 2012.
Major assumptions:     
   2012 2011
   % %
Inflation (RPI)   2.55 3.00
Inflation (CPI)   1.85 2.30
Salary increases   3.05 4.00
Rate of discount   4.40 5.40
Pension in payment increases: 
  RPI or 5.0% per annum if less   2.55 3.00
  RPI or 5.0% per annum if less, minimum 3.0% per annum   3.00 3.00
Allowance for revaluation of deferred pensions of CPI or 5.0% per annum if less   1.85 2.30
 
The UK Government announced on 8 July 2010 that statutory pension increases or revaluations would be based on the Consumer Prices Index 
measure of price inflation from 2011, rather than the Retail Prices Index measure of price inflation. The Trustees have received legal advice which 
states that pension increases in the Scheme will continue to be linked to RPI and deferred increases will in the future be based on the statutory  
CPI increases. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 72
29 Retirement benefit obligation (continued)
The mortality tables used in the valuation as at 1 September 2012 are 100% of S1PMA (males) and S1PFA (females) with allowance for mortality 
improvements using CMI_2009 with a 1.5%pa underpin. The mortality assumptions adopted imply the following life expectancies at age 65 as at   
1 September 2012 (the life expectancies as at 3 September 2011 used a different set of mortality tables):
   At At
   1 September  3 September  
   2012 2011
Males currently age 45   24.8 years 23.7 years
Females currently age 45   27.0 years 26.1 years
Males currently age 65   22.5 years 21.8 years
Females currently age 65   24.6 years 24.3 years
 
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of defined benefit schemes:
   2012 2011
   £’000 £’000
Current service cost    510 644
Interest on pension scheme liabilities    2,591 2,496
Expected return on pension scheme assets   (2,624) (2,398)
   477 742
 
The expense is recognised within the Income Statement as shown below:
   2012 2011
   £’000 £’000
Cost of sales    224 299 
Administrative expenses    253 443
   477 742
Actuarial losses of £2,686,000 (2011: gains of £726,000) have been reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The cumulative amounts of actuarial losses recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income since adoption of IAS19 is £8,260,000  
(2011: £5,574,000).
Amounts included in the Balance Sheet:  
   2012 2011
   £’000 £’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations   (55,472) (48,918)
Fair value of scheme assets    50,121 42,958
Deficit in scheme   (5,351) (5,960)
notes to the financial s tatements
continued Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 73
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
29 Retirement benefit obligation (continued)
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations:
 2012 2011
 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  48,918 48,551
Current service cost  510 644
Interest cost  2,591 2,496
Changes in assumptions underlying the defined benefit obligation  5,490 (1,296)
Benefits paid (2,037) (1,477)
At the end of the period  55,472 48,918
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets:
 2012 2011
 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  42,958 37,806
Expected return on scheme assets  2,624 2,398
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets  2,804 (570)
Contributions by employer  3,772 4,801
Benefits paid (2,037) (1,477)
At the end of the period  50,121 42,958
 
Analysis of the scheme assets, expected rate of return and actual return:
 Expected return Fair value of assets
  2012 2011 2012 2011
  % % £’000 £’000
Equity instruments  6.20 6.65 25,384 21,975
Debt instruments  4.10 5.10 20,659 16,841
Property  6.20 6.45 3,895 3,758
Other assets  4.10 5.10 183 384 
  5.33 6.01 50,121 42,958 
Actual return on scheme assets    5,428 1,828 
The expected long term return on other assets is based on the rate of return on bonds. The expected return on bonds is determined by reference to 
corporate bond yields at the balance sheet date. The expected rate of return on equities and property is based on the rate of return on bonds with 
an allowance for out-performance. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 74
29 Retirement benefit obligation (continued)
History of scheme:         
  2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Present value of the defined benefit  
  obligation  (55,472) (48,918) (48,551) (46,763) (48,016)
Fair value of scheme assets   50,121 42,958 37,806 32,090 31,458 
Deficit  (5,351) (5,960) (10,745) (14,673) (16,558)
Difference between expected and 
  actual returns on scheme assets:
  Amount £’000   2,804 (570) 2,300 (2,090) (3,742)
  Percentage of scheme assets  5.6% 1.3% 6.1% 6.5% 11.9%
Gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
  Amount £’000  (5,490) 1,296 (6) 3,041 (7,323)
  Percentage of scheme liabilities  9.9% 2.6% 0% 6.5% 15.3%
 
 The Group expects to contribute approximately £2,937,000 to the defined benefit scheme in the next financial period.  The Company expects to 
contribute approximately £2,288,000 to the defined benefit scheme in the next financial period.
 
Carrs Billington Agriculture
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited, one of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings, is a participating employer of the Carrs Billington Agriculture 
Pension Scheme, another funded defined benefit scheme. On 30 November 2007, following consultation with the active members,  
the Company and Trustees agreed to close the scheme to future service accrual. 
 The pension contribution made by Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited over the period to the Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme 
was £nil (2011: £nil).
 The actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2009 shows that the market value of assets relating to the scheme was £21,000,000 and the actuarial 
value of those assets represented 76% of the actuarial value of benefits that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected future  
increase in earnings. It was assumed that the investment returns would be pre-retirement 6.1% per annum and post-retirement 4.9% per annum.  
At 31 December 2009, the scheme showed a deficit of £6,700,000.
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited offers a Group Personal Pension Plan to its employees and the pension expense for this plan in the 
period was £358,000 (2011: £388,000). 
 During the period contributions were also payable to a defined contribution pension scheme for certain employees of Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales) Limited. The pension expense for this scheme for the period was £15,000 (2011: £14,000).
 The following disclosures relate to the defined benefit scheme. The last full actuarial valuation of this scheme was carried out by a qualified 
independent actuary as at 31 December 2009 and updated on an approximate basis to 1 September 2012. 
 It is not possible to identify the underlying share of the pension scheme assets and liabilities that relate to the Group. At inception in June 2000 
approximately 50% of the assets and liabilities of the pension scheme related to the Group and under IFRS approximately 50% of the assets and  
liabilities are included in the Group’s financial statements through the investment in associate, which is the sponsoring employer of the scheme.
notes to the financial s tatements
continued Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 75
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
29 Retirement benefit obligation (continued)
Major assumptions:         
   2012 2011
   % %
Inflation (RPI) 2.70 3.20
Inflation (CPI) 2.00 2.50
Salary increases N/A N/A
Rate of discount 4.40 5.40
Pension in payment increases:
  LPI max 5% 2.70 3.10
  LPI max 3% 2.20 2.70
  LPI max 2.5% 1.90 2.25
Revaluation rate for deferred pensioners for pensions revaluing at 5.0% per annum or CPI if less 2.00 2.50
 
The UK Government announced on 8 July 2010 that statutory pension increases or revaluations would be based on the Consumer Prices Index 
measure of inflation from 2011, rather than the Retail Prices Index measure of price inflation. The Trustees have received legal advice which states  
that pension increases in the Scheme will continue to be linked to RPI and deferred increases will in the future based be on the statutory CPI 
increases.
 
Mortality rates used in the valuation are based on the S1NMA and S1NFA tables, projected, medium cohort, allowing for members’ actual year of 
birth with a 1.5% underpin for future improvements. The mortality assumptions adopted imply the following life expectancies at age 65:
 At At
 1 September  3 September 
 2012 2011
Males currently age 45 24.7 years 24.7 years
Females currently age 45 27.7 years 27.7 years
Males currently age 65 21.8 years 21.8 years
Females currently age 65 24.7 years 24.7 years
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement of the associate in respect of defined benefit schemes:
 2012 2011
 £’000 £’000
Interest on pension scheme liabilities  1,292 1,256
Expected return on pension scheme assets (1,171) (1,161)
 121 95
 
The Group’s share of the charge is recognised within the Income Statement through the share of post-tax profit in associate.
The Group’s share of the actuarial losses of £855,000 (2011: £55,000) have been reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Group’s share of the cumulative amount of actuarial losses of £8,508,000 (2011: £7,653,000) have been recognised in the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income.
Amounts included in the Balance Sheet of the associate:
 2012 2011
 £’000 £’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations (26,746) (24,570)
Fair value of scheme assets  22,091 20,091
Deficit in scheme (4,655) (4,479)
 
The Group’s share of the deficit is recognised within the Balance Sheet through the investment in associate. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 76
29 Retirement benefit obligation (continued)
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations:
 2012 2011
 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  24,570 25,143
Interest cost  1,292 1,256
Changes in assumptions underlying the defined benefit obligation  2,182 (796)
Benefits paid (1,298) (1,033)
At the end of the period  26,746 24,570
 
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets:
 Expected return Fair value of assets
  2012 2011 2012 2011
  % % £’000 £’000
Equity instruments 6.20 7.00  9,833 10,046
Debt instruments  3.76 4.79  11,012 10,045
Property 6.20 — 1,026 —
Other  2.50 — 220 —
  4.98 5.90 22,091 20,091
Actual return on scheme assets    2,498 310
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption, the Company considered the current level of expected returns on risk free 
investments (primarily government bonds), and in previous years, the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes 
in which the portfolio was invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then 
weighted based on the target asset allocation to develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio. This resulted 
in the selection of the 4.98% assumption for 2012 and 5.90% for 2011.
 2012 2011
 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  20,091 19,564
Expected return on scheme assets  1,171 1,161
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets  1,327 (851)
Contributions by employer  800 1,250
Benefits paid (1,298) (1,033)
At the end of the period  22,091 20,091
Analysis of the scheme assets, expected rate of return and actual return:
notes to the financial s tatements
continued Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 77
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
29 Retirement benefit obligation (continued)
History of scheme:
  2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Present value of the defined benefit  
  obligation  (26,746) (24,570) (25,143) (22,858) (21,896)
Fair value of scheme assets   22,091 20,091 19,564 17,903 19,254
Deficit  (4,655) (4,479) (5,579) (4,955) (2,642)
Difference between expected and 
  actual returns on scheme assets:
  Amount £’000   1,327 (851) 998 (2,060) (3,005)
  Percentage of scheme assets  6.0% 4.2% 5.1% 11.5% 15.6%
 
Gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
  Amount £’000  (2,182) 796 (2,042) (768) 570
  Percentage of scheme liabilities  8.2% 3.2% 8.1% 3.4% 2.6%
 
It is expected that contributions of approximately £800,000 will be paid to the defined benefit scheme in the next financial period.
30 Called-up share capital
  2012 2012 2011 2011
Group and Company Shares £’000 Shares £’000
Authorised:
  Ordinary shares of 25p each 14,000,000 3,500 14,000,000 3,500
Allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 25p each:   
  At start of period 8,863,056 2,216 8,784,286 2,196
  Allotment of shares 13,126 3 78,770 20
At end of period 8,876,182 2,219 8,863,056 2,216
The consideration received on the allotment of shares during the period was £62,000 (2011: £341,000)
For details of share based payment schemes see note 31.
Since the period end there was a further allotment of 174 shares with a nominal value of £44 due to the exercise of share options. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 78
31 Share-based payments 
Group
The Group operates three active share based payment schemes at 1 September 2012.
In 2011 the Group entered into a new 3-year and 5-year plan under the existing 2006 approved discretionary employee Share Save Scheme.
In 2008 the Group entered into a deferred bonus scheme (Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007). As part of this deferred bonus scheme the eligible 
individuals invest a proportion of their bonus into shares. Matching shares may be awarded after a period of three years if certain performance 
criteria are met. Individuals in the scheme may receive a maximum of one matching share for every share that they bought subject to the Group’s 
adjusted earnings per share over the period of three years ended 31 August 2010 equalling or exceeding the growth in the RPI over the same 
period by an average of 4% per annum. The award multiple will be reduced to 0.5 should the growth in adjusted earnings per share over the three 
years equal the growth in RPI by an average of 2% per annum. Should the Group’s adjusted earnings per share fall between the two threshold 
levels, referred to above, the award multiple will be measured on a straight-line basis between 0.5 and 1.
In 2006 the Group entered into three schemes, an HM Revenue and Customs approved discretionary employee share option scheme,  
an unapproved discretionary share option scheme and a share save scheme (comprising a 3-year and a 5-year plan).
Both the approved and unapproved share options were granted to certain senior employees and Directors. Options are exercisable between three 
and ten years from the date of grant, subject to the movement of the Group’s adjusted earnings per share over the three years to 31 August 2008 
exceeding that of the RPI by an average of 2% per annum.
All employees, subject to eligibility criteria, may participate in the share save scheme. Under this scheme employees are offered savings contracts 
for both 3 year and 5 year vesting period plans. The exercise period is 6 months from the vesting date.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of fair values are as follows:
    Approved and 
    Unapproved  
 Share Save Share Save Deferred Executive Share Share Save
 Scheme 2011 Scheme 2011 Bonus Scheme Option Scheme 2006
 (3-Year Plan) (5-Year Plan) 2007 Scheme 2006 (5-Year Plan)
Grant date (approved) 10/5/11 10/5/11 6/12/07 24/2/06 1/6/06
Grant date (unapproved) — — — 20/2/06 —
Share price at grant date (weighted average) £7.20 £7.20 £5.44 £4.78 £4.64 
Exercise price (weighted average) £5.72 £5.72 £0.25 £4.78 £4.79 
Number of employees 78 80 — 21 —
Shares under option (approved)  50,772 85,552 — 87,000 —
Shares under option (unapproved) — — — — —
Vesting period (years) 3 5 2.83 3 5
Model used for valuation Black Scholes Black Scholes Black Scholes Binomial Black Scholes
Expected volatility 25.00% 24.00% 22.00% 22.44% 21.37%
Option life (years) 3.5 5.5 2.92 10 5.5
Expected life (years) 3.25 5.25 2.83 6.5 5.25 
Risk-free rate 1.620% 2.450% 4.420% 4.224% 4.623%
Expected dividends expressed  
  as a dividend yield 3.90% 3.90% 3.30% 3.36% 3.56%
Expectations of vesting 95% 95% 100% 100% 0%
Expectations of meeting performance criteria  N/A N/A 100% 100% N/A 
Fair value per option £1.49 £1.56 £4.74 £0.99 £0.78
 
The expected volatility has been calculated using historical daily data over a term commensurate with the expected life of each option. The 
expected life is the midpoint of the exercise period. The risk-free rate of return is the implied yield of zero-coupon UK Government bonds with a 
remaining term equal to the expected term of the award being valued.
notes to the financial s tatements
continued Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 79
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
31 Share-based payments (continued)
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 3 Year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2012 2011
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 5.72 56 — —
Granted during the period — — 5.72 56
Forfeited during the period 5.72 (5) — —
Outstanding at the end of the period  5.72 51 5.72 56
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 2.25 years (2011: 3.25 years) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of 2 years (2011: 3 years).
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 5 Year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2012 2011
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (‘000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 5.72 90 — —
Granted during the period  — — 5.72 90
Forfeited during the period 5.72 (4) — —
Outstanding at the end of the period  5.72 86 5.72 90
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 4.25 years (2011: 5.25 years) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of 4 years (2011: 5 years).
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2012 2011
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period  — — 0.25 8
Exercised during the period — — 0.25 (8) 
Outstanding at the end of the period  — — — —
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
As the performance criterion under this Scheme was met, matching shares were awarded in the prior period. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 80
31 Share-based payments (continued)
Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006 
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2012 2011
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period  4.78 99 4.78 141
Exercised during the period 4.78 (12) 4.78 (42)
Outstanding at the end of the period  4.78 87 4.78 99
Exercisable at the end of the period  4.78 87 4.78 99
 
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 3.5 years (2011: 4.5 years) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of nil years (2011: 1 year).
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 5 Year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
notes to the financial s tatements 
continued
 2012 2011
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 4.79 2 4.79 50
Exercised during the period 4.79 (1) 4.79 (48)
Forfeited during the period 4.79 (1) 4.79 —
Outstanding at the end of the period — — 4.79 2
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — 4.79 2
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is nil years (2011: 0.25 years) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of nil years (2011: nil years).
The total expense recognised for the period arising from share based payments are as follows:
 2012 2011
 £’000 £’000
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 3 Year Plan 24 7
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 5 Year Plan 25 7
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 5 Year Plan — 7
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007 — 1
 49 22 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 81
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
31 Share-based payments (continued)
Company
The movement in the number of outstanding options under the share schemes for the company is not shown as it is immaterial and disclosure 
would be excessively lengthy.
The total expense recognised for the period arising from share based payments are as follows:
 2012 2011
 £’000 £’000
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 3 Year Plan   5 1
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 5 Year Plan   1 1
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007   — 1
     6 3
Share based payments awarded to employees of subsidiary undertakings and recognised as an investment in subsidiary undertakings in the  
Company are as follows:
 2012 2011
 £’000 £’000
Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006    80 92
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 3 Year Plan   24 6
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 5 Year Plan   30 7
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 5 Year Plan    — 1
Total carrying amount of investments   134 106
32 Acquisitions
Clive Walton Engineering Limited
On 25 May 2012 Carrs Engineering Limited acquired the entire issued share capital of Clive Walton Engineering Limited for cash consideration  
of £800,000.
The principal activity of Clive Walton Engineering Limited is that of precision engineering.
This purchase has been accounted for as an acquisition.
The primary reason for the business combination was that the acquired business complimented the existing engineering business enabling  
a wider set of skills to be offered to customers.
J L Marsden & Petsmart Limited t/a Laycocks
On 20 July 2012 Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited acquired the trade and net assets of Laycocks for a provisional cash consideration of 
£828,000 of which £735,000 was paid by 1 September 2012.
The principal activity of Laycocks is that of an agricultural merchant.
This purchase has been accounted for as an acquisition.
The primary reason for the business combination was the geographical expansion of the existing Agriculture business into Yorkshire. Synergies  
are expected following the rationalisation of the procurement and administration functions. 
Afgritech Limited
On 31 July 2012 Carrs Agriculture Limited acquired the trade and certain assets and liabilities of Afgritech Limited, a joint venture of the 
Group for cash consideration of £409,000.
The principal activity of Afgritech Limited is that of producing an ingredient of animal feed.
This purchase has been accounted for as an acquisition.
The primary reason for the business combination was to move the business from being jointly owned to wholly owned. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 82
32 Acquisitions (continued)
Aggregate disclosures
The total goodwill arising from acquisitions in the period amounts to £641,000. Goodwill reflects the value of the employees, which under IFRS 
should not be recorded as a separately identifiable intangible asset on the balance sheet, and anticipated synergy benefits arising from the 
acquisitions. Synergy benefits include the rationalisation of the procurement and administration functions. 
The following aggregated amounts have been recognised within the consolidated income statement in respect of acquisitions:
notes to the financial s tatements
continued
  £’000
Revenue     617
Profit before taxation     22
There were no other recognised gains and losses other than the profit shown above.
Related costs of the above acquisitions amounted to £20,000, which have been recognised within administrative expenses in the consolidated 
income statement.
The aggregate assets and liabilities acquired in the period are set out below:
  Fair value
  £’000
Intangible assets     184
Property, plant and equipment     532 
Inventories    491
Receivables     1,030 
Bank overdraft    (119)
Payables    (625)
Taxation    
 — Current    (56)
 — Deferred    (41)
Net assets acquired    1,396
Goodwill    641 
Satisfied by cash (of which £1,944,000 has been paid by 1 September 2012)     2,037
The table above includes the aggregate assets and liabilities acquired, and consideration paid, in respect of Laycocks which are provisional 
pending finalisation of completion accounts.
The aggregate gross contractual amounts receivable were £977,000.
Pro forma full year information
IFRS3 (revised) requires disclosure of information as to the impact on the financial statements if acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of the 
accounting period.
The unaudited pro forma summary below presents the Group as if all acquisitions in the period had been acquired on 4 September 2011.
The pro forma amounts include the results of the acquisitions and the interest expense on the increase in net debt as a result of the acquisitions. 
The pro forma amounts do not include any possible synergies from the acquisition. The pro forma information is provided for comparative purposes 
only and does not necessarily reflect the actual results that would have occurred, nor is it necessarily indicative of future results of operations of the 
combined businesses.
Continuing operations  £’000
Revenue     408,101
Profit before taxation     13,220 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 83
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
33 Cash generated from/(used in) continuing operations 
 Group Company
  2012 2011 2012 2011
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit for the period from continuing operations 10,105 8,037 508 21,149
Adjustments for:
Tax   2,954 1,973 (107) 92
Dividends received from subsidiaries  — — (2,220) (22,377)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 4,165 3,923 — —
Impairment of property, plant and equipment — 324 — —
Amounts written off property, plant and equipment 1 28 — —
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (153) (10) — —
Depreciation of investment property 20 20 — —
Profit on disposal of investment property (45) — — —
Intangible asset amortisation  492 480 — —
Intangible asset impairment — 325 — —
Profit on disposal of investment (107) (2) (107) —
Profit on disposal of trade — (190) — —
Impairment of investment — — 415 —
Loan forgiven in the period — (40) 13 —
Amortisation of grants (50) — — —
Net fair value loss on share based payments  49 20 6 3
Net foreign exchange differences  138 18 183 35
Net fair value losses on derivative financial instruments 
  in operating profit 309 — 70 —
Finance costs:
  Interest income (673) (410) (841) (516)
  Interest expense and borrowing costs  1,403 1,424 583 674
Share of profit from associate and joint ventures  (1,381) (1,776) — —
IAS19 income statement credit in respect of employer 
  contributions (note 29) (3,772) (4,801) (3,772) (4,801)
IAS19 income statement charge (note 29) 477 742 477 742
Changes in working capital (excluding the effects of 
  acquisitions and disposal):
Increase in inventories (3,868) (205) — —
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (896) (14,591) (147) 110
Increase/(decrease) in payables 2,806 18,808 (379) 1,257
Cash generated from/(used in) continuing operations 11,974 14,097 (5,318) (3,632) Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 84
  At  Other  At
  4 September  non-cash Exchange 1 September
  2011 Cash flow changes movements 2012
Company  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents   28,284 (5,390) — (158) 22,736
Loans and other borrowings: 
  — current  (18,520) 555 7,415 121 (10,429)
  — non-current  — — (7,470) — (7,470)
Net cash  9,764 (4,835) (55) (37) 4,837
 
Other non-cash changes relate to the release of deferred borrowing costs to the consolidated income statement and transfers between categories  
of borrowings.
35 Capital Commitments
 2012 2011
Group £’000 £’000
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment that has been contracted 
  for but has not been provided for in the accounts    8,985 —
The Company has no capital commitments (2011: nil).
notes to the financial s tatements
continued
34 Analysis of net cash/(net debt)
  At  Other  At
  4 September  non-cash Exchange 1 September
  2011 Cash flow changes movements 2012
Group  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents   33,282 (9,988) — — 23,294
Bank overdrafts  (833) 587 — (172) (418)
  32,449 (9,401) — (172) 22,876
Loans and other borrowings: 
  — current  (24,931) 4,652 7,415 — (12,864)
  — non-current   (1,225) (1,750) (7,470) — (10,445)
 
Finance leases: 
  — current  (672) 940 (1,162) — (894)
  — non-current  (1,049) — (79) — (1,128)
Net cash/(net debt)   4,572 (5,559) (1,296) (172) (2,455)
 Other non-cash changes relate to finance leases, including finance leases acquired with subsidiaries, and transfers between categories of 
borrowings. It also includes the release of deferred borrowing costs to the consolidated income statement.  Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 85
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
36 Other Financial Commitments 
Group
At 1 September 2012 the Group had commitments, other than land and buildings, under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
 2012 2011
 £’000 £’000
Within one year  514 409
Within two and five years inclusive  1,007 753
After five years  30 1
 1,551 1,163
The Company has no commitments under non-cancellable operating leases (2011: nil).
37 Financial guarantees
 The Company, together with certain subsidiary undertakings, has entered into a guarantee with Clydesdale Bank PLC in respect of the Group 
loans, overdraft and guarantee facilities with that bank, which at 1 September 2012 amounted to £8,776,000 (2011: £3,996,000).
 The Company, together with certain subsidiary undertakings, has a Xnil (2011: X125,000) letter of credit by Clydesdale Bank PLC in favour of 
Crystalyx Products GmbH, a joint venture arrangement.
 The Company, together with certain subsidiary undertakings, had entered into a guarantee with Royal Bank of Scotland PLC in respect  
of an overdraft with that bank. Due to a change in finance provider during the period this guarantee does not exist at 1 September 2012  
(2011: £641,000). 
Certain subsidiary undertakings utilise guarantee facilities with financial institutions which include their own bankers. These financial institutions 
in the normal course of business enter into certain specific guarantees with some of the subsidiaries’ customers. All these guarantees allow the 
financial institutions to have recourse to the subsidiaries if a guarantee is enforced. The total outstanding of such guarantees at 1 September 2012 
was £3,977,000 (2011: £6,563,000).
The Company has provided specific guarantees to certain customers of a subsidiary. These are in place to guarantee the completion of the 
contract in any event. At 1 September 2012 the contracts under guarantee that have still to be completed have a total contract value of  
£377,000 (2011: £1,814,000).
 The Company has entered into a guarantee with the Trustees of the Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme in respect of the punctual 
payment of obligations due to the pension scheme by the participating employers of the scheme. The Company’s total liability shall not exceed  
£1,500,000 (2011: £1,500,000).
 The Group and Company does not expect any of the above guarantees to be called in. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 86
notes to the financial s tatements
continued
  Company
    2012 2011
    £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings:
Loans    17,484 16,943
Other receivables   22 38
    17,506 16,981
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings:
Loans    (9,624) (4,520)
Other payables    (46) (379)
    (9,670) (4,899)
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Management charges receivable   1,688 2,669
Dividends received    2,220 22,377
Interest receivable    342 295
Interest payable    (115) (68)
38 Related parties 
Group and Company
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, associate and joint ventures and with its Directors. The balances and transactions 
shown below were all undertaken on an arm’s length basis in the normal course of business.
Transactions with key management personnel
Key management personnel are considered to be the Directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
 Group Company
  2012 2011 2012 2011
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts owed by key management personnel 
 (in a trading capacity):  
Trade receivables 95 137 — —
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Revenue  626 772 — —
Purchases (5) (8) — —
During the period the Group incurred recruitment related costs in respect of Neil Austin, who will be appointed Finance Director upon 
Ron Wood’s retirement.
Transactions with subsidiaries Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 87
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
38 Related parties (continued)
Transactions with associate
 Group Company
  2012 2011 2012 2011
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts owed by associate:
Trade and other receivables  185 43 2 —
Amounts owed to associate:
Trade and other payables (13,888) (10,777) — (3)
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Revenue  563 461 — —
Rental income  19 18 — —
Management charges receivable 60 57 15 15
Management charges payable (67) (64) — —
Purchases (89,762) (85,789) — —
Transactions with joint ventures
 Group Company
  2012 2011 2012 2011
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts owed by joint ventures:
Trade and other receivables 2,327 1,765 1,927 1,353
Amounts owed to joint ventures:
Trade and other payables (13) (13) — (13)
Included within Group trade and other receivables is £2,224,000 (2011: £1,725,000) in respect of loans owed by joint ventures. The loan balance for 
the current period is stated after the recognition of the cumulative losses of £410,000 on the three US joint ventures (note 16).
Included within Company trade and other receivables is £1,916,000 (2011: £1,350,000 ) in respect of loans owed by joint ventures.
 Group Company
  2012 2011 2012 2011
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
 
Revenue 91 91 — —
Management charges receivable 100 58 — —
Transactions with other related parties
Other loans of £1,225,000 (2011: £1,225,000) included within non-current borrowings is in respect of a loan from Edward Billington and Son Limited 
to Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited. This loan is interest free, unsecured, and has no set repayment date. Edward Billington and Son 
Limited has a 49% shareholding in Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 88
five yeaR s tatement
Continuing operations  2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Revenue and Results  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue   372,307 350,023 298,110 373,318 404,058
Group operating profit   12,875 7,295 7,445 9,156 12,071
Analysed as:
Operating profit before non-recurring items 12,814 7,295 7,445 9,907 12,307
Non-recurring items  61 — — (751) (236)
Group operating profit    12,875 7,295 7,445 9,156 12,071
Profit on the disposal of property and investment — — — — 282
Finance income  454 211 404 410 673
Finance costs  (2,061) (1,522) (1,224) (1,332) (1,348)
Share of post-tax profit in associate 
  and joint ventures  1,590 1,051 799 1,776 1,381
Profit before taxation   12,858 7,035 7,424 10,010 13,059
Taxation  (4,605) (1,829) (1,663) (1,973) (2,954)
Profit for the period from continuing operations 8,253 5,206 5,761 8,037 10,105
Profit for the period from discontinued operations — — 1,074 16,598 (202)
Profit for the period  8,253 5,206 6,835 24,635 9,903
Ratios (continuing operations)
Operating margin (excluding non-recurring items) 3.4% 2.1% 2.5% 2.7% 3.0%
Return on net assets (excluding non-recurring items)  46.4% 21.1% 18.9% 17.1% 19.2%
Earnings per share — basic  92.7p 50.4p 51.9p 77.0p 98.2p 
  — adjusted  108.6p 51.0p 53.5p 88.4p 101.5p
Dividends per ordinary share  23.0p 23.0p 24.0p 26.0p 29.0p
Revenue and results for years ended 2008 and 2009 include the revenue and results from the fertiliser blending operations which were disposed of 
in the prior period. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 89
Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
  2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Net assets employed  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill    1,381 1,654 4,336 4,558 5,199
Other intangible assets    294 764 1,362 1,029 728
Property, plant and equipment    28,596 31,764 32,588 31,519 37,158
Investment property   737 718 699 764 1,005
Investments    4,530 4,626 5,018 6,832 8,081
Financial assets
— Derivative financial instruments   — — — — —
— Non-current receivables    50 53 5 2 2
Deferred tax assets    5,318 5,015 3,924 2,519 2,480
   40,906 44,594 47,932 47,223 54,653
Current assets
Inventories    31,014 23,860 27,015 22,793 27,128
Trade and other receivables    50,754 43,059 48,810 56,988 59,651
Current tax assets    65 119 303 9 —
Financial assets
— Derivative financial instruments  927 16 — — —
— Cash and cash equivalents   3,896 10,304 13,695 33,282 23,294
  86,656 77,358 89,823 113,072 110,073
Total assets    127,562 121,952 137,755 160,295 164,726
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
— Borrowings  (15,004) (10,226) (11,478) (26,436) (14,176)
— Derivative financial instruments  (22) (43) (127) — (309)
Trade and other payables  (52,977) (35,928) (49,468) (53,469) (56,108)
Current tax liabilities  (2,054) (708) (1,129) (1,688) (1,552)
  (70,057) (46,905) (62,202) (81,593) (72,145)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
— Borrowings  (6,325) (19,403) (17,732) (2,274) (11,573)
— Derivative financial instruments  (14) — — — —
Retirement benefit obligation   (16,558) (14,673) (10,745) (5,960) (5,351)
Deferred tax liabilities  (4,775) (4,840) (4,960) (4,007) (3,733)
Other non-current liabilities  (2,237) (2,834) (2,797) (3,617) (4,064)
  (29,909) (41,750) (36,234) (15,858) (24,721)
Total liabilities  (99,966) (88,655) (98,436) (97,451) (96,866)
Net assets   27,596 33,297 39,319 62,844 67,860 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 90
company numbeR: 98221
c aRR’s millinG inDustRies plc notice of annual GeneR al meetinG
Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and fourth annual general 
meeting of the Company will be held at the Crown Hotel, Wetheral, 
Carlisle on Tuesday 8 January, 2013 at 11.30 a.m. for the following 
purposes:
Ordinary Business
1. To receive the Company’s annual accounts for the financial year 
ended 1 September 2012 together with the directors’ report and 
the auditor’s report on those accounts.
2. To declare a final dividend of 14.5p per share for the year ended  
1 September 2012.
3. To re-elect A R Heygate who retires in accordance with best 
practice under the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010.
4. To re-elect Lord Inglewood, who retires by rotation until 28 February 
2013.
5. To re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Auditors of the 
Company.
6. To authorise the Audit Committee of the Board to determine the 
remuneration of the auditors.
7. To approve the directors’ remuneration report for the financial year 
ended 1 September 2012.
Special Business
8. To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which 
will be proposed as an ordinary resolution:
 “THAT, in substitution for all existing and unexercised authorities 
and powers, the directors of the company be and they are hereby 
generally and unconditionally authorised for the purpose of section 
551 of the Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”) to exercise all or any 
of the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities to such 
persons at such times and generally on such terms and conditions 
as the directors may determine (subject always to the Articles of 
Association of the Company) provided that:
a. the maximum nominal amount of such securities which may  
be allotted under this authority is £732,299; and
b. this authority shall, unless previously renewed, varied or 
revoked by the Company in general meeting, expire at the 
conclusion of the next annual general meeting or on the date 
which is 6 months after the next accounting reference date of 
the Company (if earlier) save that the directors of the Company 
may, before the expiry of such period, make an offer or 
agreement which would or might require relevant securities to 
be allotted after the expiry of such period and the directors of 
the Company may allot relevant securities in pursuance of  
such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby 
had not expired.”
9. To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which 
will be proposed as a special resolution:
 “THAT, subject to and conditional upon the passing of the 
resolution numbered 9 in the notice convening the meeting at 
which this resolution was proposed and in substitution for all 
existing and unexercised authorities and powers, the Directors  
of the Company be and are hereby empowered pursuant to  
section 570-573 of the Act to allot equity securities pursuant to  
the authority conferred upon them by resolution 9 as if section  
561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that 
this authority and power shall be limited to:
a. the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights 
issue or similar offer in favour of ordinary shareholders where 
the equity securities respectively attributable to the interest of  
all other shareholders are proportionate (as nearly as may be)  
to the respective number of ordinary shares held by them 
subject only to such exclusion or other arrangements as the 
directors of the Company may consider appropriate to deal 
with fractional entitlements or legal and practical difficulties 
under the laws of, or the requirements of any recognised 
regulatory body in any, territory; and
b. The allotment (otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) 
above) of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount 
of £110,954 representing approximately 5% of the current 
issued share capital of the Company, and shall expire on the 
date of the next annual general meeting of the Company or  
(if earlier) the date which is 6 months after the next accounting 
reference date of the Company, save that the Company may 
before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or 
might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry 
and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of 
such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had 
not expired.”
10. To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which 
will be proposed as a special resolution:
 “THAT, the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally 
authorised to make market purchases (within the meaning of 
section 693 of the Act) of Ordinary Shares provided that:
a. the maximum number of Ordinary Shares which may be 
purchased is 887,636 (representing 10% of the Company’s 
issued share capital);
b. the minimum price which may be paid for each Ordinary Share 
is 25p;
c. the maximum price which may be paid for each Ordinary Share 
is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle 
market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from  
the Daily Official List of London Stock Exchange plc for the  
5 business days immediately preceding the day on which  
the Ordinary Share in question is purchased;
d. unless previously revoked or varied, the authority hereby 
conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual 
general meeting of the Company to be held in 2013 or, if earlier, 
on the date which is 12 months after the date of the passing of 
this resolution; and
e. the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase 
Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to 
the expiry of such authority which contract or contracts will 
or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such 
authority, and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares in 
pursuance of any such contract or contracts.”
11. To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which 
will be proposed as a special resolution:
 “THAT a general meeting other than an annual general meeting 
may be called on not less than 14 clear days’ notice.”
12. To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which 
will be proposed as an ordinary resolution:
 “THAT the Directors be authorised to establish The Carr’s Milling 
Industries Long Term Incentive Plan 2013 (the “LTIP”), a copy of the 
draft rules of which has been produced to the meeting and initialled 
by the Chairman (for the purpose of identification only) and a 
summary of the main provisions of which is set out in the Appendix 
to the Notice of AGM of Carr’s Milling Industries PLC to be held 
on 8 January 2013, and to do all such acts and things as may be 
necessary or expedient to give effect to the LTIP .”
By Order Of The Board
Ron Wood Old Croft
Company Secretary Stanwix 
16 November 2012 Carlisle
 CA3 9BA
  Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 91
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 
Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle, 
Cumbria CA3 9BA 
Tel: 01228 554600   
Fax: 01228 554601 
Website: www.carrs-milling.com
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc 
East Highway 212,  
PO Box 188, Belle Fourche,  
South Dakota 57717 USA 
Tel: 00 1 605 892 3421  
Fax: 00 1 605 892 3473
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc 
PO Box 105,  
101 Roanoke Avenue, Poteau, 
Oklahoma 74953 USA 
Tel: 00 1 918 647 8133  
Fax: 00 1 918 647 7318
Caltech 
Solway Mills, Silloth, Wigton, 
Cumbria CA7 4AJ 
Tel: 016973 32592   
Fax: 016973 32339
Scotmin
13 Whitfield Drive,  
Heathfield Ind Est, Ayr  
KA8 9RX 
Tel: 01292 280 909  
Fax: 01292 280 919
Aminomax 
Old Croft 
Stanwix, Carlisle  
Tel: 01228 554 600  
Fax: 01228 554 601 
Gold-Bar Feed Supplements 
LLC*
783 Eagle Boulevard, Shelbyville,
TN 37160, USA
Tel: 00 1 877 618 6455
Fax: 00 1 877 618 6489 
Crystalyx Products GmbH* 
Am Stau 199-203, 26122, 
Oldenburg, Germany 
Tel: 00 49 441 2188 92142  
Fax: 00 49 441 2188 92177
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Operations)** 
Parkhill Road, Kingstown Ind Est, 
Carlisle CA03 0EX 
Tel: 01228 529 021  
Fax: 01228 554 397 
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Operations)** 
Lansil Way, 
Lancaster LA1 3QY
Tel: 01524 597 200  
Fax: 01524 597 229
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Operations)** 
High Mill, Langwathby, 
Penrith CA10 1NB
Tel: 01768 889 800  
Fax: 01768 889 887
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Operations)** 
Cold Meece, 
Stone ST15 0QW
Tel: 01785 760 535  
Fax: 01785 760 888
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Annan 
25 High Street, Annan, 
Dumfriesshire DG12 6AE 
Tel: 01461 202 772  
Fax: 01461 202 712 
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Appleby
Crosscroft Industrial Estate, 
Appleby,
Cumbria CA16 6HX
Tel: 01768 352 999
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Askrigg
Uredale Mill, Askrigg, Leyburn, 
North Yorkshire DL8 7HZ
Tel: 01969 650 229
Fax: 01969 650 770
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Barnard Castle 
Montalbo Road, Barnard Castle, 
Co Durham DL12 8ED 
Tel: 01833 637 537  
Fax: 01833 638 010
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Bakewell
Unit 4, Station Road Industrial 
Estate, Bakewell, Derbyshire  
DE45 1GE
Tel: 01629 814 126
Fax: 01629 814 804
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Berwick upon Tweed 
Highgate Works, Tweedmouth,
Berwick upon Tweed, 
Northumberland
TD15 2AP 
Tel: 01289 307 245  
Fax: 01289 305 727
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Brock 
Brockholes Way,  
Claughton Trading Estate, 
Lancaster Old Road, 
Claughton on Brock,  
Preston PR3 0PZ 
Tel: 01995 643 200  
Fax: 01995 643 220
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Carlisle 
Montgomery Way, Rosehill 
Estate, Carlisle CA1 2UY 
Tel: 01228 520 212  
Fax: 01228 817 800
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Cockermouth 
Unit 5, Lakeland Agricultural 
Centre, Cockermouth  
CA13 0QQ 
Tel: 01900 824 105  
Fax: 01900 826 860
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Gisburn 
Pendle Mill, Mill Lane, Gisburn, 
Clitheroe, Lancashire BB7 4ES 
Tel: 01200 445 491
Fax: 01200 445 305
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Hawes 
Burtersett Road, Hawes,  
North Yorkshire DL8 3NP 
Tel: 01969 667 334  
Fax: 01969 667 335 
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Hexham 
Tyne Mills Industrial Estate, 
Hexham, Northumberland  
NE46 1XL 
Tel: 01434 605 371  
Fax: 01434 608 938 
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Jedburgh 
Mounthooly, Crailing,
Jedburgh, TD8 6TJ 
Tel: 01835 850250   
Fax: 01835 850748
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Kendal 
Unit 1 Moss End, Crooklands, 
Milnthorpe, Cumbria 
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Leek 
Macclesfield Road, Leek, 
Staffordshire ST13 8NR 
Tel: 01538 383 277
Fax: 01538 385 731
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), t/a Laycocks, Malton 
Unit 1 The Pyramid Estate, 
Showfield Lane, Malton,  
North Yorkshire YO17 6BT 
Tel: 01653 600 328
Fax: 01653 690 338
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Milnathort 
Stirling Road, Milnathort,  
Kinross KY13 9UZ   
Tel: 01577 862 381  
Fax: 01577 863 057
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Morpeth 
20c Coopies Lane Industrial 
Estate, Morpeth, Northumberland 
NE61 6JN 
Tel: 01670 503 930  
Fax: 01670 504 404
 
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Penrith
Haweswater Road, 
Penrith Industrial Estate, Penrith
Cumbria CA11 9EH
Tel: 01768 862 160
Fax: 01768 899 345 
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Perth 
Highland House,  
St Catherine’s Road,  
Perth PH1 5YA 
Tel: 01738 643 022
Fax: 01738 643 022
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Selkirk 
The Old Pump House,  
Dunsdale Road, Selkirk,
Selkirkshire TD7 5EB 
Tel: 01750 720 734  
Fax: 01750 722 725
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), t/a Laycocks, Settle 
Unit 6 The Sidings Industrial 
Estate, Settle, North Yorkshire 
BD24 9RP 
Tel: 01729 825 812  
Fax: 01729 825 812
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), t/a Laycocks, Skipton 
Laycock House, Skipton Auction 
Market, Skipton,  
North Yorkshire BD23 1UD 
Tel: 01756 792 166
Fax: 01756 701 008
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Spennymoor
Southend Works, Byers Green, 
Spennymoor, Co. Durham,
DL16 7NL
Tel: 01388 662 266
Fax: 01388 603 743
DiRectoR y of opeR ations Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 92
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Stirling
Stirling Agricultural Centre, 
Stirling FK9 4RN
Tel: 01786 474 826
Fax: 01786 472 933
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Wooler 
Bridge End, South Road, 
Wooler,Northumberland,  
NE71 6QE 
Tel: 01668 281 567  
Fax: 01668 283 453
Safe at Work 
Kingstown Broadway, Kingstown 
Industrial Estate, Carlisle CA3 
0HA 
Tel: 01228 591091   
Fax: 01228 590026
Wallace Oils, Carlisle 
Kingstown Broadway, Kingstown 
Industrial Estate, Carlisle CA3 
0HA 
Tel: 01228 534 342  
Fax: 01228 590 820
Johnstone Wallace Fuels, 
Castle Douglas
Abercromby Industrial Park,
Castle Douglas, Dumfriesshire
DG7 1BA
Johnstone Wallace Fuels, 
Dumfries
Dargavel Stores,
Lockerbie Road, Dumfries,
Dumfriesshire DG1 3PG
Tel: 01387 750 747
Fax: 01387 750 747
Johnstone Wallace Fuels, 
Stranraer 
Droughduil, Dunragit, 
Stranraer DG9 8QA 
Tel:  01581 400 356
Fax: 01581 400 356
Wälischmiller Engineering 
GmbH
Schießstattweg 16
88677 Markdorf
Germany
Tel: 0049 7544 95140
Fax: 0049 7544 951499
Carr’s Flour, Silloth 
Solway Mills, Silloth, Wigton, 
Cumbria CA7 4AJ 
Tel: 01697 333 700  
Fax: 01697 332 543 
Carr’s Flour, Maldon 
Station Road, Maldon,  
Essex CM9 4LQ 
Tel: 01621 852 696  
Fax: 01621 854 525
Carr’s Flour, Scotland 
East Bridge, Kirkcaldy,  
Fife KY1 2SR 
Tel: 01592 267 191  
Fax: 01592 641 805
John Stronach 
Solway Mills, Silloth, Wigton, 
Cumbria CA7 4AJ 
Tel: 01697 331 456  
Fax: 01697 332 808 
Silloth Storage Company*
Station Road, Silloth,
Wigton, Cumbria
CA7 4JQ
* joint venture company
** associate company
Afgritech LLC*
200 Willow Street, Watertown,
New York 13601, USA
Tel: 00 1 315 785 3625
Fax: 00 1 315 785 3627
Afgritech Properties LLC*
200 Willow Street, Watertown,
New York 13601, USA
Tel: 00 1 315 785 3625
Fax: 00 1 315 785 3627
Bibby Agriculture* 
Drive House, St. David’s Park,  
Job’s Well Road, Carmarthen,
SA31 3HB 
Tel: 01267 232 041  
Fax: 01267 232 374 
Bibby Agriculture* 
1A Network House 
Badgers Way 
Oxon Business Park 
Shrewsbury, Shropshire 
SY3 5AB 
Tel: 01743 237 890  
Fax: 01743 351 552
 
Bendalls   
Brunthill Road, 
Kingstown Industrial Estate, 
Carlisle CA3 0EH 
Tel: 01228 526 246  
Fax: 01228 525 634 
R Hind    
Kingstown Broadway,  
Kingstown Industrial Estate, 
Carlisle CA3 0HA 
Tel: 01228 523 647  
Fax: 01228 512 712 
Carrs MSM   
Unit 1 Spitfire Way, 
Hunts Rise, 
South Marston Park, 
Swindon, Wiltshire SN3 4TX 
Tel: 01793 824 891 
Fax: 01793 824 894
DiRectoR y of opeR ations
continued Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London.  www.corporateprm.co.uk
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC (“Carr’s”)  
is focussed on the principal activities of 
agriculture, food and engineering.
The Group’s agriculture business comprises 
retailing of farm machinery/supplies and animal feed 
manufacture in the UK, US and Germany.
Carr’s principal food business is flour milling based  
in three UK locations.
Engineering comprises Bendalls, R Hind and  
Carrs MSM in the UK and Wälischmiller in  
Southern Germany.
OVERVIEW
Financial and 2012 Highlights 01
Chairman’s Statement 02
BUSINESS REVIEW
Chief Executive’s Review 04
Financial Review 12
Board of Directors 15
Registered Office and Advisers 15
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Risk Management 16
Corporate Responsibility 18
Report of the Directors 20
Corporate Governance 25
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Directors’ Remuneration Report 28
Independent Auditors’ Report 31
Consolidated Income Statement 32
Consolidated and Company Statements of 
Comprehensive Income 33
Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets 34
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 35
Company Statement of Changes in Equity 36
Consolidated and Company Statements of 
Cash Flows 37
Principal Accounting Policies 38
Notes to the Financial Statements 43
Five Year Statement 88
Notice of Annual General Meeting 90 
Directory of Operations 91 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC  Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts
2012
Building on our
success
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Old Croft, Stanwix 
Carlisle CA3 9BA
www.carrs-milling.com
