 NEW HORIZONS FOR GROWTH
AGRICULTURE / FOOD / ENGINEERING
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC  
IS FOCUSSED ON THE PRINCIPAL  
ACTIVITIES OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD  
AND ENGINEERING.
The Group’s agriculture business comprises retailing of farm machinery/supplies  
and animal feed manufacture in the UK, USA and Germany.
Carr’s principal food business is flour milling based in three UK locations.
Engineering comprises Carrs MSM, Bendalls and R Hind in the UK and Wälischmiller  
in Southern Germany.
OVERVIEW
01 Financial and 2013 Highlights
02  Chairman’s Statement
BUSINESS REVIEW
04  Chief Executive’s Review
08  International Map
09  Case Studies
12  Financial Review
15  The Board
15  Registered Office and Advisers
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
16  Risk Management
18  Corporate Responsibility
20  Report of the Directors
23  Corporate Governance
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27  Directors’ Remuneration Report
31  Independent Auditors’ Report
32  Consolidated Income Statement
33   Consolidated and Company Statements of 
Comprehensive Income
34  Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets
35  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
36  Company Statement of Changes in Equity
37  Consolidated and Company Statements of Cash Flows
38  Principal Accounting Policies
43  Notes to the Financial Statements
80  Five Year Statement
82  Directory of Operations OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
01
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
2013 Highlights
•  Commissioning of the flour mill at Kirkcaldy •  Upgraded agriculture retail network
•  New AminoMax
®
 facility opened in UK • V1000 prototype developed at Wälischmiller
•  Geographical expansion of feed block business in USA
Financial Highlights
REVENUE 
£468.1m
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 
£15.9m
EARNINGS PER SHARE 
128.7p
DIVIDEND PER SHARE 
32.0p
2013 £468.1m
2013 £15.9m
2013 128.7p
2012 £404.1m
2012 £13.1m
2012 98.2p
2011 £373.3m
2011 £10.0m
2011 77.0p
2010 £298.1m
2010 £7.4m
2010 51.9p
2009 £306.9m
2009 £8.5m
2009 69.5p
2013 32.0p
2012 29.0p
2011 26.0p
2010 24.0p
2009 23.0p
The above revenue and results exclude those of the fertiliser business. 02
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
CHRIS HOLMES  
CHAIRMAN
This commitment from the team, combined 
with the performance of the Group’s strategic 
investments in joint ventures and associate, 
resulted in a 21.5% increase in profit before tax. 
Our international operations contributed 46.6% 
of the Group’s profit before tax. 
During the year the Group further capitalised on 
its well invested assets, expanded trading with 
new customers and formed new collaborations 
with a view to further geographical and product 
expansion. “A perfect storm” of weather 
conditions, with a wet summer in 2012 followed 
by a long winter lasting through to Easter 2013 
in the UK and widespread droughts covering 
the majority of the USA in 2012, supported the 
strong performance of our Agriculture and Food 
divisions. The Engineering division, particularly 
Carrs MSM and Wälischmiller, continued to 
perform well due to our innovative product 
offering and on-going development in new 
technologies.
STRATEGy
Our strategic vision is to be recognised as a 
truly international business at the forefront of 
innovation and technology across Agriculture, 
Food and Engineering. The way in which we 
achieve this must reflect changes in markets 
and customers, together with a constant 
assessment of returns for shareholders.
REVIEW OF THE yEAR
Ron Wood retired as Group Finance Director on  
30 April, and I stepped down as Chief Executive 
on 28 February, taking over as Chairman from 
Lord Inglewood, who retired on the same date.  
I am pleased to confirm that Tim Davies, who 
was appointed as our new Chief Executive 
Officer on 1 March, and Neil Austin, our new 
Group Finance Director, have got off to a strong 
start, building on the established foundations 
and driving the Group forward. I am sure 
that this very strong team will help to ensure 
continuing growth across the Group’s three 
divisions. 
In spite of these significant changes, I am 
pleased to report that the Group achieved a 
record profit for the year, building on last year’s 
success. This success can be attributed to 
strong operational performance, on-going pursuit 
of our strategic aims, benefits from innovation 
and the investments that we’ve made, as well 
as assistance from adverse weather conditions, 
particularly in the UK and the USA.
All divisions exceeded budget expectations 
demonstrating management’s ability to adapt to 
changing environments, as well as continuing to 
provide our high quality products and excellent 
customer service, whilst also pursuing new 
opportunities through geographical expansion 
and product development. 
Our aim for this year and beyond is to 
continue to innovate and drive growth and 
customer service excellence. To achieve this 
we are looking at further product research and 
development and the continued search for 
complementary acquisitions.
EMPLOyEES
The success of the Group would not be possible 
without management implementing strategy 
and our employees adopting our “can do” 
culture, alongside their own desire to see the 
Group succeed. Despite the global nature of 
our business, all our employees have embraced 
our culture, and on behalf of the Board I would 
like to thank all of them for their continued 
dedication and effort throughout a very busy 
year.
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Revenue for the period increased by 15.8% to 
£468.1 million (2012: £404.1 million). Profit 
before tax was up 21.5% to £15.9 million 
(2012: £13.1 million).
Basic earnings per share for the period  
were up by 31.1% to 128.7 pence (2012:  
98.2 pence) with fully diluted earnings per 
share of 126.4 pence (2012: 97.5 pence) and 
adjusted earnings per share of 128.7 pence 
(2012: 101.5 pence).
Net cash generated from operating activities 
was £4.0 million (2012: £8.3 million). At the 
end of the period the Group had net debt of 
£22.1 million compared to net debt of £2.5 
million at 1 September 2012. This increase 
in net debt largely reflected total capital 
expenditure during the period of £19.1 million, 
of which £9.2 million was subsequently 
refinanced on a long term finance lease, and  
we continue to operate with ample headroom. 
Working capital increased by £9.0 million 
and contributions to the deficit in the pension 
scheme totalled £2.9 million.
During the year the Group extended its 
revolving credit facility from £10.0 million to 
£15.0 million, and with the exception of the 
bank overdraft facility of £5.0 million, which 
is renewed annually, the other facilities are 
committed through to November 2014. 
Even after a period of substantial capital 
investment, our gearing and interest cover 
This has been an exciting year of transition for Carr’ s with  
a number of senior Board changes made, underpinned by 
another strong trading performance.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 03
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
remain well within our conservative levels.  
This sound financial position means that Carr’s 
is well placed to continue to make strategic 
investments to drive growth in our businesses.
DIVIDEND
The Board is proposing a 13.8% increase in 
the final dividend to 16.5 pence per ordinary 
share, which together with the two interim 
dividends of 7.75 pence per share each, paid 
in May and October 2013, make a total of 32.0 
pence per share for the year (2012: 29.0 pence 
per share). The final dividend, if approved by 
shareholders, will be paid on 17 January 2014 
to shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 20 December 2013 and the shares 
will go ex-dividend on 18 December 2013.
BOARD COMPOSITION AND CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
I was delighted that the Board requested that 
on Tim Davies’ appointment as Chief Executive, 
I take over as Chairman, initially in an Executive 
capacity before becoming Non-Executive 
Chairman on 1 August. All the Board changes 
have been effected very smoothly, assisted by 
the continuing Non-Executive Directors Alistair 
Wannop and Robert Heygate, along with the 
senior management across the Group.
The Company takes its corporate governance 
responsibilities very seriously and a full report on 
Corporate Governance is on pages 23 to 26. 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
Lord Inglewood for his contribution as both 
a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of 
the Company through many successful and 
challenging years. I would also like to thank 
Ron Wood for his commitment and dedication 
to the Company over 25 years. It was a great 
pleasure to work with Ron and, with his support 
and financial tenacity, grow the business to 
the success it has become and will no doubt 
continue to be.
OUTLOOk The current financial year has got off to a  
strong start. The investments that we have 
made across the Group in terms of acquisitions, 
organic growth, and in our people are all making 
a contribution to the year’s performance.
While the weather conditions that provided 
“the perfect storm” are unlikely to be repeated, 
the Agriculture division will benefit from the 
investment in the expansion of the UK and 
USA AminoMax
®
 facilities. The expansion of 
operations in the USA, with the new business 
in Silver Springs, Nevada, and the joint 
venture operation at Iowa, will provide greater 
geographical coverage in the USA, and expand 
our existing customer network.
Following the commissioning of our 
new Kirkcaldy flour mill, further margin 
improvement is expected in this and future 
years. The Board is confident in achieving the 
financial benefits, operational efficiencies and 
input savings as expected. 
Development of Wälischmiller’s new factory 
and office facilities in Markdorf, Germany 
are due for completion in December and the 
technologically advanced operations will benefit 
from this investment, ensuring enhanced 
production efficiencies. This, coupled with 
on-going product development, provides us with 
exciting opportunities in the short to medium 
term. However, the associated one-off relocation 
costs, coupled with the decrease in nuclear 
work for the UK businesses, are expected to 
result in a reduced level of profitability  
from this division compared to the  
current year.
The Group remains ideally placed to  
capitalise on future opportunities,  
with a strong balance sheet and well  
invested assets. The Board will continue  
to look at how best to achieve its  
strategic aims and achieve optimal  
returns for its shareholders.
CHRIS HOLMES
Chairman
15 November 2013
The Group achieved  
record profit for the  
year, building on last  
year’s success. 04
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
REVIEW
TIM DAVIES
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
In addition, we will continue to assess potential 
acquisitions to establish if they complement the 
business, support our growth plans, further our 
strategic vision and provide shareholders with a 
solid return on investment. 
INVESTMENT
Our on-going investment programme provides 
the Group with a platform for future growth 
across all three of our divisions.
In the period, the major investment projects 
completed, commenced and proposed include:
•  £0.8 million for Western Feed Supplements, 
Silver Springs, Nevada, low moisture  
block plant
• Acquired in June 2013
•  £0.7 million for joint venture ACC Feed 
Supplement, Sioux city, low moisture  
block plant
• Agreement signed in August 2013
•  £1.4 million for agriculture retail, branch 
expansion Carlisle
• Opened in May 2013
•  £0.2 million for AminoMax
®
 Plant, Lancaster, 
UK
• Commenced operation July 2013
•  £0.8 million for AminoMax
®
 Watertown, New 
York State expansion
• Completed November 2013
•  £17.0 million for flour mill, Kirkcaldy, Scotland
• Commenced operation September 2013
•  £4.5 million for Wälischmiller factory and 
office development, Germany
• Phase 3 due for completion December 2013
I am pleased to report record profit before tax for 
the Group, up 21.5% for the period, building on 
last year’ s success.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX BY SECTOR
AGRICULTURE 
£8.8m
7.9% up from 2012
FOOD 
£0.6m
26.5% up from 2012
ENGINEERING 
£4.2m
10.6% down from 2012
OVERVIEW 
Carr’s operates across a variety of markets both 
in the UK and Internationally. The common 
thread linking our Agriculture, Food and 
Engineering divisions together is the level of 
innovation, technology and research employed 
by all divisions, which drives current and future 
growth.
Since taking over as CEO on 1 March 2013, 
I have had the chance to visit the majority of 
sites in the countries in which we operate and I 
have been consistently impressed by our state 
of the art operations and by the professionalism, 
ingenuity and skills of our people across the 
business.
It is my belief that this powerful combination 
of great people and well invested assets has 
created a strong platform on which the Group 
can continue to develop and prosper in the 
future. 
STRATEGy
The strength and potential of the Group lies in 
its unique market position and focus on product 
diversification. Our strategic vision is to be a 
truly international business at the forefront of 
innovation and technology.
To achieve this vision, we need to build on 
our investment in key operational assets, 
expand our research capabilities and ensure 
we continue to roll out innovative products 
into the market place. We currently have ten 
significant research projects commissioned 
and in progress covering a wide range of 
activities including product efficacy in differing 
environments, and enhanced performance and 
development of new and existing products. This 
investment will continue to provide all divisions 
in the Group with new opportunities.  OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
05
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
AGRICULTURE
The weather both in the UK and USA had a 
significant impact on the performance of our 
Agriculture division driving the sales of feed, 
feed blocks, fuel and animal health products 
during the year. In the UK the wet autumn 
had an adverse impact on the quality of forage 
available and the duration and intensity of 
the 2012/13 winter accelerated sales. In the 
USA, the summer droughts of 2012 covered 
two thirds of the land area and 80% of the 
nation’s farm land resulting in low quality 
forage. As in the UK, the subsequent harsh 
winter conditions have not been favourable for 
farmers, having a detrimental impact on farm 
incomes.
Importantly, there was underlying growth 
and market share gains beyond the impact 
of the weather that supported the record 
performance in Agriculture, particularly 
the increasing recognition and sales of our 
branded products AminoMax
®
, Crystalyx
®
, 
Smartlic
®
 and Feed in a Drum
®
.
Retail sales in the UK increased by 23% over 
the prior year attributable to the prolonged, 
wet winter and our enhanced Country Store 
retail network. Despite difficult winter 
conditions in the UK our high customer service 
levels were maintained due to the dedication 
of our staff. Feed sales increased by 15% over 
the last year as a direct result of the winter 
conditions and heating oil, gasoline and diesel 
sales also benefitted from the weather.  
However, we continued to deliver on our 
strategy of focusing on core trading areas, 
providing a full complement of products 
Profit before tax for the period increased by 7.9% to £8.8 million (2012:  
£8.1 million) on revenue up by 15.9% to £340.4 million (2012: £293.8 million). 
Profit before tax for the period, including contributions from associate and joint 
ventures, increased by 22.5% to £11.6 million (2012: £9.5 million).
and services for the developing needs of our 
customers. Previous investments at fuel depot 
sites in Lancaster, Cockermouth, Hexham 
and Carlisle also contributed to the improved 
performance.
Our branded feed blocks (Crystalyx
®
, 
Smartlic
®
 and Feed in a Drum
®
) continue 
to achieve significant sales growth. We 
have commissioned university research 
in four areas, to continue to develop our 
portfolio of low moisture block products. 
Significant growth in this area combined with 
market share gains and favourable weather 
conditions, resulted in sales of feed blocks 
increasing by 9%. 
To support customer demand and future 
growth into new markets our USA subsidiary, 
Animal Feed Supplement Inc (“AFS“), 
purchased Western Feed Supplements, a low 
moisture feed block manufacturer in Silver 
Springs, Nevada in June 2013 for  
£0.8 million. The plant is strategically located 
close to the significant cattle populations 
in California which could not previously be 
accessed cost effectively from our existing 
plants. In August 2013, a joint venture 
company, ACC Feed Supplement LLC, was 
formed between AFS, our wholly owned USA 
subsidiary and Consumer Supply Distributing 
LLC (“CSD”) to establish a low moisture feed 
block plant at CSD’s plant in Sioux City, Iowa. 
The plant will supply products through both 
companies’ existing sales and distribution 
networks, and is expected to commence 
production in the fourth quarter of 2014.
AminoMax
®
, the patented rumen bypass 
protein product, produced at Watertown,  
New York State, increased sales on the 
previous year. Based on future customer 
demand for AminoMax
®
 we have invested  
with our JV partner a further £1.6 million  
to increase the plant capacity by 65%.  
The extended plant commences operation  
this month.
As a key element of our strategy to be 
recognised as the leading dairy nutrition 
company, a new state-of-the-art AminoMax
®
 
plant was commissioned at our Lancaster 
feed mill in July 2013. The successful 
commissioning process was supported by the 
management team from Watertown, USA.
We remain positive about the future prospects 
for the Agriculture division. With ongoing 
focus on research and development of further 
beneficial livestock products, we will continue 
to extend the reach of our products and 
services both in the UK and internationally.
REVENUE  
£340.4m
2013 £340.4m
2012 £293.8m
2011 £272.7m 06
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
FOOD
Revenue increased for our Food division by 17.0% to £94.2 million 
and profit increased by 26.5% to £0.6 million.
Eighteen months ago the Board approved the 
£17 million investment in a new state-of–the-
art mill at Kirkcaldy, Scotland. In September 
2013, flour milling production commenced 
at the new mill. This strategic investment 
in a new technologically advanced mill was 
made against a backdrop of overcapacity in 
the UK flour milling market, substantial under 
investment in flour milling assets across the 
industry and ever increasing demands from 
customers for higher food safety standards. 
This investment will allow us not only to meet 
our customers’ needs and expectations but 
also to return the Food division to improved 
levels of financial performance. We expect to 
see the benefits of the Group’s investment start 
to be realised through 2014 with an increase 
in underlying performance expected to be 
fully realised in the short to medium term, 
driven from a mix of cost savings and planned 
operational efficiencies. The building of the 
new mill has been completed on time and 
within budget which is of great credit to all  
our team who have shown remarkable 
dedication and skill in delivering this project. 
The 2012 wheat harvest in the UK was the 
worst in living memory both in terms of yield 
and quality. In contrast, the 2013 UK wheat 
harvest is expected to be good quality albeit 
due to the poor weather in 2012 planting was 
reduced and therefore the crop is the smallest 
since 2001. The position of our two northern 
mills, Kirkcaldy, Scotland and Silloth, 
Cumbria at port locations has been key to 
the improved performance of the division. 
Investment by the Forth Ports Authority and 
ourselves to open the Kirkcaldy harbour 
in 2012 has reaped significant rewards as 
we were able to source quality wheat from 
international markets with great flexibility 
and lower logistics costs. The ability to 
source quality wheat from different markets, 
including the UK, is key to risk management 
within the division. 
REVENUE  
£94.2m
2013 £94.2m
2012 £80.5m
2011 £82.6m OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
07
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
ENGINEERING
Profit before tax for the period decreased by 10.6% to £4.2 million (2012: 
£4.7 million) on revenue up by 12.4% to £33.4 million (2012: £29.7 million). 
The objectives of the Engineering division 
are aligned with those of the Group, and our 
strategy to achieve this is by investing in the 
growth and development of the Engineering 
business through research, innovation and 
acquisition.
Wälischmiller, the remote handling and 
robotics business based in Germany, has 
had an exceptionally successful year. The 
second phase of the £4.5 million investment 
in the new factory and offices at Markdorf 
is in the final phase and will complete in 
December 2013. The logistics of transferring 
the final phase of plant across to the new 
factory will cause a degree of disruption to 
production with some additional one-off costs 
to be incurred as a result. The more efficient 
production layout and the investment in 
technology will optimise operations in the 
forthcoming year.  
The experienced engineering design team 
continue to research and develop market 
leading and bespoke products for the 
nuclear industry and the oil and gas market, 
representing significant new opportunities  
for the business. A development contract  
with Statoil and Shell in Norway is on-going 
for the adaptation of Telbot
®
, the remote 
controlled robotic arm, for use in tank 
inspection. Wälischmiller recently exhibited  
at the International Robot Exhibition in Japan, 
which is the worldwide exhibition on robots 
and robotics for many industries including 
the nuclear and oil and gas industries. At 
the exhibition, the A100 and Joyarm robotic 
arm, were exhibited as well as the V1000, 
a remote-controlled handling vehicle, which 
is a new innovative product which has the 
ability to be completely tailored to customer 
requirements and can work in combination with, 
alongside or separately to the other products of 
Wälischmiller. 
Carrs MSM based in Swindon, Wiltshire builds 
and services manipulators used mainly in the 
nuclear industry and research centres. In the 
period it has achieved record turnover building 
on the success of last year as it continues 
to execute sales based on the “life of plant” 
contract with Sellafield, signed in 2012. 
Under the contract Carrs MSM supply master 
slave manipulator parts critical for the major 
operating plants at Sellafield.
Bendalls, the specialist fabricator, based in 
Carlisle is in the process of completing the 
delayed £4 million pressure vessel contract  
for a floating production, storage and offloading 
platform being built by Hyundai for the BP 
Quad 204 area. The post-delivery contract 
issues with Bechtel in the USA reported last 
year have been resolved at an additional cost  
of £0.5 million. While future contracts remain 
at a low level due to the lack of activity in the 
UK nuclear industry, particularly at Sellafield, 
new decommissioning projects are expected to 
commence in 2014 and Bendalls is well placed 
to capitalise on these opportunities. In the short 
term, the focus of Bendalls’ current contracts is 
with the oil and gas industry.
TIM DAVIES
Chief Executive Officer
15 November 2013
REVENUE  
£33.4m
2013 £33.4m
2012 £29.7m
2011 £18.0m 08
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
GROWTH INTERNATIONALL Y THROUGH  
THE HARD WORK OF INNOVATIVE PEOPLE
Carr’ s is a truly international company with almost half its profit before tax being achieved  
outside the UK and distributing products to over 30 countries worldwide.
Employees
Below is total number of employees by division.
AGRICULTURE
ENGINEERING
FOOD
Profit Before Tax by Sector
International 
Distribution
Our Engineering and Agriculture  
divisions distribute to customers  
all over the world.
CANADA
JAPAN
SOUTH AFRICA
ARGENTINA
SOUTH KOREA
TURKEY
NEW ZEALAND
RUSSIA
GERMANY
USA
UK
ENGINEERING £4.2m
AGRICULTURE £8.8m
FOOD £0.6m
FRANCE 
BELGIUM
UK
SWITZERLAND 
NETHERLANDS
AUSTRIA
CZECH REPUBLIC
ROMANIA
UKRAINE
SWEDEN
NORWAY
GERMANY
IRELAND 
SPAIN 
FRANCE 
SWITZERLAND 
NETHERLANDS
CZECH REPUBLIC
POLAND
ROMANIA
UKRAINE
LITHUANIA
LATVIA
ESTONIA
FINLAND 
SWEDEN
ITALY
DENMARK 
AUSTRIA
GREECE
UK
GERMANY
Agriculture  
European Distribution
Engineering  
European Distribution
540
218
188 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
09
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
CASE STUDY - AMINOMAX
®
The Northeast area of the USA has a dairy cow population of  
1.4 million within 350 miles of our AminoMax
®
 facility located in 
Watertown, New York State. Over 50% of the cows are on diets that 
contain plant based bypass protein such as AminoMax
®
.
addition to soybean and obtain excellent bypass 
protein values for both products.
Our ability to blend soy and canola gives us a 
unique advantage over our competitors as we 
are able to deliver a wider range of amino acids 
to the dairy customer. This places AminoMax
®
 
as the most technically advanced bypass 
protein product in the USA.
The global and domestic interest in AminoMax
®
 
is extremely high and we receive weekly 
enquiries from companies around the world. 
We have applied the knowledge, experience, 
and technology from our Watertown facility 
in establishing a new AminoMax
®
 facility in 
Lancaster, UK, to satisfy the increasing  
demand from the UK dairy market. 
The AminoMax
®
 facility was 
opened in October 2011 and our 
sales have continued to grow 
each year to the point where we 
are in the process of completing 
a second plant expansion to 
keep up with the demand.
Our Watertown facility is fully automated and 
was designed to produce the most consistent 
bypass protein product possible by utilising 
patented state-of-the-art technology.
The process control allows us to track all 
aspects of the manufacturing process to ensure 
every production run is identical, which ensures 
a consistent product and in turn consistent 
performance for our customers.
We are the only company worldwide that has 
successfully been able to utilise canola in  10
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
CASE STUDY - CARR’S FLOUR MILLS 
Scotland is home to many great bakery businesses, that produce 
some of the finest baked goods in the United Kingdom. They depend 
on a miller who can consistently supply them with the right flour for 
the job, whether it is for bread, biscuits, rolls or pastry.
Our Kirkcaldy mill has been 
supplying these bakers for 
nearly 200 years. Following 
the recent major investment 
in a new mill, we look forward 
to continuing to supply these 
same customers for many years 
to come.
“State-of-the-art” is an over-used description 
but our new mill in Kirkcaldy can genuinely lay 
claim to being the world’s most advanced. 
 
Two years ago we set about designing a mill 
which incorporated all the latest thinking with 
regard to energy efficiency, flour quality and 
food safety. Following a number of high profile 
food safety scares in other sectors, provenance 
and food safety have become increasingly 
important to our customers. They need to know 
CASE STUDIES continued
that we have precise and up-to-the minute control 
of our processes, thereby minimising the risk of 
product contamination as well as enabling us to 
provide detailed and timely product traceability 
reports. Features of the new mill which address 
these concerns include:
•  An Optical Colour Sorter in the wheat cleaning 
process. This will detect and eliminate 
discoloured grains, a possible source of 
mycotoxins.
•  Milling machinery that is designed to be easy 
to clean.
•  A pioneering, fully automated flour sampling, 
testing and reporting system.
•  A process control system which enables us 
to provide customers with a traceability report 
within minutes of their flour being milled.
•  Interlocking flour redressing systems to control 
the risk of any foreign body contamination.
By talking to our customers and working closely 
with our building architect and machinery 
suppliers, we have designed and built a mill 
which has taken the control of food safety to 
a new level. In every sense, it is a mill which 
is well placed to serve its customers and to 
provide them with a reliable source of high 
quality flour. OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
CASE STUDY - WÄLISCHMILLER
Wälischmiller’ s specialist engineers have designed a new remote  
handling vehicle, the V1000. It is a fully remote-controlled handling 
vehicle designed to operate where safe human access is not possible, 
such as the Fukushima Nuclear Plant.
The vehicle can operate inside 
buildings, outside in all weather 
conditions, and in water. It can 
climb stairs, open doors and 
drive over almost every possible 
ground condition, and with a 
robotic arm it can right itself 
should it ever be knocked over.
It can be operated through a number of walls 
as well as at distances of 500 metres in line of 
sight. It has a carry load of 250kg and can pull 
weight in excess of two tonnes.
The V1000 is unique with its highly flexible 
design and applicability, which enables it to be 
built to meet customers’ varying requirements. 
Not only is it variable in terms of scope and 
control, but it is modular in conception and can 
be equipped with anything to meet customer 
requirements. The V1000 is ideally placed to 
operate in radioactive environments and can  
be operated both wirelessly or with cables.  
It has been designed with ease of operation 
and maintenance in mind, with no licenses 
to operate required, and all electronics easily 
removable remotely.
An on-board camera and global-positioning 
system will help the operator remotely control 
the vehicle, which in Fukushima will provide 
scientists and technicians their first sight into 
certain areas as they try to discover the extent  
of the clean-up required within the confines of 
the destroyed reactors.
The V1000 is demonstrating some of its 
capabilities at the IROS 2013, which is the 
international conference in the world of 
intelligent robots, where it is expected to be  
one of the stars.
The V1000 is demonstrating some 
of its capabilities at the IROS 2013, 
which is the international conference 
in the world of intelligent robots, where 
it is expected to be one of the stars.
V1000 with robotic  
arm attached 12
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
FINANCIAL
REVIEW
NEIL AUSTIN  
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR
THE GROUP’S BUSINESS
The Group’s operations are organised into  
three business divisions, Agriculture, Food  
and Engineering, and the performance of these 
divisions is discussed in the Chief Executive’s 
Review on pages 4 to 7. The Agriculture 
business operates in the UK, the USA and 
Germany. The Food business operates entirely 
within the UK, and the Engineering business 
operates from the UK and Germany.
The markets in which all three businesses 
operate are competitive both in terms of pricing 
from other suppliers and the retail environment 
in general which has a direct impact on many of 
our customers. Despite this, Carr’s businesses 
have a long track record of increasing sales 
and profits through a combination of investing 
in modern, efficient factories and equipment, 
developing a range of quality, value-added 
products, and making sound acquisitions. 
The businesses are under the control of 
stable, experienced and talented operational 
management teams supported by a skilled 
workforce.
BUSINESS OBjECTIVES AND PROGRESS
There are six key elements to the Group’s 
strategy for meeting its objectives on continuing 
growth and profitability:
•   Continue research and product development;
•   Deliver quality, innovative and cost-effective 
products and services to our customers;
•  Achieve organic growth;
•   Seek acquisitions to complement our existing 
businesses;
•  Maximise operational efficiency;
•  Secure employee health and safety.
Progress against these strategic objectives is 
described in the Chief Executive’s Review and 
Corporate Responsibility Statement.
BUSINESS STRATEGIES
The Group’s strategy is to achieve growth 
through a focus on research, innovation and 
added-value products. Our aim is to achieve this 
through a combination of factors: investing in 
our people and developing the people that will 
drive the business forward in the future; having 
a focussed acquisition strategy; continuing to 
deliver service excellence to our expanding 
customer base; and investing in our assets to 
ensure long term competitive advantage.
Each business within the Group is given 
the responsibility for developing its own 
detailed plans to deliver the Group’s strategic 
objectives. The role of the Board in achieving 
the Group’s objectives has been to support 
operational management and to identify suitable 
acquisitions that align to the Group’s strategy.
CURRENT AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENT  
AND PERFORMANCE
The key features of the period have been the 
record profit before tax for the Group, for the 
second successive year, and continued capital 
investment across all three divisions. 
REVENUE
Reported revenues were £468.1 million,  
15.8% ahead of last year. 
Key factors in this revenue growth were the 
weather conditions, both in the UK and USA, 
which were favourable to sales, and fluctuating 
raw material prices which because of the nature 
of some of our contracts can directly impact 
sales values. There is also significant underlying 
growth in this year’s revenues, reflecting the 
strength of our brands in Agriculture and 
the delivery of some large contracts in our 
Engineering division.
OPERATING PROFIT
Group operating profit of £13.8 million is 
up 14.4% on last year. As a percentage of 
revenues, Group operating margin is 2.9% 
compared to 3.0% in 2012. 
SHARE OF ASSOCIATE AND jVS
The Group’s share of the post-tax result in its 
associate and joint ventures was £2.9 million, 
compared to £1.4 million in 2012. The result 
reflected a large increase in its associate’s 
profitability, primarily due to the weather impact, 
and also improved profitability in the overseas 
feed block joint ventures in Germany and the 
USA.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
Profit before tax at £15.9 million was  
21.5% higher than in the previous year.
TAXATION
The Group’s effective tax charge on profit from 
activities after net finance costs and excluding 
profits from associate and joint ventures was 
24.1% (2012: 25.3%).  
Nature, objectives 
and strategies
FINANCIAL REVIEW OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
The Group and the Trustees continue to look at 
ways of de-risking the defined benefit scheme 
to provide less volatility in the scheme’s assets 
and liabilities in the future.
ACqUISITIONS
During the year the Group acquired the trade 
and assets of Western Feed Supplements in 
Silver Springs, Nevada, USA. The acquisition 
was in line with the Group’s Agriculture strategy 
of overseas expansion for feed blocks. The 
location of the plant gives access to new areas 
of the USA with large numbers of potential 
customers, and will complement the Group’s 
two existing USA low moisture feed block plants 
in South Dakota and Oklahoma.
kEy PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
We monitor our performance against the 
strategy by means of key performance 
indicators (‘KPIs’):
kPI DEFINITION
Underlying 
sales growth
Year on year increase 
in sales revenue 
excluding the impact 
of acquisitions and 
disposals
Gross margin Gross profit as a 
percentage of sales 
revenue
Underlying 
Group operating 
margin
Operating profit before 
non-recurring items as a 
percentage of revenue
Free cash flow Cash generated from 
operating activities, less 
maintenance capital 
expenditure
Return on net 
assets
Profit before tax and 
before non-recurring 
items and amortisation 
as a percentage of net 
assets
A reconciliation of the actual total tax charge to 
the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 
of 23.58% is given in note 6 to the financial 
statements.
EARNINGS PER SHARE
The profit attributable to the equity holders  
of the Company amounted to £11.4 million,  
and basic earnings per share was 128.7p,  
an increase of 31.1%.
Adjusted earnings per share of 128.7p  
(2012: 101.5p), is calculated by dividing 
the profit attributable to equity holders for 
the period, before non-recurring items and 
amortisation of intangible assets, by the 
weighted average number of shares in issue 
during the period. 
 
FINANCING
Our net debt has increased over the year, 
reflecting the significant capital investment 
programme that began in 2012 and increased 
working capital requirements associated with 
higher trading volumes.
A free cash flow of £1.8 million (2012:  
£6.4 million) was generated in the period.  
During the year the Group’s revolving credit 
facility with Clydesdale was increased by  
£5 million to £15 million, and £9.2 million of the 
expenditure on the new flour mill at Kirkcaldy 
was refinanced on a fixed interest finance lease 
over a 7 year term.
Headroom against existing facilities was  
£17.9 million at the year end. The majority of 
the Group’s existing facilities are due for renewal 
in November 2014.
PENSIONS
The Group operates its current pension 
arrangements on a defined benefit and defined 
contribution basis. The defined benefit section 
is closed to new members and has 66 active 
members, 86 deferred members and 203 
current pensioners. The scheme received  
£2.3 million additional contributions from the 
Group in accordance with the latest actuarial 
valuation as agreed between the Company and 
the Trustees. 
The valuation on an IAS 19 accounting basis 
showed a deficit before the related deferred 
tax asset in the scheme at 31 August 2013 
of £3.3 million (2012: £5.4 million). Actuarial 
losses of £0.6 million have been recognised in 
the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income.
The deficit has declined over recent years as 
shown in the chart opposite:
Cash flow and net debt £’000
Group operating profit
Depreciation
Amortisation
13,807
5,227
252
EBITDA (excluding associate and joint ventures)
Increase in inventories
Increase in receivables
Increase in payables
Other
19,286
(6,088)
(5,699)
2,787
(3,053)
Net operating cash flow
Net interest
Taxation
7,233
(534)
(2,707)
Cash flow from operations
Maintenance capital expenditure net of disposal proceeds
3,992
(2,174)
Free cash flow
Expansionary capital expenditure net of disposal proceeds
Acquisitions
Dividends
Loans received/paid
Other
1,818 
(7,542)
(810)
(2,619)
8,937
15
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents 
Opening cash equivalents
(201) 
22,876
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 22,675
Opening net debt 
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents
Net increase in borrowings
2,455 
201
19,453
Closing net debt 22,109
2013
2012 
2011
2010 £10.7m
2009 £14.7m
£3.3m
£5.4m
£6.0m 14
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
FINANCIAL REVIEW continued
concerned. As this translation has no impact on 
cash flow, the Group chooses not to hedge its 
foreign subsidiaries’ earnings.
The balance sheets of the foreign subsidiaries 
are translated into sterling at the closing US 
dollar and euro exchange rates. Any gains or 
losses on the translation of the balance sheet 
into sterling are recorded in reserves.
INTEREST RATE RISk In recent times of low borrowings and low 
interest rates, the Board has chosen not to 
manage its cost of borrowing through interest 
rate hedging instruments. During the year, 
a proportion of the Group’s new longer term 
borrowings were taken on a fixed interest rate. 
The Board will continue to keep this under 
review in light of the level of borrowings and 
economic indicators.
CREDIT RISk Practically all sales are made on credit terms 
to an extensive range of customers, which 
include UK food producers, agricultural 
merchants, farmers and the nuclear industry. 
Overdue accounts are reviewed monthly at 
divisional management meetings. Historically, 
the incidence of bad debts is low. The ongoing 
current financial climate requires the Group’s 
credit control functions to be particularly vigilant.
FUNDING
The Group has historically been cash 
generative. The bank position for each operation 
is monitored on a daily basis and capital 
expenditure above a certain level is approved 
at the monthly Group board meeting. Each 
operation has access to the Group’s overdraft 
facility or has facilities specific to that operation 
and all term debt is arranged centrally. Bank 
facilities for more than half the Group’s 
funding requirements is agreed for the year to 
November 2014. The balance of the Group’s 
funding is negotiated annually.
PERFORMANCE AGAINST kPIs :
kPI 2013 2012
Underlying sales growth 14.6% 8.1%
Gross margin 10.4% 10.9%
Underlying Group 
operating margin
2.9% 3.0%
Free cash flow £1.8m £6.4m
Return on net assets 20.4% 19.9%
 
TREASURy POLICIES
The Group’s policy is structured to ensure 
adequate financial resources are available for 
the development of its business while managing 
its currency and interest rate risks. The Group’s 
strategy, policy and controls are developed 
centrally and approved by the Board.
The main elements of treasury activity are 
outlined below.
FUNCTIONAL CURRENCy
The functional currency of the Company is 
sterling.
The Group contracts to purchase raw materials 
for its flour milling activities in advance of sales 
contracts.
FOREIGN CURRENCy RISk The major transactional foreign currency risk 
facing the Group is in the purchase of raw 
materials for the flour milling operation. The 
major currency involved is the euro. The policy 
of the Group is to hedge significant exposure 
using forward foreign exchange contracts with 
UK banks as soon as commitment has been 
given to the underlying transaction.
The results of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries 
and joint ventures are translated into sterling 
at the average rates of exchange for the period 
RESOURCES, RISkS AND UNCERTAINTIES
The Group aims to safeguard the assets that 
give it competitive advantage, being its product 
quality, product innovation, food safety and 
service levels, its operational management, 
skilled workforce and its modern well-equipped 
factories.
REPUTATION
It is the responsibility of local operational 
management assisted by the Group Risk 
Manager to maintain, and where possible 
enhance, the Group’s reputation for product 
quality, product innovation, food safety service 
levels and a culture of safe working.
MANUFACTURING FACILITIES
The Group has continued to invest in its 
production facilities in all three sectors and is 
completing significant capital projects on its 
engineering facilities in Germany. It intends to 
continue investing to ensure that it maintains  
a competitive edge.
EMPLOyEES
While the Group continues to invest in facilities 
and equipment we also continue to invest in our 
people. The Group offers training programmes 
where additional skills are required to undertake 
their responsibilities. The businesses have 
strategies for retaining staff, including the 
provision of competitive terms and conditions, 
and a contributory occupational pension 
scheme.
PRINCIPAL RISkS AND UNCERTAINTIES
Each year the Group carries out a formal 
exercise to identify and assess the impact of 
risks on its business, the main risks are set out 
on pages 16 to 17. 
NEIL AUSTIN 
Group Finance Director
15 November 2013 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
15
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
THE BOARD
THE BOARD
From left to right
REGISTERED OFFICE AND ADVISERS
TIM DAVIES
Chief Executive Officer
ROBERT HEyGATE
Non-Executive Director
kATIE SINCLAIR
Company Secretary
CHRIS HOLMES
Non-Executive Chairman
NEIL AUSTIN
Group Finance Director
ALISTAIR WANNOP
Non-Executive Director
REGISTERED OFFICE
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Old Croft, Stanwix
Carlisle 
CA3 9BA
Registered No. 98221
CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS AND STATUTORy
AUDITORS
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
89 Sandyford Road
Newcastle upon Tyne
NE1 8HW
BANkERS
Clydesdale Bank PLC
82 English Street
Carlisle 
CA3 8HP
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
37 Lowther Street
Carlisle 
CA3 8EL
FINANCIAL ADVISER AND BROkER
Investec Bank (UK) Limited
2 Gresham Street
London 
EC2V 7QP
FINANCIAL AND CORPORATE PR ADVISERS
Powerscourt
1 Tudor Street
London 
EC4Y 0AH
SOLICITORS
Hill Dickinson LLP
1 St Paul’s Square
Liverpool 
L3 9SJ
REGISTRARS
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent
BR3 4TU 16
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
RISK 
MANAGEMENT
Effective risk management underpins the delivery of the Group’ s 
strategy and objectives.
RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s risk management. The risk management process involves the identification and prioritisation of key risks, 
together with associated controls and plans for mitigation, which are then reported to the Board. The key risks and uncertainties identified as part of this 
process, together with some of the mitigating actions that we are taking, are listed below.
It is not possible to identify or anticipate every risk that may affect the Group. Our overall success depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in different 
economic, social and political environments and to manage and to mitigate these risks.
kEy RISkS
RISK IMPACT AND DESCRIPTION EXAMPLES OF MITIGATING ACTIONS
Health, safety, 
security and 
environment (HSSE)
There are three main categories of risks associated 
with HSSE:
•  Incidents resulting in major injury or fatality of one 
of our employees, contractors, suppliers, customers 
at a site, owned, operated or in which the company 
has an interest;
•  An incident which results in significant 
environmental damage;
•  A security event requiring activation of our business 
disruption/business continuity plan.
These risks may cause disruption, distress and 
damage our reputation, and the cost of recovery/
clean up or litigation could have a material financial 
impact.
•  The Board oversees HSSE risks and it is a 
permanent agenda item due to its high priority;
•  Health and safety policies and procedures have 
been designed specifically for all facilities;
•  Product safety and quality policies and procedures 
in place to prevent contamination;
•  Manage and reduce environmental impact through 
technology and cultural change;
•  Monitoring of health and safety/environmental 
performance across the Group by means of an 
updated site audit programme;
•  On-going investment in health and safety and 
driving training;
•  Participation in industry sector specific health and 
safety groups;
•  Site security and business continuity plans are 
regularly reviewed.
Failure to attract, 
develop and retain key 
personnel
Performance, knowledge and skills of employees 
are central to success. We must attract, integrate 
and retain the talent required to fulfil our strategy 
and growth. Inability to retain key knowledge and 
adequately plan for succession could have a negative 
impact on the Group’s performance.
•  Remuneration policies designed to attract, retain 
and reward employees with ability and experience 
to execute Group strategy;
•  Succession planning takes place at management 
and Board level;
•  Management review to ensure the workforce has 
the capability to progress with the business. OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
RISK IMPACT AND DESCRIPTION EXAMPLES OF MITIGATING ACTIONS
Non-compliance 
with legislation and 
regulation
The Group operates in diverse markets and therefore 
is exposed to a range of legislation and regulation, 
which are constantly changing. We must comply 
with and understand all regulation, legislation and be 
able to make correct interpretations for our diverse 
business. Any breach could have a financial impact 
and damage our reputation.
•  In-house Counsel provides immediate legal 
knowledge and understanding to the Board and 
management;
•  Legal advisers assist with monitoring external 
changes in legislation and advise accordingly, and 
maintain compliance policies in areas such as 
antitrust, money laundering and bribery laws;
•  Local legal advisers are used in overseas territories 
to ensure compliance with all local legislation.
Failure to protect 
intellectual property
Our commercial success depends, in part, on 
obtaining and maintaining trademark and patent 
protection on certain products and technology.  
We must successfully defend trademarks and patents 
against third-party challenges or infringements.
•  In-house Counsel is supported by expert intellectual 
property lawyers in multiple jurisdictions;
•  Organised and secure process for identifying and 
recording innovations, trade secrets and potential 
patentable ideas.
Brand and reputation Not meeting the required service levels, especially 
where the business is heavily reliant on a particular 
customer, and/or falling behind on emerging trends 
could have a negative impact on performance and 
reputation. Brand awareness and market positioning 
require constant monitoring as a loss of market could 
have a detrimental impact on the financial position of 
the Group.
•  Management work closely with customers to 
identify emerging trends;
•  Area account managers in place for major 
customers.
Failure to maintain 
an effective system 
of internal financial 
controls
Without effective internal financial controls, we could 
be exposed to financial irregularities and losses from 
acts which could have a significant impact on the 
ability of the business to operate. We must safeguard 
business assets and ensure accuracy and reliability of 
records and financial reporting.
•  Authorisation policies ensure that key tasks are 
segregated to safeguard assets;
•  Detailed internal finance and capital expenditure 
policies set out procedures;
•  Group financial performance monitored with 
monthly Board reports and regular forecasting;
•  Chief Executive and Group Finance Director 
undertake detailed business and financial reviews.
Commodity costs The Food division purchases a significant quantity 
of raw materials each year and incurs many other 
input costs such as utilities. The Group’s cost base 
can be affected by fluctuating raw material services 
and energy prices. An inability to pass on increases in 
costs quickly to the customer could adversely affect 
the results of the Group.
As with the Food division, the associate Carrs 
Billington Agriculture (Operations) Ltd purchases 
significant quantities of raw materials every year, and 
an inability to purchase at a reasonable price in the 
market would adversely affect the Carrs Billington 
Agriculture Operations and Sales businesses.
•  We have strong relationships with suppliers, 
enabling optimal negotiated prices;
•  Multiple-source suppliers for key ingredient 
supplies;
•  Import facilities direct at mill sites enable cost 
effective alternatives should local supplies prove 
challenging;
•  Forward sales contracts are balanced with raw 
material purchases to keep exposure within agreed 
limits;
•  Derivatives used where most beneficial to hedge 
exposure to movements in future prices of 
commodities;
•  Contract execution is closely monitored to ensure 
supply is within agreed terms. 18
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 
COMMITMENT
• Ensuring there is equality of opportunity for all  
existing and potential employees;
• The fair treatment of people with disabilities 
regarding applications, training, promotion 
and career development. An employee who 
becomes disabled would, where appropriate, 
be offered retraining;
• Providing employees with clear and fair terms 
of employment and competitive remuneration 
packages; and
• Enabling employees to have access to 
information allowing them to be able to 
contribute and participate fully in the Group’s 
objectives and achievements.
The Group has a diverse workforce, with almost 
1,000 employees working in the UK, USA and 
Germany. Across the Group women accounted 
for 23% of the total number of employees.
SAFETy
We continue with our commitment to achieving 
and maintaining high standards of health and 
safety throughout the Group. The Board strive to 
ensure that the right culture towards health and 
safety exists throughout all levels of the business, 
and the Board is regularly updated on progress 
by the Group Risk Manager.
Providing a safe working environment for our 
employees and also for our customers and 
visitors is paramount for the successful running 
of the business. The Group safety management 
PEOPLE
The culture of the Group is key to its continuing 
employee retention and ensuring employee 
satisfaction, and the Group is very proud of the 
“can do” attitude of its employees. With many 
employees with over 25 years’ service and 
some in excess of 40 years’ service the Group 
prides itself in having created a happy working 
environment.
 
We understand the importance of engaging and 
developing our employees, as this will underpin 
the business’ success. This year we invited Stuart 
Lancaster, the Head Coach for the England 
Rugby Football Union, to come and speak at 
a seminar held for our managers. His insight 
into the long term investment in people for the 
continuing success of the England Rugby Union 
team was directly applicable to our business 
environment. We believe that understanding 
the needs of our employees and maintaining 
their engagement, alongside the drivers of the 
business, are essential for the continuing success 
of the Group, and this is a key component of our 
people development programme.
 
EMPLOyMENT POLICIES AND EMPLOyEES
The Group takes its responsibilities for its 
employees seriously. It also recognises that the 
commitment of the employees is vital to all areas 
of the business. The Group values diversity and 
is fully committed to treating its employees and 
customers with dignity and respect. The Group 
is committed to:
 
system is implemented throughout our UK 
sites and is adopted by any new acquisitions. 
Monitoring is undertaken primarily by means 
of the Safety and Loss Prevention Audit 
Programme, which is used by the Group Risk 
Manager who also provides additional support, 
guidance and mentoring as necessary.
Overall, the number of accidents across the 
Group’s UK businesses fell by 40% which 
demonstrates the effectiveness of the Group’s 
safety management programme, and the culture 
of safety being adopted by employees.
This overall decrease was due to a reduction 
in minor accidents by 45%, and a reduction of 
RIDDOR injuries by 33%. The Group is pleased 
to report there were no fatalities.
The Group Risk Manager will continue with 
his on-going safety improvement plan, as well 
as maintaining regular reviews of the physical 
conditions of each site.
ENVIRONMENT
On-going progress has been made to continue to 
reduce our carbon footprint and energy use per 
unit of production.
The continuing efforts by the Environment 
Committee to raise awareness of energy usage 
and implement environmentally friendly projects 
has resulted in the reduction of our carbon 
footprint. The Committee reports directly to 
the Board, ensuring that all the Directors are 
aware of progress throughout the year and 
the initiatives that have been undertaken. The 
Committee is now looking at how to maximise 
further energy savings and potential renewable 
energy opportunities with the help of an external 
specialist energy consultant.
The Group has a committed long term approach to Corporate Responsibility 
recognising the benefits that it brings not only to stakeholders but to the 
business in general, in terms of both recognition and community support.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Rae Tomlinson (Managing Director of Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Ltd), with Stuart Lancaster OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
achieve their potential through the challenge  
of outdoor adventure in the countryside. We 
have donated £25,000 this year, which we hope 
will help to enable the Trust to continue with the 
fantastic work they undertake.
In addition, we have continued our on-going 
support with Carlisle Youth Zone, which serves 
the social, recreational and emotional needs of 
young people in the area. C N C Holmes has 
become Chairman and other employees are 
volunteering to provide assistance in other areas.
In total we spent in excess of £70,000 on 
community donations and sponsorship including 
the above as well the following:
•  the local hospice where we have sponsored  
a bed for the next three years;
•  sporting teams, both for children and adults, 
including the Penrith Scratch League team 
who got promoted;
•  musical groups including the Border Concert 
Band;
•  agricultural endeavours, including £6,000 to 
RABI who provide support to farmers in need 
throughout the UK and the Walton and District 
Ploughing match.
We believe that the projects we sponsor target 
local needs and deliver the most positive impact, 
and ensure that our community work reflects our 
broader responsibilities as a Company.
RESULTS
In reducing our energy usage we are able to 
make financial savings for the Group, as well as 
helping the environment. Building on last year’s 
success we have managed:
•  energy use per unit of production reduced  
by 1%;
•  primary carbon footprint per unit of production 
reduced by 1.2%.
COMMUNITy
Supporting the local communities in which 
we operate is very important to the Group. 
Support takes many forms, from donations and 
sponsorship to volunteering and mentoring.
Last year we commenced the sponsorship  
of a research student at Lancaster University, 
and this continues as the student enters his  
second year. 
We have maintained our relationship with the 
Lake District Calvert Trust, a charity which 
enables people of all ages with disabilities, 
together with their families and friends, to 
Supporting local communities 
and charities is important to 
the Group as a business and  
to our employees.
Left: Volunteer assisting on outward bound day
Right: Inside Carlisle Youth Zone 20
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
RepoRt of the DiRectoRs The Directors submit their report and the audited consolidated financial 
statements of the Group for the period ended 31 August 2013.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled 
in England and Wales whose shares are listed and traded on the London 
Stock Exchange. The address of its registered office is Old Croft, Stanwix, 
Carlisle, CA3 9BA.
Principal activities, business review and future developments
The Group’s activities are Agriculture, Food and Engineering. A review  
of the business and future development of the Group is presented in the 
Chief Executive’s Review on pages 4 to 7 and in the Financial Review on 
pages 12 to 14. The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding 
company.
Results and dividends
The Group profit from continuing activities before taxation, was £15.9 
million (2012: £13.1 million). After a taxation charge of £3.1 million (2012: 
£3.0 million), the profit for the year is £12.7 million (2012: £10.1 million). 
An interim dividend of 7.75p (2012: 7.25p) per ordinary share was paid 
on 17 May 2013. A second interim dividend of 7.75p (2012: 7.25p) per 
ordinary share was paid on 11 October 2013. The Directors recommend 
the payment of a final dividend for the period, which is not reflected in  
these accounts, of 16.5p (2012: 14.5p) per ordinary share which, together 
with the interim dividends, represents 32.0p per ordinary share, totalling 
£2.8 million (2012: 29.0p per ordinary share, totalling £2.6 million).
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend  
will be paid on 17 January 2014 to members on the register at the close  
of business on 20 December 2013. Shares will be ex-dividend on  
18 December 2013.
Key performance indicators are presented in the Financial Review on  
pages 13 to 14.
Principal risk identification and management
The Group’s principal risks and uncertainties have been reviewed by the 
Board, and are shown on the Risks section on pages 16 to 17. The Risks 
section also provides information on the how those risks are managed.
Pensions
Estimates of the amount and timing of future funding obligations for the 
Group’s pension plans are based on various assumptions including, among 
other things, the actual and projected market performance of the pension 
plan assets, future long-term corporate bond yields, longevity of members 
and statutory requirements. The Group continued to make monthly 
payments to reduce the Group’s pension fund deficit, totalling £2.3 million 
in the year.
The Group continually reviews this risk and takes action to mitigate where 
possible. In addition, while the Group is consulted by the trustees on the 
investment strategies of its pension plans, the Group has no direct control 
over these matters as the trustees are directly responsible for the strategy.
Details of the Group’s pension plans are in note 24 in the Notes to the 
Financial Statements.
Directors and their interests
The Directors of the Company who served during the period and up to  
the date of signing the financial statements are stated on this page. During  
the period, R C Wood retired as Group Finance Director on 30 April 2013 
and N Austin commenced as Group Finance Director on 1 May 2013.  
C N C Holmes retired as Chief Executive on 28 February but remained as 
Executive Chairman until 31 July 2013, when he became a Non-Executive 
Director and Non-Executive Chairman; he will stand for re-election.  
T J Davies commenced as Chief Executive on 1 March 2013. T J Davies 
and N Austin will each stand for election.
A G M Wannop and A R Heygate continued to serve for the whole period 
under review. A G M Wannop will retire by rotation, and offers himself for 
re-election and A R Heygate retires in accordance with best practice under 
the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012, and offers himself for re-election.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012, the Board 
confirm that it believes that A R Heygate is an asset to the Board as a result 
of his great depth of knowledge and expertise in the agriculture and the UK 
flour milling industry, which the Board view as invaluable. 
Biographical details of the Directors are shown below:
Non-Executive Directors
C N C Holmes was appointed to the Board in January 1992, and as CEO  
in September 1994. Previously he held senior management positions  
in the agricultural division of J Bibby & Sons. C N C Holmes retired as  
Chief Executive Officer on 28 February 2013 and commenced as  
Executive Chairman on that date until becoming Non-Executive Chairman 
on 1 August 2013. Age 62.
A R Heygate was appointed to the Board in 1991. He is the joint Managing 
Director of Heygate & Sons Ltd, the UK’s largest independent flour milling 
company. He is the longest standing Non-Executive Director of Carr’s and 
is Chairman of the Audit Committee. He is also a member of the executive 
of Camden BRI Association and sits as Chairman on its Audit Committee. 
For almost 30 years he has been a member of the executive of the National 
Association of British & Irish Millers. Age 68.
A G M Wannop was appointed to the Board in September 2005. He is 
the Senior Independent Director of the Board and the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. Alistair has been the Chairman of both the 
County NFU and the MAFF northern regional advisory panel. He has  
served as a director of The English Farming and Food Partnership,  
Rural Regeneration Cumbria, and Cumbria Vision. Alistair is a fellow  
of the Royal Agricultural Society of England. Age 51.
Lord Inglewood was appointed as Chairman to the Board in 2005. He was 
a Conservative member of the European Parliament for ten years until his 
retirement in 2004, a Government Minister from 1995 to 1997 and has 
been a Member of the House of Lords since 1989. Lord Inglewood retired 
as a Director on 28 February 2013. Age 62.
C N C Holmes, A R Heygate and A G M Wannop have fixed term contracts 
which expire on 29 August 2014.
Executive Directors
T J Davies was appointed Chief Executive on 1 March 2013. Tim was Group 
Managing Director of Grainfarmers PLC, and led its successful merger 
with Centaur Grain Ltd to become Openfield, the largest farmer-owned 
grain marketing business in the UK. Tim has been a Board Director of the 
Agricultural Industries Confederation for over 10 years. Age 50.
N Austin was appointed Group Finance Director on 1 May 2013, joining 
the Company from PricewaterhouseCoopers where he had been a director 
since 2007. Whilst at PwC he advised FTSE 350 companies including 
multi-nationals on internal and external audit, risk assurance, as well as 
providing due diligence services. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants. Age 37.
R C Wood was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director and 
Company Secretary in January 1988 and is a member of the Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants. R C Wood retired as Company 
Secretary on 31 December 2012 and as a Director of the Company on  
30 April 2013. Age 65.
The Executive Directors have service contracts which provide for a one year 
notice period.  21
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Third party indemnity
The Directors are entitled to be indemnified by the Company to the extent 
permitted by law and in the Company’s Articles of Association in respect 
of all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their 
powers, duties and responsibilities. The Company has executed deeds of 
indemnity for the benefit of each Director in respect of liabilities which may 
attach to them in their capacity as Directors of the Company. The Company 
purchased and maintained Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance 
throughout 2012/13, which has been renewed for 2013/14. Neither the 
indemnities nor the insurance provide cover in the event the Director is 
proved to have acted fraudulently. 
Employment policies and employees
The Company is committed to its employees and further details on the 
Company’s policies and commitment can be found in the Corporate 
Responsibility Report on pages 18 to 19.
Acquisitions
In June 2013 Animal Feed Supplement, Inc acquired the business 
and assets of Western Feed Supplements, a low moisture feed block 
manufacturer located in Silver Springs, Nevada. The cash consideration 
paid was £581,000 with a further £229,000 for inventory. The acquisition 
extends our geographic coverage in the USA in the low moisture feed block 
market.
Political and charitable donations
During the period ended 31 August 2013 the Group contributed £41,000 
(2012: £29,386) in the UK for charitable purposes. Further details have 
been included with the Corporate Responsibility statement on page 19. 
There were no political donations during the year (2012: £Nil).
Investment properties
The market value of the Group’s investment properties at 31 August 2013 
exceeded their net book amount by approximately £390,000. The previous 
valuation in July 2011 for the majority of the investment properties was 
undertaken by independent, professionally qualified valuers. The Directors 
have reviewed the valuations and are satisfied there are no significant 
changes to the assumptions and the valuations.
Payment of suppliers
Payment terms are agreed with each supplier and every endeavour is made 
to adhere to the agreed terms. The average credit terms for the Group as a 
whole, based on the year-end trade payables figure and a 365 day period,  
is 34 days (2012: 41 days). The Company has no outstanding trade 
payables at the end of the financial period (2012: £Nil).
Share capital
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into 
Ordinary Shares of £0.25 each.
The movement in the share capital during the year is detailed in note 25 to 
the financial statements.
At the last Annual General Meeting the Directors received authority from the 
shareholders to:
Allot Shares – this gives Directors the authority to allot authorised but 
unissued shares and maintains the flexibility in respect of the Company’s 
financing arrangements. The nominal value of ordinary shares which the 
Directors may allot in the period up to the next Annual General Meeting  
to be held on 14 January 2014, is limited to £732,299 which is equal to 
33% of the nominal value of the issued share capital on 16 November 2012. 
The Directors do not have any present intention of exercising this authority 
other than in connection with the issue of ordinary shares in respect of the 
Company’s share option plans. This authority will expire at the end of the 
Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 January 2014.
Disapplication of rights of pre-emption – this disapplies rights of pre-
emption on the allotment of shares by the Company and the sale by the 
Company of treasury shares. The authority will allow the Directors to allot 
equity securities for cash pursuant to the authority to allot shares mentioned 
above, and to sell treasury shares for cash, on a pro rata basis to existing 
shareholders (but subject to any exclusion or arrangements as the Directors 
consider necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements, any 
legal, regulatory or practical problems or costs under the laws or regulations 
of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock 
exchange) and otherwise on a pro rata basis up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £110,954, representing 5% of the Company’s issued share 
capital as at 16 November 2012. This authority will expire at the end of  
the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 January 2014.
To buy own shares – this authority allows the Company to buy its own 
shares in the market, as permitted under the Articles of Association 
of the Company, up to a limit of 10% of the Company’s issued share 
capital. The price to be paid for any share must not be less than 25p, 
being the nominal value of a share, and must not exceed 105% of the 
average middle market quotations for the ordinary shares of the Company 
as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 
business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary shares 
are purchased. The Directors have no immediate plans to exercise the 
powers of the Company to purchase its own shares and undertaken that 
the authority would only be exercised if the Directors were satisfied that a 
purchase would result in an increase in expected earnings per share and 
was in the best interests of the Company at the time. This authority will 
expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 January 
2014. The Directors would consider holding any of its own shares that it 
purchases pursuant to this authority as treasury shares.
The interests of the Directors, as defined by the Companies Act 2006, in the 
ordinary shares of the Company, other than in respect of options to acquire 
ordinary shares (which are detailed in the analysis of options included in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 30), are as follows:
 At 31 August 2013 At 1 September 2012
 Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares
T J Davies 1,000 —
N Austin 1,000 —
C N C Holmes 125,250 127,500
R C Wood 95,430 96,430
A R Heygate 37,225 37,225
W R Inglewood 4,410 4,410
A G M Wannop 2,261 2,261
All the above interests are beneficial. There have been no other changes  
to the current directors interests in the period from 1 September 2013 to  
11 November 2013.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
In a general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of the 
articles of association and to any special rights or restrictions as to voting 
attached to any class of shares in the Company (of which they are none), 
the holders of the Ordinary Shares are entitled to one vote in a poll for every 
Ordinary Share held. No member shall be entitled to vote at any general 
meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held if any call or other 
sum then payable in respect of that share remains unpaid. Currently all 
issued shares are fully paid.
Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the 
resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 
14 January 2014 are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting. 22
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
RepoRt of the DiRectoRs continued
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may,  
by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the members, 
but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board. 
The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, 
whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the  
Board, justifies its payment. All dividends shall be apportioned and paid  
pro rata according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
Major shareholders
The Company has been informed of the following interests at 7 November 
2013 in the 8,890,230 ordinary shares of the Company, as required by the 
Companies Act 2006:
 Number % of issued
 of shares  share capital
Heygate & Sons Limited* 1,265,287 14.2%
T W G Charlton 565,000 6.4%
Rathbone Nominees Limited 441,875 5.0%
Europe Nominees Limited 380,978 4.3%
Barclayshare Nominees Limited 290,233 3.3%
HSBC Global Custody Nominee (UK) Limited 264,094 3.0%
TD Direct Investing Nominees (Europe) Ltd 253,457 2.9%
HSDL Nominees Ltd 214,886 2.4%
  
* A R Heygate is a Director of Heygate & Sons Ltd. 
Change of control
There are no agreements that the Company considers significant and to 
which the Company is party that would take effect, alter or terminate upon 
change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, other than the 
following:
•	 The 	 Company 	 is 	 party 	 to 	 a 	 number 	 of 	 banking 	 agreements 	 which	
upon a change of control of the Company are terminable by the bank 
immediately.
Directors’ responsibility statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Responsibility for preparing financial statements
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each 
financial period. Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group 
and parent Company financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union. Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the 
Group for that period. In preparing the financial statements, the Directors 
are required to:
•	 select 	 suitable 	 accounting 	 policies 	 and 	 then 	 apply 	 them 	 consistently;
•	 make 	 judgements 	 and 	 accounting 	 estimates 	 that 	 are 	 reasonable 	 and	
prudent;
•	 state 	 whether 	 applicable 	 IFRSs 	 as 	 adopted 	 by 	 the 	 European 	 Union	
have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements;
•	 prepare 	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 on 	 the 	 going 	 concern 	 basis, 	 unless 	 it 	 is	
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that 
are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
and Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility Statement
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 15 
confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
•	 the 	 Group 	 financial 	 statements, 	 which 	 have 	 been 	 prepared 	 in	
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; 
•	 the 	 Chief 	 Executive 	 and 	 Financial 	 Reviews 	 include 	 a 	 fair 	 review 	 of 	 the	
development and performance of the business and the position of the 
Group; and
•	 the 	 Risk 	 management 	 review 	 provides 	 a 	 description 	 of 	 the 	 principal	
risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the 
Directors’ Report are listed on page 15. Having made enquiries of fellow 
Directors each of these Directors, at the date of this report, confirms that:
•	 he 	 is 	 aware 	 there 	 is 	 no 	 relevant 	 audit 	 information 	 of 	 which 	 the	
Company’s auditors are unaware; and 
•	 he 	 has 	 taken 	 all 	 the 	 steps 	 that 	 he 	 ought 	 to 	 have 	 taken 	 as 	 a 	 director 	 in	
order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
By Order of the Board
Katie Sinclair
Company Secretary
15 November 2013 23
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
coRpoRate GoveRnance
The Directors have chosen to adopt and comply with the provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code 2012.
Principles of good governance
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.  
The adoption and maintenance of good governance is the responsibility of 
the Board as a whole. This report, together with the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 27 to 30, describes how the Board applies the principles 
of good governance and best practice as set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2012 (the “Code”). A statement of compliance can be 
found at the end of this report.
In September 2012 the UK Financial Reporting council published a revised 
UK Corporate Governance code, which the Company supports and is 
reporting in accordance with this revised guidance.
The Board
The Board believes that good corporate governance contributes to 
the Company’s performance. A clearly defined framework of roles, 
responsibilities and delegated authorities is in place and this supports the 
Board’s aim to deliver sustainable growth for the benefit of shareholders, 
employees and customers.
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Company’s Articles of 
Association. In addition, the Directors have responsibilities and duties under 
legislation, in particular the Companies Act 2006.
The Board met eleven times throughout the year. To enable the Directors of 
the Board to carry out their responsibilities all Directors have full and timely 
access to all relevant information. The Board has a schedule of matters for 
its discussion, which is reviewed against best practice. A summary is shown 
below and a full schedule is available on the Company’s website. 
The Board is responsible for:
•	 the 	 Group’ s 	 strategy;
•	 acquisitions 	 and 	 divestment 	 policy;
•	 corporate 	 governance, 	 risk 	 and 	 environment 	 policy 	 and 	 management;
•	 approval 	 of 	 budgets;
•	 general 	 treasury 	 policy;
•	 major 	 capital 	 expenditure 	 projects;
•	 dividend 	 policy;
•	 monitoring 	 the 	 Group’ s 	 profit 	 and 	 cash 	 flow 	 performance.
The Board has delegated authority to the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees to carry out certain tasks as defined in their written terms  
of reference approved by the Board; these are also available on the 
Company website.
Members
At the beginning of the year the Board consisted of a Non-Executive 
Chairman, two Executive Directors and two other Non-Executive Directors.  
W R Inglewood was Chairman until 28 February. During his time as 
Chairman he was considered independent and his independence was 
assessed when he was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman. On 1 March 
C N C Holmes became Executive Chairman, and on 1 August became 
Non-Executive Chairman. Due to C N C Holmes previously being the Chief 
Executive, the Code does not deem him to be independent; this is discussed 
further below under New Board Structure. 
A R Heygate is a Non-Executive Director and the Board considers him to 
be independent although the Code questions his independence due to 
his long association with the Company and the fact that he represents a 
significant shareholder. The Board believes that he acts in the best interests 
of the Company and that his knowledge and experience are an asset to the 
Company. In addition, it is felt that his holding of shares in the Company 
aligns his interests with those of the shareholders. A G M Wannop is the 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. The Code recommends that 
the Board of Directors of a UK public company should include a balance 
of Executive and Non-Executive Directors (including independent Non-
Executives) such that no individual or small group of individuals can 
dominate the Board’s decision-making. The Board is confident that it  
meets the requirements of the Code.
Directors’ biographies are shown on page 20. The formal terms of reference 
for the main Board Committees together with the terms and conditions of 
appointment of Non-Executive Directors are reviewed annually and are 
available for inspection at the Company’s Registered Office and at the 
Annual General Meeting.
Board Changes
On 31 December R C Wood retired as Company Secretary and was replaced 
by K Sinclair, Counsel and the previous assistant Company Secretary. 
N Austin commenced working for the Company on 1 January, working 
alongside R C Wood until taking over as Group Finance Director on 1 May 
when R C Wood retired.
On 1 March T J Davies joined the Company as Chief Executive, and C N C 
Holmes became Executive Chairman. C N C Holmes continued as Executive 
Chairman until 1 August when he commenced as Non-Executive Chairman.
The Board acknowledged that C N C Holmes continuing as Chairman is in 
breach of the code, however, it was felt that it was in the best interests of 
the Company and the shareholders for C N C Holmes’ wealth of knowledge 
and experience to be retained and utilised. Prior to the Board confirming its 
decision, major shareholders were contacted to seek their opinion. All major 
shareholders confirmed their support for C N C Holmes becoming Chairman. 
As Executive Chairman C N C Holmes has been able to assist T J Davies 
in becoming familiar with all areas of the Company and provide insight into 
the strategy that has enabled the Company to grow successfully. However, 
the Board are aware of the importance in understanding the separation of 
duties, and the nature of the different roles of not only the Chairman and 
Chief Executive but also the Non-Executive and Executive Directors. 
The Chairman is responsible for:
•	 leadership 	 of 	 the 	 Board 	 and 	 ensuring 	 its 	 effectiveness;
•	 providing 	 strategic 	 insight 	 from 	 his 	 long 	 service 	 with 	 the 	 Company , 	 and	
extensive business experience generally;
•	 providing 	 a 	 sounding 	 board 	 for 	 the 	 Chief 	 Executive 	 on 	 key 	 issues 	 and	
decisions;
•	 ensuring 	 effective 	 communication 	 with 	 shareholders 	 and 	 other 	 major	
stakeholders;
•	 supporting 	 the 	 Chief 	 Executive 	 in 	 the 	 effective 	 implementation 	 of 	 Board	
decisions.
The Chief Executive is responsible for:
•	 developing 	 and 	 implementing 	 the 	 objectives 	 and 	 strategy 	 set 	 by 	 the	
Board;
•	 leading 	 the 	 executive 	 management 	 in 	 the 	 day 	 to 	 day 	 running 	 of 	 the	
Company;
•	 ensuring 	 the 	 executive 	 management 	 set 	 out 	 and 	 implement 	 the	
Company’s culture, value and behaviours;
•	 supporting 	 the 	 Chairman 	 to 	 ensure 	 appropriate 	 standards 	 of 	 governance	
are adhered to throughout the Company.
The above are a summary of the division of duties of the Chairman and  
Chief Executive, a comprehensive list along with details of the role of the 
Non-Executive Directors can be found on the Company’s website. 24
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
coRpoRate GoveRnance continued
Elections
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that one third of the Directors 
retire by rotation each year at the Annual General Meeting which is in 
compliance with the Code. As a result of A R Heygate’s long association with 
the Company the Board have decided that it would be appropriate to require 
him to retire annually to ensure that the shareholders are able to approve his 
continued membership of the Board. In addition, as this year will be the first 
year’s AGM for C N C Holmes as Non-Executive Chairman, he will stand for 
re-election and it is also the first AGM for T J Davies and N Austin and they 
will both stand for election. 
Attendance & Agenda
In advance of all Board meetings the Directors are supplied with detailed 
and comprehensive papers covering the Group’s strategy and operations. 
Members of the executive management team can attend and make 
presentations as appropriate at meetings of the Board. The Company 
Secretary is responsible to the Board for the timeliness and quality of 
information.
Details of the number of meetings of, and members’ attendance at, the 
Board, Audit and Remuneration Committees during the period are set out  
in the table below:
  Audit Remuneration
 Board  Committee Committee
No. of meetings 11 2 4
   
W R Inglewood 11 2 4
C N C Holmes 11 —  1
R C Wood* 8 — —
A R Heygate 10 2 4
A G M Wannop 11 2 4
N Austin** 7 — —
T J Davies** 5 — —
* Number of meetings held until retirement
** Number of meeting held since joining the Company
The chart below shows the approximate time the Board has spent discussing 
agenda items during the year, separated into broad categories: 
 
In addition to the regular scheduled meetings throughout the year, 
unscheduled supplementary meetings may also take place as and when 
necessary, although during this financial year there was no reason to hold 
an unscheduled meeting. The Board meetings are structured to allow open 
discussion and all Directors participate in discussing strategy, financial 
performance and risk management.
Directors who are unable to attend a particular meeting receive relevant 
briefing papers and are given the opportunity to discuss any issues with the 
Chairman, the Chief Executive or the Group Finance Director.
Support 
Directors can obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense in performance of their duties as Directors. None of the Directors 
obtained independent professional advice in the period under review. 
All Directors have access to the advice and the services of the Company 
Secretary. In addition to these formal roles, the Non-Executive Directors have 
access to senior management of the business either by telephone or via 
involvement at informal meetings.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
The Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s Articles of Association require 
the Board to consider any potential conflicts of interest. The Board has a 
policy and procedures for managing and, where appropriate, authorising 
actual or potential conflicts of interest. Under those procedures, Directors  
are required to declare all directorships or other appointments to 
organisations that are not part of the Group and which could result in actual 
or potential conflicts of interest, as well as other situations which could result 
in a potential conflict of interest. 
The Board is required to review Directors’ actual or potential conflicts of 
interest at least annually. Directors are required to disclose proposed new 
appointments to the Chairman before taking them on, to ensure that any 
potential conflicts of interest can be identified and addressed appropriately. 
Any potential conflicts of interest in relation to proposed directors are 
considered by the Board prior to their appointment. In this financial year 
there have been no declared conflicts of interest.
Board Evaluation
For the first time an external facilitator, Independent Audit Ltd, was used to 
assist in the evaluation of the performance of the Board and its committees. 
The evaluation was based on questionnaires and conducted using 
Independent Audit’s web based tool “Thinking Board”. Each Director of the 
Board and the Company Secretary answered a series of questions designed 
to provide thorough consideration of a range of topics including strategy, risk, 
culture and the committees.
Independent Audit Ltd produced a report and made recommendations 
based on the responses. The Board found the evaluation exceptionally 
useful, in particular in focusing attention on how the Board can enhance its 
performance. The report highlighted some issues for further consideration 
and an action plan was created and is being implemented.
Independent Audit Ltd has no other relationship with the Company.
The Chairman appraised the individual performance of the Directors and the 
Non-Executives met and appraised the performance of the Chairman.
Board Committees
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee’s key function is to review the effectiveness of the 
Company’s financial reporting and internal controls.
The Audit Committee currently comprises the three Non-Executive Directors, 
A R Heygate (Chairman), C N C Holmes and A G M Wannop. The Board 
considers that the Company meets the main requirements of the Code for  
a company of Carr’s size.
The external auditors have the opportunity for direct access to the Committee 
without the Executive Directors being present. The Committee meets at least 
two times a year and such meetings involve a review of the Group’s interim 
and full year financial statements. 
Governance  8%
Strategy  44%
Finance/risk  18%
Capital Expenditure  10%
Operations  20% 25
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Under its terms of reference, the Committee is required amongst other 
things, to:
•	 monitor 	 the 	 integrity 	 of 	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 of 	 the 	 Company;	
•	 review , 	 understand 	 and 	 evaluate 	 the 	 Company’ s 	 internal 	 financial 	 risk,	
and other internal controls and their associated systems; 
•	 oversee 	 the 	 relationship 	 with 	 the 	 external 	 auditors, 	 making	
recommendations to the Board in relation to their appointment, 
remuneration and terms of engagement; 
•	 monitor 	 and 	 review 	 the 	 external 	 auditors’ 	 independence, 	 objectivity	
and effectiveness and to approve the policy on the engagement of the 
external auditors to supply non-audit services.
During the year and up to the date of this Annual Report the Committee has:
•	 reviewed 	 the 	 Committee’ s 	 terms 	 of 	 reference 	 and 	 its 	 effectiveness;	
•	 reviewed 	 the 	 annual 	 and 	 interim 	 financial 	 statements. 	 In 	 doing 	 so 	 the	
Committee reviewed significant accounting policies, financial reporting 
issues and judgements, together with the reports received from the 
external auditors on their audits; 
•	 reviewed 	 the 	 independence, 	 objectivity 	 and 	 fees 	 of 	 the 	 external 	 auditors	
and scope of audit and non-audit services.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP be re-appointed as the Company’s auditors.
As a result of its work during the year, the Committee has concluded that 
it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has ensured the 
independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the Annual General 
Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on  
the Committee’s activities.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee currently comprises A G M Wannop 
(Chairman), C N C Holmes and A R Heygate. N Austin attends meetings 
of the Committee by invitation and in an advisory capacity. No Director 
attends any part of a meeting at which his own remuneration is discussed. 
The Chairman and the Executive Directors determine the remuneration of 
the other Non-Executive Directors. The remuneration of the Chairman is 
determined by the Board. The Committee has access to advice from the 
Company Secretary and to detailed analysis of executive remuneration in 
comparable companies.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to:
•	 determine 	 the 	 total 	 remuneration 	 packages, 	 authorise 	 terms 	 and	
conditions, and contracts for the Board;
•	 approve 	 the 	 design 	 and 	 determine 	 the 	 targets 	 for 	 performance 	 related	
pay schemes of the Executive Directors;
•	 review 	 the 	 design 	 of 	 any 	 share 	 incentive 	 plans 	 for 	 approval 	 by 	 the 	 Board	
and shareholders.
Key issues reviewed this year:
•	 total 	 remuneration 	 and 	 review 	 of 	 base 	 pay;
•	 annual 	 earnings 	 of 	 the 	 Directors;
•	 the 	 introduction 	 of 	 the 	 L TIP 	 for 	 the 	 Executive 	 Directors 	 and 	 senior	
management.
Details of the Committee’s current remuneration policy are given in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 30.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee attends the Annual General 
Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the 
Committee’s activities.
Relations with Shareholders
The Board recognises and values the importance of good communications 
with all shareholders. The Group maintains dialogue with institutional 
shareholders and analysts, and hosts presentations on the preliminary  
and interim results. Shareholders have access to the Company’s website  
at www.carrs-milling.com.
We engage with our shareholders through our regular communications. 
Significant matters relating to trading or development of the business are 
disseminated to the market by way of Stock Exchange announcements.  
We announce our financial results on a six monthly basis with all 
shareholders receiving a half year report. In addition, we produce interim 
management statements. All reports and statements are made available on 
our website.
The Annual General Meeting provides all shareholders with the opportunity 
to develop further their understanding of the Company. It is the principal 
forum for all the Directors to engage in dialogue with private investors. All 
shareholders are given the opportunity to raise questions on any matter at 
the meeting. The Group aims to send notices of Annual General Meetings to 
shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting, as required by the 
Code, and it is the Company’s practice to indicate the proxy voting results on 
all resolutions at the meetings. Following the AGM the voting results for each 
resolution are published and are available on the Company’s website.
Going concern
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis, having 
satisfied themselves from a review of internal budgets and forecasts and 
current bank facilities that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Internal control
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Group’s systems 
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, including: financial, 
operational and compliance controls and risk management, which safeguard 
the shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets. Such a system can 
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the 
risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The Board of Directors is not aware of any significant losses caused by 
breaches of internal control in the period.
The Group operates within a clearly defined organisational structure with 
established responsibilities, authorities and reporting lines to the Board. The 
organisational structure has been designed in order to plan, execute, monitor 
and control the Group’s objectives effectively and to ensure that internal 
control becomes embedded in the operations. The Board confirms that 
the key on-going processes and features of the Group’s internal risk based 
control system, which accord with the Turnbull guidance, have been fully 
operative throughout the year and up to the date of the Annual Report being 
approved. These include: a process to identify and evaluate business risk; a 
strong control environment; an information and communication process; a 
monitoring system and a regular Board review for effectiveness. The Group 
Finance Director is responsible for overseeing the Group’s internal controls. 
The Group does not have an internal audit function as the Board consider 
that the Group has not yet reached a size where a separate internal audit 
function would be an appropriate or cost effective method of ensuring 
compliance with Group policies, and therefore does not currently propose to 
introduce a Group internal audit function. This area will be kept under review 
as part of the Board’s assessment of the Group’s systems of internal control. 26
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
coRpoRate GoveRnance continued
The management of the Group’s businesses identified the key business risks 
within their operations, considered the financial implications and assessed 
the effectiveness of the control processes in place to mitigate these risks. 
The Board reviewed a summary of the findings and this, along with direct 
involvement in the strategies of the businesses, investment appraisal and 
budgeting process, enabled the Board to report on the effectiveness of 
internal control. A summary of the key risks to the business is set out at 
pages 16 to 17.
Compliance with the Code
The Directors consider that the Company has, during the period ended  
31 August 2013, complied with the requirements of the Code other than as 
set out below:
•	 C 	 N 	 C 	 Holmes 	 retired 	 as 	 Chief 	 Executive 	 and 	 has 	 been 	 appointed 	 as	
Non-Executive Chairman. Major shareholders were consulted before the 
position was offered and they unanimously agreed with the decision. 
Due to C N C Holmes previous role as Chief Executive he does not fulfil 
the criteria of independence (A.3.1);
•	 the 	 Non-Executive 	 Director , 	 A 	 R 	 Heygate, 	 is 	 deemed 	 to 	 be 	 independent	
notwithstanding his long association with the Company and the fact that 
he represents a significant shareholder (B.1.1);
•	 the 	 members 	 of 	 the 	 Audit 	 Committee 	 are 	 deemed 	 not 	 to 	 have 	 recent	
and relevant financial experience in accordance with the Code (C.3.1). 
However, the Board believes their business knowledge and experience 
is sufficient to satisfy the Committee’s obligations;
•	 there 	 is 	 no 	 separate 	 Nominations 	 Committee 	 (B.2.1) 	 to 	 assess 	 and	
recommend new directors. Instead the Board as a whole considers 
these areas following initial scrutiny and recommendations by the Chief 
Executive and Chairman. However, it is anticipated that a Nominations 
Committee will be formed during the next financial year; and
•	 the 	 Senior 	 Independent 	 Director 	 (A 	 G 	 M 	 W annop) 	 does 	 not 	 meet 	 with	
major shareholders to discuss their issues/concerns, other than at the 
Annual General Meeting (E.1.1). However, a plan for meetings in this 
financial year is being formulated and will be implemented. Meanwhile, 
the Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director will maintain 
their contact with major shareholders, answer any of their concerns and 
present any issues to the Board for it to consider. 
By order of the Board
Katie Sinclair
Company Secretary
Carlisle
CA3 9BA
15 November 2013 27
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DiRectoRs’ RemuneRation RepoRt Information not subject to audit.
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible to the Board and during the 
year it comprised of A G M Wannop (Chairman), A R Heygate, and Lord 
Inglewood until his retirement on 28 February 2013 when C N C Holmes 
joined the Committee. The Group Finance Director attends the meetings 
when requested, and the Company Secretary attends the meetings as 
Secretary to the Committee. No individual is involved in decisions relating  
to their own remuneration.
Role of the Committee
The Committee:
•	 determines 	 the 	 Executive 	 Directors’ 	 remuneration;
•	 reviews 	 and 	 updates 	 the 	 remuneration 	 policy 	 of 	 the 	 company;
•	 formulates 	 and 	 approves 	 the 	 Executive 	 Directors’ 	 annual 	 bonus	
scheme;
•	 reviews, 	 updates 	 and 	 approves 	 the 	 Long 	 T erm 	 Incentive 	 Plan 	 (L TIP)	 
for the Executive Directors.
The Committee keeps up-to-date with developments in remuneration 
packages within industry and seeks external advice when necessary.
Remuneration Policy
The Group’s policy is that the overall remuneration package offered should 
be sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate high quality 
executives and to align the rewards of the executives with the progress of 
the Group whilst giving consideration to salary levels in similar sized quoted 
companies in the sector. The remuneration package is in two parts: 
•	 a 	 non-performance 	 part 	 represented 	 by 	 basic 	 salary 	 (including	
benefits); 
•	 a 	 significant 	 performance 	 related 	 element 	 in 	 the 	 form 	 of 	 a 	 profit 	 related	
bonus and LTIP . 
The details of individual components of the remuneration package and 
service contracts are set out below:
Element Opportunity Objective & Link to Strategy Performance Measure Changes for 2014
Base salary Salaries are reviewed 
annually, taking into 
account: performance, 
pay across the Group and 
market conditions
Reflects the role and the 
continuing value of the 
individual in terms of skills 
and experience
N/A No planned 
changes to 
current approach
Pension Executive Directors are 
entitled to participate in a 
pension arrangement with 
employer’s contributions 
set at 15% and employee 
contributions at 6% of 
Executive Directors’ base 
salary
Provides a framework to 
save for retirement
N/A Review to take 
place to ensure 
competitiveness 
in market place
Other benefits Entitlements include 
permanent health 
insurance, private medical 
insurance and life assurance
Broad competitiveness in 
market
N/A No planned 
changes to 
current approach
Annual bonus Up to 100% of base pay Designed to reward delivery 
of key strategic priorities 
during the year
The entire bonus is based on 
profit before tax with sliding scales 
depending on performance in excess 
of budget. 40% of the bonus is based 
on the performance of the Group. 60% 
of the bonus is split equally three ways 
and is based on the profit before tax of 
each division
No planned 
changes to 
current approach
Save As You Earn (SAYE) A SAYE share scheme 
is available to all eligible 
employees
SAYE options are available 
to eligible staff, including 
Executive Directors. A 
scheme is currently running 
for all employees as at  
1 April 2011 with a 20% 
discounted share price of 
£5.72. Employees can save 
up to £250 per month
N/A No planned 
change to current 
approach
Long Term Incentive Plan 
(LTIP)
100% of base pay LTIP awards are made 
to ensure the interests of 
Executive Directors are 
aligned with the long term 
interests and success of the 
Group. The Remuneration 
Committee has complete 
discretion to change the 
conditions of the award 
should deem it necessary
The first LTIP will mature in 2015, 
based on the EPS growth of the Group 
during the financial years 2012-2015. 
A minimum annual average growth 
EPS of 7.0% is required to vest 25% 
of the award. Thereafter a sliding scale 
arrangement is in place up to 100% of 
the award
Performance 
criteria are being 
amended to align 
with the Group’s 
medium term 
business plans 28
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
DiRectoRs’ RemuneRation RepoRt continued
Long Term Incentive Plan
The Remuneration Committee awards shares under the LTIP scheme in 
order to align Executive Directors and senior management interests with 
the long-term interests of shareholders. Vesting only occurs if certain 
performance criteria are achieved by the Group.
The shares will vest subject to an earnings per share (EPS) target measured 
against average annual increases over a three year period.
For the awards granted in 2013 an average annual growth of EPS must 
exceed 7.0% for 25% of the awards to vest, 50% vest at 8.1% and 100% 
vest at 10.2%, with a straight line calculation between 25%, 50% and 
100% of the award.
The Remuneration Committee, which decides whether performance 
conditions have been met, considers EPS to be the most appropriate 
measure for the long-term performance of the Group.
Pay and Conditions across the Group
Pay and employment conditions across the Group are taken into account 
when setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The Group operates in a number of different environments and has many 
employees carrying out diverse roles across a number of countries. All 
employees are paid by reference to market rate and base pay is reviewed 
annually. A number of performance related bonus schemes and an all 
employee Save As You Earn scheme operates across the Group. The Group 
offers employment conditions that are commensurate with a small size 
quoted company, including high standards of health and safety and equal 
opportunities.
Service Contracts
The Remuneration Committee’s current policy is not to enter into 
employment contracts with any element of notice period in excess of one 
year. The following are the contract commencement and cessation dates  
of the Executive Directors during the year:
T J Davies’ dated 18 October 2012 for service starting 1 March 2013 and 
N Austin’s dated 3 January 2013 for service commencing 1 January 2013 
shadowing R C Wood. N Austin commenced as a Director on 1 May 2013.
R C Wood’s most recently amended contract dated 8 September 2011 
ceased on his retirement on 30 April 2013. R C Wood has a consultancy 
agreement with Carr’s dated 1 May 2013 for provision of services relating  
to the Engineering division. The consultancy agreement is for a period for 
18 months. R C Wood is a self-employed contractor, not an employee.
C N C Holmes had a contract as Executive Director, which was most 
recently amended on 8 September 2011. This contract ceased on  
31 July 2013.
For early termination the Remuneration Committee will consider 
circumstances including any duty to mitigate, and determine any 
compensation payments accordingly. On change of control resulting  
in termination of office, T J Davies and N Austin are each entitled to  
12 months basic salary.
Non-Executive Directors
Each Non-Executive Director has an appointment letter, C N C Holmes 
from 1 August 2013 for 13 months, A G M Wannop and A R Heygate from 
6 September 2013 for 12 months. The continuing re-appointments are 
subject to compliance with the UK Code on Corporate Governance 2012, 
and therefore C N C Holmes and A G M Wannop will stand for election by 
rotation and A R Heygate will be subject to annual re-election.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the 
Executive Directors and reflects:
•	 the 	 time, 	 commitment 	 and 	 responsibility 	 of 	 their 	 roles;
•	 market 	 rate;
•	 that 	 they 	 do 	 not 	 participate 	 in 	 any 	 bonus, 	 pension 	 or 	 share 	 based	
scheme. However, C N C Holmes’ participation in the Save As Your 
Earn Scheme will cease in accordance with the rules, with exercise 
occurring between November 2013 and May 2014.
Performance Graph
The following graph illustrates the 
Company’s total shareholder return 
performance since 31 August 2008 
relative to the FTSE All-share index. 
The Company considers that the 
FTSE All-share index to be the most 
appropriate comparator group as it is a 
broad index and reflects the Company’s 
broad range of activities.
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
FTSE All-Share Price Index
Source: Thomson Datastream
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
300
250
150
200
100
50
0 29
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
   2013 2012
   £’000 £’000
Salary and fees   724 656
Bonuses   617 528
Benefits   28 20
   1,369 1,204
Pension contribution    28  —
   1,397 1,204
Aggregate notional gains by Directors on exercise of options    —  —
Individual Directors’ remuneration, including pension contributions:
Directors’ Remuneration
         
 Fees and   2013 2012 2013 2012 
 Basic Annual  Total Total Pension Pension
 Salary Bonus Benefits Emoluments Emoluments Contributions Contributions
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive Directors
C N C Holmes to 31 July  261 261  1  523   573  —  — 
R C Wood to 30 April 169 169  1  339  503  —   —
T Davies 125 125  14  264  —  19  —
N Austin from 1 May  62  62  12  136  —  9  — 
 
Non-Executive Directors
W R Inglewood to 28 February 31  —  —  31  60  —  — 
A R Heygate  35  —  —  35  34  —  — 
A G M Wannop 35  —  —  35  34  —  —
C N C Holmes from 1 August  6  —  —  6  —  —  —
 724 617  28 1,369  1,204  28  —
2013 Cash Flow Distribution to Stakeholders
The below chart indicates the Directors’ aggregate total remuneration in the year alongside the cash outflows to other stakeholders.
The aggregate total for the Directors’ remuneration amounts to 2% of the Group’s operating cash flow.
Information subject to audit
The remuneration of the Directors for the period was as follows:
Staff payment including pension  66%
Tax  5%
Shareholders  5%
Investing in activities  22%
Directors  2% 30
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
DiRectoRs’ RemuneRation RepoRt continued
Savings Related Share Option Scheme
     Weighted
  At Granted At average 
  2 September in the 31 August exercise Range of
  2012 period 2013 price exercise
  Number Number Number p dates
C N C Holmes 656 525 1,181 572 30 November 2013
      31 May 2014
R C Wood 656 525 1,181 572 30 November 2013
      31 May 2014
By order of the Board
Katie Sinclair
Company Secretary
15 November 2013 31
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
inDepenDent auDitoRs’ RepoRt to the membeRs of caRR’s millinG inDustRies plc
We have audited the financial statements of Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 
for the period ended 31 August 2013 which comprise the Consolidated 
Income Statement, the Consolidated and Company Statements of 
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, 
the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Company Statement 
of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Company Statement of Cash 
Flows, the principal accounting policies and the related notes. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union and, as regards the parent Company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set 
out on page 22, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with 
the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the 
Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving 
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to 
any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent Company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 
annual report and accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our 
report.
 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
•	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 give 	 a 	 true 	 and 	 fair 	 view 	 of 	 the 	 state 	 of 	 the	
Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at 31 August 2013 and 
of the Group’s profit and Group’s and parent Company’s cash flows for 
the period then ended;
•	 the 	 Group 	 financial 	 statements 	 have 	 been 	 properly 	 prepared 	 in	
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
•	 the 	 parent 	 Company 	 financial 	 statements 	 have 	 been 	 properly 	 prepared	
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as 
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; 
and
•	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 have 	 been 	 prepared 	 in 	 accordance 	 with 	 the	
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
•	 the 	 part 	 of 	 the 	 Directors’ 	 Remuneration 	 Report 	 to 	 be 	 audited 	 has 	 been	
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006;
•	 the 	 information 	 given 	 in 	 the 	 Report 	 of 	 the 	 Directors 	 for 	 the 	 financial	
period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the financial statements; and
•	 the 	 information 	 given 	 in 	 the 	 Corporate 	 Governance 	 Statement 	 set	
out on pages 23 to 26 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems and about share capital structures is consistent 
with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion: 
•	 adequate 	 accounting 	 records 	 have 	 not 	 been 	 kept 	 by 	 the 	 parent	
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or 
•	 the 	 parent 	 Company 	 financial 	 statements 	 and 	 the 	 part 	 of 	 the 	 Directors’	
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or 
•	 certain 	 disclosures 	 of 	 Directors’ 	 remuneration 	 specified 	 by 	 law 	 are 	 not	
made; or 
•	 we 	 have 	 not 	 received 	 all 	 the 	 information 	 and 	 explanations 	 we 	 require	
for our audit; or
•	 a 	 corporate 	 governance 	 statement 	 has 	 not 	 been 	 prepared 	 by 	 the	
parent Company. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
•	 the 	 Directors’ 	 statement, 	 set 	 out 	 on 	 page 	 25, 	 in 	 relation 	 to 	 going	
concern;
•	 the 	 parts 	 of 	 the 	 Corporate 	 Governance 	 Statement 	 relating 	 to 	 the	
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review; and
•	 certain 	 elements 	 of 	 the 	 report 	 to 	 shareholders 	 by 	 the 	 Board 	 on	
Directors’ remuneration.
Mark Webster (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Newcastle Upon Tyne
15 November 2013 32
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
consoliDateD income statement for the period ended 31 August 2013
  52 week 52 week
  period period
  2013 2012
 Notes £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Revenue 2 468,083 404,058
Cost of sales  (419,270) (360,124)
Gross profit  48,813 43,934
Distribution costs  (21,001) (18,362)
Administrative expenses  (14,005) (13,501)
Group operating profit 3 13,807 12,071
Profit on disposal of property and investment  — 282
Finance income 5 513 673
Finance costs 5 (1,318) (1,348)
Share of post-tax profit in associate  1,953 1,180
Share of post-tax profit in joint ventures  916 201
Profit before taxation 2 15,871 13,059
Taxation 6 (3,130) (2,954)
Profit for the period from continuing operations  12,741 10,105
Discontinued operations
Loss for the period from discontinued operations  — (202)
Profit for the period  12,741 9,903
Profit attributable to:
Equity shareholders  11,427 8,510
Minority interests   1,314 1,393
  12,741 9,903 
Basic earnings per ordinary share (pence) 
Profit from continuing operations  128.7 98.2
Loss from discontinued operations  — (2.3)
 8 128.7 95.9
Diluted earnings per ordinary share (pence) 
Profit from continuing operations  126.4 97.5
Loss from discontinued operations  — (2.3)
 8 126.4 95.2 33
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
consoliDateD anD company statements of compRehensive income for the period ended 31 August 2013
 Group Company
   52 week 52 week 52 week 52 week
   period period period period
   2013 2012 2013 2012
  Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit for the period  12,741 9,903 10,449 508
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Foreign exchange translation gains/(losses) arising  
 on translation of overseas subsidiaries  231 (235) (365) 121
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligation:
 – Group 24 (566) (2,686) (566) (2,686)
 – Share of associate  (40) (419) — —
Taxation credit on actuarial losses on retirement 
  benefit obligation:
 – Group 16 113 618 113 618
 – Share of associate  8 96 — —
Other comprehensive expense for the period, net of tax  (254) (2,626) (818) (1,947)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the period  12,487 7,277 9,631 (1,439)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) attributable to:
Equity shareholders  11,173 5,884 9,631 (1,439)
Minority interests  1,314 1,393 — —
   12,487 7,277 9,631 (1,439) 34
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
consoliDateD anD company balance sheets as at 31 August 2013
 Group Company
   52 week 52 week 52 week 52 week
   period period period period
   2013 2012 2013 2012
  Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets
Non-current assets   
Goodwill 9 5,215 5,199 — —
Other intangible assets 9 615 728 — —
Property, plant and equipment 10 53,068 37,158 — —
Investment property 11 675 1,005 — —
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 12,15 — — 12,647 12,558
Investment in associate 12,13 7,024 5,103 1,470 1,470
Interest in joint ventures 12,14 3,299 2,907 272 272
Other investments 12 72 71 — —
Financial assets
– Non-current receivables 18 1 2 — 775
Deferred tax assets 16 2,044 2,480 655 1,248
   72,013 54,653 15,044 16,323
Current assets
Inventories  17 33,445 27,128 — —
Trade and other receivables  18 66,434 59,651 28,191 19,266
Current tax assets 19 178 — 991 1,469
Financial assets
– Derivative financial instruments 23 2 — — —
– Cash and cash equivalents  20 22,884 23,294 19,822 22,736
   122,943 110,073 49,004 43,471
Total assets   194,956 164,726 64,048 59,794
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
– Borrowings 22 (15,545) (14,176) (1,290) (10,429)
– Derivative financial instruments 23 (8) (309) — (70)
Trade and other payables 21 (58,282) (56,108) (1,625) (1,747)
Current tax liabilities  (1,639) (1,552) — —
    (75,474) (72,145) (2,915) (12,246)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
– Borrowings 22 (29,448) (11,573) (15,822) (7,470)
Retirement benefit obligation  24 (3,272) (5,351) (3,272) (5,351)
Deferred tax liabilities 16 (3,765) (3,733) — —
Other non-current liabilities 21 (4,956) (4,064) — —
   (41,441) (24,721) (19,094) (12,821)
Total liabilities  (116,915) (96,866) (22,009) (25,067)
Net assets   78,041 67,860 42,039 34,727
Shareholders’ equity
Share capital  25 2,223 2,219 2,223 2,219
Share premium   8,183 8,118 8,183 8,118
Equity compensation reserve  326 113 373 142
Foreign exchange reserve  415 160 (221) 144
Other reserve   888 901 — —
Retained earnings   57,396 49,075 31,481 24,104
Total shareholders’ equity  69,431 60,586 42,039 34,727
Minority interests in equity  8,610 7,274 — —
Total equity   78,041 67,860 42,039 34,727
The financial statements set out on pages 32 to 79 were approved by the Board on 15 November 2013 and signed on its behalf by:
Timothy J Davies Neil Austin 35
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
consoliDateD statement of chanGes in equity for the period ended 31 August 2013
    Equity Foreign   Total 
  Share Share Compensation Exchange Other  Retained Shareholders’ Minority  Total
  Capital Premium Reserve  Reserve Reserve Earnings Equity Interests Equity
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 4 September 2011  2,216 8,059 84 360 913 45,343 56,975 5,869 62,844
Profit for the period — — — — — 8,510 8,510 1,393 9,903
Other comprehensive expense — — — (235) — (2,391) (2,626) — (2,626)
Total comprehensive 
 (expense)/income — — — (235) — 6,119 5,884 1,393 7,277
Dividends paid — — — — — (2,372) (2,372) — (2,372)
Equity settled share-  
 based payment  
 transactions, net of tax — — 29 — — 8 37 12 49
Allotment of shares 3 59 — — — — 62 — 62
Transfer — — — 35 (12) (23) — — —
At 1 September 2012 2,219 8,118 113 160 901 49,075 60,586 7,274 67,860
At 2 September 2012  2,219 8,118 113 160 901 49,075 60,586 7,274 67,860
Profit for the period — — — — — 11,427 11,427 1,314 12,741
Other comprehensive 
 income/(expense) — — — 231 — (485) (254) — (254)
Total comprehensive income — — — 231 — 10,942 11,173 1,314 12,487
Dividends paid — — — — — (2,619) (2,619) — (2,619)
Equity settled share-  
 based payment  
 transactions, net of tax — — 213 — — 9 222 22 244
Allotment of shares 4 65 — — — — 69 — 69
Transfer — — — 24 (13) (11) — — —
At 31 August 2013 2,223 8,183 326 415 888 57,396 69,431 8,610 78,041
The equity compensation reserve reflects the cumulative spreading, at the balance sheet date, of the fair value of the share schemes over the vesting 
periods. The movement on the equity compensation reserve is taken through the income statement. During the period £9,000 (2012: £8,000) was 
transferred from the equity compensation reserve to retained earnings in respect of the cumulative spreading on options exercised in the period.
The Group has opted to use previous revaluations of property made under UK GAAP as deemed cost. On adoption of IFRS the revaluation reserve  
was reclassified to other reserves. 36
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
    Equity Foreign   
  Share Share Compensation Exchange Retained Total
  Capital Premium Reserve  Reserve Earnings Equity
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 4 September 2011 2,216 8,059 107 23 28,036 38,441
Profit for the period — — — — 508 508
Other comprehensive income/(expense) — — — 121 (2,068) (1,947)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) — — — 121 (1,560) (1,439)
Dividends paid — — — — (2,372) (2,372)
Equity settled share-based payment 
 transactions, net of tax — — 35 — — 35
Allotment of shares 3 59 — — — 62
At 1 September 2012 2,219 8,118 142 144 24,104 34,727
At 2 September 2012 2,219 8,118 142 144 24,104 34,727
Profit for the period — — — — 10,449 10,449
Other comprehensive expense — — — (365) (453) (818)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income — — — (365) 9,996 9,631
Dividends paid — — — — (2,619) (2,619)
Equity settled share-based payment 
 transactions, net of tax — — 231 — — 231
Allotment of shares 4 65 — — — 69
At 31 August 2013 2,223 8,183 373 (221) 31,481 42,039
The equity compensation reserve reflects the cumulative spreading, at the balance sheet date, of the fair value of the share schemes over the vesting 
periods. The movement on the equity compensation reserve is taken through the income statement where it relates to employees of the Company and to 
investment in subsidiaries where it relates to employees of the subsidiaries. During the period £13,000 (2012: £14,000) was transferred from the equity 
compensation reserve to investment in subsidiaries in respect of the cumulative spreading on options exercised in the period.
 
company statement of chanGes in equity for the period ended 31 August 2013 37
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
consoliDateD anD company statements of cash flows for the period ended 31 August 2013
 Group Company
   52 week 52 week 52 week 52 week
   period period period period
   2013 2012 2013 2012
  Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 28 7,233 11,974 (4,283) (5,318)
Interest received  746 434 1,242 603
Interest paid  (1,280) (1,385) (566) (556)
Tax (paid)/recovered  (2,707) (2,710) 901 461
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities  3,992 8,313 (2,706) (4,810)
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of overdraft acquired) 27 (810) (2,063) — —
Disposal of subsidiary  — (350) — —
Dividends received from subsidiaries  — — 5,658 2,220
Net (payment)/receipt of loans to subsidiaries  — — (7,178) 500
Loan to joint ventures  (807) (881) (862) (543)
Purchase of intangible assets  (108) (54) — —
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment   221 643 — —
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (9,937) (8,855) — —
Proceeds from sale of investment property  268 94 — —
Purchase of investment property  — (300) — —
Purchase of investments  (26) (4) (25) —
Disposal of investment  10 107 10 107
Redemption of preference shares in joint venture  150 100 — —
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities  (11,039) (11,563) (2,397) 2,284
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital  25 68 62 68 62
Net (payment)/receipt of loans from subsidiaries  — — (3,702) 5,225
Net proceeds/(costs) from issue of new bank loans  11,581 2,381 9,134 (119)
Finance lease principal repayments  (1,118) (940) — —
Repayment of borrowings  (1,333) (5,911) (833) (5,661)
(Decrease)/increase in other borrowings  (193) 628 — —
Dividends paid to shareholders 7 (2,619) (2,372) (2,619) (2,372)
Receipt of grant income  350 — — —
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities  6,736 (6,152) 2,048 (2,865)
Effects of exchange rate changes  110 (171) 141 (157)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents   (201) (9,573) (2,914) (5,548)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 20 22,876 32,449 22,736 28,284
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period  20 22,675 22,876 19,822 22,736 38
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
pRincipal accountinG policies
Basis of accounting
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern 
basis in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) and IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European Union (EU) 
and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRS.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled 
in England and Wales whose shares are listed and traded on the London 
Stock Exchange. The address of its registered office is Old Croft, Stanwix, 
Carlisle, CA3 9BA.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the 
date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and 
expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates are based 
on management’s best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual 
results ultimately may differ materially from the estimates.
Accounting policies have been applied consistently, other than where new 
policies have been adopted.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historic cost 
convention as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and financial 
liabilities (including derivative financial instruments) at fair value through 
profit or loss.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise Carr’s Milling Industries 
PLC and all its subsidiaries, together with the Group’s share of the 
results of its associate and joint ventures. The financial information of 
the subsidiaries, associate and joint ventures is prepared as of the same 
reporting date and consolidated using consistent accounting policies. 
Group inter-company balances and transactions, including any unrealised 
profits arising from Group inter-company transactions, are eliminated in 
full. Profits and losses on transactions with the associate and joint ventures 
are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the current and prior 
financial period were included in the financial statements from the effective 
date of control. The separable net assets, both tangible and intangible,  
of the acquired subsidiary undertakings were incorporated into the financial 
statements on the basis of the fair value as at the effective date of the 
Group acquiring control.
Subsidiaries are entities where the Group has the power to govern the 
financial and operating policies, generally accompanied by a share of more 
than 50% of the voting rights. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date 
on which control is transferred to the Group and are included until the date 
on which the Group ceases to control them. 
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence 
but not control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 
50% of the voting rights. Joint ventures are entities over which the Group 
has joint control, established by contractual agreement. Investments in 
associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. 
The Group’s share of its associate and joint ventures’ post-tax profits or 
losses are recognised in the income statement, and its share of movement 
in reserves is recognised in reserves. The cumulative movements are 
adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment. The Group’s 
investment in associate and joint ventures includes any goodwill arising on 
acquisition. If the Group’s share of losses in an associate or joint venture 
equals or exceeds its investment in the associate or joint venture, the 
Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations 
or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture. Losses in 
the prior period have been recognised against loan balances due from joint 
ventures where those loans are deemed to be, in substance, part of the 
permanent equity interest in the joint ventures.
All subsidiaries are accounted for by applying the purchase method.  
The cost of a business combination is measured as the aggregate of the 
fair values, at the acquisition date, of the assets given, liabilities incurred 
or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group. The identifiable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree are measured 
initially at fair value at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any 
minority interest. The excess of the cost of the business combination over 
the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities 
and contingent liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
Acquisition related costs are expensed to the income statement in the 
period they are incurred.
The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority interests 
as transactions with parties external to the Group.
Employee share trust
Standing Interpretations Committee (SIC) 12 requires that the Group 
consolidate a special purpose entity where the substance of the 
relationship between the parties indicates that the Group controls the 
entity. The employee share trust sponsored by the Group falls within this 
category of special purpose entity and has been accounted for as if it were, 
in substance, a subsidiary.
Currency translation
The financial statements for the Group’s subsidiaries, associate and joint 
ventures are prepared using their functional currency. The functional 
currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which  
an entity operates. The presentation currency of the Group is Sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency 
using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Exchange 
differences resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the 
translation, at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date, of monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional 
currency are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The balance sheets of foreign operations are translated into sterling using 
the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income statements 
are translated into sterling using the average exchange rate for the period. 
Where this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative 
effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, the exchange rate on 
the transaction date is used. Exchange differences arising are recognised 
as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. On disposal of a foreign 
operation any cumulative exchange differences held in shareholders’ equity 
are transferred to the consolidated income statement.
Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods or services is measured at the fair value  
of the consideration, net of rebates and excluding value added tax. 
Revenue from the sale of goods or services is recognised when the Group 
has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods 
to the buyer, when the amount of revenue can be measured reliably 
and when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the 
transaction will flow to the Group. Inter segmental transactions are on an 
arm’s length basis. 
In respect of construction contracts, revenue is calculated on the basis  
of the stage of completion and the total sales value of each contract. 39
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The stage of completion is determined as the proportion that contract 
costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the total estimated total 
contract costs. No profit is recognised until a contract is at least 30% 
complete. Amounts invoiced for work completed are deducted from the 
selling price, while amounts invoiced in excess of work completed are 
recognised as current liabilities.
Where it is probable that contract costs will exceed total contract revenue 
the expected loss is recognised immediately as an expense in the 
consolidated income statement.
Retirement benefit obligations
The Group participates in two defined benefit pension schemes, Carr’s 
Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 and Carrs Billington Agriculture 
Pension Scheme. The Group also offers various defined contribution 
schemes to its employees.
The assets of the above named schemes are held separately from those  
of the Group and are invested with independent investment managers.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the 
consolidated income statement in the period to which they relate.
The liability recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at the period 
end in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is the present value of 
the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value 
of scheme assets. Independent actuaries calculate the defined benefit 
obligation annually using the projected unit credit method. The present 
value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the 
estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate 
bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be 
paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the 
related pension liability.
The current service costs are included in operating profit in the 
consolidated income statement.
A charge is made within net operating expenses which represents the 
expected increase in the liabilities of the pension schemes during the 
period. This arises from the liabilities of the schemes being one year closer 
to payment.
A credit representing the expected return on the assets of the pension 
schemes during the period is netted against the above charge within net 
operating expenses. This is based on the market value of the assets of 
the schemes at the start of the financial period. Actuarial gains and losses 
arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions 
are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 
The pension schemes’ deficits or surpluses, to the extent that they are 
considered recoverable, are recognised in full on the consolidated balance 
sheet.
The Group’s share of the deficit in the Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension 
Scheme is recognised through its investment in associate.
Share based payments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain 
employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair 
value at the date of the grant. The fair value determined at the grant date 
of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line 
basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that 
will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a valuation model. The expected life used 
in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, 
for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural 
considerations.
At each balance sheet date the Group revises its estimate of the number of 
options that are expected to vest. Changes to the fair value recognised as a 
result of this are charged or credited to the consolidated income statement 
with a corresponding adjustment to the equity compensation reserve.
Interest
Interest is recognised in the consolidated income statement on an accruals 
basis using the effective interest method. 
Operating segments
The Group has adopted the requirements of IFRS8 ‘Operating segments’. 
The standard requires operating segments to be identified on the basis 
of internal financial information about components of the Group that are 
regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’) to 
allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.  
The CODM has been identified as the Board of Directors.
The Board considers the business from a product/services perspective. 
Operating segments have been identified as Agriculture, Food and 
Engineering.
Non-recurring items
Non-recurring items that are material by size and/or by nature are 
presented within their relevant income statement category. Items that 
management consider fall into this category are disclosed within a note 
to the financial statements. The separate disclosure of non-recurring 
items helps provide a better indication of the Group’s underlying business 
performance. Events which may give rise to non-recurring items include, 
but are not limited to, gains or losses on the disposal of businesses, 
derivative gains or losses in respect of capital expenditure, gains or losses 
on the disposal of properties, gains or losses on the disposal of material 
investments, the restructuring of businesses, the integration of new 
businesses and asset impairments.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of 
acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of the acquisition. 
At the date of acquisition, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units  
for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset, which is carried at cost less 
impairment, and assessed for impairment annually. Any impairment 
is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement. 
Once recognised, an impairment of goodwill is not reversed under any 
circumstance.
Where a business combination results in an excess of the acquirer’s 
interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost, the excess is credited to the 
consolidated income statement in the period of acquisition.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 31 August 1998 
has not been reinstated and would not form part of the gain or loss on the 
disposal of a business.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation commences when 
assets are available for use. The expected useful lives, over which the 
assets are amortised, are generally as follows:
Customer relationships 1 - 5 years
Brands 15 - 20 years
Know-how 5 years
Patents and trademarks contractual life
Software 3 - 10 years 40
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
pRincipal accountinG policies continued
Customer relationships and brands are amortised in line with the profit 
and income streams they are respectively expected to generate over their 
expected useful life.
Know-how, patents, trademarks and software are amortised on a straight-
line basis.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination  
is the fair value at the acquisition date. The cost of separately acquired 
intangible assets comprises the purchase price and any directly attributable 
costs of preparing the assets for use.
Research and development costs
All research costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement as 
incurred. Development costs are recognised as an asset only to the extent 
that specific recognition criteria, as set out in IAS38 ‘Intangible assets’, 
relevant to the proposed application are met and the amount recognised is 
recoverable through future economic benefits.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises 
purchase price and directly attributable costs. 
Freehold land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated. 
For all other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is calculated on 
a straight-line basis to allocate cost less residual values of the assets over 
their estimated useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings up to 50 years
Leasehold buildings shorter of 50 years or lease term
Plant and equipment 3 to 20 years
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, 
at each financial period-end.
Assets not fully constructed at the balance sheet date are classified as 
assets in the course of construction. When construction is complete these 
assets are reclassified to the appropriate heading within property, plant and 
equipment. Depreciation commences when the asset is ready for use.
The cost of maintenance, repairs and minor equipment is charged to the 
consolidated income statement as incurred; the cost of major renovations 
and improvements is capitalised.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds 
with the carrying amount and are recognised within the consolidated 
income statement.
Investment property
Investment properties are properties held for long-term rental yields. 
Investment properties are carried in the balance sheet at cost less 
accumulated depreciation. Freehold land is not depreciated. For all other 
investment property, depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis to 
allocate cost less residual values of the assets over their estimated useful 
lives as follows:
Freehold buildings  up to 50 years
The cost of maintenance, repairs and minor equipment is charged to the 
consolidated income statement as incurred; the cost of major renovations 
and improvements is capitalised.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds 
with the carrying amount and are recognised within the consolidated 
income statement.
Impairment of non-financial assets
Non-financial assets are reviewed for impairment where there are 
any events or changes in circumstances that would indicate potential 
impairment. In addition, at each reporting date, the Group assesses 
whether there is any indication that goodwill may be impaired. Where an 
indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes an estimate of recoverable 
amount. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable 
amount the asset is written down to its recoverable amount. Recoverable 
amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use and is 
deemed for an individual asset. If the asset does not generate cash flows 
that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, 
the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset 
belongs is determined. Discount rates reflecting the asset specific risks  
and the time value of money are used for the value in use calculation.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost 
comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and 
those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their 
present location and condition. Where appropriate, cost is calculated on a 
specific identification basis. Otherwise inventories are valued using the first-
in first-out method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated 
costs to completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and 
distribution.
Provision has been made, where necessary, for slow moving, obsolete and 
defective inventories.
Contract work in progress is measured at the selling price of the work 
performed at the balance sheet date. The selling price is measured by 
reference to the stage of completion at the balance sheet date and total 
expected income from the contract work. 
Progress payments received are deducted from the value of work in 
progress except to the extent that payments on account exceed the value 
of work in progress on any contract where the excess is included in trade 
and other payables.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated statement 
of cash flows comprise cash at bank and in hand, money market deposits 
and other short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of 
three months or less and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are presented  
in borrowings within current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
Grants
Grants received on capital expenditure are recorded as deferred income 
and taken to the consolidated income statement in equal annual 
instalments over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned. 
Revenue grants and contributions are taken to the consolidated income 
statement in the period to which they apply.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases at inception where substantially all 
of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group. Assets 
classified as finance leases are capitalised on the consolidated balance 
sheet and are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset 
and the term of the lease. The interest element of the rental obligations is 
charged to the consolidated income statement over the period of the lease 
using the actuarial method. 41
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the consolidated 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Leasehold land is normally classified as an operating lease. Payments 
made to acquire leasehold land are included in prepayments at cost 
and are amortised over the life of the lease. Any incentives to enter into 
operating leases are recognised as a reduction of rental expense over the 
lease term on a straight-line basis.
Tax
The tax charge comprises current tax and deferred tax.
The current tax charge represents an estimate of the amounts payable to 
tax authorities in respect of the Group’s taxable profits.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary 
differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their 
carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax 
arising from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other 
than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects 
neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, is not recognised. Deferred 
tax is measured using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the 
asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments 
in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the Group is 
able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it 
is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable 
future.
Tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement, unless the tax 
relates to items recognised directly in shareholders’ equity, in which 
case the tax is recognised directly in shareholders’ equity through the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Dividends
Final equity dividends to the shareholders of the Company are recognised 
in the period that they are approved by the shareholders. Interim equity 
dividends are recognised in the period that they are paid.
Dividends receivable are recognised in the period in which they are 
received.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s consolidated 
balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables  
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less 
provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables 
is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not 
be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the 
receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that 
the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default 
or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade 
receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference 
between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated 
future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. The 
carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance 
account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the consolidated 
income statement. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written  
off against the allowance account for trade receivables. 
Investments
Investments are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.  
They are classified as ‘held to maturity’ and are measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method.
Equity investments that do not have a quoted market price in an active 
market and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured by other means 
are held at cost. 
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the 
substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.  
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in 
the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recognised initially at fair value 
net of direct issue costs and are subsequently stated at amortised cost. 
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption 
and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an effective interest method 
and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that 
they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds 
received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
The Group primarily uses forward foreign currency contracts and currency 
swaps to manage its exposures to fluctuating foreign exchange rates.  
These instruments are initially recognised at fair value and are 
subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each balance sheet date. 
The Group’s policy is to hedge its international assets and it has designated 
foreign currency borrowings as a hedge against net investment in foreign 
operations. The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge 
a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined as an effective 
hedge is recognised directly in equity. The gain or loss on any ineffective 
portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the consolidated income 
statement.
Fair valuation
Fair values are based on market values, where available. Where market 
values are not readily available, the Group establishes fair valuation 
techniques; these include the use of recent arm’s length transactions, 
reference to other similar instruments and discounted cash flow analysis. 42
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
pRincipal accountinG policies continued
New standards and interpretations
From 2 September 2012 the following amendments became effective and were adopted by the Group:
•	 Amendment 	to 	IAS 	12 	‘Income 	taxes’ 	on 	deferred 	tax 	– 	The 	amendment 	introduces 	an 	exception 	to 	the 	existing 	principle 	for 	the 	measurement 	of	
deferred tax assets or liabilities arising on investment property measured at fair value.
•	 Amendment 	to 	IAS 	1, 	‘Presentation 	of 	financial 	statements’ 	on 	OCI 	– 	The 	main 	change 	resulting 	from 	these 	amendments 	is 	a 	requirement 	for 	entities	
to group items presented in other comprehensive income (OCI) on the basis of whether they are potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss subsequently 
(reclassification adjustments).
•	 Amendment 	to 	IFRS 	7, 	Financial 	instruments: 	T ransfers 	of 	financial 	assets 	– 	The 	amendments 	promote 	transparency 	in 	the 	reporting 	of 	transfer	
transactions and improve users’ understanding of the risk exposures relating to transfers of financial assets and the effect of those risks on an entity’s 
financial position, particularly those involving securitisation of financial assets.
The adoption of these amendments has had no impact on the Group’s profit for the year or equity. 
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not yet effective and not early adopted.
 Effective for periods commencing on or after
IFRS 9: ‘Financial instruments’  1 January 2015
IFRS 10: ‘Consolidated financial statements’  1 January 2014
IFRS 11: ‘Joint arrangements’ 1 January 2014
IFRS 12: ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’  1 January 2014
IFRS 13: ‘Fair value measurement’  1 January 2013
IAS 27 (revised 2011): ‘Separate financial statements’  1 January 2014
IAS 28 (revised 2011): ‘Associates and joint ventures’  1 January 2014
Amendments to IFRS 7 on ‘Financial instruments’ asset and liability offsetting 1 January 2013
Amendments to IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statements’, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 for investment entities 1 January 2014
Amendments to IFRS 10, 11 and 12 on transition guidance 1 January 2014
Amendment to IAS 19: (revised 2011) ‘Employee benefits’  1 January 2013
Amendments to IAS 32 on Financial instruments asset and liability offsetting 1 January 2014
Amendments to IAS 36, ‘Impairment of assets’ 1 January 2014
Annual improvements to IFRSs 2011 and effective for 2014 1 January 2013
It is considered that the above standards, amendments and interpretations will not have a significant effect on the results or net assets of the Group but will 
increase the level of disclosure to be made in the financial statements.
Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates
Application of certain Group accounting policies requires management to 
make judgements, assumptions and estimates concerning the future as 
detailed below.
Valuation of pension obligations
The valuation of the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme is determined 
each period following advice from the Group’s actuary and can fluctuate 
based on a number of external factors. Such factors include the major 
assumptions as shown in the table in note 24 and actual returns on scheme 
assets compared to those predicted in the previous scheme valuation.
Valuation of share-based payments
The fair value of share-based payments is determined using valuation 
models and is charged to the consolidated income statement over the 
vesting period.
The valuation models require certain assumptions to be made as shown in 
the tables in note 26. Estimations of vesting and satisfaction of performance 
criteria are required to determine fair value.
Impairment of goodwill
The carrying value of goodwill must be assessed for impairment annually, 
or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. 
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units 
to which goodwill is allocated. Value in use is dependent on estimations 
of future cash flows from the cash generating unit and the use of an 
appropriate discount rate to discount those cash flows to their present value.
No impairment has been identified in the period (note 9).
Revenue recognition on construction contracts
Under long term contracts, the Group recognises revenue and profits based 
on the percentage completion method. This requires management to make 
an assessment of the overall profitability and the stage of completion of 
the entire contract in order to determine the level of revenue and profit to 
recognise.
Provision for impairment of trade receivables
The financial statements include a provision for impairment of trade 
receivables (note 18) that is based on management’s estimation of 
recoverability. There is a risk that the provision will not match the trade 
receivables that ultimately prove to be irrecoverable.
Valuation of derivative financial instruments
The fair value of derivative financial instruments (note 23) is determined 
using market factors at the period end over which management have no 
control. Such factors include the estimation of future currency exchange 
rates. In addition the fair value of such instruments is affected by the global 
economic environment and financial institution pricing structures.  43
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
notes to the financial statements
1 The Company has taken advantage of the exemption, under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, from presenting its own income statement.  
The profit after tax for the period dealt with in the accounts of the Company was £10,449,000 (2012: £508,000).
2 Segmental information        
The chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) has been identified as the Board of Directors. Management has identified the operating segments based 
on internal financial information reviewed by the Board. The Board considers the business from a product/services perspective. Operating segments have 
been identified as Agriculture, Food and Engineering. Operating segments have not been aggregated for the purpose of determining reportable segments. 
Agriculture aims to provide for all farming requirements. It derives its revenue from the sale of animal feed and feed blocks together with retail sales of farm 
equipment, fuels and farm consumables.
Food derives its revenues from the milling of wheat into flour. Customers range from the larger companies, bread and biscuit manufacturers and 
supermarkets, to smaller owner managed bakeries. 
Engineering derives its revenues from the design and manufacture of remote handling equipment for use in research and nuclear industries. In addition 
the UK business is involved in the design and manufacture of pressure vessels for the oil, petrochemical and gas industry. 
        
Performance is assessed using profit before taxation. For internal purposes profit before taxation is measured in a manner consistent with that in the 
financial statements, with the exception of material non-recurring items, which are excluded.       
 
Inter-segmental transactions are all undertaken on an arm’s length basis.
Adjustments to segmental information and amounts classified as ‘other’ represents non-reportable segments and consolidation adjustments.
Segment assets for Agriculture, Food and Engineering represent inventories and trade receivables as reported to the CODM.    
          
As segment liabilities are not reviewed by the CODM they are not required to be disclosed under IFRS 8.      
  
The Group has operations in the UK and overseas. In accordance with IFRS 8, entity wide disclosures based on the geography of operations is also 
presented. The geographical analysis of revenue is presented by revenue origin.        
The segmental information for the period ended 31 August 2013 is as follows:
 Agriculture  Food  Engineering  Other Group 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Total segment revenue 340,505 94,176 33,484 47 468,212
Inter segment revenue (64) (4) (61) — (129)
Revenue from external customers 340,441 94,172 33,423 47 468,083
Profit before taxation 8,751 559 4,203 — 13,513
The following are included in segmental profit before taxation:     
Finance income  253   2   50   208  
Finance costs (1,056) (353) (102)  193  
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (2,329) (1,752) (964) (120) 
Depreciation of investment property —  (4) —  (58) 
Profit on the disposal of property, plant and equipment  4   34   12   58  
Amortisation of intangible assets (108) (18) (126) — 
Head office net expense     (457)
Retirement benefit charge     (222)
Adjustments related to derivative financial instruments      236 
Other adjustments     (68)
Share of post-tax profit of associate      1,953 
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures      916 
Profit before taxation      15,871 44
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
notes to the financial statements continued
2 Segmental information (continued)
Assets
  Agriculture  Food  Engineering  Other Group 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Segment assets  58,701 20,504 12,032 103,719 194,956
The segmental information for the period ended 1 September 2012 is as follows: 
 Agriculture  Food  Engineering  Other Group 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Total segment revenue 293,838 80,477 29,797 47 404,159
Inter segment revenue (42) (5) (54) — (101)
Revenue from external customers 293,796 80,472 29,743 47 404,058
Profit before taxation  8,108   442   4,702   —   13,252 
     
The following are included in segmental profit before taxation:     
Finance income  202   2   84   385  
Finance costs (865) (284) (114) (85) 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (1,917) (1,430) (643) (175) 
Depreciation of investment property  —  (4)  —  (16) 
Profit on the disposal of property, plant and equipment  12   2   8   —  
Amortisation of intangible assets (200) (20) (150) (122) 
     
Head office net expense     (1,034)
Retirement benefit charge     (477)
Adjustments related to derivative financial instruments     (236)
Adjustments related to intangible assets     (122)
Other adjustments      13 
Profit on disposal of property and investment      282 
Share of post-tax profit of associate      1,180 
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures      201 
Profit before taxation      13,059
 
Assets
  Agriculture  Food  Engineering  Other Group 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Segment assets  52,829 16,241 9,950 85,706 164,726
Entity wide disclosures
Revenues from external customers are derived from the sale of products by individual business segment. The breakdown of revenue by business segment 
is provided above.
Revenues from external customers: 
   2013 2012
    £’000 £’000
UK    421,699 363,667 
Europe   22,227 18,817
USA   24,157 21,574
     468,083 404,058  45
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2 Segmental information (continued)
Non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets:
  2013   2012
 UK Europe USA Total UK Europe USA Total 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Goodwill  4,886  313  16   5,215   4,886  313  —   5,199 
Other intangible assets  123  446  46   615   243  437  48   728 
Property, plant and equipment  44,967  5,501 2,600   53,068   32,083  3,219 1,856  37,158 
Investment property  675  —  —   675   1,005  —  —   1,005 
Investment in associate  7,024  —  —   7,024   5,103  —  —   5,103 
Interest in joint ventures  1,579  1,775  (55)  3,299   1,622  1,285 —  2,907 
Other investments  51  —  21   72   51  —  20   71 
Non-current receivables  1  —  —   1   2  —  —   2 
  59,306  8,035  2,628  69,969   44,995  5,254 1,924  52,173
Major customers
There are no revenues from transactions with individual customers which amount to ten percent or more of Group revenue.
3 Group operating profit
 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000
Group operating profit is stated after (crediting)/charging:
Amortisation of grants (50) (50)
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (108) (22)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 5,165 4,165
Depreciation of owned investment property 62 20
Amortisation of intangible assets  252 492
Profit on disposal of investment (14) —
Foreign exchange (gains)/losses (410) 94
Derivative financial instruments (gains)/losses (303) 309
Operating lease charges 687 637
Auditors’ remuneration:
Audit services (Company £14,500; 2012: £14,000) 73 71
The auditing of accounts of subsidiaries of the Company pursuant to legislation (including overseas) 129 136
Services relating to taxation 39 47
Other services 6 36
Included within Group operating profit is the following in respect of investment property leased to,  
 and occupied by, external parties:
Rental income (54) (54)
Operating expenses 101 58
 47 4 46
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
notes to the financial statements continued
4 Staff costs
 2013 2012
Group £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries 27,915 25,817 
Social security costs 3,023 2,776
Other pension costs 1,693 1,834
Share based payments 244 49
 32,875 30,476
Included within other pension costs is £222,000 (2012: £477,000) in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme.
The average monthly number of employees, including Directors, during the period was made up as follows:
 2013 2012
Group Number Number
Sales, office and management 516 529
Manufacture and distribution 398 354
 914 883
Key management are considered to be the Directors of the Group.
Full details of the Directors’ emoluments, pension benefits and share options are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 30.
5 Finance income and finance costs 
   2013 2012
   £’000 £’000
Finance income
Bank interest   492 643
Other interest    21 30
Total finance income    513 673
Finance costs
Interest payable on bank overdrafts   (285) (258)
Interest payable on bank loans and other borrowings   (749) (820)
Interest payable on finance leases   (129) (119)
Other interest   (155) (151)
Total finance costs   (1,318) (1,348) 47
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6 Taxation
(a) Analysis of the charge in the period
   2013 2012
   £’000 £’000
Current tax:
UK corporation tax 
 Current period    669 827
 Prior period    25 (160)
Foreign tax   
 Current period    1,826 1,931
 Prior period   8 —
Group current tax    2,528 2,598
Deferred tax: 
Origination and reversal of timing differences 
 Current period   626 275 
 Prior period   (24) 81
Group deferred tax (note 16)   602 356
Tax on profit from ordinary activities    3,130 2,954
(b) Factors affecting tax charge for the period
The tax assessed for the period is lower (2012: lower) than the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23.58% (2012: 25.16%). The differences are explained  
below:
   2013 2012
   £’000 £’000
Profit before taxation    15,871 13,059
Tax at 23.58% (2012: 25.16%)   3,742 3,286
Effects of:
 Tax effect of share of profit in associate and joint ventures   (677) (347)
 Tax effect of expenses that are not allowable in determining taxable profit   153 65
 Effects of different tax rates of foreign subsidiaries    353 269
 Effects of changes in tax rates   (457) (262)
 Under/(over) provision in prior years    9 (79)
 Other    7 22
Total tax charge for the period    3,130 2,954
(c) Factors affecting future tax charges
The Finance Act 2013, which was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013, includes legislation reducing the main rate of corporation tax to 21% from  
1 April 2014 with a further reduction to 20% from 1 April 2015. As the Finance Act 2013 was substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, UK deferred 
tax balances at 31 August 2013 have been calculated using a tax rate of 20%. 48
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
notes to the financial statements continued
7 Dividends
  2013 2012
    Earnings  Earnings
   Earnings per share Earnings per share
   £’000 pence £’000 pence
Continuing operations
Earnings per share  – basic    11,427 128.7 8,712 98.2
 
Amortisation and non-recurring items:
Amortisation of intangible assets    252 2.8 492 5.5
Taxation relief on amortisation   (64) (0.7) (120) (1.3)
Derivative financial instrument (gain)/loss in respect of property,
  plant and equipment   (236) (2.7) 236 2.7
Taxation/(relief) on derivative (gain)/loss   54 0.6 (54) (0.6)
Profit on disposal of property   — — (175) (2.0)
Taxation on profit on disposal of property   — — 44 0.5
Profit on disposal of investment   — — (107) (1.2)
Taxation relief on disposal of investment    — — (23) (0.3)
Earnings per share – adjusted   11,433 128.7 9,005 101.5
Discontinued operations
Earnings per share – basic and adjusted   — — (202) (2.3)
   11,433 128.7 8,803 99.2
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary 
shares. The potentially dilutive ordinary shares, where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the 
period, are disclosed in note 26.
   2013 2012
Equity   £’000 £’000
Second interim paid for the period ended 1 September 2012 of 7.25p per 25.0p share (2011: 6.5p)  644 576
Final dividend for the period ended 1 September 2012 of 14.5p per 25.0p share (2011: 13.0p)   1,287 1,153
First interim paid for the period ended 31 August 2013 of 7.75p per 25.0p share (2012: 7.25p)   688 643
   2,619 2,372
Since the period end a second interim dividend of £688,993, being 7.75p per share, has been paid. The financial statements do not reflect this dividend  
payable.
The proposed dividend to be considered by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting is £1,466,888, being 16.5p per share, making a total for the period  
of 32.0p (2012: 29.0p). The financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
8 Earnings per ordinary share
Earnings per share are calculated by reference to a weighted average of 8,880,841 shares (2012: 8,869,438) in issue during the period.
Non-recurring items and amortisation that are charged or credited to profit do not relate to the profitability of the Group on an ongoing basis. Therefore an 
adjusted earnings per share is presented as follows: 49
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  2013   2012
  Weighted   Weighted
  average Earnings  average Earnings
 Earnings number per share Earnings number per share
 £’000 of shares pence £’000 of shares pence
Continuing operations
Earnings per share 11,427 8,880,841 128.7 8,712 8,869,438 98.2
 
Effect of dilutive securities:
 Share option scheme — 51,848 (0.8) — 42,734 (0.5)
 Share save scheme — 55,607 (0.8) — 23,524 (0.2)
 Long term incentive plan — 48,938 (0.7) — — —
Diluted earnings per share 11,427 9,037,234 126.4 8,712 8,935,696 97.5
Discontinued operations
Earnings per share — 8,880,841 — (202) 8,869,438 (2.3)
Effect of dilutive securities:
 Share option scheme — 51,848 — — 42,734 —
 Share save scheme — 55,607 — — 23,524 —
 Long term incentive plan — 48,938 — — — —
Diluted earnings per share — 9,037,234 — (202) 8,935,696 (2.3)
 11,427 9,037,234 126.4 8,510 8,935,696 95.2
8 Earnings per ordinary share (continued) 50
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
notes to the financial statements continued
  Customer   Patents and 
 Goodwill relationships Brands Know-how trademarks Software Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost 
At 4 September 2011  4,883 2,974 620 240 135 479 9,331
Exchange differences — — (25) — 2 (83) (106)
Subsidiaries acquired 641 184 — — — — 825
Additions  — — — — 10 44 54
At 1 September 2012  5,524 3,158 595 240 147 440 10,104
Exchange differences — — 17 — 3 32 52
Subsidiaries acquired 16 — — — — — 16
Additions  — — — — 3 105 108
At 31 August 2013  5,540 3,158 612 240 153 577 10,280
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 4 September 2011 325 2,743 240 177 90 169 3,744
Exchange differences — — (5) — 1 (55) (59)
Charge for the period — 314 36 63 8 71 492
At 1 September 2012 325 3,057 271 240 99 185 4,177
Exchange differences — — 4 — 2 15 21
Charge for the period — 101 35 — 6 110 252
At 31 August 2013 325 3,158 310 240 107 310 4,450
Net book amount
At 3 September 2011 4,558 231 380 63 45 310 5,587
At 1 September 2012 5,199 101 324 — 48 255 5,927
At 31 August 2013 5,215 — 302 — 46 267 5,830
During the period goodwill of £16,000 arose on acquisitions (note 27).
During the prior period goodwill totalling £641,000 arose on the acquisition of the entire issued share capital of Clive Walton Engineering Limited and  
J L Marsden & Petsmart Limited t/as Laycocks. Goodwill reflected the value of the employees, which under IFRS should not be recorded as a separately 
identifiable intangible asset on the balance sheet, and anticipated synergy benefits arising from the acquisitions. Synergy benefits included the rationalisation  
of the procurement and administration functions.
 For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to cash generating units that are expected to benefit from 
the synergies of the acquisition. 
9 Goodwill and other intangible assets 51
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
   31 August 1 September
   2013 2012
   £’000 £’000
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited   195 195
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited - Johnstone Wallace Oils profit centre   781 781
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited - Borders profit centre   264 264
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited - Wooler profit centre   369 369
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited - Safe at Work profit centre   568 568 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited - Laycocks profit centre   125 125
Carrs Agriculture Limited - Scotmin profit centre   2,068 2,068
Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH   313 313
Carrs Engineering Limited - Clive Walton Engineering profit centre   516 516
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc. - Silver Springs profit centre   16 —
   5,215 5,199 
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. Goodwill is tested for impairment 
by estimating future cash flows from the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated and discounting these cash flows to their present 
value. Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal 
management purposes. Goodwill is monitored at operating segment level. The key assumptions in this calculation are in respect of discount rates used and 
the change in cash flows. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks specific to the cash generating units.
Cash flows are estimated using the most recent budget information for the year to August 2014, which has been approved by the Board and extrapolates 
cash flows based on an estimated growth rate of 1-3% excluding inflation. The pre-tax discount rate used to discount the forecast cash flows for all cash 
generating units is 9.5% (2012: 8.5%).  
The Directors consider the assumptions adopted in calculating the cash flows to be consistent with historical performance and to be reasonable given 
current market conditions.
Significant headroom exists in each of the cash generating units and, based on the sensitivity analysis performed, reasonable possible changes in the 
assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of the cash generating units to equal or to exceed their recoverable amount.
Amortisation and impairment charges are recognised within administrative expenses.
 There is no goodwill or intangible assets in the Company (2012: none).
9 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
The carrying value of goodwill has been allocated to the following cash generating units:  52
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
10 Property, plant and equipment
     Assets in the
   Land and Plant and course of
   buildings equipment construction Total
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 4 September 2011   20,398 49,586 1,445 71,429
Exchange differences   (155) 21 (2) (136)
Subsidiaries acquired   — 1,063  — 1,063
Additions   42 6,848 2,968 9,858
Disposals    (257) (1,011) — (1,268)
Reclassifications    411 943 (1,354) —
Transfer from assets for resale   — 25 — 25
Amounts written off   — (237) (1) (238)
At 1 September 2012   20,439 57,238 3,056 80,733
Exchange differences   17 136 152 305
Subsidiaries acquired   310 255 — 565
Additions   8,724 10,305 1,333 20,362
Disposals    (690) (944) — (1,634)
Reclassifications    3,338 690 (4,028) —
Amounts written off   — — (7) (7)
At 31 August 2013   32,138 67,680 506 100,324
Accumulated depreciation
At 4 September 2011   5,769 34,141 — 39,910
Exchange differences    (31) 40 — 9
Subsidiaries acquired   — 531 — 531
Charge for the period    797 3,368 — 4,165
Disposals    (64) (739) — (803)
Amounts written off   — (237) — (237)
At 1 September 2012   6,471 37,104 — 43,575
Exchange differences    (63) 100 — 37
Charge for the period    743 4,422 — 5,165
Disposals    (743) (778) — (1,521)
At 31 August 2013   6,408 40,848 — 47,256
Net book amount
At 3 September 2011   14,629 15,445 1,445 31,519
At 1 September 2012   13,968 20,134 3,056 37,158
At 31 August 2013   25,730 26,832 506 53,068
Freehold land amounting to £2,920,413 (2012: £2,880,595) has not been depreciated.
The net book amount of plant and equipment includes £12,775,393 (2012: £3,383,618) in respect of assets held under finance leases. This consists of cost  
of £15,854,048 (2012: £6,492,913) less accumulated depreciation of £3,078,655 (2012: £3,109,295).
The Group’s bankers hold legal charges over certain properties.
notes to the financial statements continued 53
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
10 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Depreciation is recognised within the Consolidated Income Statement as shown below:
   2013 2012
   £’000 £’000
Cost of sales   4,622 3,137
Distribution costs   88 84
Administrative expenses   455 944
   5,165 4,165
The Company has no property, plant and equipment (2012: none).
11 Investment property
    Total
Group    £’000
Cost
At 4 September 2011    984
Additions    310
Disposals    (62)
At 1 September 2012    1,232
Disposals    (310)
At 31 August 2013    922
Accumulated depreciation
At 4 September 2011    220
Charge for the period    20
Disposals    (13)
At 1 September 2012    227
Charge for the period    62
Disposals    (42)
At 31 August 2013    247
Net book amount
At 3 September 2011    764
At 1 September 2012    1,005
At 31 August 2013    675
Included within investment property are properties occupied by life tenants. The net book amount of these properties at 31 August 2013 is £154,000  
(2012: £159,000).
The fair value of investment properties at 31 August 2013 is £1,065,000 (2012: £1,365,000). Investment properties were valued by independent  
professionally qualified valuers in 2011. The Directors have reviewed the valuations and are satisfied there are no significant changes to the assumptions  
and the valuations. The Directors have therefore not sought updated professional valuations at 31 August 2013. 
There is no investment property in the Company (2012: none). 54
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
notes to the financial statements continued 
    Joint Other
   Associate ventures investments Total
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 4 September 2011   4,246 2,519 276 7,041
Exchange difference   — (123) — (123)
Additions   — — 4 4
Disposals   — — (200) (200)
Redemption of preference shares   — (100) — (100)
Reclassification   — 410 — 410
Share of post-tax profit   1,180 201 — 1,381
Share of losses recognised directly in equity   (323) — — (323)
At 1 September 2012   5,103 2,907 80 8,090
Exchange difference   — 85 — 85
Additions   — — 1 1
Redemption of preference shares   — (150) — (150)
Reclassification   — (410) — (410)
Share of post-tax profit   1,953 916 — 2,869
Share of losses recognised directly in equity   (32) (49) — (81)
At 31 August 2013   7,024 3,299 81 10,404
Accumulated provision for impairment    
At 4 September 2011   — — 209 209
Disposals     (200) (200)
At 1 September 2012 and 31 August 2013   —  — 9 9
Net book amount
At 3 September 2011    4,246 2,519 67 6,832
At 1 September 2012    5,103 2,907 71 8,081
At 31 August 2013    7,024 3,299 72 10,395
During the prior period the initial losses of £410,000 incurred by our three US joint ventures were reclassified to amounts owed by other related parties within  
trade and other receivables. The cumulative losses on these investments were recognised against the loan balances due from these three joint ventures as  
the loans were considered to form part of the permanent equity interest. During the period these investments generated profits and the prior period losses were  
reclassified back to investments.
Other investments comprise shares in several private limited companies. These investments have been classified as unquoted investments for which fair  
value cannot be reliably measured and are held at cost less accumulated impairment. 
12 Investments 55
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12 Investments (continued)
  Proportion
  of shares held   
  Ordinary Country of Country of 
Name  % incorporation operation Activity
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Operations) Limited 49 England  UK Manufacture of animal feed
Associates are accounted for using the equity method.
At the period end the associate had capital commitments of £226,000 (2012: £143,000). No contingent liabilities exist within the associate.
The aggregate amounts relating to the associate, of which the Group recognises 49%, are:
   2013 2012
   £’000 £’000
Total assets    31,724 29,840
Total liabilities   (19,890) (21,925) 
Revenues    138,406 103,163
Profit after tax   3,986 2,408
 
Included within the investment in associate is a loan for £1,225,000 (2012: £1,225,000) which is considered to form part of the net investment in associate.
  Shares in  Joint Other
  subsidiaries Associate ventures investments Total
Company  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 4 September 2011   18,031 1,470 320 200 20,021 
Exchange difference  — — (48) — (48)
Share based payment expense 
 in respect of employees of 
 subsidiary undertakings  28 — — — 28
Disposals  — — — (200) (200)
At 1 September 2012   18,059 1,470 272 — 19,801 
Share based payment expense 
 in respect of employees of 
 subsidiary undertakings  89 — — — 89
Disposals  (120) — — — (120)
At 31 August 2013   18,028 1,470 272 — 19,770
Accumulated provision for impairment
At 4 September 2011  5,086 — — 200 5,286
Impairment in the period  415 — — — 415
Disposals  — — — (200) (200)
At 1 September 2012  5,501 — — — 5,501
Disposals  (120) — — — (120)
At 31 August 2013  5,381 — — — 5,381
Net book amount
At 3 September 2011  12,945 1,470 320 — 14,735
At 1 September 2012  12,558 1,470 272 — 14,300
At 31 August 2013  12,647 1,470 272 — 14,389
Other investments comprised shares in several private limited companies. These investments had been classified as unquoted investments for  
which fair value cannot be reliably measured and were held at cost less accumulated impairment. These investments were disposed in the prior period.
13 Investment in associate
The associated undertaking at 31 August 2013 is:
Group and Company 56
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
14 Interest in joint ventures
The joint ventures at 31 August 2013 are:
Group
 Proportion of shares held   
 Ordinary Preference Country of Country of 
Name % % incorporation operation Activity
Crystalyx Products GmbH 50 — Germany  Germany Manufacture of animal 
     feed blocks
Bibby Agriculture Limited 26 26 England UK Sale of agricultural products
Afgritech Limited 50 — England  UK Holding company
Afgritech LLC 50 — USA USA Producers of ingredients 
     of animal feed
Gold-Bar Feed Supplements LLC — — USA USA Manufacture of animal 
     feed blocks
ACC Feed Supplement LLC — — USA USA Manufacture of animal
     feed blocks
Silloth Storage Company Limited 50 — England UK Storage of cane derived 
     livestock feed supplement
Crystalyx Products GmbH has a 31 December accounting period end.
Silloth Storage Company Limited has a 30 June accounting period end.
Interests in the joint ventures listed above are held directly by the holding Company with the following exceptions: Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited 
holds 50% of the ordinary share capital and 50% of the preference share capital in Bibby Agriculture Limited. Carrs Agriculture Limited holds 50% of the 
ordinary share capital in Silloth Storage Company Limited. Animal Feed Supplement, Inc. holds the interest in Gold-Bar Feed Supplements LLC and ACC 
Feed Supplement LLC. Afgritech Limited has 100% control of Afgritech LLC. The preference shares in Bibby Agriculture Limited are redeemable with three 
months notice, carry no dividend entitlement except at the Directors’ discretion, and no voting rights.
Gold-Bar Supplements LLC and ACC Feed Supplement LLC have no issued share capital.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
At the period end Afgritech LLC had capital commitments of £838,000 (2012: £nil). No contingent liabilities exist within the joint ventures.
The aggregate amounts included in the financial statements relating to the Group’s share of joint ventures are:
notes to the financial statements continued
   2013 2012
   £’000 £’000
Non-current assets   3,479 2,914
Current assets   5,690 3,941
Current liabilities   (6,061) (4,700)
Non-current liabilities   (446) (445)
Income   27,671 17,411
Expenses   (26,441) (17,074)
Net finance income   14 10
 
Goodwill of £17,000 arose on the investment in Silloth Storage Company Limited. This is included in the carrying amount of the Group’s interest in joint 
ventures and is not shown as a separate asset.
 
Included within interest in joint ventures is an amount of £620,000 (2012: £770,000) which relates to the Group’s interest in the preference share capital  
of Bibby Agriculture Limited. 57
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Investments in the subsidiaries listed above are held directly by the Company with the following exception: Carrs Engineering Limited holds 100% of the 
ordinary share capital in Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH.
Dormant subsidiaries are not shown above because disclosure would be excessively lengthy. A full list of subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the 
Company’s next annual return.
16 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
 Assets  Liabilities Net
 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax 
 depreciation  — — (2,964) (2,981) (2,964) (2,981)
Employee benefits  654 1,231  — — 654 1,231
Other 1,390 1,249 (801) (752) 589 497
Tax assets/(liabilities)  2,044 2,480 (3,765) (3,733) (1,721) (1,253)
Movement in deferred tax during the period
  At    At
  2 September Exchange Recognised Recognised 31 August
  2012 differences in income in equity 2013
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets:
Employee benefits   1,231 — (690) 113 654
Other   1,249 24 117 — 1,390
  2,480 24 (573) 113 2,044
Liabilities:
Accelerated tax depreciation  (2,981) (1) 18 — (2,964)
Other  (752) (2) (47) — (801)
  (3,733) (3) (29) — (3,765)
Net liabilities  (1,253) 21 (602) 113 (1,721)
 
Other deferred tax assets and liabilities includes deferred tax on short term timing differences, rolled over capital gains, capital losses, business combinations 
and overseas deferred tax.
  Proportion
  of shares held   
  Ordinary Country of Country of 
Name  % incorporation operation Activity
Carrs Agriculture Limited   100  England  UK Manufacture of  
     animal feed blocks
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited   51  England UK Agricultural retailers  
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc.   100  USA USA Manufacture of 
     animal feed blocks  
Carr’s Flour Mills Limited   100   England UK Flour milling  
Carrs Engineering Limited   100  England UK Engineering  
Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH  100 Germany Germany Engineering
B.R.B. Trust Limited   100  England UK Financial services  
Carrs Properties Limited   100  England UK Property holding
15 Investment in subsidiary undertakings 58
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
16 Deferred tax assets and liabilities (continued)
Movement in deferred tax during the prior period
 Assets
   2013 2012
Company   £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax depreciation   1 1
Employee benefits     654 1,231
Other   — 16
Tax assets    655 1,248
 
Movement in deferred tax assets during the period
   At   At
   2 September Recognised Recognised 31 August
   2012 in income in equity 2013
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax depreciation   1 — — 1
Employee benefits    1,231 (690) 113 654
Other   16 (16) — —
   1,248 (706) 113 655
Movement in deferred tax assets during the prior period
   At   At
   4 September Recognised Recognised 1 September
   2011 in income in equity 2012
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax depreciation   2 (1) — 1
Employee benefits    1,490 (877) 618 1,231
Other   — 16  — 16
   1,492 (862) 618 1,248
Tax of £122,000 (2012: £176,000) in respect of tax losses has not been recognised as a deferred tax asset in the Group balance sheet.
Tax of £43,000 (2012: £54,000) in respect of tax losses has not been recognised as a deferred tax asset in the Company balance sheet.
 
notes to the financial statements continued
 At  In respect of   At
 4 September Exchange acquisitions Recognised Recognised 1 September
 2011 differences and disposals in income in equity 2012
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets:
Employee benefits  1,490 — — (877) 618 1,231
Other  1,029 16 — 204 — 1,249
 2,519 16 — (673) 618 2,480
Liabilities:
Accelerated tax depreciation (3,195) (2) (12) 228 — (2,981)
Other (812) — (29) 89 — (752)
 (4,007) (2) (41) 317 — (3,733)
Net liabilities (1,488) 14 (41) (356) 618 (1,253)
  59
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17 Inventories 
   2013 2012
Group   £’000 £’000
Raw materials and consumables   13,016 7,726 
Work in progress   1,080 1,497
Finished goods and goods for resale    19,349 17,905
   33,445 27,128
Inventories are stated after a provision for impairment of £228,000 (2012: £164,000).
The Company has no inventories (2012: none).
18 Trade and other receivables
 Group Company
  2013 2012 2013 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current:
Trade receivables 61,236 56,069  — —
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables (3,593) (4,273) — —
Trade receivables - net 57,643 51,796 — —
Amounts recoverable on contracts  1,222 984 — —
Amounts owed by Group undertakings (note 33)  — — 24,785 16,731
Amounts owed by other related parties (note 33) 3,786 2,607 2,879 1,929
Other receivables  1,976 2,251 249 451
Prepayments and accrued income  1,807 2,013 278 155
  66,434 59,651 28,191 19,266
Non-current:
Amounts owed by Group undertakings (note 33) — — — 775
Other receivables 1 2 — —
  1 2 — 775
The movement in the provision for impaired trade receivables consists of increases for additional provisions offset by receivables written off and unused 
provision released back to the consolidated income statement. Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written off when there is no 
expectation of recovering additional cash.
During the period a charge of £277,000 (2012: £441,000) has been recognised within administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement in 
respect of the provision for impairment of trade receivables.
No impairment of other receivables has been recognised in the current or preceding period.
Interest bearing, non-trading amounts owed by Group undertakings carry interest at Bank of England base rate + 2.50%. Such amounts are unsecured  
and repayable on demand. 60
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
18 Trade and other receivables (continued)
 Group Company
  2013 2012 2013 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The carrying value of trade receivables are denominated 
in the following currencies:
Sterling 51,988 46,404  — —
US Dollar 368 879 — —
Euro  5,287 4,513 — —
   57,643 51,796 — —
19 Current tax assets
 Group Company
  2013 2012 2013 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Corporation tax recoverable  178 — 486 517
Group taxation relief  — — 505 952
  178 — 991 1,469
notes to the financial statements continued
 2013 2012
    Past due but   Past due but
  Gross Impairment not impaired Gross Impairment not impaired
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The ageing of trade 
 receivables is as  
 follows:       
 
Not past due 42,375 (386) N/A 36,362 (351) N/A
Past due 0 - 30 days 7,476 (188) 7,288 8,269 (219) 8,050
Past due 31 - 60 days 2,346 (100) 2,246 3,566 (282) 3,284
Past due 61 - 90 days 2,979 (393) 2,586 2,432 (423) 2,009
Past due 91 - 120 days 1,929 (262) 1,667 1,413 (397) 1,016
Past 121 days 4,131 (2,264) 1,867 4,027 (2,601) 1,426
   61,236 (3,593) 15,654 56,069 (4,273) 15,785
The Company has no trade receivables (2012: none).
   
The credit quality of customers is assessed at subsidiary and Group level, taking into account their financial positions, past experiences and other relevant 
factors. Individual customer credit limits are imposed based on these factors.     
  
It is Group policy that overdue accounts are reviewed monthly at divisional management meetings to mitigate exposure to credit risk and are provided for 
where appropriate.     
  
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the period end is the carrying value, net of provision for impairment, of each receivable. The Group and  
Company do not hold any significant collateral as security (2012: none). 61
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
20 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 
 Group Company
  2013 2012 2013 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents per the balance sheet  22,884 23,294 19,822 22,736
Bank overdrafts (note 22) (209) (418) — —
Cash and cash equivalents per the statement of cash flows  22,675 22,876 19,822 22,736
21 Trade and other payables
 Group Company
  2013 2012 2013 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current:
Trade payables  23,077 25,008 — —
Payments on account  9,465 8,903 — —
Amounts owed to Group undertakings (note 33) — — 26 46
Amounts owed to other related parties (note 33) 15,194 13,901 — —
Other taxes and social security payable  763 855 257 258
Other payables  5,356 2,666 252 179
Accruals and deferred income  4,427 4,775 1,090 1,264
   58,282 56,108 1,625 1,747
Non-current:
Other payables  3,776 3,184 — —
Accruals and deferred income  1,180 880 — —
   4,956 4,064 — —
Amounts owed to Group undertakings and other related parties are interest free, unsecured and repayable on demand.
Included within non-current accruals and deferred income is the following in respect of government grants:
 Group Company
  2013 2012 2013 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  880 930 — —
Received in the period 350 — — —
Amortisation in the period (50) (50) — —
At the end of the period  1,180 880 — — 62
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
22 Borrowings 
 Group Company
  2013 2012 2013 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The net borrowings are:
Borrowings as above  44,993 25,749 17,112 17,899
Cash and cash equivalents (22,884) (23,294) (19,822) (22,736)
Net borrowings/(cash)  22,109 2,455 (2,710) (4,837)
Bank loans and other borrowings includes an amount of £11,366,000 (2012: £11,559,000) which is secured on trade receivables. The Company, together 
with certain subsidiaries, act as guarantors on the bank loans. In addition, The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC and Clydesdale Bank PLC have legal charges 
over certain properties. Finance lease obligations are secured on the assets to which they relate.
Interest bearing loans from Group undertakings carry interest at 1.68%, Bank of England base rate + 1.00% or Bank of England base rate + 2.50%.  
Such amounts are unsecured and repayable on demand.
Other loans are non-interest bearing and have no fixed date for repayment. The bank loans are repayable by instalments and the overdraft is repayable on 
demand.
Bank loans includes a drawn down revolving credit facility of £15.0 million (2012: £5.8 million) which is subject to renewal in November 2014. At the period 
end £nil million is undrawn (2012: £4.2 million).
 Group Company
  2013 2012 2013 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current:
Bank overdrafts  209 418 — —
Bank loans and other borrowings 13,262 12,864 789 805
Loans from Group undertakings (note 33) — — 501 9,624
Finance leases 2,074 894 — —
   15,545 14,176 1,290 10,429
Non-current:
Bank loans  18,912 9,220 15,822 7,470
Other loans (note 33)  1,225 1,225 — —
Finance leases  9,311 1,128 — —
   29,448 11,573 15,822 7,470
Borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year  15,545 14,176 1,290 10,429
In the second year  19,781 1,961 15,822 805
In the third to fifth years inclusive  6,672 9,612 — 6,665
Over five years 2,995 — — —
  44,993 25,749 17,112 17,899
Group and Company borrowings are shown in the balance sheet net of arrangement fees of £55,000 (2012: £63,000) of which £44,000 (2012: £28,000)  
is deducted from current liabilities and £11,000 (2012: £35,000) is deducted from non-current liabilities.
notes to the financial statements continued 63
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23 Derivatives and other financial instruments  
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing its risk and they are summarised in 
the Financial Review on page 14. These policies have remained unchanged throughout the period.
Financial Instruments by currency
 
 2013 2012
   US  Swiss   US    Swiss
  Sterling Dollar Euro Franc  Total Sterling  Dollar Euro Franc Total
Group  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets        
Other investments 51 21 — — 72 51 20 — — 71
Non-current receivables 1 — — — 1 2 — — — 2
Current trade and other receivables 56,935 3,828 5,671 — 66,434 50,368 3,806 5,477 — 59,651
Current derivatives — — 2 — 2 — — — — —
Cash and cash equivalents 16,152 162 6,570 — 22,884 21,264 922 1,103 5 23,294
   73,139 4,011 12,243 — 89,393 71,685 4,748 6,580 5 83,018
Liabilities         
Current borrowings 15,336 209 — — 15,545 13,758 418 — — 14,176
Current derivatives — 8 — — 8 — 3 70 236 309
Current trade and other payables 46,356 1,063 10,863 — 58,282 44,213 1,645 10,250 — 56,108
Non-current borrowings 29,448 — — — 29,448 11,573 — — — 11,573
Other non-current liabilities 1,179 3,777 — — 4,956 880 3,184 — — 4,064
   92,319 5,057 10,863 — 108,239 70,424 5,250 10,320 236 86,230
 2013 2012
  US    US    
 Sterling Dollar Euro  Total Sterling  Dollar Euro Total
Company £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets        
Non-current receivables — — — — 775 — — 775
Current trade and other receivables 25,778 2,413 — 28,191 17,361 1,905 — 19,266
Cash and cash equivalents 16,232 159 3,431 19,822 21,657 786 293 22,736
  42,010 2,572 3,431 48,013 39,793 2,691 293 42,777
Liabilities         
Current borrowings 969 321 — 1,290 984 5,482 3,963 10,429
Current derivatives — — — — — — 70 70
Current trade and other payables 1,625 — — 1,625 1,747 — — 1,747
Non-current borrowings 15,822 — — 15,822 7,470 — — 7,470
  18,416 321 — 18,737 10,201 5,482 4,033 19,716
The Group and Company have right of offset on certain bank accounts.
Sensitivity analysis         
The impact of a weakening or strengthening in Sterling against other currencies at the balance sheet date is shown in the table below. The Directors 
consider that a 10% weakening or strengthening in Sterling against the Euro and a 5% weakening or strengthening in Sterling against other currencies 
represents reasonable possible changes.
   2013   2012
  5%/10%  5%/10%  5%/10%  5%/10%
  weakening strengthening weakening  strengthening
  £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000
Impact on profit after taxation 878 (732) 600 (505)
Impact on total equity 1,198 (1,267) 410 (348)
This sensitivity analysis is not an indication of actual results, which may materially differ. For the purposes of this sensitivity analysis all other variables have 
been held constant.       64
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
23 Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
Interest rate risk   
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained earnings and bank borrowings. The Group borrows in the desired currencies at fixed and 
floating rates of interest.
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average
  effective  effective 
  interest rate 2013 interest rate 2012
Group  % £’000 % £’000
Bank overdrafts 5.75 209 5.75 418
Bank loans and other borrowings 2.76 32,174 2.75 22,084
Other loans — 1,225 — 1,225
Finance lease liabilities 8.40 11,385 4.30 2,022
   44,993  25,749
Fixed rate  11,385  2,022
Floating rate  32,383  22,502
Non-interest bearing  1,225  1,225
   44,993  25,749
The Group’s floating rate financial liabilities bear interest determined as follows:     
Bank overdrafts US prime rate + 2.5% margin 
Bank loans and other borrowings Libor + 2.5%; Libor + 2.25%; Libor + 2.0%; Bank of England base rate + 1.9% margin
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average
  effective  effective 
  interest rate 2013 interest rate 2012
Company % £’000 % £’000
Bank loans 3.02 16,611 3.18 8,275
Loans from Group undertakings 1.76 501 1.59 9,624
    17,112  17,899
Fixed rate  —  3,963
Floating rate  17,112  13,936
    17,112  17,899
The Company’s floating rate financial liabilities bear interest determined as follows:     
     
Bank loans  Libor + 2.5%
notes to the financial statements continued 65
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23 Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
Sensitivity analysis      
The impact of a decrease or increase in interest rates during the period is shown in the table below. The Directors consider that a 1% movement in 
interest rates represents reasonable possible changes.
 2013 2012
  1% decrease 1% increase 1% decrease 1% increase
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Impact on profit after taxation 117 (117) 92 (88)
Impact on total equity 117 (117) 92 (88)
This sensitivity analysis is not an indication of actual results, which may materially differ. For the purposes of this sensitivity analysis all other variables have 
been held constant.     
Liquidity risk    
The Group’s policy throughout the period has been to maintain a mix of short and medium term borrowings. Short-term flexibility is achieved by overdraft 
facilities. In addition it is the Group’s policy to maintain committed undrawn facilities in order to provide flexibility in the management of the Group’s liquidity. 
    
The tables below analyse the Group and Company’s financial liabilities which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the 
remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash 
flows which have been calculated using spot rates at the relevant balance sheet date. 
 2013  2012
   Within One to Two to Over  Within One to Two to
   one two five five  one two five
  Total year years years years Total year years years
Group  £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
Bank overdrafts 209 209 — — — 418 418 — —
Bank loans and other borrowings 32,982 13,883 17,716 1,383 — 22,788 13,199 1,599 7,990
Other loans 1,225 — — 1,225 — 1,225 — — 1,225
Finance lease liabilities 12,747 2,463 2,100 5,089 3,095 2,174 980 699 495
Derivatives 8 8 — — — 309 309 — —
Trade and other payables 58,282 58,282 — — — 56,108 56,108 — —
Other non-current liabilities 4,956 — — 4,956 — 4,064 — — 4,064
   110,409 74,845 19,816 12,653 3,095 87,086 71,014 2,298 13,774
 2013  2012
  Within One to Two to  Within One to Two to
  one two five  one two five
 Total year years years Total year years years
Company £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
Bank loans 17,270 1,317 15,953 — 8,856 1,079 1,052 6,725
Loans from Group undertakings 501 501 — — 9,624 9,624 — —
Derivatives — — — — 70 70 — —
Trade and other payables 1,625 1,625 — — 1,747 1,747 — —
 19,396 3,443 15,953 — 20,297 12,520 1,052 6,725
   66
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
notes to the financial statements continued
  Repayment profile
  2013 2012 2013 2012
Group  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Amount payable: 
Within one year 2,463 980 2,074 894
In the second year 2,100 699 1,789 656
In the third to fifth years inclusive 5,089 495 4,527 472
Over five years 3,095 — 2,995 —
  12,747 2,174 11,385 2,022
Less: future finance charges (1,362) (152)
 
Present value of lease obligations 11,385 2,022
The Company has no finance lease obligations (2012: none). 
Borrowing facilities        
The Group has various undrawn committed facilities. The undrawn facilities available at 31 August 2013, in respect of which all conditions precedent  
had been met, were as follows:
23 Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
Future minimum lease payments of finance leases
   2013 2012
   Floating rate Floating rate
   £’000 £’000
Expiring in one year or less   17,853 19,144 
The Company’s overdraft is within a Group facility and it is therefore not possible to determine the Company’s undrawn committed facilities at the balance 
sheet date.
Capital risk management        
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for 
shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an efficient capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.    
    
 In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, 
issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.      
 The Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total equity. Net debt is calculated as total 
borrowings (including current and non-current borrowings) as shown in the consolidated balance sheet less cash and cash equivalents. Total equity is  
as shown in the consolidated balance sheet.     
At 31 August 2013 the Group had net debt of £22.1m (2012: £2.5m).    
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
The fair value of Group and Company financial assets and liabilities are not materially different to book value, with the following exception: 
 2013 2012
  Book Fair Book Fair
  value value value value
Group  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current borrowings 29,448 30,617 11,573 11,686 67
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23 Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
Derivative financial instruments        
Hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries
The Company has US dollar denominated borrowings totalling $500,000 (2012: $8,700,000) which act as a partial hedge against the investment in its 
US subsidiary. The fair value of the US dollar borrowings at 31 August 2013 was £321,000 (2012: £5,482,000) and a foreign exchange pre-tax loss of 
£142,000 (2012: £78,000) was recognised in equity during the year on translation of this loan to sterling.
The Company has Euro denominated borrowings totalling Xnil (2012: X5,000,000) which act as a partial hedge against the investment in its European 
subsidiary. The fair value of the Euro borrowings at 31 August 2013 was £nil (2012: £3,963,000) and a foreign exchange pre-tax loss of £223,000  
(2012: pre-tax gain of £199,000) was recognised in equity during the year on translation of this loan to sterling.
Currency derivatives          
The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to manage exchange risk exposure. At the balance sheet date, the fair value of outstanding forward 
foreign currency contracts are as below:
 2013 2012
   Contractual  Contractual
  Fair or notional Fair or notional
  value amount value amount
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At beginning of period (239) 7,693 — —
Gains/(losses) during the period 233 (5,573) (239) 7,693
At end of period (6) 2,120 (239) 7,693
Included within: 
 Current assets 2 399 — —
 Current liabilities (8) 1,721 (239) 7,693
  (6) 2,120 (239) 7,693
The Company has no forward foreign currency contracts (2012: none).
The Group and Company use currency swaps to manage exchange risk exposure. At the balance sheet date, the fair value of outstanding currency swaps  
are as below:
 2013 2012
   Contractual  Contractual
  Fair or notional Fair or notional
  value amount value amount
Group and Company  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At beginning of period (70) 4,042 — —
Gains/(losses) during the period 70 (4,042) (70) 4,042
At end of period — — (70) 4,042
Included within: 
 Current liabilities — — (70) 4,042
  — — (70) 4,042
Fair value has been determined by reference to the value of equivalent forward foreign currency contracts and currency swaps at the balance  
sheet date. 
All forward foreign currency contracts and currency swaps have a maturity of less than one year after the balance sheet date. Gains and losses  
on currency related derivatives are included within administrative expenses. 68
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
notes to the financial statements continued
24 Retirement benefit obligation
The Group participates in two defined benefit pension schemes, Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 and Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension 
Scheme.
Carr’s Milling Industries
The Company sponsors the Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 and offers a defined contribution and a defined benefit section. The assets of 
the scheme are held separately from those of the Group and are invested with independent investment managers.
The pension expense for the defined contribution section of the scheme for the period was £510,000 (2012: £403,000). Contributions totalling £33,000 
(2012: £22,000) were payable to the fund at the period end and are included in other payables.
The defined benefit section of the scheme is funded to cover future pension liabilities (including expected future earnings and pension increases). It is 
subject to an independent valuation on a triennial basis by a qualified actuary who determines the rate of the employer’s contribution. The most recent 
valuation of the scheme was at 31 December 2011 and adopted the Projected Unit Method. It was assumed that the investment returns would be 5.7% 
per annum and that the salary increases would average 4.05% per annum. It was also assumed that present and future pensions would increase up to  
a maximum of 5% per annum.
The actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2011 shows a funding shortfall (technical provisions minus value of assets) of £9,945,000.
The pension contribution made by the Group over the period to the defined benefit section was £2,867,000 (2012: £3,772,000).
In addition, the Group offers a Group Personal Pension plan to certain employees of Carr’s Flour Mills Limited. The pension expense for this scheme for 
the period was £228,000 (2012: £274,000).
 The following disclosures relate to the defined benefit section of the Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993. The last full actuarial  
valuation of this scheme was carried out by a qualified independent actuary as at 31 December 2011 and updated on an approximate basis to  
31 August 2013.
Major assumptions:     
   2013 2012
   % %
Inflation (RPI)   3.30 2.55
Inflation (CPI)   2.50 1.85
Salary increases   3.30 3.05
Rate of discount   4.60 4.40
Pension in payment increases: 
 RPI or 5.0% per annum if less   3.20 2.55
 RPI or 5.0% per annum if less, minimum 3.0% per annum   3.60 3.00
Allowance for revaluation of deferred pensions of CPI or 5.0% per annum if less   2.50 1.85
  69
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24 Retirement benefit obligation (continued)
The mortality tables used in the valuation as at 31 August 2013 are 100% of S1PMA (males) and S1PFA (females) with allowance for mortality 
improvements using CMI_2009 with a 1.5%pa underpin. The mortality assumptions adopted imply the following life expectancies at age 65 as at   
31 August 2013:
   At At
   31 August 1 September 
   2013 2012
Males currently age 45   25.0 years 24.8 years
Females currently age 45   27.2 years 27.0 years
Males currently age 65   22.7 years 22.5 years
Females currently age 65   24.7 years 24.6 years
 
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of defined benefit schemes:
   2013 2012
   £’000 £’000
Current service cost    507 510
Interest on pension scheme liabilities    2,410 2,591
Expected return on pension scheme assets   (2,695) (2,624)
   222 477
 
The expense is recognised within the Income Statement as shown below:
   2013 2012
   £’000 £’000
Cost of sales    100 224 
Administrative expenses    122 253
   222 477
Actuarial losses of £566,000 (2012: £2,686,000) have been reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The cumulative amounts of actuarial losses recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income since adoption of IAS19 is £8,826,000  
(2012: £8,260,000).
Amounts included in the Balance Sheet:  
   2013 2012
   £’000 £’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations   (59,509) (55,472)
Fair value of scheme assets    56,237 50,121
Deficit in scheme   (3,272) (5,351) 70
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
24 Retirement benefit obligation (continued)
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations:
 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  55,472 48,918
Current service cost  507 510
Interest cost  2,410 2,591
Changes in assumptions underlying the defined benefit obligation  3,251 5,490
Benefits paid (2,131) (2,037)
At the end of the period  59,509 55,472
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets:
 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  50,121 42,958
Expected return on scheme assets  2,695 2,624
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets  2,685 2,804
Contributions by employer  2,867 3,772
Benefits paid (2,131) (2,037)
At the end of the period  56,237 50,121
 
Analysis of the scheme assets, expected rate of return and actual return:
 Expected return Fair value of assets
  2013 2012 2013 2012
  % % £’000 £’000
Equity instruments  6.80 6.20 29,024 25,384
Debt instruments  4.20 4.10 22,292 20,659
Property  6.80 6.20 4,409 3,895
Other assets  3.50 4.10 512 183 
  5.74 5.33 56,237 50,121 
Actual return on scheme assets    5,380 5,428 
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption, the Company considered the current level of expected returns on risk free investments 
(primarily government bonds), and the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio was invested and the 
expectations for future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the actual asset allocation to develop 
the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio. This resulted in the selection of the 5.74% at 31 August 2013.
notes to the financial statements continued 71
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24 Retirement benefit obligation (continued)
History of scheme:         
  2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Present value of the defined benefit  
 obligation  (59,509) (55,472) (48,918) (48,551) (46,763)
Fair value of scheme assets   56,237 50,121 42,958 37,806 32,090 
Deficit  (3,272) (5,351) (5,960) (10,745) (14,673)
Difference between expected and 
 actual returns on scheme assets:
 Amount £’000   2,685 2,804 (570) 2,300 (2,090)
 Percentage of scheme assets  4.8% 5.6% 1.3% 6.1% 6.5%
Gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
 Amount £’000  (3,251) (5,490) 1,296 (6) 3,041
 Percentage of scheme liabilities  5.5% 9.9% 2.6% 0% 6.5%
 
 The Group expects to contribute approximately £2,885,000 to the defined benefit scheme in the next financial period, of which the Company expects to 
contribute approximately £2,283,000.
 
Carrs Billington Agriculture
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited, one of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings, is a participating employer of the Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension 
Scheme, another funded defined benefit scheme. On 30 November 2007, following consultation with the active members, the Company and Trustees 
agreed to close the scheme to future service accrual. The most recent actuarial assessment of the scheme was at 31 December 2012.
 The pension contribution made by Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited over the period to the Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme was £nil 
(2012: £nil).
 It is not possible to identify the underlying share of the pension scheme assets and liabilities that relate to the Group. At inception in June 2000 
approximately 50% of the assets and liabilities of the pension scheme related to the Group and under IFRS approximately 50% of the assets and  
liabilities are included in the Group’s financial statements through the investment in associate, which is the sponsoring employer of the scheme.
Details and disclosures in respect of the scheme are provided in the financial statements of Carrs Billington Agriculture (Operations) Limited which are 
publicly available.
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited offers a Group Personal Pension Plan to its employees and the pension expense for this plan in the period was 
£383,000 (2012: £358,000). 
 During the period contributions were also payable to a defined contribution pension scheme for certain employees of Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) 
Limited. The pension expense for this scheme for the period was £16,000 (2012: £15,000).
25 Share capital
  2013 2013 2012 2012
Group and Company Shares £’000 Shares £’000
Authorised:
 Ordinary shares of 25p each 14,000,000 3,500 14,000,000 3,500
Allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 25p each:   
 At start of period 8,876,182 2,219 8,863,056 2,216
 Allotment of shares 14,048 4 13,126 3
At end of period 8,890,230 2,223 8,876,182 2,219
The consideration received on the allotment of shares during the period was £68,000 (2012: £62,000).
For details of share based payment schemes see note 26. 72
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
notes to the financial statements continued
26 Share-based payments 
Group
The Group operates three active share based payment schemes at 31 August 2013.
In 2013 the Group entered into a long term incentive plan. Shares will be awarded to eligible individuals subject to an earnings per share (EPS) target 
measured against average annual increases over a three year period. For the awards granted in 2013 an average annual growth of EPS must exceed 7.0% 
for 25% of the awards to vest, 50% vest at 8.1% and 100% vest at 10.2%, with a straight line calculation between 25%, 50% and 100% of the award.
All employees, subject to eligibility criteria, may participate in the share save scheme. Under this scheme employees are offered savings contracts for both  
3 year and 5 year vesting period plans. The exercise period is 6 months from the vesting date.
The approved share options were granted to certain senior employees and Directors. Options are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of 
grant, subject to the movement of the Group’s adjusted earnings per share over the three years to 31 August 2008 exceeding that of the RPI by an average 
of 2% per annum.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of fair values are as follows:
     Approved   
  Long Term Share Save Share Save Executive Share
  Incentive Plan Scheme 2011 Scheme 2011 Option
  2013 (3-Year Plan) (5-Year Plan) Scheme 2006
Grant date  1/5/13 10/5/11 10/5/11 24/2/06
Share price at grant date (weighted average)  £13.15 £7.20 £7.20 £4.78 
Exercise price (weighted average)  £0.00 £5.72 £5.72 £4.78 
Number of employees  5 76 75 17
Shares under option  48,938  48,564 78,328 74,000
Vesting period (years)  3 3 5 3
Model used for valuation  Market value* Black Scholes Black Scholes Binomial
Expected volatility  — 25.00% 24.00% 22.44%
Option life (years)  10 3.5 5.5 10
Expected life (years)  6.5 3.25 5.25 6.5 
Risk-free rate  — 1.620% 2.450% 4.224%
Expected dividends expressed  
 as a dividend yield  2.4% 3.90% 3.90% 3.36%
Expectations of vesting  100% 95% 95% 100%
Expectations of meeting performance criteria  100%  N/A N/A 100% 
Fair value per option  £12.37 £1.49 £1.56 £0.99
* discounted for dividends forgone over the three year vesting period
The expected volatility has been calculated using historical daily data over a term commensurate with the expected life of each option. The expected life is 
the midpoint of the exercise period. The risk-free rate of return is the implied yield of zero-coupon UK Government bonds with a remaining term equal to 
the expected term of the award being valued.
Long Term Incentive Plan 2013
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2013 2012
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period — — — —
Granted during the period — 49 — —
Outstanding at the end of the period  — 49 — —
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 9 years with a weighted average remaining expected life of 5.5 years. 73
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
26 Share-based payments (continued)
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 3 Year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2013 2012
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 5.72 51 5.72 56
Forfeited during the period 5.72 (2) 5.72 (5)
Outstanding at the end of the period  5.72 49 5.72 51
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 1.25 years (2012: 2.25 years) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of 1 year (2012: 2 years).
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 5 Year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2013 2012
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (‘000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 5.72 86 5.72 90
Forfeited during the period 5.72 (8) 5.72 (4)
Outstanding at the end of the period  5.72 78 5.72 86
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 3.25 years (2012: 4.25 years) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of 3 years (2012: 4 years).
Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006 
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2013 2012
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period  4.78 87 4.78 99
Exercised during the period 4.78 (13) 4.78 (12)
Outstanding at the end of the period  4.78 74 4.78 87
Exercisable at the end of the period  4.78 74 4.78 87
 
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 2.5 years (2012: 3.5 years) with a weighted average remaining expected 
life of nil years (2012: nil years). 74
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
notes to the financial statements continued
26 Share-based payments (continued)
The total expense recognised for the period arising from share based payments are as follows:
 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000
Long Term Incentive Plan 2013 202 —
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 3 Year Plan 22 24
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 5 Year Plan 20 25
 244 49
Company
The movement in the number of outstanding options under the share schemes for the company is not shown as it is immaterial and disclosure would be  
excessively lengthy.
The total expense recognised for the period arising from share based payments are as follows:
 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000
Long Term Incentive Plan 2013   137 —
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 3 Year Plan   5 5
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 5 Year Plan   1 1
     143 6
Share based payments awarded to employees of subsidiary undertakings and recognised as an investment in subsidiary undertakings in the Company are  
as follows:
 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000
Long Term Incentive Plan 2013   65 —
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 3 Year Plan   41 24
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 5 Year Plan   49 30
Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006    67 80
Total carrying amount of investments   222 134 75
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27 Acquisitions
Silver Springs
In June 2013 Animal Feed Supplement, Inc. acquired the trade and assets of Western Feed Supplements LLC for cash consideration of £810,000.
The principal activity of the acquired business is that of a low moisture feed block manufacturer.
This purchase has been accounted for as an acquisition. Given the size of the acquisition no separate disclosure has been presented on the face of the 
income statement as the impact would not be material.
The acquisition was in line with the Group’s agriculture strategy of overseas expansion for feed blocks. The location of the plant gives access to new areas 
of the USA with large numbers of potential customers, and will complement the Group’s two existing USA low moisture feed block plants in South Dakota 
and Oklahoma.
Goodwill arising from the acquisition amounts to £16,000. Goodwill reflects the value of the employees, which under IFRS should not be recorded as a 
separately identifiable intangible asset on the balance sheet. 
The following amounts have been recognised within the consolidated income statement in respect of the acquisition:
  £’000
Revenue     295
Loss before taxation     (36)
There were no other recognised gains and losses other than the profit shown above.
The assets and liabilities acquired in the period are set out below:
  Fair value
  £’000
Property, plant and equipment      565
Inventories    229
Net assets acquired    794
Goodwill    16 
Satisfied by cash     810
Pro forma full year information
IFRS3 (revised) requires disclosure of information as to the impact on the financial statements if the acquisition had occurred at the beginning of the 
accounting period.
The unaudited pro forma summary below presents the Group as if the acquisition had been acquired on 2 September 2012.
The pro forma amounts include the results of the acquisition and the interest expense on the increase in net debt as a result of the acquisition. The pro 
forma amounts do not include any possible synergies from the acquisition. The pro forma information is provided for comparative purposes only and does 
not necessarily reflect the actual results that would have occurred, nor is it necessarily indicative of future results.
  £’000
Revenue     469,607
Profit before taxation     15,804 76
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
notes to the financial statements continued
28 Cash generated from/(used in) operations 
 Group Company
  2013 2012 2013 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit for the period 12,741 10,105 10,449 508
Adjustments for:
Tax   3,130 2,954 316 (107)
Dividends received from subsidiaries  — — (11,445) (2,220)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 5,165 4,165 — —
Depreciation of investment property 62 20 — —
Intangible asset amortisation  252 492 — —
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (108) (153) — —
Profit on disposal of investment property — (45) — —
Profit on disposal of investment (14) (107) (14) (107)
Amounts written off property, plant and equipment 7 1 — —
Impairment of investment — — — 415
Loan forgiven in the period — — — 13
Amortisation of grants (50) (50) — —
Net fair value loss on share based payments  244 49 143 6
Net foreign exchange differences  (220) 138 (196) 183
Net fair value (gains)/losses on derivative financial instruments  
 in operating profit (303) 309 (70) 70
Finance costs:
 Interest income (513) (673) (1,008) (841)
 Interest expense and borrowing costs  1,354 1,403 633 583
Share of profit from associate and joint ventures  (2,869) (1,381) — —
IAS19 income statement credit in respect of employer 
 contributions (note 24) (2,867) (3,772) (2,867) (3,772)
IAS19 income statement charge (note 24) 222 477 222 477
Changes in working capital (excluding the effects of acquisitions):
Increase in inventories (6,088) (3,868) — —
Increase in receivables (5,699) (896) (259) (147)
Increase/(decrease) in payables 2,787 2,806 (187) (379)
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 7,233 11,974 (4,283) (5,318)
29 Analysis of net cash/(net debt)
  At  Other  At
  2 September  non-cash Exchange 31 August
  2012 Cash flow changes movements 2013
Group  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents   23,294 (410) — — 22,884
Bank overdrafts  (418) 99 — 110 (209)
  22,876 (311) — 110 22,675
Loans and other borrowings: 
 – current  (12,864) 1,094 (1,492) — (13,262)
 – non-current   (10,445) (11,149) 1,457 — (20,137)
 
Finance leases: 
 – current  (894) 1,118 (2,298) — (2,074)
 – non-current  (1,128) — (8,183) — (9,311)
Net debt   (2,455) (9,248) (10,516) 110 (22,109)
 Other non-cash changes relate to finance leases and transfers between categories of borrowings. It also includes the release of deferred borrowing costs to 
the consolidated income statement.  77
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  At  Other  At
  2 September  non-cash Exchange 31 August
  2012 Cash flow changes movements 2013
Company  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents   22,736 (3,055) — 141 19,822
Loans and other borrowings: 
 – current  (10,429) (4,599) 14,103 (365) (1,290)
 – non-current  (7,470)  — (8,352)  — (15,822)
Net cash  4,837 (7,654) 5,751 (224) 2,710
 
Other non-cash changes relate to the release of deferred borrowing costs to the consolidated income statement and transfers between categories of  
borrowings.
30 Capital Commitments
 2013 2012
Group £’000 £’000
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment that has been contracted 
 for but has not been provided for in the accounts    1,662 8,985
The Company has no capital commitments (2012: none).
31 Other Financial Commitments 
Group
At 31 August 2013 the Group had commitments, other than land and buildings, under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
29 Analysis of net cash/(net debt) (continued)
 2013 2012
 £’000 £’000
Within one year  436 514
Within two and five years inclusive  575 1,007
After five years  — 30
 1,011 1,551
The Company has no commitments under non-cancellable operating leases (2012: none).
32 Financial guarantees
 The Company, together with certain subsidiary undertakings, has entered into a guarantee with Clydesdale Bank PLC in respect of the Group loans, 
overdraft, asset finance and guarantee facilities with that bank, which at 31 August 2013 amounted to £15,832,000 (2012: £8,776,000).  
Certain subsidiary undertakings utilise guarantee facilities with financial institutions which include their own bankers. These financial institutions in 
the normal course of business enter into certain specific guarantees with some of the subsidiaries’ customers. All these guarantees allow the financial 
institutions to have recourse to the subsidiaries if a guarantee is enforced. The total outstanding of such guarantees at 31 August 2013 was £3,652,000 
(2012: £3,977,000).
The Company has provided specific guarantees to certain customers of a subsidiary. These are in place to guarantee the completion of the contract in  
any event. At 31 August 2013 the contracts under guarantee that have still to be completed have a total contract value of £nil (2012: £377,000).
 The Company has entered into a guarantee with the Trustees of the Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme in respect of the punctual payment 
of obligations due to the pension scheme by the participating employers of the scheme. The Company’s total liability shall not exceed £1,500,000 
(2012: £1,500,000).
 The Group and Company does not expect any of the above guarantees to be called in. 78
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
notes to the financial statements continued
  Company
    2013 2012
    £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings:
Loans     24,662 17,484
Other receivables   123 22
    24,785 17,506
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings:
Loans     (501) (9,624)
Other payables    (26) (46)
    (527) (9,670)
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Management charges receivable   2,139 1,688
Dividends received    11,445 2,220
Interest receivable    655 342
Interest payable    (150) (115)
33 Related parties 
Group and Company
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, associate and joint ventures and with its Directors. The balances and transactions shown 
below were all undertaken on an arm’s length basis in the normal course of business.
Transactions with key management personnel
Key management personnel are considered to be the Directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
 Group Company
  2013 2012 2013 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts owed by key management personnel 
 (in a trading capacity):  
Trade receivables 74 95 — —
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Revenue  417 626 — —
Purchases (8) (5) — —
During the prior period the Group incurred recruitment related costs in respect of Neil Austin, who was appointed Finance Director on 1 May 2013.
Transactions with subsidiaries 79
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
33 Related parties (continued)
Transactions with associate
 Group Company
  2013 2012 2013 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts owed by associate:
Trade and other receivables  84 185 8 2
Amounts owed to associate:
Trade and other payables (15,191) (13,888) — —
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Revenue  1,079 563 — —
Rental income  19 19 — —
Management charges receivable 46 60 42 15
Management charges payable (97) (67) — —
Purchases (118,749) (89,762) — —
Transactions with joint ventures
 Group Company
  2013 2012 2013 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts owed by joint ventures:
Trade and other receivables 3,628 2,327 2,871 1,927
Amounts owed to joint ventures:
Trade and other payables (3) (13) — —
Included within Group trade and other receivables is £3,512,000 (2012: £2,224,000) in respect of loans owed by joint ventures. The loan balance for the 
prior period is stated after the recognition of the cumulative losses of £410,000 on the three US joint ventures (note 12).
Included within Company trade and other receivables is £2,833,000 (2012: £1,916,000) in respect of loans owed by joint ventures.
 Group Company
  2013 2012 2013 2012
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
 
Revenue 59 91 — —
Management charges receivable 100 100 — —
Purchases (374) — — —
Transactions with other related parties
Other loans of £1,225,000 (2012: £1,225,000) included within non-current borrowings is in respect of a loan from Edward Billington and Son Limited  
to Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited. This loan is interest free, unsecured, and has no set repayment date. Edward Billington and Son Limited  
has a 49% shareholding in Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited. 80
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
five yeaR statement
Continuing operations  2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Revenue and Results  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue   350,023 298,110 373,318 404,058 468,083
Group operating profit   7,295 7,445 9,156 12,071 13,807
Analysed as:
Operating profit before non-recurring items  7,295 7,445 9,907 12,307 13,571
Non-recurring items  — — (751) (236) 236
Group operating profit    7,295 7,445 9,156 12,071 13,807
Profit on the disposal of property and investment — — — 282 —
Finance income  211 404 410 673 513
Finance costs  (1,522) (1,224) (1,332) (1,348) (1,318)
Share of post-tax profit in associate 
 and joint ventures  1,051 799 1,776 1,381 2,869
Profit before taxation   7,035 7,424 10,010 13,059 15,871
Taxation  (1,829) (1,663) (1,973) (2,954) (3,130)
Profit for the period from continuing operations 5,206 5,761 8,037 10,105 12,741
Profit/(loss) for the period from discontinued operations — 1,074 16,598 (202) —
Profit for the period  5,206 6,835 24,635 9,903 12,741
Ratios (continuing operations)
Operating margin (excluding non-recurring items) 2.1% 2.5% 2.7% 3.0% 2.9%
Return on net assets (excluding non-recurring  
  items and amortisation)   21.4% 19.4% 17.9% 19.9% 20.4%
Earnings per share  – basic  50.4p 51.9p 77.0p 98.2p 128.7p 
     – adjusted  51.0p 53.5p 88.4p 101.5p 128.7p
Dividends per ordinary share  23.0p 24.0p 26.0p 29.0p 32.0p
Revenue and results for the year ended 2009 include the revenue and results from the fertiliser blending operations which were disposed of in the year 
ended 2011. 81
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Net assets employed  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill    1,654 4,336 4,558 5,199 5,215
Other intangible assets    764 1,362 1,029 728 615
Property, plant and equipment    31,764 32,588 31,519 37,158 53,068
Investment property   718 699 764 1,005 675
Investments    4,626 5,018 6,832 8,081 10,395
Financial assets
– Non-current receivables    53 5 2 2 1
Deferred tax assets    5,015 3,924 2,519 2,480 2,044
   44,594 47,932 47,223 54,653 72,013
Current assets
Inventories    23,860 27,015 22,793 27,128 33,445
Trade and other receivables    43,059 48,810 56,988 59,651 66,434
Current tax assets    119 303 9 — 178
Financial assets
– Derivative financial instruments  16 — — — 2
– Cash and cash equivalents   10,304 13,695 33,282 23,294 22,884
  77,358 89,823 113,072 110,073 122,943
Total assets    121,952 137,755 160,295 164,726 194,956
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
– Borrowings  (10,226) (11,478) (26,436) (14,176) (15,545)
– Derivative financial instruments  (43) (127) — (309) (8)
Trade and other payables  (35,928) (49,468) (53,469) (56,108) (58,282)
Current tax liabilities  (708) (1,129) (1,688) (1,552) (1,639)
  (46,905) (62,202) (81,593) (72,145) (75,474)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
– Borrowings  (19,403) (17,732) (2,274) (11,573) (29,448)
Retirement benefit obligation   (14,673) (10,745) (5,960) (5,351) (3,272)
Deferred tax liabilities  (4,840) (4,960) (4,007) (3,733) (3,765)
Other non-current liabilities  (2,834) (2,797) (3,617) (4,064) (4,956)
  (41,750) (36,234) (15,858) (24,721) (41,441)
Total liabilities  (88,655) (98,436) (97,451) (96,866) (116,915)
Net assets   33,297 39,319 62,844 67,860 78,041 82
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 
Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle, Cumbria 
CA3 9BA 
Tel: 01228 554600   
Fax: 01228 554601 
Website: www.carrs-milling.com
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc 
East Highway 212,  
PO Box 188, Belle Fourche,  
South Dakota 57717 USA 
Tel: 00 1 605 892 3421  
Fax: 00 1 605 892 3473
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc 
PO Box 105,  
101 Roanoke Avenue, Poteau, 
Oklahoma 74953 USA 
Tel: 00 1 918 647 8133  
Fax: 00 1 918 647 7318
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc 
PO Box 569,
1700 US 50 East,
Silver Springs, Nevada 89429 
Tel: 001 775 577 2002  
Fax: 001 775 577 4625
Caltech 
Solway Mills, Silloth, Wigton, 
Cumbria CA7 4AJ 
Tel: 016973 32592   
Fax: 016973 32339
Scotmin
13 Whitfield Drive,  
Heathfield Ind Est, Ayr  
KA8 9RX 
Tel: 01292 280 909  
Fax: 01292 280 919
Aminomax 
Old Croft 
Stanwix, Carlisle  
Tel: 01228 554 600  
Fax: 01228 554 601 
Gold-Bar Feed Supplements LLC*
783 Eagle Boulevard, Shelbyville,
TN 37160, USA
Tel: 00 1 877 618 6455
Fax: 00 1 877 618 6489 
Crystalyx Products GmbH* 
Am Stau 199-203, 26122, 
Oldenburg, Germany 
Tel: 00 49 441 2188 92142  
Fax: 00 49 441 2188 92177
ACC Feed Supplement LLC* 
5101 Harbor Drive,
Sioux City, Iowa 51111 
Tel: 001 712 255 6927  
Fax: 001 712 252 4845
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Operations)** 
Parkhill Road, Kingstown Ind Est, 
Carlisle CA03 0EX 
Tel: 01228 529 021  
Fax: 01228 554 397 
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Operations)** 
Lansil Way, 
Lancaster LA1 3QY
Tel: 01524 597 200  
Fax: 01524 597 229
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Operations)** 
High Mill, Langwathby, 
Penrith CA10 1NB
Tel: 01768 889 800  
Fax: 01768 889 887
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Operations)** 
Cold Meece, 
Stone ST15 0QW
Tel: 01785 760 535  
Fax: 01785 760 888
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Annan 
25 High Street, Annan, 
Dumfriesshire DG12 6AE 
Tel: 01461 202 772  
Fax: 01461 202 712 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Appleby
Crosscroft Industrial Estate, 
Appleby,
Cumbria CA16 6HX
Tel: 01768 352 999
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Askrigg
Uredale Mill, Askrigg, Leyburn, 
North Yorkshire DL8 7HZ
Tel: 01969 650 229
Fax: 01969 650 770
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Barnard Castle 
Montalbo Road, Barnard Castle, Co 
Durham DL12 8ED 
Tel: 01833 637 537  
Fax: 01833 638 010
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Bakewell
Unit 4, Station Road Industrial 
Estate, Bakewell, Derbyshire  
DE45 1GE
Tel: 01629 814 126
Fax: 01629 814 804
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Berwick upon Tweed 
29 Northumberland Road,
Berwick upon Tweed,
Northumberland TD15 2AS 
Tel: 01289 307 245  
Fax: 01289 305 727
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Brock 
Brockholes Way,  
Claughton Trading Estate, Lancaster 
Old Road, 
Claughton on Brock,  
Preston PR3 0PZ 
Tel: 01995 643 200  
Fax: 01995 643 220
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Carlisle 
Montgomery Way, Rosehill Estate, 
Carlisle CA1 2UY 
Tel: 01228 520 212  
Fax: 01228 817 800
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Cockermouth 
Unit 5, Lakeland Agricultural 
Centre, Cockermouth  
CA13 0QQ 
Tel: 01900 824 105  
Fax: 01900 826 860
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Gisburn 
Pendle Mill, Mill Lane, Gisburn, 
Clitheroe, Lancashire BB7 4ES 
Tel: 01200 445 491
Fax: 01200 445 305
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Hawes 
Burtersett Road, Hawes,  
North Yorkshire DL8 3NP 
Tel: 01969 667 334  
Fax: 01969 667 335 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Hexham 
Tyne Mills Industrial Estate, 
Hexham, Northumberland  
NE46 1XL 
Tel: 01434 605 371  
Fax: 01434 608 938 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Jedburgh 
Mounthooly, Crailing,
Jedburgh, TD8 6TJ 
Tel: 01835 850250   
Fax: 01835 850748
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Kendal 
Unit 1 Moss End, Crooklands, 
Milnthorpe, Cumbria 
Tel: 01539 566 035
Fax: 01539 566 042
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Leek 
Macclesfield Road, Leek, 
Staffordshire ST13 8NR 
Tel: 01538 383 277
Fax: 01538 385 731
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
t/a Laycocks, Malton 
Unit 1 The Pyramid Estate, 
Showfield Lane, Malton,  
North Yorkshire YO17 6BT 
Tel: 01653 600 328
Fax: 01653 690 338
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Milnathort 
Stirling Road, Milnathort,  
Kinross KY13 9UZ   
Tel: 01577 862 381  
Fax: 01577 863 057
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Morpeth 
20c Coopies Lane Industrial Estate, 
Morpeth, Northumberland NE61 
6JN 
Tel: 01670 503 930  
Fax: 01670 504 404
 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Penrith
Haweswater Road,
Penrith Industrial Estate, Penrith,
Cumbria CA11 9EH
Tel: 01768 862 160
Fax: 01768 899 345 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Perth 
17/18 Arran Place, Arran Road, 
Perth PH1 3RN 
Tel: 01738 643 022
Fax:  01738 442 122
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Selkirk 
The Old Pump House,  
Dunsdale Road, Selkirk,
Selkirkshire TD7 5EB 
Tel: 01750 720 734  
Fax: 01750 722 725
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
t/a Laycocks, Settle 
Unit 6 The Sidings Industrial Estate, 
Settle, North Yorkshire BD24 9RP 
Tel: 01729 825 812  
Fax: 01729 825 812
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
t/a Laycocks, Skipton 
Laycock House, Skipton Auction 
Market, Skipton,  
North Yorkshire BD23 1UD 
Tel: 01756 792 166
Fax: 01756 701 008
DiRectoR y of opeRations 83
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Spennymoor
Southend Works, Byers Green, 
Spennymoor, Co. Durham,
DL16 7NL
Tel: 01388 662 266
Fax: 01388 603 743
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Stirling
Stirling Agricultural Centre, 
Stirling FK9 4RN
Tel: 01786 474 826
Fax: 01786 472 933
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Wooler 
Bridge End, South Road,  
Wooler, Northumberland,  
NE71 6QE 
Tel: 01668 281 567  
Fax: 01668 283 453
Safe at Work 
Kingstown Broadway, Kingstown 
Industrial Estate, Carlisle CA3 0HA 
Tel: 01228 591091   
Fax: 01228 590026
Wallace Oils, Carlisle 
Kingstown Broadway, Kingstown 
Industrial Estate, Carlisle CA3 0HA 
Tel: 01228 534 342  
Fax: 01228 590 820
Johnstone Wallace Fuels, Castle 
Douglas
Abercromby Industrial Park,
Castle Douglas, Dumfriesshire
DG7 1BA
Johnstone Wallace Fuels, Dumfries
Dargavel Stores,
Lockerbie Road, Dumfries,
Dumfriesshire DG1 3PG
Tel: 01387 750 747
Fax: 01387 750 747
Johnstone Wallace Fuels, Stranraer 
Droughduil, Dunragit, 
Stranraer DG9 8QA 
Tel:  01581 400 356
Fax: 01581 400 356
Afgritech LLC*
200 Willow Street, Watertown,
New York 13601, USA
Tel: 00 1 315 785 3625
Fax: 00 1 315 785 3627
Bibby Agriculture* 
Priory House, Priory Street, 
Carmarthen SA31 1NE 
Tel: 01267 232 041  
Fax: 01267 232 374
Bibby Agriculture* 
1A Network House 
Badgers Way 
Oxon Business Park 
Shrewsbury, Shropshire 
SY3 5AB 
Tel: 01743 237 890  
Fax: 01743 351 552
 
Bendalls   
Brunthill Road, 
Kingstown Industrial Estate, 
Carlisle CA3 0EH 
Tel: 01228 526 246  
Fax: 01228 525 634 
R Hind    
Kingstown Broadway,  
Kingstown Industrial Estate, Carlisle 
CA3 0HA 
Tel: 01228 523 647  
Fax: 01228 512 712 
Carrs MSM   
Unit 1 Spitfire Way, 
Hunts Rise, 
South Marston Park, 
Swindon, Wiltshire SN3 4TX 
Tel: 01793 824 891 
Fax: 01793 824 894
Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH
Schießstattweg 16
88677 Markdorf
Germany
Tel: 0049 7544 95140
Fax: 0049 7544 951499
Carr’s Flour, Silloth 
Solway Mills, Silloth, Wigton, 
Cumbria CA7 4AJ 
Tel: 01697 333 700  
Fax: 01697 332 543 
Carr’s Flour, Maldon 
Station Road, Maldon,  
Essex CM9 4LQ 
Tel: 01621 852 696  
Fax: 01621 854 525
Carr’s Flour, Scotland 
East Bridge, Kirkcaldy,  
Fife KY1 2SR 
Tel: 01592 267 191  
Fax: 01592 641 805
John Stronach 
Solway Mills, Silloth, Wigton, 
Cumbria CA7 4AJ 
Tel: 01697 331 456  
Fax: 01697 332 808 
Silloth Storage Company*
Station Road, Silloth,
Wigton, Cumbria
CA7 4JQ
* joint venture company
** associate company 84
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London. www.corporateprm.co.uk Old Croft, Stanwix 
Carlisle CA3 9BA
www.carrs-milling.com
