 Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Integrated energy
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Centr ICa pl C
Registered office: Millstream,  
Maidenhead Road, Windsor,  
Berkshire SL4 5GD
Company registered in England  
and Wales No. 3033654
centrica.com Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Integrated energy I s what we do.
It means constantly exploring new ways to 
source, procure and generate an affordable 
supply of energy.
It means integrating innovation and 
technology into the home, giving our 
customers access to energy and services, 
whenever they need it.
It means working with governments, 
regulators and partners to make the right 
things happen at the right time.
Most important of all, it means empowering 
our customers to take control of their  
energy needs as we work towards a  
low carbon future.
Integrated energy fro M Centr ICa.
onl Ine
Use your smartphone or tablet  
to scan this QR code for instant 
access to the Centrica Annual 
Report 2012 online
what it means to us
Integrated energy
how we achieve it
Disclaimer
This Annual Report and Accounts does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for, or otherwise 
acquire or dispose of any Centrica shares or other securities.
This Annual Report and Accounts contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial 
condition, results, operations and businesses of Centrica plc. These statements and forecasts involve risk and 
uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future. There are 
a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or 
implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts. 
Past performance is no guide to future performance and persons needing advice should consult an independent 
financial adviser.
This report is printed on Revive 100 Silk  
which is made from 100% recycled post-
consumer fibre that is Totally Chlorine Free. 
This paper has been independently certified 
according to the rules of the Forest 
Stewardship Council (FSC
®
).
Designed and produced by 
Photography by David Hares, Mike 
Abrahams, Igor Emmerich, Charlie Fawell  
and David Partner. 
Printed by CPI Colour Limited  
ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral
®
. 1 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
OUR integ Rated  
BUSineSS MOdeL
See how we deliver at every  
stage of the energy chain  
on page 12
deLiveRing OUR 
viSiOn
Read about our strategic  
priorities on page 10
Introduction
You can find here a short summary of our business, 
providing an overview of the Annual Report together 
with the Group’s financial performance.
 2 Centrica at a Glance  
 4 Performance Highlights 
Financial Statements
Here you can understand the details behind our 
financial performance.
 78 Group Financial Statements 
 82 Notes to the Financial Statements 
 135 Independent Auditors’ Report – Company 
 136 Company Balance Sheet 
 137 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
 143 Gas and Liquids Reserves  
144 Five Year Record  
Directors’ Report – Business Review
We discuss here how we have delivered our vision and 
strategy in 2012 and take the opportunity to introduce 
the next step of our strategic direction.
 5 Chairman’s Statement
 9 Chief Executive’s Review 
   9 Marketplace
   10 Our vision and strategic priorities
   12 Our business model
   14 Review of the year
 18 Key Performance Indicators
 20 Our Businesses
 22 Operating Review
 36 Group Financial Review 
 39 Corporate Responsibility Review 
 44 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Directors’ Report – Appendix
This provides more detailed performance measures for 
the business units and corporate responsibility. The 
Directors’ biographies and statutory Directors’ Report 
disclosures are also included.
 1 4 6 P e r f or ma nc e M e asur e s 
 152  Biographies of the Board of Directors and  
Senior Executives  
 154 Other Statutory Information
 
Directors’ Report – Governance
Read here to find out about our standards of 
governance in relation to Board leadership and 
effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and 
relations with shareholders. 
 52 Corporate Governance Report 
 61 Remuneration Report 
 76 Independent Auditors’ Report – Group
Shareholder Information
If you need help with managing your shareholding or you 
want to know more about our financial calendar and 
share register, then this information can be found here.
 1 5 6 Fi na nc ia l C a l e nd a r
 1 5 7 Shar eholder Inf orma t ion
 1 6 1 Glossar y 
 1 63 I n de x 2 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Introduction
Cent RiCa at a g Lan Ce
STR ATEGIC PRIORITIES
PA G E 10 Bu SIn ESS m Od El PA G E 12
m ARk ET Pl ACE
PA G E 9
Our strategic priorities
We have refreshed our strategy to 
ensure we deliver our vision.
inn Ovate to drive 
growth and service 
excellence 
 i nte g R a te our natural 
gas business, linked to 
our core markets
inCReaSe our returns 
through efficiency 
and continued capital 
discipline
Our business model
A resilient, integrated business 
model is key to our success.
We SOURCe it 
by finding and developing new gas 
reserves across the world.
We gene Rate it
through our fleet of gas-fired power 
stations and wind farms.
We pROCeSS it
at our onshore gas terminals, making 
it safe for our customers to use.
We StOR e it
at our Rough storage field, the largest 
gas storage facility in the UK.
We t Rade it 
in the UK, North America and Europe 
to secure gas and power for our 
customers.
We SUppLy it
to our residential and commercial 
customers in the UK and North 
America.
We SeRviCe it
through our energy services and 
installation businesses.
We Save it
by offering a range of low carbon 
products and services to our 
customers.
The markets we operate in
The energy world is constantly 
evolving.
dOWnSt ReaM
British Gas is the leading residential 
energy and services provider in 
Britain and Direct Energy is one of 
North America’s largest energy and 
energy related services providers.
UpSt ReaM
Centrica Energy has upstream  
gas and oil operations in the UK, 
Norway, the Netherlands, North 
America and Trinidad and Tobago. 
The Company also owns gas-fired 
power stations and has interests  
in nuclear and renewable generation 
in the UK. Centrica Storage operates 
more than 70% of the UK’s total  
gas storage capacity. Securing  
our customers’ energy needs, 
sustainably and affordably, is at  
the core of what we do. 3 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
  Introduction
k Ey PERf ORm An CE In d ICATORS
PA G E 18
Our vision is to be the leading 
integrated energy company  
with customers at our core
CORPOR ATE R E S P O n S I B I l I T y PA G E 3 9
PRIn CIPAl RISk S
PA G E 4 4
Measuring our progress
Our key performance indicators 
monitor our progress and keep 
our focus on delivery. 
We monitor our performance by 
measuring and tracking key 
performance indicators (KPIs) that  
we believe are important to our 
longer-term success. Long-term 
sustainable performance of these 
KPIs is linked to the remuneration 
arrangements of our Executive 
Directors and senior executives.
finan CiaL kpis
•	 Adjusted	operating	profit
•	 Adjusted	basic	earnings	per	share
•	 Total	shareholder	return
•	 Dividends	per	share
nOn-finan CiaL kpis
•	 Lost	time	injury	frequency	rate
•	 Process	safety
•	 Customer	trust
•	 Employee	engagement
Responsibility
The impact our business  
activities have on society and  
the environment. 
Our corporate responsibility ambition 
is to be the most trusted energy 
company. We need to be trusted  
by our customers, governments, 
regulators and investors by effectively 
managing our social and environmental 
impacts. In achieving a broad 
foundation of stakeholder trust, we 
can ensure long-term sustainable 
business success.
Go to centrica.com to see our 
responsibility process in more detail.
Our principal risks
To achieve our priorities, we need 
to be aware of the principal risks 
that affect our business. 
The risks we face in a rapidly 
changing energy landscape continue 
to evolve over time. A number of 
measures helped to mitigate those 
factors in 2012 while 2013 presents 
our organisation with more 
challenges. Robust governance and 
a clear risk strategy prepare us for 
any uncertainties ahead.
pRinCipaL RiSkS
•	 	 Health,	safety,	security	and	
environment
•	 	 Brand	and	reputation
•	 Legislation		 and	regulation
•	 	 Strategic	growth
•	 	 Commodity	costs
•	 Change	management
•	 	 Information	security
•	 People 4 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Introduction
peRf ORMan Ce high Light S
Financial highlights 2012 2011
Revenue from continuing operations £23.9bn £22.8bn
Total	adjusted	operating	profit £2,743m £2,415m
Total	adjusted	taxation	charge £1,110m £891m
Total	adjusted	effective	tax	rate 44% 40%
Adjusted	earnings	 £1,406m £1,333m
Adjusted	basic	earnings	per	share	(EPS)	 27.1p 25.8p
Full-year dividend per share 16.4p 15.4p
Group capital and acquisition expenditure £2,727m £1,601m
Statutory results
Operating profit from continuing operations £2,625m £1,414m 
Profit from continuing operations before taxation £2,442m £1,268m
Earnings £1,273m £421m 
Basic earnings per ordinary share 24.6p 8.2p 
Earnings include £481m of exceptional charges relating to provisions for North American wind power purchase agreements, 
restructuring charges, an impairment relating to our decision not to proceed with nuclear new build and a restriction on the  
rate of tax relief on UK oil and gas decommissioning costs.
Adjusted earnings
£m
Group revenue
‡
£bn
Dividend per share
pence
911
1,111
1,297
1,333
1,406
2008 2012 2011 2010 2009
20.9
22.0
22.4
22.8
23.9
2008 2012 2011 2010 2009
12.2
12.8
14.3
15.4
16.4
2008 2012 2011 2010 2009
•  Adjusted earnings up 5% to £1,406 million; 27.1 pence adjusted basic EPS
• Statutory earnings £1,273 million
• Cooler weather saw average domestic gas consumption increase by 12%
• Centrica Energy and Direct Energy benefiting from enhanced scale
•  Adjusted Group tax charge of £1.1 billion
•  Share repurchase of £500 million announced and full year dividend up 6% 
•  £2.7 billion invested in 2012
‡ From continuing operations
Unless otherwise stated, all references to operating profit or loss, taxation and  
earnings	numbers	throughout	the	report	are	adjusted	figures,	as	reconciled	to	 
their statutory equivalents in the Group Financial Review on pages 36 to 38 5 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Chairman’s Statement
Chai RMan’ S State Ment
Upstream we invested around £2 billion  
in helping secure gas supplies for the UK. 
In parallel, we achieved first power from  
our Lincs offshore wind farm and worked 
with our partners in extending the life of 
our existing nuclear fleet. We took the 
decision not to participate in new nuclear 
construction with EDF due to higher 
anticipated costs and a lengthened 
construction schedule. This will enable us 
to return some of the capital we had raised 
for this purpose through a £500 million 
share repurchase programme.
In North America, a carefully executed 
strategy of operational efficiencies, organic 
growth and customer acquisition helped 
us to further expand our business – and 
we are well on the way to doubling 
profitability since 2009. With a change in 
the centre of gravity in our North American 
activities we moved the corporate 
headquarters from Toronto to Houston  
and our ambition to extend further our role 
in this market remains a strategic priority. 
The impact of shale gas in North America 
cannot be overstated and whilst its 
immediate effect has been to lower 
wholesale gas prices in the US market, 
there is no doubt it will influence global 
energy markets over time.
Our strategic vision is to be the leading 
integrated energy company, with 
customers at our core. The way in which 
we achieve this must reflect the changes  
in markets and sources of supply together 
with a constant assessment of costs  
and return for shareholders.
Our strategic vision is to 
be the leading integrated 
energy company, with 
customers at our core.
Review of the year 
It is now three years since we defined  
our	strategic	objectives	to	build	a	more	
sustainable, vertically integrated, cost 
effective and customer focused business 
with meaningful geographic diversity.  
We	were	clear	that	to	achieve	this	objective	
we would need to grow British Gas, 
acquire upstream assets on value creative 
terms and expand the scale of our North 
American activity.
I am pleased to confirm that in 2012 we 
demonstrated, through strong operational 
performance and acquisition, our 
considerable progress in achieving  
these strategic goals.
In the UK the year brought many 
challenges, with periods of colder weather 
compared to the very mild conditions of 
2011 contributing to higher energy bills,  
and with material changes in the regulatory 
environment. The management team  
dealt with all of the turbulence with great 
professionalism and commitment.
British Gas took the lead in simplifying tariffs 
and implemented changes consistent with 
Ofgem’s proposals for retail market reform. 
In parallel we continued to innovate with 
smart metering, to help consumers manage 
their energy usage, and to support 
customers with free insulation to reduce 
their consumption.
A relentless focus on cost management 
helped British Gas implement the lowest 
tariff	increase	of	all	the	major	energy	
suppliers, necessitated by higher 
wholesale energy costs, Government 
driven green energy costs and the 
imposition of additional infrastructure 
charges. Nevertheless, the very real 
concerns of hard pressed consumers, 
fuelled by external commentary, has 
impacted public trust in the industry  
and in British Gas as the nation’s largest 
energy supplier in particular.
Centrica is one of the UK’s most important 
companies, employing around 40,000 
people, keeping homes warm and well lit, 
securing future energy supplies, innovating 
and investing and paying substantial 
amounts of tax to the Treasury each year. 
We also have over 700,000 individual 
shareholders, all of whom benefit from the 
dividends the Company pays. Through our 
larger shareholders, many of them pension 
funds, our dividends also feed into the 
retirement savings of millions of people.  
It is important therefore that the Group 
continues to grow and invest. The 5% 
increase	in	adjusted	earnings	we	achieved	
in 2012 enabled us to invest more and to 
continue to grow our dividend in real 
terms. The importance of winning 
recognition for our contribution to the  
UK economy and building public trust 
continue to be priority items on our agenda.
Sir Roger Carr
Chairman
Centrica is one of the 
Uk’s most important 
companies 6 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Chairman’s Statement
Chai RMan’ S StateM ent CO ntin Ued
Our aim in 2013 and beyond will be to 
focus on three strategic priorities – 
innovate to drive growth and service 
excellence, integrate our natural gas 
business linked to our core markets and 
increase our returns through efficiency  
and continued capital discipline.
We will achieve these goals by 
differentiating our UK business through  
our systems and innovation to provide a 
competitive edge and investing upstream 
for value, while maintaining our structural 
hedge. In North America we will grow our 
customer base and service business and 
seek to enhance our midstream and 
upstream position by acquisition when 
strategic fit and returns are attractive.
We believe that under the leadership  
of Sam Laidlaw we have developed a 
strong platform on which we can build a 
rewarding future for both customers and 
shareholders. This has been achieved  
with the considerable commitment of  
the management team and the skills  
and enthusiastic support of colleagues  
on both sides of the Atlantic.
The period ahead will bring new 
challenges. In order to ensure the 
organisation of our management team is 
appropriate for the task ahead, with effect 
from 1 July 2013 the Group will migrate 
from a regional structure to an international 
functional structure. Chris Weston will 
assume responsibility for downstream 
operations and Mark Hanafin will assume 
responsibility for upstream operations 
across the Group.
After a successful career spanning 12 
years with Centrica, Phil Bentley will be 
stepping down from his role as Managing 
Director of British Gas, and Board member 
of Centrica, on 30 June 2013 and will leave 
the Company by 31 December 2013.
Phil Bentley has made a substantial 
contribution to the development of the 
business, initially as Finance Director and 
for the last six years as Managing Director 
of British Gas.
In his most recent role he has been 
instrumental in restructuring, reinvigorating 
and materially improving the performance 
of the business by raising customer 
service, lowering costs and increasing 
productivity. As Chairman, and on behalf 
of the Board, I thank him for all that he has 
achieved and wish him every success for 
the future.
I am confident that the bench strength  
we	enjoy,	the	mindset	we	have,	the	new	
management structure and business 
model we have created will continue to 
deliver strong cashflows, enabling us to 
invest in customer service, supply security 
and shareholder reward.
Corporate culture
The Centrica business model is both  
wide ranging and complex, but its  
culture is simple and straightforward – 
professionalism, openness and 
transparency in the way we do things, 
together with integrity and honesty in  
how we do them.
An organisation is dependent upon its 
management and structure for the 
execution of strategy and its culture for  
the way in which its results are achieved.
1. Sir Roger Carr
Chairman
2. Sam Laidlaw
Chief Executive
3. Phil Bentley
Managing Director, British Gas
4. Margherita Della Valle
Non-Executive Director
5. Mary Francis CBE
Senior Independent Director
6. Mark Hanafin
Managing Director, Centrica Energy
7. Lesley Knox
Non-Executive Director
8. Nick Luff
Group Finance Director
9. Andrew Mackenzie
Non-Executive Director
10. Ian Meakins
Non-Executive Director
11. Paul Rayner
Non-Executive Director
12. Chris Weston
Managing Director, North America
Senior Executives
13. Grant Dawson
General Counsel & Company 
Secretary
14. Jill Shedden
Group Director, Human Resources
Our Board members
2 3 4 5 6 7 1 7 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Chairman’s Statement
As a customer-facing business, respect  
for the individual, commitment to good 
service and adherence to the highest 
standards of behaviour in the customers’ 
homes or place of work are at the heart  
of what we do. Our core values seek to 
ensure our people are welcome and 
trusted wherever they go.
We employ around 40,000 people  
working in many countries and different 
environments from offshore rigs, to 
onshore plants, in administrative locations, 
on the road, in office premises and in 
customers’ homes. Caring for the welfare 
of our people wherever they are is our 
absolute priority.
In our health and safety policy no corners 
may be cut, nor costs trimmed, if it is at  
the expense of our people, customers, 
suppliers or contractors. This message  
is transmitted direct from the boardroom 
through management and reinforced in 
clear procedures, rigorous training and  
our incentive reward structure.
As a Board our focus is not simply on how 
much money the Company makes but 
how the Company makes money.
Corporate practice
In keeping with best practice, we oversee 
the Group worldwide through a unitary 
Board and six separate Committees – Audit, 
Nominations, Remuneration, Corporate 
Responsibility, Executive and Disclosure. 
Each Committee has agreed terms of 
reference and schedules a series of meetings 
throughout the year with disciplined agendas. 
Each Committee is professionally chaired 
and populated by an appropriate mix of 
Non-Executive and/or Executive Directors.
nationals – three are women and three men, 
three in full time executive employment and 
three who have a number of non-executive 
roles in both public and private companies.
Our most recent appointments to the Board 
over the last 24 months have brought both 
current operational experience and fresh 
perspective, and reinvigorated the debate 
and discussion.
Diversity
Centrica is strongly committed to the 
merits of diversity in all its forms at Board 
level and throughout the Group.
Twenty five percent of the Board are 
women. As a founding Chairman of the 
30% Club, I have long believed that the 
attainment of any role must be by merit, 
but that gender diversity can be an  
added value. Centrica is committed to 
maintaining its current level of women on 
the Board and would increase the 
percentage if the skills of the individual 
were appropriate and in keeping with the 
business need. This commitment is not  
a function of governance box-ticking but  
a belief that it is in the best interests of 
the business.
Our success in achieving a desirable mix at 
the Executive Committee level has been 
less successful with currently only one 
woman on a Committee of seven. We are 
working hard to address this issue through 
a variety of measures and I am confident 
we will increase the appointment of women 
in executive roles at the highest level.
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
In addition to normal business, the work  
of the Committees is supported by training 
sessions on topics of particular relevance 
when Non-Executives require a more 
detailed understanding. Training is given  
by both members of the Centrica 
management team and external advisors.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee is 
also informed by an external advisory body 
of specialists in energy and consumer 
affairs	who	are	able	to	give	objective	
comment on policy, performance and 
governance standards of the Company 
from an outsider’s perspective.
Each Committee reports to the Board  
after every meeting to ensure a 
comprehensive briefing is given to 
Board members on progress in all areas.
Board composition
The Board comprises myself as Non-
Executive Chairman and eleven other 
Directors of which six are Non-Executive.
We have sought to ensure we have a 
balanced Board where individual merit and 
relevance are the key entry requirements 
but collectively we have an appropriate mix 
of gender, nationalities and skills to ensure 
constructive debate and thoughtful 
decision making. In addition, we believe it 
is important to maintain a blend within the 
Non-Executive group where some are in 
full time executive employment and others 
are pursuing a portfolio non-executive 
career path. 
In addition to myself as Chairman, our 
current Non-Executives comprise one 
Australian, one Italian and four British 
GOv ERn An CE PAGE 52 
BIOGRAPh IES PAGE 154 8 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Chairman’s Statement
Chai RMan’ S StateM ent CO ntin Ued
Board composition planning
Over the last two years we have completed 
the first phase of refreshing the Board in 
keeping with the requirement for ensuring 
independence of mind and relevance of 
skills. Our last three appointments have 
included two with full time executive roles 
to bring relevant operational and financial 
experience to the Board and one with  
a broader non-executive skillset drawn 
from her experience in finance and as a 
non-executive and chairman of other 
boards. These appointments have assisted 
a generational change in Board 
membership and provided required 
replacement chairmanship skills in both 
remuneration and audit.
Following the announcement by BHP 
Billiton in February 2013 of the appointment 
of Andrew Mackenzie as CEO it is with 
regret that we have accepted Andrew’s 
resignation as a Non-Executive Director  
of Centrica with effect from 10 May 2013. 
Andrew will not, therefore, seek re-election 
as a Director at the Annual General 
Meeting to be held on 13 May 2013.
In light of the increased content of 
upstream activity and our wider presence 
in North America, we have commenced  
a search for an additional Non-Executive 
with strong upstream credentials in North 
America. It is hoped that this appointment 
will be made in the first half of 2013.
Sadly two of our Non-Executives, Mary 
Francis and Paul Rayner, will complete 
their nine-year term of office in 2013. Both 
have made a material contribution to the 
Board and both will ultimately be a loss  
to the business. To preserve corporate 
memory and avoid undue disruption  
at one time, I intend to stagger their 
departure such that Paul Rayner remains 
on the Board to 31 December 2013 and 
Mary Francis continues in her capacity  
as Senior Independent Director during 
2014. Whilst technically this exceeds their 
nine-year term, the Board has confirmed 
that they remain independent in character 
and	judgement	and	I	believe	taking	this	
approach to be in the best interests  
of the Company. 
With these changes in mind, the role of 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, which 
has been undertaken by Paul Rayner, will 
be handed over to Margherita Della Valle  
at the time of the half year results in 2013. 
Mary Francis will remain Chairman of the 
Corporate Responsibility Committee for 
the duration of 2013.
A search will be initiated for the 
replacement of both Paul Rayner and  
Mary Francis in the second half of 2013 
with a specification of skills and background 
to be determined in keeping with the 
demand of the business model at that time.
Board evaluation
Our policy over many years has been  
to conduct a thorough review of Board 
process, practice and culture on an annual 
basis with the input of an external facilitator 
at least once every three years. 
At the end of 2011 we appointed 
Independent Board Evaluations (IBE) to 
conduct an external review and carefully 
considered their findings that they 
recommended to ‘make a good board 
great’. The main observation was on the 
importance of allocating sufficient time for 
strategic discussion over the course of  
the year’s Board meetings rather than 
concentrating our efforts at an annual  
offsite strategic review session. IBE also 
recommended sharing more detail  
of the individual Committee meetings at  
Board updates and encouraging all 
Executive Directors to participate more fully 
in Board discussion on areas outside their 
day to day responsibility. 
In 2012 we adopted all of these 
recommendations to good effect, resulting 
in fuller participation by all Board members 
and a more regular review of the strategic 
development of the Group in a rapidly 
changing external environment. In 
December 2012, we conducted an internal 
Board evaluation comprising a written 
questionnaire followed by discussion in 
order to evaluate the success of the 
changes made and identify points to  
be addressed in the next twelve months. 
Based on the responses, all Directors 
concluded that there had been 
considerable improvement in both the 
quality and frequency of strategic 
discussion. All were now satisfied with  
the progress made and the contribution  
of all Board members. Looking forward, 
there were no issues on process or 
divisions on strategy.
 
Sir Roger Carr
Chairman 
27 February 2013
Our business principles
Our group-wide business 
principles create a framework  
to help us make decisions in  
line with a consistent set of 
operating behaviours based on 
trust, integrity and openness.
1. Demonstrating integrity in corporate conduct.
2. Ensuring openness and transparency.
3. Respecting human rights.
4. Enhancing customer experiences and business partnerships.
5. Valuing our people.
6. Focusing on health, safety and security.
7. Protecting the environment.
8. Investing in communities.
CORPOR ATE RESPOn SIBIl IT y PA G E 39 9 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Chief Executive’s Review
World gas markets are 
evolving and we have  
to evolve with them
Securing our customers’ energy needs, 
sustainably and affordably, is at the core 
of what we do. But the energy world is 
changing. By 2020:
•  almost three quarters of the UK’s gas  
will be imported;
•  more of the UK’s electricity will be 
generated from capital intensive, low 
carbon technologies;
•  every home in the UK will have a  
smart meter; and
•  in the US, shale will provide well  
over a third of natural gas production,  
having already transformed the US 
energy market.
ChiEf E xECUtiv E’S r EviEw: MAr KEt PLACE
Sam Laidlaw
Chief Executive
Our vision remains to be the leading 
integrated energy company, with 
customers at our core. we are refreshing 
our strategy to deliver that vision.
We will deploy our skills and capabilities 
so that we can benefit from the trends 
in our markets, growing and 
strengthening the business to fulfil  
our responsibilities to shareholders, 
customers and stakeholders. 
Refreshed strategic priorities to deliver 
our vision on page 10
Business model built for the evolving 
energy world on page 12
Review of the year on page 14
in MORe detaiL  10 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Chief Executive’s Review
OUR viSiOn and S t Rategi C pRiORitie S
We have been working hard for the past three years to 
realise our strategic priorities
Strategy delivered over the last three years
gROW BRitiSh ga S
Leading the transition to low  
carbon homes and business
•	 	 Stable	profits	and	strong	customer	retention	in	the	
residential business and reduced customer churn
•	 	 Increased	profitability	in	British	Gas	Services
•	 	 Clear	leadership	established	in	systems,	online	 
and smart
deLiveR va LUe f ROM OUR  
gROWing U pSt ReaM BUSineSS
Securing sustainable energy for  
our customers
•	 	 Significantly	larger	and	more	geographically	 
diverse business
•	 	 Increased	gas	and	oil	reserves	and	production	 
up by around 50%
•	 	 Strong	nuclear	performance	with	life	extensions	
creating additional value
BUiLd an integ Rated n ORth  
aMeRiCan BUS ineSS
With leading positions in  
deregulated markets
•	 Increased	scale	in	both	upstream	and	downstream
•	 	 Improved	return	on	capital	in	North	American	
downstream
•	 	 Upstream	resource	trebled	and	production	doubled
dRive SU peRiOR finan CiaL Ret URnS
t hrough operating performance  
and our unique investment choices
•	 Earnings	per	share	growth	of	25%
•	 Dividend	per	share	growth	of	28%
•	 Total	shareholder	return	of	36%	(FTSE	100:	21%) 11 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Chief Executive’s Review
Our refreshed strategic priorities 
We are now in a strong position to realise the next step of our 
strategic direction
REAd m ORE ABOu T Ou R n Ew 
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES On  
PAGES 16 TO 17
INCREASE our returns 
through efﬁciency and 
continued capital discipline
INTEGRATE 
our natural gas 
business, linked
to our core 
markets
     S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y  
 
 
 
 
     R I S K M A N A G E M E N T
Leading integrated energy company
with customers at our core
INNOVATE 
to drive growth
and service 
excellence 
G O O D G O V E R N A N C E
S T A K E H O L D E R M A N A G E M E N T 12 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Chief Executive’s Review
We SOURCe and geneR ate it
We invest in gas and oil reserves from the 
seas around the UK to secure vital 
long-term energy resources. We have 
natural gas assets in the UK, Norway, the 
Netherlands, North America and Trinidad 
and Tobago.
We generate power through our fleet of 
combined cycle gas turbine power 
stations, with eight stations in the UK and 
three plants in Texas. We also generate 
power through our equity interest in EDF 
Energy Nuclear Generation which operates 
eight UK nuclear power stations. 
Our five UK onshore and offshore wind 
farms generate renewable power. Lincs 
offshore wind farm generated its first 
power in the second half of 2012 and in 
2013 it will provide energy to more than 
200,000 homes. In North America, we 
secure the electrical output from numerous 
Texan wind farms.
OUr BUS inESS MODEL: 
an integ Rated eneR gy L and SCape
t he energy chain demonstrates how 
Centrica plays a major part in every 
aspect of energy from sourcing it to 
saving it. Each link in the energy chain  
is critical to our success and helps us  
to deliver our vision to be the leading 
integrated energy company, with 
customers at our core.
CEn TRICA En ERGy PAGE 26
d IRECT En ERGy PAGE 32
 66.8mmboe
gas and liquids produced
28tw h
power generated
31 million
customer accounts 13 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Chief Executive’s Review
consumption and costs. We offer an 
increasing number of innovative low 
carbon, energy efficient products and 
services, including installing solar panels, 
insulation and ground and air source 
heating. We are also installing solar 
canopies to charge the first fully electric 
cars in the UK. 
Our UK onshore gas terminals ensure high 
quality gas enters the UK’s transmission 
system. The Barrow terminals process gas 
from our Morecambe fields in the East Irish 
Sea while the terminal at Easington, in East 
Yorkshire, processes gas from the Rough 
storage facility and from early 2013, a 
newly constructed facility at Easington  
will process gas from the York field.
We save energy by helping customers  
to improve energy efficiency, offering  
free insulation and embracing new 
technologies – with smart meters playing  
a vital role as the enabling technology in 
the smart connected home. Our recently 
launched ‘Remote Heating Control’ 
product means customers can monitor 
and control their central heating systems 
from outside the home via the internet.
In the UK and North America, we trade  
gas and power to ensure British Gas and 
Direct Energy customers have a reliable 
and competitive energy supply. We have 
extended our presence to include liquefied 
natural gas (LNG) imports. Shipping LNG 
– where the gas is cooled to liquid form  
for ease of transport – now plays an 
important part in the way we secure the 
UK’s energy needs.
We SUppLy, SeRviCe and S ave it
We pROCeSS, St ORe and t Rade it
We supply energy to millions of homes and 
businesses in the UK and North America, 
and provide peace of mind with central 
heating, boiler and cooling maintenance 
and breakdown cover products.
By rolling out smart meter technology, we 
are ending the need for estimated bills, 
providing customers with accurate, 
real-time information on energy 
With the UK increasingly dependent on 
imported gas, our storage capability helps 
ensure security of gas supply to homes 
and businesses. Our Rough storage facility 
is the largest in the UK, making up more 
than 70% of national storage capacity and 
meeting around 10% of peak day demand. 
We store gas at Rough for a large number 
of customers, including utilities, gas traders 
and gas producers. 
BRITISh G AS PAGE 22
d IRECT En ERGy PAGE 32
CEn TRICA En ERGy PAGE 26
CEn TRICA STORAGE PAGE 30
d IRECT En ERGy PAGE 32 Business Review – Chief Executive’s Review
14 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Revie W Of the yea R
it is important that  
Centrica makes a fair and 
reasonable return so that 
we can continue to make 
our contribution to society 
and to invest. i n 2012, we 
incurred a tax charge of 
over £1 billion and invested 
over £2 billion to secure 
new sources of energy  
for the Uk, well in excess 
of our profits.
Strong performance in 2012 allows 
us to contribute our fair share
Centrica performed well in 2012 in a 
challenging environment, delivering year on 
year	adjusted	earnings	growth	of	5%.	This	
reflects a combination of organic growth 
and enhanced scale from recent acquisitions 
and investments, in the UK, Norway and 
North America, as well as a continued 
focus on cost efficiency across the Group. 
As a result we have been able to grow the 
full-year dividend by more than the rate of 
inflation for the 13th year in succession, in 
addition to launching a £500 million share 
repurchase programme in early 2013.
Downstream at British Gas, we are facing 
increased costs in supplying energy, most 
of which are external to the Group. In this 
tough economic climate, we are committed 
to doing everything we can to help our 
customers. We have made sure that energy 
choices are simple and transparent, and  
we lead the way in standards of customer 
service, innovation, help for the vulnerable 
and energy efficiency. The weak economy 
continues to have an adverse impact on 
British Gas Business. However we were 
able to deliver strong double-digit profit 
growth in British Gas Services, largely 
through tight cost control coupled with 
continuing high standards of service.
Upstream at Centrica Energy, we continue 
to invest to secure energy supplies for the 
UK. We completed three acquisitions of 
gas and oil assets, delivering a step change 
in annual production and strengthening the 
geographic spread of our portfolio. In 
power, our Lincs offshore wind farm has 
generated first power and will be fully 
operational later in 2013. While market 
conditions remain challenging for gas-fired 
plants the nuclear fleet performed well, 
with increased output and seven year life 
extensions for Hinkley Point B and 
Hunterston B. In nuclear new build, while 
significant progress has been made, there 
remains	uncertainty	about	overall	project	
costs and the construction schedule. 
These factors, in particular the lengthening 
time frame for a return on the capital 
invested	in	a	project	of	this	scale,	has	led	
us to conclude that participation is not 
right for Centrica and in February 2013 we 
announced our decision not to participate. 
In Centrica Storage, we delivered an 
increase in profit through strong 
operational and commercial performance. 
In North America, at Direct Energy we 
delivered further profit and customer 
growth in an environment of low gas prices 
and we have successfully integrated recent 
acquisitions into the business. We continue 
to see North America as an attractive 
market to deploy capital, both upstream 
and downstream, for growth and for value. 
We remain on track to deliver our Group-
wide £500 million cost reduction 
programme, sharpening the business and 
maintaining our competitive edge. At the 
same time we have retained our absolute 
focus on safety which continues to be a 
core priority across all our activities. Our 
downstream businesses have continued 
their significant reduction in accident rates. 
Upstream operations had no significant 
process safety events in 2012 and 
continue to implement their rigorous 
programme of process safety management 
systems. At a Group level we have 
developed a more comprehensive process 
to provide greater assurance of HSE 
compliance to the Board and Executive. 
This strong safety culture is reflected in our 
performance,	with	the	lost	time	injury	
frequency rate (LTIFR) falling by 20%. 
Overall, Centrica is delivering consistent 
earnings growth and it is this which allows 
us to make our fair contribution to the 
economy and society through investment, 
employment, tax payments and dividends.
Helping our customers in 
difficult times
Taking the lead in making energy 
choices simple and transparent
In February 2013, Ofgem announced that  
it was preparing for final proposals and a 
statutory consultation to be published 
around the end of March 2013 on its reforms  15 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Chief Executive’s Review
hOW d O We MeaSURe 
Up again St OUR 
pRiORitie S?
Our key performance  
indicators can be found  
on page 18
to make the household energy market 
simpler, clearer and fairer for consumers. 
These follow on from initial findings 
published in March 2011 and updated 
proposals announced in October 2012. 
The headline proposals are a welcome 
step forward for the industry and will help 
to improve customer trust, engagement and 
understanding. However, it is important that 
these positive developments do not have 
the unintended consequence of restricting 
choice and innovation. We have already 
implemented a number of changes 
consistent with the headline proposals, 
including simplifying our tariff structures and 
publishing price comparison information to 
make it easy for customers to ensure they 
are on the most appropriate British Gas 
tariff for them.
Customer service, cost efficiency and 
innovation remain at the heart of everything 
we do. British Gas operating costs fell year 
on year, but not at the expense of service, 
as our Net Promoter Score (NPS) 
increased once again, to +30, and we 
were awarded the top five star rating for 
customer service from Consumer Focus. 
Our improved online platform handled 13% 
more transactions than in 2011, achieving  
a better customer experience and lower 
costs. Our new ‘Remote Heating Control’ 
product allows customers to monitor and 
control their energy use when they are 
away from the home, and we have now 
installed over 800,000 smart meters for 
homes and businesses – substantially 
more than any other UK energy supplier.
We also spend more than any other energy 
supplier on those who are most in need of 
support. In 2012, 400,000 of our most 
vulnerable customers received the Warm 
Home Discount, now worth £130 off their 
annual bill. We are also at the forefront of 
measures to help people use less energy, 
installing insulation for nearly 700,000 
customers during the year.
Despite the squeeze on household 
budgets, British Gas Services performed 
well. We improved retention rates across 
our product range demonstrating the value 
which customers place on our services. 
However, in current economic conditions  
it is difficult to attract new customers and 
we also saw a reduction in boiler 
installation volumes, down 10% from last 
year. The economic impact was seen more 
clearly in British Gas Business, leading to 
lower profitability and a reduction in the 
number of accounts served in a highly 
competitive market. We are therefore taking 
steps to put this business on a stronger 
footing for long-term growth, including 
introducing new systems to improve levels 
of customer service, at lower cost. Over 
time, we also expect to achieve growth in 
business services, particularly through 
Energy Performance Contracts.
Innovation in North America
In North America, greater competition  
has been welcomed by regulators and 
customers in our core markets, Texas and 
the US North East. Acquisitions and organic 
growth have increased the size of our 
business and we now have 3.5 million 
residential energy customer accounts  
and around 6 million residential energy  
and services accounts in total.
We continue to focus on providing 
attractive and innovative products to  
our residential and business customers, 
building on our Group-wide expertise in 
competitive markets. Our prepaid ‘Power 
to Go’ product in Texas continues to grow, 
while in the US North East the introduction 
of ‘Free Power Saturdays’ has encouraged 
customers to rephase their electricity use 
to off-peak times. We are specifically 
tailoring offers for small business 
customers while continuing to deliver high 
levels of service. Our energy services 
business gives us the ability to differentiate 
ourselves from our competitors with 
additional higher margin propositions.
In Ontario, restrictions on competition 
continue to make it difficult for us both to 
retain customers and attract new ones. We 
no longer view this business as core and 
are managing costs to continue serving our 
existing customers as efficiently as possible.
Securing sustainable and 
affordable energy supplies
The Group invested £2.7 billion of capital  
in 2012, helping to secure supplies for the 
UK. Around £2 billion of that was invested 
in North Sea gas and oil assets, including  
the completion of three acquisitions. This 
materially increased the scale and 
“   wE hAvE tAKEn th E LEAD DUrin G 2012 in 
heLping MOR e hOUSehOLdS Save eneR gy 
and SU ppORting the pe OpLe WhO need  
th E MOSt h ELP . “
  Sam Laidlaw
 Chief Executive Business Review – Chief Executive’s Review
16 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
SOURCing and 
pROCURing the R ight 
ene Rgy at the R ight 
pRiCe
Read about Centrica  
Energy’s activities  
on page 26
geographic diversity of the business and 
Norway is now a core part of our portfolio, 
with a number of attractive producing, 
development and exploration assets. Over 
the past three years we have developed 
significant capabilities in upstream and 
midstream, leaving us well placed for 
future growth. 
We achieved first gas from our Ensign, 
Seven	Seas	and	Atla	development	projects	
during the year, with first gas expected 
from York and Rhyl in the coming weeks.  
In early 2013, we had positive results  
from exploration drilling at Rodriquez and 
Whitehaven. However we recorded a lower 
level of drilling success in 2012 than in 
previous years, including a development 
well failure at Ensign which resulted in a 
pre-tax write-off of £73 million. Construction 
has now begun at the £1.4 billion Cygnus 
project.	Cygnus	is	the	largest	gas	discovery	
in the Southern North Sea in the last 25 
years	and	will	create	4,000	jobs	during	the	
construction phase, predominantly in the 
UK. At peak production it will be able to 
meet the demand of nearly 1.5 million 
UK homes.
We achieved first power from our 270MW 
Lincs offshore wind farm in the year. When 
fully operational by the second half of 2013 
it will be able to meet the annual demand of 
more than 200,000 homes. We were also 
granted planning consent for 580MW at 
the	Race	Bank	offshore	wind	farm	project.	
We are willing to commit £200 million for 
the	project,	and	are	in	discussion	with	a	
financial partner and the Government 
concerning the economic framework. 
Investment in the existing nuclear fleet is 
ongoing, with the expectation for nuclear 
plant life extensions for the AGR fleet now 
seven years on average, compared to the 
five previously assumed. In gas-fired 
generation we have recently sanctioned a 
turbine blade upgrade at our 1.2GW South 
Humber power station. We also have 
strong capabilities in gas storage, and two 
potentially	attractive	projects,	Baird	and	
Caythorpe. However the market remains 
challenging	for	new	gas	storage	projects	
and we will only invest if the returns are 
appropriate for the level of risk undertaken. 
However, as with all our investment 
options, we will only deploy capital where 
the UK Government’s Electricity Market 
Reform and Gas Strategy both indicating  
a long-term role for gas-fired generation. 
However, the sources of UK gas are 
changing, with North Sea reserves declining 
and becoming more expensive to develop. 
This places more reliance on imported 
pipeline gas and particularly LNG, and 
leaves the UK increasingly exposed to 
global gas prices. 
At the same time, the nature of low carbon 
power investments in the UK is changing, 
with affordability for consumers 
increasingly	the	focus	of	attention.	Projects	
are becoming larger in scale, with higher 
capital costs and longer construction 
times, while the fixed price nature of the 
Contract for Difference mechanism means 
that output will no longer act as a hedge 
against downstream price volatility. 
Against this backdrop, our vision is to be 
the leading integrated energy company, 
with customers at our core. We have 
refreshed our strategic priorities to position 
Centrica to best advantage in this 
demanding	but	exciting	new	world:	
•	 	 Innovate	to	drive	growth	and	service	
excellence
 –  Lead with great service and efficient 
operations
 –  Enable our customers to control their 
energy use in a simpler, smarter, more 
efficient way
 –  Grow in selected markets, building on 
our leading capabilities 
•	 	 Integrate	our	natural	gas	business,	linked	
to our core markets
 –  Grow and diversify our exploration and 
production portfolio for value
 –  Develop our midstream business to 
integrate along the gas value chain
 –  Maintain a low carbon power hedge 
and invest where we see value
•	 	 Increase	our	returns	through	efficiency	
and continued capital discipline
 –  Further develop organisational 
capability
 –  Continuously focus on safety
 –  Deliver value to shareholders
These strategic priorities apply across our 
businesses in the UK, North America and 
internationally. In order to reinforce delivery 
of the priorities we are moving to an 
Revie W Of the yea R COntin Ued
we see attractive value, aligned to our  
core competencies. In this context, we 
announced in October that we would not 
proceed with plans to build two dedicated 
biomass plants, following recent clarification 
on the regulatory framework indicating a 
Government preference for coal conversion. 
Earlier this month, we also announced that 
we would not participate in the construction 
of up to four new nuclear reactors in the 
UK. While we believe that nuclear power 
has an important role to play in the UK’s 
energy mix, the likely cost and timescale  
of	this	project	led	us	to	conclude	that	it	 
was not in the best interests of Centrica 
shareholders for us to participate.
New strategic priorities to reflect 
changing market conditions
World gas markets are evolving and we 
have to evolve with them. Shale gas in 
North America and LNG globally have 
transformed the landscape. Gas will 
continue	to	play	a	major	role	in	the	UK,	
both	in	heating	the	overwhelming	majority	
of homes and businesses and as part of a 
diverse fuel mix for power generation, with  17 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Chief Executive’s Review
international functional organisation with  
a new management structure, aligned to 
our core competencies downstream and 
upstream. And we will do all this with the 
clear	objective	of	increasing	our	returns,	
through efficiency and continued capital 
discipline. Chris Weston will lead the 
international downstream business, as  
we build on our distinctive capabilities in 
service, systems, energy services and 
efficiency, in the UK and North America. 
Mark Hanafin will lead the international 
upstream business as we continue to 
develop opportunities along the gas value 
chain and invest where we see attractive 
value. Both Chris and Mark have extensive 
experience in the UK and North America, 
and are therefore well placed to take on 
the task ahead.
Innovate to drive growth and service 
excellence
Underlying household energy consumption 
in the UK will continue to fall as appliances 
and homes become more efficient. 
However with the UK increasingly exposed 
to global gas prices, and non-commodity 
costs expected to rise year on year, 
affordability will remain an important issue. 
By contrast, the low gas price environment 
in North America makes affordability less 
of an issue, and favourable market 
conditions in the United States offer a 
good opportunity for growth. On both 
sides of the Atlantic, the roll-out of smart 
meters will give customers a new level of 
control over their energy use and we need 
to be innovative in the way we help them 
meet their evolving energy needs. 
In the UK, we have developed a leading 
online platform and leading customer 
systems. We will also take advantage of 
our strong positions in energy services  
and smart meters to develop exciting new 
propositions, with offerings increasingly 
tailored to the needs of individual 
customers. Through relentless focus on 
service excellence, innovation and cost 
efficiency, we aim to maintain stable 
margins in residential energy supply, and 
target continued expansion in residential 
services. In business energy we have 
laid the groundwork for future growth, 
although in the near term market 
conditions remain challenging.
In North America too, service, innovation 
and cost efficiency will remain a core focus. 
But the continued liberalisation of markets 
in the United States, and the undeveloped 
nature of energy services provision, offer 
an opportunity to grow our customer base, 
both organically and through acquisition. 
We will continue to evaluate both bolt-on 
and larger acquisitions but remain focused 
on returns and will only transact where we 
see value. We will use our UK expertise and 
experience to develop our protection plan 
offerings in North America and we will 
increase the level of energy and services 
bundling over time. Over the next three to 
five years we are targeting a doubling of 
profitability in the North America downstream 
business, through a combination of organic 
growth and acquisitions, with Direct Energy 
downstream becoming a more material 
part of the Group.
Integrate our natural gas business, 
linked to our core markets
In an increasingly global market, we must 
secure gas from a wider range of sources 
and will consider at which stages of the supply 
chain we can add value, expanding the 
scope of our activities where appropriate. 
The aim is to connect sources of energy  
to our customers, building an integrated 
international business focused on the 
Atlantic basin.
The UK and Norway will remain an 
important part of our upstream investment 
and activity, as we look to maintain an 
appropriate energy hedge. We will invest  
in assets with a link to existing hubs while 
looking to divest non-core assets. However, 
with the development of North Sea fields 
becoming increasingly expensive, 
particularly in the UK, we will refresh our 
focus on value. In North America we will 
consider both conventional and 
unconventional assets, and there is also 
potential for gas exports later in the decade. 
Overall, we will invest where we see value 
across our international portfolio, delivering 
annual production in the range 75mmboe to 
100mmboe. In addition, we will look to build 
on our existing midstream capabilities and 
positions along the gas value chain, focusing 
on asset optimisation and gas contracting 
with an emerging LNG presence, provided 
we can do so in a capital efficient manner.
Our focus in UK power generation will be to 
preserve our existing power hedge, investing 
where we have a competitive advantage and 
see attractive returns. We retain a number  
of offshore wind opportunities, at Race Bank 
and in the Irish Sea. However, we will only 
invest for value and will seek to reduce our 
equity ownership through partnering where 
appropriate. We also retain options to build 
new CCGTs. However spark spreads remain 
at historically low levels and much will 
depend on the final outcome of Electricity 
Market Reform and the implementation of 
a capacity market in the UK.
Increase our returns through efficiency 
and continued capital discipline
In 2013, Centrica faces new challenges, 
including the loss of free carbon 
allowances. But we will continue to benefit 
from our cost reduction programme, from 
organic growth and also from the full-year 
impact of acquisitions, both upstream in 
gas and oil production and in North 
America. In this context, it is vital that we 
continue to focus on operational efficiency, 
reducing costs wherever possible for the 
benefit of customers and shareholders.  
All this must be done without in any way 
compromising our strong focus on health 
and safety.
Centrica has a robust balance sheet and 
generates strong cash flows and we retain 
a number of investment opportunities 
across the Group. This combination, allied 
to our expertise and experience both 
upstream and downstream, defines 
Centrica’s core capabilities. However,  
we will maintain capital discipline, as 
evidenced by our recently announced £500 
million share repurchase programme, only 
investing where we see value. Our aim now 
is to use those strengths to innovate and 
grow while adapting to a rapidly evolving 
energy world, serving our customers and 
delivering value to shareholders.
Sam Laidlaw
Chief Executive
27 February 2013 18 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Key Performance Indicators
key peR f ORMan Ce indi Cat ORS
We monitor our performance by measuring and tracking key performance  
indicators (KPis) that we believe are important to our longer-term success.  
Long-term sustainable performance of these kpis is linked to the remuneration 
arrangements of our Executive Directors and senior executives.
finan CiaL
Adjusted operating 
profit
Operating profit is our  
key measure for financial 
performance. For 
remuneration purposes, 
operating	profit	is	adjusted	
to a post-tax basis and by a 
charge on capital to set the 
economic profit 
performance targets.
Target for 2013  
To continue to drive towards 
our three-year economic 
profit target range of  
£2.6 billion to £3.4 billion.
Adjusted operating 
profit £m
2,390
2,415
2,743
2010
2011
2012
£2,743m
Adjusted operating profit  
2011: £2,415m
Adjusted basic earnings 
per share (EPS)
EPS is an industry standard 
determining corporate 
profitability for shareholders. 
EPS	is	adjusted	to	reflect	
better the performance of 
the business. 2012 saw 
growth in our EPS despite 
the challenging economic 
conditions during the year.
Target for 2013  
To deliver real growth  
in	adjusted	EPS	over	
successive three-year 
periods.
Adjusted basic earnings 
per share pence
25.2
25.8
27.1
2010
2011
2012
27.1p
EPS  
2011: 25.8p
Dividend per share
Dividend per share indicates 
the level of earnings 
distributed to Centrica 
shareholders. The 2012 
dividend shows an increase 
of 6% on the 2011 dividend.
Target for 2013  
To deliver real growth each 
year. Dividends paid 
contribute to relative TSR.
Ordinary dividend pence
14.3
15.4
16.4
2010
2011
2012
16.4p
Total dividend  
2011: 15.4p
Total shareholder 
return (TSR)
The Board believes that TSR 
is a valuable KPI to assess 
the Company’s performance 
in the delivery of shareholder 
value. Centrica has 
outperformed the FTSE 100 
Index by 19% over the 
previous five years.
Target for 2013  
To deliver improved levels of 
relative TSR as a measure of 
performance over a sustained 
period.
Total shareholder return 
indices (unaudited)
Centrica return index Centrica return index
FTSE 100 return index
31 December 2007 = 100
70
90
110
130
07 08 09
Year
  10    11   12   
19%
TSR outperformance 
over five years  
2011: 5% 19 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Key Performance Indicators
nOn-finan CiaL
Lost time injury 
frequency rate (LTIFR)
Safety is one of our core 
priorities. We continue to 
raise our standards of 
performance through strong 
leadership and on-going 
programmes to raise 
awareness and reinforce a 
positive and proactive safety 
culture across all our 
businesses. Initiatives 
across the Group in 2012 
led to a 20% reduction in 
our LTIFR per 100,000 
hours worked.
Target for 2013  
To continue to pursue a best 
practice safety culture and 
to at least maintain, and if 
possible further improve,  
our LTIFR.
LTIFR per 100,000 
hours worked
0.25
0.20
2011
0.43 2010*
2012
*  2010 figure does not include third-party 
managed contractors and is not directly 
comparable to 2011 and 2012 data.
0.20
LTIFR  
2011: 0.25
Process safety
We have introduced a 
separate process safety 
measure which focuses on 
the integrity of operating 
systems and processes  
that handle hazardous 
substances and therefore 
emphasises the importance 
of a positive safety culture.
There were no significant 
process safety events 
in 2012.
Target for 2013  
To continue to develop 
process safety strategies 
and training and to improve 
performance on all process 
safety metrics.
 
0
Significant events 
2011: 2
Employee engagement
We use a Group-wide 
employee survey to 
measure engagement and 
to receive feedback on how 
we can create a positive and 
challenging environment. 
We did not conduct a 
survey in 2011 but 
undertook a review on how 
we measure employee 
engagement and how to 
use it as a tool to drive 
business performance.  
The survey in 2012 resulted 
in a mean score of 4.72  
out of 6.
Target for 2013  
To continue to strive towards 
top quartile performance 
measured against an 
identified high performance 
benchmark range.
4.72 out of 6
Employee engagement 
2011: not applicable
Customer trust
We track our performance 
using net promoter scores 
(NPS) for our two customer-
facing	businesses:	British	
Gas in the UK and Direct 
Energy in North America.
From 2012 we have 
introduced low, median  
and high performance 
ranges for NPS.
British Gas NPS improved in 
2012 with an annual average 
score of +30, despite higher 
call volumes as a result of 
colder weather. Direct 
Energy NPS rose to +39.  
Both results were within the 
high performance range.
Target for 2013  
To remain within the high 
performance range.
Net promoter scores
+26
+30 2012
+28
+39
2011
2012
2011
British Gas 
Direct Energy 
+26
+30 2012
+28
+39
2011
2012
2011
British Gas 
Direct Energy 
Unless otherwise stated, all references to operating 
profit or loss, taxation and earnings numbers 
throughout	the	report	are	adjusted	figures,	as	
reconciled to their statutory equivalents in the  
Group Financial Review on pages 36 to 38
REm u n ER ATIOn REPORT
PA G E 61
  Gl OSSARy   PA G E 161 20 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Our Businesses
British Gas is Britain’s leading residential energy and services 
provider. Our energy business supplies gas and electricity to 
millions of homes and businesses in Britain, winning awards 
for high quality customer service and innovation. 
British Gas’ services business installs, repairs and maintains 
boilers and heating systems. Our engineers also service 
electrical systems, appliances, plumbing and drains. We help 
our business customers reduce their energy consumption 
and cut costs, with a range of value-added services.
British Gas is committed to an energy efficient future – 
whether it’s cutting consumption with insulation measures  
or the latest advances in solar panels and electric vehicles. 
We offer our customers the most up-to-date technology – 
including smart meters and automated heating and security 
systems.	We	bring	innovative	home	improvement	projects	to	
local communities. By focusing on our customers’ needs, 
British Gas keeps homes and businesses across Britain 
warm and working.
Centrica Energy is an international business delivering growth  
and shareholder value through a balanced mix of gas and oil 
production, power generation and energy trading.
Our upstream oil and gas business operates in the UK, the Irish 
Sea, the Norwegian and Dutch sectors of the North Sea, as well  
as in Trinidad and Tobago. In 2012, we added 170mmboe to  
our reserves.
Our power generation business has a fleet of gas-fired power 
stations, offshore wind farms and a 20% share in the power 
generated by EDF Energy’s UK nuclear power plants. 
Our midstream business operates in the UK and European energy 
markets, trading in energy produced both inside and outside the 
business. It also supplies British Gas with electricity and gas.
OUR BUSine SSeS
25 million
Customer accounts
56.7mmboe
Gas and liquids produced
21,489Gwh
Power generated
5 star
Customer service rating from  
Consumer Focus
30,305
Employees
1,788
Employees
£13,716m £4,321m
Revenue (2011: £12,315m) Revenue (2011: £4,459m)
£1,093m £1,230m
Adjusted operating profit (2011: £1,005m) Adjusted operating profit (2011: £1,023m)
OPER ATIn G REv IEw PAGE 22
OPER ATIn G REv IEw PAGE 26 21 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Our Businesses
Centrica Storage operates the Rough offshore gas storage 
facility in the Southern North Sea and the associated  
Easington Terminal.
The business stores gas in the Rough field on behalf of a 
number of customers, including utilities, gas traders, gas 
producers and other Centrica businesses. Gas is taken from 
the National Transmission System at Easington, piped offshore 
and	is	injected	into	a	subsea	reservoir,	to	be	delivered	back	
when it is required to meet seasonal peak demands.
Our Rough storage facility is the largest in the UK, able to meet 
approximately 10% of the UK’s current peak day demand and 
representing over 70% of UK storage capacity.
Recent	major	works	at	Easington	will	allow	us	to	process	gas	
from	Centrica’s	York	project	and,	potentially,	from	other	third	
parties in the future. 
Direct Energy is one of North America’s largest energy and 
energy related services providers. We provide choice and 
support in managing energy use and costs through our 
portfolio of innovative products and services. We operate  
under four lines of business.
Direct Energy Residential offers a wide range of fixed and 
variable natural gas and electricity pricing plans in addition  
to time-of-use and prepaid products using smart meter 
technologies. 
Direct Energy Business provides natural gas and electricity 
sales as well as energy efficiency management and services. 
Direct Energy Upstream manages natural gas production, 
power generation, midstream gas storage and transportation 
across North America. 
Direct Energy Services is North America’s largest provider  
of heating and cooling, plumbing and electrical services. 
0
Lost time incidents in three years
306
Employees
6,243
Employees
6 million
Customer accounts
70%
We own over 70% of the UK’s gas storage capacity
 10. 1mmboe
Gas and liquids produced
6,336Gwh 
Power generated
£164m £5,741m
Revenue (2011: £164m) Revenue (2011: £5,886m)
£89m £331m
Adjusted operating profit (2011: £75m) Adjusted operating profit (2011: £312m)
OPER ATIn G REv IEw PAGE 30
OPER ATIn G REv IEw PAGE 32 22 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Operating Review
BRiti Sh ga S
2012 was an important 
year for British gas – 
our 200th anniversary.  
in 1812, our founding 
company brought gas 
lighting to London’s 
streets for the first time. 
In 2012, we are still innovating. Today’s 
technology looks very different but our 
principles of service excellence for our 
customers are the same – that’s why  
we look after millions of homes in Britain.
One new innovation is smart meters. The 
British Gas roll-out programme is bringing 
significant benefits to customers. Smart 
meters bring with them ground-breaking 
new products and services – energy 
efficiency reports, time-of-use tariffs  
and itemised billing. 
New technology reaches its full potential 
only with an unrelenting commitment to 
service excellence. British Gas continues 
to lead the industry in service – whether it’s 
our award winning online presence and 
smartphone applications, downloaded 
more than 650,000 times, or our unique 
‘Model Visit’ and ‘Model Call’. British Gas 
established a Customer Board in 201 1 
which continues to play a role in ensuring 
we put customers at the heart of 
everything we do. By putting the customer 
front and centre we are growing existing 
sales channels and opening new ones.
British Gas is evolving from a supplier  
of electricity and gas to a provider of 
complete energy products and services. 
From remote heating controls to 
revolutionary energy efficiency services  
For the year ended 31 December 2012 2011
Adjusted operating profit
‡
 (£m)
Residential energy supply 606 544
Residential services 312 269
Business energy supply and services 175 192
Customer numbers (year end, ’000)
Residential energy customer accounts 15,656 15,881
Residential services product holdings 8,402 8,484
Business energy supply points 924 999
‡ From continuing operations
Phil Bentley
Managing Director, British Gas
Adjusted operating profit
‡
£m
“  We COntin Ue tO L ead the  
ind USt Ry in SM aRt M ete Ring, 
eneR gy effi CienCy, heL p f OR  
the v ULneRaBLe and in en SURing 
that OUR ene Rgy p ROpOSitiOn iS 
SiMPLE, fAir A nD tr AnSPAr Ent. ” 
840
712
1,011
1,216
1,005
1,093
2008 2007 2012 2011 2010 2009
for business customers, we’re making 
the connected home and connected 
business a reality, adding significant 
value to our business.
We have seen positive growth in our 
residential energy and services divisions. 
Although we face higher external costs 
– wholesale commodity, transportation 
and environmental – we have minimised 
the impact through the careful 
management of our own costs. We are 
leading the industry in energy efficiency 
measures and advice, helping our 
customers to reduce consumption. 
For 200 years we have brought 
innovation to Britain’s energy industry. 
We are delivering the profits that enable 
investments in alternative forms of energy 
and new gas fields to keep homes and 
businesses warm and well lit. We will 
continue to do so, making a successful 
British Gas good news for Britain. 23 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Operating Review
Good performance against a 
challenging economic backdrop
British Gas performed well in 2012, in a 
weak economy and with continuing 
increases to the cost of supplying energy. 
This is having a real impact for both 
residential and business customers and, 
against this backdrop, it is important that 
we continue to focus on improving 
customer service and reducing costs. We 
also continue to lead the industry in smart 
metering, energy efficiency, help for the 
vulnerable, and in ensuring that our energy 
proposition is simple, fair and transparent.
In residential energy supply, we delivered 
margins in line with our through-cycle 
expectations, in a period where all 
suppliers were faced with higher wholesale 
gas prices and higher non-commodity 
costs, including the cost of upgrading the 
UK’s gas and electricity grids and meeting 
carbon reduction targets. Weather 
conditions were cooler than usual, following 
unusually mild temperatures in 2011. 
Average gas consumption was therefore 
higher compared to the prior year, partially 
offset by efficiency measures taken by our 
customers, including the take-up of our 
free insulation offers and the installation  
of more efficient central heating systems. 
As a result of higher consumption and 
costs, the average gas and electricity bill 
increased year on year and was made  
up	as	follows:
For a 2012 average annual gas and 
electricity bill of £1,188* the costs are:
External
Wholesale energy £568
Delivery to customer £283
 Environmental and social policies £112
Taxes £72
Internal
Operating costs £104
Profit £49
*  Based on British Gas 2012 financial results and consumption 
and is an average of all payment types/tariffs/regions.
In residential services, we again delivered 
double digit profit growth despite the 
challenging economic climate, primarily 
driven by cost efficiencies, while continued 
high service levels resulted in strong 
customer retention. The weak economy 
and competitive pressures continue to 
have an adverse impact on our business 
energy supply division, and we are 
investing in back office systems to reduce 
cost and enhance customer service. 
The health and safety of our employees 
and customers remains a core priority. Our 
lost	time	injury	frequency	rate	(LTIFR)	was	
0.23	per	100,000	hours	worked	(2011:	
0.29), a 21% reduction over the past year. 
We are also focused on maintaining high 
levels of employee engagement and 
recognising the commitment our people 
make to delivering excellent customer 
service. This was reflected in British Gas 
being nominated in The Sunday Times 
‘Best Big Companies to Work For’ for  
the fourth year in a row. 
Helping our customers in  
difficult times
In February 2013, Ofgem announced that  
it was preparing for final proposals and a 
statutory consultation to be published 
around the end of March 2013 on its 
reforms to make the household energy 
market simpler, clearer and fairer for 
consumers. These follow on from initial 
findings published in March 2011 and 
updated proposals announced in October 
2012. The headline proposals are a welcome 
step forward for the industry. However, it is 
important that the proposals on product 
range, restricting each supplier to four tariff 
types, do not restrict customer choice or 
market innovation. British Gas has already 
implemented changes consistent with 
many of the headline proposals. We have 
simplified our tariffs, including a new 
standing charge and single rate structure 
as part of a commitment to phase out 
two-tier tariffs. We have also been 
publishing price comparison information 
on our annual statements since March, 
allowing customers to check whether they 
are on the most appropriate British Gas 
tariff, while we were awarded five stars  
by Which? in July for clarity of billing  
and account management. More recently, 
we have built the capability to provide  
a personalised price comparison on  
each customer’s bill, based on their  
actual consumption. 
We continued to deliver high levels of 
customer service in 2012. In residential 
energy, our average call answering and 
handling times were lower than in 2011 
while the volume of calls received fell and  
in October, Consumer Focus awarded us 
their top 5 star customer service rating. In 
residential services, our customer service 
metrics remained strong, despite higher 
call volumes as a result of the colder 
weather. Meanwhile complaints fell, and 
customer churn was at its lowest ever level. 
The overall British Gas Net Promoter Score 
(NPS) increased from +26 to +30. 
Ar OUnD 15,000 Of 
OUR CUStOM eRS aRe 
nOW USing ‘Re MOte 
heating C OntROL’
During the year we launched our  
award winning ‘Remote Heating Control’ 
product which allows customers to 
monitor and control their central heating 
system via the internet or a smart phone. 
For our smart meter customers, we also 
launched the ‘Smart Energy Report’ to 
provide visibility of how their energy is 
being used and to help them reduce 
their consumption. 24 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Operating Review
During 2012 we further developed our 
online platform. We now have 3.4 million 
online registered customers, a 20% 
increase since last year, and over a third of 
all energy bills are now sent electronically. 
Seven out of ten customer own meter reads 
are submitted online and we have over one 
million accounts on EnergySmart which 
helps customers monitor and manage their 
energy usage. We have launched leading 
applications for both Apple and Android 
smart phones and have seen more than 
650,000 downloads to date. Around a 
quarter of all website contacts are now 
made through mobile devices. 
We continue to help our most vulnerable 
customers and maintain the widest 
eligibility criteria among all energy suppliers 
for the Warm Home Discount, which 
helped 400,000 customers during the year. 
In October, we announced ‘Better Homes 
for Britain’, a five year partnership with 
Shelter to help one million British households 
living in private rental property improve the 
standard of their homes. We also lead the 
industry in energy efficiency. Since 2008, 
British Gas has installed 1.7 million insulation 
measures to homes across the UK through 
the CERT and CESP programmes. Under 
these schemes, British Gas was required 
to meet a variety of carbon emissions 
reduction targets by 31 December 2012. 
Overall we expect to fulfil our total carbon 
saving targets in the first quarter of 2013, 
although finding customers who qualify  
as being in the ‘Super Priority Group’  
has proved challenging and this particular 
sub-target will not be fully met. However, 
Ofgem has indicated that mitigating actions 
undertaken after 31 December will also be 
taken into account when assessing delivery.
Customer accounts stabilised 
despite competitive market 
conditions
A slight fall in wholesale electricity prices  
at the end of 2011 allowed us to implement 
a 5% reduction in our standard domestic 
electricity tariff in January, re-establishing 
British	Gas	as	the	cheapest	major	
electricity supplier on average in Britain. 
However, like the rest of the industry, we 
are facing higher external costs. Wholesale 
gas prices are 13% higher for winter 
2012/13 than for winter 2011/12, while  
Our competitive pricing position has now 
improved following the implementation of 
price	rises	by	all	major	suppliers	and	we	
have seen a return to growth in the early 
weeks of 2013. We have 5 million customers 
enrolled in the Nectar loyalty programme, 
which reduces our cost to serve and 
improves the customer experience by 
incentivising the use of our online platform, 
including the submission of meter reads 
and payment by direct debit.
The number of residential services  
product holdings fell slightly to 8.4 million 
(2011:	8.5	million),	with	weak	economic	
conditions making sales of new contracts 
challenging. Retention rates improved 
however, with strong levels of customer 
service supporting attractive customer 
propositions. We decided in the second 
half of the year to strengthen our Plumbing 
and Drains product by expanding the 
cover to include the water supply pipe. As 
a result we are no longer selling a separate 
water supply pipe product and our product 
holdings have been restated accordingly. 
The economic environment continued to 
impact boiler installation volumes, which 
fell	10%	to	94,000	(2011:	105,000),	
although operating profit increased as  
we focused on reducing our cost base.  
We continue to develop new affinity 
relationships to enable us to offer energy 
and services products to a wider customer 
base. In July, we signed a broad strategic 
partnership with the RAC covering a 
number of areas, including roadside 
breakdown,	joint	procurement	and	affinity	
marketing, and the first sales were made in 
November. In electric vehicles, we are the 
preferred supplier of home charging 
solutions	for	five	major	car	manufacturers.	
The number of business energy supply 
points fell by 8% over the year, to 924,000 
(2011:	999,000)	due	to	the	challenging	
economic and competitive environment 
which is putting pressure on contract 
renewal rates and margins. However, we 
have recently received the letter of intent to 
award the renewal of a significant 
electricity contract from the Government 
Procurement Service comprising 70,000 
sites for a term of four years. A new 
management team is in place and we 
continue to invest in our back office 
the cost of upgrading the UK’s gas and 
electricity grids and meeting carbon 
reduction targets increased by £50 per 
customer in 2012. As a result, in October 
we announced a rise in domestic gas and 
electricity prices by an average of 6%, 
which was implemented in November.
The number of residential energy  
customer accounts on supply reduced by 
1%	during	the	year,	to	15.7	million	(2011:	
15.9 million). This reflected a short term 
increase in customer churn following the 
implementation of the price rise, although 
churn of 9% over the year was at its lowest 
ever level reflecting good customer service. 
hO w d Id w E m EASu RE u P?  
BRITISh GAS PERf ORm An CE mEAS u RES 
CAn BE f Ound O n PAGES 146 And 147
BRiti Sh ga S COntin Ued 25 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Operating Review
customers are now using the product and, 
as part of a bundle, it is also driving higher 
sales conversion of central heating systems. 
For our smart meter customers, we also 
launched the ‘Smart Energy Report’ to 
provide visibility of how their energy is 
being used and to help them reduce 
their consumption. 
We will continue to lead the transition to 
smart connected homes and businesses, 
offering attractive propositions, which will 
improve customer engagement and deliver 
lower costs for the business.
Innovate to drive growth and 
service excellence
Performance in 2012 in a challenging 
economic and competitive environment 
has demonstrated that our business model 
remains sound. In residential energy 
supply it will be increasingly important to 
differentiate our offering through service 
excellence and innovation. Our scale and 
leadership in customer service, cost 
efficiency and systems leave us well 
placed to continue to deliver a fair level  
of margin in this business. In residential 
services, our focus remains on offering 
attractive customer propositions and 
delivering service excellence, while also 
working to reduce costs further during 
2013. We expect to deliver continued  
profit growth in services, although not  
at the high levels achieved in 2012. In 
business energy supply, the environment 
remains challenging. We are investing in 
our back office systems to reduce costs 
and improve service and, over time, we 
expect business services to make a more 
material contribution. Looking to the future, 
smart meters are a key enabler in the  
trend towards the ‘smart connected 
home’. British Gas’ leadership in smart 
metering and technology will enable us  
to capitalise on this trend, deepening 
customer relationships and differentiating 
our energy and services offer to drive 
long-term growth.
systems to reduce costs, sharpen our 
competitive position and enhance our 
customer service. In business services  
we have made good progress. We have 
now been selected as preferred contractor 
on seven multi-year energy performance 
contracts with public sector organisations 
and have a strong pipeline for the 
year ahead.
More normal weather and cost 
reduction programme driving 
profit growth
After an unseasonally warm 2011, total 
British Gas gross revenue increased to 
£13,857	million	(2011:	£12,403	million)	
reflecting higher gas sales volumes. Total 
British Gas operating profit increased to 
£1,093	million	(2011:	£1,005	million).	We	
continue to make good progress on our 
cost reduction programme and are on 
track to deliver £300 million of cost savings 
across British Gas by the end of 2013.  
We are seeing the benefit of previous 
investment in industry-leading IT systems 
and have achieved savings through a 
range of initiatives, including a pay freeze 
for employees and changes to the defined 
benefit pension schemes. During 2012,  
we closed our Southampton call centre, 
outsourced a number of roles in British 
Gas Services and British Gas Business, 
reduced IT costs through new working 
practices, offshored and transitioned to 
new data centres and agreed improved 
commercial terms with suppliers. As a 
result, including the impact of investment  
in growth areas, operating costs were 1% 
lower in 2012 than in the prior period and, 
despite the weak economy, the bad debt 
charge as a proportion of revenue fell as 
the benefits of improved systems and 
processes were realised.
In residential energy, gross revenue 
increased	to	£9,121	million	(2011:	£7 ,930	
million) reflecting higher consumption and 
retail tariffs. After a warm 2011, cooler 
weather in 2012 saw average domestic 
gas consumption increase by 12%, more 
than offsetting underlying energy efficiency 
reductions. Average electricity consumption 
was broadly flat compared to 2011. 
Residential energy operating profit 
increased	to	£606	million	(2011:	£544	
million). Commodity and transportation 
and distribution costs both increased, 
while environmental costs rose by 22% to 
£732	million	(2011:	£599	million).	The	
residential energy operating margin was 
6.6%	(2011:	6.9%),	in	line	with	our	through-
cycle expectations. 
In residential services, gross revenue 
increased	slightly	to	£1,674	million	(2011:	
£1,644 million) with a rise in revenue from 
insulation	jobs	more	than	offsetting	a	
decline in installations revenue. Operating 
profit increased by 16% to £312 million 
(2011:	£269	million),	while	the	operating	
margin	increased	to	18.6%	(2011:	16.4%)	
driven by cost efficiencies and an improved 
contribution from our new markets activity.
In business energy supply and services, 
gross revenue increased to £3,062 million 
(2011:	£2,829	million)	with	operating	profit	
falling	by	9%	to	£175	million	(2011:	£192	
million), reflecting the challenging external 
environment. Business services revenue 
increased by 12% compared to 2011.
Leading the transition to smart 
connected homes and businesses
We continue to lead the industry in smart 
metering and have now installed over 
800,000 smart meters in homes and 
businesses. We welcomed the 
Government’s confirmation of the 
standards for the smart meter roll-out and 
we are the only supplier currently installing 
fully compliant Phase 3 meters in 
customers’ homes. Smart meters are a 
key enabler for a range of technologies 
and by going early on the roll-out we have 
gained invaluable experience. We are also 
starting to see the benefit of smart meters 
delivering an enhanced customer 
experience, including significantly lower 
contact rates, fewer complaints and higher 
retention. We have made a number of 
investments in smart technology 
companies, including AlertMe, which 
enables a range of home automation 
applications and Power Plus 
Communications, which specialises in 
smart applications in complex buildings. 
During the year we launched our award 
winning ‘Remote Heating Control’ product 
which allows customers to monitor and 
control their central heating system via the 
internet or a smart phone. Around 15,000  26 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Operating Review
Cent RiCa eneR gy
For the year ended 31 December 2012 2011
Adjusted operating profit
‡
 (£m)
Gas 919 769
Power 311 254
Gas and power
Gas production (mmth) 2,441 2,160
Liquids production (mmboe) 16.3 12.5
Proven and probable reserves (mmboe) 525 410
Power generated (TWh) 21.5 26.7
Adjusted operating profit
‡
£m
Mark Hanafin
Managing Director, Centrica Energy
“   t he ga S MaRket i S BeCOMing 
inCr EASinGLy GLOBAL. wE AiM  
tO BU iLd an integ Rated 
inteR nati Ona L BUSineSS f OCUSed 
On th E At LAnti C BASin. ”
2012 saw Centrica 
energy make significant 
steps in delivering 
growth and value in its 
upstream gas and oil, 
power generation and 
midstream businesses.
In upstream gas and oil, we added 
170mmboe	to	our	reserves.	The	majority	
of these were added in Norway, helping 
to treble the size of our reserve base in 
this important region for growth. We also 
deepened our involvement in Norway by 
extending our Memorandum of 
Understanding with Statoil, enabling us 
to continue working together on gas 
exploration opportunities in Norway  
and the UK. This announcement was 
welcomed by the Prime Minister as  
helping to forge a strategically important 
relationship between the two nations. 
The £1.4 billion development of the Cygnus 
field, the biggest gas discovery in the 
Southern North Sea for a quarter of a 
century, is now underway. Cygnus is 
expected	to	create	around	4,000	jobs	in	
the development phase, underlining the 
importance of the energy sector for UK 
economic growth. In other UK North Sea 
projects,	we	achieved	first	gas	at	the	
Ensign and Seven Seas fields in 2012.
2012 also saw important developments in 
offshore wind. We received planning 
consent for 580MW at the Race Bank 
wind farm to be built off the Lincolnshire 
coast − close to our 270MW Lincs 
development. Lincs achieved first power 
and is due for completion in 2013. The 
continued development in renewables 
and a strong operating performance by 
the nuclear fleet delivered significant 
value for the Group and helped to offset 
the challenging conditions currently 
facing our gas-fired generation fleet. 
Health, safety and environmental  
issues remain a core priority and  
we have continued to focus on the 
management	of	our	major	accident	
hazards. We have been progressively 
improving competence, reporting  
and accountability to ensure we  
are effectively managing process  
safety controls.
Despite the difficult external conditions in 
2012, Centrica Energy is well positioned 
to deliver growth and value across its 
portfolio.
663
881
525
771
1,023
1,230
2008 2007 2012 2011 2010 2009
‡ From continuing operations 27 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Operating Review
A more balanced upstream 
business
Centrica Energy made significant progress 
during 2012 on its strategy to deliver value 
and growth. In upstream gas and oil, we 
integrated three North Sea acquisitions  
in 2012. This delivered a step change for 
the business, increasing production and 
significantly enhancing the scale and 
balance of our portfolio. In power, although 
the operating environment for gas-fired 
generation remains challenging, the 
business benefited from strong nuclear 
operational performance.
We have achieved a number of key  
project	milestones,	bringing	reserves	into	
production and generating first power from 
our	270MW	Lincs	offshore	wind	project.	
We have also made important steps to 
develop future cornerstone assets, with 
good progress at the Valemon gas field 
and the sanctioning of the £1.4 billion 
Cygnus gas field, one of the largest 
remaining development opportunities  
in the UK North Sea.
Total Centrica Energy operating profit 
increased	by	20%	to	£1,230	million	(2011:	
£1,023 million) with increased profit in both 
gas and power. This increase in profit was 
in part helped by the delivery of a series of 
cost initiatives in 2012 and the business is 
on track to deliver its contribution of cost 
savings to Group targets. These savings 
have not compromised on our continued 
focus on health, safety and environmental 
practices. Centrica Energy continues to 
progress its process safety programme, 
which focuses on the integrity of operating 
systems and processes that handle 
hazardous substances. We had no 
significant process safety events in 2012.  
In terms of environmental practices, we are 
committed to operating responsibly and 
will continue to engage with stakeholders, to 
understand and manage the environmental 
and social issues associated with new and 
existing investments.
Increased gas and oil reserves 
and production
Between November 2011 and February 
2012 we announced three North Sea 
acquisitions, all of which completed during 
2012, for a total of £1.2 billion. Overall, we 
added 170 million barrels of oil equivalent 
(mmboe) of 2P reserves in the year, as a 
result of acquisitions, upgrades of existing 
hubs	such	as	Rhyl	and	bringing	new	projects	
such as Maria into the development pipeline. 
After taking production into account, we 
ended the year at 525mmboe of 2P reserves 
(201 1:	410mmboe).	Our	Norwegian	business	
now forms a significant part of the portfolio 
following the acquisitions, accounting for 
41% of our upstream gas and oil reserves, 
compared to 18% at the end of 2011.
during 2012, and with new fields coming 
into production offsetting the natural 
decline from our existing fields, total 
production volumes are expected to 
increase by a further 15%. 
Adding value through gas and  
oil development, appraisal  
and exploration
We achieved first gas at Seven Seas and 
Atla in the second half of the year, following 
on from Ensign having delivered first gas in 
May. At Ensign we have now also delivered 
production from the second well, however 
due to mechanical issues the initial 
production rate is below our original 
expectations. First gas is expected from 
York and Rhyl in the coming weeks, with 
first gas from Kew scheduled for the fourth 
quarter of 2013. Good progress continues 
to be made on the Statoil-operated Valemon 
project	with	the	detailed	design	having	 
been agreed towards the end of 2012 and 
fabrication having started early in 2013.  
The field is on track to produce first gas  
in the fourth quarter of 2014. 
In August we announced that the £1.4 billion 
Cygnus	project,	in	which	we	own	a	48.75%	
interest, had been sanctioned. Key contracts 
have now been placed and the fabrication 
of	the	jacket	and	platform	deck	started	
ahead of schedule. The development will 
create	around	4,000	jobs,	mostly	in	the	 
UK and bring 53mmboe of our reserves 
into production from late 2015, providing 
enough gas at peak production to supply 
1.5 million homes.
In Trinidad and Tobago, we made further 
progress	on	the	Block	22	project	with	the	
award of front end engineering design 
contracts for upstream and subsea 
facilities as well as the contracting of a rig 
to drill two appraisal wells to prove up our 
resource base. We continue to explore 
development and partnership options  
for gas export.
Our appraisal drilling at Rhyl North towards 
the end of 2012 was successful, and led  
to our 2P reserves being revised upwards 
by 7mmboe to 14mmboe. In early 2013, 
exploration drilling at Whitehaven confirmed 
that the Rhyl reservoir extends further than 
originally anticipated, potentially leading to 
Total production of gas and liquids 
increased	by	18%	to	56.7mmboe	(2011:	
48.2mmboe). Total gas production volumes 
increased by 13% to 2,441 million therms 
(mmth)	(2011:	2,160mmth)	and	total	liquids	
volumes increased by 30% to 16.3mmboe 
(2011:	12.5mmboe),	reflecting	the	benefit	of	
recent acquisitions. We now have less 
reliance on production from Morecambe, 
which in 2012 contributed 23% of total 
production	(2011:	29%)	primarily	due	to	
increases from the rest of the portfolio. 
Performance from South Morecambe 
improved in the second half of the year, 
after we took action to stabilise the quality 
of gas delivered to the grid during the 
field’s maintenance shut-down in the 
summer. Gas production volumes from 
Norway more than trebled to 557mmth 
(2011:	164mmth)	while	liquids	volumes	
increased	to	8.9mmboe	(2011:	4.7mmboe),	
reflecting acquisitions during the year. 
In 2013 we will benefit from a full year of 
production from the acquisitions made  28 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Operating Review
t he Uk and n orway will  
remain an important part of  
our investment and activity
additional reserve upgrades. Rhyl and 
Whitehaven will both utilise our existing 
Morecambe infrastructure. Appraisal drilling 
at the non-operated Maria North well, in 
which we own a 20% interest, showed 
potential gross recoverable reserves of the 
Maria field towards the upper end of the 
70-150mmboe range published following 
the discovery in 2010. Accordingly we have 
revised our 2P reserves up by 10mmboe  
to 25mmboe. Appraisal drilling at Bligh  
and exploration drilling at Cooper both 
encountered hydrocarbons, but tight 
reservoirs meant that commercial flow rates 
were not achieved. We also experienced 
non-operated exploration failures in 
Trinidad and Tobago. However in early 
2013 drilling at the Rodriguez prospect in 
Norway was successful, confirming the 
presence of gas condensate.
In June, we extended our Memorandum  
of Understanding (MoU) with Statoil to 
collaborate on gas-focused exploration 
opportunities in Norway and the UK. In 
October, the UKCS 27th Round awarded 
Centrica six licenses covering 13 blocks 
and part-blocks. Three of the blocks will  
be Centrica-operated, two of which are in 
the West of Shetland, a new area for the 
Company. Early in 2013 we were awarded 
nine blocks in the latest round of licences 
announced by Norway’s Energy Ministry. 
We will be the operator of three of these 
blocks, which are close to some of our 
existing assets. Our exploration record 
over the last three years has been good, 
with a success rate of 40% and a net 
finding cost of £3.5 per barrel of oil 
equivalent (boe). 
original investment in the nuclear fleet. In 
addition, plant life extensions to the Hinkley 
Point B and Hunterston B nuclear power 
stations were announced in December, 
extending the life of these stations by 
seven years from 2016 to 2023. The 
expectation for nuclear plant life extensions 
for the AGR fleet in the UK is now for seven 
years on average, compared to the five 
years previously assumed, and this will 
deliver additional long-term value. 
The market environment remains challenging 
for gas-fired plant with continued low 
market clean spark spreads. Reliability 
remained	high	at	97%	(2011:	98%),	however	
generation volumes fell by 40% to 9.0TWh 
(2011:	15.0TWh),	with	an	average	load	
factor	of	26%	(2011:	35%).	The	market	
conditions led to the mothballing of our 
325MW King’s Lynn power plant at the 
beginning of the year and we have now 
also withdrawn our 229MW Roosecote 
power station from service. Our plants at 
Barry and Brigg continue to operate in the 
STOR market, with contracts in place until 
the end of the first quarter of 2013 while our 
Peterborough plant has a contract which 
will commence in April 2013. Against this 
difficult market environment, we have been 
successful in minimising our costs and 
running the plants as efficiently as possible, 
with high levels of availability enabling running 
at peak times. In February 2013, we 
sanctioned a turbine blade upgrade at our 
1.2GW South Humber power station, which 
will improve the efficiency of the plant.
Availability in our wind assets was 88% 
(2011:	92%),	reflecting	an	outage	at	Inner	
Dowsing in the first quarter, with generated 
volumes down 11% to 533 gigawatt hours 
Cent RiCa eneR gy COntin Ued
hO w d Id w E m EASu RE u P?  
CEn TRICA En ERGy PERf ORm An CE 
m EASu RES CAn BE f Ound O n PAGE 148
Higher gas and oil volumes and 
achieved prices with reduced 
unit costs 
Upstream gas and oil profitability increased 
by	20%	to	£919	million	(2011:	£769	million),	
reflecting higher production volumes and 
higher achieved prices. The average 
achieved gas sales price increased 
by 6% to 54.7 pence per therm (p/th) 
(2011:	51.6p/th)	while	the	average	achieved	
oil and condensate price increased by 10% 
to	£62.8	per	boe	(2011:	£57.2/boe).	On	a	 
per unit of production basis, depletion, 
depreciation and amortisation (DDA) costs 
and lifting costs both decreased slightly,  
to	£9.8/boe	(2011:	£10.1/boe)	and	£9.7/boe	
(2011:	£9.9/boe)	respectively,	with	recent	
acquisitions incurring lower unit lifting costs. 
Overall production and overhead costs 
increased by 22% to £1,374 million 
(2011:	£1,127	million)	due	to	the	impact	of	
the North Sea acquisitions, new gas and 
oil fields coming into production, the 
expensing of a £73 million cost relating to 
the failure of a third development well at 
Ensign and inflationary cost increases. 
In addition we incurred exploration  
and appraisal costs of £139 million 
(2011:	£97	million),	reflecting	a	lower	 
level of drilling success. 
Continued strong performance 
from nuclear; challenging market 
conditions for CCGTs 
The nuclear fleet recorded strong 
performance during the year, with our 20% 
share of output increasing by 8% to 12.0 
terawatt	hours	(TWh)	(2011:	11.2TWh).	This	
reflects continued investment in the fleet, 
with no large unplanned outages during 
the year, underlining the quality of our  29 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Operating Review
(GWh)	(2011:	596GWh).	The	load	factor	
was	32%	(2011:	36%).	
Power profitability increased by 22% to 
£311	million	(2011:	£254	million).	Nuclear	
profitability increased, benefiting from a 
higher achieved average price of £49.6/
MWh	(2011:	£48.5/MWh),	reflecting	some	
benefit from forward hedging, as well as  
the strong operational performance. Wind 
profitability also increased, with the sale of 
50% of our Round 3 wind farm interest to 
Dong, in line with our established business 
model to partner on offshore wind, resulting 
in a net profit of £32 million after taking into 
account a charge relating to the refusal of 
consent	at	our	Docking	Shoal	project.	Our	
CCGT fleet made a small loss in 2012, the 
last year of free carbon allowances, 
reflecting the weak market conditions.
Investing for value in power
In	offshore	wind,	our	270MW	Lincs	project	
has now generated first power and is 
expected to be fully operational in the 
second half of 2013. We have invested 
over £3 million in a new operations base  
at Grimsby docks to serve Lincs and other 
potential Centrica Energy wind farm 
developments, a substantial investment  
in the local area.
We continue to progress towards a final 
investment decision on the Race Bank 
project,	which	is	consented	for	580MW.	
We are willing to commit £200 million for 
the	project,	and	are	in	discussion	with	 
a financial partner and the Government 
concerning the economic framework. 
During	2012	we	also	established	a	joint	
venture with Dong Energy to co-develop 
the Round 3 Irish Sea wind farm zone. 
Formal consultation and a programme of 
stakeholder engagement was undertaken 
throughout the year. A final investment 
decision	is	expected	on	the	first	project	 
in	2016,	subject	to	returns	being	
suitably attractive.
In February 2013 we announced that  
we would not be exercising our option to 
participate in UK nuclear new build, taking 
into account the lengthening time frame  
for	a	return	on	capital	invested	in	a	project	
of this scale. The decision follows detailed 
appraisal	of	the	project,	with	pre-
development expenditure approaching  
the agreed £1 billion cap; accordingly 
Centrica’s	share	of	project	costs	have	
been written off, with the Group recording 
a total impairment of £231 million.
We have also decided not to proceed with 
planning applications to develop dedicated 
biomass power stations at Roosecote  
and Brigg, with recent clarification on the 
regulatory framework indicating a preference 
for co-firing and coal conversion. As the 
market becomes increasingly dependent 
on fixed price support mechanisms, we 
will leverage our competencies, investing 
only where we see value. 
Integrate our natural gas business, 
linked to our core markets
The gas market is becoming increasingly 
global. We have made progress in 
diversifying our sources of gas, including 
agreements to import pipeline gas from 
Norway and LNG from Qatar through our 
regasification capacity at the Isle of Grain. 
We are looking to secure gas increasingly 
from a wider range of sources, expanding 
the scope of our activities where 
appropriate. Our aim is to connect sources 
of energy to our customers, building an 
integrated international business focused 
on the Atlantic basin.
The UK and Norway will remain an 
important part of our investment and 
activity, as we look to maintain an 
appropriate energy hedge. We have a 
number	of	large	scale	projects	ongoing,	
including Cygnus and Valemon, and we 
retain a number of attractive potential 
development opportunities, particularly  
in Norway, including at Butch where 
appraisal drilling is planned in late 2013. 
Decisions are targeted during 2013 on 
further infill drilling opportunities in the  
East Irish Sea and North Sea. However, 
with UK North Sea developments 
becoming smaller in scale and relatively 
more expensive, we will increasingly look 
to diversify our production portfolio, linked 
to our core markets. This is likely to include 
further investment in North America, 
possibly in shale gas, and there is also the 
potential for gas exports later in the decade. 
We will invest where we see value across 
our international portfolio, delivering annual 
production in the range 75mmboe to 
100mmboe. In midstream, we have 
significant capabilities and presence in 
European and North American gas 
markets where we have important strategic 
participation in pipeline capacity, 
regasification capacity and gas storage. 
We will also look to develop our asset-
based midstream trading and optimisation 
business over time, with an emerging 
presence in LNG. However we will invest 
only where we see value, with rewards 
commensurate with the scale of 
investment and associated risks.  30 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Operating Review
i am pleased to report 
that Centrica Storage 
achieved higher profits 
from our Rough gas 
storage facility in 2012 
than in 2011. 
Early in 2012 we benefited from the 
widening spreads between summer and 
winter gas prices which are a key driver 
of storage revenue. However, at this level 
the prices still remain below that needed 
to invest in new storage and that’s  
why	our	Baird	and	Caythorpe	projects	
have remained under review with no 
major	physical	works	undertaken	 
during the year.
We do, however, remain convinced that 
the UK will require more gas storage 
capacity in the future and therefore have 
continued to engage with various 
stakeholders, including the UK 
Government, on ways to support the 
investment needed. The Government’s 
Energy Bill and Gas Generation Strategy 
have confirmed a clear and continuing role 
for gas in the UK’s medium to long-term 
energy mix and we believe, reinforces the 
need for increased levels of seasonal gas 
storage in the UK. We are particularly 
encouraged by the commitment of the 
Department of Energy & Climate Change 
(DECC) to publish a review of the need for 
storage support in the first half of 2013.
In the meantime we have continued to 
focus on strengthening the existing 
business by concentrating on our 
underlying business performance, 
processes and our overall efficiency.
At Centrica Storage ‘Do Everything 
Safely’ is one of our core priorities and  
I am encouraged that 2012 has been 
another strong year in terms of our 
safety record. I am particularly pleased 
that in September we passed three 
years without a single lost time incident 
right across the business. This was 
particularly challenging in 2012 as 
significant work was undertaken at  
our Easington Terminal, to build the 
reception and processing facilities for 
gas coming from Centrica Energy’s York 
offshore field.
The first cold spell of the 2012 winter, in 
early December, saw our Rough storage 
facility once again withdrawing at full 
rates, demonstrating our key role within 
the Centrica Group’s integrated energy 
business and also the vital contribution 
we make to the security of energy 
supplies for the UK.
For the year ended 31 December 2012 2011
Average SBU price (pence) 31.0 30.0
Gross revenue (£m) 202 184
Adjusted	operating	profit
‡
 (£m) 89 75
Adjusted operating profit
‡
£m
Cent RiCa St ORage
Grant Dawson
Chairman, Centrica Storage
“   Cent RiCa StOR age p Lay S a key ROL e 
Within the gROU p’S integ Rated 
ene Rgy BUSineSS and M ake S a vita L 
COnt RiBUtiOn tO the S eCURity O f 
EnEr Gy SUPPLiES fOr th E UK. ”
240
195
168 169
75
89
2008 2007 2012 2011 2010 2009
‡ From continuing operations 31 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Operating Review
Strong performance in a 
challenging market environment 
Centrica Storage performed well in 2012, 
with strong commercial performance 
securing the benefits of higher summer/
winter price differentials seen in the first 
half of the 2012/13 storage year. The Rough 
asset achieved reliability of 92% in the year 
(2011:	96%),	with	performance	in	the	first	
half similar to that experienced in the  
first half of 2011 but with the second half 
impacted by a small number of production 
outages. These outages had limited 
commercial impact and across the year 
asset availability was good when required 
to meet customer demand.
The high level of stock carry-over into 2012 
combined with modest withdrawal in the 
first quarter of the year meant that the Net 
Reservoir Volume (NRV) was at relatively 
high levels again going into the 2012 
injection	season.	A	strong	injection	season	
over the summer was followed by the final 
quarter of 2012 experiencing withdrawals 
more in line with seasonal normal levels. 
As a result the NRV level carried into 2013 
was above the five year average level but 
below the level at the start of 2012. 
Health and safety remains one of our core 
priorities; this relentless focus has enabled 
the business to continue its strong record 
through 2012, with no lost time incidents 
recorded for more than three years, 
corresponding to over 5 million man hours 
of work without an incident.
Forward seasonal spreads have 
narrowed since the first quarter
The business saw higher summer/winter 
price differentials in the final quarter of 
2011 and the first quarter of 2012 
compared to the first quarter of 2011, 
which resulted in an achieved 2012/13 
storage year Standard Bundled Unit (SBU) 
price	of	33.9	pence	(2011/12:	25.2	pence).	
However, price differentials subsequently 
narrowed, reflecting colder than normal 
weather in the summer months and an 
expectation of LNG availability for the 
winter. Forward spreads remain relatively 
narrow for the 2013/14 storage year, with 
price volatility remaining at subdued levels.
Improved operating profit
Gross revenue increased by 10% in 2012 
to	£202	million	(2011:	£184	million).	This	
reflects the higher summer/winter price 
differentials and benefits from the high 
NRV carried into 2012. SBU revenue was 
4% higher in 2012 with the calendar year 
SBU price increasing to 31.0 pence  
(2011:	30.0	pence).	Operating	profit	
increased	by	19%	to	£89	million	(2011:	£75	
million) benefiting from higher revenue and 
strong cost control, partially offset by 
inflationary pressures and additional 
depreciation resulting from previous 
investment in Rough. From 2013 the 
business will benefit from additional 
revenue streams associated with gas 
processing and condensate sales at the 
newly constructed York processing plant.
Challenging economics for new 
projects
We retain the option to invest in our Baird 
and	Caythorpe	gas	storage	projects.	
However, the continuing relatively low 
levels of summer/winter price differentials 
and reduced price volatility, combined with 
an uncertain longer term outlook, mean 
that market conditions remain challenging 
for these opportunities. With the country 
becoming increasingly dependent on 
imported gas we believe that more 
seasonal storage is required in the UK. 
However	we	will	only	invest	in	new	projects	
if the returns are appropriate for the level of 
risk undertaken. We may require a support 
mechanism to underpin the investment 
and welcomed the announcement by 
DECC in December that it is planning to 
carry out further investigation into possible 
intervention mechanisms to encourage 
new storage investment. We look forward 
to the outcome of this review, with initial 
findings expected in spring of 2013. 
hO w d Id w E m EASu RE u P?  
CEn TRICA STORAGE PERfOR m AnCE 
m EASu RES CAn BE f Ound O n PAGE 148
heaLth and S afety 
ReMain S One Of OUR 
COr E Pri Orit iES; thi S 
ReLent LeSS f OCUS 
ha S enaBLed the 
BUSineSS tO 
COntin Ue it S StRO ng 
ReCORd th ROUgh 
2012, with n O LOSt 
tiMe inCident S 
ReCORded f OR MORe 
th An thr EE yEAr S. 32 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Operating Review
leading prepaid product and flexible 
time-of-use offerings enabled by smart 
technology and we plan to expand this 
product range.
By operating across the entire energy 
value chain, from sourcing to supply,  
we create stability and value for our 
customers. As North America’s 
importance grows with an increasingly 
global gas market, we will continue to 
pursue value-creating opportunities that 
enhance our existing portfolio of natural 
gas production, power generation and 
wholesale and retail energy services.
Our values of being simple, friendly and 
direct remain at the heart of our approach 
to customers as we strive to offer products 
and services that make a difference in 
people’s lives.
Our focus for the year 
ahead is to make 
progress against our 
strategic priorities as  
we position ourselves  
to meet the energy and 
services needs of 
customers now and  
in the future.
We continue to build an integrated North 
American business with leading 
positions in competitive markets and are 
investing for growth across the four lines 
of business. We will also maintain our 
focus on cost reduction and seek 
efficiencies from increased scale across 
our operations, while remaining solidly 
committed to deepening customer 
relationships by delivering innovative 
products and services.
Strong organic growth and acquisitions 
have positioned Direct Energy as one  
of North America’s largest energy and 
energy-related services providers. We will 
continue to focus investment in markets 
that provide an environment conducive  
to retail competition and the consumer 
benefits that come from having a choice  
of providers – particularly in the competitive 
retail markets in Texas and in the US 
North East. 
We see continued progress and opportunity 
for innovation and differentiation through 
smart meter technologies, demand 
response and energy efficiency related 
products and services. Customers are 
responding favourably to our industry-
For the year ended 31 December 2012 2011
Adjusted	operating	profit
‡
 (£m) 331 312
Residential energy and services accounts  
(year end, ’000) 5,856 5,647
Business energy electricity volumes (TWh) 51.4 46.4
Total net proven and probable reserves  
(mmboe) 108 109
Adjusted operating profit
‡
£m
diReCt eneR gy
Chris Weston
Managing Director, Direct Energy
“  We have BU iLt a g OOd pLatf ORM 
f OR gROWth in nOR th aM eRiCa, 
With S t ROng C apa BiLitie S in ene Rgy 
SOURCing and SU ppLy, RiSk 
ManageM ent, eneR gy SeR viCeS  
AnD UPStr EAM GAS AnD POwEr. ”
187
215
153
234
312
331
2008 2007 2012 2011 2010 2009
‡ From continuing operations 33 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Operating Review
Further profit growth in a low gas 
price environment
Direct Energy delivered another strong 
performance in 2012, in a low gas price 
environment. Gross revenue decreased by 
2%	to	£6,015	million	(2011:	£6,117	million)	
but operating profit increased by 6% to 
£331	million	(2011:	£312	million).	There	was	
no material impact resulting from currency 
movements during the year. 
The business has benefited from organic 
customer growth in the US North East  
and the small business customer segment, 
and from the successful integration of 
recent acquisitions. We also continue to 
drive operational efficiencies throughout 
the business, and the move of our North 
American headquarters to Houston, 
combined with overall headcount reductions, 
has delivered significant benefits. We will 
continue to drive efficiencies, with further 
rationalisation of IT resources due to be 
undertaken in 2013. The health and safety 
of our employees and customers continues 
to be one of our core priorities. The LTIFR 
reduced by 45% to 0.11 per 100,000 hours 
worked	(2011:	0.20)	and	we	had	no	
significant process safety events in 2012.
Benefiting from enhanced scale  
in residential energy supply
Direct Energy Residential made good 
progress during the year, with organic 
customer growth in the US North East,  
the successful integration of recent 
acquisitions and strong increased customer 
satisfaction levels across the business. 
Overall customer accounts increased to 
3.5	million	(2011:	3.4	million)	despite	
incurring further customer losses as a 
result of the regulatory environment in 
Ontario. Gross revenue decreased by 2% 
to	£2,357	million	(2011:	£2,416	million),	
while operating profit was broadly flat at 
£156	million	(2011:	£161	million)	reflecting	
the decline in the Ontario business, offset 
by the positive impacts of customer growth 
and acquisitions in the US. We are also 
seeing the benefits from operational 
efficiencies and billing system rationalisation, 
with increased scale in the US North East. 
In the US North East, our business is 
materially larger following the integration  
of Gateway and Vectren Source, both 
acquired in 2011, and the acquisition of  
a further 207 ,000 residential and 38,000 
small business accounts from New York 
based energy retailers Energetix and 
NYSEG Solutions from Iberdrola USA, 
completed in August. The business also 
experienced organic growth in 2012 due  
to strong sales performance, despite the 
expected roll-off of low margin aggregation 
customers acquired as part of the Vectren 
Source acquisition. We now have 1.4 million 
customers in the region, up from 1.1 million 
at the end of 2011.
Our Texas residential business is also 
benefiting from increased scale, following 
the First Choice Power acquisition in 2011. 
Our prepaid ‘Power to Go’ product 
continues to attract customers, as well as 
being viewed positively by regulators, who 
welcome the expansion of choice for all 
customer groups. In October, we launched 
a 100% renewable tariff, providing 
environmentally conscious customers  
with wind power from Texas. 
We delivered good sales performance in 
the US during the year, underpinned by a 
continued focus on channel efficiency, 
while our consolidated billing platform has 
helped reduce costs and bad debt. Churn 
reduction continues to remain a focus both 
in Texas and the US North East. 
We no longer view our residential energy 
supply business in Ontario as core, 
following the implementation of the Energy 
Consumer Protection Act (ECPA), which 
makes it difficult to sell to new customers 
or retain existing ones. We continue to 
actively manage the decline of our customer 
base and have more than halved operating 
costs since 2010 through aggressive cost 
management. In total we lost 95,000 
customer accounts in Ontario during 2012 
and	now	have	just	over	200,000	customers	
in the region, around half the amount we 
had at the end of 2010. In 2012, Ontario 
contributed less than 20% of our residential 
energy operating profit and this is expected 
to fall to around 5% in 2013. In Alberta, 
profitability rose, with increases in regulated 
rates leading to higher churn levels in the 
We expe Ct OUR 
dOWnSt ReaM 
BUSineSS tO B eCOMe 
a MORe Mate RiaL 
paRt O f the gROU p 
OveR the next thR ee 
tO fiv E yEAr S.
We will continue to look for 
opportunities to grow our business 
across North America by focusing on 
growing organically and through our 
successful bolt-on acquisition strategy, 
delivering scale and synergies. 34 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Operating Review
low margin regulated business and  
growth in the higher margin competitive 
customer base.
Focus on small businesses 
leading to volume growth in 
business energy supply
Direct Energy Business again delivered 
strong growth in the year, in a highly 
competitive market. Electricity volumes 
rose	11%	to	51.4TWh	(2011:	46.4TWh),	
while gas volumes increased by 11% to 
793mmth	(2011:	714mmth).	Higher	volumes	
in the small commercial business sector 
are driving much of the growth, and profit 
in this sector nearly doubled in 2012, 
reflecting strong sales and scale benefits 
resulting from recent acquisitions. The 
larger commercial segment is increasingly 
competitive, however our retention rates 
remain high in this sector. 
Gross revenue in business energy supply 
decreased	by	2%	to	£2,690	million	(2011:	
£2,748 million), with the impact of lower 
commodity prices more than offsetting 
volume growth. Operating profit increased 
to	£129	million	(2011:	£110	million)	while	
operating	margin	increased	to	4.8%	(2011:	
4.0%), reflecting the positive impact of 
operational efficiencies and a higher 
proportion of small business customers.
Strengthening the services 
platform
Direct Energy Services is performing well, 
gaining market share in a challenging 
economic environment, with many of our 
competitors experiencing losses or credit 
downgrades. Our nationwide on-demand 
franchise has provided scale advantages, 
while the acquisition of Home Warranty  
of America (HWA), completed in March, 
provides the necessary licences to offer 
protection plan products across the  
United States. The number of contract 
relationships increased by 5% during 2012, 
mainly reflecting the HWA acquisition. 
Our Canadian business was impacted  
by warmer than normal weather and 
industrial action by a number of our 
unionised technicians in the first half of  
the year. The labour issues have now  
been resolved, resulting in a significant 
improvement to our cost base and more 
flexible working arrangements, improving 
our service to customers. 
Continued weak economic conditions,  
low consumer confidence and a slow 
housing market have impacted underlying 
growth in the US services business, 
leading to less lead generation and 
reduced demand for home services 
products. However we continue to focus 
on delivering high levels of customer 
satisfaction and our overall Net Promoter 
Score	increased	to	+39	(2011:	+28).
Gross revenue increased by 2% to £532 
million	(2011:	£520	million)	and	operating	
profit	increased	to	£33	million	(2011:	£28	
million), with operational efficiencies and 
cost control driving much of this growth.
Solid upstream and wholesale 
performance in a low price 
environment
Direct Energy Upstream continues to  
face a low wholesale price environment, 
although the Henry Hub natural gas price 
recovered slightly during the second half  
of the year from the record low levels seen 
diReCt eneR gy COntin Ued
Our values of being simple,  
friendly and direct remain at  
the heart of our approach
hO w d Id w E m EASu RE u P?  
d IRECT En ERGy PERfOR m AnCE m EASu RES 
CAn BE f Ound O n PAGE 149 35 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Operating Review
in the first half. Alberta gas production 
volumes	fell	by	3%	to	549mmth	(2011:	
567mmth), with the achieved gas price 
falling	to	C$3.8/MCF	(2011:	C$4.6/MCF).	
The price of liquids remains relatively  
high however, and the acquisition of  
the Carrot Creek assets, completed  
in January, meant that oil and liquids 
production volumes nearly doubled to 
1.1mmboe	(2011:	0.7mmboe).	We	added	
10mmboe of reserves in North America 
over the year meaning that after taking 
account of production, 2P reserves 
remained broadly flat at 108mmboe  
(2011:	109mmboe).
Texas power generation volumes increased 
by	21%	to	6,336GWh	(2011:	5,247GWh),	
with good asset availability and optimisation 
performance. Texas experienced more 
normal weather conditions during the 
summer months, meaning that spikes  
in power prices were less extreme than  
in the exceptional conditions in 2011.
Overall, upstream and wholesale gross 
revenue	was	£436	million	(2011:	£433	
million) while operating profit was flat at 
£13	million	(2011:	£13	million).
Well placed to further grow and 
develop our North American 
business
We have built a good platform for growth 
in North America, with strong capabilities 
in energy sourcing and supply, risk 
management, energy services and 
upstream gas and power. In 2013, we 
should continue to benefit from recent 
residential acquisitions, with integration 
now mostly complete, while we have 
created a more efficient operating base  
in both energy and services. Upstream, 
natural gas prices continue to be 
constrained by the impact of shale but 
production expansion opportunities are 
available and we will pursue them if value 
can be created. 
We continue to look for opportunities to 
grow our business across North America. 
Downstream, we will continue to focus on 
growing organically, through churn 
reduction and differentiation. We will also 
continue with our successful bolt-on 
acquisition strategy, delivering scale and 
synergies, and will consider larger 
opportunities where appropriate. Over the 
next three to five years we are targeting a 
doubling in profitability of our North America 
downstream business through organic 
growth and acquisition, with Direct Energy 
downstream becoming a more material 
part of the Group. We will also look for 
opportunities upstream, with the potential 
for exports over time. In each case, we will 
only invest where we see value and a good 
fit with our Group-wide capabilities.
the hea Lth and 
Safety O f OUR 
eMpLOyeeS and 
CUSt OMeRS 
COntin UeS tO  
Be One Of OUR  
CORe pRiORitie S 36 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Group Financial Review
group revenue from 
continuing operations was 
up 5% to £23.9 billion 
(2011: £22.8 billion). 
Revenue increased in British Gas due to 
higher gas consumption as a result of 
colder weather and higher retail gas and 
electricity prices. Revenue decreased in 
Centrica Energy, with the impact of lower 
gas-fired power generation volumes and 
reduced midstream activity following the 
closure of our German wholesale business 
in 2011, more than offsetting the impact of 
higher gas and liquid volumes. Revenue in 
gROUp finan CiaL Revie W
2012 2011
Notes
Business
 performance
£m
Exceptional
 items and
certain re-
measurements
£m
Statutory 
result
£m
Business
 performance
£m
Exceptional
 items and
 certain re-
measurements
£m
Statutory 
result
£m
Adjusted operating profit:
British Gas 1,093 1,005
Centrica Energy 1,230 1,023
Centrica Storage 89 75
Direct Energy 331 312
Total adjusted operating profit 4b 2,743 2,415
Depreciation of fair value uplifts from Strategic 
Investments, before tax 11 (96) (105)
Interest	and	taxation	on	joint	ventures	and	associates 4b (85) (102)
Group operating profit 4b,7 2,562 63 2,625 2,208 (794) 1,414
Net interest expense 8 (183) – (183) (146) – (146)
Taxation 7,9 (1,029) (140) (1,169) (810) (16) (826)
Profit from continuing operations after taxation 1,350 (77) 1,273 1,252 (810) 442
Discontinued operations – – – 13 (34) (21)
Profit for the year 1,350 (77) 1,273 1,265 (844) 421
Depreciation of fair value uplifts from Strategic 
Investments, after taxation 11a 56 68
Adjusted earnings 1,406 1,333
Nick Luff
Group Finance Director
“  thE Gr OUP inv ESt ED £2.7 BiLLiOn  
Of CAPitAL in 2012, MAt Eri ALLy 
inCReaSing the SC aLe and 
geOgRaphi C diveRSity O f  
th E BUSinESS. ”
Direct Energy was broadly flat, reflecting 
higher average customer numbers and 
increased business energy consumption, 
offset by lower wholesale energy prices. 
Throughout the Business Review, 
reference is made to a number of different 
profit measures, which are shown in the 
table	below: 37 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Group Financial Review
Total	adjusted	operating	profit	was	up	14%	
to	£2,743	million	(2011:	£2,415	million).	In	
British Gas, profitability increased, with  
the impact of higher gas consumption and 
unit prices more than offsetting increased 
wholesale commodity, transportation and 
environmental costs in residential energy 
supply, and cost efficiency measures driving 
growth in residential services. In Centrica 
Energy, higher gas and liquids production 
resulting from acquisitions and higher 
achieved prices led to increased profitability 
in the gas segment, while higher nuclear 
power generation more than offset the 
impact of reduced gas-fired power 
generation volumes in the power segment. 
In Centrica Storage, improved seasonal 
price differentials during the final quarter  
of 2011 and the first quarter of 2012 led  
to higher profitability. In Direct Energy, 
profitability increased, with growth in 
services and business energy supply more 
than offsetting slightly lower profitability in 
residential energy supply, driven by less 
favourable market conditions in Ontario 
partially offset by the impact of 
recent acquisitions. 
Net interest expense was £183 million 
(2011:	£146	million),	reflecting	£1,196	million	
net issuance of debt during the year. The 
tax	on	adjusted	profit	from	continuing	
operations	was	£1,029	million	(2011:	£810	
million), reflecting a higher level of operating 
profit and an increased mix of more heavily 
taxed upstream operating profit. After 
adjusting	for	the	tax	impact	of	depreciation	
on the Venture fair value uplift and our 
share	of	taxation	on	joint	ventures	and	
associates,	the	adjusted	tax	charge	from	
continuing operations was £1,110 million 
(2011:	£891	million)	and	the	resultant	
adjusted	effective	tax	rate	for	the	Group	
was	44%	(2011:	40%).	An	effective	tax	rate	
calculation, split UK and non-UK, is shown 
in the table below.
Reflecting all of the above, profit from 
continuing operations after taxation was up 
8%	to	£1,350	million	(2011:	£1,252	million)	
and	after	adjusting	for	fair	value	uplifts,	
adjusted	earnings	increased	by	5%	to	
£1,406	million	(2011:	£1,333	million).	
Adjusted	basic	earnings	per	share	(EPS)	
increased	to	27.1	pence	(2011:	25.8	pence).
The statutory profit for the year was  
£1,273	million	(2011:	£421	million).	The	
reconciling items between profit from 
business performance and the statutory 
profit are related to exceptional items, 
certain re-measurements and discontinued 
operations. The increase compared with 
2011 was principally due to a net gain on 
certain re-measurements of £404 million 
(2011:	net	loss	of	£322	million).	The	Group	
reported a statutory basic EPS of 
24.6 pence	(2011:	8.2	pence).
In addition to the interim dividend of  
4.62 pence per share, we propose a final 
dividend of 11.78 pence, giving a total 
ordinary dividend of 16.4 pence for the 
year	(2011:	15.4	pence),	an	increase	of 6%.	
Group operating cash flow from continuing 
operations before movements in working 
capital	was	higher	at	£3,542	million	(2011:	
£3,065 million), reflecting the contribution 
from Centrica Energy acquisitions. After 
working	capital	adjustments,	tax,	
operational interest, and cash flows 
associated with exceptional charges and 
discontinued operations, this stood at 
£2,820	million	(2011:	£2,337	million).
The net cash outflow from investing activities 
was	£2,558	million	(2011:	£1,400	million),	
as described in the business combinations 
and capital expenditure section on page 38. 
The increased outflow reflects the acquisitions 
of North Sea gas and oil assets. 
The net cash inflow from financing 
activities	was	£190	million	(2011:	outflow	 
of £907 million). The inflow reflects the net 
issuance of borrowings during the year 
exceeding dividends paid.
Reflecting all of the above, the Group’s  
net debt at 31 December 2012 was  
£4,047	million	(2011:	£3,292	million).	To	
align with management reporting, net  
debt has been restated to include  
mark-to-market values on derivative 
financial instruments used to hedge 
offsetting changes in borrowings. 
During the year net assets increased  
to	£5,927	million	(31	December	2011:	
£5,600 million), reflecting the impact of 
statutory profit for the year exceeding 
dividends paid.
Exceptional items
Exceptional charges from continuing 
operations of £534 million were included 
within Group operating profit during the 
year	(2011:	£331	million).	
UK
£m
Non-UK
£m
2012
Total 
£m
UK
£m
Non-UK
£m
2011
Total
£m
Adjusted	operating	profit 2,079 664 2,743 2,042 373 2,415
Share	of	joint	ventures	/	associates	interest (44) – (44) (58) – (58)
Net interest expense (79) (104) (183) (71) (75) (146)
Adjusted profit from continuing operations before taxation 1,956 560 2,516 1,913 298 2,211
Tax	on	adjusted	profit	from	continuing	operations 692 337 1,029 682 128 810
Tax impact of depreciation on Venture fair value uplift 40 – 40 37 – 37
Share	of	taxation	on	joint	ventures	and	associates 41 – 41 44 – 44
Adjusted tax charge from continuing operations 773 337 1,110 763 128 891
Adjusted effective tax rate 40% 60% 44% 40% 43% 40% 38 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Group Financial Review
Following a decrease in North American 
power prices, a charge of £89 million has 
been made to reflect the fair value of the 
obligation to purchase power above its net 
realisable value through onerous wind farm 
power purchase agreements.
On 4 February 2013, Centrica announced 
its decision not to proceed with nuclear 
new build investment. Accordingly, the 
Group has recorded an impairment of 
£231 million. This amount includes the 
carrying value of its investment in NNB 
Holding Company Limited as well as value 
attributed to nuclear new build in the 
British Energy acquisition.
An exceptional restructuring charge of 
£214 million was recorded, mainly relating 
to staff reductions following the Group-
wide cost reduction programme 
announced in 2012. 
Taxation on the total of these charges 
generated	a	credit	of	£93	million	(2011:	 
£69 million). On 3 July 2012, the UK 
government substantively enacted the 
restriction on the rate of tax relief on oil and 
gas decommissioning costs from the current 
62% to 50%. An exceptional tax charge  
of £40 million has been recognised from 
revaluing the related deferred 
tax provisions.
Certain re-measurements
In our business we enter into a portfolio  
of forward energy contracts which include 
buying substantial quantities of commodity 
to meet the future needs of our customers. 
Primarily because these contracts include 
terms that permit net settlement, the rules 
within IAS39 require the contracts to be fair 
valued. In addition, the Group also enters 
into a range of commodity contracts 
designed to secure the value of its underlying 
production, generation, storage and 
transportation assets consistent with an 
integrated energy business in the UK and 
North America. Fair value movements on 
these commodity derivative contracts do 
not reflect the underlying performance of 
the business because the contracts are 
Events after the balance 
sheet date
On 4 February 2013, Centrica announced 
its decision not to proceed with nuclear 
new build investment. Accordingly, the 
Group has recorded an impairment of 
£231 million. The Group also announced 
on 4 February 2013 its intention to launch a 
£500 million share repurchase programme 
to return surplus capital to shareholders, 
which will be conducted over 12 months.
Further details on events after the balance 
sheet are described in note 36.
Risks and capital management
The Group’s risk management processes 
are largely unchanged from 31 December 
2011. Details of how the Group has 
managed financial risks such as liquidity 
and credit risk are set out in note 25.
Details on the Group’s capital 
management processes are provided 
under sources of finance in note 12. 
Accounting policies
UK listed companies are required to 
comply with the European regulation to 
report consolidated financial statements  
in conformity with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by 
the European Union. The Group’s specific 
accounting measures, including changes 
of accounting presentation and selected 
key sources of estimation uncertainty,  
are explained in notes 1, 2 and 3. 
Nick Luff
Group Finance Director
27 February 2013
gROUp finan CiaL Revie W COntin Ued
economically related to our upstream 
assets or downstream demand in our 
chosen markets, which are not typically  
fair valued. Therefore, these certain 
re-measurements are reported separately 
and are subsequently reflected in business 
performance when the underlying 
transaction or asset impacts profit or loss. 
The operating profit in the statutory results 
includes	net	gains	of	£597	million	(2011:	
losses of £463 million) relating to these 
re-measurements, of which there are a 
number of elements. The profits arising 
from the physical purchase and sale of 
commodities during the year, which reflect 
the prices in the underlying contracts, are 
not impacted by these re-measurements. 
See note 2 for further details.
Business combinations and 
capital expenditure
On 30 April 2012, the Group completed 
the acquisitions of certain oil and gas 
production and development assets from 
Statoil and ConocoPhillips for a combined 
total cash consideration of £911 million. In 
addition, total tax liabilities of £169 million 
were assumed on completion of the 
acquisitions. During the year the Group 
also completed the acquisition of a 
portfolio of producing oil and gas assets 
from Total for total cash consideration of 
£133 million. These three acquisitions are 
included within the Centrica Energy 
gas segment. 
On 22 August 2012, the Group acquired 
100% of the shares of New York based 
energy retailers Energetix Inc. and NYSEG 
Solutions Inc. for total cash consideration 
of $121 million (£77 million) including 
$5 million (£3 million) of deferred 
consideration. Goodwill of $43 million  
(£27 million) arose on the acquisition. The 
acquisition is included in the Direct Energy 
residential energy supply and business 
energy supply segments.
Further details on capital expenditure and 
business combinations are included in 
notes 4(e) and 30 respectively. 
MORe inf ORMati On
Risk management and internal 
controls on page 58 39 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Corporate Responsibility Review
CORpORate R eSpOnSiBiLity R evie W 
Corporate Responsibility 
in Centrica is overseen  
by a Committee of the 
Board. this is our  
sixth report.
A continuing concern for all companies 
is the fact that public trust in business, 
especially in the UK, remains low. We 
believe strongly that a company’s 
approach to corporate responsibility 
(CR) – being mindful of its long-term 
impact on the societies and 
environments in which it operates – has 
an important role to play in rebuilding 
public confidence. 
Centrica’s strong business performance 
in 2012 had a direct impact on its 
broader contribution to society.  
Through	our	dividend	we	were	a	major	
contributor towards retirement savings 
and through our investments of  
£2.7 billion we helped secure affordable 
energy	supplies	and	create	jobs.	Our	
Cygnus gas field, for example, will create 
around	4,000	jobs	during	the	development	
phase, whilst our Lincs offshore wind farm 
will supply low carbon electricity to some 
200,000 homes. We continued to take a 
lead in helping households save energy 
and in offering energy choices that are 
simple, fair and transparent and during the 
year we spent more than any other supplier 
on helping those who are more vulnerable. 
Centrica’s corporate responsibility ambition 
is to be the most trusted energy company. 
In	2012,	we	focused	on:
•	 treating	customers	with	fairness;	
•	 securing	affordable	energy	supplies;	and
•	 reducing	carbon	emissions.	
In this review, we summarise our approach 
to corporate responsibility including 
governance, processes and material 
issues. Since corporate responsibility is an 
integral part of our decision-making, more 
detail about the way in which our individual 
businesses have contributed to the 
societies and environments in which they 
operate, can be found in the Operating 
Review on pages 22 to 35.
External assurance and 
performance indicators 
We want our stakeholders to be 
confident that our metrics accurately 
reflect our performance. We therefore 
asked Deloitte LLP to review the most 
important key performance indicators 
that have a material impact on our 
business and to provide limited 
assurance, using the International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements 
(ISAE) 3000. Key performance measures 
are included in this review, with a full 
table available on pages 150 and 151.
Deloitte’s full assurance statement and 
the Basis of Reporting are available in 
our online Annual Report at  
centrica.com/report2012/assurance.
What it means to us
integ Rated eneR gy
how we achieve it
Other significant aspects of our 
businesses and CR activities which 
include management of the supply chain, 
environmental management  
and community engagement and 
investment can be found online at  
centrica.com/responsibility
Mary Francis CBE
Chairman of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee
“  OUR BUSineSS inv OLve S US in a W ide 
Range O f SOC iaL, envi ROnMentaL 
AnD Ethi CAL iSSUES. ” 40 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Corporate Responsibility Review
CORpORate R eSpOnSiBiLity R evie W COntin Ued
Governance, risk and stakeholder 
engagement 
Centrica’s business principles (see page 8) 
provide the basis for consistent decision-
making across the Group. They set out the 
operating behaviours we require based on 
trust, integrity and openness.
To make sure we apply our values 
consistently and reconcile conflicting 
priorities responsibly, we have strong 
governance and internal control systems. 
Effective governance also helps ensure 
corporate responsibility is integral to our 
business activities.
The role and membership of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee is set out on 
page 57 together with the key issues 
reviewed by the Committee during 2012.
Assessing material risks and 
opportunities 
Our business involves us in a wide range  
of social, environmental and ethical issues. 
The individual business units are 
responsible for identifying material issues 
of concern to their stakeholders and 
assessing the potential impact of their 
operations on society and the 
environment. The Executive Committee 
and the corporate responsibility teams  
in each business contribute to these 
assessments, working closely with  
our business risk teams. 
Stakeholder engagement 
Engaging openly with stakeholders 
enables us to understand and respond to 
issues that concern people. During 2012 
we kept in regular contact with stakeholder 
groups, including governments, regulators, 
investors, business partners, local 
communities and non-governmental 
organisations, to maintain a comprehensive 
understanding of their views about our 
business and its wider impacts.
The Corporate Responsibility Advisory 
Group set up in 2011 continues to provide 
valuable external feedback and guidance. 
Its members are drawn from our key 
stakeholder groups. The CR Advisory 
Group met twice in 2012 and advised on 
several issues including the environmental 
and social impacts of our approach to 
procurement, vulnerable customers and 
Treating customers with fairness
We continue to focus on building trust  
with our customers, government and  
other stakeholders. We need to be trusted 
by our customers for them to continue  
to choose us as their supplier and by 
governments and regulators for our views 
to carry weight. 
In 2012, aware that trust among the UK 
public in the energy sector was low, we 
continued to act to restore faith in our 
business. We maintained our efforts to 
make energy buying simpler and easier to 
understand for all our customers through 
simplifying bills and tariff structures, 
moving to single tier pricing and providing 
special support for our more vulnerable 
customers. We also engaged fully with 
Ofgem, the UK regulator, notably in its 
Retail Market Review. We will build on 
these activities in 2013. 
Affordability
Household budgets remain under pressure 
and rising energy bills have contributed to 
this. We have worked hard to help 
households save energy and to reduce our 
operating costs, both of which feed through 
to bill levels. A slight fall in wholesale 
electricity prices allowed us to decrease 
prices by 5% in January 2012. However, 
wholesale gas prices are now 13% higher 
than in winter 2011/12 while costs for 
upgrading the UK’s grid and meeting 
carbon reduction targets have increased  
by around £50 per customer. As a result  
we had to increase our prices for domestic 
gas and electricity in November by an 
average of 6%.
Customer satisfaction
We have made significant improvements in 
standards of service in recent years. In the 
UK, call answering and handling times 
have improved, supported by initiatives 
such as the British Gas ‘Look Who’s 
Calling’ training programme which teaches 
employees to better understand and 
respond to customers’ needs. We track 
customer satisfaction by using Net 
Promoter Scores (NPS), which measure a 
customer’s willingness to recommend us. 
The British Gas NPS increased in 2012 
with an annual average score of +30 
compared with +26 in 2011. Direct Energy 
We continued our dialogue with socially 
responsible investment organisations 
and covered corporate responsibility 
issues at mainstream shareholder 
presentations. We participate in 
selected indices such as FTSE4Good 
and	the	Carbon	Disclosure	Project	
(CDP) demonstrating transparency 
and enabling us to benchmark our 
performance. In 2012 we were again 
included in the CDP Leadership 
‘Global 500’ Index and were the top 
scoring UK utility company. 
We aRe 
deMOnSt Rating 
t RanSpa RenCy By 
paRtiCipating in 
ft SE4GOOD AnD th E 
CaRBOn d iSCLOSURe 
pROje Ct
offshore wind. It also provided input into 
the development of the British Gas 
Community Engagement Strategy.
Corporate responsibility strategy 
Our priorities in 2012 were treating 
customers with fairness, securing 
affordable energy supplies and reducing 
carbon emissions.
Our corporate responsibility priorities will 
be reviewed in consultation with internal 
and external stakeholders in the light of  
the Group’s refreshed strategic priorities 
introduced in the Chief Executive’s Review 
on page 11. Any changes will be set out  
in our online Corporate Responsibility 
Report to be released at the beginning  
of May 2013.  41 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Corporate Responsibility Review
Protecting biodiversity at our 
Lincs offshore wind farm
NPS ended 2012 at +39, a significant 
improvement on the 2011 score of +28.
We continue to work hard on resolving 
complaints and, in the UK, the number  
of complaints to our residential services 
business fell. In the UK, along with other 
suppliers, we are now reporting our 
complaints information quarterly to Ofgem.
Listening to customers
An important way of improving our service 
is to listen to our customers and act on 
their concerns. In the UK this has resulted 
in three areas of focus – fairness, simplicity 
and honesty. These in turn have led to 
practical changes in our service, such as 
the introduction of a tariff checker to 
enable customers to see if they are on  
the best tariff for their needs, simpler bills 
and more openness in the way we 
respond to complaints. 
Vulnerable customers
We continued to provide targeted 
assistance to vulnerable customers in the 
UK, primarily by advising on energy 
efficiency and debt, discounted tariffs, 
products and services and energy and 
household grants, and through some 
direct financial support.
fOR fu RTh ER InfOR m ATIOn On 
In ITIATIv ES dESCRIBE d I n T h IS SECTIOn 
SEE Th E OPERATIn G REv IEw S f OR 
BRITISh G AS And d IRECT En ERGy O n 
PAGES 22 And 32 .
Securing affordable energy 
supplies 
We continue to invest in securing energy 
supplies for the UK through investments in 
North Sea oil and gas assets. Our Cygnus 
project	will,	at	peak	production	in	2015,	
supply nearly 1.5 million homes. Our 
offshore wind farm investments are 
progressing. We achieved first power from 
our Lincs offshore wind farm in 2012 and 
were granted consent for the 580MW 
Race	Bank	offshore	wind	farm	project.	 
We have increased diversification through 
agreements to import pipeline gas from 
Norway and LNG from Qatar.
New forms of energy, such as shale gas, 
wind and biomass can help the countries 
in which we operate to increase their 
Achieving reductions in carbon 
emissions
Centrica gives priority to managing its 
impact on climate change. It does this 
through helping customers reduce their 
energy usage and through investing in 
lower carbon power generation. We also 
address our own behaviour through setting 
targets for reducing carbon emissions from 
our property, vehicle fleet and travel. 
Helping our customers reduce 
carbon emissions
Using energy more efficiently continues  
to be the most effective way for customers 
to reduce the amount of energy they use 
and therefore their carbon emissions. We 
promote energy efficiency mainly through 
providing customers with insulation to 
reduce heat loss from their homes and the 
installation of more efficient boilers. British 
Gas also provides products based on low 
carbon technologies including solar 
panels, heat pumps and biomass boilers 
which allow customers to heat and light 
their homes whilst producing lower carbon 
emissions. Over the past three years, we 
have enabled carbon savings downstream 
that are the equivalent of a 1.8GW wind farm. 
The UK Government’s Green Deal offers 
customers financial help to make their 
homes more energy efficient and British 
Gas will be helping to deliver this. 
Lower carbon power generation
To reduce the carbon emissions from 
power generation, the use of fossil fuel 
energy sources, in particular coal, must be 
reduced. In the UK, there has already been 
a substantial move towards lower carbon 
gas power generation. Further reductions 
can be achieved through renewable 
generation such as offshore wind. Nuclear 
generation in the UK also has an important 
role to play in lower carbon electricity 
generation. Centrica plans to maintain its 
interest in lower carbon power generation 
and to continue to invest where we have 
an economic advantage and see attractive 
returns. Our low carbon investments 
continue to come on line with first power 
generated from our 270MW Lincs offshore 
wind farm in 2012.
opportunities for energy security and  
build a lower carbon future. However,  
they can also raise significant social and 
environmental concerns. We are working 
hard to ensure that all our gas production 
and energy generation activities are 
subject	to	consultation	with	both	local	
communities and national level 
stakeholders. Such activities are carefully 
planned and managed to avoid adverse 
impacts. For example in 2012, we used 
specialised equipment to install cable 
ducts under the salt marsh for our Lincs 
offshore wind farm.
 
mORE InfOR m ATIOn CA n BE fO und  
In T h E CEn TRICA En ERGy A nd d IRECT 
En ERGy OPERATI n G REv IEw S On  
PAGES 26 And 32 .
We recently installed a second export 
cable to transfer power to the shore. 
Careful installation was essential due 
to the sensitive environment which 
included a protected salt marsh site. 
After extensive dialogue with 
stakeholders we received permission 
to use a new technology – a special 
trenching tool with wide tracks that 
reduced ground pressure for use in 
the sensitive environment. The cable 
corridor began to show signs of 
recovery after only a few weeks.  
We will monitor the site frequently 
during the next five years.  42 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Corporate Responsibility Review
CORpORate R eSpOnSiBiLity R evie W COntin Ued
Although we wish to develop further offshore 
wind farms, getting the relevant permissions 
is not straightforward and in 2012 our 
proposed	Docking	Shoal	project	did	not	
receive approval on environmental grounds.
While we are not continuing with the 
nuclear new build, we will continue to 
provide our customers with lower carbon 
power through our 20% off-take from the 
UK’s existing nuclear power stations.
We aim to reduce the carbon intensity of 
the power we generate. In 2012 our Group 
carbon intensity was 197g CO2/kWh, 
compared to 220g CO2/kWh in 2011, a 10% 
reduction. This was significantly ahead of 
our 2012 target of 270g CO2/kWh and was 
mainly due to mothballing some of our 
gas-fired power stations in the UK for 
commercial reasons. Our future carbon 
intensity is expected to rise as the markets 
adjust	and	so	our	long-term	aim	of	 
260g C02/kWh by 2020 remains valid.
Managing the emissions from 
property, fleet and travel
We are reducing our emissions from  
our property, fleet and travel by raising 
awareness among employees, making 
offices more energy efficient, investing  
in lower-carbon vehicles and providing 
alternatives to business travel. Our target is 
to cut emissions from buildings, company 
vehicles and travel in our core business by 
20% by 2015, from the 2007 baseline. In 
2012, we achieved a 2% reduction year  
on year, a 21% reduction against the 
baseline. Carbon emissions from these 
activities were 91,988 tonnes.
Absolute carbon
We also measure our absolute emissions, 
which include emissions from our gas and 
oil operations, our electricity generation and 
the energy we use in our business activities. 
Our absolute carbon emissions in 2012 
(scope 1 and 2 based on the Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol) were 7 .2 million tonnes as 
compared with 8.1 million tonnes in 2011.
 
mORE InfOR m ATIOn CA n BE fO und  
In T h E CEn TRICA En ERGy A nd d IRECT 
En ERGy OPERATIn G REv IEw S  
On PAGES 26 And 32 .
Making safety a core value 
Safety is one of the Group’s core priorities. 
The Board has direct oversight of our health 
and safety performance. Our operations are 
inherently hazardous and we fully accept 
our responsibility to protect the health and 
safety of our employees, contractors, 
customers and the wider public. 
Reinforcing a safety culture at 
Centrica
We continue to raise our standards of 
performance through strong leadership 
and on-going programmes to raise 
awareness and reinforce a positive and 
proactive safety culture across all our 
businesses. We have put particular 
emphasis on process safety in our 
upstream operations and the safety  
of the public and our engineers in our 
downstream businesses, through training 
and the introduction of more rigorous 
monitoring and assurance.
Our process safety metrics are reported 
regularly to the Executive Committee. We 
have had no significant process safety 
events in 2012. 
To monitor the personal safety of our 
employees and directly-managed 
contractors, we track our standard lost 
time	injury	frequency	rates	(LTIFR)	and	total	
recordable	injury	rates	(TRIR).	Initiatives	
across the Group in 2012 led to a reduction 
in Group LTIFR to 0.20 per 100,000 hours 
worked, down from 0.25 in 2011. Our TRIR 
was 1.42 per 100,000 hours worked in 
2012, an improvement of 14%. 
We have continued our focus on road 
safety and reducing vehicle accidents and 
our low severity incident rate has reduced 
by 33% to 5.0 per million km driven. We  
did, however, have six incidents which we 
defined as high severity and, although 
these represented a 40% reduction on 
2011, they still emphasise the need for 
ongoing rigour in our road safety 
programmes.
There were no fatal incidents among 
Centrica’s employees or associated third 
parties in 2012. We were very concerned 
that there were a number of particularly 
serious	injuries,	including	two	serious	
incidents in British Gas and Direct Energy. 
We are reinforcing our investigations and 
reporting processes to provide greater 
visibility of these events. We look to share 
understanding and learning from the 
incidents across the Group. 
Our employees 
We had an average of 38,642 employees 
in 2012 with a retention rate of 89.7% 
(2011:	89.5%).	We	work	hard	to	make	
Centrica a rewarding place to work and 
Safety is one of our core priorities 
t he Centrica Board has direct 
oversight of our health and  
safety performance 43 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Corporate Responsibility Review
have continued our focus on skills, 
development and employee engagement.
Skills and development
Continuous learning and development is 
essential to ensure employees have the 
opportunity to fulfil their potential and are 
equipped to help grow our business and 
implement our strategy. Developing our 
leaders is crucial. Our talent boards, general 
management programme and leadership 
master classes are designed to identify  
and nurture high-potential managers. In 
Centrica Energy, ‘CE Way Labs’ were  
held which helped embed the ‘CE Way’ 
culture and values and allowed people  
to share experiences. The ‘CE Way’ has 
also been linked to the performance 
management process.
Employee engagement
In 2012, as planned, we conducted a 
Group-wide employee engagement 
survey. This is an important process which 
informs management of the collective 
views of employees so that we can 
improve engagement in the future. Our 
overall engagement score, benchmarked 
against our peers, saw a slight decline but 
was still above median. Given the changes 
that had taken place in the business, this 
was not surprising and through the year 
we undertook a number of initiatives to 
engage our employees. These included 
our ‘Extraordinary you’ programme which 
brought together over 9,000 British Gas 
engineers through 104 events in 23 
locations to focus on their critical role in 
delivering excellent customer service.
Employees receive regular updates  
on Company news and performance  
by a variety of methods. This includes 
newsletters, emails, online sites and face 
to face meetings with members of the 
Executive Committee. 
Eligible employees are regularly 
encouraged to participate in employee 
share schemes and we continue to see 
good rates of participation.
Organisational change
We have had to make some organisational 
changes to reflect the changing nature of 
our business, which has resulted in some 
2,459 employees leaving the Group. 
Achieving such change is never an easy 
process and we made every effort to 
support those affected, wherever possible 
seeking to redeploy people in the business 
or supporting them in finding other work.
Diversity
We aim to provide an inclusive and  
diverse workplace and are committed to 
equal opportunity. We will not tolerate 
discrimination against any group.
We give full and fair consideration to 
applications for employment made by 
disabled people. If an employee becomes 
disabled, wherever possible we offer support, 
retraining, equipment and facilities to help 
them stay with us. In addition, we operate 
policies to help ensure there are fair promotion 
opportunities for disabled employees.
We encourage the retention and 
recruitment of older people, recognising 
the valuable experience they bring. 
Improving women’s representation at all 
levels is a priority. We focus on female 
leadership training, recruitment, flexible 
working and employee network groups. 
Community investment
In 2012, we contributed £233.6 million 
directly to supporting vulnerable customers 
and	community	and	social	projects.	 
The	majority	of	our	contributions	were	
through mandatory programmes such  
as the Warm Home Discount and the 
Community Energy Saving Programme. 
We also contributed £9.3 million to 
charitable organisations using the London 
Benchmarking Group methodology, 
including establishing strategic 
partnerships such as between British  
Gas and Shelter.
Mary Francis CBE
Chairman of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee 
27 February 2013
COntin UOUS 
LeaRning and 
deveLO pMent i S 
eSSentia L t O enSURe 
eMpLOyeeS have the 
OppORt Unity t O 
f ULfiL theiR 
pOtentia L
89.7%
Employee retention rate for 2012
mORE InfOR m ATIOn CA n BE  
f Ound I n T h E OPERATIn G REv IEw  
On PAGES 22 TO 35.
OnLine
Read more about our CR 
activities at centrica.com 44 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Principal Risks and Uncertainties
pRinCipaL RiSkS and U nCeRtaintie S
“ aSSeSSing and M anaging R iSk iS a 
f Unda Menta L paRt O f day tO day 
BUSineSS Manage Ment a CROSS 
CEntri CA. ” 
Nick Luff
Group Finance Director
t he risks we face in a rapidly changing energy landscape continue to evolve  
over time. A number of measures helped to mitigate those factors in 2012.
2012 key risks
Our principal risks and uncertainties during 2012 are summarised below, together with a brief summary on how 
these have moved or been managed throughout the year. 
Health, safety and environment
Safety	is	one	of	our	core	priorities	and	we	continue	to	target	risk	and	impact	reduction.	In	2012	we	reduced	the	lost	time	injury	
frequency rate (LTIFR) and achieved significant safety milestones at a number of operations. For example, Centrica Storage had  
no lost time incidents recorded for more than five million man hours of work.
Brand and reputation
The Group continued to change and improve the offering to customers and provide more transparent billing, and continued to roll 
out an Energy Regulation Compliance Programme.
Legislation and regulation 
Our contact programme with key stakeholders helps us respond to new initiatives and external market changes. As part of the 
Retail Market Review (RMR), we are engaging with Ofgem over their proposals, and we are also engaging with the Department  
of Energy & Climate Change (DECC) with reference to Electricity Market Reform (EMR).
Strategic growth
The Group continued to pursue a range of options across the gas value chain and undertook significant investment through 
upstream and North American acquisitions, including assets in the North Sea of £1.2 billion to secure an affordable energy supply.
Commodity prices
We continued to seek long-term supply arrangements and develop our asset portfolio. Increased wholesale and other costs 
forced us to raise gas and electricity prices in November. However, we worked to make tariffs easier to understand.
Competition
Affordability is a key issue for customers. We invested significantly in systems to ensure our customer service levels continue to 
improve and remain competitive. British Gas extended eligibility under the Warm Home Discount and developed offers with affinity 
partners, such as Sainsbury’s Energy.
Organisational change
We successfully moved our North American headquarters from Toronto to Houston. We made plans to recruit 1,000 British Gas 
energy apprentices in connection with the significant investment in smart energy. In respect of the upstream business we will 
create	significant	numbers	of	jobs	in	construction	and	across	the	supply	chain	for	the	Cygnus	project,	to	develop	the	largest	 
gas discovery in the Southern North Sea for 25 years.
Supply chain
We reviewed and refined governance processes and many suppliers signed our responsible procurement clauses. Furthermore, 
we linked supplier audit activity to low cost country sourcing.
Information security, intellectual property and assets
We operate in a complex computing environment and the threat of cyber attack against our industry remains high. We invested in 
the transition of our data centres and improved our system of internal controls.  45 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Principal Risks and Uncertainties
What are the risks?
We face four principal categories of HSSE risks associated  
with	our	operations:
•	 	 an	incident	resulting	in	one	or	more	fatalities	or	multiple	
injuries	at	an	owned,	operated	or	other	facility	where	the	
organisation has an interest;
•	 	 an	incident	which	results	in	significant	environmental	 
damage or compliance breach;
•	 	 an	incident	which	results	in	a	fatality	or	major	injury	to	
members of the public; and
•	 	 a	security	event,	requiring	activation	of	our	crisis	 
management plan and/or business continuity plan.
Such risks may result in widespread distress and harm, 
significant disruption to operations and damage to our 
reputation. The cost related to the recovery, clean up and/or 
resultant litigation could have a material financial impact.
Actual incidents, precautionary plant closures or suspension  
of activities on HSSE grounds could lead to loss of production 
or service and impact profits. Our operations have many 
inherent hazards, particularly related to exploration and 
production, power generation and offshore activities. 
We also have non-controlled interests in organisations with 
inherently high hazards, relating to the exploration and 
production of oil and gas and nuclear power generation. 
Health, safety, security and environment (HSSE)
2013 presents our organisation with more challenges. Strong governance  
and a clear risk strategy equip us for uncertainties ahead.
2013 principal risks and uncertainties
The following risks could impact our future performance. The list is not exhaustive and items are not prioritised.  
The list, and the nature of the risks, may change during the year.
How do we manage these risks?
The Board and Executive Committee oversee HSSE risk and 
consider it one of our core priorities. We provide regular training 
to all our employees and colleagues, including those in our 
customer-facing businesses and those working to ensure the 
safe operation of our assets.
We remain committed to understanding, managing and 
reducing the environmental and ecological impacts of our 
activities through innovation, technology and cultural change.
In 2012, business unit Health, Safety & Environment (HS&E) plans 
were put into place alongside the Group audit programme. 
These risks are tracked by control effectiveness assessments 
and performance metrics. We reviewed our HS&E audit operating 
model to ensure the 2013 risk-based audit programme accurately 
assesses compliance and provides assurance to the Board  
and Audit Committee. Security intelligence and operating 
procedures, as well as crisis management and business 
continuity plans, are regularly reviewed. 46 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Principal Risks and Uncertainties
What are the risks?
As highlighted in the Corporate Responsibility Review, our 
ambition is to be the most trusted energy company. Failure to 
follow our global business principles of operating professionally, 
fairly and with integrity could harm our reputation, as could real 
or perceived customer service failings. Rising prices, increased 
political pressures and deep recessionary impacts have all 
increased the level of media coverage. 
We need to ensure that we clearly communicate our future 
strategy to key stakeholders, in order to avoid an adverse 
reaction and loss of confidence in the Group.
How do we manage these risks?
The Group supports transparency, fairness and competition 
and has taken action to make bills clearer and to work with  
our customers to improve awareness about energy efficiency. 
We meet regularly with the media, government, NGOs, 
investment community, regulators and consumer groups as 
part of our relationship management strategy. Although some 
sections of our key stakeholders hold an ‘anti energy’ position, 
our Honest Conversation and Customer Board initiatives are 
recognised by industry critics as helping stakeholders 
understand the energy market.
The Group, through gas and power assets, offices and call 
centres and the 10 million visits engineers make to homes in  
the UK and North America every year, is very much part of local 
communities. We act as a responsible company within these 
communities and continue to help vulnerable customers.
In Ontario, Direct Energy launched a new customer promise 
with a commitment to see all customers without heat the very 
same day. This was based on the success of a similar service 
developed in the UK. Direct Energy is also a key supporter of a 
programme to provide people going through financially difficult 
times with assistance in paying their household bills.
Brand and reputation
pRinCipaL RiSkS and U nCeRtaintie S COntin Ued
Social media now allows consumers and pressure groups to 
mount damaging direct action and other campaigns more 
readily than before.
Failure to restore public confidence could impact Group 
revenues. Public exposure to criticism could damage our brand, 
increase governmental or regulatory intervention and reduce 
access to financial capital.
What are the risks?
Energy markets in the UK, North America and mainland Europe 
are closely regulated. Legal or regulatory changes could impact 
our ability to achieve financial goals. 
New financial regulation was introduced in the US and Europe 
as a result of the global financial crisis. As part of this we are  
still awaiting finalisation of the rules and regulations in Europe 
and in the US, under the Dodd-Frank Act. These could 
adversely affect the manner in which we currently deal in the 
commodity markets. Governments and regulators, often under 
public pressure, have also stepped up levels of enforcement 
and intervention. 
Retail sector competitiveness continues to face regulatory 
scrutiny, as the costs of higher wholesale commodity prices are 
passed	on	to	customers,	just	as	disposable	incomes	are	falling	
and deepening recessionary impacts continue to be felt. In the 
UK, Ofgem’s updated RMR proposals could introduce 
significant risk to our downstream business and reduce 
innovation and affordable choice for customers. 
In North America, the legal and regulatory framework is 
primarily set at a provincial or state level, making generalisations 
difficult and our entry into new markets needs to be assessed 
on a case by case basis. 
Public statements made by governing political bodies can 
cause concern. One of the challenges would be the abolition of 
existing or future ‘green’ subsidies, as occurred in the UK solar 
industry and in other energy sources around the world, such as 
the end of free carbon allowances in 2012 which will impact our 
upstream business. 
Such developments may have a material adverse effect on  
our business, operations, financial condition and ability to  
meet long-term growth aspirations, especially if any case  
of compliance failure receives extensive media coverage. 
Legislation and regulation
How do we manage these risks?
We proactively engage stakeholders, including governments 
and regulators in the UK and North America, to help shape 
these proposals and manage the risks they present. The 
Centrica Policy Group met regularly during 2012, setting 
Group-wide positions on each issue.
In 2012, we formed a Corporate Reputation Group to  
discuss threats from legislative and regulatory proposals.  
We also continued to roll out our Energy Regulation  
Compliance Programme. 47 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Principal Risks and Uncertainties
What are the risks?
Strategic issues, including capital investment in mergers, 
acquisitions, disposals, market position, climate change, 
sustainable development and new technologies, are affected by 
the global economy. As we implement our refreshed strategic 
priorities to deliver our vision to be the leading integrated energy 
company with customers at our core, we face an increasingly 
uncertain environment. Challenges include the intensifying 
uncertainty in the world economy reflected by concerns over 
further economic deterioration, pressure from higher wholesale 
prices, increased competition, reduced demand and 
recessionary impacts, all of which contribute to making market 
conditions challenging. 
The economic condition of the countries and markets in which 
the Group operates, namely the UK and North America, are of 
concern, with the extent and timing of recovery uncertain. The 
UK entered a double-dip recession during 2012, with the threat 
of an unprecedented triple-dip in 2013. The US experienced the 
potential for a ‘fiscal cliff’ and the proximity of further ‘fiscal 
cliffs’ in 2013 exists with the possibility, from the interconnected 
global financial systems, of this not only impacting our overseas 
operations but also the Group as a whole. 
How do we manage these risks?
The Group pursues a range of strategic investment options 
across the gas value chain and in different geographies, to both 
deepen our customer relationships and secure the Group’s 
future energy requirements.
In 2012, we invested £2.7 billion to secure energy supplies and 
increase energy reserves. In addition, our investment in the 
Cygnus	project,	when	complete	and	at	peak	production,	will	
meet the energy needs of nearly 1.5 million UK homes. We 
continue to seek industry partnerships to supply the UK with 
gas and three such supply deals have been signed since 2011. 
Decisions on the future of energy markets also pose risks  
to our existing and future operations. The UK Government’s 
preference for converting coal power stations to co-firing 
biomass rather than building dedicated biomass facilities led  
us to end our investment in dedicated biomass power station 
projects.	The	US	President’s	re-election	indicated	continued	
support for all domestic energy sources – shale, power 
generation including nuclear, renewable, carbon capture  
and storage – although specific details remain uncertain.
The rise of the digital economy is adding to competitive 
pressures and with the internet entering a second phase 
dominated by mobile devices, the barriers to market entry  
are falling and customer loyalties can change swiftly. In the  
UK market, a significant number of our customers have 
changed in line with this, as they now choose to deal with us 
through accessing digital channels, such as the British Gas 
website and smartphone applications. Smart meters represent 
one of the biggest changes in the retail energy market since  
the 1970s and British Gas will operate not only in an energy  
market but in an energy services and advisory market  
open to non-traditional players.
In North America, the Group continues to deliver on its 
priorities. The residential, business and services footprint has 
grown, helping the upstream business perform well despite  
low gas and power prices. 
We aspire to lead in the roll-out of smart meters to give 
consumers insight into how smart products will transform the 
way they understand their energy use. We are market leader  
in the supply for electric vehicle charge points and the Group 
continues to offer expertise in energy efficiency through 
domestic energy efficiency surveys and home insulation. 
Furthermore, the Group is mindful of the need to keep abreast 
of emerging technologies and the potential impact on the smart 
connected home of the future and as such we maintain links 
with technology experts to give us further advantage.
Strategic growth 48 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Principal Risks and Uncertainties
pRinCipaL RiSkS and U nCeRtaintie S COntin Ued
How do we manage these risks?
The Group has an active hedging programme and tracks 
supplier risks through robust governance frameworks. Strategic 
investment decisions are made within a capital allocation 
framework designed to ensure that proposals are rigorously 
evaluated prior to acquisition and that they meet Board-
approved	financial	criteria	over	the	life	of	the	project.	The	gas	
supply relationships with Statoil, Qatargas and Gazprom, the 
acquisition of additional assets and the securing of new licences 
for exploration blocks are examples of how we continue to 
develop our portfolio.
Commodity costs
What are the risks?
Volatile commodity costs affect our ability to price competitively 
and meet profit targets. The Group buys a significant proportion 
of the gas to supply Britain’s needs. This position sets the 
Group apart from the other counterparts in the UK market. To 
maintain supply and protect against possible price increases 
much of this is procured in advance in order to ensure a 
balanced supply and demand portfolio. Mild weather could 
reduce demand, leaving the Group with a surplus of gas which 
would have to be sold back to the wholesale market at a loss. 
This could contribute to customer bills not dropping when 
wholesale prices later fall. 
There has been a significant impact from shale gas in North 
America where an immediate effect has been to lower 
wholesale gas prices in the US and weaken the traditional links 
between gas and oil prices. Such an emerging energy source 
could influence global energy markets over time, with the 
surplus of gas affecting the current liquefied natural gas (LNG) 
sector in particular.
Investment decisions key to Group strategic growth plans, 
particularly in respect of upstream assets such as gas fields or 
power stations, are based on evaluations underpinned by 
forecasts of longer-term commodity price development. These 
reflect prevailing market prices and are supplemented by 
assessments of underlying industry fundamentals.
Assets, including goodwill, may be impaired if discounted future 
cash flows from an asset are insufficient to cover its cost on the 
balance sheet. The excess asset cost on the Group balance 
sheet will be provided against and charged to the Group 
income statement. The cash flows of assets are sensitive to 
changes	in:
•	 commodity	prices;
•	 discount	rates;
•	 reserve	estimates/useful	economic	life;
•	 	 capital	expenditure/operating	expenditure	assumptions	
(including changes in decommissioning estimates); and
•	 operational	performance.
There are also a number of contractual capacity contracts,  
the economic value of which depends on volatile spread 
relationships.
How do we manage these risks?
Change is a constant in any successful organisation. The Group 
continues to change and adapt to remain competitive and 
provide the best service at the lowest cost. We address difficult 
decisions and challenging situations head on in order to provide 
energy to Britain’s homes and businesses.
Change	activity	is	managed	through	a	combination	of	project/
programme boards and regular review at both a business unit 
and	executive	level.	In	2012,	we	created	a	project	management	
directorate	to	improve	governance	of	large	capital	projects	in	
our upstream business. 
We also assess carefully the overall cumulative impact of the 
level of change across the organisation at any one time.
Change management 
What are the risks?
The level of change experienced by our business is significant, 
deriving	from:
•	 capital	projects;
•	 IT	change	programmes;	and
•	 organisational	change.
We	assess	large	capital	projects	as	a	means	of	growth.	Such	
large-scale initiatives carry complexity and could result in the 
Group entering new markets, whilst exposing us to the risk of 
build quality issues, cost and timetable overruns, unsuccessful 
development of partnership opportunities and health, safety, 
security and environmental failures. 
Internal IT change programmes are equally large and complex. 
Work	on	existing	systems	carries	the	risks	of:	
•	 	 trying	to	deliver	too	much	change	and	over-stretching	
resources; 
•	 	 change	being	completed	but	systems	integrity	being	
undermined and threatening business continuity; and
•	 cost	overruns	and/or	expected	benefits	not	being	realised.	
Organisational change stems from internal restructuring as  
we drive to make our business as efficient and effective as 
possible, without detriment to our levels of customer service. 
Our recent announcements mean that the Group will face a 
period of increased change activity in 2013. 49 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Principal Risks and Uncertainties
How do we manage these risks?
Controls include network segregation, monitoring, storage 
system access restrictions, regular third party security reviews 
and vulnerability assessments of infrastructure and applications. 
Our Group Information Systems (IS) risk team monitors and 
reviews adherence to the IS risk policy and works with the UK 
Government to exchange information and threat intelligence 
between government agencies and the energy sector. 
Business continuity plans are in place to manage significant 
outages or interruptions. To improve efficiency, the Group 
continues	to	invest	in	systems,	supported	by	strong	project	
management, to minimise the associated implementation risk. 
In 2012, the Group continued to implement IS programmes, 
with specific efforts in North America to consolidate the 
systems of new acquisitions. 
Information security
What are the risks?
Effective and secure information systems are essential for 
efficient management and accurate billing of customers, 
upstream operations and energy trading and hedging activities. 
The confidentiality, integrity and availability of our information 
systems	could	be	affected	by:
•	 	 accidental	or	deliberate	exposure	of	share-price	sensitive	
information, customer or employee and contractor  
personal data; 
•	 	 viral	effect	of	employees,	crusader	consumers	or	‘hacktivist’	
groups using social media channels that expose the Group to 
legal liabilities, damage our reputation or disclose confidential 
information;
•	 	 accidental	or	deliberate	changes	to	financial	and	other	data	
the Group relies on; 
•	 	 lack	of	availability	of	systems	due	to	inadequate	infrastructure	
and data-recovery processes; and
•	 	 an	external	online	attack	that	renders	the	Group	unable	to	
conduct normal business activities and/or results in the loss 
or exposure of personal data, intellectual property or other 
confidential information or the disruption of control systems.
The threat of cyber attacks against our industry continues to 
escalate to similar levels experienced by government agencies 
and financial institutions. There could be multiple sources of 
motivation for these attacks. These risks, however, which could 
arise from inadequate or inconsistent implementation of IT 
security controls, could seriously affect the Group’s reputation, 
lead to legal action and/or outages that could cause financial 
and operational loss. The US and EU data privacy proposals 
increase the implications of such risks materialising, due to 
proposals around public notification of any data breach and the 
scale of associated fines for non-compliance. 50 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Principal Risks and Uncertainties
How do we manage these risks?
We regularly review our organisation to make sure that people 
are empowered to make the right decisions at the right time  
and to look for ways to work better, smarter and safer. 
We regularly review the capability of the organisation to deliver 
our	strategic	objectives.	An	extensive	exercise	has	been	
undertaken in critical areas to ensure we have the right 
capabilities to deliver our plans for growth and innovation.
In 2012, reward reviews were carried out in specific areas to 
retain key skills and prevent the possibility of an escalation 
in attrition.
The Group invests in developing all employees, including 
technical, behavioural and leadership skills. The Group engages 
with unions on restructuring and issues that could impact terms 
and conditions and provides channels for employees to discuss 
concerns. Human Resources is involved in merger and 
acquisition activity to ensure that, following integrations, we 
retain key attributes and recruit the right talent, especially in  
an emerging market.
People 
What are the risks?
Key to our ability to successfully deliver business plans and 
strategic growth is the attraction, retention and succession 
planning of senior management and individuals with key skills. 
This applies to customer service, the delivery of new systems 
and in particular to areas where there is strong competition for 
technical	and	project	management	capability,	such	as	our	
upstream business.
As we continue to change, the business must be organised in 
the most effective and efficient way possible to ensure its cost 
base is as low as possible, so that we can offer customers 
competitive prices and products. This includes both cultural 
and behavioural change as well as ambitious technical-change 
programmes.
As part of this, the Group also needs to maintain good relations 
with trade unions, primarily the Centrica Energy upstream 
business operational workforce and British Gas engineers. 
There is a risk that industrial relations with the GMB and/or 
UNISON fail or become ineffective as a result of a breakdown  
in negotiations over employment terms or as a response to 
widespread union unrest in the UK.
Failure to maintain a high calibre, engaged and stable workforce 
could compromise achievement of the Group’s strategy and 
could have a material adverse effect on its business, results  
of operations and overall financial condition.
pRinCipaL RiSkS and U nCeRtaintie S COntin Ued
Risk management processes  
on pages 58 to 60.
Financial risk management  
on pages 111 to 114.
HS&E reporting and activities  
on page 42.
fUR the R inf ORMati On  Governance
51 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
 51 Directors’ Report – Governance
 52 Corporate Governance Report
 52 The Board
 54 Board Performance
 54 Board Committees
  55 Audit Committee
  56 Nominations Committee
  56 Remuneration Committee
  57 Corporate Responsibility Committee
  57 Executive Committee
  57 Disclosure Committee
 58 Relations with Shareholders
 58 Risk Management and Internal Control
 60 Going Concern
 60 Directors’ Responsibility Statement
 60 Disclosure of Information to Auditors
 60 Independent Auditors
 61 Remuneration Report
 61 Letter to Shareholders
 62 Remuneration Summary
 64 Remuneration Policy
  64 Total Remuneration Package
  66 Executive Directors’ Remuneration
  67 Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration
 68 Remuneration Statement
  68 Remuneration Committee
  68 Executive Directors’ Remuneration
  69 Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration
  69 Statutory Disclosures
  70 Remuneration Tables 
  75 Changes since 1 January 2013
 76 Independent Auditors’ Report – Group
Board of Directors’ and Senior Executives’ biographies can  
be found on pages 152 and 153 and Other Statutory Information 
can be found on page 154 within the Appendix to the 
Directors’ Report.
Contents  
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 
“ AN ORGANISATION IS DEPENDENT 
UPON ITS MANAGEMENT AND 
STRUCTURE FOR THE EXECUTION OF 
STRATEGY AND ITS CULTURE FOR THE 
WAY IN WHICH ITS RESULTS ARE 
ACHIEVED.” 
 
 
Sir Roger Carr
Chairman 
This year, the Company is reporting in accordance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the Code) introduced in June 2010 
which sets out standards of good practice in relation to board 
leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability 
and relations with shareholders. A copy of the Code is available from 
the UK Financial Reporting Council (FRC). The Company complied 
fully with the provisions set out in the Code throughout the year. 
The Chairman’ s Statement on pages 5 to 8 discusses the 
Company’ s corporate culture and practice as well as Board 
composition, diversity, succession planning and evaluation. Details 
of the Company’ s business model and strategies for delivering 
objectives are set out in the Business Review on pages 9 to 50. 
The Company’ s Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages 
52 to 60. 
During the last few years, there have been a number of reviews 
and consultations on governance matters. Centrica takes an 
active interest in such developments and will continue to do so.  
In September 2012, the FRC published a revised Code which 
the Company fully supports. While the Company will be reporting 
in accordance with the revised guidance in its 2013 Annual Report, 
the Board have taken into account the revised provisions when 
preparing this Report. 
The Board 
Board of Directors 
The Board believes that good corporate governance contributes 
to Centrica’ s performance. A clearly defined framework of roles, 
responsibilities and delegated authorities is in place and this 
supports the Board’ s aim to deliver sustainable growth for the 
benefit of shareholders, employees and customers. The findings 
of the recent Board evaluation continue to demonstrate that the 
Directors consider that the Board leads and controls the Group 
effectively, has a robust governance structure and that no individual 
or small group of individuals dominate the Board’ s decision-making. 
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Company’ s Articles 
of Association (Articles), which are available on the Company’ s 
website. The Articles may be amended by special resolution. 
In addition, the Directors have responsibilities and duties under 
legislation, in particular the Companies Act 2006. 
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its 
approval which it reviewed against best practice in December 2012 
and concluded that no changes were necessary. A summary is 
shown below and the full schedule is available on the Company’ s 
website. 
The Board is responsible for: 
 development of strategy and major policies; 
 the Group's corporate governance and system of internal control; 
 reviewing performance; 
 approving interim dividend payments and recommending final 
dividend payments; 
 approval of the annual operating plan, financial statements 
and major acquisitions and disposals; 
 the Group's corporate responsibility arrangements including 
health, safety and environmental matters; and 
 the appointment and removal of Directors and the Company 
Secretary. 
The Board recognises that its Non-Executive Directors have other 
interests outside of Centrica and so, each year, the Chairman 
and each Non-Executive Director provide assurance to the Board 
that they remain fully committed to their respective roles. The Board 
considers these assurances and is satisfied that each can dedicate 
the necessary amount of time to attend to the Company’ s affairs. 
 
Governance – Corporate Governance Report
52 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
 
 
Board meetings 
The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout the year 
and in 2012 there were eight scheduled meetings of the Board. 
The Board continuously assesses and reviews key priorities and 
business issues for the Group over the short, medium and longer 
term. Comprehensive papers are presented to the Board which 
facilitate meaningful debate on the performance and future  
direction of the Company.  
All Directors are expected to attend all Board and relevant 
Committee meetings. Details of attendance by Directors at Board 
meetings during 2012 are set out in the table below and their 
attendance at Committee meetings, where appropriate, is included 
on pages 55 to 57. Where a Director was not in attendance, this was 
due to other prior work commitments. Directors who were unable 
to attend specific Board or Committee meetings reviewed 
the relevant papers and provided their comments to the Chairman 
of the Board or Committee, as appropriate. In addition, any Director 
who misses a meeting will, as a matter of course, receive 
the minutes of that meeting for future reference. 
  
Number of 
meetings 
Meetings 
attended
Sir Roger Carr (Chairman) 8 8
Sam Laidlaw 8 8
Phil Bentley 8 8
Margherita Della Valle 8 7
Mary Francis 8 8
Mark Hanafin 8 8
Lesley Knox 8 7
Nick Luff 8 8
Andrew Mackenzie 8 7
Ian Meakins 8 7
Paul Rayner 8 8
Chris Weston 8 8
 
As part of its responsibilities, the Board approves and monitors the 
development of the Group's strategy. In addition to the discussions 
at the scheduled Board meetings, in 2012 the Board held two 
additional meetings devoted specifically to strategy. In 2012 
the Board conference reviewed the progress against our strategic 
priorities and debated the challenges within our current markets. 
The Board discussed options for the new strategic direction for the 
Group and started to develop the priorities introduced on page 11. 
Key strategic considerations included: 
 the competitive landscape and market conditions; 
 a further interim assessment of our investment in new nuclear;  
 an assessment of growth options across the Group and investment 
opportunities in exploration and production, midstream (including 
UK gas storage), power generation and downstream; and 
 a review of different capital allocation options, including an 
assessment of long-term financial performance and capacity 
under various scenarios of the business and the optimal use of 
capital, including whether any capital should in future be returned 
to shareholders. 
Board constitution and appointments 
The Board comprises a good balance of Executive Directors  
and independent Non-Executive Directors which promotes 
thorough consideration of the important issues facing Centrica 
and the Group’ s performance. The roles of Chairman and Chief 
Executive are separate, formalised in writing and have been 
approved by the Board. They are available on the Company’ s 
website, together with an explanation of the roles of the Non-
Executive Directors. 
As discussed in the Chairman’ s Statement, the Non-Executive 
Directors play a key governance role and bring an external view 
to the Board’ s deliberations through their knowledge, experience 
and insight from other sectors. As part of its annual review of 
corporate governance, the Board considered the independence 
of each Non-Executive Director, other than the Chairman, against 
the criteria in the Code and determined that each Non-Executive 
Director remained independent. During the year the Non- 
Executive Directors, including the Chairman, met independently 
of management. In addition, the Senior Independent Director met 
with the independent Non-Executive Directors in the absence of 
the Chairman to appraise the Chairman’ s performance. 
A formal, rigorous and transparent process is followed during 
the selection and subsequent appointment of new Directors 
to the Board. However, there have been no changes to the 
composition of the Board during 2012. Board composition planning, 
however, is discussed in the Chairman’ s Statement on page 7. 
The Companies Act 2006 and the Articles require the Board 
to consider any potential conflicts of interest. The Board considers 
and, if appropriate, authorises each Director’ s reported actual and 
potential conflicts of interest regularly. The conflicts of interest register 
is reviewed at least annually by the Board. Each Director abstains 
from approving their own reported conflicts. 
The Board has agreed that each Director shall stand for 
re-appointment at each Annual General Meeting (AGM). 
Details of the Directors of the Company are set out in the Chairman’ s 
Statement on pages 6 and 7 with their biographies on pages 
152 and 153. Details of Directors’ service contracts or letters of 
appointment, in the case of Non-Executive Directors, emoluments 
and share interests are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 
61 to 75. 
Directors’ indemnities and insurance 
In accordance with the Articles, the Company has granted a deed  
of indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to Directors and  
the General Counsel & Company Secretary. Qualifying third party 
indemnity provisions (as defined by section 234 of the Companies 
Act 2006) were in force during the year ended 31 December 2012 
and remain in force. The Company also maintains directors’ 
and officers’ liability insurance for its Directors and Officers. 
 
ONLINE
Use your smartphone or 
tablet to scan this QR for 
instant access to the 
Directors’ biographies 
Governance – Corporate Governance Report
53 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED 
 
 
 
Board performance 
Board evaluation 
The Board considers the annual review of the Board, its Committees 
and Directors as an essential part of good corporate governance, 
with the use of an external facilitator at least once every three years. 
Over the last ten years, the Company has employed Egon Zehnder 
on two occasions, JCA Group and in 2011, Independent Board 
Evaluations (IBE). On each occasion, the Board has received positive 
reports and has adopted recommendations to improve Board, 
Committee and individual Director performance.  
A full discussion on the implementation of IBE’ s findings during 2012 
and the internal evaluation conducted in December 2012 can be 
found in the Chairman’ s Statement on page 8. 
Board development 
All new Directors appointed to the Board receive a comprehensive 
induction programme tailored to meet their individual needs. 
The Chairman and General Counsel & Company Secretary 
are responsible for delivering an effective induction programme 
for newly appointed Directors, specially tailored to meet the 
individual’ s requirements. This will comprise briefings from members 
of the Executive team on key areas of the business including 
the internal audit function, an overview of the Group’ s risk 
management processes, the key risks facing the business 
and a briefing in respect of the corporate governance framework 
within Centrica.  
Ongoing development and training is also provided to all Directors 
at Board and Committee meetings. During the year, Directors 
received regular updates and presentations on changes and 
developments to the business and to the legislative and regulatory 
environments in which the Group operates. In particular, the Board 
was briefed on the following key issues during 2012: 
 the impact of changes in Government policy on the green agenda 
and social costs; 
 progress with and the impact of the Retail Market Review (RMR) 
and Electricity Market Reform (EMR); 
 Centrica’ s improved approach to managing major capital projects; 
 demonstrations of the latest developments in British Gas smart 
technology; 
 progress within the Goup’ s FSA regulated businesses (British Gas 
Insurance and UK Midstream); 
 company law, corporate governance, reporting and remuneration 
reporting developments; and 
 health, safety and environmental governance and strategy. 
The Directors have full access to the advice and services of the 
General Counsel & Company Secretary, who is responsible for 
advising the Board through the Chairman on corporate governance 
matters. They are also able to seek independent professional advice 
at the Company’ s expense in respect of their duties. 
Board committees 
The Board operates six Committees to oversee the standards 
of the Group: Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, Corporate 
Responsibility, Executive and Disclosure. The Committees 
are supported in the same way as the Board in order to ensure 
information flows in a timely, accurate and complete manner. 
All of the independent Non-Executive Directors are members 
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, 
with the exception of Andrew Mackenzie who is not a member 
of the Audit Committee. The Board reviews annually each 
Committee’ s terms of reference and membership against best 
practice as well as taking into account any relevant changes 
in circumstances. In December 2012, the Board approved minor 
revisions to the terms of reference for the Audit Committee. All  
other terms of reference remain unchanged. The full written  
terms of reference for the Committees can be found on the 
Company’ s website. 
Minutes of Committee meetings are made available to all Directors 
and the Chairmen of each Committee provide regular updates 
to the Board. 
A chart setting out the Company’ s Board and Executive Committees’ 
structure is below. The responsibilities of each Board Committee, 
its membership and the key issues considered by each one during 
2012 are set out in the following Committee reports. 
 
 
 
 
 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Board governance structure
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Audit
Committee 
Group Risk
Management
Committee 
Investment
Sub-Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee
Nominations
Committee
Corporate
Responsibility 
Committee 
Disclosure
Committee 
Executive
Committee
Governance – Corporate Governance Report
54 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
 
 
Audit Committee 
 
 
 monitor the integrity and audit of the Financial Statements; 
 review the internal financial controls, internal control and risk 
management systems; 
 monitor and review the effectiveness of Internal Audit; 
 establish and oversee appropriate whistleblowing and fraud 
prevention arrangements; and 
 establish and oversee the relationship with the external 
auditors, including any non-audit services. 
During 2012, the Committee considered: 
 the 2011 preliminary results, 2011 Annual Report  
and 2012 half year results; 
 the critical accounting judgements (see note 3 of the Financial 
Statements on pages 83 to 85), including the impairment 
reviews of power stations, upstream oil and gas assets, 
planned gas storage facilities, onerous contracts, nuclear 
new build investment and goodwill; 
 Directors’ judgements on exceptional items (see note 7 of the 
Financial Statements on page 92); 
 progress on aligning assurance activities to improve the quality 
and delivery of internal controls and assurance; 
 the Internal Audit strategy and scope of activities; 
 the independence, objectivity and fees of the external auditors 
and scope of audit and non-audit services;  
 the new UK Corporate Governance Code; and 
 adherence across the Group to key regulatory and compliance 
regulations, including compliance with the undertakings in 
respect of Centrica Storage Limited. 
  
Number of 
meetings 
Meetings 
attended
Paul Rayner (Chairman) 4 4
Margherita Della Valle 4 4
Mary Francis 4 4
Lesley Knox 4 4
Ian Meakins 4 3
 
The Board has determined that each member of the Committee 
is independent. In accordance with the Code, Paul Rayner and 
Margherita Della Valle are identified as having recent and relevant 
financial experience. As noted in the Chairman’ s Statement on 
page 8, it is intended that Margherita Della Valle will assume 
chairmanship of the Audit Committee in July 2013. 
The Committee members participated in two training sessions 
during the year: one in July 2012 facilitated by members 
of Centrica Energy’ s management team focusing on the 
management of Centrica Energy’ s midstream and trading risks 
and one in November 2012 in respect of the Direct Energy 
residential business.  
The Committee considers annually the scope, fee, performance 
and independence of the external auditors as well as whether 
a formal tender process is required. In accordance with the 
transition provisions of the revised Code, the Group will perform 
an external audit tender process before 2017. During the year , 
at the Committee’ s request, PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) 
performed a detailed review of their audit and submitted a formal 
proposal for re-appointment. T o assess the effectiveness of the 
external auditors, the Committee considered feedback on the 
audit process gathered through a survey. This included questions 
on the fulfilment of the external audit plan and any variations, the 
external auditors’ qualifications and resources, the robustness of 
the auditors in handling key accounting and audit judgements and 
the insightfulness of recommendations included in the external 
auditors’ internal control report. 
The Board considers it of prime importance that the external 
auditors remain independent and objective and as a safeguard 
against this being compromised, the Committee implemented 
and monitors a policy on the independence of external auditors,
a copy of which is available on the Company’ s website. 
The policy details the appointment of external auditors, the setting 
of audit fees and the rotation of audit partner and staff. The policy 
also restricts the types of non-audit work that can be undertaken 
by the external auditors. The award of non-audit work, 
within permitted categories, is subject to pre-clearance 
by the Committee if the fee exceeds specified thresholds. 
The Committee is provided with reports of all non-audit 
assignments awarded to the external auditors and a full 
breakdown of non-audit fees incurred. A summary of fees 
paid to the external auditors is set out in note 32 to the Financial 
Statements on pages 120 and 121. 
In accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK & 
Ireland) 260 and Ethical Statement 1 issued by the Accounting 
Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external 
auditors have confirmed their independence as auditors of the 
Company, in a letter addressed to the Directors. 
PwC has been the external auditor of the Group since 
the demerger of Centrica in 1997. The Committee makes 
recommendations through the Board to the shareholders 
to consider at the AGM, or at any time during the year, 
on the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external 
auditors. There are no contractual obligations restricting 
the Group’ s choice of external auditors. Following the above 
review and having given full consideration to the performance 
and independence of the external auditors, the Committee has 
recommended to the Board that a resolution to re-appoint PwC 
be proposed at the 2013 AGM and the Board has accepted 
and endorsed this recommendation. 
The Audit Committee’s key function is to review 
the effectiveness of the Company’s financial reporting 
and internal controls together with the procedures 
for the identification, assessment and reporting of risks. 
The Committee is authorised by the Board to: 
Key issues reviewed by the Audit Committee 
Membership and attendance during the year: 
Governance – Corporate Governance Report
55 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED 
 
 
 
Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee 
 
 
 make appointment recommendations to the Board for the 
appointment, re-appointment or replacement of Directors; 
 devise and consider succession planning arrangements for 
Directors and other senior executives; and 
 regularly review the structure, size and composition of the 
Board and to recommend any proposed changes to the 
Board. 
During 2012, the Committee considered: 
 succession planning for the Executive Directors;  
 a review of Non-Executive Directors whose length of service 
was more than six years; 
 the relevant skills and criteria which would be required in 
respect of the search for a new Non-Executive Director with 
strong upstream experience in North America; and 
 each of the Directors prior to the 2012 AGM and 
recommended that each of them be subject for re-election at 
the 2012 AGM. 
  
Number of 
meetings 
Meetings 
attended
Sir Roger Carr (Chairman) 3 3
Sam Laidlaw 3 2
Margherita Della Valle 3 3
Mary Francis 3 3
Lesley Knox 3 2
Andrew Mackenzie 3 1
Ian Meakins 3 2
Paul Rayner 3 3
 
In addition to the above meetings, the Committee met with the 
Chief Executive and the Group Director, Human Resources to 
undertake an annual succession review for senior management. 
 
 
 determine total individual remuneration packages, authorise 
any contract of employment/letter of appointment and other 
terms and conditions for the Board and senior executives; 
 approve the design of, and determine targets for, any 
performance related pay schemes for the Executive 
Committee and approve the total annual payments; and 
 review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by 
the Board and shareholders. 
During 2012, the Committee considered: 
 total remuneration, including a review of base pay for 2012; 
 annual earnings of Executive Directors;  
 an amendment to the Centrica Unfunded Pension Scheme 
(CUPS) for the Executive Directors; 
 potential amendments to the performance targets of the Long 
T erm Incentive Scheme (LTIS) and Deferred and Matching 
Share Scheme (DMSS); and 
 the impact of changing legislation on the operation of the 
existing share schemes and developments in government and 
best practice proposals on executive remuneration. 
The Committee regularly considers a number of items which, 
for 2012, included the performance and objectives under 
the Annual Incentive Scheme, the vesting and allocation awards 
for the LTIS and DMSS and the annual valuation of CUPS. 
  
Number of 
meetings 
Meetings 
attended
Lesley Knox (Chairman) 5 5
Sir Roger Carr 5 5
Margherita Della Valle 5 5
Mary Francis 5 5
Andrew Mackenzie 5 5
Ian Meakins 5 3
Paul Rayner 5 5
 
The Board has determined that each member of the Committee 
is independent. No Director is involved in the determination of, or 
votes on, any matters relating to his or her own remuneration. 
The Nominations Committee ensures there is a formal and 
appropriate procedure for the appointment of new 
Directors to the Board. The Committee is responsible for 
leading this process and making recommendations to the 
Board. 
The Committee is authorised by the Board to: 
Key issues reviewed by the Nominations Committee 
Membership and attendance during the year: 
The principal role of the Committee is to determine and 
make recommendations to the Board on the Company’s 
framework and policy for the remuneration of the 
Chairman of the Board, the Company’s Executive 
Directors and other senior executives. 
The Committee is authorised by the Board to: 
Key issues reviewed by the Remuneration Committee 
Membership and attendance during the year: 
THESE ISSUES ARE DISCUSSED IN MORE
DETAIL WITHIN THE CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
ON PAGES 5 TO 8 
 
THESE ISSUES ARE DISCUSSED IN MORE
DETAIL WITHIN THE REMUNERATION REPORT
ON PAGES 61 TO 75 
 
Governance – Corporate Governance Report
56 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
 
 
Executive Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee 
 
 endorse the Group’ s Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategy, 
policies, processes and standards, assist periodic reviews of 
them and oversee the effectiveness of management’ s 
implementation; 
 monitor performance against agreed KPIs and targets; 
 review the framework for managing CR across the Group 
and its effectiveness; and 
 review the effectiveness of Centrica’ s communications about 
CR strategy and performance externally and internally. 
During 2012, the Committee focused on: 
 reviewing key CR performance indicators, in particular on 
environmental, health and safety and customer engagement 
metrics as well as key CR strategic priorities; 
 specific CR issues in relation to each business unit, including 
CR aspects of topical and emerging energy issues such as 
bio-energy and shale gas;  
 development of key business activities, including progress on 
further improving the management of responsible procurement 
within the business; 
 reviewing the assurance provided by Deloitte LLP in respect 
of the CR report; and 
 feedback received directly from members of the British Gas 
Customer Board on initiatives to improve engagement with 
British Gas customers. 
  
Number of 
meetings 
Meetings 
attended
Mary Francis (Chairman) 3 3
Sam Laidlaw 3 3
Phil Bentley 3 3
Grant Dawson 3 3
Margherita Della Valle 3 3
Andrew Mackenzie 3 3
Chris Weston 3 3
 
The Executive Committee has overall responsibility 
for implementing CR strategy across the Group. 
 
Disclosure Committee 
During 2012, the Committee considered the release of the 2011 
preliminary announcement, the interim management statements 
in May and November 2012, the 2012 half year results 
and the release of announcements in respect of specific 
projects. The Committee also undertook a full review 
of the Group’ s control of inside information and compliance 
with the Model Code. 
  
Number of 
meetings
Meetings 
attended
Sam Laidlaw (Chairman) 7 7
Grant Dawson 7 7
Nick Luff 7 7
 
The Committee regularly considers financial and operational 
performance against an operating plan, health and safety 
performance, human resourcing issues including employee 
engagement, senior management changes and succession 
planning and proposed acquisitions and divestments. 
In particular, major proposed transactions are considered 
by the Executive Committee prior to consideration by the Board 
together with progress made on major operational projects. 
  
Number of 
meetings
Meetings 
attended
Sam Laidlaw (Chairman) 11 11
Phil Bentley 11 11
Grant Dawson 11 9
Mark Hanafin 11 10
Nick Luff 11 11
Jill Shedden 11 11
Chris Weston 11 11
The role of the Corporate Responsibility Committee  
is to ensure that Centrica effectively manages its impact 
on society, the environment and the wider economy. 
The Committee is authorised by the Board to: 
Key issues reviewed by the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee 
Membership and attendance during the year: 
The Disclosure Committee is responsible for the 
implementation and monitoring of systems and controls in 
respect of the management and disclosure of inside 
information and for ensuring that regulatory 
announcements, shareholder circulars, prospectuses and 
other documents issued by the Company comply with 
applicable legal or regulatory requirements. 
Key issues reviewed by the Disclosure Committee 
Membership and attendance during the year: 
The Executive Committee is responsible for the day to day 
management of the Group’s operations within the limits 
set out in the Group’s delegation of authority. The 
Committee also has a schedule of matters specifically 
reserved for its approval, including Health, Safety and 
Environmental policies and standards. 
Key issues reviewed by the Executive Committee 
Membership and attendance during the year: 
THESE ISSUES ARE DISCUSSED IN MORE
DETAIL WITHIN THE CORPORATE 
RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW ON PAGES 39 TO 43 
 
Governance – Corporate Governance Report
57 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
CO
 
 
 
Rela
The B
an eff
The B
views
forma
Durin
of the
Atten
the pr
includ
share
on the
The C
meeti
The C
the m
to ma
Comm
share
arrang
chang
share
of the
to the
Perce
appro
mana
The C
to dev
can a
includ
gener
of AG
the m
AGM
of the
at all C
the op
by pro
the vo
on the
Mary 
to sha
chann
Centr
and o
circula
to the
Risk
The B
and ri
to the
diagra
risk a
are co
are at
ORPOR
ations with s
Board recognise
fective investor 
Board is proacti
s on a number o
al investor feedb
g 2012, Centric
e Group’ s 2011 
ded by both Ex
resentations we
ding representa
eholders. The p
e Company's w
Chief Executive 
ings with the C
Chairman and t
meetings at whic
ajor investors an
mittee also met
eholders during 
gements and w
ges. The Chairm
eholders regular
eir concerns and
e Board. In add
eption Survey w
oach, valuation,
agement. 
Company’ s AGM
velop further the
ask questions of
ding the Annual 
rally. The Comp
GM and any rela
meeting. All Direc
, the Chairman 
e Group’ s busine
Company gene
pportunity to ca
oxy, either elect
oting results for 
e Company’ s w
Francis, the Se
areholders if the
nels has either f
rica’ s website c
other interested
ars, share price
e investment com
k manageme
Board is respon
isk manageme
e achievement o
am shows som
nd control fram
onducted. The 
t the heart of th
ATE G
shareholder
es and values t
relations and c
ive in obtaining 
of key matters a
back regularly. 
ca hosted pres
preliminary res
xecutive and No
ere made to ins
atives of many o
resentation ma
website. 
and Group Fin
ompany’ s majo
he Senior Indep
ch the annual a
nd analysts. Th
t with a numbe
the year to disc
will further enga
man continues 
rly in order to ga
d key issues an
ition, the Board
which covers st
, business perfo
M provides all s
eir understandin
f the full Board 
Report and the
pany intends to 
ated papers at le
ctors are invited
and the Chief E
ess. A poll is co
eral meetings. A
ast their votes in
tronically or by p
each resolution
website. 
enior Independe
ey have concern
failed to resolve
contains up to d
 parties includin
e information, n
mmunity and in
ent and inte
nsible for the Gr
nt and conside
of the Group’ s s
me of the key ele
mework by whic
work of the Bo
he process. The
OVERN
rs 
the importance 
communication 
an understand
affecting the Gr
entations for th
sults and 2012 
on-Executive D
stitutional invest
of the Group’ s la
aterials are availa
nance Director a
or shareholders
pendent Directo
and interim resu
he Chairman of 
r of the Compa
cuss our remun
age in advance 
to meet major 
ain a first-hand 
nd provides reg
d receives annu
rategy, manage
ormance and b
shareholders wit
ng of the Comp
on the matters 
e running of the
send to shareh
east 20 working
d to attend each
Executive prese
onducted on ea
All shareholders 
n respect of pro
post. Following 
n are published
ent Director, is a
ns that contact
e or is deemed i
date information
ng annual repo
news releases, p
nformation on sh
rnal control
roup’ s system o
ers this to be fun
strategic object
ements in the g
ch Centrica’ s op
oard and its Co
e Board and its 
NANCE
of maintaining
programme.
ding of shareho
roup and receiv
he announceme
interim results. 
Directors, 
tors and analys
argest 
able  
also held regula
s during the yea
or attended 
ults were presen
the Remunerat
any’ s major 
neration 
of any future 
institutional 
understanding
gular updates
ually an Investor
ement, investm
balance sheet 
th the opportun
pany. Sharehold
put to the mee
e Company 
holders the Noti
g days before
h AGM. At the 
ent a review 
ach resolution
also have 
oposed resolutio
the AGM, 
and are availab
available 
through the no
inappropriate.
n for shareholde
rts, shareholde
presentations
hareholder serv
l 
of internal contr
ndamental 
tives. The follow
governance, 
perations 
mmittees 
Committees se
E REPO
lder 
ves 
ent 
sts, 
ar 
ar. 
nted 
tion 
g 
r 
ment 
nity 
ders 
eting, 
ice 
ons 
ble 
ormal 
ers 
er 
vices. 
rol 
wing 
et  
objecti
a balan
the Gro
of the 
is unde
and pr
a set o
to Cen
that bo
and th
effectiv
perform
Lastly, 
is asse
of inde
is desi
As with
rather 
and ca
agains
Details
in page
Centric
2012 t
 orga
cont
app
to ev
 the d
struc
be u
plan
 the f
with
regis
ORT CO
ives, performan
nced and trans
oup’ s operation
key controls in 
erpinned by cle
rocedures cove
of business prin
ntrica’ s staff. In a
oth strategic an
at the controls 
vely. These mec
mance manage
it is important t
essed impartiall
ependent review
gned to cover t
h any such syst
than eliminate t
an provide only 
st material misst
s of the Group’s
es 44 to 50 of t
ca’ s risk manag
the following im
anisational chan
trols and audit f
roach to our ris
volve during 20
development a
ctured approac
used to drive a 
nning activities;
focus on High I
 all business un
sters for the Gro
ONTINU
nce targets and
sparent assessm
ns and to meas
place to manag
ear delegations 
ering key areas 
ciples and proc
addition, mech
nd operational r
designed to m
chanisms are re
ement and busi
that the effectiv
y. There is, ther
ws by the intern
the key process
tem, the proces
the risk of failur
reasonable, an
tatement or los
s principal risks 
the Business R
gement process
mprovements we
nges including a
functions to fac
sk and assuranc
013;  
nd roll out of a 
ch to risk identif
greater risk bas
mpact Low Pro
nits updating an
oup’ s considera
UED 
d policies desig
ment of the risk
sure the effectiv
age them. The w
of authority, eff
of Group opera
cesses which a
hanisms are in p
risks are identifi
manage such ris
einforced throu
siness reviews. 
veness of the fra
refore, a progra
nal audit functio
ses and risks. 
esses are design
re to achieve th
nd not absolute
ss. 
and uncertaint
Review. 
ses continue to
were implemente
aligning a numb
cilitate a more in
ce activities. Th
risk universe, a
fication which w
sed approach t
obability (HILP) 
nd expanding u
ation;   
ned to achieve
ks facing 
veness 
work of the Boa
fective policies
ation together w
are communica
place to ensure 
ed and assesse
ks are operatin
gh regular 
amework 
amme 
on which 
ned to manage
e objectives 
e, assurance 
ties are set out
o evolve and du
ed: 
ber of our risk, 
ntegrated 
his will continue
allowing for a m
will eventually
to our audit 
risk identificatio
upon their HILP
ard 
with 
ated 
ed 
ng 
e 
uring 
e 
more 
on, 
P 
2012 d developments s 
Relations with shareholders 
The Board recognises and values the importance of maintaining 
an effective investor relations and communication programme. 
The Board is proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder 
views on a number of key matters affecting the Group and receives 
formal investor feedback regularly. 
During 2012, Centrica hosted presentations for the announcement 
of the Group’ s 2011 preliminary results and 2012 interim results. 
Attended by both Executive and Non-Executive Directors, 
the presentations were made to institutional investors and analysts, 
including representatives of many of the Group’ s largest 
shareholders. The presentation materials are available  
on the Company's website. 
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director also held regular 
meetings with the Company’ s major shareholders during the year. 
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director attended 
the meetings at which the annual and interim results were presented 
to major investors and analysts. The Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee also met with a number of the Company’ s major 
shareholders during the year to discuss our remuneration 
arrangements and will further engage in advance of any future 
changes. The Chairman continues to meet major institutional 
shareholders regularly in order to gain a first-hand understanding 
of their concerns and key issues and provides regular updates 
to the Board. In addition, the Board receives annually an Investor 
Perception Survey which covers strategy, management, investment 
approach, valuation, business performance and balance sheet 
management. 
The Company’ s AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity 
to develop further their understanding of the Company. Shareholders 
can ask questions of the full Board on the matters put to the meeting, 
including the Annual Report and the running of the Company 
generally. The Company intends to send to shareholders the Notice 
of AGM and any related papers at least 20 working days before 
the meeting. All Directors are invited to attend each AGM. At the 
AGM, the Chairman and the Chief Executive present a review 
of the Group’ s business. A poll is conducted on each resolution 
at all Company general meetings. All shareholders also have 
the opportunity to cast their votes in respect of proposed resolutions 
by proxy, either electronically or by post. Following the AGM, 
the voting results for each resolution are published and are available 
on the Company’ s website. 
Mary Francis, the Senior Independent Director, is available 
to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal 
channels has either failed to resolve or is deemed inappropriate. 
Centrica’ s website contains up to date information for shareholders 
and other interested parties including annual reports, shareholder 
circulars, share price information, news releases, presentations 
to the investment community and information on shareholder services. 
Risk management and internal control 
The Board is responsible for the Group’ s system of internal control 
and risk management and considers this to be fundamental 
to the achievement of the Group’ s strategic objectives. The following 
diagram shows some of the key elements in the governance, 
risk and control framework by which Centrica’ s operations 
are conducted. The work of the Board and its Committees 
are at the heart of the process. The Board and its Committees set  
 
objectives, performance targets and policies designed to achieve 
a balanced and transparent assessment of the risks facing 
the Group’ s operations and to measure the effectiveness 
of the key controls in place to manage them. The work of the Board 
is underpinned by clear delegations of authority, effective policies 
and procedures covering key areas of Group operation together with 
a set of business principles and processes which are communicated 
to Centrica’ s staff. In addition, mechanisms are in place to ensure 
that both strategic and operational risks are identified and assessed 
and that the controls designed to manage such risks are operating 
effectively. These mechanisms are reinforced through regular 
performance management and business reviews. 
Lastly, it is important that the effectiveness of the framework 
is assessed impartially. There is, therefore, a programme 
of independent reviews by the internal audit function which 
is designed to cover the key processes and risks. 
As with any such system, the processes are designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the objectives 
and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. 
Details of the Group’ s principal risks and uncertainties are set out 
in pages 44 to 50 of the Business Review. 
2012 developments 
Centrica’ s risk management processes continue to evolve and during 
2012 the following improvements were implemented: 
 organisational changes including aligning a number of our risk, 
controls and audit functions to facilitate a more integrated 
approach to our risk and assurance activities. This will continue 
to evolve during 2013;  
 the development and roll out of a risk universe, allowing for a more 
structured approach to risk identification which will eventually 
be used to drive a greater risk based approach to our audit 
planning activities; 
 the focus on High Impact Low Probability (HILP) risk identification, 
with all business units updating and expanding upon their HILP 
registers for the Group’ s consideration;   
Policies and Procedures
People and Values
Internal Audit
Strategic Planning
Risk Assessment
Delegated Authority
Control Activities
Performance Management
BOARD
AND
COMMITTEES
Governance – Corporate Governance Report
58 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
 
 
 the publishing of a quarterly risk newsletter, covering both internal 
and external events, to identify emerging trends and to stimulate 
debate on changing or emerging risks which may cross over, 
or be related to our current and future activities; 
 the introduction of a risk maturity model to assess the 
effectiveness of our risk processes across the different business 
units. This has enhanced the sharing of best practice amongst 
the risk community and allowed us to focus on mutual areas 
for improvement; and 
 the assessment of the effectiveness of our risk management 
processes, a number of internal and external audits took place. 
These reviews identified a number of areas where we can further 
enhance our risk management activities and these will be 
developed further in 2013. 
Group risk governance structure 
 
 
Group Risk Management Committee 
The Group Risk Management Committee (GRMC) plays a pivotal 
role in the governance of risks. Each of Centrica’ s business units 
has a Business Risk Management Committee or equivalent 
management committee whose role is to evaluate, report and advise 
on material risks and to consider the adequacy of controls and the 
actions planned to mitigate those risks. The most material risks are 
then reported to the GRMC so that it has a clear understanding 
of Centrica’ s aggregate risk profile and can ensure that control 
processes are in place for the monitoring and management of 
significant risks. The Audit Committee has a standing agenda item 
to consider the Group’ s key risks. The GRMC is chaired by the Chief 
Executive and membership reflects that of the Executive Committee. 
In 2012, the GRMC met four times. 
Group Financial Risk Management Committee 
A separate specialised process to manage financial risks is also 
required to achieve adequate levels of control. The role of the Group 
Financial Risk Management Committee (GFRMC) is therefore 
to focus specifically on financial risks as part of the overall risk 
management profile. 
Additional monitoring of the Group’ s financial risks (market, credit, 
liquidity risks and operational risks within the trading operations) 
is performed by local Financial Risk Management Committees 
covering Europe and North America. Material financial risk exposures 
are then reported to the GFRMC for consideration. The GFRMC also 
monitors the design and implementation of financial risk policies 
and compliance with Group-wide financial risk limits and appetite. 
Quarterly overviews of the GFRMC’ s activities are provided 
to the GRMC. 
The GFRMC is chaired by the Group Finance Director and 
membership comprises senior finance and risk personnel. 
The Committee met 12 times in 2012. Further details of the Group’ s 
Financial Risk Management are provided in note 25 to the Financial 
Statements on pages 111 to 114. 
Centrica Controls Board 
The Centrica Controls Board (CCB), whose members are the Group 
Finance Director, the Director of Corporate Finance, the Head 
of Risk, Controls and Audit and finance directors for each business 
unit, is responsible for ensuring that appropriate internal controls  
are in place over key operational and financial reporting processes 
and related IT systems. The CCB met twice in 2012 and is chaired 
by the Group Finance Director. The responsibilities of the CCB are 
discharged through the Centrica Controls Steering Group (CCSG) and 
the Information Risk Steering Group (IRSG). 
The CCSG monitors the risks and associated controls over financial 
reporting processes, including the process by which Centrica’ s 
Group Financial Statements are prepared for publication 
(the consolidation process). The financial reporting controls 
are monitored and maintained through the use of internal control 
frameworks which address key financial reporting risks, including 
risks arising from changes in the business or accounting standards. 
Effectiveness is assessed through quarterly self-certification 
and independent testing of the controls. The CCSG met three times 
during 2012 and is chaired by the Head of Group Financial Controls. 
The IRSG monitors the Group’ s information systems control 
environment, providing robust challenge to the business units 
to ensure that information systems’ risk management remains 
effective and appropriate for the Group. It is also responsible 
for monitoring the progress of key information security projects. 
The IRSG met four times during 2012 and is chaired by the Group 
Head of Information Risk. 
Executive Committee and Audit Committee 
The Group’ s material risks are also reported to the Executive 
Committee which regularly undertakes in depth reviews of specific 
risks as appropriate. 
At each of its meetings in 2012 the Audit Committee received a 
Group risk report, which provided an assessment of the key risks 
facing the Company and the adequacy of the associated controls. 
In addition, the Audit Committee assessed the activity of the Group 
internal audit function including details of findings from reviews 
conducted against a plan which is approved annually by the Audit 
Committee. These reports, supplemented by management 
presentations and discussion with the Audit Committee,  
enable it to track issues, monitor performance and ensure 
that necessary actions are taken to remedy any significant 
failings or weaknesses identified. 
The Company is also aware that the integrity and reputation 
of the Company’ s public financial reporting is of utmost importance. 
In addition to the controls described above, there are a number 
of further processes and steps to provide assurance over  
European &
North American 
Financial Risk 
Management
Committees 
Group
Financial Risk
Management Committee 
Centrica
Controls Board 
Business Risk
Management 
Committees 
Centrica
Controls 
Steering 
Group 
Information
  Risk
Steering
Group
Executive Committee Audit Committee 
Group Risk Management Committee 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Governance – Corporate Governance Report
59 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
CO
 
 
 
the co
report
 rev
 ver
 rev
 rev
Centr
to the
separ
mana
mana
integr
Each 
throug
and c
are as
at the
proce
a wid
of the
with t
inform
The B
the ef
1 Jan
Group
routin
of inte
Goin
After 
that th
resou
future
conce
details
are pr
to 114
Dire
The D
respo
Remu
accor
Comp
for ea
Group
Finan
Union
in acc
Pract
Unde
statem
of the
or los
State
ORPOR
ompleteness an
ting, including: 
iew by membe
rification exercis
iew and recom
iew and approv
rica Storage Lim
e Secretary of S
rately but to the
agement as the
agement proces
rated with those
year, an extens
ghout the Grou
compliance with
ssessed. In 201
e half year and f
ess was enhanc
er coverage of 
e business. The
he conclusions
m the annual as
Board, with the 
ffectiveness of t
nuary 2012 to th
p complies with
nely to challenge
ernal control is c
ng concern 
making enquirie
he parent comp
urces to continu
e. For this reaso
ern basis in pre
s of the Group’
rovided in note 
4. 
ctors’ respo
Directors, who a
onsible for prepa
uneration Repo
rdance with app
pany law requir
ach financial yea
p Financial Stat
cial Reporting S
n (EU) and the p
cordance with U
ice (United King
er company law
ments unless th
e state of affairs
ss of the Group 
ments, the Dire
ATE G
nd accuracy of 
ers of the Execu
ses; 
mmendation by t
val by the Boar
mited, which is 
State for Busine
e same standar
e rest of the Gro
sses of newly-a
e of the Group.
sive process of 
up whereby the
h Group busine
12, the self-cert
full year. During
ced so that it p
key controls af
e results of the a
s of the internal 
ssessment perfo
advice of the A
the system of in
he date of this r
h the T urnbull G
e management 
constantly impr
es, the Board h
pany and the G
ue in operationa
on, the Board c
eparing the Fina
’ s liquidity posit
25 of the Finan
onsibility sta
are named on p
aring the Annua
ort and the Fina
plicable law and
res the Director
ar. Accordingly,
tements in acco
Standards (IFR
parent compan
United Kingdom
gdom Account
w the Directors m
hey are satisfied
s of the Group a
for that period
ectors are requi
OVERN
f Centrica’ s pub
utive Committee
the Audit Comm
rd. 
subject to unde
ess, Innovation 
rds of internal c
oup. The interna
acquired comp
. 
f self-certificatio
e effectiveness o
ess principles an
tification was co
g the year, the s
rovided certifica
ffecting the ope
annual process
reviews by Inte
ormed by the A
Audit Committee
nternal control, f
report and is sat
Guidance. The B
in order to ens
roving and rema
has a reasonab
Group as a who
al existence for 
continues to ado
ancial Statemen
ion and going c
ncial Statement
atement 
pages 152 and
al Report, the D
ncial Statemen
d regulations. 
rs to prepare fin
 the Directors h
ordance with In
S) as adopted 
ny Financial Stat
m Generally Acc
ting Standards 
must not appro
d that they give
and the Compa
. In preparing th
ired to: 
NANCE
blic financial 
e; 
mittee; and 
ertakings given
and Skills, ope
control and risk 
al control and r
anies are also 
on operates 
of internal contr
nd policies 
ompleted both
elf-certification 
ation against
eration 
s, together 
ernal Audit, 
Audit Committe
e, has reviewed
for the period fr
tisfied that the 
Board will contin
ure that the sys
ains fit for purpo
ble expectation
ole has adequat
the foreseeable
opt the going 
nts. Further 
concern review
ts on pages 11
 153, are 
Directors' 
ts in 
nancial stateme
have prepared t
nternational 
by the Europea
tements 
cepted Accoun
and applicable 
ove the financia
e a true and fair 
any and of the p
hese Financial 
E REPO
n 
erates 
risk 
rols 
 
ee. 
d 
rom 
nue 
stem 
ose. 
te 
e 
w 
1 
ents 
the 
an 
nting 
law). 
al 
view 
profit 
 selec
 mak
and 
 state
Acc
depa
com
 prep
unle
cont
The Di
record
transac
the fina
them t
Remun
as rega
Regula
of the 
steps f
Furthe
and int
govern
may d
Each o
on pag
the Gro
in acco
view o
In add
pages 
to 154
of the 
descrip
Discl
Each o
Directo
no rele
are un
to have
audit in
aware 
Indep
PwC h
of the 
separa
and to
be pro
The Di
with ot
approv
Grant
27 Feb
ORT CO
ct suitable acco
ke judgements 
prudent; 
e whether IFRS
ounting Standa
artures disclose
mpany Financial 
pare the Financ
ess it is inapprop
tinue in busines
rectors are resp
s that are suffic
ctions and disc
ancial position o
to ensure that th
neration Report
ards the Group
ation. They are 
Company and 
for the preventio
ermore, the Dire
tegrity of the Co
ning the prepara
iffer from legisla
of the Directors
ges 152 and 15
oup Financial S
ordance with IF
of the assets, lia
ition, they confi
5 to 75, togeth
4, includes a fair
business and t
ption of the prin
osure of inf
of the Directors 
ors’ Report con
evant audit infor
aware and that
e taken as Dire
nformation and
of that informa
pendent aud
have expressed
Company. Upo
ate resolutions t
o authorise the D
oposed at the fo
rectors’ Report
ther disclosures
ved by the Boa
t Dawson 
bruary 2013 
ONTINU
ounting policies 
and accounting
S as adopted by
ards have been
ed and explaine
Statements res
ial Statements 
priate to presum
ss. 
ponsible for kee
cient to show an
close with reaso
of the Compan
he Financial Sta
t comply with th
p Financial State
also responsibl
the Group and
on and detectio
ectors are respo
ompany's webs
ation and disse
ation in other jur
, whose names
53 confirm that,
Statements, wh
FRS as adopted
abilities, financia
rm that the Dire
her with other d
r review of the d
he position of t
ncipal risks and
ormation to
who held office
nfirm that, so fa
rmation of whic
t they have take
ctors to make t
to establish tha
ation. 
ditors 
d their willingnes
on the recomme
to re-appoint th
Directors to det
orthcoming AG
t for the year co
s given on page
ard and signed o
UED 
and then apply
g estimates tha
y the EU and a
n followed, subje
ed in the Group
espectively; and
on the going c
me that the Co
eping adequate
and explain the 
onable accurac
ny and the Grou
atements and t
he Companies 
ements, Article 
le for safeguard
d hence for takin
on of fraud and 
onsible for the m
bsite. Legislation
emination of fina
risdictions. 
s and functions
, to the best of 
hich have been 
d by the EU, giv
al position and p
rectors' Report 
disclosures give
development a
the Group, toge
d uncertainties t
o auditors 
e at the date of
ar as they are aw
ch the Compan
en all steps tha
themselves aw
at the Compan
ss to be re-app
endation of the
hem as the Com
termine their re
GM. 
omprising page
es 152 to 154 h
on its behalf by
y them consisten
at are reasonab
applicable UK 
ect to any mate
p and parent 
d 
oncern basis
mpany will 
e accounting 
Company's 
cy at any time
up and enable 
the Directors' 
Act 2006 and,
4 of the IAS 
ding the assets
ng reasonable 
other irregularit
maintenance
n in the UK 
ancial statemen
s are listed 
their knowledg
prepared 
ve a true and fa
profit of the Gro
contained on 
en on pages 15
nd performanc
ether with a 
that it faces. 
f approval of th
ware, there is
ny’ s auditors 
t they ought 
ware of any relev
ny’ s auditors are
pointed as audit
e Audit Commit
mpany’ s audito
muneration wil
es 5 to 75 toget
have been 
y: 
ntly; 
ble 
erial 
, 
ties. 
nts 
ge 
air 
oup. 
52 
ce 
is 
vant 
e 
tors 
ttee, 
ors 
l 
ther 
Cent
The B
rica Storage a
Board’s review
and other Gro
w of the syste
oup companie
em of internal 
es 
control 
Gener ral Counsel & C Company Sec cretary 
the completeness and accuracy of Centrica’ s public financial 
reporting, including: 
 review by members of the Executive Committee; 
 verification exercises; 
 review and recommendation by the Audit Committee; and 
 review and approval by the Board. 
Centrica Storage and other Group companies 
Centrica Storage Limited, which is subject to undertakings given 
to the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills, operates 
separately but to the same standards of internal control and risk 
management as the rest of the Group. The internal control and risk 
management processes of newly-acquired companies are also 
integrated with those of the Group. 
The Board’s review of the system of internal control 
Each year, an extensive process of self-certification operates 
throughout the Group whereby the effectiveness of internal controls 
and compliance with Group business principles and policies 
are assessed. In 2012, the self-certification was completed both 
at the half year and full year. During the year, the self-certification 
process was enhanced so that it provided certification against 
a wider coverage of key controls affecting the operation 
of the business. The results of the annual process, together 
with the conclusions of the internal reviews by Internal Audit, 
inform the annual assessment performed by the Audit Committee. 
The Board, with the advice of the Audit Committee, has reviewed 
the effectiveness of the system of internal control, for the period from 
1 January 2012 to the date of this report and is satisfied that the 
Group complies with the T urnbull Guidance. The Board will continue 
routinely to challenge management in order to ensure that the system 
of internal control is constantly improving and remains fit for purpose. 
Going concern 
After making enquiries, the Board has a reasonable expectation 
that the parent company and the Group as a whole has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. For this reason, the Board continues to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements. Further 
details of the Group’ s liquidity position and going concern review 
are provided in note 25 of the Financial Statements on pages 111 
to 114. 
Directors’ responsibility statement 
The Directors, who are named on pages 152 and 153, are 
responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors' 
Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Accordingly, the Directors have prepared the 
Group Financial Statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European 
Union (EU) and the parent company Financial Statements 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). 
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit 
or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing these Financial 
Statements, the Directors are required to: 
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
 make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; 
 state whether IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable UK 
Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent 
company Financial Statements respectively; and 
 prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company's 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors' 
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
Furthermore, the Directors are responsible for the maintenance 
and integrity of the Company's website. Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements 
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed 
on pages 152 and 153 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge 
the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group. 
In addition, they confirm that the Directors' Report contained on 
pages 5 to 75, together with other disclosures given on pages 152 
to 154, includes a fair review of the development and performance 
of the business and the position of the Group, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces. 
Disclosure of information to auditors 
Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is 
no relevant audit information of which the Company’ s auditors 
are unaware and that they have taken all steps that they ought 
to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’ s auditors are 
aware of that information. 
Independent auditors 
PwC have expressed their willingness to be re-appointed as auditors 
of the Company. Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, 
separate resolutions to re-appoint them as the Company’ s auditors 
and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will 
be proposed at the forthcoming AGM. 
The Directors’ Report for the year comprising pages 5 to 75 together 
with other disclosures given on pages 152 to 154 have been 
approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: 
 
Grant Dawson 
General Counsel & Company Secretary 
27 February 2013 
Governance – Corporate Governance Report
60 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
REMUNERATION REPORT 
“ THE COMMITTEE AIMS TO PROVIDE 
CLEAR, TRANSPARENT REPORTING 
OF PERFORMANCE AND RESULTING 
REMUNERATION.” 
Lesley Knox
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
 
On behalf of the Board I am pleased 
to present the Remuneration 
Committee’s report for 2012.  
The report has been designed to move towards the new 
requirements for remuneration reporting, as proposed 
by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) 
as part of their consultation process, and also to comply 
with existing requirements. 
As we move towards separate votes on remuneration policy 
and the implementation of that policy, as required by the proposed 
new rules, we will look to segment the report so that 
it is clear which aspects shareholders will be asked to approve. 
This year we have included a two page quick view summary 
of performance targets, outcomes, total remuneration opportunity 
and total remuneration received in 2012 for Executive Directors, 
together with the prior year for comparison purposes. The 
Committee aims to provide clear, transparent reporting of 
performance and resulting remuneration and believes that 
this report meets that objective. 
As noted in the 2011 Remuneration Report, during the first 
quarter of 2012, the Committee adjusted the measurement 
and weighting of the key performance drivers within the existing 
incentive arrangements. We also introduced a formal mechanism 
for clawback of deferred rewards if it is subsequently discovered 
that results have been achieved by behaviour which fails to reflect 
the governance and values of the business. We have engaged 
with a number of shareholders during the year on our remuneration 
arrangements and remain committed to holding early discussions 
with shareholders in advance of any future changes. 
T otal variable earnings opportunity in 2012 remained unchanged 
from last year and the performance targets were both stretching 
and aligned with the Group’ s strategic objectives. The key 
performance drivers are based on simple measures and the 
arrangements require substantial deferral of short-term reward. 
As we move forward the Committee intends to continue to strive 
for greater simplicity and transparency , to ensure alignment 
between the Group’ s strategic direction and the measures of 
performance, and to maintain a responsible approach to both fixed 
and variable remuneration, which respects both the social climate 
in which we operate and the demands of our business model.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
MORE INFORMATION 
 
 
 
For more information go online at centrica.com 
Governance – Remuneration Report
61 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
REMUNERATION SUMMARY 
Combined short-term and long-term incentive performance 2012 
The charts below set out for each Executive Director the measures and their weighting (inner circle) and the performance achieved (outer 
circle) for both the short-term (Annual Incentive Scheme) and long-term (Long T erm Incentive Scheme and Deferred and Matching Share 
Scheme) incentive arrangements operated during the year. 
Short-term incentive targets
Sam Laidlaw Phil Bentley For Group economic proﬁt (EP), 
adjusted operating proﬁt of 
£2,892m less tax and a capital 
charge was required for 50% 
achievement and £3,197m 
for 100%.
For British Gas EP, adjusted 
operating proﬁt of £1,063m less 
tax and a capital charge was 
required for 50% achievement 
and £1,179m for 100%.
For Centrica Energy EP, 
adjusted operating proﬁt of 
£1,404m less tax and a capital 
charge was required for 50% 
achievement and £1,625m 
for 100%.
For Direct Energy EP, adjusted 
operating proﬁt of C$513m less 
tax and a capital charge was 
required for 50% achievement 
and C$568m for 100%.
Mark Hanaﬁn
Group EP 62% achieved
Centrica Energy EP 49.5% achieved
Strategic priorities 47.5% achieved
Nick Luff Chris Weston
75% 30%
70%
62%
Group EP 62% achieved
Strategic priorities 75% achieved
Group EP 62% achieved
British Gas EP 79% achieved
Strategic priorities 55% achieved
55% 30%
40%
79%
30%
62%
Group EP 62% achieved
Strategic priorities 58% achieved
58% 30% 70% 62%
75% 30%
30%
62%
40%
95.5%
Group EP 62% achieved
Direct Energy EP 95.5% achieved
Strategic priorities 75% achieved
47 .5% 30%
30%
62%
49.5%
40%
Long-term incentive targets 
Sam Laidlaw Phil Bentley, Mark Hanaﬁn, Nick Luff, Chris Weston For Group EP 25% growth 
above 2009 actual was required 
for 100% achievement.
For Group earnings per share 
(EPS) a minimum growth of RPI 
+9% was required.
For total shareholder return 
(TSR) out-performance of 
the FTSE 100 Index by 0.1% 
per annum was required for
25% achievement and 7% 
per annum for 100%.
Group EP 100% achieved
EPS 0% achieved 
TSR (relative) 75% achieved
75% 28.6%
28.6%
42.8% 100%
75% 26.3%
26.3%
47.4% 100%
Group EP 100% achieved 
EPS 0% achieved 
TSR (relative) 75% achieved
Governance – Remuneration Report
62 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
 
Maximum total remuneration opportunity and total remuneration received in 2012  
The chart below sets out the total remuneration received for the year for each Executive Director, prepared on the same basis as set out in the 
table on page 70. In addition, for comparison purposes, the chart provides an indication of minimum, on-target and maximum total 
remuneration, prepared on the same basis, other than to exclude share price movements, together with the total remuneration received for 
the prior year. Dividends accruing to share awards or received as a shareholder are not included. 
 
2012 Cash flow distribution to stakeholders 
The Committee monitors the relationship between the Directors’ total 
remuneration and cash outflows to other stakeholders.  
As demonstrated by the chart below, the Directors’ aggregate total 
remuneration for the year equates to 0.16% (2011: 0.15%) of 
the Group’ s operating cashflow. 
 
 
A further c.£700m of investment was funded from borrowing 
and other sources rather than from operating cashflows. 
TSR vs CEO remuneration 
Sam Laidlaw was appointed in July 2006. His total remuneration 
from 2009, the first year of full remuneration including vested long-
term incentive plans, is shown in the chart below. 
 
 
31 December 2007 = 100 
 
Opportunity
Sam Laidlaw
Phil Bentley
Mark Hanaﬁn
Nick Luff
Chris Weston
2011
2012
Opportunity
2011
2012
Opportunity
2011
2012
Opportunity
2011
2012
Opportunity
2011
2012
Fixed
remuneration
Short-term
incentive
Long-term
incentive
0 1,000 2,000 3,000
£’000
4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000
Minimum total pay On-target total pay Maximum total pay
Minimum total pay On-target total pay Maximum total pay
Minimum 
total pay
Minimum 
total pay
On-target total pay Maximum total pay
On-target total pay Maximum total pay
Minimum total pay On-target total pay Maximum total pay
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
90
110
130
70 £4m
£5m
£6m
£7m
Total return indices – Centrica, FTSE 100 and CEO total pay
Comparison of overall Company performance and CEO pay
FTSE 100 return index Centrica return index CEO total pay
Source: Alithos Limited (with the exception of CEO total pay)
0.16%
to
Directors
21%
to
taxation
16%
to
shareholders
38% to
investing
activities
25%
to staff
Governance – Remuneration Report
63 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
REMUNERATION STATEMENT CONTINUED 
The total remuneration package 
The core design of the total remuneration package for Executive Directors ensures that a substantial portion of the maximum opportunity 
is dependent upon performance as indicated below. 
 
 
Summary of remuneration elements for Executive Directors 
Element Opportunity Objective and link to strategy Current performance measures Changes for 2013 
Base pay 
Salaries are reviewed annually, 
taking account of performance, 
market conditions and pay in 
the Group as a whole. Current 
salaries were originally set in 
2010. 
Reflects the role and sustained value of the 
individual in terms of skills, experience and 
contribution. 
Not applicable. Base salaries will be 
reviewed during the 
course of 2013. 
Retirement 
benefits (i) 
(see pages 
69 and 74) 
Executive Directors are entitled to 
participate in a Centrica pension 
arrangement or to receive a salary 
supplement in lieu of pension of 
40% of base pay. 
Positioned to ensure broad competitiveness 
with market practice. 
Not applicable. No change. 
Other 
benefits  
 
Entitlements include car or car 
allowance, life assurance 
premiums, medical benefits and 
financial advice. Benefits are 
subject to financial limits as set 
out in appropriate policies. All 
taxable benefits are included in 
the table on page 70. 
Positioned to ensure broad competitiveness 
with market practice. 
Not applicable. No change. 
Annual 
Incentive 
Scheme 
(AIS) 
(see below 
and page 
62) 
Chief Executive 
0 – 180% of base pay. 
 
Other Executive Directors 
0 – 150% of base pay. 
 
Half the maximum is payable for 
on-target performance. 
Designed to reward the delivery of key strategic 
priorities for the year. 
These priorities position the Group well for 
strong future performance, reinforcing the 
importance of balancing growth with economic 
profit returns in a business which is more 
vertically integrated and capital intensive. 
If overall business performance is not deemed 
satisfactory, the individual’s bonus for the year 
may be reduced or forfeited, at the discretion of 
the Committee. 
70% based on EP
(ii)
. 
30% based on strategic objectives aligned to 
business priorities. 
No change. 
Deferred 
and 
Matching 
Share 
Scheme 
(DMSS) 
(see pages 
62 and 73) 
Mandatory deferral of 40% 
of AIS award for Chief Executive 
and 30% for other Executive 
Directors.  
Additional deferral opportunity to 
take the total deferral up to 50% 
of maximum bonus opportunity. 
Up to two matching shares for 
each deferred share subject to 
performance over three years. 
Assists with employee retention and incentivises 
an appropriate balance between short-term 
performance and long-term value creation for 
shareholders. 
Encourages sustainable high performance and 
discourages peaks and troughs. 
All deferred awards can be clawed back if it is 
subsequently discovered that the results have 
been achieved by behaviour which fails to reflect 
the governance and values of the business. 
Absolute aggregate EP
(ii)
 over the performance 
period: minimum £2.6bn and maximum £3.4bn 
provides one or two matching shares 
respectively. Where performance falls between 
stated points, vesting is calculated on a straight 
line basis. 
No change. 
Long Term 
Incentive 
Scheme 
(LTIS) 
(see pages 
62, 71 and 
72) 
Up to 200% of base pay. Provides a direct link between remuneration and 
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
 (iv)
, reinforcing 
the desire for sustainable high performance over 
the long-term. 
If overall performance is not deemed 
satisfactory, the award for any year may be 
reduced or forfeited, at the discretion of the 
Committee. 
35% based on EPS
(iii)
 with 25% vesting for 
achieving growth of RPI +9% and full vesting 
requiring RPI +30%.  
35% based on absolute aggregate EP
 (ii)
 over 
performance period with 25% vesting for 
achieving £2.6bn and full vesting requiring 
£3.4bn. 
30% based on non-financial KPI dashboard
 (iv)
. 
TSR
 (v)
 performance against the FTSE 100 Index 
acting as a positive or negative multiplier: 0.667x 
multiple for Index -7% per annum and 1.5x 
multiple for Index +7% per annum capped at the 
face value of the award. 
Where performance falls between stated points, 
vesting is calculated on a straight line basis. 
No change. 
 
 
RE EMUNE ERATIO ON POL LICY 
CEO
Other Executive Directors
Fixed remuneration
Fixed remuneration
Short-term incentive
Short-term incentive
Long-term incentive
Long-term incentive
0% 10%20% 30%40% 50%60% 70%80% 90%100%
Governance – Remuneration Report
64 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
 
Centrica Pension Plan (CPP) 
The CPP is a funded, HMRC-registered, final salary, contributory occupational pension scheme. Members’ contributions are payable 
at the rate of 6% of pensionable earnings. Contributions made by the Executive Directors who are also members of the Centrica Unfunded 
Pension Scheme (CUPS) are payable at the rate of 6% of their total pensionable earnings above the scheme earnings cap. 
No discretionary practices are taken into account in calculating transfer values. 
Centrica Unfunded Pension Scheme (CUPS) 
All registered scheme benefits are subject to HMRC guidelines and the Lifetime Allowance. The CUPS defined benefit section provides 
any additional benefits in excess of the maximum amount that could be provided through the CPP on the members’ uncapped pensionable 
earnings. Pensionable pay increases are limited to pay reviews up to a maximum of 2% per annum with effect from 1 March 2012 
for members of the CPP and CUPS defined benefit section.  
The CUPS defined benefit section was closed to new members in October 2002. The CUPS defined contribution section provides benefits 
for individuals not eligible to join the CUPS defined benefit section and for whom registered scheme benefits are expected to exceed 
the Lifetime Allowance. The CUPS defined contribution section is offered as a direct alternative to a cash salary supplement.  
CUPS is unfunded but the benefits are secured by a charge over certain Centrica assets. An appropriate provision in respect of the accrued 
value of these benefits has been made in the Company’ s balance sheet. 
EP is adjusted operating profit (after share of joint venture interest) less a tax charge based on the tax rate relevant to the different business 
segments and after deduction of a capital charge. The capital charge is calculated as capital employed multiplied by the Group’ s weighted 
average cost of capital. 
Where appropriate, expenditure on assets (and related costs) that are not yet in use (pre-productive capital) is excluded from capital 
employed. The absolute target range has been set in the context of increasing capital intensity and a significantly higher taxation environment 
for upstream profits driven by UK policy and geographic expansion.  
EPS is the Company’ s fully diluted earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and certain re-measurements. 
The non-financial KPI dashboard is designed to reward sustained high performance over the entire three-year performance period. The 
measures are: 
 lost time injury frequency rate; 
 process safety; 
 British Gas Net Promoter Score (NPS); 
 Direct Energy NPS; and 
 employee engagement. 
For each measure three performance zones have been established, represented by the following indicators: 
 High performance zone 
 Median performance zone 
 Low performance zone 
The detail for 2012 is shown on page 72. 
TSR is calculated as the annualised percentage increase in the Net Return Index of the Company above the Net Return Index 
of the FTSE 100 over the three-year performance period. The Net Return Index reflects movements in the share price and dividends 
re-invested over the performance period. In the opinion of the Directors, the FTSE 100 is the most appropriate index against which the TSR of 
Centrica plc should be measured as it is an index of similar sized companies. 
 
 
  
(i) Retirement benefits 
(ii) Economic profit (EP) 
(iii) Earnings per share (EPS) 
(iv) Non-financial KPIs 

(v) Total shareholder return (TSR) 
Governance – Remuneration Report
65 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
REMUNERATION POLICY 
Executive Directors’ remuneration 
The Remuneration Committee believes that our remuneration 
arrangements appropriately incentivise and reward shareholder 
value creation but do not encourage excessive risk taking. 
The following sections outline the approach and framework 
relating to the remuneration of the executives with effect 
from 1 January 2012. 
The Committee believes alignment between Centrica's business 
strategy and executive remuneration is essential and therefore 
ensures that: 
 remuneration comprises competitive fixed elements, to retain 
high quality talent without excessive cost to the business; 
 a significant proportion of total remuneration depends on delivering 
business performance in line with the strategic priorities. Individuals 
are rewarded for good performance against stretching targets; 
 short-term incentives focus on delivery against individual 
strategically-aligned performance measures. These include 
demanding financial and non-financial business-related objectives. 
A significant proportion of short-term incentives are required 
to be deferred, as outlined on page 64; and 
 longer-term incentives are linked to, and reward, returns 
to shareholders over a three to four-year period. 
The KPIs, which are set out in detail on pages 18 and 19, underpin 
the selection of performance criteria used within the incentive 
arrangements as demonstrated in the table below. If overall 
performance is not deemed satisfactory, the award for any 
year may be reduced or forfeited, at the discretion of the Committee. 
KPI Performance measure 
Adjusted operating profit EP – 1 year EP – 3 year 
EPS EPS 
TSR TSR 
Dividend per share TSR 
Lost time injury frequency rate Non-financial KPI dashboard 
Process safety Non-financial KPI dashboard 
Customer trust Non-financial KPI dashboard 
Employee engagement Non-financial KPI dashboard 
 
The remuneration policy aims to deliver a remuneration package: 
 to attract and retain high quality executives in a challenging 
and competitive business environment; 
 that delivers an appropriate balance between fixed and variable 
compensation for each executive; 
 which places a strong emphasis on performance, both short 
and long term; 
 that strongly aligns achievement of strategic objectives and the 
delivery of sustainable value to shareholders; and  
 that seeks to avoid creating excessive risks in the achievement 
of performance targets. 
The remuneration framework reflects current best practice, including 
the provisions on the design of performance-related remuneration 
as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code): 
 the Committee reviews the packages and varies individual 
elements, when appropriate, from year-to-year; 
 the potential maximum remuneration that executives could receive 
is of key interest when agreeing the level of base pay and the 
performance related elements of the remuneration package; 
 the Committee takes account of, and is sensitive to, employment 
conditions throughout the Group and the current economic 
climate as a whole; 
 benchmarking looks at a UK cross-industry comparator group of 
companies of similar size and complexity; 
 the Annual Incentive Scheme (AIS) is designed to incentivise 
and reward the achievement of demanding financial and business-
related objectives;  
 long-term share-based incentives are designed to align 
the interests of the executives with the longer-term interests 
of our shareholders, by rewarding delivery of sustained, increased 
shareholder value;  
 the Committee considers the aggregate impact of remuneration 
on the financial standing of the Group; 
 the Committee carefully considers compensation commitments in 
the event of a director's termination. The aim is to avoid rewarding 
poor performance and to reduce compensation to reflect the 
departing directors' obligations to mitigate loss; and 
 minimum shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors are in 
place and were last reviewed during 2012 to align with emerging 
investor preference. 
 
How reward aligns with our strategic priorities 
How reward aligns with our KPIs 
Remuneration framework 
Governance – Remuneration Report
66 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
 
Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in the Company's 
HMRC-approved Sharesave Scheme and Share Incentive Plan, 
which are open to all eligible UK employees on the same basis, 
providing a long-term saving and investment opportunity. 
The Company may satisfy the requirements of its share schemes 
either by acquiring shares in the market or, subject to institutional 
guidelines, issuing new shares or using shares held in treasury. 
Pay and employment conditions across the Group are taken 
into account when setting the remuneration of the executives. 
The Group operates in a number of different environments and 
has many employees who carry out diverse roles across a number 
of countries. All employees, including executives, are paid by 
reference to the market rate and base pay is reviewed annually. 
A number of performance-related bonus schemes and all-employee 
share plans are operated across the Group.  
Business unit performance measures are cascaded down through 
the organisation and Group employment conditions include high 
standards of health and safety and equal opportunities. 
The Executive Directors' service contracts expire on their 65th 
birthday, with the exception of Phil Bentley for whom three months' 
notice must be served by either party following his 65th birthday. 
Service contracts provide that either the Director or the Company 
may terminate the employment by giving one year's written notice 
and that the Company may pay compensation in lieu of notice.  
On a change of control, conditional awards and nil-cost options 
under DMSS and LTIS will vest to the extent that the performance 
conditions will have been met at the vesting date and be pro-rated 
for the time elapsed since the start of each performance period, 
until the vesting date, subject to the overriding discretion 
of the Committee. 
The Committee retains a level of flexibility, as permitted by the Code, 
in order to attract and retain suitable candidates. It reserves the right 
to offer contracts which contain an initial notice period in excess of 
one year, provided that at the end of the first such period the notice 
period reduces to one year. 
It is the Company's policy to allow each Executive Director to accept 
one non-executive directorship of another company, although 
the Board retains the discretion to vary this policy. 
Fees received in respect of external appointments are retained 
by the individual Director. 
Minimum shareholding guidelines are in place for Executive Directors 
and senior executives to build and maintain a value of shares 
as follows: 
 Chief Executive - 2 times base salary; 
 other Executive Directors - 1.25 times base salary; and 
 senior executives - 1 times base salary. 
In addition to the guidelines above, for awards made after 
1 January 2011, the guidelines now provide that all transferred 
shares under the Group’ s long-term incentive arrangements 
be retained for a minimum period of five years from the original award 
or grant date. 
The executives have achieved, and in some cases materially 
exceeded, their minimum shareholding guidelines. 
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration 
Centrica’ s policy on Non-Executive Directors’ fees takes into account 
the need to attract high-quality individuals, their responsibilities, 
time commitment and market practice. 
The fee levels for the Chairman are reviewed every two years 
by the Remuneration Committee. The fee levels of the Non- 
Executive Directors are reviewed and approved every two 
years by the Executive Committee. 
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman,  
do not participate in any of the Company’ s share schemes, 
incentive plans or pension schemes. 
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, do not have 
service contracts. Their appointments are subject to the Articles 
of Association and the dates they joined the Board are shown 
on pages 152 and 153. Sir Roger Carr’ s letter of appointment 
contains a six-month notice period and his fees are reviewed 
and approved by the Committee.  
 
  
All-employee share schemes 
Funding of share schemes 
Pay and conditions across the Group 
Service contracts 
External appointments of Executive Directors 
Shareholding guidelines 
Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors 
Fees 
Terms of appointment 
Governance – Remuneration Report
67 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
REMUNERATION STATEMENT 
This Statement sets out information 
on the remuneration of the Directors 
for the financial year ended  
31 December 2012. 
 
The Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee (the Committee) firmly believes 
that Centrica’ s remuneration is and will remain in compliance 
with the principles of the Code and this Report outlines how the 
Company has applied the principles that relate to Directors’ 
remuneration. 
The role and membership of the Committee is set out in the 
Governance Report on page 56, together with the key issues 
reviewed by the Committee during 2012. In 2012, the Committee 
had access to the advice and views of: 
 the Group Director, Human Resources; 
 the Group Reward Director; 
 the Chief Executive; 
 the General Counsel & Company Secretary; and 
 Deloitte LLP (Deloitte), independent external advisers 
to the Committee. 
Deloitte also provide a number of consulting services throughout the 
Group. The Committee takes into account the Remuneration 
Consultants Group’ s Code of Conduct when dealing with its 
advisers. The Committee is satisfied with the performance of Deloitte, 
who were appointed in 2011, and has determined that it is not 
necessary to seek a tender for the services currently provided. 
At the Centrica Annual General Meeting held on 11 May 2012, 
shareholders approved the Remuneration Report for the year 
ended 31 December 2011. Below is the result in respect 
of the resolution, which required a simple majority (i.e. 50%) 
of the votes cast to be in favour in order for the resolution 
to be passed: 
Votes for % Votes against %
2,687,947,000 88.09 363,374,799 11.91
 
155,878,917 votes were withheld 
 
A full schedule in respect of shareholder voting on the above and 
all resolutions at the 2012 Annual General Meeting is available on 
the Centrica website at centrica.com. 
Executive Directors’ remuneration 
There were no increases in Executive Directors’ base pay in 2012, 
thus maintaining the levels originally set in 2010. Base salaries will 
be reviewed during the course of 2013. 
The total emoluments of the two senior executives who served 
during 2012, calculated on the same basis as the emoluments of the 
Executive Directors detailed on page 70, fell into the following bands: 
Bands £000 Number of executives 
1,500 – 1,999 1 
1,000 – 1,499 0 
500 – 999 1 
 
In 2012, Sam Laidlaw received £125,000 (2011: £125,000) as a 
non-executive director of HSBC Holdings plc and has waived his 
right to receive a fee for his role as the lead non-executive director 
of the Department of Transport. 
In October 2012, Phil Bentley was appointed as a non-executive 
director of IMI plc and received £13,125. 
 Outstanding ESOS options held by Chris Weston were granted 
on 18 March 2004, 1 April 2005 and 3 April 2006. 
 No options have been granted under the ESOS since 2006. 
 The performance criteria have now been met in respect of all 
of the outstanding grants under ESOS and Chris Weston has 
a 10 year period from each date of grant during which he can 
exercise his options. 
 Outstanding SESOS options held by Mark Hanafin were granted 
on 26 September 2008.  
 The grant is not subject to any performance conditions and 
Mark Hanafin has a 10 year period from the date of grant during 
which he can exercise his options. 
  
2012 Voting 
Base pay  
Emoluments of the senior executives 
External appointments of Executive Directors 
Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) 
Special Executive Share Option Scheme (SESOS) 
Governance – Remuneration Report
68 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
 
 Nil-cost options were granted to the Executive Directors in respect 
to LTIS and DMSS matching awards, excluding Chris Weston, 
on 6 April 2010, 4 April 2011 and 4 April 2012 and are disclosed 
on pages 71 and 73. 
 Grants under LTIS are subject to EP , EPS, non-financial KPIs and 
TSR as outlined on pages 64 and 65. 
 Grants under DMSS are subject to EP performance 
as outlined on pages 64 and 65. 
 Recipients have a 10 year period from each date of grant during 
which to exercise any such options that may vest. 
 Once vested, LTIS and DMSS matching nil-cost options 
will be disclosed in the table detailing Directors’ interests 
in share options on page 73. 
Outstanding Sharesave options held by the Executive Directors 
were granted on 3 April 2008, 6 April 2010 and 30 March 2012. 
During 2012, new issue shares were used to satisfy the release 
of shares or exercise of options under DMSS, LTIS, ESOS, 
Sharesave and SIP . Market purchased shares, held in trust, were 
used to satisfy outstanding allocations under DMSS (deferred and 
investment shares), the Restricted Share Scheme and the Deferred 
Bonus Plan. There are no shares currently held in treasury, 
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. 
The closing price of a Centrica ordinary share on the last trading 
day of 2012, which was 31 December 2012, was 333.60 pence. 
The range during the year was 280.50 pence to 341.30 pence. 
Phil Bentley and Chris Weston participate in the CPP , a contributory 
final salary arrangement, and in the CUPS defined benefit (DB) 
section. Full disclosure of the pension arrangements for Phil Bentley 
and Chris Weston is given on page 74. 
As previously reported, under the terms of his contract of 
employment, following completion of the appropriate qualifying 
period which ended on 14 January 2012, Phil Bentley is now 
entitled to draw his pension on an unreduced basis with effect 
from his 58th birthday. 
Sam Laidlaw, Mark Hanafin and Nick Luff are entitled to receive 
a salary supplement of 40% of base pay, or participate in the CUPS 
defined contribution (DC) section. During the year, the three 
Executive Directors were invited to, and decided to participate in, 
the CUPS DC section and received an unfunded promise equal 
to 11.1% of base pay. Consequently, a salary supplement equal 
to 28.9% of base pay was paid in cash directly to each individual 
and is disclosed within the Directors’ emoluments table on page 70. 
No termination payments were made during 2012 (2011: £nil). 
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration 
The annual fees payable to the Chairman and Non-Executive 
Directors are set out in the table below. 
Base fees 2012 
Chairman  £490,000 
Non-Executive Directors £65,000 
Additional fees  
Chairman of Audit Committee  £23,000 
Chairman of Remuneration Committee  £20,000 
Chairman of Corporate Responsibility Committee  £20,000 
Senior Independent Director  £20,000 
 
The fee levels for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors 
were reviewed and increased in May 2010. There were no increases 
in fee levels for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors in 
2012. 
Statutory disclosures 
The Company’ s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , 
have audited from this point until the end of the Remuneration 
Statement on page 75, with the exception of the TSR charts 
on page 72. 
 
LTIS and DMSS options  
Sharesave Scheme 
Funding of share schemes in 2012 
Share Price 
Pension and other benefits 
Termination payments 
Non-Executive fees 
Audit requirements 
Governance – Remuneration Report
69 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
REMUNERATION STATEMENT CONTINUED 
Remuneration tables 
  
Base pay/fees
£000
Cash payments in 
lieu of pension and 
contributions to 
DB plans 
£000 (i) 
Benefits and 
other cash
£000 (ii)
Cash AIS
£000
Deferred AIS
£000 (iii)
Long-term 
incentives 
(LTIS and DMSS 
matching) 
£000 (iv) 
Total 
remuneration 
2012
£000 (v)
Total 
remuneration 
2011 restated
£000 (vi)
Chief Executive    
Sam Laidlaw  950 285 71 185 855 2,613 4,959 4,967
Executive Directors    
Phil Bentley  635 225 46 635 – 1,549 3,090 2,064
Mark Hanafin  575 173 35 23 431 1,358 2,595 2,778
Nick Luff  610 183 21 145 458 1,437 2,854 2,840
Chris Weston  510 167 403 224 383 1,254 2,941 2,798
  3,280 1,033 576 1,212 2,127 8,211 16,439 15,447
Chairman and 
Non-Executive Directors  963 – – – – – 963 963
Total remuneration  4,243 1,033 576 1,212 2,127 8,211 17,402 16,410
 
 
  
Base pay/fees 
£000 
Cash payments in 
lieu of pension 
£000 (i)
Benefits and
other cash
£000 (ii)
Cash AIS
£000
Deferred AIS 
£000 (iii) 
Total 
emoluments  
2012 
£000 (v) 
Total emoluments 
2011 restated
 £000 (vii)
Chief Executive     
Sam Laidlaw  950 285 71 185 855 2,346 2,241
Executive Directors     
Phil Bentley  635 – 46 635 – 1,316 1,166
Mark Hanafin  575 173 35 23 431 1,237 1,430
Nick Luff  610 183 21 145 458 1,417 1,398
Chris Weston  510 – 403 224 383 1,520 1,574
  3,280 641 576 1,212 2,127 7,836 7,809
Chairman     
Sir Roger Carr  490 – – – – 490 490
Non-Executive 
Directors     
Dame Helen Alexander  – – – – – – 85
Margherita Della Valle  65 – – – – 65 65
Mary Francis  105 – – – – 105 105
Lesley Knox  85 – – – – 85 –
Andrew Mackenzie  65 – – – – 65 65
Ian Meakins   65 – – – – 65 65
Paul Rayner  88 – – – – 88 88
  963 – – – – 963 963
Total emoluments  4,243 641 576 1,212 2,127 8,799 8,772
 
(i) Contributions into the defined benefit pension plan for Phil Bentley and Chris Weston, calculated using the BIS methodology of 20 times the increase in the accrued 
pension for the year are included in the Directors’ remuneration table above. The table excludes CUPS defined contribution unfunded promises. 
(ii) Benefits and other cash include: 
 car, health and medical, financial planning and life assurance premiums; and 
 benefits and expenses for Chris Weston under the terms of his international assignment agreement and for his relocation from Canada to the US. 
(iii) Each Executive Director has deferred up to 50% of their maximum AIS potential on a gross basis and invested these funds into DMSS, see pages 62 and 73. 
(iv) The long-term incentives include a forecast of the value of the LTIS awards due to vest in April 2013, relating to the three-year performance period ending in 2012, 
and a forecast of the value of DMSS matching awards due to vest in April 2013, relating to the three-year performance period ending in 2012. The share price used 
to calculate the forecasted value was the three month average to 31 December 2012 (328.6p per share). The LTIS awards were valued using the latest TSR projection 
as at 1 February 2013, which was 75.6% (see TSR chart on page 72), and the projected EPS performance outcome of 0%. The DMSS awards were valued using the 
projected EP performance outcome of 100%.  
(v) The following are excluded from the table above: ESOS options, Sharesave (see table on page 73), the value of any shares awarded under the Share Incentive Plan 
and the value of dividend equivalent shares to be calculated at vesting in respect of LTIS and DMSS matching awards. 
(vi) The 2011 total remuneration figures have been recalculated and restated based on the BIS methodology for calculating total emoluments. Consequently, the value 
of the long-term incentive awards vesting in 2012 has been included in the total remuneration for 2011. 
(vii) The 2011 total emoluments figures have been recalculated and restated and now include: the AIS for the 2011 year that was deferred into the DMSS, and included 
in a separate table in the 2011 Remuneration Report, and  £101,000 paid by the Company into a personal pension plan for Sam Laidlaw. 
  
Directors’ remuneration  
Directors’ emoluments 
Governance – Remuneration Report
70 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
 
 Vested during 2012  In performance period 
Date of allocation 3 Apr 09 (i) (iii) 9 Sep 09 (ii) (iii)  6 Apr 10 (iv) (v) 4 Apr 11 (iv) (v) 4 Apr 12 (iv) (v) 
Sam Laidlaw 197,838 –  643,500 582,179 598,312 
Phil Bentley
 
 132,973 –  430,129 389,140 399,924 
Mark Hanafin  114,594 –  389,487 352,371 362,136 
Nick Luff 121,080 –  413,195 373,820 384,179 
Chris Weston
 (v)
 81,080 45,076  345,458 312,538 321,199 
Market price at allocation  – –  295p 326p 318p 
Vesting date – –  8 Apr 13 4 Apr 14 4 Apr 15 
Market price at vesting  312p 330p  – – – 
 
(i) At the end of the performance period the Company’s EPS growth in excess of RPI over the period, after the usual adjustment for tax equalisation, was 13.9%, 
resulting in vesting of 42.67% of the EPS shares. The TSR target for awards made in April 2009 had not been met and as a result none of the TSR shares allocated 
vested during the year. 21.3% of the original allocations were released on 4 April 2012 (2011: 27.5%). 
(ii) At the end of the performance period the Company’s EPS growth in excess of RPI over the period, after the usual adjustment for tax equalisation, was 13.9%, 
resulting in vesting of 42.67% of the EPS shares. Centrica had ranked 45th in the FTSE 100 comparator group for awards made in September 2009 and accordingly 
37.5% of the TSR shares vested. 40.1% of the original allocations were released on 12 September 2012 (2011: 32.5%). 
(iii) Additional shares were released to reflect the value of the dividends that would have been paid over the respective three-year period.  
(iv) From 2010, LTIS awards have been structured as nil-cost options for all UK resident participants. Once vested, nil-cost options will be reported in the Directors’ 
interests in share options disclosure within this report. 
(v) In respect of Chris Weston, who was based in Canada and moved to the US during the year, conditional awards have been allocated and are included above. 
 
In 2012, LTIS allocations equal to 200% of base pay were awarded to Executive Directors and, at lower levels, to other senior executives. 
The performance measures attaching to the outstanding LTIS awards are shown in the table below. 
Vesting criteria 2012 Performance condition over three-year period 
35% on EPS
 (i)
 growth against RPI growth Full vesting for EPS growth exceeding RPI growth by 30% 
Zero vesting if EPS growth does not exceed RPI growth by 9% 
Vesting will increase on a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% between these points. 
35% on absolute aggregate EP Full vesting for aggregate EP of £3.4bn 
Zero vesting if aggregate EP is below £2.6bn 
Vesting will increase on a straight-line basis between these points. 
30% on non-financial KPI dashboard As disclosed on page 65. 
Positive/negative multiplier on TSR performance 
against the FTSE 100 index 
0.667x multiple for Index -7% per annum and 1.5x multiple for Index +7% per annum subject to a cap at the face 
value of the award. Where performance falls between stated points, vesting is calculated on a straight-line basis.  
Vesting criteria 2010 and 2011  
One half on EPS
 (i)
 growth against RPI growth Full vesting for EPS growth exceeding RPI growth by 30% 
Zero vesting if EPS growth does not exceed RPI growth by 9% 
Vesting will increase on a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% between these points. 
One half on TSR measured as a percentage out-
performance of the FTSE 100 Index 
Full vesting for TSR out-performance of the FTSE 100 Index by 7% per annum 
Zero vesting if TSR out-performance of the FTSE 100 Index does not exceed 0.1% per annum 
Vesting will increase on a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% for TSR out-performance of the FTSE 100 
Index between these points. 
Vesting criteria 2009  
One half on EPS
 (i)
 growth against RPI growth
(i)
 As above for 2010 and 2011. 
One half on TSR measured against a comparator 
group of the FTSE 100 as constituted at the beginning 
of the performance period 
Full vesting for upper-quintile ranking 
Zero vesting for sub-median ranking 
Vesting will increase on a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% for ranking between these points. 
 
(i) EPS is the Group’s diluted adjusted earnings per share. 
 
 
  
LTIS and SLTIS allocations for Executive Directors (number of shares)  
LTIS 
Governance – Remuneration Report
71 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
REMUNERATION STATEMENT CONTINUED 
LTIS Non-Financial KPI Dashboard 
The non-financial KPI dashboard is designed to reward sustained high performance over the entire performance period, as indicated below. 
For each measure three performance zones have been established, represented by the following indicators: 
 High performance zone 
 Median performance zone 
 Low performance zone 
Measure 
Performance period 
Year 1 
2012 
Year 2 
2013 
Year 3 
2014 
Lost time injury frequency rate    
Process safety    
British Gas Net Promoter Score (NPS)    
Direct Energy NPS    
Employee engagement    
 
 
Total shareholder return (TSR) 
In assessing the extent to which the performance conditions have been met, the Committee uses data provided by Alithos Limited 
(an independent third party) for comparative TSR performance. The Committee also considers whether the extent to which the performance 
conditions have been achieved is a genuine reflection of the Company’ s underlying financial performance. 
The TSR graphs for the three-year performance of the LTIS awards that vested in April 2012 and September 2012 are shown below. 
 
  
 
The TSR graph for the three-year performance of the LTIS award due to vest in April 2013 is shown below, including forecast performance 
to April 2013. 
 
 
Centrica and FTSE 100 comparator companies
TSR – three year comparator group
Source: Alithos Limited, 2 April 2009 = 100
FTSE 100 from 2 April 2009 return index FTSE 100 from 2 April 2009 return index Centrica return index
Apr 2009 Apr 2010 Apr 2011 Apr 2012
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
Apr 2010 Apr 2011 Apr 2012 Apr 2013 
(forecast)
Centrica and FTSE 100 comparator companies
TSR – three year comparator group
Source: Alithos Limited, 4 April 2010 = 100
FTSE 100 from 4 April 2010 return index FTSE 100 from 4 April 2010 return index Centrica return index
100
110
120
130
140
Centrica and FTSE 100 comparator companies
TSR – three year comparator group
Source: Alithos Limited, 8 September 2009 = 100
FTSE 100 from 8 September 2009 return index FTSE 100 from 8 September 2009 return index Centrica return index
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
Sep 2009 Sep 2010 Sep 2011  Sep 2012
Governance – Remuneration Report
72 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
 
 
Deferred and  
investment shares  
acquired during 
2012  
Conditional 
matching shares 
awarded during 
2012 (ii) (iii) 
Deferred, 
investment and 
matching shares 
awarded during 
2011 (ii) (iii) (iv) 
Deferred, 
investment and 
matching shares 
awarded during 
2010 (ii) (iii) (iv) 
Deferred shares 
released and 
investment shares 
transferred  
during 2012 (iv)  
Conditional 
matching shares 
released during 
2012 (v) 
Sam Laidlaw 272,848 548,114 733,103 800,728 282,574  701,639 
Phil Bentley 129,720  305,306 397,889 436,973 86,099 172,198 
Mark Hanafin 138,231  276,462 362,033 374,993 113,519 332,245 
Nick Luff 146,645  293,290 381,808 396,565 140,352 356,787 
Chris Weston
 (i)
 122,605 245,210 318,556 349,128 109,241 280,040 
Market price at 
Allocation date 312p 312p 332.14p 297.36p   
Vesting Date 4 Apr 15 4 Apr 15 4 Apr 14 8 Apr 13 4 Apr 12 4 Apr 12 
Market price 
At Vesting Date     312p 312p 
 
(i) In respect of Chris Weston, who was based in Canada and moved to the US during the year, conditional awards have been allocated and in this respect, 
166,057 shares are included above. 
(ii) From 2010, awards of matching shares to executives excluding Chris Weston have been structured as nil-cost options for all UK resident participants. Once vested, 
nil-cost options will be reported in the Directors’ interests in share options disclosure within this report. 
(iii) For the calculation of matching shares before 2012, investment shares were grossed up (to reflect the impact of income tax and employee’s National Insurance 
Contributions (NICs)) so that the deferred and investment shares were matched on the same basis.  
(iv) The number of matching shares released following the satisfaction of the performance condition is increased to reflect the dividends that would have been paid during 
the three-year performance period. Dividends are paid on the deferred and investment shares to the participants on the normal dividend payment date.  
(v) As at 31 December 2011, the Company’s cumulative EP growth over the three-year performance period was 62% and as a result the conditional matching shares 
vested in full.  
Full details of the options over ordinary shares in the Company held by Executive Directors who served during the year, and any movements 
in those options in the year, are shown below. 
 
Options held 
as at 
1 January 
2012 
Options 
granted 
during the 
year 
Options 
exercised 
during the 
year 
Options 
lapsed
 during the 
year 
Options held
as at
31 December
2012 
Exercise 
price 
(pence) (i) 
Date from
which
exercisable Expiry date 
Sam Laidlaw          
Sharesave 3,977 – – – 3,977 228.16 Jun 13 Nov 13 
Phil Bentley         
Sharesave 3,977 – – – 3,977 228.16 Jun 13 Nov 13 
Mark Hanafin         
SESOS 336,012 – – – 336,012 255.94 Sep 08 Sep 18 
Sharesave 4,727 3,740 (4,727)
(ii)
 – 3,740 240.60
 (iii)
 Jun 15 Nov 15 
  340,739 3,740 (4,727) – 339,752    
Nick Luff         
Sharesave 7,392 – – – 7,392 227.24 Jun 13 Nov 13 
Chris Weston         
ESOS 112,330 – (112,330)
(iv)
 – - 130.50 Mar 06 – 
ESOS 120,379 – – – 120,379 199.36 Mar 07 Mar 14 
ESOS 130,187 – – – 130,187 203.55 Apr 08 Mar 15 
ESOS 267,920 – – – 267,920 253.80 Apr 09 Apr 16 
Sharesave 4,727 3,740 (4,727)
(v)
 – 3,740 240.60
 (iii)
 Jun 15 Nov 15 
  635,543 3,740 (117,057) – 522,226    
 
(i) Where appropriate, exercise prices were adjusted to take account of the dilutive effect of the Rights Issue in 2008. 
(ii) The share price on the date of exercise was 323.50p per share and consequently the gain on exercise was £6,143. 
(iii) This relates to the exercise price of the options granted during the year. The exercise price of the options exercised during the year was 193.54 pence. 
(iv) The share price on the date of exercise was 319.60p per share and consequently the gain on exercise was £212,416. 
(v) The share price on the date of exercise was 308.60p per share and consequently the gain on exercise was £5,439. 
 
  
DMSS for Executive Directors (number of shares) 
 
Directors’ interests in share options 
Governance – Remuneration Report
73 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
REMUNERATION STATEMENT CONTINUED 
The following table shows the interests of the Directors who held office at the end of the year in the ordinary shares of the Company and, 
for the Executive Directors, their interests in the Company’ s share schemes. 
 
Shareholdings  
as at  
31 December 
2012 (iii) 
Shareholdings
 as at
1 January 2012 
DMSS total 
matching shares 
as at 
31 December 
2012 
DMSS total 
matching shares 
as at
1 January 2012 
LTIS total 
allocations  
of shares as at 
31 December 
2012 
LTIS total 
allocations 
of shares as at 
1 January 2012 
Chief Executive       
Sam Laidlaw
 (i) (ii)
 2,521,122 2,249,985 1,616,821 1,770,346 1,823,991 2,032,379 
Executive Directors       
Phil Bentley
 (i) (ii)
 2,219,238 1,995,871 902,306 769,198 1,219,193 1,361,477 
Mark Hanafin 
(i) (ii)
 519,093 488,941 803,486 859,269 1,103,994 1,209,126 
Nick Luff
 (i) (ii)
 646,997 639,791 851,255 914,752 1,171,194 1,280,733 
Chris Weston
 (i) (ii)
 631,754 591,361 727,750 762,580 979,195 1,086,610 
Chairman       
Sir Roger Carr 58,361 58,361 – – – - 
Non-Executive Directors       
Margherita Della Valle 5,000 5,000 – – – – 
Mary Francis 3,500 3,500 – – – – 
Lesley Knox 3,500 – – – – – 
Andrew Mackenzie 28,875 28,875 – – – – 
Ian Meakins 5,000 5,000 – – – – 
Paul Rayner 56,875 56,875 – – – – 
 
(i) Executive Directors' shareholdings shown above include those held in the Share Incentive Plan and the deferred and investment shares held in DMSS. Shareholdings 
for Chris Weston include 166,057 notional deferred shares under DMSS which will remain notional until the end of the three-year deferral period due to local Canadian 
tax laws. 
(ii) Matching shares held in DMSS and shares held under LTIS are conditional and the above numbers indicate the maximum potential opportunity. More detail can 
be found in their respective tables on pages 73 and 71. 
(iii) From 1 January 2012 to 27 February 2013, none of the Directors had any interests in the securities of the Company’s subsidiaries or associated undertakings. 
 
 
 
Accrued 
pension as at 
31 December 
2012 
£ 
Accrued 
pension as at 
31 December 
2011 
£ 
Increase in 
accrued 
pension
less inflation
£
Transfer value 
as at
31 December 
2012
£
Transfer value 
as at
31 December 
2011
£
Contribution 
paid in 2012 
£ 
Difference in 
transfer value  
less 
contributions 
£ 
Transfer value of 
increase in 
accrued pension 
excluding inflation
£
Phil Bentley 226,200 209,500 11,253 5,420,000 3,641,900 38,100 1,740,000 228,500
Chris Weston 125,600 114,300 8,328 1,879,800 1,574,300 30,600 274,900 93,500
 
Notes on information shown in the table. 
 The accrued pension is that which would be paid annually on retirement at age 62, based on eligible service to, and pensionable earnings at, 31 December 2012.The pension accrual 
rates for 2012 for Phil Bentley and Chris Weston were 2.65% and 2.22% of final pensionable earnings respectively.  
 The increase in accrued pension has been adjusted to exclude inflation by revaluing the accrued pension as at 31 December 2011 by the rate of inflation (2.6%) and deducting 
this from the accrued pension as at 31 December 2012. The rate of inflation used for pension increases under both the CPP and CUPS was 2.6%, the annual rate to 
30 September 2012 (the rate of inflation used for pensions in deferment from 1 January 2011 reference the Consumer prices index with a cap of 2.5% for pension accrued after 
29 February 2012). 
 As previously reported, under the terms of his contract of employment, the transfer value calculations in respect of Phil Bentley as at 31 December 2012 reflect his entitlement to retire 
on an unreduced pension at age 58 which vested on 14 January 2012 (the transfer value as at 31 December 2011 is based on an assumed retirement age of 62). If the pension at 
31 December 2012 was provided on the basis of a Normal Retirement Age of 62 the transfer value would amount to £4,254,000, the difference in transfer value less contributions 
would amount to £574,000, and the transfer value of the increase in accrued pension excluding pension contributions would amount to £165,900. 
 
 
  
Directors’ interests in shares (number of shares) 
Pension benefits earned by Directors in the CPP and CUPS defined benefit section 
Governance – Remuneration Report
74 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Changes since 1 January 2013 
Share Incentive Plan (SIP) 
During the period from 1 January to 27 February 2013, the only changes to the Directors’ interests in shares were in respect of shares 
acquired through the SIP: 108 shares in respect of Sam Laidlaw and 107 shares in respect of Mark Hanafin, Nick Luff, Chris Weston 
and Phil Bentley. 
Termination arrangements for Phil Bentley 
As announced on 27 February 2013, Phil Bentley will be stepping down from his role as Managing Director of British Gas, and therefore 
as an Executive Director, on 30 June 2013 and he will leave the Company by 31 December 2013.  
Phil Bentley will continue as Managing Director of British Gas until 30 June 2013 and therefore will stand for re-election as a Director at the 
Company’ s Annual General meeting in May for the interim period. From 1 July to 31 December 2013 he will cease to be a Director but will 
remain as an employee.  
Phil Bentley will be paid according to his current contractual arrangements including pro rata performance bonus awards through to the 
expiry of his accrued vacation on 31 July 2013. Thereafter he will be paid a basic salary and all bonus earning opportunities will cease. 
He will not participate in any new long-term awards to be made in 2013. In the event that he takes up new full time employment after 
the handover he may be released from his employment, in which case all remuneration will cease at that time. 
On completion of his employment he will have been deemed to have worked his contractual notice period and no lump sum will be paid 
in lieu of notice. 
Phil Bentley is classified as a ‘good leaver’ and is therefore entitled to all accrued allocations that have been earned during his employment 
under the long term incentive plans in the normal way. The value of the long term incentive plans will be time apportioned and will remain 
subject to the performance conditions and therefore the actual number of shares which will vest will be lower than the maximum potential. 
The actual value of the awards will be determined at the end of the performance measurement period.  
Phil Bentley will leave with a pension entitlement consistent with his contractual rights which reflects his length of service and includes accrued 
rights transferred in from his prior employment commencing in September 1980. Under the pension arrangements he is entitled to retire at 
age 55 on a reduced pension, or at age 58 on an unreduced pension. Based on the contributions at 31 December 2012 and assuming he 
retires at age 58, he will become entitled to an annual pension from the Company of approximately £226,200. 
This Report on remuneration has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
Grant Dawson 
General Counsel & Company Secretary 
27 February 2013 
Governance – Remuneration Report
75 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF 
CENTRICA PLC 
We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Centrica plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Group Income 
Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group Balance Sheet, 
the Group Cash Flow Statement and the related notes and supplementary information. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU). 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibility Statement set out on page 60, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the Group Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’ s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’ s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed 
by our prior consent in writing. 
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’ s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited Financial Statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider 
the implications for our report. 
Opinion on Financial Statements 
In our opinion the Group Financial Statements:  
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’ s affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended;  
 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU; and 
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulations. 
Opinion on the other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006  
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the Group Financial Statements are prepared 
is consistent with the Group Financial Statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception  
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:  
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
 certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or  
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
 the Directors’ statement, set out on page 60 in relation to going concern;  
 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’ s compliance with the nine provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and 
 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration. 
Other matter  
We have reported separately on the parent Company Financial Statements of Centrica plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 
and on the information in the Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
 
Charles Bowman 
Senior Statutory Auditor 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
27 February 2013 
76 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance – Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
77 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
 78 Group Financial Statements
 82 Notes to the Financial Statements
 82  Summary of significant new accounting policies and 
reporting changes
 82 Centrica specific accounting measures
 83  Critical accounting judgements and key sources  
of estimation uncertainty
 86 Segmental analysis
 91 Costs of continuing operations
 91 Directors and employees
 92 Exceptional items and certain re-measurements
 93 Net interest
 93 Taxation
 94 Dividends
 95 Earnings per ordinary share
 96 Sources of finance
 97 Notes to the Group Cash Flow Statement
 99 Goodwill and other intangible assets
 102 Property, plant and equipment
 103 Interests in joint ventures and associates
 1 04 I nve n t or i e s
 104 Trade and other receivables
 105 Derivative financial instruments
 1 0 6 He dge a cco u n t i n g
 107 Trade and other payables
 108 Deferred tax liabilities and assets
 108 Provisions for other liabilities and charges
 109 Fair value of financial instruments
 111 Financial risk management
 1 1 5 Share capital
 115 Accumulated other comprehensive (loss)/income
 1 1 6 Other equity
 1 1 6 Pensions
 119 Business combinations and asset purchases
 120  Disposals, discontinued operations and disposal 
groups held for sale
 1 2 0 A udit ors ’ r e mune ra t ion
 121 Commitments and contingencies
 122 Related party transactions
 123 Fixed-fee service and insurance contracts
 123 Events after the balance sheet date
 1 2 4 S u p p l e m e n t a r y i n f or mat i on
 1 2 4 General information
 124 Summary of significant accounting policies
 130 Financial risk management
 1 3 2 Se gm e n t a l a na l y s i s
 1 3 2 O th e r e quit y
 1 3 3 P e ns i o ns
 1 3 3 Sha r e s c he me s
 133 Fixed-fee service and insurance contracts
 1 3 4 P r i nc i p a l u nd e r t a k i ngs
 135 Independent Auditors’ Report – Company
 136 Company Balance Sheet
 137 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
 143 Gas and Liquids Reserves
 144 Five Year Record
Contents  
 
GROUP INCOME STATEMENT 
Year ended 31 December 2012 2011
 Notes
Business 
performance
£m
Exceptional
items and certain 
re-measurements 
£m
Results for
the year
£m
Business 
performance 
£m 
Exceptional
items and certain 
re-measurements 
£m
Results for
the year
£m
  
Group revenue 4(a) 23,942 – 23,94222,824 –22,824
Cost of sales before exceptional items and 
certain re-measurements 5 (18,676) – (18,676)(17,959) –(17,959)
Exceptional items  7 – (89) (89) – (221) (221)
Re-measurement of energy contracts 7 – 603 603 – (437) (437)
Cost of sales 5 (18,676) 514 (18,162)(17,959) (658)(18,617)
Gross profit 5,266 514 5,780 4,865 (658)4,207
Operating costs before exceptional items 5 (2,844) – (2,844)(2,750) –(2,750)
Exceptional items 7 – (445) (445) – (110) (110)
Operating costs 5 (2,844) (445) (3,289) (2,750) (110)(2,860)
Share of profits/(losses) in joint ventures and 
associates, net of interest and taxation 7, 16 140 (6) 134 93 (26) 67
Group operating profit 4(b) 2,562 63 2,625 2,208 (794)1,414
Interest income
 
8 254 – 254 212 – 212
Interest expense 8 (437) – (437) (358) – (358)
Net interest expense (183) – (183) (146) – (146)
Profit from continuing operations before 
taxation 2,379 63 2,442 2,062 (794)1,268
T axation on profit from continuing operations 9 (1,029) (140) (1,169) (810) (16) (826)
Profit from continuing operations after 
taxation  1,350 (77) 1,273 1,252 (810) 442
Profit from discontinued operations 7 – – – 13 22 35
Loss on disposal of discontinued operations  7, 31 – – – – (56) (56)
Discontinued operations – – – 13 (34) (21)
Profit for the year 1,350 (77) 1,273 1,265 (844) 421
  
Earnings per ordinary share 
Pence Pence
From continuing and discontinued operations:  
Basic 11 24.6 8.2
Diluted 11 24.4 8.1
From continuing operations:  
Basic 11 24.6 8.6
Diluted 11 24.4 8.5
Interim dividend paid per ordinary share 10 4.62 4.29
Final dividend proposed per ordinary 
share 10 11.78 11.11
 
The notes on pages 82 to 134 form part of these Financial Statements. 
Financial Statements
78 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
GROUP STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
 
Year ended 31 December 
 Notes 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Profit for the year  1,273 421
Other comprehensive (loss)/income:   
Transfer of available-for-sale reserve to Income Statement 27 – 23
Gains/(losses) on revaluation of available-for-sale securities 27 7 (4)
T axation on revaluation of available-for-sale securities 27 (2) (2)
  5 17
Net losses on cash flow hedges 27 (27) (99)
Transferred to income and expense on cash flow hedges 27 108 42
Transferred to assets and liabilities on cash flow hedges 27 (1) 2
Exchange differences on translation of cash flow hedges in foreign operations 27 1 (3)
T axation on cash flow hedges 27 (20) 23
  61 (35)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations  27 (44) (12)
Recycling of foreign exchange loss on disposal of business 27 – (3)
  (44) (15)
Net actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension schemes 27 (319) 198
T axation on net actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension schemes 27 69 (59)
  (250) 139
Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates, net of taxation 27 32 (25)
Other comprehensive (loss)/income net of taxation  (196) 81
Total comprehensive income for the year  1,077 502
 
GROUP STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
 
Share
capital
(note 26)
£m
Share
premium
£m
Retained 
 earnings 
£m 
Accumulated other 
comprehensive 
(loss)/income  
(note 27) 
£m 
Other
equity
(note 28)
£m
Total 
equity
£m
1 January 2011 318 833 4,386 (319) 601 5,819
T otal comprehensive income – – 421 81 – 502
Employee share schemes 1 41 5 – 10 57
Dividends – – (762) – – (762)
Purchase of non-controlling interest – – (7) – – (7)
Taxation – – – – (8) (8)
Exchange adjustments – – – – (1) (1)
31 December 2011 319 874 4,043 (238) 602 5,600
T otal comprehensive income – – 1,273 (196) – 1,077
Employee share schemes 2 55 11 – (2) 66
Dividends – – (816) – – (816)
Taxation – – – – (1) (1)
Exchange adjustments – – – – 1 1
31 December 2012 321 929 4,511 (434) 600 5,927
 
The notes on pages 82 to 134 form part of these Financial Statements. 
 
Financial Statements
79 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
GR
 
31 Dec
 
Non-
Good
Other
Prope
Intere
Defer
Trade
Deriva
Secur
Retire
 
Curre
Invent
Curre
Trade
Deriva
Secur
Cash 
 
Total
Curre
Trade
Curre
Bank 
Deriva
Provis
 
Net c
Non-
Trade
Bank 
Deriva
Defer
Provis
Retire
 
Net a
 
Equit
Share
Share
Retain
Accum
Other
Total
 
The F
were 
Sam
 
The n
ROUP B
ember 
-current asse
dwill 
r intangible asse
erty, plant and e
ests in joint vent
rred tax assets 
e and other rece
ative financial in
rities  
ement benefit a
ent assets 
tories 
ent tax assets 
e and other rece
ative financial in
rities 
and cash equi
l assets 
ent liabilities 
e and other pay
ent tax liabilities 
overdrafts, loa
ative financial in
sions for other l
current liabilit
-current liabil
e and other pay
overdrafts, loa
ative financial in
rred tax liabilities
sions for other l
ement benefit o
assets 
ty 
e capital 
e premium  
ned earnings  
mulated other c
r equity 
l equity 
Financial Statem
signed below o
m Laidlaw 
 
notes on pages
BALANC
ets 
ets 
equipment 
tures and assoc
eivables 
nstruments 
assets 
eivables 
nstruments 
valents 
yables 
ans and other b
nstruments 
liabilities and ch
ties 
lities 
yables 
ans and other b
nstruments 
s 
liabilities and ch
obligations 
comprehensive
ments on pages
on its behalf by
  
s 82 to 134 form
CE SHE
ciates 
orrowings 
harges 
orrowings 
harges 
e loss 
s 78 to 134 we
: 
Nick Luf
m part of these 
ET 
re approved an
 
ff 
Financial State
nd authorised fo
ements. 
or issue by the 
Notes
14
14
15
16
22
18
19
12
29
17
18
19
12
12
21
12
19
23
21
12
19
22
23
29
26
27
28
Board of Direct
2012 
£m 
 
2,543 
1,579 
7,965 
2,721 
183 
55 
313 
199 
254 
15,812 
 
545 
54 
4,335 
268 
7 
931 
6,140 
21,952 
 
(4,545) 
(594) 
(472) 
(615) 
(266) 
(6,492) 
(352) 
 
(26) 
(4,856) 
(327) 
(1,678) 
(2,480) 
(166) 
(9,533) 
5,927 
 
321 
929 
4,511 
(434) 
600 
5,927 
ctors on 27 Feb
 2
 
 2,5
 1,2
 6,4
 2,6
 2
 
 2
 1
 4
 13,9
 
 4
 
 4,2
 3
 
 5
 5,5
 19,5
 
 (4,0
 (2
 (5
 (1,1
 (3
 (6,2
 (6
 
 (
 (3,6
 (5
 (1,5
 (1,9
 (
 (7,6
 5,6
 3
 8
 4,0
 (2
 6
 5,6
bruary 2013 and
2011
£m
518
221
412
620
235
74
290
90
413
973
442
81
212
315
28
518
596
569
094)
226)
502)
40)
308)
270)
674)
(33)
669)
505)
506)
903)
(83)
699)
600
319
874
043
238)
602
600
d 
Chief f Executive Group Fin nance Directo or 
Financial Statements
80 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT 
 
Year ended 31 December 
 Notes 
2012 
£m 
 2011
£m
Cash generated from continuing operations 13(a) 3,605  3,229
Income taxes paid 13(d) (332) (430)
Petroleum revenue tax paid 13(d) (192) (262)
Interest received  6  20
Interest paid  (1) (3)
Payments relating to exceptional charges  (266) (194)
Net cash flow from continuing operating activities  2,820  2,360
Net cash flow from discontinued operating activities  – (23)
Net cash flow from operating activities   2,820  2,337
Purchase of businesses net of cash and cash equivalents acquired  (155) (394)
Sale of businesses net of cash and cash equivalents disposed of  30  78
Purchase of intangible assets  4(e),13(c) (572) (299)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 4(e) (1,795) (765)
Disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets  14  6
Investments in joint ventures and associates  (291) (236)
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 16(a) 110  147
Repayments of loans to, and disposal of investments in, joint ventures and associates 16(a) 42  10
Interest received  33  6
Sale of securities 13(b) 26  48
Net cash flow from continuing investing activities  (2,558) (1,399)
Net cash flow from discontinued investing activities  – (1)
Net cash flow from investing activities  (2,558) (1,400)
Issue of ordinary share capital 26 33  23
Purchase of own shares  (9) (6)
Financing interest received  46  9
Financing interest paid  (256) (202)
Cash inflow from additional debt  1,712  114
Cash outflow from payment of capital element of finance leases  (31) (25)
Cash outflow from repayment of other debt  (471) (30)
Cash outflow from settlement of derivative contracts related to borrowings  (14) –
Net cash flow from increase in debt 13(b) 1,196  59
Realised net foreign exchange loss on cash settlement of derivative contracts  (5) (28)
Equity dividends paid  (815) (762)
Net cash flow from continuing financing activities  190 (907)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  452  30
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  479  451
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  – (2)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  931  479
Included in the following lines of the Balance Sheet:    
Cash and cash equivalents 12(b) 931  518
Bank overdrafts, loans and other borrowings  – (39)
  931  479
 
The notes on pages 82 to 134 form part of these Financial Statements. 
 
Financial Statements
81 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
1. Summary of significant new accounting policies 
and reporting changes 
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation 
of these consolidated Financial Statements are set out below 
and in the Supplementary Information (note S2). These policies have 
been consistently applied to the years presented. 
The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
as adopted by the European Union (EU) and therefore comply with 
Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 2006.  
The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared 
on the historical cost basis, except for derivative financial 
instruments, available-for-sale financial assets, financial instruments 
designated as at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition, 
and the assets of the Group’ s pension schemes that have been 
measured at fair value; and the liabilities of the Group’ s pension 
schemes that are measured using the projected unit credit valuation 
method. The carrying values of recognised assets and liabilities that 
are hedged items in fair value hedges, and are otherwise carried at 
cost, are adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable 
to the risks that are being hedged.  
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with IFRS as 
adopted by the EU requires the use of certain critical accounting 
estimates. It requires management to exercise its judgement in the 
processes of applying the Group’ s accounting policies. The areas 
involving a higher degree of judgement, complexity or areas where 
assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated 
Financial Statements are described in notes 2 and 3.  
There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the 
first time for the current financial year that have had a material impact 
on the Group. 
The standards and amendments to standards that are issued but 
not yet applied which could have an impact on the Group’ s future 
Financial Statements are: IFRS 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and amendments 
to IAS 19. These standards and amendments to standards have an 
effective date after the date of these Financial Statements and the 
Group has not early adopted them. IAS 19 (revised 2011) will apply 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 and will change the way 
interest is calculated on pension scheme assets and liabilities. If this 
standard had been applied to the year ended 31 December 2012, 
it is estimated that interest income would have been reduced by 
approximately £26 million. The Group is continuing to assess the 
impact that the other standards and amendments to standards 
may have. 
2. Centrica specific accounting measures 
The Directors believe that reporting adjusted profit and adjusted 
earnings per share measures provides additional useful information 
on business performance and underlying trends. These measures 
are used for internal performance purposes. The adjusted measures 
in this report are not defined terms under IFRS and may  
not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported 
by other companies. 
The measure of operating profit used by management to evaluate 
segment performance is adjusted operating profit. Adjusted 
operating profit is defined as operating profit before: 
 exceptional items;  
 certain re-measurements; 
 depreciation resulting from fair value uplifts to property, plant and 
equipment (PP&E) on the acquisition of Strategic Investments; 
but including: 
 the Group’ s share of the results from joint ventures and associates 
before interest and taxation.  
Note 4 contains an analysis of adjusted operating profit 
by segment and a reconciliation of adjusted operating profit 
to operating profit after exceptional items and certain 
re-measurements. 
Adjusted earnings is defined as earnings before: 
 exceptional items net of taxation; 
 certain re-measurements net of taxation; and  
 depreciation of fair value uplifts to PP&E on the acquisition of 
Strategic Investments, net of taxation.  
A reconciliation of earnings is provided in note 11.  
The Directors have determined that for Strategic Investments 
it is important to separately identify the earnings impact of increased 
depreciation arising from the acquisition-date fair value uplifts made 
to PP&E over their useful economic lives. As a result of the nature 
of fair value assessments in the energy industry the value attributed 
to strategic assets is a subjective judgement based on a wide range 
of complex variables at a point in time. The subsequent depreciation 
of the fair value uplifts bears little relationship to current market 
conditions, operational performance or underlying cash generation. 
Management therefore reports and monitors the operational 
performance of Strategic Investments before the impact of 
depreciation on fair value uplifts to PP&E and the segmental 
results are presented on a consistent basis. 
The Group has two Strategic Investments for which reported 
profits have been adjusted due to the impact of fair value uplifts. 
These Strategic Investments relate to the 2009 acquisitions of 
Venture Production plc (‘Venture’) the operating results of which 
are included within the Centrica Energy – Gas segment and 
the acquisition of the 20% interest in Lake Acquisitions Limited 
(‘British Energy’), which owned the British Energy Group, the results 
of which are included within the Centrica Energy – Power segment. 
Significant adjustments have been made to the acquired PP&E 
to report the acquired oil and gas field interests at their acquisition-
date fair values which are subsequently depreciated through 
the Group Income Statement over their respective useful economic 
lives using the unit of production method. 
Whilst the impact of unwinding the PP&E at their acquisition-date fair 
values is included in overall reported profit for the year, the Directors 
have reversed the earnings impact of the increased depreciation 
and related taxation resulting from fair value uplifts to the acquired oil 
and gas interests in order to arrive at adjusted profit from continuing 
operations after taxation.
Basis of preparation 
(a) Standards, amendments and interpretations effective 
in 2012 
(b) Standards, amendments and interpretations that are 
issued but not yet applied by the Group 
Use of adjusted profit measures 
(i) Venture 
  
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
2. Centrica specific accounting measures continued 
(ii) British Energy 
The 20% interest in British Energy is accounted for as an investment 
in an associate using the equity method. The Group reports its share 
of the associate’ s profit or loss, which is net of interest and taxation, 
within the Group Income Statement. 
The most significant fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition 
of the 20% investment in British Energy relate to the fair value uplifts 
made to the British Energy nuclear power stations to report the 
PP&E at their acquisition-date fair values and fair value uplifts made 
to British Energy’ s energy procurement contracts and energy sales 
contracts to report these at their acquisition-date fair values. 
Whilst the impact of increased depreciation and related taxation 
through unwinding the fair value uplifts to the nuclear power stations 
is included in the share of associate’ s post-acquisition result included 
in overall reported Group profit for the year, the Directors have 
reversed these impacts in arriving at adjusted profit from continuing 
operations for the year. The impact of unwinding the acquisition-date 
fair values attributable to the acquired energy procurement and 
energy sales contracts is included within certain re-measurements. 
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements 
The Group reflects its underlying financial results in the ‘business 
performance’ column of the Group Income Statement. T o be able 
to provide readers with this clear and consistent presentation, the 
effects of ‘certain re-measurements’ of financial instruments, and 
‘exceptional items’, are reported separately in a different column in 
the Group Income Statement. 
In our business we enter into a portfolio of forward energy contracts 
which include buying substantial quantities of commodity to meet 
the future needs of our customers. Primarily because these contracts 
include terms that permit net settlement, the rules within IAS 39 
require the contracts to be individually fair valued. In addition, 
the Group also enters into a range of commodity contracts designed 
to secure the value of its underlying production, generation, storage 
and transportation assets, consistent with an integrated energy 
business in the UK and North America. Fair value movements 
on these commodity derivative contracts do not reflect the underlying 
performance of the business because the contracts are economically 
related to our upstream assets or downstream demand in our 
chosen markets, which are typically not fair valued. Therefore, 
these certain re-measurements are reported separately and are 
subsequently reflected in business performance when the underlying 
transaction or asset impacts profit or loss. 
Exceptional items are those items which are of a non-recurring 
nature and, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed 
separately by virtue of their nature, size or incidence. Again, 
to ensure the business performance column reflects the underlying 
results of the Group, these exceptional items are also reported 
in a separate column in the Group Income Statement. Items which 
may be considered exceptional in nature include disposals 
of businesses, business restructurings, significant onerous contract 
charges and asset write-downs. See note S2 for a more detailed 
explanation of the accounting treatment for exceptional items 
and certain re-measurements. 
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of 
estimation uncertainty 
(a) Critical judgements in applying the Group’s 
accounting policies 
The Group’ s accounting policies as set out in note S2 and Notes 
to the Financial Statements include descriptions of judgements 
management has made in applying the Group’ s accounting 
policies. Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect 
on the amounts recognised in the Financial Statements (apart from 
those involving estimations which are dealt with below) include 
the following: 
 the presentation of selected items as exceptional, see notes 2, 7 
and S2; 
 the use of adjusted profit and adjusted earnings per share 
measures, see notes 2, 4 and 11; and 
 the classification of energy procurement contracts as derivative 
financial instruments and presentation as certain 
re-measurements, see notes 2, 7 and 19. 
In addition, management has made the following key judgements 
in applying the Group’ s accounting policies that have the most 
significant effect on the Group’ s Financial Statements: 
Wind farm partial disposals 
In recent years, the Group has disposed of 50% of the equity voting 
capital (and 50% of the shareholder loans where relevant) in wind 
farm companies, for example, GLID Wind Farms T opCo Limited, 
Lincs Wind Farm Limited and Celtic Array Limited (‘Round 3’). 
Associated with certain of these disposals, the Group contracted 
to purchase a large percentage of the output produced by the wind 
farms under arm’ s length, 15-year, offtake agreements. The Group 
also contracted to provide management, operational and transitional 
support services to these companies as directed by their boards 
(and shareholders). Shareholders’ agreements were put in place 
which included a number of reserved matters and provide for joint 
management of the major decisions of the companies.  
Accordingly, the Directors have judged that the disposal of equity 
voting share capital (and shareholder loans) was a loss of control 
over the financial and operating policies of the companies. Therefore, 
the remaining investments are equity accounted as investments 
in joint ventures (see note 16). The Directors have also judged that 
the 15-year offtake agreements are not leasing arrangements. 
This is because the Group is not purchasing substantially 
all of the economic output of the wind farms. These contracts 
are considered to be outside the scope of IAS 39 apart from 
the embedded derivatives arising from the pricing terms which 
are marked to market separately. 
For the Celtic Array Limited (‘Round 3’) disposal which occurred 
during the year, profits arising on disposal of the equity interest 
are recognised within the ‘business performance’ column, in line 
with the Group’ s established business model of bringing in partners 
as wind farm projects develop in order to realise value, share risk and 
reduce our capital requirements. 
Leases – third-party power station tolling arrangements 
The Group has two long-term power station tolling contracts: 
(i) Spalding in the UK and (ii) Rijnmond in the Netherlands. 
The arrangements provide Centrica with the right to nominate 100% 
of the plant output for the duration of the contracts in return for a mix 
of capacity payments and operating payments based on plant 
availability.  
The Spalding contract runs until 2021 and Centrica holds an option 
to extend the tolling arrangement for a further eight years, exercisable 
by 30 September 2020. If extended, Centrica is granted an option 
to purchase the station at the end of this further period. The Directors 
have judged that the arrangement should be accounted for as 
a finance lease as the lease term is judged to be substantially all 
of the economic life of the power station and the present value
Financial Statements
82 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
2. Centrica specific accounting measures continued 
(ii) British Energy 
The 20% interest in British Energy is accounted for as an investment 
in an associate using the equity method. The Group reports its share 
of the associate’ s profit or loss, which is net of interest and taxation, 
within the Group Income Statement. 
The most significant fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition 
of the 20% investment in British Energy relate to the fair value uplifts 
made to the British Energy nuclear power stations to report the 
PP&E at their acquisition-date fair values and fair value uplifts made 
to British Energy’ s energy procurement contracts and energy sales 
contracts to report these at their acquisition-date fair values. 
Whilst the impact of increased depreciation and related taxation 
through unwinding the fair value uplifts to the nuclear power stations 
is included in the share of associate’ s post-acquisition result included 
in overall reported Group profit for the year, the Directors have 
reversed these impacts in arriving at adjusted profit from continuing 
operations for the year. The impact of unwinding the acquisition-date 
fair values attributable to the acquired energy procurement and 
energy sales contracts is included within certain re-measurements. 
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements 
The Group reflects its underlying financial results in the ‘business 
performance’ column of the Group Income Statement. T o be able 
to provide readers with this clear and consistent presentation, the 
effects of ‘certain re-measurements’ of financial instruments, and 
‘exceptional items’, are reported separately in a different column in 
the Group Income Statement. 
In our business we enter into a portfolio of forward energy contracts 
which include buying substantial quantities of commodity to meet 
the future needs of our customers. Primarily because these contracts 
include terms that permit net settlement, the rules within IAS 39 
require the contracts to be individually fair valued. In addition, 
the Group also enters into a range of commodity contracts designed 
to secure the value of its underlying production, generation, storage 
and transportation assets, consistent with an integrated energy 
business in the UK and North America. Fair value movements 
on these commodity derivative contracts do not reflect the underlying 
performance of the business because the contracts are economically 
related to our upstream assets or downstream demand in our 
chosen markets, which are typically not fair valued. Therefore, 
these certain re-measurements are reported separately and are 
subsequently reflected in business performance when the underlying 
transaction or asset impacts profit or loss. 
Exceptional items are those items which are of a non-recurring 
nature and, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed 
separately by virtue of their nature, size or incidence. Again, 
to ensure the business performance column reflects the underlying 
results of the Group, these exceptional items are also reported 
in a separate column in the Group Income Statement. Items which 
may be considered exceptional in nature include disposals 
of businesses, business restructurings, significant onerous contract 
charges and asset write-downs. See note S2 for a more detailed 
explanation of the accounting treatment for exceptional items 
and certain re-measurements. 
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of 
estimation uncertainty 
(a) Critical judgements in applying the Group’s 
accounting policies 
The Group’ s accounting policies as set out in note S2 and Notes 
to the Financial Statements include descriptions of judgements 
management has made in applying the Group’ s accounting 
policies. Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect 
on the amounts recognised in the Financial Statements (apart from 
those involving estimations which are dealt with below) include 
the following: 
 the presentation of selected items as exceptional, see notes 2, 7 
and S2; 
 the use of adjusted profit and adjusted earnings per share 
measures, see notes 2, 4 and 11; and 
 the classification of energy procurement contracts as derivative 
financial instruments and presentation as certain 
re-measurements, see notes 2, 7 and 19. 
In addition, management has made the following key judgements 
in applying the Group’ s accounting policies that have the most 
significant effect on the Group’ s Financial Statements: 
Wind farm partial disposals 
In recent years, the Group has disposed of 50% of the equity voting 
capital (and 50% of the shareholder loans where relevant) in wind 
farm companies, for example, GLID Wind Farms T opCo Limited, 
Lincs Wind Farm Limited and Celtic Array Limited (‘Round 3’). 
Associated with certain of these disposals, the Group contracted 
to purchase a large percentage of the output produced by the wind 
farms under arm’ s length, 15-year, offtake agreements. The Group 
also contracted to provide management, operational and transitional 
support services to these companies as directed by their boards 
(and shareholders). Shareholders’ agreements were put in place 
which included a number of reserved matters and provide for joint 
management of the major decisions of the companies.  
Accordingly, the Directors have judged that the disposal of equity 
voting share capital (and shareholder loans) was a loss of control 
over the financial and operating policies of the companies. Therefore, 
the remaining investments are equity accounted as investments 
in joint ventures (see note 16). The Directors have also judged that 
the 15-year offtake agreements are not leasing arrangements. 
This is because the Group is not purchasing substantially 
all of the economic output of the wind farms. These contracts 
are considered to be outside the scope of IAS 39 apart from 
the embedded derivatives arising from the pricing terms which 
are marked to market separately. 
For the Celtic Array Limited (‘Round 3’) disposal which occurred 
during the year, profits arising on disposal of the equity interest 
are recognised within the ‘business performance’ column, in line 
with the Group’ s established business model of bringing in partners 
as wind farm projects develop in order to realise value, share risk and 
reduce our capital requirements. 
Leases – third-party power station tolling arrangements 
The Group has two long-term power station tolling contracts: 
(i) Spalding in the UK and (ii) Rijnmond in the Netherlands. 
The arrangements provide Centrica with the right to nominate 100% 
of the plant output for the duration of the contracts in return for a mix 
of capacity payments and operating payments based on plant 
availability.  
The Spalding contract runs until 2021 and Centrica holds an option 
to extend the tolling arrangement for a further eight years, exercisable 
by 30 September 2020. If extended, Centrica is granted an option 
to purchase the station at the end of this further period. The Directors 
have judged that the arrangement should be accounted for as 
a finance lease as the lease term is judged to be substantially all 
of the economic life of the power station and the present value
Financial Statements
83 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of 
estimation uncertainty continued 
of the minimum lease payments at inception date of the arrangement 
amounted to substantially all of the fair value of the power station 
at that time. 
Details of the interest charges, finance lease payable and finance 
lease asset are included in notes 8, 12 and 15 respectively. 
The Rijnmond contract runs until 2030 and Centrica does not have 
the right to extend the agreement or any option to purchase the 
plant. The Directors have judged that the arrangement should be 
accounted for as an operating lease as the lease term is not judged 
to be substantially all of the economic life of the power station and 
the present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception 
date of the arrangement did not amount to substantially all of the fair 
value of the power station at that time. Details of the operating lease 
disclosures are included in note 33.  
Business combinations and acquisitions of associates and joint 
ventures require a fair value exercise to be undertaken to allocate 
the purchase price (cost) to the fair value of the acquired identifiable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.  
As a result of the nature of fair value assessments in the energy 
industry this purchase price allocation exercise requires subjective 
judgements based on a wide range of complex variables at a point 
in time. Management uses all available information to make the fair 
value determinations.  
During the year the Group has acquired a number of producing 
and development oil and gas assets. The Group has determined 
that these acquisitions take the form of asset purchases rather than 
business combinations as they constitute the purchase of jointly 
controlled assets governed by joint operating agreements and as 
such do not give the Group control of the businesses. Business 
combinations and asset acquisitions are set out in note 30. 
The Energy Company Obligation (‘ECO’) order came into force 
on 5 December 2012. The order requires UK-licensed energy 
suppliers to improve the energy efficiency of domestic households 
from 1 January 2013. T argets are set in proportion to the size of 
historic customer bases and must be delivered by 31 March 2015. 
The Group judges that although targets are based on historic share 
of supply, it is not obligated by ECO in 2012. Accordingly, 
no provision has been recognised in the current year. 
The Department of Energy and Climate Change (‘DECC’) has 
modified the UK gas and electricity supply licences requiring all 
domestic premises to be fitted with compliant smart meters for 
measuring energy consumption by 31 December 2019. The Group 
has a number of existing rental contracts for non-compliant meters 
that include penalty charges if these meters are removed from use 
before the end of their deemed useful lives. The Group considers 
that these contracts are not onerous until the meters have been 
physically removed from use and therefore only recognises a 
provision at this point. 
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources 
of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have 
a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, 
are discussed below. 
Revenue for energy supply activities includes an assessment 
of energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter 
reading and the year end (unread). Unread gas and electricity 
comprises both billed and unbilled revenue. It is estimated through 
the billing systems, using historical consumption patterns, on a 
customer by customer basis, taking into account weather patterns, 
load forecasts and the differences between actual meter reads being 
returned and system estimates. Actual meter reads continue to be 
compared to system estimates between the balance sheet date and 
the finalisation of the accounts. An assessment is also made of any 
factors that are likely to materially affect the ultimate economic 
benefits which will flow to the Group, including bill cancellation 
and re-bill rates. T o the extent that the economic benefits are  
not expected to flow to the Group, the value of that revenue 
is not recognised. The judgements applied, and the assumptions 
underpinning these judgements, are considered to be appropriate. 
However, a change in these assumptions would have an impact 
on the amount of revenue recognised. 
Industry reconciliation procedures are required as differences arise 
between the estimated quantity of gas and electricity the Group 
deems to have supplied and billed customers, and the estimated 
quantity industry system operators deem the individual suppliers, 
including the Group, to have supplied to customers. Difference 
in deemed supply is referred to as imbalance. The reconciliation 
procedures can result in either a higher or lower value of industry 
deemed supply than has been estimated as being supplied 
to customers by the Group, but in practice tends to result in a higher 
value of deemed supply. The Group then reviews the difference 
to ascertain whether there is evidence that its estimate of amounts 
supplied to customers is inaccurate or whether the difference arises 
from other causes. The Group’ s share of the resulting imbalance 
is included within commodity costs charged to cost of sales. 
Management estimates the level of recovery of imbalance which 
will be achieved either through subsequent customer billing 
or through developing industry settlement procedures. 
The estimated cost of decommissioning at the end of the producing 
lives of fields (including storage assets) is reviewed periodically 
and is based on reserves, price levels and technology at the 
balance sheet date. Provision is made for the estimated cost 
of decommissioning at the balance sheet date. The payment dates 
of total expected future decommissioning costs are uncertain 
and dependent on the lives of the facilities, but are currently 
anticipated to be incurred until 2055, with the majority of the costs 
expected to be paid between 2020 and 2030. 
Significant judgements and estimates are also made about the costs 
of decommissioning British Energy’ s nuclear power stations and the 
costs of waste management and spent fuel. These estimates impact 
the carrying value of our investment. Various arrangements and 
indemnities are in place with the Secretary of State with respect 
to these costs, as explained in note S2. 
The volume of proven and probable (‘2P’) gas and liquids reserves is 
an estimate that affects the unit of production method of depreciating 
producing gas and liquids PP&E as well as being a significant 
estimate affecting decommissioning and impairment calculations. 
The factors impacting gas and liquids estimates, the process for 
estimating reserve quantities and reserve recognition are described 
on page 143. 
Business combinations and asset acquisitions  
Energy Company Obligation 
Metering contracts  
(b) Key sources of estimation uncertainty  
Revenue recognition – unread gas and electricity meters 
Industry reconciliation process – cost of sales 
Decommissioning costs 
Gas and liquids reserves 
Financial Statements
84 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of 
estimation uncertainty continued 
The impact of a change in estimated 2P reserves is dealt with 
prospectively by depreciating the remaining book value of producing 
assets over the expected future production. If 2P reserves estimates 
are revised downwards, earnings could be affected by higher 
depreciation expense or an immediate write-down (impairment) 
of the asset’ s book value. 
Fair values of energy derivatives are estimated by reference in part 
to published price quotations in active markets and in part by using 
valuation techniques. More detail on the assumptions used 
in determining fair valuations is provided in note 24. 
The Group has several material long-lived assets that are assessed 
or tested for impairment at each reporting date in accordance with 
the Group’ s accounting policy as described in note S2. The Group 
makes judgements and estimates in considering whether the 
carrying amounts of these assets or cash generating units (CGUs) 
are recoverable. The key assets that are subjected to impairment 
tests are upstream gas and oil assets, power generation assets, 
storage facility assets, nuclear investment (investment in associate) 
and goodwill. 
The recoverable amount of the Group’ s gas and oil assets 
is determined by discounting the post-tax cash flows expected 
to be generated by the assets over their lives. The cash flows 
are derived from projected production profiles of each field, based 
predominantly on expected 2P reserves and take into account 
forward prices for gas and liquids over the relevant period. Where 
forward market prices are not available, prices are determined based 
on internal model inputs. The recoverable amount also takes into 
account assumptions market participants would use in estimating 
fair value.  
The recoverable amount of the Group’ s power generation assets 
is calculated by discounting the pre-tax cash flows expected 
to be generated by the assets and is dependent on views of forecast 
power generation and forecast power, gas, carbon and capacity 
prices (where applicable) and the timing and extent of capital 
expenditure. Where forward market prices are not available, prices 
are determined based on internal model inputs. The prior year 
impairment charge in relation to UK gas-fired power stations 
assumed overcapacity in the UK power generation market post 
2018 will diminish and normal returns will be achievable on our 
most efficient assets.  
The recoverable amount of our planned storage facilities is calculated 
by discounting the post-tax cash flows expected to be generated 
by the assets based on predictions of seasonal gas price differentials 
and shorter term price volatilities less any related capital and 
operating expenditure. Should the business cases not support the 
planned investments, this risks a loss of pre-development costs 
incurred to date. 
The recoverable amount of the nuclear investment is based 
on the value of the existing British Energy nuclear fleet. The existing 
fleet value is calculated by discounting post-tax cash flows derived 
from the stations based on forecast power generation and power 
prices, whilst taking account of planned outages and the possibility 
of life extensions.  
Goodwill does not generate independent cash flows and accordingly 
is allocated at inception to specific CGUs or groups of CGUs for 
impairment testing purposes. The recoverable amounts of these 
CGUs are derived from estimates of future cash flows (as described 
in the asset classes above). The goodwill impairment tests are also 
subject to these key estimates.  
Further detail on impairments arising and the assumptions used in 
determining the recoverable amounts is provided in notes 14 and 15. 
The methodology for determining provisions for credit losses 
on trade and other receivables and the level of such provisions 
is set out in note 18. Although the provisions recognised are 
considered appropriate, the use of different assumptions or changes 
in economic conditions could lead to changes in the provisions 
and therefore impact profit or loss. 
The cost of providing benefits under defined benefit schemes 
is determined separately for each of the Group’ s schemes under 
the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method. Actuarial gains 
and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. 
The key assumptions used for the actuarial valuation are based 
on the Group’ s best estimate of the variables that will determine 
the ultimate cost of providing post-employment benefits, on which 
further detail is provided in notes 29 and S6. 
The Group has entered into a number of commodity procurement 
and capacity contracts related to specific assets in the ordinary 
course of its business. Where the unavoidable costs of meeting 
the obligations under these contracts exceed the associated, 
expected future net benefits, an onerous contract provision 
is recognised. The calculation of these provisions will involve 
the use of estimates. The key onerous provisions are as follows: 
The onerous provision is calculated using net revenue estimates 
related to power, gas, and carbon forward prices less the tolling 
costs. The contract runs until 2030 and there is currently no liquid 
market for these commodities for much of this period.  
The onerous provision is calculated using capacity costs incurred 
under the contracts, less any predicted income. The provision 
assumes that all contracts are onerous for the period to 2018 
but that post-2018 the remaining capacities could still be necessary 
to secure supplies of gas into the UK. Therefore no provision has 
been recognised relating to this latter period. 
The onerous nature of the power purchase agreements is measured 
using estimates relating to wind forecasts, forward curves for energy 
prices, balancing costs and renewable energy certificates for which 
there is not a liquid market for the full term of all the contracts.  
 
Determination of fair values – energy derivatives 
Impairment of long-lived assets  
Upstream gas and oil assets 
Power generation assets 
Storage facility assets 
Nuclear investment 
Goodwill 
Credit provisions for trade and other receivables  
Pensions and other post–employment benefits 
Provisions for onerous contracts 
Rijnmond power station operating lease 
European gas transportation capacity contracts 
Direct Energy wind farm power purchase agreements 
Financial Statements
85 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
4. Segmental analysis  
The Group’ s results are discussed in the Business Review (pages 5 to 50). For a description of the products and services from which each 
reportable segment derives its revenues, see note S4.  
During the year the Group renamed its external segments. Downstream UK has been renamed as British Gas, Upstream UK as Centrica 
Energy, Storage UK as Centrica Storage, and North America as Direct Energy. 
The Group’ s segmental results are as follows: 
Year ended 31 December 
 
2012
 
2011
(restated) (ii)
Gross 
segment
revenue
£m
Less inter-
segment
revenue (i) 
£m
Group
revenue
£m
Gross  
segment 
revenue 
£m 
Less inter-
segment
revenue (i)
£m
Group
revenue
£m
Continuing operations:  
Residential energy supply
 (ii)
 9,121 – 9,121 7,930 – 7,930
Residential services
 (ii)
 1,674 (131) 1,543 1,644 (81) 1,563
Business energy supply and services
 (ii)
 3,062 (10) 3,052 2,829 (7) 2,822
British Gas 13,857 (141) 13,716 12,403 (88) 12,315
  
Gas 3,712 (353) 3,359 3,571 (521) 3,050
Power  1,237 (275) 962 1,588 (179) 1,409
Centrica Energy 4,949 (628) 4,321 5,159 (700) 4,459
  
Centrica Storage 202 (38) 164 184 (20) 164
  
Residential energy supply 2,357 – 2,357 2,416 – 2,416
Business energy supply 2,690 – 2,690 2,748 – 2,748
Residential and business services 532 – 532 520 – 520
Upstream and wholesale energy 436 (274) 162 433 (231) 202
Direct Energy 6,015 (274) 5,741 6,117 (231) 5,886
 25,023 (1,081) 23,942 23,863 (1,039) 22,824
Discontinued operations:  
European Energy – – – 167 – 167
 
(i) Inter-segment revenue is subject to year-on-year fluctuations principally due to the change in the mix of internal and external energy sales.  
(ii) To align with management responsibilities and reporting, the British Gas Community Energy and British Gas New Energy businesses have been reallocated 
from the Residential energy supply segment to the Business energy supply and services and Residential services segments respectively. The 2011 comparatives 
have been restated accordingly. 
 
The Group operates in the following geographical areas: 
Revenue (based on location of customer) 
Year ended 31 December 
 
2012
£m
2011 
£m
Continuing operations: 
UK 16,991 15,760
North America 5,741 5,886
Rest of the world 1,210 1,178
 23,942 22,824
 
  
(a) Revenue 
 
Financial Statements
86 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
4. Segmental analysis continued 
Year ended 31 December 
 
 
2012
 
£m
2011
(restated) (i) 
£m
Continuing operations: 
Residential energy supply
 (i)
 606 544
Residential services
 (i)
 312 269
Business energy supply and services
 (i)
 175 192
British Gas 1,093 1,005
 
Gas
 (ii)
 919 769
Power
 (ii)
 311 254
Centrica Energy 1,230 1,023
 
Centrica Storage 89 75
 
Residential energy supply 156 161
Business energy supply 129 110
Residential and business services 33 28
Upstream and wholesale energy 13 13
Direct Energy 331 312
Adjusted operating profit – segment operating profit before exceptional items, certain  
re-measurements and impact of fair value uplifts from Strategic Investments
 (iii)
 2,743 2,415
Share of joint ventures/associates’ interest and taxation (85) (102)
Depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment – Venture
 (ii)
 (67) (64)
Depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment (net of taxation) – associates – British Energy
 (ii)
 (29) (41)
 2,562 2,208
Exceptional items (note 7) (534) (331)
Certain re-measurements included within gross profit (note 7) 603 (437)
Certain re-measurements of associates’ energy contracts (net of taxation) (note 7) (6) (26)
Operating profit after exceptional items and certain re-measurements 2,625 1,414
Discontinued operations: 
European Energy 
(iv)
 – 13
 
(i) To align with management responsibilities and reporting, the British Gas Community Energy and British Gas New Energy businesses have been reallocated from the 
Residential energy supply segment to the Business energy supply and services and Residential services segments respectively. The 2011 comparatives have been 
restated accordingly. 
(ii) See note 2 and note 11 for an explanation of the depreciation on fair value uplifts to PP&E on acquiring Strategic Investments. 
(iii) Includes results of equity-accounted interests before interest and taxation. 
(iv) Represents profit after taxation and before exceptional items and certain re-measurements of Oxxio B.V. up to the date of disposal. This is the measure of results 
of discontinued operations that is reported regularly to the Group’s Executive Committee. 
 
  
(b) Operating profit 
Financial Statements
87 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
4. Segmental analysis continued 
 
Share of results of joint
ventures and associates
before interest and taxation (i)
Depreciation and impairments of 
property, plant and equipment (iii)   
Amortisation, write-downs and 
impairments of intangibles
Year ended 31 December 
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011 
£m  
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Continuing operations:    
Residential energy supply  – – 8 8  34 23
Residential services  – – 20 18  8 6
Business energy supply and services  – – 2 2  6 7
British Gas – – 30 28  48 36
    
Gas
 (i) (ii) (iii)
 – (1) 637 503  131 52
Power
 (i) (iii)
 254 237 106 112  5 4
Centrica Energy 254 236 743 615  136 56
    
Centrica Storage – – 30 30  – –
    
Residential energy supply – – 2 1  22 9
Business energy supply – – 2 1  7 4
Residential and business services – – 3 3  7 6
Upstream and wholesale energy
 (ii)
 – – 84 89  6 4
Direct Energy – – 91 94  42 23
    
Other
 (iv)
 – – 22 19  19 25
 254 236 916 786  245 140
 
(i) Share of results of joint ventures and associates is before interest, certain re-measurements, depreciation of fair value uplifts to PP&E on Strategic Investments 
and taxation. 
(ii) During 2012, £118 million of write downs relating to exploration and evaluation assets were incurred in Centrica Energy – Gas (2011: £44 million) and £4 million were 
incurred in Direct Energy – Upstream and wholesale energy (2011: £2 million). 
(iii) Depreciation of PP&E is stated before depreciation of fair value uplifts for Strategic Investments. 
(iv) Other comprises Corporate Centre assets which are charged out to other Group segments. 
 
The Group operates in the following geographical areas: 
Non-current assets (based on location of assets)
 (i)
 
31 December 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
UK  9,788 9,146
North America 2,458 2,413
Norway 2,113 745
Rest of the world 449 467
 14,808 12,771
 
(i) Non-current assets include goodwill, other intangible assets, PP&E and interest in joint ventures and associates.  
 
(c) Included within adjusted operating profit 
(d) Assets and liabilities 
Financial Statements
88 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
4. Segmental analysis continued 
Net segment assets/(liabilities)  
Average capital employed
Year ended 31 December
31 December 
 
 
2012
£m
2011 
(restated) (i) 
£m  
2012
£m
2011
(restated) (i) (ii)
£m
   
Residential energy supply
 (i) (ii)
 (118) 28  212 325
Residential services
 (i) (ii)
 349 264  289 247
Business energy supply and services
 (i) (ii)
 645 645  714 645
British Gas 876 937  1,215 1,217
   
Gas  3,447 2,427  1,868 1,500
Power  3,671 3,534  2,995 3,335
Centrica Energy 7,118 5,961  4,863 4,835
   
Centrica Storage 510 517  301 221
   
Residential energy supply
 (ii)
 800 925  840 716
Business energy supply
 (ii)
 534 459  413 316
Residential and business services
 (ii)
 393 377  371 367
Upstream and wholesale energy
 (ii)
 720 733  743 736
Direct Energy 2,447 2,494  2,367 2,135
 10,951 9,909  8,746 8,408
   
Unallocated current and deferred tax balances  (7) 186  
Certain derivative financial instruments
 (iii) 
 (553) (1,214)  
Bank overdrafts and loans, securities and treasury derivatives (5,054) (3,868)  
Net retirement benefit asset 88 330  
Corporate Centre assets and discontinued operations  502 257  
Non-operating liabilities (5,024) (4,309)  
Net assets 5,927 5,600  
 
(i) To align with management responsibilities and reporting, the British Gas Community Energy and British Gas New Energy businesses have been reallocated from the 
Residential energy supply segment to the Business energy supply and services and Residential services segments respectively. The 2011 comparatives have been 
restated accordingly. 
(ii) To align with management reporting, capital employed in British Gas and Direct Energy has been adjusted to include assets under construction. The 2011 
comparatives have been restated accordingly. 
(iii) Includes balances held by joint ventures/associates. 
 
Capital employed represents the investment required to operate each of the Group’ s segments. Capital employed is used by the Group 
to calculate the return on capital employed for each of the Group’ s segments as part of the Group’ s ‘managing for value’ concept. Additional 
value is created when the return on capital employed exceeds the cost of capital. Net segment assets of the Group can be reconciled 
to the Group’ s capital employed as follows: 
Year ended 31 December 
   
2012
£m
2011
£m
Net segment assets at 31 December    10,951 9,909
Effect of averaging net segment assets   177 475
Deduct:     
Average intra-group balances   55 49
Average pre-productive assets   (1,987) (1,592)
Average margin call debtor    (114) (73)
Average cash at bank, in transit and in hand excluding certain restricted cash   (336) (360)
Average capital employed   8,746 8,408
 
(d) Assets and liabilities continued 
 
Financial Statements
89 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
4. Segmental analysis continued 
Capital expenditure on  
property, plant and  
equipment (note 15)   
Capital expenditure on
intangible assets other 
than goodwill (note 14)
Year ended 31 December 
 
    
2012
 
£m
2011 
(restated) (i) 
£m  
2012
 
£m
2011
 
£m
Continuing operations:          
Residential energy supply
 (i)
        7 28  230 240
Residential services
 (i)
        44 26  9 22
Business energy supply and services
 (i) 
        9 3  91 75
British Gas        60 57  330 337
          
Gas 
(ii)
        1,733 488  380 97
Power         76 89  8 6
Centrica Energy        1,809 577  388 103
          
Centrica Storage        42 59  1 –
          
Residential energy supply        – –  3 4
Business energy supply        – 1  27 18
Residential and business services        3 2  2 1
Upstream and wholesale energy        79 36  14 8
Direct Energy        82 39  46 31
Other 17 26  64 49
Capital expenditure on continuing operations     2,010 758  829 520
Decrease in prepayments related to capital expenditure (4) (15)  – –
Capitalised borrowing costs (53) (46)  (7) –
(Increase)/decrease in payables related to capital expenditure (158) 68  – (5)
Purchases of emissions allowances and renewable obligations certificates  – –  (250) (216)
Net cash outflow        1,795 765  572 299
 
(i) To align with management responsibilities and reporting, the British Gas Community Energy and British Gas New Energy businesses have been reallocated from the 
Residential energy supply segment to the Business energy supply and services and Residential services segments respectively. The 2011 comparatives have been 
restated accordingly. 
(ii) During the period, £1,175 million of assets were acquired from Statoil, ConocoPhillips and Total. See note 30. 
(e) Capital expenditure 
 
Financial Statements
90 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
5. Costs of continuing operations  
Year ended 31 December 
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Transportation, distribution and metering costs (3,835) 
 
(3,718)
Commodity costs (10,750) 
 
(10,918)
Depreciation, amortisation and write-downs (843) 
 
(757)
Employee costs  (713) 
 
(672)
Other direct costs relating to the upstream businesses (694) 
 
(389)
Other direct costs relating to the downstream businesses (1,841) 
 
(1,505)
Total cost of sales before exceptional items and certain re-measurements (18,676) 
 
(17,959)
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements (note 7) 514 
 
(658)
Total cost of sales (18,162) 
 
(18,617)
  
 
Depreciation, amortisation and write-downs (385) 
 
(233)
Employee costs (1,149) 
 
(1,188)
Impairment of trade receivables (note 18)  (206) 
 
(222)
Other costs associated with upstream businesses (140) 
 
(211)
Other costs associated with downstream businesses (964) 
 
(896)
Total operating costs before exceptional items and certain re-measurements (2,844) 
 
(2,750)
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements (note 7)  (445) 
 
(110)
Total operating costs (3,289) 
 
(2,860)
 
6. Directors and employees 
Year ended 31 December 
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Wages and salaries (1,611)
 
(1,562)
Social security costs (140)
 
(137)
Pension and other post-employment benefits costs  (97)
 
(129)
Share scheme costs (43)
 
(40)
 (1,891)
 
(1,868)
Capitalised employee costs 29
 
8
Employee costs recognised in the Income Statement (1,862)
 
(1,860)
 
(i) Details of Directors’ remuneration, share-based payments and pension entitlements in the Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 75 form part of these Financial 
Statements. Details of the remuneration of key management personnel are given in note 34. 
 
 
2012
Number
2011
Number
British Gas 30,305 31,278
Centrica Energy 1,788 1,658
Centrica Storage 306 290
Direct Energy 6,243 6,206
 38,642 39,432
 
 
 
Analysis of costs by nature 
(a) Employee costs
 (i)
 
(b) Average number of employees during the year 
Financial Statements
91 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
7. Exceptional items and certain re-measurements 
Year ended 31 December 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Continuing operations:  
Provision for Direct Energy wind power purchase agreements
 (i)
 (89) –
Provision for European onerous capacity contracts – (221)
Exceptional items from continuing operations included within gross profit (89) (221)
Impairment of UK generation assets – (226)
British Gas contract migration – (63)
Restructuring charges
 (ii)
 (214) (154)
Pension curtailment (note 29) – 333
Impairment of investment in nuclear new build (notes 16 and 36) (231) –
 (445) (110)
Exceptional items from continuing operations included within Group operating profit (534) (331)
T axation on exceptional items (note 9) 93 69
Effect of change in upstream UK tax rates (note 9) (40) (204)
Net exceptional items from continuing operations after taxation (481) (466)
Discontinued operations:  
Loss on disposal of Oxxio B.V . after taxation (note 31) – (56)
Total exceptional items after taxation (481) (522)
 
Year ended 31 December 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Continuing operations:  
Certain re-measurements recognised in relation to energy contracts:   
Net gains arising on delivery of contracts
 (iii)
 745 200
Net losses arising on market price movements and new contracts
 (iv)
 (135) (632)
Net losses arising on positions in relation to cross-border transportation or capacity contracts  (7) (5)
Net re-measurements from continuing operations included within gross profit 603 (437)
Net losses arising on re-measurement of associates’ energy contracts (net of taxation) 
(v)
 (6) (26)
Net re-measurements included within Group operating profit 597 (463)
T axation on certain re-measurements (note 9) (193) 119
Net re-measurements from continuing operations after taxation 404 (344)
Discontinued operations:  
Net re-measurements on energy contracts of discontinued operations after taxation – 22
Total re-measurements after taxation 404 (322)
 
(i) An exceptional charge has been recognised in relation to wind power purchase agreements in Direct Energy to reflect the fair value of the obligation to purchase power 
above its net realisable value. 
(ii) As a result of a Group-wide cost reduction programme, restructuring charges have been recorded including staff redundancies, onerous lease charges and £48 million 
of asset impairments. See Business Review for more details. 
(iii) As energy is delivered or consumed from previously contracted positions the related fair value recognised in the opening Balance Sheet (representing the discounted 
difference between forward energy prices at the opening Balance Sheet date and the contract price of energy to be delivered) is charged or credited to the Income 
Statement. 
(iv) Represents fair value losses arising from the change in fair value of future contracted sales and purchase contracts as a result of changes in forward energy prices 
between reporting dates (or date of inception and the reporting date, where later). 
(v) Includes fair value unwinds relating to the recognition of energy procurement contracts and energy sales contracts at their acquisition-date fair values. 
 
(a) Exceptional items 
(b) Certain re-measurements 
Financial Statements
92 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
8. Net interest 
Year ended 31 December 2012  2011
 
Interest
expense
£m
Interest
income
£m
Total
£m
Interest 
expense 
£m  
Interest
income
£m
Total
£m
Continuing operations:   
Cost of servicing net debt:   
Interest income – 39 39 –  37 37
Interest expense on bonds, bank loans and overdrafts
 (i) 
(232) – (232) (176)  – (176)
Interest expense on finance leases (18) – (18) (19)  – (19)
 (250) 39 (211) (195)  37 (158)
(Losses)/gains on revaluation:    
(Losses)/gains on fair value hedges  (22) 31 9 (83)  72 (11)
Fair value (losses)/gains on other derivatives
 (ii)
 (155) 132 (23) (71)  35 (36)
Fair value gains on other securities measured at fair value – 3 3 –  14 14
Net foreign exchange translation of monetary  
assets and liabilities
 (iii) 
 (10) – (10) –  19 19
 (187) 166 (21) (154)  140 (14)
   
Notional interest arising from discounting and other interest 
(iv)
 (60) 49 (11) (55)  35 (20)
 (497) 254 (243) (404)  212 (192)
Capitalised borrowing costs
 (v)
 60 – 60 46  – 46
Interest (expense)/income (437) 254 (183) (358)  212 (146)
 
(i) During 2012 the Group increased its outstanding bond debt principal by £1,250 million, €150 million and HK$450 million, and decreased it by £284 million. 
See note 12(c). 
(ii) Primarily reflects changes in the fair value of derivatives used to hedge the foreign exchange exposure associated with inter-company loans denominated 
in foreign currencies.  
(iii) Primarily reflects foreign exchange (losses)/gains on loans denominated in foreign currencies. 
(iv) Other includes interest received for cash collateral balances, supplier early payment arrangements and a net £45 million (2011: £27 million) relating to pension schemes. 
(v) Borrowing costs have been capitalised using an average rate of 4.70% (2011: 4.94%). 
 
9. Taxation 
Year ended 31 December 2012 2011
 
Business 
performance
£m
Exceptional items 
and certain 
re-measurements
£m
Results for 
the year 
£m
Business 
performance 
£m 
Exceptional items 
and certain 
re-measurements
£m
Results for
 the year 
£m
Current tax  
UK corporation tax  (376) 14 (362) (529) 69 (460)
UK petroleum revenue tax (208) – (208) (220) – (220)
Foreign tax (285) (7) (292) (107) 10 (97)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (53) – (53) 23 – 23
Total current tax (922) 7 (915) (833) 79 (754)
Deferred tax  
Current year  (143) (86) (229) (40) 90 50
UK petroleum revenue tax 13 – 13 46 – 46
Foreign deferred tax (70) (11) (81) (24) 17 (7)
Change in tax rates  40 (50) (10) 30 (201) (171)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 53 – 53 11 (1) 10
Total deferred tax (107) (147) (254) 23 (95) (72)
Total tax on profit from continuing operations
 (i)
 (1,029) (140) (1,169) (810) (16) (826)
 
(i) Total tax on profit from operations excludes taxation on the Group’s share of profits in joint ventures and associates. 
 
T ax on items taken directly to equity is disclosed in notes 27 and 28. The Group earns its profits primarily in the UK, therefore the tax rate 
used for tax on profit from ordinary activities is the standard rate for UK corporation tax, which from 1 April 2012 was 24% (2011: 26%), 
with the exception of upstream profits, which were taxed at a UK corporation tax rate of 30% (2011: 30%) plus a supplementary charge 
of 32% (2011: 32%). On 3 July 2012, the UK Government substantively enacted the restriction on the rate of tax relief on oil and gas 
decommissioning costs from the current 62% to 50%. A one-off exceptional charge of £40 million has been recognised from revaluing the 
related deferred tax provisions.  
(a) Analysis of tax charge 
Financial Statements
93 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
9. Taxation continued 
Certain upstream assets also bear petroleum revenue tax at 50% (2011: 50%). Norwegian upstream profits are taxed at the standard rate of 
28% (2011: 28%) plus a special tax of 50% (2011: 50%) resulting in an aggregate tax rate of 78%. T axation for other jurisdictions is calculated 
at the rates prevailing in those respective jurisdictions.  
The UK Government has announced its intention to propose that Parliament reduce the main rate of UK corporation tax to 21% 
by 1 April 2014. At 31 December 2012 a reduction in the rate to 23% had been substantively enacted so the relevant UK deferred tax assets 
and liabilities included in these Financial Statements have been based on that rate. The effect of the additional proposed reduction in the UK 
corporation tax rate by 2014 would be to decrease the net deferred tax liability by £18 million. 
The differences between the total tax shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax 
to the profit before tax are as follows: 
Year ended 31 December 2012 2011
 
Business
performance
£m
Exceptional items 
and certain 
re-measurements
£m
Results for 
the year 
£m
Business 
performance 
£m 
Exceptional items 
and certain 
re-measurements
£m
Results for
the year 
£m
Profit from continuing operations before tax 2,379 63 2,442 2,062 (794)1,268
Less: share of profits in joint ventures and associates, 
net of interest and taxation (140) 6 (134) (93) 26 (67)
Group profit from continuing operations before tax 2,239 69 2,308 1,969 (768)1,201
T ax on profit from continuing operations at standard 
UK corporation tax rate of 24.5% (2011: 26.5%) (549) (17) (566) (522) 204 (318)
Effects of:  
Net expenses not deductible for tax purposes (77) (56) (133) (20) – (20)
Movement in unrecognised deferred tax assets   (20) – (20) (28) (31) (59)
UK petroleum revenue tax rates (149) – (149) (128) – (128)
Overseas tax rates (39) (6) (45) (24) 15 (9)
Additional charges applicable to upstream profits (235) (11) (246) (152) (2) (154)
Changes to tax rates 40 (50) (10) 30 (201) (171)
Adjustments in respect of prior years – – – 34 (1) 33
Taxation on profit from continuing operations (1,029) (140) (1,169) (810) (16) (826)
 
Production of gas and oil within the UK continental shelf is subject to several taxes: corporation tax at 30% (2011: 30%) on profits of gas 
and oil production; a supplementary charge at 32% (2011: 32%) on profits of gas and oil production (adjusted for financing costs) 
and petroleum revenue tax (PRT) at 50% (2011: 50%) on income generated from certain gas and oil production (net of certain costs). 
PRT is a deductible expense for the purposes of corporation tax and the supplementary charge. The rate of tax suffered on profits 
of UK gas production therefore falls between 62% and 81% (2011: 62% and 81%). T o the extent that the Group’ s profits are earned from 
UK gas and oil production, its effective tax rate will remain above the current UK statutory rate of 24% (2011: 26%). 
Income earned in territories outside the UK, notably in the USA and Norway, is generally subject to higher effective rates of tax than 
the current UK statutory rate. In the medium term, the Group’ s effective tax rate is expected to remain above the UK statutory rate. 
10. Dividends 
 2012 2011
 £m
Pence per
share
Date of
payment £m 
Pence per
share
Date of
payment
Prior year final dividend  576 11.11 13 Jun 2012 540 10.46 15 Jun 2011
Interim dividend  240 4.62 14 Nov 2012 222 4.29 16 Nov 2011
 816 762 
 
The Directors propose a final dividend of 11.78 pence per ordinary share (totalling £602 million) for the year ended 31 December 2012. The 
dividend will be submitted for formal approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 13 May 2013 and, subject to approval, will be paid 
on 12 June 2013 to those shareholders registered on 26 April 2013.
(b) Factors affecting the tax charge 
(c) Factors that may affect future tax charges 
Financial Statements
94 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
11. Earnings per ordinary share 
Basic earnings per ordinary share has been calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to equity holders of the Company for the year 
of £1,273 million (2011: £421 million) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year of 5,183 million 
(2011: 5,159 million). The number of shares excludes six million ordinary shares (2011: seven million), being the weighted average number 
of the Company’ s own shares held in the employee share trust. The Directors believe that the presentation of adjusted basic earnings per 
ordinary share, being the basic earnings per ordinary share adjusted for certain re-measurements, exceptional items and the impact of 
Strategic Investments, assists with understanding the underlying performance of the Group, as explained in note 2.  
The reconciliation of basic to adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share is as follows: 
Year ended 31 December 2012  2011
 £m
Pence per 
ordinary 
share  £m
Pence per
ordinary
share
Earnings – basic 1,273 24.6  421 8.2
Net exceptional items after taxation (notes 2 and 7) 481 9.2  522 10.1
Certain re-measurement (gains)/losses after taxation (notes 2 and 7) (404) (7.8)  322 6.2
Depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment from 
Strategic Investments, after taxation 56 1.1  68 1.3
Earnings – adjusted basic 1,406 27.1  1,333 25.8
   
Earnings – diluted 1,273 24.4  421 8.1
   
Earnings – adjusted diluted 1,406 27.0  1,333 25.6
 
During 2009, the Group acquired a 20% interest in British Energy and the entire share capital of Venture. As explained in note 2, 
the depreciation relating to fair value uplifts of the acquired Venture PP&E and associated taxation is excluded in arriving at adjusted 
earnings for the year, which amounted to £67 million (2011: £64 million) depreciation and a taxation credit of £40 million (2011: £37 million) 
in the period. Additionally, the impact of depreciation arising on fair value uplifts attributed to the British Energy nuclear power stations 
and related taxation included within the Group’ s share of the post-taxation results of the associate is excluded in arriving at adjusted earnings 
for the period, which amounted to £29 million (2011: £41 million) net of taxation. 
Year ended 31 December 2012  2011
 £m
Pence per 
ordinary 
share  £m
Pence per
ordinary
share
Earnings – basic 1,273 24.6  442 8.6
Net exceptional items after taxation (notes 2 and 7) 481 9.2  466 9.0
Certain re-measurement (gains)/losses after taxation (notes 2 and 7) (404) (7.8)  344 6.7
Depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment from 
Strategic Investments, after taxation 56 1.1  68 1.3
Earnings – adjusted basic 1,406 27.1  1,320 25.6
    
Earnings – diluted 1,273 24.4  442 8.5
   
Earnings – adjusted diluted 1,406 27.0  1,320 25.4
 
Year ended 31 December 2012  2011
 
£m
Pence per 
ordinary 
share  £m
Pence per
ordinary
share
Loss – basic and diluted – –  (21) (0.4)
 
Certain re-measurements (notes 2 and 7) included within operating profit and discontinued operations comprise certain re-measurements 
arising on energy procurement activities and re-measurements of proprietary trades in relation to cross-border transportation or capacity 
contracts. All other re-measurements are included within results before exceptional items and certain re-measurements. 
In addition to basic and adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share, information is presented for diluted and adjusted diluted earnings per 
ordinary share. Under this presentation, no adjustments are made to the reported earnings for either 2012 or 2011, however the weighted 
average number of shares used as the denominator is adjusted for potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
(a) Continuing and discontinued operations 
Strategic Investments 
(b) Continuing operations 
(c) Discontinued operations 
Financial Statements
95 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
11. Earnings per ordinary share continued 
 
2012 
Million 
shares 
2011
Million
shares
Weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share 5,183 5,159
Dilutive impact of share-based payment schemes  33 44
Weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per  
ordinary share 5,216 5,203
 
12. Sources of finance 
The Group funds its business using a combination of debt and equity. 
31 December 
 
 
2012 
 
£m 
2011 
(restated) (i)
£m
Net debt  4,047 3,292
Equity 5,927 5,600
Capital 9,974 8,892
 
(i) To align with management reporting, net debt has been restated to include mark-to-market values on derivative financial instruments used to hedge offsetting changes 
in borrowings. See note 12(b). 
 
The Group seeks to maintain an efficient capital structure with a balance of debt and equity. Debt levels are restricted to limit the risk 
of financial distress and, in particular, to maintain strong credit ratings. The Group’ s credit ratings are important for several reasons, to: 
 maintain a low cost of debt; 
 limit collateral requirements in energy trading, hedging and decommissioning security arrangements; and 
 ensure the Group is an attractive counterparty to energy producers and long term customers. 
At 31 December 2012, the Group’ s long-term credit rating was A3 stable outlook for Moody’ s Investors Service Limited and A- stable outlook 
for Standard & Poor’ s Credit Market Services Europe Limited. These ratings did not change during 2012.  
The Group monitors its current and projected capital position on a regular basis, considering a medium-term view of three to five years, 
and different stress case scenarios, including the impact of changes in the Group’ s credit ratings and significant movements in commodity 
prices. A number of financial ratios are monitored, including those used by the credit rating agencies, such as debt to cash flow ratios 
and adjusted EBITDA to gross interest expense. At 31 December 2012, the ratio of the Group’ s net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 1.1 
(2011: 1.1). Adjusted EBITDA to gross interest expense for the year ended 31 December 2012 was 8.4 (2011: 8.7). 
British Gas Insurance Limited (BGIL) is required under FSA regulations to hold a minimum capital amount and has complied with this 
requirement in 2012 (and 2011). For the remainder of the Group, the level of debt that can be raised is restricted by the Company’ s Articles 
of Association. Net debt is limited to the greater of £5.0 billion and a gearing ratio of three times adjusted capital and reserves. Based 
on adjusted capital and reserves as at 31 December 2012 of £5.9 billion, the limit for net debt was £17.8 billion. The Group funds its debt 
principally through issuing bonds. In addition the Group also maintains substantial committed facilities from banks (see note 25), but generally 
uses these to provide backup liquidity and does not typically draw on them. 
31 December 
 
 
2012
£m
2011
(restated) (i)
£m
Cash at bank, in transit and in hand 201 94
Short-term deposits 730 424
Cash and cash equivalents
 (ii)
 931 518
Securities – current
 (iii)
 7 28
Securities – non-current
 (iii) (iv)
 199 190
Current and non-current borrowings  (5,328) (4,171)
Derivatives 144 143
Net debt (4,047) (3,292)
 
(i) To align with management reporting, net debt has been restated to include mark-to-market values on derivative financial instruments used to hedge offsetting changes 
in borrowings. 
(ii) Cash and cash equivalents includes £241 million (2011: £262 million) of restricted cash mostly held by the Group’s insurance undertakings that is not readily available 
to be used for other purposes within the Group. 
(iii) Securities balances include £76 million of available-for-sale financial assets (2011: £90 million). 
(iv) Non-current securities include £130 million (2011: £128 million) of index-linked gilts which management use for short term liquidity management purposes. 
 
(d) Weighted average number of shares 
(a) Group funding 
(b) Net debt summary 
Financial Statements
96 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
12. Sources of finance continued 
31 December 
 
 
Coupon rate 
% 
Principal 
m
Current
£m
Non-current
£m
2012
Total
£m
Current 
£m 
Non-current
£m
2011
Total
£m
Bank overdrafts and loans
 (i)
  33 336 369 69 198 267
Bonds (by maturity date):   
2 November 2012 5.875 £284 – – – 291 – 291
27 February 2013 1.045 ¥3,000 22 – 22 – 26 26
9 December 2013 7.125 €367 305 – 305 – 317 317
4 November 2014 Floating $100 – 62 62 – 64 64
10 December 2014 5.125 £315 – 332 332 – 335 335
31 March 2015 Floating $70 – 44 44 – 45 45
24 October 2016 5.500 £300 – 338 338 – 336 336
19 September 2018  7.000 £400 – 479 479 – 473 473
1 February 2019 3.213 €100 – 83 83 – – –
22 February 2022 3.680 HK$450 – 36 36 – – –
10 March 2022 6.375 £500 – 527 527 – 527 527
4 September 2026 6.400 £200 – 228 228 – 224 224
16 April 2027 5.900 $70 – 43 43 – 45 45
13 March 2029 4.375 £750 – 766 766 – – –
5 January 2032
 (ii)
 Zero €50 – 41 41 – – –
19 September 2033  7.000 £770 – 777 777 – 777 777
12 September 2044 4.250 £500 – 495 495 – – –
  327 4,251 4,578 291 3,169 3,460
Commercial paper  82 – 82 114 – 114
Obligations under finance leases  30 269 299 28 302 330
   472 4,856 5,328 502 3,669 4,171
 
(i) At 31 December the maturity analysis for non-current bank loans was: 1-2 years £15 million, 2-5 years nil and >5 years £321 million (2011: 1-2 years £34 million,  
2-5 years £18 million and >5 years £146 million). 
(ii) During the period, the Group issued €50 million of zero coupon notes with an accrual yield of 4.200%, which will result in a €114 million repayment on maturity. 
 
13. Notes to the Group Cash Flow Statement 
Year ended 31 December 
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Group operating profit including share of results of joint ventures and associates 2,625 1,414
Less share of profit of joint ventures and associates (134) (67)
Group operating profit before share of results of joint ventures and associates 2,491 1,347
Add back/(deduct): 
Amortisation, write-down and impairment of intangible assets 289 140
Depreciation, write-down and impairment of property, plant and equipment 987 1,055
Impairment of associate 231 –
Recycling of write-down of available-for-sale financial assets  – 23
(Profit)/loss on sale of businesses, property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets (38) 5
Increase in provisions 201 395
Defined benefit pension curtailment gain (3) (332)
Defined benefit pension service cost 87 118
Defined benefit pension contributions (136) (130)
Employee share scheme costs 43 40
Re-measurement of energy contracts 
(i)
 (610) 404
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 3,542 3,065
Increase in inventories (88) (79)
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables
 (ii) 
 (210) 201
Increase in trade and other payables
 (ii) 
 361 42
Cash generated from continuing operations 3,605 3,229
 
(i) Adds back unrealised (gains)/losses arising from re-measurement of energy contracts. 
(ii) Includes net inflow of £114 million of cash collateral in 2012 (2011: net outflow of £26 million). See note 25.  
(c) Borrowings summary 
(a) Reconciliation of Group operating profit to cash generated from continuing operations 
Financial Statements
97 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
13. Notes to the Group Cash Flow Statement continued 
 
2012 
 
£m 
2011
restated (i)
£m
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  452 30
Add back/(deduct):  
Net sale of securities (26) (48)
Cash inflow from additional debt (1,712) (114)
Cash outflow from payment of capital element of finance leases 31 25
Cash outflow from repayment of other debt  471 30
Cash outflow from settlement of derivative contracts related to borrowings 14 –
 (770) (77)
Revaluation of:  
Securities 10 10
Loans and other borrowings 2 (59)
Derivative contracts related to borrowings (12) 26
 (770) (100)
Increase in interest payable on loans and other borrowings  (41) (2)
Acquisitions 5 (3)
Exchange adjustments 46 8
Other non-cash movements 5 –
Movement in net debt  (755) (97)
Net debt at 1 January  (3,292) (3,195)
Net debt at 31 December (4,047) (3,292)
 
(i) To align with management reporting, net debt has been restated to include mark-to-market values on derivative financial instruments used to hedge offsetting changes 
in borrowings. See note 12(b). 
 
Included within the £572 million (2011: £299 million) purchase of intangible assets in investing activities is £370 million (2011: £85 million) 
relating to exploration and evaluation of oil and gas assets. 
Year ended 31 December 
 
UK
£m
Non-UK
£m
2012 
£m 
UK 
£m 
Non-UK
£m
2011
£m
Current tax charge:   
Corporation tax  433 274 707 438 96 534
Petroleum revenue tax 208 – 208 220 – 220
 641 274 915 658 96 754
T axes paid:   
Corporation tax  139 193 332 389 41 430
Petroleum revenue tax  192 – 192 262 – 262
 331 193 524 651 41 692
 
Differences between current tax charged and taxes paid arose principally due to the following factors:  
 Corporation tax is generally paid, based on estimated profits, partly during the year and partly in the following year and cash tax balancing 
on agreement with tax authorities will also occur in future periods. Fluctuations in profits from year to year may therefore give rise to 
divergence between the charge for the current year and taxes paid; and 
 Petroleum revenue tax payments are based on income realised in the preceding period, with subsequent adjustments to reflect actual 
profits. Variations in production from period to period may therefore lead to temporary differences between tax charged and tax paid. 
  
(b) Reconciliation of net increase in cash and cash equivalents to movement in net debt 
(c) Exploration and evaluation cash flows 
(d) Relationship between current tax charge and taxes paid 
Financial Statements
98 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
14. Goodwill and other intangible assets 
    2012  2011
 
Goodwill 
£m 
Application 
software  
(i)  
£m 
EUAs   
and  
ROCs 
£m 
Exploration 
and evaluation 
expenditure 
£m
Other 
 (ii)
£m
Total
£m
Goodwill 
£m
Application 
software  
(i)  
£m 
EUAs   
and 
ROCs 
£m 
Exploration
and evaluation
expenditure 
£m
Other 
(ii)
£m
Total
£m
Cost      
1 January   2,526 959 122 306 351 4,264 2,378 796 186 376 231 3,967
Additions – 205 250 370 4 829 – 219 216 85 – 520
Acquisitions (note 30) 74 – – 6 42 122 153 4 – –129 286
Disposals  – (22) – – (5) (27) – (66) – (6) – (72)
Surrenders – – (227) – – (227) – – (280) – – (280)
Write-downs – – – (122) – (122) – – – (46) – (46)
Transfers
 (iii)
 – – – – – – – – – (100)(12) (112)
Exchange adjustments (47) (5) (1) 6 (10) (57) (5) 6 – (3) 3 1
31 December  2,553 1,137 144 566 382 4,782 2,526 959 122 306 351 4,264
Accumulated amortisation 
and impairment     
1 January  8 407 4 – 106 525 8 401 16 – 88 513
Amortisation – 79 – –31 110 – 74 – – 14 88
Impairments 2 49 6 – – 57 – – 3 – 3 6
Disposals – (18) – – (5) (23) – (66) – – – (66)
Surrenders – – (4) – – (4) – – (15) – – (15)
Exchange adjustments – (2) – – (3) (5) – (2) – – 1 (1)
31 December  10 515 6 – 129 660 8 407 4 –106 525
NBV at 31 December  2,543 622 138 566 253 4,122 2,518 552 118 306 245 3,739
 
(i) Application software includes assets under construction with a cost of £315 million (2011: £334 million). Additions to application software includes £7 million (2011: nil) 
of capitalised borrowing costs. 
(ii) Mainly includes customer relationships and brands.  
(iii) Includes transfers between other Balance Sheet captions, such as from intangible assets to property, plant and equipment. 
 
Goodwill acquired through business combinations and indefinite-lived intangible assets have been allocated for impairment testing purposes 
to individual or groups of CGUs each representing the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset 
is monitored for internal management purposes as follows:  
31 December  2012  2011
CGU(s) 
Principal acquisitions to which 
goodwill and intangibles with indefinite 
useful lives relate 
Carrying
amount of
goodwill
£m
Carrying amount 
of indefinite-lived
intangible
asset (i)
£m
Total
£m 
Carrying 
amount of 
goodwill  
(restated) (iii) 
£m 
Carrying amount 
of indefinite-lived
 intangible 
  asset (i)
£m
Total 
£m
British Gas – Business energy 
supply and services Enron Direct/Electricity Direct 
(iii)
 178 – 178 178 – 178
British Gas – Residential 
services Dyno-Rod 
(iii)
 38 57 95 38 57 95
Centrica Energy – Upstream  
gas and oil  Newfield/Heimdal/Venture 929 – 929 927 – 927
Direct Energy – Residential 
energy supply 
Direct Energy/ATCO/ 
CPL/WTU/FCP 742 – 742 761 – 761
Direct Energy – Business  
energy supply 
Direct Energy/ATCO/ 
Strategic Energy/FCP 229 – 229 212 – 212
Direct Energy – Residential  
and business services 
Enbridge Services/Residential 
Services Group/Clockwork 311 12 323 289 9 298
Other Various 
(ii) (iii)
 116 1 117 113 1 114
  2,543 70 2,613 2,518 67 2,585
 
(i) The indefinite-lived assets mainly relate to Mr Sparky and Benjamin Franklin brands, acquired as part of the Clockwork business combination, and the Dyno-Rod brand. 
(ii) Consists of goodwill balances allocated across multiple CGUs including £33 million for Centrica Storage (2011: £33 million) and £67 million for Trinidad and Tobago 
(2011: £70 million). 
(iii) To align with changes to British Gas management responsibilities and reporting, goodwill has been reallocated from Other to British Gas – Business energy supply 
and services and British Gas – Residential services. The 2011 comparatives have been restated accordingly. 
 
(a) Carrying amounts 
(b) Carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives allocated to CGUs 
Financial Statements
99 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
14. Goodwill and other intangible assets continued 
Value in use calculations have been used to determine recoverable amounts for all of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset 
balances, with the exception of the impairment tests for the Centrica Energy – Upstream gas and oil CGUs, where fair value less costs 
to sell has been used as the basis for determining recoverable amount. 
The VIU calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on the Group’ s Board-approved three-year business plans. The Group’s 
business plans are based on past experience, and adjusted to reflect market trends, economic conditions, key risks, the implementation 
of strategic objectives and changes in commodity prices, as appropriate. Commodity prices used in the planning process are based in part 
on observable market data and in part on internal estimates. The extent to which the commodity prices used in the business plans are based 
on observable market data is determined by the extent to which the market for the underlying commodity is judged to be active. Note 24 
provides additional detail on the active period of each of the commodity markets in which the Group operates.  
(i) Growth rates and discount rates 
Cash flows beyond the three-year plan period have been extrapolated using long-term growth rates in the market where the CGU operates. 
Long-term growth rates are determined using a blend of publicly available historical data and long-term growth rate forecasts published 
by external analysts. Cash flows are discounted using a discount rate specific to each CGU. Discount rates reflect the current market 
assessments of the time value of money and are based on the estimated cost of capital of each CGU. Additionally, risks specific to the cash 
flows of the CGUs are reflected within cash flow forecasts. Each CGU’ s weighted average cost of capital is then adjusted to reflect the impact 
of tax in order to calculate an equivalent pre-tax discount rate. Long-term growth rates and pre-tax discount rates used in the VIU calculations 
for each of the Group’ s CGUs are provided in the table below: 
2012 
British Gas –
Business energy 
supply and services
British Gas – 
Residential services
Direct Energy –
Residential  
energy supply
Direct Energy – 
Business  
energy supply 
Direct Energy –
Residential and 
business services
Growth rate to perpetuity 1.9% 1.9% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0%
Pre-tax discount rate   7.5% 7.5% 8.5% 8.5% 8.5%
 
2011 
British Gas –
Business energy 
supply and services
British Gas – 
Residential services
Direct Energy –
Residential  
energy supply
Direct Energy – 
Business  
energy supply 
Direct Energy –
Residential and 
business services
Growth rate to perpetuity 2.0% 2.0% 2.1% 2.1% 2.1%
Pre-tax discount rate   7.5% 7.5% 8.5% 8.5% 8.5%
 
(ii) Inflation rates 
Inflation rates used in the three-year business plan were based on a blend of a number of publicly available inflation forecasts for the UK, 
Canada and the US. Inflation rates used for the value in use calculations were as follows: UK: 1.9% (2011: 2.0%), Canada: 2.0% 
(2011: 2.1%) and the US: 2.3% (2011: 2.6%). 
(iii) Key operating assumptions by CGUs using VIU 
The key operating assumptions across all CGUs are Gross Margin, Revenues and Operating Costs. Each of these assumptions is tailored 
to the specific CGU using management’ s knowledge of the environment, as shown in the table overleaf.  
(c) Key assumptions used 
Value in use (VIU) 
Financial Statements
100 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
14. Goodwill and other intangible assets continued 
CGU  Gross margin Revenues Operating costs 
British Gas – Business 
energy supply and 
services 
Existing customers: based on contractual terms. 
New customers and renewals: based on gross 
margins achieved in the period leading up to 
date of the business plan.  
Both adjusted for current market conditions and 
transportation cost inflation. 
Market share: percentage immediately prior to 
business plan. 
Adjusted for: growth forecasts which are based 
on sales and marketing activity and recent 
customer acquisitions.  
Gas and electricity revenues based on forward 
market prices. 
Wages: projected headcount in line with 
expected activity. Salary increases based 
on inflation expectations. 
Credit losses: historical assumptions 
regarding provisions have been updated 
to reflect the current UK environment. 
British Gas – Residential 
services 
Future sales: based on percentages achieved in 
the period up to the approval of the business 
plan. 
Market share: percentage immediately prior to 
business plan. 
Adjusted for: change in growth rates to reflect 
the current economic environment in the UK. 
Wages: projected headcount in line with 
expected efficiency programme.  
Direct Energy – 
Residential energy 
supply 
 
Existing customers: based on contractual terms. 
New customers and renewals: based on gross 
margins achieved in the period leading up to 
date of the business plan.  
Adjusted for: competitor data.  
Regulated gross margin percentages are based 
on regulatory applications submitted to the 
Alberta Utilities Commission in Canada.  
Market share: average percentage immediately 
prior to business plan. 
Adjusted for: expectations of growth or decline 
to reflect regulatory or competitive differences. 
This includes a continued decline in Ontario 
revenues as a result of the challenging regulatory 
environment. 
 
Wages: projected headcount in line with 
expected activity. Salary increases based 
on inflation expectations.  
Future developments: slight reduction in 
costs to reflect planned business process 
efficiencies.  
Customer acquisition: based on 
experience of costs required to support 
acquisition, renewal and other servicing 
activities.  
Direct Energy –  
Business energy supply 
Existing customers: based on contractual terms. 
New customers and renewals: based on gross 
margins achieved historically.  
Market share: based on historical growth trends 
and planned sales activities by individual market 
sector.  
Adjusted for: prices based on contractual terms 
for fixed price contracts and forward market 
curves for both gas and electricity in Canada 
and the US.  
Wages: projected headcount in line with 
expected activity. Salary increases based 
on inflation expectations. 
Future developments: reduction in costs 
to reflect expected savings.  
Direct Energy – 
Residential  
and business services 
New customers and renewals: based on gross 
margins achieved in the period leading up to 
date of the business plan. 
Adjusted for: current economic conditions 
including lower Canadian consumer confidence 
and weak housing markets in Canada and 
the US.  
Market share: based on historical growth trends 
by individual market sector.  
Adjusted for: new product offerings and 
continued penetration into new markets.  
Wages: projected headcount in line with 
expected activity. Salary increases based 
on inflation expectations.  
Credit losses: historical assumptions 
regarding provisions have been updated 
to reflect the current North American 
environment. 
 
Fair value less costs to sell (FVLCS) 
FVLCS is used as the basis for determining the recoverable amount of goodwill allocated to Centrica Energy – Upstream gas and oil. 
This methodology is deemed to be more appropriate as it is based on the post-tax cash flows arising from Centrica Energy – Upstream gas 
and oil as a whole. This is consistent with the approach taken by management to evaluate the economic value of the underlying assets. 
Discount rate and cash-flow assumptions, Centrica Energy – Upstream gas and oil 
FVLCS is determined by discounting the post-tax cash flows expected to be generated by the gas production and development assets, 
net of associated selling costs, taking into account those assumptions that market participants would use in estimating fair value. Post-tax 
cash flows are derived from projected production profiles of each field, taking into account forward prices for gas and liquids over the relevant 
period. Where forward market prices are not available, prices are determined based on internal model inputs. Note 24 provides additional 
detail on the active period of each of the commodity markets in which the Group operates. The date of cessation of production depends 
on the interaction of a number of variables, such as the recoverable quantities of hydrocarbons, production costs, the contractual duration 
of the licence area and the selling price of the gas and liquids produced. As each field has specific reservoir characteristics and economic 
circumstances, the post-tax cash flows for each field are computed using individual economic models. Post-tax cash flows used 
in the FVLCS calculation for the first three years are based on the Group’ s Board-approved three-year business plans and, thereafter, 
are based on long-term production and cash flow forecasts.  
The future post-tax cash flows are discounted using a post-tax nominal discount rate of 8.5% (2011: 8.5%) to determine the FVLCS. 
The discount rate and inflation rate used in the FVLCS calculation are determined in the same manner as the rates used in the VIU 
calculations described above, with the exception of the adjustment required to determine an equivalent pre-tax discount rate. 
(d) Summary of results 
For all material CGUs, the recoverable amounts exceed their carrying values at the impairment test date. Reasonably possible changes 
in the key assumptions listed above would not cause the recoverable amounts of the goodwill balances to be less than the carrying amounts. 
Financial Statements
101 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
15. Property, plant and equipment 
Land and 
buildings 
£m 
Plant,
equipment 
and vehicles  
(i) (v)  
£m
Power
generation 
(i) (ii) (iv) (v)
£m
Gas 
production 
and storage
(i) (ii) (v)
£m
2012
Total
£m
Land and
buildings 
£m
Plant, 
equipment 
and vehicles 
(i) (v) 
£m 
Power 
generation  
(i) (ii) (iv) (v) 
£m 
Gas 
production 
and storage
(i) (ii) (v)
£m
2011
Total
£m
Cost    
1 January  26 417 2,318 10,708 13,469 26 369 2,229 9,852 12,476
Additions – 84 93 1,780 1,957 – 85 98 529 712
Capitalised borrowing costs (note 8) – – – 53 53 – – – 46 46
Acquisitions (note 30) – – – 67 67 – 10 – 33 43
Disposals  – (38) (19) (210) (267) – (44) (12) (2) (58)
Transfers
 (iii) 
 – – – – – – – 5 100 105
Decommissioning liability revisions and 
additions (note 23) – – 4 536 540 – – (4) 200 196
Exchange adjustments – (1) (14) (32) (47) – (3) 2 (50) (51)
31 December  26 462 2,382 12,902 15,772 26 417 2,318 10,708 13,469
Accumulated depreciation and impairment   
1 January  13 190 1,064 5,790 7,057 12 178 743 5,145 6,078
Charge for the year 1 60 109 727 897 1 52 127 654 834
Impairments – 4 13 73 90 – – 205 16 221
Disposals – (20) (4) (181) (205) – (39) (12) (2) (53)
Exchange adjustments – (2) (6) (24) (32) – (1) 1 (23) (23)
31 December  14 232 1,176 6,385 7,807 13 190 1,064 5,790 7,057
NBV at 31 December  12 230 1,206 6,517 7,965 13 227 1,254 4,918 6,412
 
(i) Assets in the course of construction are included within the following categories: plant, equipment and vehicles £66 million, power generation £55 million, 
gas production £715 million and gas storage £143 million (2011: £61 million, £45 million, £996 million and £156 million respectively). 
(ii) The NBV of decommissioning assets included within power generation and gas production and storage assets was £1,307 million (2011: £907 million). 
(iii) Transfers to/from other Balance Sheet accounts, including transfers to inventory or transfers from intangible assets for exploration licences once a field 
is being developed. 
(iv) The Humber power station has been pledged as security for pension liabilities up to a value of £400 million (2011: £300 million). The carrying value of Humber at  
31 December 2012 was £380 million (2011: £382 million). 
(v) Assets held under finance leases and to which title was restricted at 31 December 2012 included in totals above: 
 
 
Plant, equipment 
and vehicles
£m
Power
generation 
£m
Gas 
production
and storage 
£m
2012
Total
£m
Plant, equipment 
and vehicles 
£m 
Power 
generation 
£m 
Gas 
production
and storage
£m
2011
Total
£m
Cost at 1 January 6 469 415 890 2 469 415 886
Additions ––– – 4 – – 4
Disposals (4)–– (4) – – – –
Cost at 31 December 2 469 415 886 6 469 415 890
Aggregate depreciation at 1 January  3 201 380 584 1 173 375 549
Charge for the year – 28 5 33 2 28 5 35
Disposals (2)–– (2) – – – –
Aggregate depreciation at 31 December 1 229 385 615 3 201 380 584
NBV at 31 December 1 240 30 271 3 268 35 306
 
During 2012, impairment charges recorded by the Group include the following: 
 Centrica Energy – Gas: production assets associated with the Ensign development well in the Southern North Sea were written down 
in the period, giving rise to an impairment charge of £73 million.  
 Centrica Energy – Power: wind farm power generation assets associated with the Docking Shoal wind farm were impaired in the period 
following an unsuccessful planning consent application. This gave rise to an impairment charge of £11 million. 
These charges are reflected in operating costs before exceptional items within the Income Statement.
(a) Carrying amounts 
 
(b) Impairment of property, plant and equipment 
Financial Statements
102 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
16. Interests in joint ventures and associates 
Investments in 
joint ventures 
and associates (i)
£m
Shareholder
loans 
£m
2012
Total
£m
Investments in  
joint ventures  
and associates 
£m 
Shareholder
loans 
£m
2011
Total
£m
1 January  2,351 269 2,620 2,343 164 2,507
Additions 
(i)
 140178 318 113 115 228
Decrease in shareholder loans – (42) (42) – (10) (10)
Share of profits for the year 134 – 134 67 – 67
Share of other comprehensive income 32 – 32 (25) – (25)
Impairment
 (ii)
 (231)– (231) – – –
Dividends (110)– (110) (147) – (147)
31 December  2,316 405 2,721 2,351 269 2,620
 
(i) Additions include £30 million in relation to the Group’s retained 50% interest in Celtic Array Limited (Round 3). See note 31. 
(ii) On 4 February 2013, the Group announced its decision not to proceed with the nuclear new build investment.  Accordingly, the Group has recorded an exceptional 
impairment of £231 million. This amount includes the carrying value of its investment in NNB Holding Company Limited as well as value attributed to nuclear new build 
in the British Energy acquisition. See note 36. 
 
The Group’ s share of joint ventures’ and associates’ gross assets and gross liabilities at 31 December 2012 principally comprised of its 
interests in the following entities (all reported in the Centrica Energy – Power segment): 
 Wind farms – Braes of Doune Wind Farm (Scotland) Limited, Barrow Offshore Wind Limited, GLID Wind Farms T opCo Limited 
(i)
, Lincs 
Wind Farm Limited 
(i)  
and Celtic Array Limited (Round 3); and 
 Nuclear – Lake Acquisitions Limited (British Energy) and NNB Holding Company Limited (Nuclear New Build). 
31 December 
 Joint ventures Associates  
 2012 2011
 
Wind farms 
£m
Nuclear 
£m 
Other (ii) 
£m 
 Total
£m
Total
£m
Share of non-current assets 842 3,420 57  4,319 4,384
Share of current assets 128 634 3  765 676
 970 4,054 60  5,084 5,060
Share of current liabilities (286) (187) –  (473) (315)
Share of non-current liabilities (523) (1,744) (16)  (2,283) (2,385)
 (809) (1,931) (16)  (2,756) (2,700)
Restricted interest on shareholder loan
 (iii)
 (12) – –  (12) (9)
Share of net assets of joint ventures and associates 149 2,123 44  2,316 2,351
Shareholder loans 384 – 21  405 269
Interests in joint ventures and associates 533 2,123 65  2,721 2,620
    
Net (debt)/cash included in share of net assets (395) 128 (12)  (279) (283)
 
(i) As part of the finance arrangements entered into by GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited and Lincs Wind Farm Limited, the Group’s shares in GLID Wind Farms TopCo 
Limited and Lincs Wind Farm Limited are secured in favour of third parties. The securities would only be enforced in the event that GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited 
or Lincs Wind Farm Limited default on any of their obligations under their respective finance arrangements. 
(ii) Other includes joint ventures of North Sea Infrastructure Partners Limited and Bacton Storage Company Limited.  
(iii) The Group restricts an element of interest receivable on the shareholder loan to Lincs Wind Farm Limited. 
 
Year ended 31 December 
 Joint ventures Associates 
 2012 2011
 
Wind farms
£m
Nuclear 
£m 
 Total
£m
Total
£m
Income 49 592  641 594
Expenses excluding certain re-measurements
 (i)
 (33) (420)  (453) (444)
Certain re-measurements – (8)  (8) (33)
 16 164  180 117
Interest paid (17) (27)  (44) (58)
T axation excluding certain re-measurements
 (i)
 1(5)  (4) 1
T axation on certain re-measurements – 2  2 7
Share of post-taxation results of joint ventures and associates
 (i)
 – 134  134 67
 
(i) Includes £66 million (2011: £86 million) relating to depreciation of fair value uplifts to PP&E on acquiring the British Energy investments. The associated tax impact 
is £37 million credit (2011: £45 million credit). 
(a) Interest in joint ventures and associates 
 
(b) Share of joint ventures’ and associates’ assets and liabilities 
(c) Share of profits in joint ventures and associates 
Financial Statements
103 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
16. Interests in joint ventures and associates continued 
During November 2009 the Group acquired a 20% interest in British Energy for £2,255 million and NNB Holding Company Limited 
(‘Nuclear New Build’) for £32 million. The Group’ s share of profit arising from its investment in British Energy for the year to 31 December 2012 
as set out in table (c) includes the effect of unwinding the fair value adjustments. As explained in note 2 the depreciation, net of taxation, 
arising on fair value uplifts attributed to the nuclear power stations is reversed in arriving at adjusted profit for the period as shown 
in the reconciliation table below and as set out in notes 4(b) and 11.  
Year ended 31 December 
 
 
 
Joint ventures
Wind farms
£m
Associates 
Nuclear 
£m 
 2012
Total
£m
2011
Total
£m
Share of post-taxation results of joint ventures and associates – 134  134 67
Certain re-measurements (net of taxation) – 6  6 26
Depreciation – British Energy (net of taxation) 
(i)
 –29  29 41
Interest paid 17 27  44 58
T axation (excluding certain re-measurements and British Energy depreciation) (1) 42  41 44
Share of adjusted results of joint ventures and associates 16 238  254 236
 
(i) Relates to depreciation of fair value uplifts to PP&E on acquiring the British Energy investments. 
 
17. Inventories 
31 December 
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Gas in storage and transportation 344 243
Other raw materials and consumables 156 106
Finished goods and goods for resale 45 93
 545 442
 
The Group consumed £1,285 million of inventories (2011: £1,229 million) during the year. Write downs of inventory amounting to £7 million 
(2011: £21 million) were charged to the Income Statement in the year. 
18. Trade and other receivables 
31 December 2012  2011
 
Current
£m
Non-current 
£m 
 Current
£m
Non-current
£m
Financial assets:   
Trade receivables 1,951 5  2,066 3
Accrued energy income 1,812 –  1,709 –
Other accrued income 219 –  193 –
Cash collateral pledged (note 25) 125 –  223 –
Other receivables 326 –  351 8
 4,433 5  4,542 11
Less: provision for credit losses (511) –  (599) –
 3,922 5  3,943 11
Non-financial assets: prepayments and other receivables 413 50  269 63
 4,335 55  4,212 74
 
Trade and other receivables include financial assets representing the contractual right to receive cash or other financial assets from residential 
customers, business customers and treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties as follows:  
31 December 2012  2011
 
Current
£m
Non-current 
£m 
 Current
£m
Non-current
£m
Financial assets by class:   
Residential customers 1,922 5  2,042 4
Business customers 1,657 –  1,562 7
Treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties 854 –  938 –
 4,433 5  4,542 11
Less: provision for credit losses (511) –  (599) –
 3,922 5  3,943 11
British Energy 
(d)  Reconciliation of share of profits in joint ventures and associates to share of adjusted profits in joint ventures 
and associates 
  
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
18. Trade and other receivables continued 
Receivables from residential and business customers are generally considered to be fully performing until such time as the payment that 
is due remains outstanding past the contractual due date. Contractual due dates range from falling due upon receipt to falling due in 30 days.  
At 31 December 2012, there were £39 million (2011: £24 million) of receivables, net of provisions for credit losses, from residential customers 
and nil (2011: £22 million) from treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties that were individually impaired. Receivables from 
residential customers are generally reviewed for impairment on an individual basis once a customer discontinues their relationship with 
the Group.  
The provision for credit losses is based on an incurred loss model and is determined by application of expected default and loss factors, 
determined by historical loss experience and current sampling to the various balances receivable from residential and business customers 
on a portfolio basis, in addition to provisions taken against individual accounts. Balances are written off when recoverability is assessed 
as being remote. Movements in the provision for credit losses by class are as follows:  
 
Residential 
customers 
£m 
Business
customers
£m
Treasury, trading
and energy
procurement
counterparties
£m
2012
Total
£m
Residential
customers
£m
Business 
customers 
£m 
Treasury, trading
and energy
procurement
counterparties
£m
2011
Total
£m
1 January  (360) (226) (13) (599) (375) (253) (13) (641)
Impairment of trade receivables  (100) (114) 8 (206) (120) (102) – (222)
Receivables written off  154 133 4 291 146 129 – 275
Acquisitions – – – – (11) – – (11)
Exchange adjustments 2 1 – 3 – – – –
31 December (304) (206) (1) (511) (360) (226) (13) (599)
 
The impairment charge in trade receivables is stated net of credits for the release of specific provisions made in previous years, which are 
no longer required. These relate primarily to residential customers in the UK. At 31 December 2012, the Group took possession of £28 million 
(2011: £32 million) of customer deposits relating to customers in North America who had defaulted on their accounts receivable balance. 
At 31 December 2012, the Group held £35 million (2011: £50 million) of customer deposits for the purposes of mitigating the credit risk 
associated with receivables from residential and business customers.  
19. Derivative financial instruments 
Derivative financial instruments are held for the following purposes and accounted for accordingly: 
Purpose Accounting treatment 
Proprietary energy trading  
and treasury management 
Carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the Group’s results for the year before exceptional items and certain  
re-measurements (i) 
Energy procurement Carried at fair value, with changes in the fair value reflected in certain re-measurements (ii) 
 
(i) With the exception of certain energy derivatives related to cross-border transportation and capacity contracts (note S2). 
(ii) Energy contracts designated at fair value through profit or loss include certain energy contracts that the Group has, at its option, designated at fair value through profit 
or loss under IAS 39 because the energy contract contains one or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows under the contract (note S2). 
 
In cases where a derivative qualifies for hedge accounting, derivatives are classified as fair value hedges, or cash flow hedges. Notes 20 and 
S2 provide further detail on the Group’ s hedge accounting.   
Financial Statements
104 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
18. Trade and other receivables continued 
Receivables from residential and business customers are generally considered to be fully performing until such time as the payment that 
is due remains outstanding past the contractual due date. Contractual due dates range from falling due upon receipt to falling due in 30 days.  
At 31 December 2012, there were £39 million (2011: £24 million) of receivables, net of provisions for credit losses, from residential customers 
and nil (2011: £22 million) from treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties that were individually impaired. Receivables from 
residential customers are generally reviewed for impairment on an individual basis once a customer discontinues their relationship with 
the Group.  
The provision for credit losses is based on an incurred loss model and is determined by application of expected default and loss factors, 
determined by historical loss experience and current sampling to the various balances receivable from residential and business customers 
on a portfolio basis, in addition to provisions taken against individual accounts. Balances are written off when recoverability is assessed 
as being remote. Movements in the provision for credit losses by class are as follows:  
 
Residential 
customers 
£m 
Business
customers
£m
Treasury, trading
and energy
procurement
counterparties
£m
2012
Total
£m
Residential
customers
£m
Business 
customers 
£m 
Treasury, trading
and energy
procurement
counterparties
£m
2011
Total
£m
1 January  (360) (226) (13) (599) (375) (253) (13) (641)
Impairment of trade receivables  (100) (114) 8 (206) (120) (102) – (222)
Receivables written off  154 133 4 291 146 129 – 275
Acquisitions – – – – (11) – – (11)
Exchange adjustments 2 1 – 3 – – – –
31 December (304) (206) (1) (511) (360) (226) (13) (599)
 
The impairment charge in trade receivables is stated net of credits for the release of specific provisions made in previous years, which are 
no longer required. These relate primarily to residential customers in the UK. At 31 December 2012, the Group took possession of £28 million 
(2011: £32 million) of customer deposits relating to customers in North America who had defaulted on their accounts receivable balance. 
At 31 December 2012, the Group held £35 million (2011: £50 million) of customer deposits for the purposes of mitigating the credit risk 
associated with receivables from residential and business customers.  
19. Derivative financial instruments 
Derivative financial instruments are held for the following purposes and accounted for accordingly: 
Purpose Accounting treatment 
Proprietary energy trading  
and treasury management 
Carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the Group’s results for the year before exceptional items and certain  
re-measurements (i) 
Energy procurement Carried at fair value, with changes in the fair value reflected in certain re-measurements (ii) 
 
(i) With the exception of certain energy derivatives related to cross-border transportation and capacity contracts (note S2). 
(ii) Energy contracts designated at fair value through profit or loss include certain energy contracts that the Group has, at its option, designated at fair value through profit 
or loss under IAS 39 because the energy contract contains one or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows under the contract (note S2). 
 
In cases where a derivative qualifies for hedge accounting, derivatives are classified as fair value hedges, or cash flow hedges. Notes 20 and 
S2 provide further detail on the Group’ s hedge accounting.   
Financial Statements
105 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
19. Derivative financial instruments continued 
The carrying values of derivative financial instruments by product type for accounting purposes are as follows: 
31 December 2012  2011
 
Assets
£m
Liabilities 
£m 
 Assets
£m
Liabilities 
£m
Derivative financial instruments – held for trading under IAS 39:   
Energy derivatives – for procurement 229 (772)  332 (1,390)
Energy derivatives – for proprietary trading 69 –  61 (14)
Interest rate derivatives  13 (86)  22 (79)
Foreign exchange derivatives 33 (42)  23 (37)
Energy derivative contracts designated at fair value through profit or loss 65 –  7 (46)
Derivative financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships:   
Energy derivatives  – (14)  – (65)
Interest rate derivatives  172 (2)  157 (7)
Foreign exchange derivatives  – (26)  3 (7)
Total derivative financial instruments 581 (942)  605 (1,645)
Included within:   
Derivative financial instruments – current 268 (615)  315 (1,140)
Derivative financial instruments – non-current 313 (327)  290 (505)
 
The contracts included within energy derivatives are subject to a wide range of detailed specific terms but comprise the following general 
components, analysed on a net carrying value basis:  
31 December 
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Short-term forward market purchases and sales of gas and electricity: 
UK and Europe (163) (458)
North America (209) (406)
Structured gas purchase contracts (36) (91)
Structured gas sales contracts (78) (120)
Structured power purchase contracts 54 (27)
Other 9 (13)
Net total (423) (1,115)
 
Net gains/(losses) on derivative financial instruments due to re-measurement 
31 December 
 
 
 
Income 
Statement
£m
2012 
 
Equity 
£m 
 
Income 
Statement
£m
2011
Equity 
£m
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value:   
Derivative financial instruments – held for proprietary energy trading 24 –  30 –
Derivative financial instruments – held for trading under IAS 39  465 –  (576) –
Energy contracts designated at fair value through profit or loss 104 –  104 –
Derivative financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships 7 66  52 (56)
 600 66  (390) (56)
 
20. Hedge accounting 
For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either fair value hedges or cash flow hedges. Note S2 details the Group’ s 
accounting policies in relation to derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting under IAS 39. The fair values of derivatives and primary financial 
instruments in hedge accounting relationships at 31 December were as follows:  
31 December 2012  2011
Assets
£m
Liabilities 
£m 
 Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Fair value hedges  160 –  153 –
Cash flow hedges  12 (42)  7 (79)
 
  
  
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
20. Hedge accounting continued 
The Group’ s fair value hedges consist of interest rate swaps used to protect against changes in the fair value of fixed-rate, long-term debt due 
to movements in market interest rates. For qualifying fair value hedges, all changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument and in the fair 
value of the hedged item in relation to the risk being hedged are recognised in the Income Statement within net interest expense.  
Gains or losses arising on fair value hedges at 31 December were as follows: 
Gains/(losses) 
Year ended 31 December 
 
2012
£m
2011 
£m
On hedging instruments  7 49
On hedged items attributable to the hedged risk 2 (60)
 9 (11)
 
The Group’ s cash flow hedges consist primarily of:  
 physical and financial gas and power purchase contracts used to protect against the variability in future cash flows associated with highly 
probable forecast purchases of gas and power due to movements in market commodity prices;  
 forward foreign exchange contracts used to protect against the variability of functional currency denominated cash flows associated with 
non-functional currency denominated highly probable forecast transactions;  
 interest rate swaps used to protect against the variability in cash flows associated with floating-rate borrowings due to movements in 
market interest rates; and 
 cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts used to protect against the variability in cash flows associated 
with borrowings denominated in non-functional currencies.  
Gains and losses are initially recognised in the cash flow hedging reserve in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and are transferred 
to the Income Statement or Balance Sheet when the forecast cash flows affect the Income Statement or Balance Sheet. Note 27 details 
movements in the cash flow hedging reserve. The ineffective portion of gains and losses on cash flow hedging are recognised immediately 
in the Income Statement. During 2012, the Group recognised a £2 million loss (2011: £3 million gain) due to cash flow hedge ineffectiveness.  
Historically the Group engaged in net investment hedging (NIH) whereby it would obtain foreign currency debt issued in the same currency 
as the net investment. In 2009 the Group ceased NIH, however the opening balance of the foreign currency translation reserve includes 
exchange translation differences on borrowings and derivatives classified as NIH under the requirements of IAS 39. These balances will 
be recycled to the Income Statement on disposal of the foreign operation.  
21. Trade and other payables 
31 December 2012  2011
 
Current
£m
Non-current 
£m  
Current
£m
Non-current
£m
Financial liabilities:   
Trade payables 1,022 –  988 –
Deferred income 263 –  449 –
Capital payables 256 –  108 –
Other payables 464 12  388 2
Accruals:   
Commodity costs 833 –  719 –
Transportation, distribution and metering costs 277 –  177 –
Operating and other accruals  841 –  778 –
 1,951 –  1,674 –
 3,956 12  3,607 2
Non-financial liabilities:   
Other payables and accruals 428 3  359 11
Deferred income 161 11  128 20
 4,545 26  4,094 33
 
  
Fair value hedges  
Cash flow hedges  
Net investment hedges  
Financial Statements
106 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
20. Hedge accounting continued 
The Group’ s fair value hedges consist of interest rate swaps used to protect against changes in the fair value of fixed-rate, long-term debt due 
to movements in market interest rates. For qualifying fair value hedges, all changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument and in the fair 
value of the hedged item in relation to the risk being hedged are recognised in the Income Statement within net interest expense.  
Gains or losses arising on fair value hedges at 31 December were as follows: 
Gains/(losses) 
Year ended 31 December 
 
2012
£m
2011 
£m
On hedging instruments  7 49
On hedged items attributable to the hedged risk 2 (60)
 9 (11)
 
The Group’ s cash flow hedges consist primarily of:  
 physical and financial gas and power purchase contracts used to protect against the variability in future cash flows associated with highly 
probable forecast purchases of gas and power due to movements in market commodity prices;  
 forward foreign exchange contracts used to protect against the variability of functional currency denominated cash flows associated with 
non-functional currency denominated highly probable forecast transactions;  
 interest rate swaps used to protect against the variability in cash flows associated with floating-rate borrowings due to movements in 
market interest rates; and 
 cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts used to protect against the variability in cash flows associated 
with borrowings denominated in non-functional currencies.  
Gains and losses are initially recognised in the cash flow hedging reserve in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and are transferred 
to the Income Statement or Balance Sheet when the forecast cash flows affect the Income Statement or Balance Sheet. Note 27 details 
movements in the cash flow hedging reserve. The ineffective portion of gains and losses on cash flow hedging are recognised immediately 
in the Income Statement. During 2012, the Group recognised a £2 million loss (2011: £3 million gain) due to cash flow hedge ineffectiveness.  
Historically the Group engaged in net investment hedging (NIH) whereby it would obtain foreign currency debt issued in the same currency 
as the net investment. In 2009 the Group ceased NIH, however the opening balance of the foreign currency translation reserve includes 
exchange translation differences on borrowings and derivatives classified as NIH under the requirements of IAS 39. These balances will 
be recycled to the Income Statement on disposal of the foreign operation.  
21. Trade and other payables 
31 December 2012  2011
 
Current
£m
Non-current 
£m  
Current
£m
Non-current
£m
Financial liabilities:   
Trade payables 1,022 –  988 –
Deferred income 263 –  449 –
Capital payables 256 –  108 –
Other payables 464 12  388 2
Accruals:   
Commodity costs 833 –  719 –
Transportation, distribution and metering costs 277 –  177 –
Operating and other accruals  841 –  778 –
 1,951 –  1,674 –
 3,956 12  3,607 2
Non-financial liabilities:   
Other payables and accruals 428 3  359 11
Deferred income 161 11  128 20
 4,545 26  4,094 33
 
  
Fair value hedges  
Cash flow hedges  
Net investment hedges  
Financial Statements
107 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
22. Deferred tax liabilities and assets 
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current 
and prior reporting periods: 
 
Accelerated tax 
depreciation 
(corporation tax)
£m
Other timing
differences 
including losses 
carried forward
£m
Marked to
market
£m
Net deferred 
petroleum 
revenue tax (i)  
£m 
Retirement 
benefit
 obligation and 
other provisions
£m
Total
£m
1 January 2011 (1,693) 276 215 6 67 (1,129)
Change to tax rates (227) 60 1 – (5) (171)
(Charge)/credit to income (103) 156 113 17 (84) 99
(Charge)/credit to equity – (10) 23 – (59) (46)
Acquisition of subsidiaries (3) – – – – (3)
Exchange and other adjustments (1) (23) 3 – – (21)
31 December 2011 (2,027) 459 355 23 (81) (1,271)
Change to tax rates 28 (46) (10) 9 9 (10)
(Charge)/credit to income (269) 192 (177) 26 (16) (244)
(Charge)/credit to equity – (2) (20) – 69 47
Acquisition of subsidiaries (4) – – – – (4)
Exchange and other adjustments (7) (2) (4) – – (13)
31 December 2012 (2,279) 601 144 58 (19) (1,495)
 
(i) The deferred petroleum revenue tax amounts include the effect of deferred corporation tax as petroleum revenue taxation is deductible for corporation tax purposes. 
 
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. The following is an analysis of the gross deferred tax 
balances and associated offsetting balances for financial reporting purposes: 
31 December 2012  2011
 
Assets
£m
Liabilities 
£m 
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Gross deferred tax balances crystallising within one year 66 (261) 187 (354)
Gross deferred tax balances crystallising after one year 514 (1,814) 993 (2,097)
 580 (2,075) 1,180 (2,451)
Offsetting deferred tax balances  (397) 397 (945) 945
Net deferred tax balances  (after offsetting for financial reporting purposes) 183 (1,678) 235 (1,506)
 
At the balance sheet date the Group had certain deductible temporary differences of £382 million (2011: £454 million) available for utilisation 
against future profits. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these temporary differences, due to the unpredictability 
of future profit streams. A significant proportion of these assets may be carried forward indefinitely. At the balance sheet date, no temporary 
differences existed in respect of the Group’ s overseas investments (2011: nil). The deferred tax liability arising on these temporary differences 
is estimated to be nil (2011: nil). 
23. Provisions for other liabilities and charges 
Current provisions for other  
liabilities and charges 
1 January 
2012 
£m 
Acquisitions 
and disposals
£m
Charged in 
the year
£m
Unused and 
reversed in 
the year
£m
Utilised
£m
Transfers  
(vi) 
£m 
Exchange 
adjustments
£m
31 December
2012
£m
Restructuring costs
 (i)
 147 – 172 – (119) (71) – 129
Decommissioning costs
 (iii)
 25 – – – (43) 32 1 15
Purchase contract loss provision
 (iv)
 85 – 3 – (93) 84 (2) 77
Other
 (v)
 51 – 6 – (39) 27 – 45
 308 – 181 – (294) 72 (1) 266
 
Non-current provisions for other 
liabilities and charges 
1 January 
2012 
£m 
Acquisitions 
and disposals
£m
Charged in 
the year
£m
Unused and 
reversed in 
the year
£m
Revisions and 
additions
£m
Transfers  
(vi) 
£m 
Exchange 
adjustments
£m
31 December
2012
£m
Restructuring costs
 (i) (ii)
 17 – 3 – – – – 20
Decommissioning costs
 (iii)
 1,591 6 45 (6) 540 (32) 12 2,156
Purchase contract loss provision
 (iv)
 217 – 104 – – (84) (5) 232
Other
 (v)
 78 – 5 – – (11) – 72
 1,903 6 157 (6) 540 (127) 7 2,480
  
Financial Statements
108 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
23. Provisions for other liabilities and charges continued 
Included within the above liabilities are the following financial liabilities:  
Financial liabilities  
 
31 December 2012  2011
 
Current
£m
Non-current 
£m 
 Current
£m
Non-current
£m
Restructuring costs
 (i) (ii)
 129 20  144 15
Provisions other than restructuring costs  66 135  74 151
 195 155  218 166
 
(i) The brought forward restructuring provisions relate to significant restructuring programmes undertaken to achieve cost reductions across the Group. Included within 
the closing provision are costs related to surplus properties of £26 million (2011: £24 million) estimated with reference to the expected cost to be incurred to the point 
of lease termination, including costs for dilapidations and sub-letting. The provisions are expected to be utilised by 2022. 
(ii) The non-current element of exceptional restructuring provisions charged in the year are expected to be utilised by 2016. 
(iii) Provision has been made for the estimated net present cost of decommissioning gas production and storage facilities at the end of their useful lives. The estimate 
has been based on 2P reserves, price levels and technology at the Balance Sheet date. The timing of decommissioning payments is dependent on the lives 
of the facilities but is expected to occur by 2055, with the majority of the provision being utilised between 2020 and 2030. The charge to income includes £41 million 
of notional interest (2011: £40 million). Additions in the year include £450 million in relation to the Statoil, ConocoPhillips and Total asset purchases (see note 30). 
(iv) The purchase contract loss provision relates to a number of European gas transportation contracts, the Rijnmond tolling contract and Direct Energy wind farm power 
purchase agreements (see note 7). The majority of the provisions are expected to be utilised by 2018. 
(v) Other provisions include UK contract migration costs, National Insurance payable in respect of Long Term Incentive Scheme liabilities, costs for certain long term take-
or-pay contracts renegotiated by the Group in prior years and outstanding litigation for a number of items (none of which are individually significant). The provisions are 
expected to be utilised by 2016. 
(vi) Includes transfers to/from other Balance Sheet accounts. During 2012, £71 million was transferred from restructuring provisions to pension liabilities in respect 
of changes to employee pension benefits. 
 
24. Fair value of financial instruments  
The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the financial instrument could be exchanged in an arm’ s length transaction 
between knowledgeable and willing parties under no compulsion to act. The Group has documented internal policies for determining fair 
value, including methodologies used to establish valuation adjustments required for credit risk. 
31 December 
 
 Notes
Carrying value
£m
2012 
Fair value 
£m  
Carrying value
£m
2011
Fair value
£m
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:   
Trade and other payables  21 (3,968) (3,968)  (3,609) (3,609)
Bank overdrafts, loans and other borrowings:   
Bank overdrafts and loans  12 (369) (388)  (267) (274)
Bonds  12 (4,578) (5,119)  (3,460) (3,891)
Commercial paper 12 (82) (82)  (114) (114)
Obligations under finance leases  12 (299) (337)  (330) (328)
Provisions 23 (350) (350)  (384) (384)
 (9,646) (10,244)  (8,164) (8,600)
Financial liabilities at fair value: Derivative financial instruments  19 (942) (942)  (1,645) (1,645)
 
The carrying values of the Group’ s financial assets (disclosed in notes 12, 18 and 19) are equal to the fair values of those assets.  
The fair values of bonds are based on quoted market prices. The fair values of bank loans have been determined by discounting cash flows 
with reference to relevant market rates of interest. The fair values of overdrafts and commercial paper are assumed to equal their book values 
due to the short-term nature of these amounts. The fair values of obligations under finance leases have been determined by discounting 
contractual cash flows with reference to the Group’ s cost of borrowing. 
Due to their nature and/or short-term maturity, the fair values of trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other 
payables and provisions are estimated to approximate their carrying values. 
The fair values of foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives are determined by reference to closing market rates at the Balance Sheet 
date. The fair values of energy derivatives are determined using valuation techniques based in part on observable market data and in part 
on internal estimates not currently supported by observable market data. The extent to which fair values of energy derivatives are based 
on observable market data is determined by the extent to which the market for the underlying commodity is judged to be active. 
Financial liabilities 
Financial assets 
Bank overdrafts, loans and other borrowings 
Other financial instruments 
Derivative financial instruments and energy contracts designated at fair value through profit or loss 
Financial Statements
109 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
24. Fair value of financial instruments continued 
The Group has judged each of the markets in which it operates as active for the purposes of accounting as follows: 
Active period of markets Gas Power Coal Emissions Oil
UK (years)  2 2 3 2 3
North America (years) 5 Up to 5 n/a Up to 5 3
 
The fair values of energy contracts within the scope of IAS 39 that settle inside the active period of the market are based on quoted market 
prices and expected volumes, discounted at an average rate of 1% per annum (2011: 1%). The fair values of derivative financial instruments 
in North America and Europe are based primarily on quoted market prices. In the UK, however, certain energy contracts extend beyond 
the active period of the market. The fair values of energy contracts that extend beyond the active period of the market are determined 
by reference in part to published price quotations in active markets and in part by using valuation techniques based on commodity prices 
derived using assumptions that are based on internal market expectations and expected volumes, discounted using an average discount rate 
of 2% per annum for 2012 (2011: 2%). 
Where the fair value at initial recognition for contracts which extend beyond the active period differs from the transaction price, a day-one gain 
or loss will arise. Such gains and losses are deferred and amortised to the Income Statement based on volumes purchased or delivered over 
the contractual period until such time as observable market data becomes available (see note S2 for further detail). The amount that has yet 
to be recognised in the Income Statement relating to the differences between the transaction prices and the amounts that would have arisen 
had valuation techniques used for subsequent measurement been applied at initial recognition, less subsequent releases, is as follows:  
Net deferred (gains)/losses 
2012 
£m 
 2011
£m
1 January (59) (109)
Net losses deferred on new transactions 20  7
Recognised in the Income Statement during the year (2)  43
31 December (41) (59)
 
Financial assets and financial liabilities measured and held at fair value are classified into one of three categories: 
31 December 2012  2011
 
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
Level 1 
£m 
Level 2 
£m 
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
Financial assets    
Derivative financial instruments:   
Energy derivatives 29 195 139 363 40 318 42 400
Interest rate derivatives – 185 – 185 – 179 – 179
Foreign exchange derivatives – 33 – 33 – 26 – 26
Treasury gilts designated at fair value through profit or loss 130 – – 130 128 – – 128
Debt instruments 56 – 2 58 69 – 3 72
Equity instruments 12 – 6 18 11 – 7 18
Total financial assets 227 413 147 787 248 523 52 823
Financial liabilities    
Derivative financial instruments:   
Energy derivatives (59) (570) (157) (786) (169) (1,140) (206) (1,515)
Interest rate derivatives – (88) – (88) – (86) – (86)
Foreign exchange derivatives – (68) – (68) – (44) – (44)
Total financial liabilities (59) (726) (157) (942) (169) (1,270) (206) (1,645)
 
There were no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during 2012 and 2011.
Fair value hierarchy 
Financial Statements
110 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
24. Fair value of financial instruments continued 
The reconciliation of the Level 3 fair value measurements during the year is as follows: 
 2012 2011
 
Financial assets
£m
Financial liabilities
£m
Financial assets 
£m 
Financial liabilities
£m
Level 3 financial instruments  
1 January 52 (206) 131 (320)
T otal realised and unrealised gains/(losses):  
Recognised in Income Statement 115 31 (45) 68
Losses recognised in other comprehensive income – – – (3)
Purchases, sales, insurances and settlements (net) (20) – – –
Transfers from Level 3 to Level 2 – 18 (34) 49
31 December 147 (157) 52 (206)
Total gains/(losses) for the year for Level 3 financial 
instruments held at the end of the reporting period 
(i)
100 34 (21) 65
 
(i) £100 million gains (2011: £21 million losses) for the year for Level 3 financial assets held at the end of the reporting year were recognised within certain 
re-measurements and no gains or losses (2011: nil) were recognised in other comprehensive income. £34 million gains (2011: £68 million) for the year for Level 3 
financial liabilities held at the end of the reporting year were recognised within certain re-measurements and no gains or losses (2011: £3 million losses) were recognised 
in other comprehensive income.  
 
The impacts of reasonably possible changes to assumed gas, power, coal, emissions and oil prices on the net fair value of the Group’ s fair 
value measurements categorised as Level 3 are as follows: 
2012  2011
Energy price 
Reasonably possible  
change in variable 
 Reasonably possible 
change in variable
UK gas (p/therm) +/–5  +/–9
UK power (£/MWh) +/–4  +/–6
UK coal (US$/tonne) +/–13  +/–13
UK emissions (€/tonne) +/–2  +/–2
UK oil (US$/bbl)  +/–17  +/–20
    
Increase/(decrease) in fair value  
2012 
£m 
 2011
£m
UK energy prices – increase/(decrease)  17/(5)  52/(38)
 
The impacts disclosed above result from changing the assumptions used for fair valuing energy contracts in relation to gas, power, emissions, 
coal and oil prices to reasonably possible alternative assumptions at the Balance Sheet date. The fair value impacts only concern those 
contracts entered into which are within the scope of IAS 39 and are marked-to-market based on valuation models using assumptions 
that are not currently observable in an active market. The sensitivity analysis provided is hypothetical only and should be used with caution, 
as the impacts provided are not necessarily indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced. This is because the Group’ s actual 
exposure to market rates is constantly changing as the Group’ s portfolio of energy contracts changes. Changes in fair values based on a 
variation in a market variable cannot be extrapolated as the relationship between the change in market variable and the change in fair value 
will not always be linear. This can be seen in the results from the above sensitivity analysis.  
25. Financial risk management 
The Group’ s normal operating, investing and financing activities expose it to a variety of financial risks. The processes for managing these 
risks are set out in note S3. The information in this note sets out financial metrics related to these risks. 
It is the Group’ s policy to hedge material transactional exposures using forward contracts to fix the functional currency value of non-functional 
currency cash flows, except where there is an economic hedge inherent in the transaction. At 31 December 2012, there were no material 
unhedged non-functional currency monetary assets or liabilities, firm commitments or probable forecast transactions (2011: nil), other than 
transactions which have an inherent economic hedge and foreign currency borrowings used to hedge translational exposures. 
The Group manages translational currency risk taking into consideration the cash impact of any hedging activity as well as the risk to the net 
asset numbers in the Group’ s Financial Statements. The translation hedging programme including the potential cash impact is monitored 
by the GFRMC (Group Financial Risk Management Committee).
Transactional and translational currency risks 
Financial Statements
111 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
25. Financial risk management continued 
The impacts of reasonably possible changes in foreign currency rates relative to pounds sterling on profit and equity, both after taxation, 
based on the assumptions set out in note S3 are as follows: 
 2012 2011
Foreign exchange rates and incremental  
profit/(loss) 
Reasonably
possible 
change 
in variable (ii) 
%
Impact on
profit
£m
Impact on
 equity
£m
Reasonably  
possible  
change 
in variable (ii) 
% 
Impact on
profit
£m
Impact on
equity
(restated) (i)
£m
US dollar +/–10 (5)/5 (1)/1 +/–10 14/(23) (1)/1
Canadian dollar +/–10 (11)/13 –/– +/–10 (18)/20 –/–
Euro +/–10 (8)/6 (4)/– +/–10 33/(20) 5/(6)
 
(i) Restated to remove foreign exchange impacts of consolidation of non-sterling functional currency subsidiaries. 
(ii) + is strengthening of pounds sterling, – is weakening of pounds sterling. 
 
The impacts of reasonably possible changes in interest rates on profit and equity, both after taxation, based on the assumptions set out 
in note S3 are as follows:  
 2012 2011
Interest rates and incremental profit/(loss) 
Reasonably 
possible 
change
 in variable
%
Impact on
profit 
£m
Impact on
equity
£m
Reasonably  
possible  
change 
 in variable 
% 
Impact on
 profit
£m
Impact on
equity
(restated) (i)
£m
UK interest rates +/–1.0 5/(5) (11)/10 +/–1.0 6/(4) 11/(14)
US interest rates +/–1.0 3/(2) –/– +/–1.0 2/(4) –/–
Euro interest rates +/–1.0 (2)/2 (16)/18 +/–1.0 (4)/5 –/–
 
(i) Restated for updated sensitivity methodology adopted in the current year. 
 
The impacts of reasonably possible changes in commodity prices on profit and equity, both after taxation, based on the assumptions set out 
in note S3 are as follows:  
 2012  2011
Energy prices Base price (i)
Reasonably 
possible  
change  
in variable 
 
Base price (i)
Reasonably 
possible 
change 
in variable
UK gas (p/therm)  64 +/–5  59 +/–9
UK power (£/MWh) 51 +/–4  47 +/–6
UK coal (US$/tonne) 97 +/–13  117 +/–13
UK emissions (€/tonne) 7 +/–2  8 +/–2
UK oil (US$/bbl) 103 +/–17  101 +/–20
North American gas (USc/therm) 42 +/–6  42 +/–6
North American power (US$/MWh) 39 +/–4  43 +/–4
 
(i) The base price represents the average forward market price over the duration of the active market curve used in the sensitivity analysis provided.  
 
 2012  2011
Incremental profit/(loss) 
Impact on 
profit
£m
Impact on 
 equity 
£m 
 Impact on
profit
£m
Impact on
equity
£m
UK energy prices (combined) – increase/(decrease) 92/(83) 4/(4)  245/(235) 24/(24)
North American energy prices (combined) – increase/(decrease) 93/(93) –/–  56/(56) –/–
 
The Group has a number of treasury and risk policies to monitor and manage liquidity risk. Cash forecasts identifying the Group’ s liquidity 
requirements are produced regularly and are stress-tested for different scenarios, including, but not limited to, reasonably possible increases 
or decreases in commodity prices and the potential cash implications of a credit rating downgrade. The Group seeks to ensure that sufficient 
financial headroom exists for at least a 12-month period to safeguard the Group’ s ability to continue as a going concern. It is the Group's 
policy to maintain committed facilities and/or available surplus cash resources of at least £1,200 million, raise at least 75% of its net debt 
(excluding non-recourse debt) in the long-term debt market and to maintain an average term to maturity in the recourse long-term debt 
portfolio greater than five years.  
At 31 December 2012, the Group had undrawn committed credit facilities of £3,029 million (2011: £3,254 million) and £931 million  
(2011: £518 million) of cash and cash equivalents. 130% (2011: 115%) of the Group’ s net debt has been raised in the long-term debt market 
and the average term to maturity of the long-term debt portfolio was 12.6 years (2011: 9.6 years). 
Interest rate risk 
Commodity price risk 
Liquidity risk 
Financial Statements
112 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
25. Financial risk management continued 
The Group’ s liquidity is impacted by the cash pledged under margin/collateral agreements, the table below summarises the movements 
in margin cash: 
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Cash pledged as collateral at 1 January (219) (173)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) 114 (26)
Transferred from discontinued operations – (2)
Acquisition of businesses (4) (17)
Foreign exchange 7 (1)
Cash pledged as collateral at 31 December
 (i)
 (102) (219)
 
(i) Of the net cash collateral pledged of £102 million (2011: £219 million), £23 million (2011: £4 million) is included within trade payables and £125 million 
(2011: £223 million) within trade receivables. In 2011 there was also a net £8 million cash collateral inflow within discontinued operations. 
 
The relatively high level of undrawn committed bank borrowing facilities and available cash resources has enabled the Directors to conclude 
that the Group has sufficient headroom to continue as a going concern. The statement of going concern is included in the Directors' Report – 
Governance, on page 60.  
Maturities of derivative financial instruments, provisions, borrowings, finance leases and trade and other payables are provided in the following 
tables (all amounts are remaining contractual undiscounted cash flows): 
Due for payment  
<1
year
£m
1 to 2 
years
£m
2 to 3
years
£m
3 to 4 
years 
£m 
4 to 5
years
£m
>5
years
£m
2012  
Energy and interest derivatives in a loss position that will be settled 
on a net basis (130) (47) (10) (2) (1) (4)
Gross energy procurement contracts and related derivatives 
carried at fair value  (19,525) (7,076) (4,032) (2,274) (262) (701)
Foreign exchange derivatives that will be settled on a gross basis:  
Outflow (3,741) (823) (25) (7) (7) (447)
Inflow 3,689 820 22 5 4 363
Financial liabilities within provisions (195) (46) (26) (59) (24) (9)
Borrowings
 (i)
 (685) (621) (255) (512) (195) (5,976)
Finance lease:
 (ii)
  
Minimum lease payments (46) (47) (48) (48) (39) (148)
Capital elements of leases (30) (32) (35) (38) (30) (134)
 
(i) Includes bank loans, bonds, commercial paper and interest. 
(ii) Note the difference between the total minimum lease payments and the total capital elements of leases is due to future finance charges. 
 
Due for payment  
<1
year
£m
1 to 2 
years
£m
2 to 3
years
£m
3 to 4 
years 
£m 
4 to 5
years
£m
>5
years
£m
2011   
Energy and interest derivatives in a loss position that will be settled 
on a net basis (326) (85) (17) (3) (2) (24)
Gross energy procurement contracts and related derivatives 
carried at fair value  (16,174) (7,033) (4,396) (3,552) (2,054) (1,077)
Foreign exchange derivatives that will be settled on a gross basis:   
Outflow (2,920) (699) (36) (19) (2) (319)
Inflow 2,921 656 39 17 – 263
Financial liabilities within provisions (218) (40) (30) (22) (45) (29)
Borrowings
 (i)
 (627) (528) (497) (151) (451) (3,505)
Finance lease:
 (ii)
   
Minimum lease payments (46) (46) (47) (48) (48) (187)
Capital elements of leases (28) (33) (32) (35) (38) (164)
 
(i) Includes bank loans, bonds, commercial paper and interest. 
(ii) Note the difference between the total minimum lease payments and the total capital elements of leases is due to future finance charges. 
 
Maturity profiles 
Financial Statements
113 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
25. Financial risk management continued 
Financial liabilities within trade and other payables on an undiscounted basis  
2012 
£m 
 2011
£m
Less than 90 days 3,797  3,356
90 to 182 days 81  90
183 to 365 days 78  161
 3,956  3,607
Greater than 365 days 12  2
 3,968  3,609
 
Credit risk from financial asset transactions is generated by the potential for the counterparty to default on its contractual obligations. 
Counterparty credit exposure issues remained a focal point within the Group throughout 2012 and the Group continues to be vigilant 
in managing counterparty risks in accordance with its financial risk management policies. The period has seen a large number of credit rating 
downgrades for both financial institutions and European energy majors. In spite of this, the Group has not altered its rating thresholds 
for counterparty credit limits and continues to operate within its limits. In the US and Europe, on-going regulatory changes are resulting 
in an increase in trading over exchanges or via zero threshold margined contracts. This helps to reduce counterparty credit risk, but carries 
increased liquidity requirements. Details of how credit risk is managed across the asset categories shown below are included in note S3. 
Credit risk from financial assets is measured by counterparty credit rating as follows: 
  2012 2011
 
Derivative financial 
instruments with 
positive fair values 
£m 
Receivables from
treasury, trading and 
energy procurement 
counterparties
£m
Cash and cash 
equivalents
£m
Derivative financial 
instruments with  
positive fair values
£m
Receivables from 
treasury, trading and 
energy procurement 
counterparties 
£m 
Cash and cash 
equivalents
£m
AAA to AA 1 78 550 5 128 411
AA– to A– 392 439 354 469 408 106
BBB+ to BBB– 85 108 2 23 137 –
BB+ to BB– 71 42 1 20 27 1
B or lower – 5 – 3 1 –
Unrated
 (i)
 32 182 24 85 237 –
 581 854 931 605 938 518
 
(i) The unrated counterparty receivables primarily comprise amounts due from subsidiaries of rated entities, exchanges or clearing houses. 
 
An ageing of the carrying value of trade and other receivables that are past due that are not considered to be individually impaired 
is as follows: 
Financial assets within trade and other receivables on an undiscounted basis  
2012 
£m 
 2011
£m
Days past due:   
Less than 30 days 582  446
30 to 89 days 235  268
Less than 90 days 817  714
90 to 182 days 135  124
183 to 365 days 179  192
Greater than 365 days 90  114
 1,221  1,144
 
For additional information on financial risk management see note S3.
Credit risk for financial assets  
Financial Statements
114 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
26. Share capital 
Allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company  
31 December 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
5,199,019,674 ordinary shares of 6
14
/81p each (2011: 5,173,244,808) 321 319
 
The number of allotted and fully paid shares of the Company issued under employee share schemes for the year was 26 million 
(2011: 19 million). Ordinary shares were allotted and issued to satisfy the exercise of share options, share incentive schemes, 
the Direct Energy Employee Share Purchase Plan and the matching element of the Share Incentive Plan as follows: 
 
2012 2011 
Number of shares (millions) 26 19
Nominal value (£million) 1.6 1.2
Cash consideration (£million)  33 23
Service consideration (£million) 24 19
 
The closing price of one Centrica ordinary share on 31 December 2012 was 333.60 pence (2011: 289.30 pence). Centrica employee share 
ownership trusts purchase Centrica ordinary shares from the open market and receive newly issued shares to satisfy future obligations 
of certain employee share schemes. During the year, the trusts purchased 2.2 million shares (2011: 0.9 million), received 5.8 million newly 
allotted shares (2011: 4.9 million) and released 9.1 million shares (2011: 7.0 million) to employees on vesting. At 31 December 2012, the 
trusts held 6.2 million shares (2011: 7.3 million) at a carrying amount of £19 million (2011: £19 million). Until such time as the Company’ s own 
shares held by these trusts vest unconditionally, the amount paid for those shares, or the value they were issued at, are held as own shares 
and are deducted from equity. 
27. Accumulated other comprehensive (loss)/income 
 2012   2011
 
Available-
for-sale
reserve
(AFS)
£m
Cash
flow
hedging
reserve
£m
Foreign
currency
translation
reserve
£m
Actuarial
gains and
losses
reserve
£m
Total
£m
Available- 
for-sale 
reserve 
(AFS) 
£m 
Cash 
flow 
hedging 
reserve 
£m 
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve 
£m 
Actuarial
gains and
losses
reserve
£m
Total
£m
1 January  6 (92) 76 (228) (238) (11) (56) 91 (343) (319)
Exchange differences on translation of  
foreign operations – 1 (44) – (43) – (3) (12) – (15)
Recycling of foreign exchange on  
disposal of business – – – – – – – (3) – (3)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (note 29) – – – (319) (319) – – – 198 198
Revaluation of available-for-sale securities 7 – – – 7 (4) – – – (4)
Transfer of AFS reserve to Income Statement – – – – – 23 – – – 23
Cash flow hedges:    
Net losses – (27) – – (27) – (99) – – (99)
Transferred to income and expense – 108 – – 108 – 42 – – 42
Transferred to assets and liabilities – (1) – – (1) – 2 – – 2
Share of other comprehensive income/(loss) of 
joint ventures and associates net of taxation – (12) – 44 32 – (1) – (24) (25)
T axation on above items (2) (20) – 69 47 (2) 23 – (59) (38)
31 December  11 (43) 32 (434) (434) 6 (92) 76 (228) (238)
 
The foreign currency translation reserve comprises exchange translation differences on foreign currency net investments. Historically 
the Group has hedged its foreign investments and so the opening balance of foreign currency translation reserve includes exchange 
translation differences on borrowings and derivatives classified as net investment hedges under the requirements of IAS 39.
Foreign currency translation reserve 
Financial Statements
115 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
27. Accumulated other comprehensive (loss)/income continued 
The cash flow hedging reserve comprises fair value movements on instruments designated as cash flow hedges under the requirements 
of IAS 39. Note 20 provides further detail on cash flow hedging.  
The maturity analysis of amounts included in the cash flow hedging reserve, which includes fair value gains and losses in relation 
to commodity, interest rate and currency hedges, is as follows: 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Within one year (18) (57)
Between one and five years (26) (13)
After five years 1 (22)
 (43) (92)
 
The maturity profile reflects the timing of expected transfers from the cash flow hedging reserve to the Income Statement or Balance Sheet 
as and when the hedged item affects the Income Statement or Balance Sheet which is, for the most part, on delivery of physical volumes 
for energy contracts and straight-line amortisation of losses and gains on debt derivatives.  
28. Other equity  
 2012   2011
 
Revaluation
reserve
£m
Own
shares 
reserve
£m
Share-
based 
payments
reserve
£m
Merger and 
capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Total
£m
 
 
Revaluation 
reserve 
£m 
 
Own 
shares 
reserve 
£m 
Share-
based 
payments 
reserve 
£m 
Merger and 
capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Total
£m
1 January 26 (19) 112 483 602 27 (22) 113 483 601
Employee share schemes:    
Increase in own shares – (21) – – (21) – (19) – – (19)
Exercise of awards – 21 (45) – (24) – 22 (33) – (11)
Value of services provided – – 43 – 43 – – 40 – 40
T axation on above items – – (1) – (1) – – (8) – (8)
Exchange adjustments 1 – – – 1 (1) – – – (1)
31 December  27 (19) 109 483 600 26 (19) 112 483 602
 
For additional explanation of the reserves that are included in the above table see note S5. 
29. Pensions 
Name of scheme Section Status Funding/tax status Country 
Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme Final salary section 
Career average section 
Closed to new members 
Open to new members 
Funded/tax-registered 
Funded/tax-registered 
UK 
UK 
Centrica Pension Plan Management section 
2008 section 
Closed to new members 
Closed to new members 
Funded/tax-registered 
Funded/tax-registered 
UK 
UK 
Centrica Pension Scheme Final salary section 
Career average section 
Closed to new members 
Closed to new members 
Funded/tax-registered 
Funded/tax-registered 
UK 
UK 
Direct Energy Marketing Limited Pension Plan  Closed to new members Funded/tax-registered Canada 
 
The Centrica Pension Scheme also has a defined contribution section which is open to new members. 
The Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme (CEPS), Centrica Pension Plan (CPP) and Centrica Pension Scheme form the majority 
of the Group’ s defined benefit obligation and are referred to below as the ‘Registered Pension Schemes’. 
For additional background information to the Group’ s pension schemes see note S6. 
During 2011, the Group announced changes to the terms of the final salary sections of the CEPS and the CPP with the changes taking effect 
from 1 January 2012 and 1 March 2012 respectively. Employees’ annual increases in pensionable pay will be capped to 2% 
and annual increases in respect of future years’ service for pensions in deferment will be the lower of CPI and 2.5%. Following agreement 
of the changes in October 2011 (for CEPS) and December 2011 (for CPP) with the trade unions and the trustees, the Group recognised 
exceptional curtailment gains in 2011 of £333 million, as disclosed in note 7. 
The final salary section of the Centrica Pension Scheme has an active membership of approximately 50 employees.
Cash flow hedging reserve 
(a) Summary of main defined benefit schemes 
(b) 2011 curtailment gain 
Financial Statements
116 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
29. Pensions continued 
The accounting assumptions for the Registered Pension Schemes have been given below. 
Major assumptions used for the actuarial valuation 
31 December 
 
2012
%
2011
%
Rate of increase in employee earnings: 
Subject to cap 1.7 2.0
Other 3.2 4.3
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.2 3.3
Rate of increase in deferred pensions: 
In line with CPI capped at 2.5% 2.5 2.3
In line with RPI 3.2 3.3
Discount rate 4.8 5.4
 
The assumptions relating to longevity underlying the pension liabilities at the balance sheet date have been based on a combination 
of standard actuarial mortality tables, scheme experience and other relevant data, and include an allowance for future improvements 
in mortality. The longevity assumptions for members in normal health are as follows: 
2012  2011
Life expectancy at age 65 for a member 
Male
Years
Female 
Years 
 Male
Years
Female
Years
Currently aged 65 22.8 25.2  22.7 24.0
Currently aged 45 24.6 27.2  24.5 25.4
 
At 31 March 2012, the date of the most recent actuarial review, the schemes had approximately 40,200 members and beneficiaries, 
of which approximately 4,000 were members of the defined contribution section of the Centrica Pension Scheme. The other demographic 
assumptions have been set having regard to the latest trends in scheme experience and other relevant data. The assumptions are reviewed 
and updated as necessary as part of the periodic actuarial valuation of the pension schemes. 
 2012  2011
Impact of changing material assumptions 
Increase/
decrease in
assumption 
Indicative effect  
on scheme 
liabilities  
% 
 
Increase/ 
 decrease in 
assumption 
Indicative effect
 on scheme 
 liabilities
%
Rate of increase in employee earnings subject to cap 0.25% +/–1  0.25% +0/–1
Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 0.25% +/–4  0.25% +/–5
Discount rate 0.25% –/+5  0.25% –/+6
Inflation assumption 0.25% +/–4  0.25% +/–5
Longevity assumption 1 year +/–2  1 year +/–2
 
The remaining disclosures in this note cover all of the Group’ s defined benefit schemes. 
31 December 
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Fair value of plan assets  5,133 4,670
Present value of defined benefit obligation (5,045) (4,340)
Net asset recognised in the Balance Sheet 88 330
Associated deferred tax liability recognised in the Balance Sheet (19) (81)
Net pension asset after deferred tax 69 249
Pension asset presented in the Balance Sheet as: 
Retirement benefit assets 254 413
Retirement benefit liabilities (166) (83)
Net pension asset 88 330
(c) Accounting assumptions 
(d) Amounts included in the Balance Sheet 
Financial Statements
117 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
29. Pensions continued 
2012 
 
2011
 
Pension liabilities
£m
Pension assets 
£m 
 Pension liabilities 
£m 
Pension assets
£m
1 January (4,340) 4,670  (4,574) 4,335
Items included in the Income Statement:    
Current service cost (87) –  (118) –
Gain/(loss) on curtailment 3 –  (1) –
Exceptional gains on curtailment – –  333 –
Interest on scheme liabilities  (235) –  (258) –
Expected return on scheme assets – 280  – 285
Items included in Other Comprehensive Income:    
Actuarial (loss)/gain (449) 130  198 –
Exchange adjustments 2 (2)  1 (1)
Items included in the Cash Flow Statement:    
Employer contributions – 187  – 130
Other movements:    
Plan participants’ contributions (27) 27  (29) 29
Benefits paid from schemes 159 (159)  108 (108)
Transfers from provisions for other liabilities and charges (71) –  – –
31 December (5,045) 5,133  (4,340) 4,670
 
In addition to current service cost on the Group’ s defined benefit pension schemes, the Group also charged £13 million (2011: £10 million) 
to operating profit in respect of defined contribution pension schemes. 
Year ended 31 December 
 
2012 
£m 
 2011
£m
Actuarial gain (actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets) 130  –
Experience gains arising on the scheme liabilities 87  57
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities (536)  141
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in accumulated other comprehensive loss (before taxation) (319)  198
Cumulative actuarial losses recognised in reserves at 1 January, before adjustment for taxation (291) (489)
Cumulative actuarial losses recognised in reserves at 31 December, 
before adjustment for taxation (610) (291)
 
The expected long-term rate of return and the market value of plan assets were:  
31 December 2012  2011
 
Fair value
£m
Proportion 
of total 
fair value
%
Expected 
long-term 
rate of 
return per 
annum 
% 
Fair value 
£m 
Proportion 
of total 
fair value
%
Expected 
long-term 
rate of 
return per 
annum
%
UK equities 322 6.3 6.8 400 8.6 7.5
Non-UK equities 1,580 30.8 7.3 1,337 28.6 7.7
Fixed-interest bonds 1,412 27.5 4.4 1,370 29.3 5.3
Inflation-linked assets
 (i)
 1,027 20.0 4.1 1,067 22.8 3.9
High-yield debt 324 6.3 5.3 292 6.3 6.3
Diversified asset funds 246 4.8 6.8 – – –
Property 210 4.1 6.8 168 3.6 6.8
Cash pending investment 12 0.2 5.9 36 0.8 4.6
 5,133 100.0 5.7 4,670 100.0 6.0
 
(i) Consists of government bonds and other assets providing inflation-linked revenue. 
(e) Movement in the year 
 
(f) Analysis of the actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 
(g) Pension scheme assets 
Financial Statements
118 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
29. Pensions continued 
The overall expected rate of return on assets is a weighted average based on the actual plan assets held in each class and the expected 
returns on separate asset classes less costs of administering the plan and taxes paid by the plan itself. The returns on separate asset classes 
are based on the expected median return over a 10-year period (for equities, high-yield debt and property) and appropriate market indices 
(for fixed-interest bonds and inflation-linked assets). These returns are calculated by the independent company actuary, and adjusted 
for factors specific to the investment portfolio of the Centrica Combined Common Investment Fund.  
Included within the Balance Sheet within non-current securities are £61 million (2011: £54 million) of investments, held by the Law Debenture 
Trust on behalf of the Company, as security in respect of the Centrica Unfunded Pension Scheme defined benefit section. Included within 
the pension scheme liabilities above are £37 million (2011: £34 million) relating to this scheme. 
The UK Registered Pension Schemes were subject to their triennial valuation carried out by T owers Watson, the schemes’ independent 
actuaries, at 31 March 2012. The results of this valuation were approved by the trustees of the schemes on 11 December 2012. Based 
on the valuation, the Group and the trustees agreed a revised schedule for deficit payments consisting of an amount of £37 million paid 
in the year to 31 December 2012 and £77 million per annum from 2013 to 2016. This payment profile replaces the deficit payments 
as agreed to in the 2009 triennial valuation. A continuing charge over the Humber power station provides additional security for the trustees. 
On 31 December 2012 the Group and the trustees also agreed to partially fund the deficit payments using an asset-backed contribution 
arrangement. Under the arrangement, certain loans to UK Group companies were transferred to a Scottish Limited Partnership established 
by the Group. The Group made a special contribution to the UK Registered Pension Schemes of £84 million; on the same date the schemes 
used this contribution to acquire an interest in the partnership for its fair value of £84 million. The schemes’ partnership interests entitle them 
to a distribution from the income of the partnership of £22 million per annum for 4 years. The partnership is controlled by Centrica and 
its results are consolidated by the Group. As the trustees’ interest in the partnership does not meet the definition of a plan asset under IAS 19, 
it is not reflected in the Balance Sheet. Distributions from the partnership to the schemes will be recognised as scheme assets in the future as 
they occur. 
Deficit payments are also being made in respect of the Direct Energy Marketing Limited Pension Plan in Canada. £4 million was paid in the 
year to 31 December 2012 and £7 million per annum is to be paid from 2013 to 2016 and £3 million in 2017. 
The Group also estimates that it will pay £105 million of ordinary employer contributions during 2013 at an average rate of 21% of 
pensionable pay. 
Five-year history of surplus/(deficit) 
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010 
£m 
2009
£m
2008
£m
Plan assets 5,133 4,670 4,335 3,533 2,642
Defined benefit obligations (5,045) (4,340) (4,574) (4,098) (2,755)
Surplus/(deficit) 88 330 (239) (565) (113)
 
Five-year history of experience gains/(losses) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Difference between the expected and actual return  
on scheme assets:  
Amount (£m) 130 – 154 344 (1,121)
Percentage of scheme assets 2.5% – 3.6% 9.7% 42.4%
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities:  
Amount (£m) 87 57 74 (104) –
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 1.7% 1.3% 1.6% 2.5% –
Total actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the  
Statement of Comprehensive Income:  
Amount (£m) (319) 198 (9) (804) (399)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 6.3% 4.6% 0.2% 19.6% 14.5%
 
30. Business combinations and asset purchases 
Principal acquisitions made during the year are described below.  
The business combinations are immaterial in aggregate to the Group’ s consolidated Financial Statements. The fair values are provisional 
unless stated otherwise. 
On 10 January 2012, the Group acquired control of a business comprising a portfolio of interests in a number of gas assets located in west 
central Alberta, Canada from Encana Corporation for CA$59 million (£37 million) in cash and Direct Energy’ s existing Entice asset with a fair 
value of CA$48 million (£30 million). No goodwill arose on the acquisition. The acquisition allows the Group to grow its North American 
Upstream gas business. The acquisition is included in the Direct Energy – Upstream and wholesale energy segment.  
(h) Pension scheme contributions 
(i) Five-year histories 
Business combinations 
Carrot Creek 
Financial Statements
119 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
30. Business combinations and asset purchases continued 
On 1 March 2012, the Group acquired 100% of the shares of Home Warranty Holding Corporation as well as the assets of HWOA LLC 
(HWA) for total cash consideration of $52 million (£32 million) including $10 million (£6 million) of deferred consideration. Goodwill of 
$47 million (£29 million) arose on the acquisition, of which 40% is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. HWA is a US home warranty 
protection plan company. The acquisition allows Direct Energy to sell home protection plans nationwide and provides further growth 
and integration opportunities. The acquisition is included in the Direct Energy – Residential and business services segment. 
On 22 August 2012, the Group acquired 100% of the shares of New York based energy retailers Energetix Inc. and NYSEG Solutions Inc. 
for total cash consideration of $121 million (£77 million) including $5 million (£3 million) of deferred consideration. Goodwill of $43 million 
(£27 million) arose on the acquisition, of which 100% is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. This acquisition will further strengthen 
Direct Energy’ s position as a leading competitive energy retailer in the US Northeast, increasing the number of residential and small 
commercial customer accounts by approximately 245,000. The acquisition is included in the Direct Energy – Residential energy supply 
and Business energy supply segments. 
Goodwill recognised on the above acquisitions is attributable to enhanced geographical presence, cost savings, synergies and growth 
opportunities.  
During the year, there have been no significant updates to the fair value entries posted in relation to acquisitions which occurred 
in 2011. The net impact of fair value updates on goodwill is an increase of £18 million. 
On 30 April 2012, the Group completed its acquisition of certain oil and gas production and development assets in the Norwegian North Sea 
from Statoil for total cash consideration of £770 million with an additional payment of up to $100 million (£62 million) contingent on future 
production performance. In addition, a tax liability of £144 million was assumed which is included in the purchase cost.  
On 30 April 2012, the Group completed its acquisition of certain non-operated interests in the gas and oil producing Statfjord field 
and associated satellite fields from ConocoPhillips for total cash consideration of £141 million. As part of this transaction, a pre-existing 
contract with ConocoPhillips with a fair value of £20 million (asset) was novated so that it is now entirely between Group companies. 
Accordingly, the value of this contract forms part of the asset acquisition cost. In addition, a tax liability of £25 million was assumed 
which is included in the purchase cost.  
During the year, the Group completed its acquisition of a portfolio of non-operated interests in producing oil and gas assets in the UK North 
Sea from T otal for total cash consideration of £133 million. The acquisition of the interests was executed through separate purchase 
agreements which completed on 11 May, 1 August and 23 August 2012. Certain assets in the original portfolio, when the deal was 
announced in February 2012, were not acquired since pre-emption rights in the respective fields were exercised.  
These asset purchases will help to deliver UK energy security and further expand the Group’ s upstream business. The acquisitions 
are included within the Centrica Energy – Gas segment. 
31. Disposals, discontinued operations and disposal groups held for sale 
On 30 April 2012, the Group disposed of a 50% interest in its Round 3 wind farm, which resulted in a profit on disposal of £43 million. 
On 1 June 2011, the Group completed its planned disposal of its European segment with the sale of the trade and assets of Oxxio B.V . 
for a total consideration of £111 million, which resulted in a loss on disposal of £56 million. 
32. Auditors’ remuneration 
Year ended 31 December 
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Fees payable to the Company’ s auditors for the audit of the Company’ s individual and consolidated financial 
statements 4.2 4.3
Audit of the Company’ s subsidiaries  1.1 1.4
T otal fees related to audit of parent and subsidiary entities  5.3 5.7
Fees payable to the Company’ s auditors and its associates for other services: 
Audit related assurance services 1.0 0.9
T ax advisory services 0.2 0.3
Corporate finance services 0.2 0.2
All other services 0.7 0.7
 7.4 7.8
Fees in respect of pension scheme audits 0.1 0.1
Home Warranty of America 
Energetix Inc and NYSEG Solutions Inc 
2011 Business Combinations – fair value updates 
Asset purchases 
Statoil asset acquisition 
ConocoPhillips asset acquisition 
Total asset acquisition 
Financial Statements
120 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
32. Auditors’ remuneration continued 
It is the Group’ s policy to seek competitive tenders for all major consultancy and advisory projects. Appointments are made taking 
into account factors including expertise, experience and cost. In addition, the Audit Committee has approved a detailed policy defining 
the types of work for which the Company’ s auditors can tender and the approvals required. In the past, the auditors have been engaged 
on assignments in addition to their statutory audit duties where their expertise and experience with the Group are particularly important, 
including due diligence reporting and reporting accountant services on acquisitions. 
33. Commitments and contingencies 
The Group procures commodities through a mixture of production from gas fields, power stations, wind farms and procurement contracts. 
Procurement contracts include short-term forward market purchases of gas and electricity at fixed and floating prices. They also include gas 
and electricity contracts indexed to market prices and long-term gas contracts with non-gas indexation. The commitments in relation 
to commodity purchase contracts disclosed below are stated net of amounts receivable under commodity sales contracts, where there 
is a right of set-off with the counterparty.  
The total volume of gas to be taken under certain long-term structured contracts depends on a number of factors, including the actual 
reserves of gas that are eventually determined to be extractable on an economic basis. The commitments disclosed below are based 
on the minimum quantities of gas that the Group is contracted to buy at estimated future prices. 
The commitments in this note differ in scope and in basis from the maturity analysis of energy derivatives disclosed in note 25. Whilst 
the commitments in relation to commodity purchase contracts include all purchase contracts, only certain procurement and sales contracts 
are within the scope of IAS 39 and included in note 25. In addition, the volumes used in calculating the maturity analysis in note 25 are 
estimated using valuation techniques, rather than being based on minimum contractual quantities and in note 25 there is no offset of amounts 
receivable under commodity sales contracts where there is a right of set-off with the counterparty. 
31 December 
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Commitments in relation to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment: 
Acquisition of Statoil oil and gas assets – 983
Development of Norwegian oil and gas assets 283 –
Development of Cygnus gas field 88 –
Development of York gas field – 82
Other capital expenditure 21 87
Commitments in relation to the acquisition of intangible assets: 
Renewable obligation certificates to be purchased from joint ventures
 (i)
 1,376 1,377
Renewable obligation certificates to be purchased from other parties 784 774
EUAs and CERs 42 44
Other intangible assets
  (iv)
 105 193
Other commitments: 
Commodity purchase contracts
 (ii)
 51,933 58,311
LNG capacity 844 844
Transportation capacity 936 969
Outsourcing of services 277 348
Commitments to invest in joint ventures 174 234
Other long term commitments 562 777
Operating lease commitments: 
Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases 
(iii) (iv)
 974 950
 
(i) Renewable obligation certificates are purchased from several joint ventures which produce power from wind energy under long term offtake agreements (up to 
15 years). The commitments disclosed above are the gross contractual commitments and do not take into account the Group’s economic interest in the joint venture. 
(ii) At 31 December the maturity analysis for commodity purchase contracts was: <1 year £9.2 billion, 1-2 years £7.2 billion, 2-3 years £5.9 billion, 3-4 years £5.1 billion, 
4-5 years £3.0 billion and >5 years £21.5 billion (2011: <1 year £10.3 billion, 1-2 years £8.0 billion, 2-3 years £6.3 billion, 3-4 years £5.6 billion, 4-5 years £4.7 billion 
and >5 years £23.4 billion). 
(iii) At 31 December the maturity analysis for the total minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases was: <1 year £222 million, 1-2 years £98 million,  
2-3 years £82 million, 3-4 years £64 million, 4-5 years £54 million and >5 years £454 million (2011: <1 year £157 million, 1-2 years £130 million, 2-3 years £88 million,  
3-4 years £65 million, 4-5 years £54 million and >5 years £456 million). 
(iv) Included within future minimum lease payments and other intangible assets are commitments of £67 million (2011: £122 million) relating to exploration activity. 
(a) Commitments 
Financial Statements
121 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
33. Commitments and contingencies continued 
Lease payments recognised as an expense in the year were as follows: 
Year ended 31 December 
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Minimum lease payments (net of sub-lease receipts) 125 126
Contingent rents – renewables 
(i)
 130 132
 
(i) The Group has entered into long-term arrangements with renewable providers to purchase physical power, renewable obligation certificates and levy exemption 
certificates from renewable sources. Payments made under these contracts are contingent upon actual production and so there is no commitment to a minimum 
lease payment (2011: nil). Payments made for physical power are charged to the Income Statement as incurred and disclosed as contingent rents. 
 
In connection with the Group’ s energy trading, transportation and upstream activities, certain Group companies have entered into 
contracts under which they may be required to prepay, provide credit support or other collateral in the event of a significant deterioration 
in creditworthiness. The extent of credit support is contingent upon the balance owing to the third party at the point of deterioration. 
The Group has provided a number of guarantees and indemnities in respect of decommissioning costs; the two most significant indemnities 
relate to the decommissioning costs associated with the Morecambe and Statfjord fields. These indemnities are to the previous owners 
of these fields. Under the licence conditions of the fields, the previous owners will have exposure to the decommissioning costs should 
these liabilities not be fully discharged by the Group.  
The security is to be provided when the estimated future net revenue stream from the associated gas field falls below a predetermined 
proportion of the estimated decommissioning cost. The nature of the security may take a number of different forms and will remain in force 
until the costs of such decommissioning have been irrevocably discharged and the relevant legal decommissioning notices in respect 
of the relevant fields have been revoked.  
Under the Carbon Emissions Reduction T arget (‘CERT’) scheme, British Gas was required to meet a variety of carbon emissions reduction 
targets by 31 December 2012. Ofgem has indicated that mitigating actions undertaken after this date will also be taken into account 
when assessing delivery. Accordingly the Group believes it will have fulfilled the CERT requirements. Ofgem is still to formally conclude 
on the Group’ s compliance and has the option of enforcement action if they consider the targets have not been met.  
As the outcome of the Ofgem review cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty, it is not possible to accurately assess the impact 
of enforcement action (if any). 
There are no other material contingent liabilities.  
34. Related party transactions 
During the year, the Group entered into the following arms length transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group 
and had the following associated balances: 
  2012 2011
 
Sale 
of goods  
and services 
£m 
Purchase 
of goods
and services
£m
Amounts 
owed from
£m
Amounts 
owed to
£m
Sale 
of goods 
and services
£m
Purchase  
of goods 
and services 
£m 
Amounts
 owed from
£m
Amounts
 owed to
£m
Joint ventures:   
Wind farms (as defined in note 16) 27 78 459 47 25 92 312 46
Associates:   
Nuclear (as defined in note 16)  157 598 8 73 278 516 19 65
Other 4 – 18 – – 8 17 –
 188 676 485 120 303 616 348 111
 
Investment and funding transactions for joint ventures and associates are disclosed in note 16. The terms of the outstanding balances related 
to trade receivables from related parties are typically 30 to 120 days. The balances are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No provision 
for bad or doubtful debts owed by related parties was required (2011: nil). 
Key management personnel comprise members of the Board and Executive Committee, a total of 14 individuals at 31 December 2012 
(2011: 15). Key management personnel and their families purchase gas, electricity and home services products from the Group for domestic 
purposes on terms equal to those for other employees of the Group. 
Remuneration of key management personnel  
31 December 
 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m
Short-term benefits 8 7
Post-employment benefits 2 2
Share-based payments 6 8
 16 17
 
(b) Guarantees and indemnities 
(c) Contingent liabilities 
Financial Statements
122 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
35. Fixed-fee service and insurance contracts 
The fixed-fee service claims and insurance claims notified during the year were £92 million (2011: £115 million) and £342 million 
(2011: £356 million) respectively and were exactly matched by expenses related to fixed-fee service and insurance contracts. All claims 
are settled immediately and in full. Due to the short lead time between claims being incurred and claims being rectified, there are no material 
provisions outstanding at the Balance Sheet date (2011: nil).  
Year ended 31 December 
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
T otal revenue 1,239 1,167
Expenses relating to fixed-fee service and insurance contracts 954 904
Deferred income 84 68
Accrued income 35 28
 
The Group considers the adequacy of estimated future cash flows under the contracts to meet expected future costs under the contracts. 
Any deficiency is charged immediately to the Income Statement. Service requests are sensitive to the reliability of appliances as well 
as the impact of weather conditions. Each incremental 1% increase in service and insurance requests would impact profit and equity 
by approximately £10 million (2011: £9 million). The contracts are not exposed to any interest rate risk or significant credit risk and 
do not contain any embedded derivatives. See note S8 for more information. 
36. Events after the balance sheet date 
The Directors propose a final dividend of 11.78 pence per ordinary share (totalling £602 million) for the year ended 31 December 2012. 
The dividend will be submitted for formal approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 13 May 2013 and, subject to approval, 
will be paid on 12 June 2013 to those shareholders registered on 26 April 2013. 
 
As part of the 2009 transaction to acquire a 20% interest in British Energy, EDF Energy and the Group formed an 80/20 arrangement to 
undertake pre-development activities for a nuclear new build programme, with the intention of constructing, operating and decommissioning 
four European Pressurised Nuclear Reactors. On 4 February 2013, the Group announced its decision not to proceed with this nuclear new 
build investment. Accordingly, the Group has recorded an impairment of £231 million at the year end. This amount includes the carrying value 
of its investment in NNB Holding Company Limited as well as value attributed to nuclear new build in the British Energy acquisition. No further 
impairments are expected as a result of this decision and the Group’ s 20% interest in the existing nuclear power stations in the UK remains 
unaffected. 
As a result of this decision, the Group also announced on 4 February 2013 its intention to launch a £500 million share repurchase programme 
to return surplus capital to shareholders, to be conducted over 12 months.
Dividends 
Nuclear new build and share repurchase programme
Financial Statements
123 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 
 
S1. General information 
Centrica plc is a Company domiciled and incorporated in the UK. The address 
of the registered office is Millstream, Maidenhead Road, Windsor, Berkshire, 
SL4 5GD. The nature of the Group’s operations and principal activities are set 
out in note S4 and in the Directors’ Report – Business Review on pages 5 
to 50. 
The consolidated Financial Statements of Centrica plc are presented 
in pounds sterling. Operations and transactions conducted in currencies other 
than pounds sterling are included in the consolidated Financial Statements 
in accordance with the foreign currencies accounting policy set out in note S2. 
S2. Summary of significant accounting policies  
The Group’s Income Statement and segmental note separately identify 
the effects of re-measurement of certain financial instruments, and items 
which are exceptional, in order to provide readers with a clear and consistent 
presentation of the Group’s underlying performance, as described below. 
As part of its energy procurement activities, the Group enters into a range 
of commodity contracts designed to achieve security of energy supply. 
These contracts comprise both purchases and sales and cover a wide range 
of volumes, prices and timescales. The majority of the underlying supply 
comes from high-volume, long-term contracts which are complemented 
by short-term arrangements. These short-term contracts are entered into 
for the purpose of balancing energy supplies and customer demand 
and to optimise the price paid by the Group. Short-term demand can vary 
significantly as a result of factors such as weather, power generation profiles 
and short-term movements in market prices. 
Many of the energy procurement contracts are held for the purpose of receipt 
or delivery of commodities in accordance with the Group’s purchase, sale 
or usage requirements and are therefore out of scope of IAS 39. However, 
a number of contracts are considered to be derivative financial instruments 
and are required to be fair valued under IAS 39, primarily because their terms 
include the ability to trade elements of the contracted volumes on a net- 
settled basis. 
The Group has shown the fair value adjustments arising on these contracts 
separately in the certain re-measurements column. This is because the 
intention of management is, subject to short-term demand balancing, 
to use these energy supplies to meet customer demand. Accordingly, 
management believes the ultimate net charge to cost of sales will be 
consistent with the price of energy agreed in these contracts and that 
the fair value adjustments will reverse as the energy is supplied over the life 
of the contract. This makes the fair value re-measurements very different 
in nature from costs arising from the physical delivery of energy in the year. 
At the balance sheet date the fair value represents the difference between 
the prices agreed in the respective contracts and the actual or anticipated 
market price of acquiring the same amount of energy on the open market. 
The movement in the fair value taken to certain re-measurements in the Group 
Income Statement represents the unwinding of the contracted volume 
delivered or consumed during the year, combined with the change in fair value 
of future contracted energy as a result of movements in forward energy prices 
during the year. 
The Group utilises over the counter and exchange traded instruments to 
optimise the price paid by the Group. The Group recognises the realised gains 
and losses on these contracts in business performance when the underlying 
transaction occurs.  
As an integrated energy business the Group also enters into a range of 
commodity contracts designed to secure the value of its underlying 
production, generation, storage and transportation assets, consistent with 
an integrated energy business in the UK and North America. The fair value 
movements on these contracts are also shown separately in the certain 
re-measurements column. This is because the fair value movements on these 
contracts are not matched with fair value movements of the underlying assets, 
since not all the underlying assets are fair valued. These adjustments represent 
the significant majority of the items included in certain re-measurements. 
In addition to these, however, the Group has identified a number 
of comparable contractual arrangements where the difference between 
the price which the Group expects to pay or receive under a contract 
and the market price is required to be fair valued by IAS 39. These additional 
items relate to cross-border transportation or transmission capacity, storage 
capacity and contracts relating to the sale of energy by-products, on which 
economic value has been created which is not wholly recognised under 
the requirements of IAS 39. For these arrangements the related fair value 
adjustments are also included under certain re-measurements. 
These arrangements are managed separately from proprietary energy trading 
activities where trades are entered into speculatively for the purpose of making 
profits in their own right. These proprietary trades are included in the results 
before certain re-measurements. 
In addition, certain re-measurements include the effects of unwinding 
the acquisition-date fair values attributable to forward energy procurement 
and energy sales contracts arising on the acquisition of Strategic Investments, 
as described in note 2. The Group has shown the effect of unwinding 
the acquisition-date fair values attributable to forward energy procurement 
and energy sales contracts for these investments separately as a certain 
re-measurement as the intention is to use these energy supplies in the normal 
course of business and management believes the ultimate net charge 
reflected before the unwind of acquisition-date fair values will be consistent 
with the price of energy agreed within these contracts. Such presentation 
is consistent with the internal performance measures used by the Group. 
As permitted by IAS 1 (Revised), Presentation of Financial Statements, certain 
items are presented separately. The items that the Group separately presents 
as exceptional are items which are of a non-recurring nature and in the 
judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed separately by virtue 
of their nature, size or incidence in order to obtain a clear and consistent 
presentation of the Group’s underlying business performance.  
The Group Financial Statements consolidate the Financial Statements 
of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) 
up to 31 December each year, and incorporates its share of the results 
of jointly controlled entities and associates using the equity method 
of accounting. 
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial 
and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from 
its activities. 
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are 
consolidated from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective 
date of disposal, as appropriate. Where necessary, adjustments are made 
to the Financial Statements of subsidiaries, associates and jointly-controlled 
entities to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used 
by the Group. 
When the Group ceases to have control or significant influence, any retained 
interest in the entity is re-measured to its fair value with the change in carrying 
amount recognised in profit or loss. This fair value becomes the initial carrying 
amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest 
as a joint venture, associate or financial asset. 
The Group’s operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with 
the internal reporting provided to and regularly reviewed by the Group’s 
Executive Committee for the purposes of evaluating segment performance 
and allocating resources. 
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic 
benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be measured reliably. 
Revenue includes amounts receivable for goods and services provided 
in the normal course of business, net of discounts, rebates, VAT and other 
sales-related taxes. 
Energy supply: revenue is recognised on the basis of energy supplied during 
the year. Revenue for energy supply activities includes an assessment
Income Statement presentation 
(i) Certain re-measurements 
(ii) Exceptional items 
Basis of consolidation 
Segmental reporting 
Revenue 
Financial Statements
124 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION CONTINUED 
 
S2. Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued  
of energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading 
and the year end (unread). Unread gas and electricity is estimated using 
historical consumption patterns, taking into account the industry reconciliation 
process for total gas and total electricity usage by supplier, and is included 
in accrued energy income within trade and other receivables. 
Proprietary energy trading: revenue comprises both realised (settled) 
and unrealised (fair value changes) net gains and losses from trading 
in physical and financial energy contracts. 
Fixed-fee service and insurance contracts: revenue from these contracts 
is recognised in the Group Income Statement with regard to the incidence 
of risk over the life of the contract, reflecting the seasonal propensity of claims 
to be made under the contracts and the benefits receivable by the customer, 
which span the life of the contract as a result of emergency maintenance being 
available throughout the contract term. 
Amounts paid in advance greater than recognised revenue are treated 
as deferred income, with any paid in arrears recognised as accrued income. 
For one-off services, such as installations, revenue is recognised at the date 
of service provision. 
Storage services: storage capacity revenues are recognised evenly over 
the contract period, whilst commodity revenues for the injection and 
withdrawal of gas are recognised at the point of gas flowing into or out 
of the storage facilities. Gas purchases and gas sales transactions entered 
into to optimise the performance of the gas storage facilities are presented net 
within revenue. 
Upstream production: revenue associated with exploration and production 
sales (of natural gas, crude oil and condensates) is recognised when title 
passes to the customer. Revenue from the production of natural gas, oil 
and condensates in which the Group has an interest with other producers 
is recognised based on the Group’s working interest and the terms 
of the relevant production sharing arrangements (the entitlement method). 
Where differences arise between production sold and the Group’s share 
of production, this is accounted for as an overlift or underlift (see separate 
accounting policy). Purchases and sales entered into to optimise the 
performance of production facilities are presented net within revenue. 
Power generation: revenue is recognised on the basis of power supplied 
during the period. Power purchases and sales entered into to optimise the 
performance of power generation facilities are presented net within revenue. 
Interest income: interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference 
to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, 
which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through 
the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying value. 
Energy supply includes the cost of gas and electricity produced and 
purchased during the year taking into account the industry reconciliation 
process for total gas and total electricity usage by supplier, and related 
transportation, distribution, royalty costs and bought-in materials and services. 
Cost of sales relating to fixed-fee service and insurance contracts includes 
direct labour and related overheads on installation work, repairs and service 
contracts in the year. 
Borrowing costs that arise in connection with the acquisition, construction 
or production of a qualifying asset are capitalised and subsequently amortised 
in line with the depreciation of the related asset. Borrowing costs are 
capitalised from the time of acquisition or from the beginning of construction 
or production until the point at which the qualifying asset is ready for use. 
Where a specific financing arrangement is in place, the specific borrowing rate 
for that arrangement is applied. For non-specific financing arrangements,  
a Group financing rate representative of the weighted average borrowing 
rate of the Group is used. Borrowing costs not arising in connection with 
the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are expensed. 
The Group operates a number of employee share schemes, detailed 
in the Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 75 and in note S7, under which 
it makes equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-
settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant 
(excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions). The fair value 
determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis together with 
a corresponding increase in equity over the vesting period, based on the 
Group’s estimate of the number of awards that will vest, and adjusted for the 
effect of non-market-based vesting conditions. 
Fair value is measured using methods appropriate to each of the different 
schemes as follows: 
LTIS: EPS, EP and KPI awards  Market value on the date of grant 
LTIS: TSR awards  A Monte Carlo simulation to predict the total 
shareholder return performance 
SAS and DMSS Market value on the date of grant  
 
The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling, 
which is the functional currency of the Company and the Group’s presentation 
currency. Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and 
items included in the Financial Statements of each entity are measured using 
that functional currency. Transactions in foreign currencies are, on initial 
recognition, recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date 
of the transaction.  
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance 
sheet date. All differences are included in the Group Income Statement for 
the period with the exception of exchange differences on foreign currency 
borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity. 
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal or partial disposal of the net 
investment, at which time they are recognised in the Group Income 
Statement.  
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a currency 
other than the functional currency of the entity concerned are translated using 
the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. 
For the purpose of presenting consolidated Financial Statements, the assets 
and liabilities of the Group’s foreign subsidiary undertakings, jointly controlled 
entities and associates are translated into pounds sterling at exchange rates 
prevailing on the balance sheet date. The results of foreign subsidiary 
undertakings, jointly controlled entities and associates are translated into 
pounds sterling at average rates of exchange for the relevant period.  
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the opening net assets 
and the results are transferred to the Group’s foreign currency translation 
reserve, a separate component of equity, and are reported in the Statement 
of Comprehensive Income. In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with 
assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative 
translation difference arising in the foreign currency translation reserve 
is charged or credited to the Group Income Statement on disposal. 
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings, foreign currency swaps 
and forward exchange contracts used to hedge foreign currency net 
investments in foreign subsidiary undertakings, jointly controlled entities and 
associates are taken directly to reserves and are reported in the Statement 
of Comprehensive Income. All other exchange movements are recognised 
in the Group Income Statement for the year. 
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. 
The cost of the acquisition is measured as the cash paid and the aggregate 
of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of other assets transferred, liabilities 
incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange 
for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. 
The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet 
the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 (revised), Business Combinations, 
Cost of sales 
Borrowing costs 
Employee share schemes 
Foreign currencies 
Business combinations and goodwill 
Financial Statements
125 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION CONTINUED 
 
S2. Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued 
are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current 
assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for resale in accordance 
with IFRS 5, Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, 
which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell. 
Goodwill arising on a business combination represents the excess of the cost 
of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable 
assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate 
at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost 
and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment 
losses. If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the net fair value 
of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised 
immediately in the Group Income Statement. 
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture entity, any amount 
of goodwill attributed to that entity is included in the determination of the profit 
or loss on disposal. 
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition 
at cost. Intangible assets include emissions trading schemes, renewable 
obligation certificates, certain exploration and evaluation expenditures, 
brands and application software, the accounting policies for which are dealt 
with separately below. For purchased application software, for example 
investments in customer relationship management and billing systems, 
cost includes contractors’ charges, materials, directly-attributable labour 
and directly-attributable overheads.  
Capitalisation begins when expenditure for the asset is being incurred 
and activities necessary to prepare the asset for use are in progress. 
Capitalisation ceases when substantially all the activities that are necessary 
to prepare the asset for use are complete. Amortisation commences at 
the point of commercial deployment. The cost of intangible assets acquired 
in a business combination is their fair value as at the date of acquisition. 
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any 
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. 
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite. 
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their useful economic 
life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that 
the intangible asset could be impaired. The amortisation period and 
the amortisation method for an intangible asset are reviewed at least 
at each financial year end. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected 
pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are 
accounted for on a prospective basis by changing the amortisation period or 
method, as appropriate, and treated as changes in accounting estimates.  
Intangible assets are derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic 
benefits are expected from their use. 
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment 
annually, and whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset could 
be impaired, either individually or at the CGU level. Such intangibles are 
not amortised. The useful life of an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life 
is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life assessment 
continues to be supportable. If not, the change in the useful life assessment 
from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.  
The amortisation periods for the principal categories of intangible assets 
are as follows: 
Application software up to 15 years 
Licences up to 20 years 
Contractual customer relationships up to 20 years 
Strategic identifiable acquired brand  Indefinite 
 
Granted carbon dioxide emissions allowances received in a period are 
recognised initially at nominal value (nil value). Purchased carbon dioxide 
emissions allowances are recognised initially at cost (purchase price) within 
intangible assets. A liability is recognised when the level of emissions exceeds 
the level of allowances granted. The liability is measured at the cost of 
purchased allowances up to the level of purchased allowances held, and then 
at the market price of allowances ruling at the balance sheet date, with 
movements in the liability recognised in operating profit. 
Forward contracts for the purchase or sale of carbon dioxide emissions 
allowances are measured at fair value with gains and losses arising from 
changes in fair value recognised in the Group Income Statement. The 
intangible asset is surrendered and the liability is utilised at the end of the 
compliance period to reflect the consumption of economic benefits. 
Purchased renewable obligation certificates are recognised initially at cost 
within intangible assets. A liability for the renewables obligation is recognised 
based on the level of electricity supplied to customers, and is calculated 
in accordance with percentages set by the UK Government and the 
renewable obligation certificate buyout price for that period.  
The intangible asset is surrendered and the liability is utilised at the end 
of the compliance period to reflect the consumption of economic benefits. 
Any recycling benefit related to the submission of renewable obligation 
certificates is recognised in the Group Income Statement when received. 
The Group uses the successful efforts method of accounting for exploration 
and evaluation expenditure. Exploration and evaluation expenditure associated 
with an exploration well, including acquisition costs related to exploration 
and evaluation activities, are capitalised initially as intangible assets. 
Certain expenditures such as geological and geophysical exploration 
costs are expensed. If the prospects are subsequently determined 
to be successful on completion of evaluation, the relevant expenditure 
including licence acquisition costs is transferred to PP&E and is subsequently 
depreciated on a unit of production basis. If the prospects are subsequently 
determined to be unsuccessful on completion of evaluation, the associated 
costs are expensed in the period in which that determination is made.  
All field development costs are capitalised as PP&E. Such costs relate 
to the acquisition and installation of production facilities and include 
development drilling costs, project-related engineering and other technical 
services costs. PP&E, including rights and concessions related to production 
activities, are depreciated from the commencement of production in the fields 
concerned, using the unit of production method, based on all of the 2P 
reserves of those fields. Changes in these estimates are dealt with 
prospectively. 
The net carrying value of fields in production and development is compared 
on a field-by-field basis with the likely discounted future net revenues to 
be derived from the remaining commercial reserves. An impairment loss 
is recognised where it is considered that recorded amounts are unlikely 
to be fully recovered from the net present value of future net revenues. 
Exploration assets are reviewed annually for indicators of impairment 
and production and development assets are tested annually for impairment. 
Under the equity method, investments in jointly controlled entities 
and associates are carried at cost plus post-acquisition changes 
in the Group’s share of net assets, less any impairment in value in individual 
investments. The Group Income Statement reflects the Group’s share of the 
results of operations after tax and interest. 
Certain exploration and production activity is conducted through joint ventures, 
where the venturers have a direct interest in and jointly control the assets 
of the venture. The results, assets, liabilities and cash flows of these jointly 
controlled assets are included in the consolidated Financial Statements 
in proportion to the Group’s interest. 
Other intangible assets 
EU Emissions Trading Scheme and renewable obligations 
certificates 
Exploration, evaluation, development and production 
assets 
Interests in joint ventures and associates 
  
  
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION CONTINUED 
 
S2. Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued  
PP&E is included in the Group Balance Sheet at cost, less accumulated 
depreciation and any provisions for impairment. The initial cost of an asset 
comprises its purchase price or construction cost and any costs directly 
attributable to bringing the asset into operation. The purchase price or 
construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other 
consideration given to acquire the asset. 
Subsequent expenditure in respect of items of PP&E such as the replacement 
of major parts, major inspections or overhauls, are capitalised as part of the 
cost of the related asset where it is probable that future economic benefits 
will arise as a result of the expenditure and the cost can be reliably measured. 
All other subsequent expenditure, including the costs of day-to-day servicing, 
repairs and maintenance, is expensed as incurred. 
Freehold land is not depreciated. Other PP&E, with the exception of upstream 
production assets (see above), are depreciated on a straight-line basis at rates 
sufficient to write off the cost, less estimated residual values, of individual 
assets over their estimated useful lives. The depreciation periods for the 
principal categories of assets are as follows: 
Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 years 
Plant 5 to 20 years 
Power stations and wind farms up to 30 years 
Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years 
Storage  up to 40 years 
 
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful 
economic lives on the same basis as for owned assets, or where shorter, 
the lease term. 
The carrying values of PP&E are reviewed for impairment when events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be 
recoverable. Residual values and useful lives are reassessed annually 
and if necessary changes are accounted for prospectively. 
The Group reviews the carrying amounts of PP&E, intangible assets, 
interests in joint ventures and associates and goodwill annually, or more 
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the recoverable 
amounts may be lower than their carrying amounts. Where an asset does 
not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group 
estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and fair value less costs 
to sell. At inception, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s CGUs 
or groups of CGUs that expect to benefit from the business combination 
in which the goodwill arose. If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) 
is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount 
of the asset (or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. Any impairment 
is expensed immediately in the Group Income Statement. Any goodwill 
impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill 
allocated to the CGU and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the 
basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.  
An impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimate 
used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment 
loss was recognised, with the exception of goodwill impairment which is never 
reversed. Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying 
amount of the asset (or CGU) is increased to the revised estimate of its 
recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does 
not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had 
no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or CGU) in prior years. 
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the Group Income Statement 
immediately. After such a reversal the depreciation or amortisation charge, 
where relevant, is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised 
carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over 
its remaining useful life.  
Offtake arrangements for oil and gas produced from jointly owned operations 
are often such that it is not practical for each participant to receive or sell its 
precise share of the overall production during the period. This results in short-
term imbalances between cumulative production entitlement and cumulative 
sales, referred to as overlift and underlift.  
An overlift payable, or underlift receivable, is recognised at the balance sheet 
date within Trade and other payables, or Trade and other receivables, 
respectively and measured at market value, with movements in the period 
recognised within cost of sales. 
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based 
on the substance of the arrangement and requires an assessment of whether 
the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset 
or assets and whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset. 
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease 
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. 
All other leases are classified as operating leases. Assets held under finance 
leases are capitalised and included in PP&E at their fair value, or if lower, 
at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined 
at the inception of the lease. The obligations relating to finance leases, 
net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included within bank 
loans and other borrowings, with the amount payable within 12 months 
included in bank overdrafts and loans within current liabilities. 
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction 
of the finance lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest 
on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly 
against income. 
Payments under operating leases are charged to the Group Income 
Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. 
Inventories are valued on a weighted-average cost basis and at the lower of 
cost and estimated net realisable value after allowance for redundant and 
slow-moving items. 
Provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost 
of decommissioning gas production facilities at the end of the producing lives 
of fields, and storage facilities and power stations at the end of the useful life of 
the facilities, based on price levels and technology at the balance sheet date. 
When this provision gives access to future economic benefits, 
a decommissioning asset is recognised and included as part of the associated 
PP&E and depreciated accordingly. Changes in these estimates and changes 
to the discount rates are dealt with prospectively and reflected as an 
adjustment to the provision and corresponding decommissioning asset 
included within PP&E. The unwinding of the discount on the provision 
is included in the Group Income Statement within interest expense. 
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are 
measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. 
No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held 
for sale. 
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their 
carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than 
through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale 
is highly probable and the asset (or disposal group) is available for immediate 
sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale 
which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within 
one year from the date of classification. 
The profits or losses and cash flows that relate to a major component 
of the Group or geographical region that has been sold or is classified as held  
Property, plant and equipment 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, intangible 
assets, investments in joint ventures and associates and 
goodwill 
Overlift and underlift 
Leases 
Inventories 
Decommissioning costs 
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale and 
discontinued operations 
Financial Statements
126 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION CONTINUED 
 
S2. Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued  
PP&E is included in the Group Balance Sheet at cost, less accumulated 
depreciation and any provisions for impairment. The initial cost of an asset 
comprises its purchase price or construction cost and any costs directly 
attributable to bringing the asset into operation. The purchase price or 
construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other 
consideration given to acquire the asset. 
Subsequent expenditure in respect of items of PP&E such as the replacement 
of major parts, major inspections or overhauls, are capitalised as part of the 
cost of the related asset where it is probable that future economic benefits 
will arise as a result of the expenditure and the cost can be reliably measured. 
All other subsequent expenditure, including the costs of day-to-day servicing, 
repairs and maintenance, is expensed as incurred. 
Freehold land is not depreciated. Other PP&E, with the exception of upstream 
production assets (see above), are depreciated on a straight-line basis at rates 
sufficient to write off the cost, less estimated residual values, of individual 
assets over their estimated useful lives. The depreciation periods for the 
principal categories of assets are as follows: 
Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 years 
Plant 5 to 20 years 
Power stations and wind farms up to 30 years 
Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years 
Storage  up to 40 years 
 
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful 
economic lives on the same basis as for owned assets, or where shorter, 
the lease term. 
The carrying values of PP&E are reviewed for impairment when events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be 
recoverable. Residual values and useful lives are reassessed annually 
and if necessary changes are accounted for prospectively. 
The Group reviews the carrying amounts of PP&E, intangible assets, 
interests in joint ventures and associates and goodwill annually, or more 
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the recoverable 
amounts may be lower than their carrying amounts. Where an asset does 
not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group 
estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and fair value less costs 
to sell. At inception, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s CGUs 
or groups of CGUs that expect to benefit from the business combination 
in which the goodwill arose. If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) 
is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount 
of the asset (or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. Any impairment 
is expensed immediately in the Group Income Statement. Any goodwill 
impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill 
allocated to the CGU and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the 
basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.  
An impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimate 
used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment 
loss was recognised, with the exception of goodwill impairment which is never 
reversed. Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying 
amount of the asset (or CGU) is increased to the revised estimate of its 
recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does 
not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had 
no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or CGU) in prior years. 
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the Group Income Statement 
immediately. After such a reversal the depreciation or amortisation charge, 
where relevant, is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised 
carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over 
its remaining useful life.  
Offtake arrangements for oil and gas produced from jointly owned operations 
are often such that it is not practical for each participant to receive or sell its 
precise share of the overall production during the period. This results in short-
term imbalances between cumulative production entitlement and cumulative 
sales, referred to as overlift and underlift.  
An overlift payable, or underlift receivable, is recognised at the balance sheet 
date within Trade and other payables, or Trade and other receivables, 
respectively and measured at market value, with movements in the period 
recognised within cost of sales. 
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based 
on the substance of the arrangement and requires an assessment of whether 
the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset 
or assets and whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset. 
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease 
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. 
All other leases are classified as operating leases. Assets held under finance 
leases are capitalised and included in PP&E at their fair value, or if lower, 
at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined 
at the inception of the lease. The obligations relating to finance leases, 
net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included within bank 
loans and other borrowings, with the amount payable within 12 months 
included in bank overdrafts and loans within current liabilities. 
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction 
of the finance lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest 
on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly 
against income. 
Payments under operating leases are charged to the Group Income 
Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. 
Inventories are valued on a weighted-average cost basis and at the lower of 
cost and estimated net realisable value after allowance for redundant and 
slow-moving items. 
Provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost 
of decommissioning gas production facilities at the end of the producing lives 
of fields, and storage facilities and power stations at the end of the useful life of 
the facilities, based on price levels and technology at the balance sheet date. 
When this provision gives access to future economic benefits, 
a decommissioning asset is recognised and included as part of the associated 
PP&E and depreciated accordingly. Changes in these estimates and changes 
to the discount rates are dealt with prospectively and reflected as an 
adjustment to the provision and corresponding decommissioning asset 
included within PP&E. The unwinding of the discount on the provision 
is included in the Group Income Statement within interest expense. 
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are 
measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. 
No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held 
for sale. 
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their 
carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than 
through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale 
is highly probable and the asset (or disposal group) is available for immediate 
sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale 
which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within 
one year from the date of classification. 
The profits or losses and cash flows that relate to a major component 
of the Group or geographical region that has been sold or is classified as held  
Property, plant and equipment 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, intangible 
assets, investments in joint ventures and associates and 
goodwill 
Overlift and underlift 
Leases 
Inventories 
Decommissioning costs 
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale and 
discontinued operations 
Financial Statements
127 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION CONTINUED 
 
S2. Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued 
for sale are presented separately from continuing operations as discontinued 
operations within the Group Income Statement and Group Cash Flow 
Statement. 
The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes. The cost 
of providing benefits under the defined benefit schemes is determined 
separately for each scheme using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation 
method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which 
they occur. They are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.  
The cost of providing retirement pensions and other benefits is charged 
to the Group Income Statement over the periods benefiting from employees’ 
service. Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the 
benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis 
over the average period until the benefits become vested. The difference 
between the expected return on scheme assets and the change in present 
value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time is recognised 
in the Group Income Statement within interest income or interest expense.  
The retirement benefit liability or asset recognised in the Group Balance Sheet 
represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation of the schemes 
as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and the fair value of the 
schemes’ assets. The present value of the defined benefit obligation  
is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest 
rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency 
in which the benefits are paid, and that have terms of maturity approximating 
to the terms of the related pension liability. 
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged 
as an operating expense as they fall due. 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal 
or constructive) as a result of a past event, that can be measured reliably, 
and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation. 
Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure 
required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted 
to present value where the effect is material. Where discounting is used, 
the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised 
in the Group Income Statement within interest expense. Onerous contract 
provisions are recognised where the unavoidable costs of meeting the 
obligations under a contract exceed the economic benefits expected to 
be received under it. Contracts to purchase or sell energy are reviewed 
on a portfolio basis given the fungible nature of energy, whereby it is assumed 
that the highest priced purchase contract supplies the highest priced sales 
contract and the lowest priced sales contract is supplied by the lowest priced 
purchase contract. 
Current tax, including UK corporation tax, UK petroleum revenue tax 
and foreign tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) 
using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted 
by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences identified at 
the balance sheet date, except to the extent that the deferred tax arises from 
the initial recognition of goodwill (if amortisation of goodwill is not deductible 
for tax purposes) or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction 
which is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction affects 
neither accounting profit nor taxable profit and loss. Temporary differences are 
differences between the carrying amount of the Group’s assets and liabilities 
and their tax base.  
Deferred tax liabilities may be offset against deferred tax assets within 
the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax group. Any remaining deferred 
tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, 
it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, 
within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future, against which 
the deductible temporary difference can be utilised. 
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on subsidiaries, 
jointly controlled entities and associates, except where the timing of the 
reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable 
that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in 
the periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, based on tax rates 
and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance 
sheet date. Measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax 
consequences expected from the manner in which the asset or liability is 
recovered or settled. 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group Balance 
Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the 
instrument. Financial assets are de-recognised when the Group no longer has 
the rights to cash flows, the risks and rewards of ownership or control of the 
asset. Financial liabilities are de-recognised when the obligation under the 
liability is discharged, cancelled or expires. 
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less 
an allowance for any uncollectible amounts. Provision is made when there 
is objective evidence that the Group may not be able to collect the trade 
receivable. Balances are written off when recoverability is assessed as being 
remote. If collection is due in one year or less they are classified as current 
assets. If not they are presented as non-current assets. 
Trade payables are recognised at original invoice amount. If payment is due 
within one year or less they are classified as current liabilities. If not, they are 
presented as non-current liabilities. 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable 
to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the 
proceeds received. Own equity instruments that are reacquired (treasury or 
own shares) are deducted from equity. No gain or loss is recognised in the 
Group Income Statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the 
Group’s own equity instruments.  
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances with 
banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to known amounts 
of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have 
an original maturity of three months or less. 
For the purpose of the Group Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash 
equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, 
net of outstanding bank overdrafts. 
All interest-bearing loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair 
value net of directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, 
interest-bearing loans and other borrowings are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method, except when they are 
the hedged item in an effective fair value hedge relationship where the carrying 
value is also adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with 
the hedged risks. Such fair value movements are recognised in the Group 
Income Statement. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any 
issue costs, discount or premium. 
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets 
that are designated as available-for-sale, which are recognised initially at fair 
value within the Group Balance Sheet. Available-for-sale financial assets 
are re-measured subsequently at fair value with gains and losses arising 
from changes in fair value recognised directly in equity and presented 
in the Statement of Comprehensive Income, until the asset is disposed  
of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss 
previously recognised in equity is included in the Group Income Statement for 
the period. Accrued interest or dividends arising on available-for-sale financial 
assets are recognised in the Group Income Statement.  
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 
Provisions 
Taxation 
Financial instruments  
(a) Trade receivables 
(b) Trade payables 
(c) Share capital 
(d) Cash and cash equivalents 
(e) Interest-bearing loans and other borrowings 
(f) Available-for-sale financial assets 
Financial Statements
128 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION CONTINUED 
 
S2. Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued  
At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether there is objective 
evidence that available-for-sale financial assets are impaired. If any such 
evidence exists, cumulative losses recognised in equity are removed from 
equity and recognised in the Group Income Statement. The cumulative loss 
removed from equity represents the difference between the acquisition cost 
and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset 
previously recognised in the Group Income Statement. 
Impairment losses recognised in the Group Income Statement for equity 
investments classified as available-for-sale are not subsequently reversed 
through the Income Statement. Impairment losses recognised in the Group 
Income Statement for debt instruments classified as available-for-sale 
are subsequently reversed if an increase in the fair value of the instrument 
can be objectively related to an event occurring after the recognition 
of the impairment loss.  
The Group holds investments in gilts which it designates as fair value through 
profit or loss. Investments are measured at fair value on initial recognition 
and are re-measured to fair value in each subsequent reporting period. 
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised 
in the Group Income Statement within interest income or interest expense. 
The Group routinely enters into sale and purchase transactions for physical 
delivery of gas, power and oil. A portion of these transactions take the form  
of contracts that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose 
of receipt or delivery of the physical commodity in accordance with the 
Group’s expected sale, purchase or usage requirements, and are not within 
the scope of IAS 39. 
Certain purchase and sales contracts for the physical delivery of gas, power 
and oil are within the scope of IAS 39 due to the fact that they net settle 
or contain written options. Such contracts are accounted for as derivatives 
under IAS 39 and are recognised in the Group Balance Sheet at fair value. 
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives that do not 
qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to the Group Income Statement 
for the year.  
The Group uses a range of derivatives for both trading and to hedge 
exposures to financial risks, such as interest rate, foreign exchange and energy 
price risks, arising in the normal course of business. The use of derivative 
financial instruments is governed by the Group’s policies which are approved 
by the Board of Directors. Further detail on the Group’s risk management 
policies is included within the Directors’ Report - Governance on pages 58 
to 60 and in note S3.  
The accounting treatment for derivatives is dependent on whether they 
are entered into for trading or hedging purposes. A derivative instrument 
is considered to be used for hedging purposes when it alters the risk profile 
of an underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Group’s risk 
management policies and is in accordance with established guidelines, 
which require the hedging relationship to be documented at its inception, 
ensure that the derivative is highly effective in achieving its objective, and 
require that its effectiveness can be reliably measured. The Group also holds 
derivatives which are not designated as hedges and are held for trading.  
All derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date on which the derivative 
is entered into and are re-measured to fair value at each reporting date. 
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities 
when the fair value is negative. Derivative assets and derivative liabilities are 
offset and presented on a net basis only when both a legal right of set-off 
exists and the intention to net settle the derivative contracts is present.  
The Group enters into certain energy derivative contracts covering periods 
for which observable market data does not exist. The fair value of such 
derivatives is estimated by reference in part to published price quotations 
from active markets, to the extent that such observable market data exists, 
and in part by using valuation techniques, whose inputs include data which 
is not based on or derived from observable markets. Where the fair value at 
initial recognition for such contracts differs from the transaction price, a fair 
value gain or fair value loss will arise. This is referred to as a day-one gain 
or day-one loss. Such gains and losses are deferred and amortised to the 
Group Income Statement based on volumes purchased or delivered over 
the contractual period until such time observable market data becomes 
available. When observable market data becomes available, any remaining 
deferred day-one gains or losses are recognised within the Group Income 
Statement. Recognition of the gains or losses resulting from changes in fair 
value depends on the purpose for issuing or holding the derivative. For 
derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising 
from changes in fair value are taken directly to the Group Income Statement 
and are included within gross profit or interest income and interest expense. 
Gains and losses arising on derivatives entered into for speculative energy 
trading purposes are presented on a net basis within revenue. 
Embedded derivatives: derivatives embedded in other financial instruments 
or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks 
and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and 
the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with gains or losses reported 
in the Group Income Statement. The closely-related nature of embedded 
derivatives is reassessed when there is a change in the terms of the contract 
which significantly modifies the future cash flows under the contract. Where a 
contract contains one or more embedded derivatives, and providing that the 
embedded derivative significantly modifies the cash flows under the contract, 
the option to fair value the entire contract may be taken and the contract 
will be recognised at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the 
Group Income Statement.  
For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified either 
as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments 
in foreign operations. 
Fair value hedges: a derivative is classified as a fair value hedge when it 
hedges the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset 
or liability. Any gain or loss from re-measuring the hedging instrument 
to fair value is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement. Any 
gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted 
against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the Group 
Income Statement. The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the 
hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no 
longer qualifies for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation. 
Any adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged financial instrument 
for which the effective interest method is used is amortised to the Group 
Income Statement. Amortisation may begin as soon as an adjustment exists 
and shall begin no later than when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted for 
changes in its fair value attributable to the risk being hedged. 
Cash flow hedges: a derivative is classified as a cash flow hedge when 
it hedges exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular 
risk either associated with a recognised asset, liability or a highly probable 
forecast transaction. The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument 
which is effective is recognised directly in equity while any ineffectiveness is 
recognised in the Group Income Statement. The gains or losses that are 
recognised directly in equity are transferred to the Group Income Statement in 
the same period in which the highly probable forecast transaction affects 
income, for example when the future sale of physical gas or physical power 
actually occurs. Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or 
liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying 
amount of the non-financial asset or liability on its recognition. Hedge 
accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, 
terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, no longer qualifies for 
hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation. At that point in time, 
any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity 
remains in equity until the highly probable forecast transaction occurs. If the 
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss 
recognised in equity is recognised in the Group Income Statement. 
Net investment hedges: hedges of net investments in foreign operations are 
accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the effective 
portion of the hedge is recognised in equity, any gain or loss on the ineffective 
portion of the hedge is recognised in the Group Income Statement. On 
(g) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss  
(h) Derivative financial instruments 
(i) Hedge accounting 
Financial Statements
129 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION CONTINUED 
 
S2. Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued 
disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any gains or losses 
recognised directly in equity is transferred to the Group Income Statement. 
The Group’s investments in Lake Acquisitions Limited (‘British Energy’) and 
NNB Holding Company Limited (‘Nuclear New Build’) are accounted for as 
associates. The following accounting policies are specific to the accounting for 
the nuclear activity of these associates. 
Front end fuel costs consist of the costs of procurement of uranium, 
conversion and enrichment services and fuel element fabrication. All costs 
are capitalised into inventory and charged to the Group Income Statement 
in proportion to the amount of fuel burnt. 
Advanced Gas-cooled Reactors (AGR) 
Spent fuel extracted from the reactors is sent for reprocessing and/or long-
term storage and eventual disposal of resulting waste products. Back end fuel 
costs comprise a loading related cost per tonne of uranium and a 
rebate/surcharge to this cost dependent on the out-turn market electricity 
price in the year and are capitalised into inventory and charged to the Group 
Income Statement in proportion to the amount of fuel burnt. 
Pressurised Water Reactor (PWR) 
Back end fuel costs are based on wet storage in station ponds followed 
by dry storage and subsequent direct disposal of fuel. Back end fuel costs 
are capitalised into inventory on loading and charged to the Group Income 
Statement in proportion to the amount of fuel burnt.  
The nuclear fleet are depreciated from the date of the Group acquiring 
its share of British Energy on a straight-line basis, with remaining depreciable 
periods currently of up to 23 years. 
Expenditure on major inspection and overhauls of production plant 
is depreciated over the period until the next outage which for AGR power 
stations is three years and for the PWR power station is 18 months. 
Under the arrangements in place with the Secretary of State, the NLF will fund, 
subject to certain exceptions, British Energy’s qualifying uncontracted nuclear 
liabilities and qualifying decommissioning costs. 
In part consideration for the assumption of these liabilities by the Secretary 
of State and the NLF, British Energy agreed to pay fixed decommissioning 
contributions each year and £150,000 (indexed to RPI) for every tonne 
of uranium in PWR fuel loaded into the Sizewell B reactor after the date 
of these arrangements. 
The Government indemnity is provided to indemnify any future shortfall on NLF 
funding of qualifying uncontracted nuclear liabilities (including PWR back end 
fuel services) and qualifying nuclear decommissioning costs such that 
the receivable equals the present value of the associated qualifying 
nuclear liabilities. 
Nuclear liabilities represent provision for British Energy’s liabilities in respect of 
the costs of waste management of spent fuel and nuclear decommissioning.  
Due to the nature of the nuclear fuel process there will be quantities of unburnt 
fuel in the reactors at station closure. The costs relating to this unburnt fuel 
(final core) are estimated by applying a long-term inflation index to the 
projected costs, which are then discounted. 
S3. Financial risk management  
The Group’s normal operating, investing and financing activities expose it to 
a variety of financial risks: market risk (including commodity price risk, 
currency risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk), credit risk and liquidity 
risk. The Group’s overall risk management process is designed to identify, 
manage and mitigate business risk, which includes, among others, financial 
risk. Further detail on the Group’s overall risk management process is included 
within the Directors’ Report – Governance on pages 58 to 60.  
Financial risk management is overseen by the GFRMC according to 
objectives, targets and policies set by the Board. Commodity price risk 
management is carried out in accordance with individual business unit 
Financial Risk Management Committees and their respective financial risk 
management policies, as approved by the GFRMC under delegated authority 
from the Board. Treasury risk management, including management of 
currency risk, interest rate risk, equity price risk and liquidity risk is carried out 
by a central Group Treasury function in accordance with the Group’s financing 
and treasury policy, as approved by the Board.  
The wholesale credit risks associated with commodity trading and treasury 
positions are managed in accordance with the Group’s credit risk policy and 
collateral risk policy. Downstream credit risk management is carried out in 
accordance with individual business unit credit policies.  
Market risk is the risk of loss that results from changes in market prices 
(commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices). 
The level of market risk to which the Group is exposed at a point in time varies 
depending on market conditions, expectations of future price or market rate 
movements and the composition of the Group’s physical asset and contract 
portfolios.  
The Group is exposed to commodity price risk in its upstream assets, energy 
procurement contracts, downstream and proprietary energy trading activities 
and uses specific limits to manage the exposure to commodity prices 
associated with the Group’s activities to an acceptable level. Volumetric limits 
are supported by Profit at Risk (PaR) and Value at Risk (VaR) metrics in the UK 
and in North America to measure the Group’s exposure to commodity price 
risk. Limits are also set on PaR and VaR measurements as a further control 
over exposure to market prices. 
(i) Energy procurement, upstream and downstream activities 
The Group’s energy procurement, upstream and downstream activities 
consist of equity gas and liquids production, equity power generation, bilateral 
procurement and sales contracts, market-traded purchase and sales 
contracts and derivative positions taken on with the intent of securing 
gas and power for the Group’s downstream customers in the UK 
and North America from a variety of sources at an optimal cost. 
The Group actively manages commodity price risk by optimising 
its asset and contract portfolios and making use of volume flexibility.  
The Group is exposed to commodity price risk in its energy procurement, 
upstream and downstream activities because the cost of procuring gas  
and electricity to serve its downstream customers varies with wholesale 
commodity prices. The risk is primarily that market prices for commodities 
will fluctuate between the time that sales prices are fixed or tariffs are set 
and the time at which the corresponding procurement cost is fixed, 
thereby potentially reducing expected margins or making sales unprofitable. 
The Group is also exposed to volumetric risk in the form of an uncertain 
consumption profile arising from a range of factors, including weather, 
energy consumption changes, customer attrition and economic climate. 
In order to manage the exposure to market prices associated with the Group’s 
energy procurement, upstream and downstream activities the Group uses 
a specific set of limits (including position, volumetric, VaR/PaR) established 
by the Executive Committee and governed by GFRMC oversight along 
with business unit market risk policies.  
Volumetric limits are supported by PaR and VaR metrics in the UK and in 
North America to measure the Group’s exposure to commodity price risk. 
Limits are also set on PaR and VaR measurements as a further control over 
exposure to market prices. PaR measures the estimated potential loss 
in a position or portfolio of positions associated with the movement 
of a commodity price for a given confidence level, over the remaining term 
of the position or contract portfolio. VaR measures the estimated potential loss 
for a given confidence level over a predetermined holding period. The standard 
Nuclear activity 
(a) Fuel costs – nuclear front end 
(b) Fuel costs – nuclear back end 
(c) Nuclear property, plant and equipment and depreciation 
(d) Nuclear Liabilities Fund (NLF) funding arrangements 
(e) NLF and nuclear liabilities receivables 
(f) Nuclear liabilities 
(g) Unburnt fuels at shutdown 
Market risk management 
(a) Commodity price risk management 
Financial Statements
130 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION CONTINUED 
 
S3. Financial risk management continued 
confidence level used is 95%. In addition, stress tests are regularly performed 
to evaluate the impact of substantial movements in commodity prices. 
The Group measures and manages the commodity price risk associated 
with the Group’s entire energy procurement, upstream and downstream 
portfolio. Only certain of the Group’s energy procurement, upstream and 
downstream contracts constitute financial instruments under IAS 39  
(note 24). 
As a result, while the Group manages the commodity price risk associated 
with both financial and non-financial energy procurement, upstream and 
downstream contracts, it is the notional value of energy contracts being 
carried at fair value that represents the exposure of the Group’s energy 
procurement, upstream and downstream activities to commodity price risk 
according to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures. This is because 
energy contracts that are financial instruments under IAS 39 are accounted 
for on a fair value basis and changes in fair value immediately impact profit 
or equity. Conversely, energy contracts that are not financial instruments under 
IAS 39 are accounted for as executory contracts and changes in fair value 
do not immediately impact profit or equity, and as such, are not exposed 
to commodity price risk as defined by IFRS 7. So whilst the PaR or VaR 
associated with energy procurement and downstream contracts outside 
the scope of IAS 39 is monitored for internal risk management purposes, 
only those energy contracts within the scope of IAS 39 are within the scope  
of the IFRS 7 disclosure requirements.  
(ii) Proprietary energy trading 
The Group’s proprietary energy trading activities consist of physical and 
financial commodity purchases and sales contracts taken on with the intent 
of benefiting in the short term from changes in market prices or differences 
between buying and selling prices. The Group conducts its trading activities 
in the over-the-counter market and through exchanges in the UK, North 
America and continental Europe. The Group is exposed to commodity price 
risk as a result of its proprietary energy trading activities because the value of 
its trading assets and liabilities will fluctuate with changes in market prices for 
commodities.  
The Group sets volumetric and VaR limits to manage the commodity price risk 
exposure associated with the Group’s proprietary energy trading activities. 
The VaR used measures the estimated potential loss for a 95% confidence 
level over a one-day holding period. The holding period used is based on 
market liquidity and the number of days the Group would expect it to take to 
close out a trading position. The VaR limits set for proprietary trading activities 
are relatively small compared to the Group’s overall operations and are less 
than £5 million. The carrying value of energy contracts used in proprietary 
energy trading activities at 31 December 2012 is disclosed in note 19. 
As with any modelled risk measure, there are certain limitations that arise from 
the assumptions used in the VaR analysis. VaR assumes that the future will 
behave like the past and that the Group’s trading positions can be unwound 
or hedged within the predetermined holding period. Furthermore, the use 
of a 95% confidence level, by definition, does not take into account changes 
in value that might occur beyond this confidence level.  
The Group is exposed to currency risk on foreign currency denominated 
forecast transactions, firm commitments, monetary assets and liabilities 
(transactional exposure) and on its net investments in foreign operations 
(translational exposure).  
(i) Transactional currency risk 
The Group is exposed to transactional currency risk on transactions 
denominated in currencies other than the underlying functional currency 
of the commercial operation transacting. The Group’s primary functional 
currencies are pounds sterling in the UK, Canadian dollars in Canada, US 
dollars in the US, Norwegian kroner in Norway and euros in the Netherlands. 
The risk is that the functional currency value of cash flows will vary as a result 
of movements in exchange rates. Transactional exposure arises from the 
Group’s energy procurement activities in the UK and in Canada, where a 
proportion of transactions are denominated in euros or US dollars and on 
certain capital commitments denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, 
in order to optimise the cost of funding, the Group has, in certain cases, 
issued foreign currency denominated debt, primarily in US dollars, 
New Zealand dollars, euros or Japanese yen. 
(ii) Translational currency risk 
The Group is exposed to translational currency risk as a result of its net 
investments in North America and Europe. The risk is that the pounds sterling 
value of the net assets of foreign operations will decrease with changes in 
foreign exchange rates. The Group’s policy is to protect the pounds sterling 
book value of its net investments in foreign operations where possible, subject 
to certain parameters monitored by the GFRMC, by holding foreign currency 
debt, entering into foreign currency derivatives, or a mixture of both.  
The Group measures and manages the currency risk associated with all 
transactional and translational exposures. In contrast, IFRS 7 only requires 
disclosure of currency risk arising on financial instruments denominated 
in a currency other than the functional currency of the commercial operation 
transacting. As a result, for the purposes of IFRS 7, currency risk excludes 
the Group’s net investments in North America and Europe as well as foreign 
currency denominated forecast transactions and firm commitments. 
A sensitivity analysis that is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Group’s 
financial position and performance to changes in the fair value or future cash 
flows of foreign currency denominated financial instruments as a result of 
changes in foreign exchange rates is provided in note 25. 
In the normal course of business the Group borrows to finance its operations. 
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk because the fair value of fixed rate 
borrowings and the cash flows associated with floating rate borrowings will 
fluctuate with changes in interest rates. The Group’s policy is to manage 
the interest rate risk on long-term borrowings by ensuring the exposure 
to floating interest rates remains within a 30% to 70% range, including 
the impact of interest rate derivatives. A sensitivity analysis that is intended 
to illustrate the sensitivity of the Group’s financial position and performance 
to changes in interest rates is provided in note 25.  
The Group is exposed to equity price risk because certain available-for-sale 
financial assets, held by the Law Debenture Trust on behalf of the Company 
as security in respect of the Centrica Unfunded Pension Scheme defined 
benefit section, are linked to equity indices (note 29). Investments in equity 
indices are inherently exposed to less risk than individual equity investments 
because they represent a naturally diverse portfolio. Note 29 details 
the Group’s other retirement benefit assets and liabilities. 
IFRS 7 requires disclosure of a sensitivity analysis that is intended to illustrate 
the sensitivity of the Group’s financial position and performance to changes 
in market variables (commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and interest 
rates) as a result of changes in the fair value or cash flows associated with 
the Group’s financial instruments. The sensitivity analysis provided discloses 
the effect on profit or loss and equity at 31 December 2012 assuming that 
a reasonably possible change in the relevant risk variable had occurred 
at 31 December 2012 and been applied to the risk exposures in existence 
at that date to show the effects of reasonably possible changes in price 
on profit or loss and equity to the next annual reporting date. Reasonably 
possible changes in market variables used in the sensitivity analysis are based 
on implied volatilities, where available, or historical data for energy prices 
and foreign exchange rates. Reasonably possible changes in interest rates 
are based on management judgement and historical experience. 
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared based on 31 December 2012 
balances and on the basis that the balances, the ratio of fixed to floating rates 
of debt and derivatives, the proportion of energy contracts that are financial 
instruments, the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies 
and the hedge designations in place at 31 December 2012 are all constant. 
Excluded from this analysis are all non-financial assets and liabilities and 
energy contracts that are not financial instruments under IAS 39. The sensitivity 
to foreign exchange rates relates only to monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the 
commercial operation transacting, and excludes the translation of the net 
assets of foreign operations to pounds sterling, but includes the corresponding 
impact of financial instruments used in net investment hedges. 
(b) Currency risk management 
(c) Interest rate risk management 
(d) Equity price risk management 
(e) Sensitivity analysis 
Financial Statements
131 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION CONTINUED 
 
S3. Financial risk management continued 
The sensitivity analysis provided is hypothetical only and should be used with 
caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily indicative of the actual 
impacts that would be experienced because the Group’s actual exposure 
to market rates is changing constantly as the Group’s portfolio of commodity, 
debt and foreign currency contracts changes. Changes in fair values or cash 
flows based on a variation in a market variable cannot be extrapolated 
because the relationship between the change in market variable and 
the change in fair value or cash flows may not be linear. In addition, the effect 
of a change in a particular market variable on fair values or cash flows 
is calculated without considering interrelationships between the various market 
rates or mitigating actions that would be taken by the Group. The sensitivity 
analysis provided in note 25 excludes the impact of proprietary energy trading 
assets and liabilities because the VaR associated with the Group’s proprietary 
energy trading activities is less than £5 million. 
Credit risk is the risk of loss associated with a counterparty’s inability or failure 
to discharge its obligations under a contract. The Group is exposed to credit 
risk in its treasury, trading, energy procurement and downstream activities. 
The Group continues to take steps to tighten downstream credit policies, 
including the tightening of credit scores in customer management processes, 
whilst continuing to manage credit risk in accordance with financial risk 
management processes.  
Note 25 provides further detail of the Group’s exposure to credit risk on its 
financial assets. 
Wholesale counterparty credit exposures are monitored by individual 
counterparty and by category of credit rating, and are subject to approved 
limits. The majority of significant exposures are with counterparties rated A–/A3 
or better. The Group uses master netting agreements to reduce credit risk and 
net settles payments with counterparties where net settlement provisions exist. 
In addition, the Group employs a variety of other methods to mitigate credit 
risk: margining, various forms of bank and parent company guarantees and 
letters of credit. 100% of the Group’s credit risk associated with its treasury, 
trading and energy procurement activities is with counterparties in related 
energy industries or with financial institutions.  
IFRS 7 requires disclosure of information about the exposure to credit risk 
arising from financial instruments only. Only certain of the Group’s energy 
procurement contracts constitute financial instruments under IAS 39 (note 24). 
As a result, whilst the Group manages the credit risk associated with both 
financial and non-financial energy procurement contracts, it is the carrying 
value of financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 (note 24) that represents 
the maximum exposure to credit risk in accordance with IFRS 7. 
In the case of business customers, credit risk is managed by checking a 
company’s creditworthiness and financial strength both before commencing 
trade and during the business relationship. For residential customers, 
creditworthiness is ascertained normally before commencing trade to 
determine the payment mechanism required to reduce credit risk to an 
acceptable level. Certain customers will only be accepted on a prepayment 
basis or with a security deposit. In some cases, an ageing of receivables is 
monitored and used to manage the exposure to credit risk associated with 
both business and residential customers. In other cases, credit risk is 
monitored and managed by grouping customers according to method of 
payment or profile. 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its financial obligations 
as they fall due. The Group experiences significant movements in its liquidity 
position due primarily to the seasonal nature of its business and margin cash 
arrangements associated with certain wholesale commodity contracts. 
To mitigate this risk the Group maintains significant committed facilities 
and holds cash on deposit. The Group’s liquidity position has remained 
strong throughout 2012. 
S4. Segmental analysis 
The measure of profit used by the Centrica Executive Committee is adjusted 
operating profit. Adjusted operating profit is operating profit before exceptional 
items and certain re-measurements (note 7), before additional depreciation 
resulting from any fair value uplifts on Strategic Investments (notes 2 and 11) 
and including the results from joint ventures and associates which are included 
before interest and tax. All transactions between segments are on an arm’s 
length basis. 
The Group’s operating segments are those used internally by management 
to run the business and make decisions. The Group’s operating segments 
are based on products and services provided in each geographical area. 
The operating segments are also the Group’s reportable segments. The types 
of products and services from which each reportable segment derives its 
revenues are: 
Segment Description 
British Gas:  
Residential energy 
supply 
The supply of gas and electricity to residential customers in 
the UK 
Residential services Installation, repair and maintenance of domestic central 
heating, plumbing and drains, gas appliances and kitchen 
appliances, including the provision of fixed-fee 
maintenance/breakdown service and insurance contracts 
in the UK 
Business energy 
supply and services 
The supply of gas and electricity and provision of energy-
related services to business customers in the UK 
Centrica Energy:  
Gas Production, processing, trading and optimisation of gas 
and oil and the development of new fields to grow reserves 
Power Generation, trading and optimisation of power from 
thermal, nuclear and wind sources 
Centrica Storage Gas storage in the UK  
Direct Energy:  
Residential energy 
supply 
The supply of gas and electricity to residential customers in 
North America 
Business energy 
supply 
The supply of gas, electricity and energy management 
solutions to commercial and industrial customers in North 
America 
Residential and 
business services 
Installation and maintenance of Heating, Ventilation and Air 
Conditioning (HVAC) equipment, water heaters and the 
provision of breakdown services in North America 
Upstream and 
wholesale energy 
Gas and oil production, power generation and procurement 
and trading activities in the North American wholesale 
energy markets 
 
S5. Other equity 
During February 1997, BG plc (formerly British Gas plc) demerged certain 
businesses (grouped together under GB Gas Holdings Limited (GBGH)) to 
form Centrica plc. Upon demerger, the share capital of GBGH was transferred 
to Centrica plc and was recorded at the nominal value of shares issued to BG 
plc shareholders. In accordance with the Companies Act 1985, no premium 
was recorded on the shares issued. On consolidation, the difference between 
the nominal value of the Company’s shares issued and the amount of share 
capital and share premium of GBGH at the date of demerger was credited 
to a merger reserve. 
In accordance with the Companies Act 1985, the Company transferred to the 
capital redemption reserve an amount equal to the nominal value of shares 
repurchased and subsequently cancelled (£16 million).  
During 2005, the revaluation of the Group’s existing interest in Centrica SHB 
Limited to fair value, following the acquisition by the Group of the remaining 
40% stake in the company, was recorded as a revaluation reserve adjustment. 
The remainder of the revaluation reserve relates to a 2009 revaluation of  
Credit risk management 
(a) Treasury, trading and energy procurement activities 
(b) Downstream activities 
Liquidity risk management and going concern 
Merger reserve 
Capital redemption reserve 
Revaluation reserve 
  
  
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION CONTINUED 
 
S5. Other equity continued 
producing gas and oil assets located in Alberta, Canada, following the 
acquisition by the Group of additional interests.  
The own shares reserve reflects the cost of shares in the Company held 
in the Centrica employee share ownership trusts to meet the future 
requirements of the Group’s share based payment plans. 
The share-based payments reserve reflects the obligation to deliver shares to 
employees under the Group’s share schemes in return for services provided. 
S6. Pensions 
The Registered Pensions Schemes are subject to independent valuations at 
least every three years, on the basis of which the qualified actuary certifies the 
rate of employer contributions which, together with the specified contributions 
payable by the employees and proceeds from the schemes’ assets, are 
expected to be sufficient to fund the benefits payable under the schemes. 
The latest full actuarial valuations were carried out at the following dates: the 
Registered Pensions Schemes at 31 March 2012, the Centrica Unfunded 
Pension Scheme at 6 April 2012 and the Direct Energy Marketing Limited 
Pension Plan at 31 December 2011. These have been updated to 
31 December 2012 for the purposes of meeting the requirements of IAS 19. 
Investments have been valued for this purpose at market value. 
The Registered Pension Schemes are managed by trustee companies whose 
boards consist of both company-nominated and member-nominated 
directors. Each scheme holds units in the Centrica Combined Common 
Investment Fund (CCCIF), which holds the combined assets of the 
participating schemes. The method of allocation of units is set out in the Trust 
Deed of the CCCIF. The board of CCCIF Limited is comprised of nine 
directors; three independent directors, three directors appointed by Centrica 
plc (including the chairman) and one director appointed by each of the three 
participating schemes. Apart from the investment in the Scottish Limited 
Partnership described in note 29, no direct investments are made in securities 
issued by Centrica plc or any of its subsidiaries, property leased 
to or owned by Centrica plc or any of its subsidiaries, or securities of any fund 
manager or any of their associated companies.  
Under the terms of the Pensions Act 2004, Centrica plc and each trustee 
board must agree the funding rate for its defined benefit pension scheme 
and a recovery plan to fund any deficit against the scheme-specific statutory 
funding objective. This approach was first adopted for the triennial valuations 
completed at 31 March 2006 and was again reflected in the 31 March 2012 
valuations.  
S7. Share schemes 
The majority of the share-based payment charge arises from three schemes. 
More information is found in the Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 75. 
Deferred Matching Share Scheme (DMSS): 
 Applicable employees: Senior Executive Group. 
 Vesting period of four years, comprising bonus year and three-year performance 
period. 
 Participants must defer between 20% and 40% of annual pre-tax bonus into scheme 
and can elect to invest additional amounts of annual bonus up to a maximum of 50% 
of total potential bonus.  
 Deferred and investment shares will be matched with conditional shares, released 
upon achievement of performance target over three-year period. 
 Performance measured through Group and segment EP targets. 
 Shares are held in trust over the three-year period and cannot be withdrawn. 
 Leaving prior to vesting date will normally mean forfeiting right to shares, except for 
investment shares which will be returned. 
Long Term Incentive Scheme (LTIS): 
 Applicable employees: Senior management. 
 Vesting period of three years following grant date. 
 Grants after 2012 - number of shares calculated according to EPS, Group EP, TSR 
and non-financial KPI’s. 
 Grants before 2012 - number of shares calculated according to EPS growth and TSR.
 Shares released immediately following the end of the assessed performance period 
subject to continued employment at that date. 
Share Award Scheme (SAS): 
 Applicable employees: Middle management. 
 Shares vest subject to continued employment within the Group in two stages – half 
vests after two years, the other half after three years. 
 
S8. Fixed-fee service and insurance contracts 
Fixed-fee service contracts are entered into with home services customers in 
the UK and home and business services customers in North America. These 
contracts continue until cancelled by either party. 
Insurance contracts are entered into with home service customers in the UK 
by British Gas Insurance Limited (BGIL), a fully owned subsidiary of Centrica 
plc, an entity regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA). Product 
offerings include central heating, boiler and controls, plumbing and drains and 
electrical appliance insurance cover. These contracts are normally for periods 
of 12 months with the option of renewal. 
The contracts protect holders against the risk of breakdown, resulting in the 
transfer of an element of risk to BGIL. Benefits provided to customers vary in 
accordance with terms and conditions of the contracts entered into, however, 
generally include repair and/or replacement of the items affected. 
The risk and level of service required within these contracts is dependent upon 
the occurrence of uncertain future events, in particular the number of call-outs, 
the cost per call-out and the nature of the fault. Accordingly, the timing and 
amount of future cash outflows related to the contracts is uncertain. The key 
terms and conditions that affect future cash flows are as follows: 
 provision of labour and parts for repairs, dependent on the agreement and 
associated level of service; 
 one safety and maintenance inspection either annually or in every 
continuous two-year period, as set out in the agreement; 
 no limit to the number of call-outs to carry out repair work; and  
 caps on certain maintenance and repair costs.  
Revenue from these contracts is recognised with regard to the incidence of 
risk over the life of the contract, reflecting the seasonal propensity of claims to 
be made under the contracts and the benefits receivable by the customer, 
which span the life of the contract as a result of emergency maintenance being 
available throughout the contract term. Cost of sales relates directly to the 
engineer workforce employed by Centrica within home services, the cost of 
which is accounted for over a 12-month period with adjustments made to 
reflect the seasonality of workload over a given year. The costs of claims under 
the contracts will be the costs of the engineer workforce employed by Centrica 
within home services. These costs are accounted for over a 12-month period 
with adjustments made to reflect the seasonality of workload over a given year.  
Weather conditions and the seasonality of maintenance can affect the number 
of call-outs, the cost per call-out and the nature of the fault. BGIL’s obligations 
under the terms of the contracts are based on the number of breakdowns 
occurring within the contract period. BGIL actively manages the risk exposure 
of these uncertain events by undertaking the following risk mitigation activities:  
 an initial service visit is performed for central heating care and insurance 
cover. If, at the initial visit, faults that cannot be rectified are identified, the 
contract will be cancelled and no further cover provided; 
 an annual or biennial safety and maintenance inspection is performed to 
ensure all issues are identified prior to them developing into significant 
maintenance or breakdown issues; and  
 caps on certain maintenance and repair work are incorporated into the 
contracts to limit liability in areas considered to be higher risk in terms of 
prevalence and cost to repair.
Own shares reserve 
Share-based payments reserve 
Pension schemes 
Governance 
Financial Statements
132 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION CONTINUED 
 
S5. Other equity continued 
producing gas and oil assets located in Alberta, Canada, following the 
acquisition by the Group of additional interests.  
The own shares reserve reflects the cost of shares in the Company held 
in the Centrica employee share ownership trusts to meet the future 
requirements of the Group’s share based payment plans. 
The share-based payments reserve reflects the obligation to deliver shares to 
employees under the Group’s share schemes in return for services provided. 
S6. Pensions 
The Registered Pensions Schemes are subject to independent valuations at 
least every three years, on the basis of which the qualified actuary certifies the 
rate of employer contributions which, together with the specified contributions 
payable by the employees and proceeds from the schemes’ assets, are 
expected to be sufficient to fund the benefits payable under the schemes. 
The latest full actuarial valuations were carried out at the following dates: the 
Registered Pensions Schemes at 31 March 2012, the Centrica Unfunded 
Pension Scheme at 6 April 2012 and the Direct Energy Marketing Limited 
Pension Plan at 31 December 2011. These have been updated to 
31 December 2012 for the purposes of meeting the requirements of IAS 19. 
Investments have been valued for this purpose at market value. 
The Registered Pension Schemes are managed by trustee companies whose 
boards consist of both company-nominated and member-nominated 
directors. Each scheme holds units in the Centrica Combined Common 
Investment Fund (CCCIF), which holds the combined assets of the 
participating schemes. The method of allocation of units is set out in the Trust 
Deed of the CCCIF. The board of CCCIF Limited is comprised of nine 
directors; three independent directors, three directors appointed by Centrica 
plc (including the chairman) and one director appointed by each of the three 
participating schemes. Apart from the investment in the Scottish Limited 
Partnership described in note 29, no direct investments are made in securities 
issued by Centrica plc or any of its subsidiaries, property leased 
to or owned by Centrica plc or any of its subsidiaries, or securities of any fund 
manager or any of their associated companies.  
Under the terms of the Pensions Act 2004, Centrica plc and each trustee 
board must agree the funding rate for its defined benefit pension scheme 
and a recovery plan to fund any deficit against the scheme-specific statutory 
funding objective. This approach was first adopted for the triennial valuations 
completed at 31 March 2006 and was again reflected in the 31 March 2012 
valuations.  
S7. Share schemes 
The majority of the share-based payment charge arises from three schemes. 
More information is found in the Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 75. 
Deferred Matching Share Scheme (DMSS): 
 Applicable employees: Senior Executive Group. 
 Vesting period of four years, comprising bonus year and three-year performance 
period. 
 Participants must defer between 20% and 40% of annual pre-tax bonus into scheme 
and can elect to invest additional amounts of annual bonus up to a maximum of 50% 
of total potential bonus.  
 Deferred and investment shares will be matched with conditional shares, released 
upon achievement of performance target over three-year period. 
 Performance measured through Group and segment EP targets. 
 Shares are held in trust over the three-year period and cannot be withdrawn. 
 Leaving prior to vesting date will normally mean forfeiting right to shares, except for 
investment shares which will be returned. 
Long Term Incentive Scheme (LTIS): 
 Applicable employees: Senior management. 
 Vesting period of three years following grant date. 
 Grants after 2012 - number of shares calculated according to EPS, Group EP, TSR 
and non-financial KPI’s. 
 Grants before 2012 - number of shares calculated according to EPS growth and TSR.
 Shares released immediately following the end of the assessed performance period 
subject to continued employment at that date. 
Share Award Scheme (SAS): 
 Applicable employees: Middle management. 
 Shares vest subject to continued employment within the Group in two stages – half 
vests after two years, the other half after three years. 
 
S8. Fixed-fee service and insurance contracts 
Fixed-fee service contracts are entered into with home services customers in 
the UK and home and business services customers in North America. These 
contracts continue until cancelled by either party. 
Insurance contracts are entered into with home service customers in the UK 
by British Gas Insurance Limited (BGIL), a fully owned subsidiary of Centrica 
plc, an entity regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA). Product 
offerings include central heating, boiler and controls, plumbing and drains and 
electrical appliance insurance cover. These contracts are normally for periods 
of 12 months with the option of renewal. 
The contracts protect holders against the risk of breakdown, resulting in the 
transfer of an element of risk to BGIL. Benefits provided to customers vary in 
accordance with terms and conditions of the contracts entered into, however, 
generally include repair and/or replacement of the items affected. 
The risk and level of service required within these contracts is dependent upon 
the occurrence of uncertain future events, in particular the number of call-outs, 
the cost per call-out and the nature of the fault. Accordingly, the timing and 
amount of future cash outflows related to the contracts is uncertain. The key 
terms and conditions that affect future cash flows are as follows: 
 provision of labour and parts for repairs, dependent on the agreement and 
associated level of service; 
 one safety and maintenance inspection either annually or in every 
continuous two-year period, as set out in the agreement; 
 no limit to the number of call-outs to carry out repair work; and  
 caps on certain maintenance and repair costs.  
Revenue from these contracts is recognised with regard to the incidence of 
risk over the life of the contract, reflecting the seasonal propensity of claims to 
be made under the contracts and the benefits receivable by the customer, 
which span the life of the contract as a result of emergency maintenance being 
available throughout the contract term. Cost of sales relates directly to the 
engineer workforce employed by Centrica within home services, the cost of 
which is accounted for over a 12-month period with adjustments made to 
reflect the seasonality of workload over a given year. The costs of claims under 
the contracts will be the costs of the engineer workforce employed by Centrica 
within home services. These costs are accounted for over a 12-month period 
with adjustments made to reflect the seasonality of workload over a given year.  
Weather conditions and the seasonality of maintenance can affect the number 
of call-outs, the cost per call-out and the nature of the fault. BGIL’s obligations 
under the terms of the contracts are based on the number of breakdowns 
occurring within the contract period. BGIL actively manages the risk exposure 
of these uncertain events by undertaking the following risk mitigation activities:  
 an initial service visit is performed for central heating care and insurance 
cover. If, at the initial visit, faults that cannot be rectified are identified, the 
contract will be cancelled and no further cover provided; 
 an annual or biennial safety and maintenance inspection is performed to 
ensure all issues are identified prior to them developing into significant 
maintenance or breakdown issues; and  
 caps on certain maintenance and repair work are incorporated into the 
contracts to limit liability in areas considered to be higher risk in terms of 
prevalence and cost to repair.
Own shares reserve 
Share-based payments reserve 
Pension schemes 
Governance 
Financial Statements
133 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION CONTINUED 
 
S9. Principal undertakings
 
All principal undertakings (including joint ventures and associates) listed below are held indirectly by Centrica plc. The principal undertakings shown here is a list 
of those companies which in the Directors’ opinion principally affect the figures shown in the Group Financial Statements. A full list of related undertakings is 
included in Centrica plc’s Annual Return submitted to the Registrar of Companies. 
31 December 2012 
Country of
incorporation/formation Principal activity 
Subsidiary undertakings 
(i)
 
  
British Gas Trading Limited England Energy supply 
British Gas New Heating Limited England Electrical and gas installations 
British Gas Services Limited England Home services 
British Gas Insurance Limited England Insurance provision 
Centrica Norway Limited, Centrica Resources Limited, Hydrocarbon Resources Limited England Gas and/or oil exploration and production 
Centrica Production Nederland B.V. Netherlands Gas and/or oil exploration and production 
Centrica North Sea Gas Limited, Centrica North Sea Oil Limited Scotland Gas and/or oil exploration and production 
Centrica Langage Limited, Humberland Limited England Power generation 
Centrica LNG Company Limited England LNG trading 
Centrica Energy Limited, Centrica Energy (Trading) Limited England Wholesale energy trading 
Centrica Storage Limited England Gas storage 
GB Gas Holdings Limited England Holding company 
Direct Energy Partnership Canada Energy supply 
CPL Retail Energy LP, Direct Energy Business LLC, Direct Energy LP, Direct Energy 
Source LLC 
(ii)
, Energetix Inc 
(iii)
, Energy America LLC, FCP Enterprises Inc, Gateway 
Energy Services Corporation, NYSEG Solutions Inc
 (iii)
, WTU Retail Energy LP 
USA Energy supply 
Direct Energy Marketing Limited Canada Energy supply and home services 
Direct Energy Services LLC USA Energy supply and home services 
Airtron Inc, Clockwork Inc, Direct Energy US Home Services Inc USA Home and/or commercial services 
Home Warranty Holding Corporation
 (iii)
 USA Insurance provision 
Direct Energy Resources Partnership Canada Gas production 
Bastrop Energy Partners LP, Frontera Generation LP, Paris Generation LP USA Power generation 
Direct Energy Marketing Inc USA Wholesale energy trading 
Brae Canada Ltd
 (iv)
 Canada Holding company 
 
31 December 2012 
Country of
incorporation/formation 
Percentage  
holding in ordinary  
shares and net assets Principal activity 
Joint ventures and associates 
(v)
 
   
Celtic Array Limited (‘Round 3’) England 50 Wind farm development 
GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited England 50 Power generation 
Lake Acquisitions Limited (‘British Energy’), NNB Holding Company Limited 
(‘Nuclear New Build’) 
England 20 Holding company 
Lincs Wind Farm Limited Scotland 50 Power generation 
 
(i) Centrica holds 100% of the ordinary shares and net assets of all subsidiary undertakings in this list. 
(ii) Previously called Vectren Retail LLC. 
(iii) Acquired in 2012. 
(iv) Brae Canada Ltd has a branch registered in England. 
(v) Further information on the principal joint ventures and associate investments held by the Group are disclosed in Note 16. 
 
The companies incorporated in England and Scotland principally operate in the UK. The companies incorporated in the USA, Canada and the Netherlands 
principally operate within North America and the Netherlands respectively.
Financial Statements
134 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF 
CENTRICA PLC 
 
We have audited the parent Company Financial Statements of Centrica plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise 
the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable 
law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibility Statement set out on page 60 the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the parent Company Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit 
and express an opinion on the parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’ s Ethical Standards for Auditors.  
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’ s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our 
prior consent in writing. 
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent Company’ s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the Financial 
Statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report. 
Opinion on Financial Statements 
In our opinion the parent Company Financial Statements:  
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’ s affairs as at 31 December 2012; 
 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and  
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.  
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion:  
 the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and  
 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the parent Company Financial Statements are prepared is 
consistent with the parent Company Financial Statements. 
Matter on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:  
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or  
 the parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or  
 certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or  
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of Centrica plc for the year ended 31 December 2012. 
 
 
Charles Bowman 
Senior Statutory Auditor 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
27 February 2013 
 
Financial Statements
135 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
CO
 
31 Dec
 
 
Fixed
Tangi
Invest
 
Curre
Debto
Curre
Cash 
 
Cred
Borro
Other
 
Net c
Total
Cred
Borro
Other
Provis
 
Net a
Define
Define
Net a
Capi
Share
Share
Capit
Profit 
Shar
 
(i) Se
 
The F
and w
Sam
 
The n
 
OMPAN
ember 
d assets 
ble assets 
tments 
ent assets 
ors  
ent asset investm
at bank and in
ditors (amoun
owings 
r creditors 
current asset
l assets less 
ditors (amoun
owings 
r creditors 
sions for liabilitie
assets exclud
ed benefit pens
ed benefit pens
assets 
tal and reserv
e capital 
e premium  
al redemption r
and loss accou
reholders’ fun
ee note I and note 
Financial Statem
were signed on 
m Laidlaw 
notes on pages
Y BALA
ments 
n hand 
nts falling due
ts 
current liabil
nts falling due
es 
ding pension 
sion assets 
sion liabilities 
ves – equity i
reserve 
unt 
nds 
X. 
ments on pages
its behalf by: 
 
s 137 to 142 for
ANCE S
e within one y
ities 
e after more t
assets/(liabil
interests 
s 136 to 142 w
Nick Luf
rm part of these
SHEET
year) 
than one year
lities) 
were approved a
ff 
e Financial Stat
r) 
and authorised 
tements, along 
for issue by the
with note 26 to
Notes
V
V
V
V
V
e Board of Dire
o the Group Fin
s  
201
£
 
III 9
IV 2,43
 2,53
 
V 11,89
VI 19
 47
 12,56
 
VII (468
VIII (6,605
 (7,07
 5,49
 8,02
 
VII (4,589
VIII (66
IX  (16
 (4,67
 3,35
X 
X (3
 3,32
 
XI 32
XI 92
XI 1
XI 2,06
XI 3,32
ectors on 27 Fe
nancial Stateme
12 
 
m 
2
(restated
 
6 
4 2,1
0 2,2
 
7 10,5
2 1
9 1
8 10,8
 
8) (4
5) (5,6
3) (6,1
5 4,7
5 6,9
 
9) (3,3
6) (
6) (
1) (3,4
4 3,4
9 
7) (
6 3,4
 
1 3
9 8
6 
0 2,2
6 3,4
ebruary 2013
ents. 
2011
d) (i) 
£m
64
54
218
522
81
64
867
454)
695)
49)
718
936
361)
(92)
(16)
469)
467
21
(34)
454
319
874
16
245
454
Chief f Executive Group Fin nance Directo or 
Financial Statements
136 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
I. Principal accounting policies of the Company 
The Company Financial Statements have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention as modified for the treatment of financial 
instruments in accordance with applicable UK Accounting Standards 
consistently applied and under the Companies Act 2006. The 
accounts have been prepared under the going concern basis. No 
profit and loss account is presented for the Company as permitted 
by the Companies Act 2006 (section 408). The Company profit after 
tax for the year was £625 million (2011 restated: £918 million). 
In line with the Group’ s accounting policy for derivative financial 
instruments, the Company has classified those derivatives held for 
the purpose of treasury management as current or non-current, 
based on expected settlement dates.  
The Group has a number of employee share schemes under which it 
makes equity-settled share-based payments as detailed in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 75 and in note S7. Equity-
settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date 
of grant (excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting 
conditions). The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed 
on a straight-line basis together with a corresponding increase in 
equity over the vesting period, based on the Group’ s estimate of the 
number of awards that will vest and adjusted for the effect of non-
market-based vesting conditions. The issue of share incentives by 
the Company to employees of its subsidiaries represents additional 
capital contributions. The addition to the Company’ s investment in 
subsidiary undertakings is reduced on the issue of share incentives 
as these are recharged to the subsidiaries.  
Fair value is measured using methods appropriate to each of the 
different schemes as follows: 
LTIS – EPS, EP and KPI awards Market value on the date of grant 
LTIS – TSR awards A Monte Carlo simulation to predict the total 
shareholder return performance 
SAS and DMSS  Market value on the date of grant  
 
The Company’ s functional and presentational currency is pounds 
sterling. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of 
exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into 
pounds sterling at closing rates of exchange. Exchange differences 
on monetary assets and liabilities and transactions are taken to the 
Profit and Loss Account, unless hedge accounting is applied 
whereby the differences are taken to reserves until the hedged item is 
realised. 
T angible fixed assets are held at cost, less accumulated depreciation 
and any provisions for impairment. Cost includes the original 
purchase price of the asset and the cost attributable to bringing it to 
its working condition for its intended use. T angible fixed assets are 
depreciated on a straight-line basis at rates sufficient to write off the 
cost, less estimated residual values, of individual assets over their 
estimated useful lives of up to ten years.  
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the Profit and Loss 
Account on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries’ shares are held at cost, less 
any provision for impairment as necessary. Fixed asset investments 
in the form of loans are held at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method, less any provision for impairment as necessary. 
Current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and net 
realisable value. 
The Company’ s employees participate in a number of the Group’ s 
defined benefit pension schemes. The total Group cost of providing 
benefits under defined benefit schemes is determined separately for 
each of the Group’ s schemes under the projected unit credit actuarial 
valuation method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in 
the period in which they occur. The key assumptions used for the 
actuarial valuation are based on the Group’ s best estimate of the 
variables that will determine the ultimate cost of providing post-
employment benefits, on which further detail is provided in notes 29 
and S6 to the Group Financial Statements. 
The Company’ s share of the total Group surplus or deficit at the end 
of the reporting period for each scheme is calculated in proportion to 
the Company’ s share of ordinary employer contributions in to that 
scheme during the year; ordinary employer contributions are 
determined by the pensionable pay of the Company’ s employees 
within the scheme and the cash contribution rates set by the scheme 
trustees. Current service cost is calculated with reference to the 
pensionable pay of the Company’ s employees. The Company’ s 
share of the total Group interest on scheme liabilities, expected return 
on scheme assets and actuarial gains or losses is calculated in 
proportion to ordinary employer contributions in the prior accounting 
period. Changes in the surplus or deficit arising as a result of the 
changes in the Company’ s share of total ordinary employer 
contributions are also treated as actuarial gains or losses. 
This is a change in accounting policy from prior years when the 
Company accounted for the schemes as if they were defined 
contribution schemes and the charge to the Profit and Loss Account 
was equal to the contributions payable to the schemes in the 
accounting period. The accounting policy has been amended 
because the Group has now identified a methodology for allocating 
the Company’ s share of the underlying assets and liabilities in the 
schemes on a consistent and reasonable basis.  
Comparative figures have been restated accordingly. The change in 
accounting policy increased profit after tax for the year by £6 million  
(2011: £19 million increase) and reduced opening reserves by £13 
million (2011: £41 million). 
Current tax, including UK corporation tax, is provided at amounts 
expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet 
date. 
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that 
have originated, but not reversed, at the balance sheet date where 
transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in 
the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred at the 
balance sheet date. Timing differences are differences between the 
Group’ s taxable profits and its results as stated in the Financial 
Statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax 
assessments in periods different from those in which they are 
recognised in the Financial Statements. 
A deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore 
recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be  
Basis of preparation 
Presentation of derivative financial instruments 
Employee share schemes 
Foreign currencies 
Tangible fixed assets 
Leases 
Investments 
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 
Taxation 
Financial Statements
137 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
I. Principal accounting policies of the Company 
continued 
regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable 
profits in the foreseeable future from which the reversal of the 
underlying timing differences can be deducted. 
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected 
to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected 
to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is 
measured on an undiscounted basis. 
The Company’ s accounting policies for financial instruments and 
borrowings are consistent with those of the Group, and are disclosed 
in note S2. The Company’ s financial risk management policies are 
consistent with those of the Group and are described in the 
Directors’ Report – Governance on pages 58 to 60 and in note S3 
to the Group Financial Statements. The Company is exempted 
by FRS 29 from providing detailed disclosures in respect of its 
financial instruments because the Company is included within 
the Group’ s consolidated Financial Statements and its financial 
instruments are incorporated into the disclosures in the notes 
to the Group Financial Statements prepared under IFRS 7 Financial 
Instruments disclosures. 
A provision is recognised when the Company has a legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable 
that an outflow of economic benefit will be required to settle the 
obligation. 
 
 
II. Directors and employees 
Details of Directors’ remuneration, share-based payments and pension entitlements in the Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 75 form part 
of these Financial Statements. Information on the main employee share-based payments is given in note S7. Details of the remuneration of 
key management personnel are given in note 34 to the Group Financial Statements. 
III. Tangible assets 
 2012  2011
 
Plant, equipment 
and vehicles 
£m  
Plant, equipment
and vehicles
£m
Cost   
1 January 152  111
Additions 56  44
Disposals (13)  (3)
31 December 195  152
Accumulated Depreciation    
1 January 88  73
Charge for the year 13  17
Disposals (2)  (2)
31 December 99  88
NBV at 31 December 96  64
 
IV. Investments 
 2012   2011
 
Loans (i)
£m
Investments 
in
subsidiaries’
shares (ii) 
£m
Total 
£m  
 
Loans 
£m 
Investments 
in
subsidiaries’
shares 
£m
Total
£m
Cost    
1 January – 2,154 2,154  – 2,132 2,132
Advances/additions 24733 280  – 22 22
31 December 247 2,187 2,434  – 2,154 2,154
 
(i) The loan is to Lincs Wind Farm Limited, joint venture of the Centrica plc Group. 
(ii) Additions include the net change in shares to be issued under employee share schemes in Group undertakings. Direct investments are held in Centrica Holdings 
Limited, Centrica Trading Limited and Centrica Beta Holdings Limited, all of which are incorporated in England. Principal undertakings are listed in note S9. 
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets. 
  
Financial instruments and borrowings 
Provisions 
Financial Statements
138 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
V. Debtors 
31 December 2012 2011
 
Due within
one year
£m
Due after more
than one year
£m
Total
£m
Due within 
 one year 
£m 
Due after more
than one year
£m
Total
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings
 (i)
 11,6678 11,675 10,304 810,312
Derivative financial instruments
 (ii)
 21173 194 8 175 183
Other debtors 6 – 6 3 – 3
Prepayments and other accrued income 14 8 22 13 11 24
 11,708 189 11,897 10,328 194 10,522
 
(i) The amounts receivable by the Company includes £3,292 million (2011: £3,819 million) that bears interest at a quarterly rate determined by Group Treasury and linked 
to the Group cost of funds. The quarterly rates ranged between 3.28 and 3.51% per annum during 2012 (2011: 1.71 and 2.71%). The other amounts receivable from 
Group undertakings are interest-free. All amounts receivable from Group undertakings are unsecured and repayable on demand. 
(ii) Derivative financial instruments comprise foreign currency derivatives held for trading of £8 million (2011: £3 million), interest rate derivatives held for hedging 
of £173 million (2011: £158 million) and foreign currency derivatives held for hedging of £13 million (2011: £22 million). The fair value of these derivatives is equivalent 
to the carrying value. 
 
VI. Current asset investments 
31 December 
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Short-term investments 192 181
 
£61 million (2011: £54 million) of investments were held by the Law Debenture Trust, on behalf of the Company, as security in respect of the 
Centrica Unfunded Pension Scheme defined benefit section (refer to note X). 
VII. Borrowings 
Amounts falling due 
 
 
31 December 2012  2011
 
Within one year
£m
After one year 
£m 
 Within one year
£m
After one year
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts 59 338  49 192
Commercial paper 82 –  114 –
Bonds 327 4,251  291 3,169
 468 4,589  454 3,361
 
The Company’ s financial instruments and related disclosures are included within the consolidated Group Financial Statements. As permitted 
by FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, further detailed disclosure in respect of the Company’ s financial instruments is not included. 
Disclosures in respect of the Group’ s borrowings are provided in note 12 to the Group Financial Statements. 
 
VIII. Other creditors 
31 December 2012  2011
 
Due within
one year
£m
Due after more  
than one year 
£m 
 Due within
one year
£m
Due after more 
than one year
£m
Trade creditors 37 –  44 –
Amounts owed to Group undertakings
 (i)
 6,454 –  5,582 –
Derivative financial instruments
 (ii)
 63 60  5 92
T axation and social security 2 –  4–
Accruals and deferred income 49 6  60 –
 6,605 66  5,695 92
 
(i) The amounts payable by the Company bear interest at a quarterly rate determined by Group Treasury and linked to the Group cost of funds. The quarterly rates ranged 
between 3.28 and 3.51% per annum during 2012 (2011: 1.71 and 2.71%). 
(ii) Derivative financial instruments comprise foreign currency derivatives held for trading of £10 million (2011: £5 million), interest rate derivatives held for trading of 
£85 million (2011: £80 million), interest rate derivatives held for hedging of £2 million (2011: £6 million) and foreign currency derivatives held for hedging of £26 million  
(2011: £6 million). The fair value of these derivatives is equivalent to the carrying value. 
 
IX. Provisions for liabilities 
 
1 January 2012
£m
Profit and loss 
charge
£m
Utilised in the year
£m
Reserves 
movement 
£m 
Transfers
£m
31 December 2012
£m
Other provisions 16 3 (2) – (1) 16
Deferred tax – 6 – (6) – –
 16 9 (2) (6) (1) 16
 
Financial Statements
139 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
IX. Provisions for liabilities continued 
Potential unrecognised deferred corporation tax assets amounted to £8 million (2011: £14 million), primarily relating to other timing 
differences. Other provisions principally represent estimated liabilities for contractual settlements, business restructuring and National 
Insurance in respect of employee share scheme liabilities. The National Insurance provision was based on a share price of 333.60 pence at  
31 December 2012 (2011: 289.30 pence). The majority of the amounts are expected to be utilised by 2015. 
X. Pensions 
The accounting policy in respect of defined benefit pension schemes has been changed in the year (see note I). Comparatives have been 
restated accordingly. 
The Company’ s employees participate in the following Group defined benefit pension schemes:  Centrica Pension Plan (CPP), Centrica 
Pension Scheme (CPS), Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme (CEPS) and Centrica Unfunded Pension Scheme. Its employees also 
participate in the defined contribution section of the Centrica Pension Scheme. Information on these schemes is provided in notes 29 and S6 
to the Group Financial Statements. 
The CPP , CPS and CEPS form the majority of the Group’ s and Company’ s defined benefit obligation and are referred to below 
and in the Group Financial Statements as the ‘Registered Pension Schemes’. 
During 2011, the Group announced changes to the terms of the final salary sections of the CEPS and the CPP. Further details are provided 
in note 29 to the Group Financial Statements. The total Group gains of £333 million have been apportioned to the Company in proportion 
to ordinary employer contributions in the prior accounting period. This results in a gain of £14 million in the Company’ s restated Profit and 
Loss Account. 
The accounting assumptions for the Registered Pension Schemes are provided in note 29 to the Group Financial Statements.  
 
2012  2011
 
Pension liabilities
£m
Pension assets 
 
£m 
 Pension liabilities  
(restated) 
£m 
Pension assets
(restated)
£m
1 January (283) 270  (288) 247
Items included in the Profit and Loss Account:    
Current service cost (3) –  (6) –
Exceptional gain on curtailment – –  14 –
Interest on scheme liabilities  (15) –  (17) –
Expected return on scheme assets – 16  – 16
Other movements:    
Actuarial gain/(loss) 30 (56)  7 5
Employer contributions – 14  – 9
Plan participants’ contributions (1) 1  (1) 1
Benefits paid from schemes 11 (11)  8 (8)
Transfers from provisions for liabilities (1) –  – –
31 December (262) 234  (283) 270
 
The net pension liability is presented in the Balance Sheet as: 
31 December 
 
 
2012 
 
£m 
 2011
(restated)
£m
Defined benefit pension assets 9  21
Defined benefit pension liabilities (37) (34)
Net liability recognised in the Company Balance Sheet (28)  (13)
  
(a) Summary of main schemes 
(b) Curtailment gains 
(c) Accounting assumptions 
(d) Movements in the year 
 
Financial Statements
140 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
X. Pensions continued 
Included within the pension scheme liabilities are £37 million (2011: £34 million) relating to the Centrica Unfunded Pension Scheme defined 
benefit section. 
Year ended 31 December 
 
 
2012
£m
2011
(restated)
£m
Actuarial (loss)/gain (actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets) (56) 5
Experience gains arising on the scheme liabilities 3 2
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities 27 5
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in Statement of T otal Recognised Gains and Losses, before adjustment for 
taxation (26) 12
Cumulative actuarial gains recognised in reserves at 1 January, before adjustment for taxation 12 –
Cumulative actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in reserves at 31 December, 
before adjustment for taxation (14) 12
 
Note 29 to the Group Financial Statements provides details of the triennial review carried out at 31 March 2012 in respect of the UK 
Registered Pension Schemes and the asset-backed contribution arrangement set up on 31 December 2012. During the year the Group 
made a £37 million deficit payment and a contribution of £84 million via the asset-backed contribution arrangement of which the Company’ s 
share was £2 million and £8 million respectively. Under FRS 17, Retirement Benefits, the Company’ s contribution and trustee interest in the 
Scottish Limited Partnership are recognised as scheme assets. 
The Company estimates that it will pay £4 million of employer contributions during 2013 at an average rate of 24% of pensionable pay. 
31 December 
 
 
2012
£m
2011
(restated)
£m
UK equities 322 400
Non-UK equities 1,522 1,311
Fixed-interest bonds 1,411 1,369
Inflation-linked assets 997 1,040
High-yield debt 324 292
Diversified asset funds 246 –
Property 204 163
Cash pending investment 12 36
Asset backed contribution assets 84 –
Group pension scheme assets
 (i)
 5,122 4,611
 
 
2012 2011
(restated)
Company share of the above (£m) 234 270
Expected long-term rate of return on assets per annum 5.6% 6.0%
 
(i) Total pension scheme assets for the UK pension schemes. 
 
The basis for determining the overall expected rate of return on assets is explained in note 29 to the Group Financial Statements. 
History of surplus/(deficit) 
2012
£m
2011
(restated)
£m
Plan assets 234 270
Defined benefit obligations (262) (283)
Pension deficit (28) (13)
Difference between expected and actual return on scheme assets (56) 5
Experience gains on scheme liabilities 3 2
  
(e) Analysis of the actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in reserves (note XI) 
(f) Pension scheme contributions 
(g) Pension scheme assets 
(h) Histories 
Financial Statements
141 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
 
XI. Shareholders’ funds and reserves 
 Profit and loss account  
 
Cash flow 
hedging 
reserve 
£m 
Own
shares
£m
Share-
based 
payments
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Profit
and loss
account
£m
Share
capital
£m 
Share 
premium 
£m 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m 
2012
Total
£m
2011
(restated) (i)
Total
£m
1 January as previously reported (26) (19) 90 2,213 2,258 319 874 16 3,467 3,310
Prior year adjustment – – – (13) (13) – – – (13) (41)
1 January
 (i)
 (26) (19) 90 2,200 2,245 319 874 16 3,454 3,269
Profit for the year
 (ii)
 – – – 625 625 – – – 625 918
Gains/(losses) on revaluation of cash flow 
hedges (net of taxation) 10 – – – 10 – – – 10 (27)
Dividends – – – (816) (816) – – – (816) (762)
Employee share schemes:    
Increase in own shares – (21) – – (21) – – – (21) (19)
Value of services provided – – 43 – 43 – – – 43 40
Exercise of awards – 21 (45) 12 (12) – – – (12) (15)
Gains on revaluation of available-for-sale 
securities (net of taxation) – – – 6 6 – – – 6 (1)
Actuarial (losses)/gains net of taxation – – – (20) (20) – – – (20) 9
Share issue – – – – – 2 55 – 57 42
Net movement for the financial year 10 – (2) (193) (185) 2 55 – (128) 185
31 December (16) (19) 88 2,007 2,060 321 929 16 3,326 3,454
 
(i) Restated for the change in accounting policy in respect of defined benefit pensions which reduced opening reserves as at 1 January 2011 by £41 million, increased 
profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2011 by £19 million and increased actuarial gains net of taxation for the year ended 31 December 2011 by £9 million. 
(ii) As permitted by section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006, no profit and loss account is presented.  
 
The Directors propose a final dividend of 11.78 pence per share (totalling £602 million) for the year ended 31 December 2012. 
Details of the dividends are given in note 10 to the Group Financial Statements. 
Details of the Company’ s share capital are provided in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and note 26 to the Group Financial 
Statements.  
XII. Commitments 
At 31 December 2012, the Company had commitments of £148 million (2011: £171 million) relating to contracts with outsource service 
providers. At 31 December 2012, lease commitments over land and buildings included non-cancellable operating lease payments due 
under one year of nil (2011: £1 million), within one to five years of £2 million (2011: £1 million) and guaranteed operating commitments 
of a subsidiary undertaking of £7 million (2011: £7 million).  
XIII. Related parties 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8 not to disclose transactions with its wholly owned subsidiaries. During the year 
the Company received interest and fees on its loan to Lincs Wind Farm Limited of £7 million (2011: nil). The loan balance outstanding 
is analysed in note IV .
Financial Statements
142 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012   
  
GAS AND LIQUIDS RESERVES (UNAUDITED) 
 
The Group’ s estimates of reserves of gas and liquids are reviewed as part of the half year and full year reporting process and updated 
accordingly. A number of factors affect the volumes of gas and liquids reserves, including the available reservoir data, commodity prices 
and future costs. Due to the inherent uncertainties and the limited nature of reservoir data, estimates of reserves are subject to change 
as additional information becomes available.  
The Group discloses 2P gas and liquids reserves, representing the central estimate of future hydrocarbon recovery. Reserves for Centrica-
operated fields are estimated by in-house technical teams composed of geoscientists and reservoir engineers. Reserves for non-operated 
fields are estimated by the operator, but are subject to internal review and challenge.  
As part of the internal control process related to reserves estimation, an assessment of the reserves, including the application 
of the reserves definitions is undertaken by an independent technical auditor. An annual reserves assessment has been carried out 
by DeGoyler and MacNaughton for the Group's global reserves. Reserves are estimated in accordance with a formal policy 
and procedure standard. 
The Group has estimated 2P gas and liquids reserves in Europe, North America and Trinidad and T obago.  
The principal fields in Centrica Energy are the Kvitebjorn, South Morecambe, Cygnus, Statfjord, Valemon, Chiswick, NCMA Poinsettia, York, 
Maria, Rhyl and Grove fields. The principal field in Centrica Storage is the Rough field. The European and Trinidad and T obago reserves 
estimates are consistent with the guidelines and definitions of the Society of Petroleum Engineers, the Society of Petroleum Evaluation 
Engineers and the World Petroleum Council’ s Petroleum Resources Management System using accepted principles.  
The principal fields in Direct Energy are the Foothills, Medicine Hat, Carrot Creek and Central Alberta fields located in the province of Alberta, 
Canada. The Direct Energy reserves estimates have been evaluated in accordance with the Canadian Oil and Gas Evaluation Handbook 
(COGEH) reserves definitions and are consistent with the guidelines and definitions of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and the World 
Petroleum Council.  
Estimated net 2P reserves of gas (billion cubic feet) Europe
Trinidad
and Tobago 
(iii)
Centrica 
Energy 
Centrica 
Storage 
Direct
Energy Total
1 January 2012 1,858 161 2,019 182 603 2,804
Revisions of previous estimates (73) (2) (75) – (10) (85)
Purchases/(disposals) of reserves in place 
(i)
 632– 632 – 37 669
Extensions, discoveries and other additions
 (ii)
 39– 39 – 5 44
Production
 (iv)
 (220)(19) (239) – (54) (293)
31 December 2012 2,236 140 2,376 182 581 3,139
 
Estimated net 2P reserves of liquids (million barrels) 
Europe
Trinidad
and Tobago 
(iii)
Centrica 
Energy 
Centrica 
Storage 
Direct
Energy Total
1 January 2012 73 – 73 – 8 81
Revisions of previous estimates 6 – 6 – 2 8
Purchases/(disposals) of reserves in place
 (i)
 55– 55 – 2 57
Extensions, discoveries and other additions
 (ii)
 10– 10 – – 10
Production
 (iv)
 (15)– (15) – (1) (16)
31 December 2012 129 – 129 – 11 140
 
Estimated net 2P reserves (million barrels of oil equivalent) Europe
Trinidad
and Tobago 
(iii)
Centrica 
Energy 
Centrica 
Storage 
Direct
Energy Total
31 December 2012
 (v)
 502 23 525 30 108 663
 
(i) Reflects the acquisition of additional equity in the Statfjord, Seymour, Armada, Skirne, Vale, Heimdal and Maria fields and the acquisition of equity in the Alba, 
Kvitebjorn, and Valemon fields in Centrica Energy and the Carrot Creek field in Direct Energy. 
(ii) Recognition of reserves associated with the Rhyl and Maria fields in Centrica Energy. 
(iii) The Trinidad and Tobago reserves are subject to a production sharing contract and accordingly have been stated on an entitlement basis (including tax barrels). 
(iv) Represents total gas and oil produced from the Group’s reserves. 
(v) Includes the total of estimated gas and liquid reserves at 31 December 2012 in million barrels of oil equivalent. 
 
Liquids reserves include oil, condensate and natural gas liquids. 
 
Financial Statements
143 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
 
FIVE YEAR RECORD (UNAUDITED) 
 
Year ended 31 December 
 
 
2008 (restated)
(i) (ii) (iii)
£m
2009
 
£m
2010 
 
£m 
2011
£m
2012
£m
Group revenue from continuing operations
 (i) (iii)
 20,872 21,963 22,423 22,824 23,942
Operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items 
and certain re-measurements:  
British Gas 712 1,011 1,216 1,005 1,093
Centrica Energy   881 525 771 1,023 1,230
Centrica Storage 195 168 169 75 89
Direct Energy 215 153 234 312 331
Adjusted operating profit – operating profit before exceptional items, 
certain re-measurements and impact of fair value uplifts from 
Strategic Investments 2,003 1,857 2,390 2,415 2,743
Share of joint ventures’ and associates’ interest and taxation (3) (11) (78) (102) (85)
Other (8) (5) – – –
Depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment 
(iv)
 – (27) (118) (105) (96)
 1,992 1,814 2,194 2,208 2,562
Operating (loss)/profit from discontinued operations:  
European operations 
(v)
 (52) 105 (2) 13 –
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements after taxation (1,048) (288) 726 (844) (77)
(Loss)/profit attributable to equity holders of the parent (137) 844 1,935 421 1,273
 
Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
(Loss)/earnings per ordinary share 
(ii)
 (3.3) 16.5 37.6 8.2 24.6
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share
 (ii) (vi) 
 21.7 21.7 25.2 25.8 27.1
Dividend per share declared in respect of the year
 (vii)
 12.2 12.8 14.3 15.4 16.4
 
31 December 
 
 
 
2008
(restated)
(ii) (viii) (ix)
£m
2009
(restated)
(ix)
£m
2010 
(restated) 
(ix) 
£m 
2011
(restated) 
(ix)
£m
2012
£m
Goodwill and other intangible assets 2,181 2,822 3,454 3,739 4,122
Other non-current assets 6,341 9,650 9,815 10,234 11,690
Net current assets/(liabilities) 2,163 330 283 (674) (352)
Non-current liabilities  (6,313) (8,675) (7,820) (7,699) (9,533)
Net assets of disposal groups held for sale – 128 87 – –
Net assets 4,372 4,255 5,819 5,600 5,927
Debt, net of cash, cash equivalents and securities:  
Net debt 
(ix)
 (389) (3,055) (3,195) (3,292) (4,047)
 
Year ended 31 December 
 
 
 
2008
 (restated)
(x)
£m
2009
(restated)
 (x)
£m
2010  
(restated) 
 (x) 
£m 
2011
£m
2012
£m
Cash flow from operating activities before exceptional payments
 (x)
 279 2,430 2,651 2,531 3,086
Payments relating to exceptional charges (74) (203) (223) (194) (266)
Net cash flow from investing activities
 (x)
 (1,030) (4,100) (1,584) (1,400) (2,558)
Cash flow before cash flow from financing activities (825) (1,873) 844 937 262
 
(i) Group revenue and cost of sales have been restated to report gas sales revenue of Centrica Storage net of cost of sales to better reflect the nature of the transactions. 
(ii) Restated to capitalise borrowing costs on the adoption of IAS 23 (Amendment) and to reflect the change in British Gas Services Limited’s revenue recognition policy. 
(iii) Restated to present the European Energy segment, with the exception of the Group’s operations in Germany, as a discontinued operation. The operating profit of the 
Group’s operations in Germany is reported within Centrica Energy. Also restated to include the operating profit of joint ventures and associates pre-interest and tax. 
(iv) The depreciation of British Energy fair value uplifts is shown net of taxation. 
(v) Discontinued in 2009. 
(vi) Adjusted earnings per ordinary share excludes depreciation of fair value uplifts to PP&E from Strategic Investments after taxation and certain re-measurements and 
exceptional items. 
(vii) Figures for 2008 have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of a Rights Issue undertaken during 2008. 
(viii) Restated to classify the non-current portions of derivative financial instruments from current assets and liabilities to non-current assets and liabilities. 
(ix) To align with management reporting, net debt has been restated to include mark-to-market values on derivative financial instruments used to hedge offsetting changes 
in borrowings. 
(x) The 2008-2010 comparatives have been restated for a change in presentation of emission certificate/allowance cash flows. 
Assets and liabilities 
Cash flows 
Financial Statements
144 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012  1 4 6 P e r f or ma n c e M e as u r e s
 1 4 6 Br itish G as
 1 4 8 C e n tr i c a E ne r g y
 1 4 8 C e n tr i c a S t or a g e
 1 49 D ir e ct E ne r g y
 1 5 0 C or por a t e R e s po n s i bi l it y
 152  Biographies of the Board of Directors  
and Senior Executives
 154 Other Statutory Information
Contents
145 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Appendix to the Directors’ Report Appendix to the Directors’ Report British Gas
FY 2012 FY 2011 Δ% H2 2012 H2 2011 Δ%
Total customer accounts (period end) (’000) 24,982 25,364 (1.5) 24,982 25,364 (1.5)
Total customer households (period end) (’000) 11,745 11,997 (2.1) 11,745 11,997 (2.1)
Joint product households (period end) (’000) 2,149 2,207 (2.6) 2,149 2,207 (2.6)
Gross revenue (£m) 13,857 12,403 12 6,650 6,049 10
Operating cost (excluding bad debt) (£m) 1,418 1,425 (0.5) 707 678 4.3
Operating profit (£m) 1,093 1,005 9 530 487 9
2011 gross revenue has been restated to reflect the reclassification of the British Gas New Energy business from Residential energy supply to Residential services and the reclassification of the British 
Gas Community Energy business from Residential Energy supply to Business energy supply and services.
Total customer accounts has been restated to exclude the Water Supply Pipe product, which has been incorporated into the Plumbing and Drains product.
Residential energy supply
FY 2012 FY 2011 Δ% H2 2012 H2 2011 Δ%
Customer accounts (period end)
Gas (’000) 8,905 9,139 (2.6) 8,905 9,139 (2.6)
Electricity (’000) 6,751 6,742 0.1 6,751 6,742 0.1
Total (’000) 15,656 15,881 (1.4) 15,656 15,881 (1.4)
Estimated market share (%)
Gas 39.9 41.2 (1.3) ppts 39.9 41.2 (1.3) ppts
Electricity 25.1 25.2 (0.1) ppts 25.1 25.2 (0.1) ppts
Average consumption
Gas (therms) 494 443 12 218 181 20
Electricity (kWh) 3,794 3,805 (0.3) 1,875 1,858 0.9
Total consumption
Gas (mmth) 4,460 4,099 9 1,945 1,669 17
Electricity (GWh) 25,683 25,602 0.3 12,696 12,600 0.8
Gross revenue (£m)
Gas 5,884 4,903 20 2,668 2,248 19
Electricity 3,237 3,027 7 1,646 1,580 4.2
Total 9,121 7,930 15 4,314 3,828 13
Transmission and metering costs (£m)
Gas 1,327 1,212 9 676 611 11
Electricity 915 782 17 477 401 19
Total 2,242 1,994 12 1,153 1,012 14
Total environmental costs (£m) 732 599 22 347 347 0.0
Total social costs (£m) 89 78 14 29 40 (28)
Operating profit (£m) 606 544 11 261 263 (0.8)
Operating margin (%) 6.6 6.9 (0.3) ppts 6.1 6.9 (0.8) ppts
2011 gross revenue and operating profit have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the British Gas New Energy business from Residential energy supply to Residential services and the 
reclassification of the British Gas Community Energy business from Residential energy supply to Business energy supply and services. 
The definition of total environmental costs has been restated and includes CERT, CESP, ROCs, carbon and FIT costs.
performance measures
Appendix to the Directors’ Report
146 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Residential services
FY 2012 FY 2011 Δ% H2 2012 H2 2011 Δ%
Customer product holdings (period end)
Central heating service contracts (’000) 4,663 4,696 (0.7) 4,663 4,696 (0.7)
Kitchen appliances care (no. of customers) (’000) 465 476 (2.3) 465 476 (2.3)
Plumbing and drains care (’000) 1,714 1,728 (0.8) 1,714 1,728 (0.8)
Home electrical care (’000) 1,444 1,462 (1.2) 1,444 1,462 (1.2)
Other contracts (’000) 116 122 (4.9) 116 122 (4.9)
Total holdings (’000) 8,402 8,484 (1.0) 8,402 8,484 (1.0)
Domestic central heating installations (’000) 94 105 (10) 50 51 (2.0)
Gross revenue (£m)
Central heating service contracts 839 807 4.0 435 411 6
Central heating installations 258 295 (13) 137 144 (4.9)
Other 577 542 6 291 278 5
Total 1,674 1,644 1.8 863 833 3.6
Operating profit (£m) 312 269 16 187 159 18
Operating margin (%) 18.6 16.4 2.2 ppts 21.7 19.1 2.6 ppts
2011 gross revenue has been restated to reflect the reclassification of the British Gas New Energy business from Residential energy supply to Residential services.
UK residential product holdings have been restated to exclude the Water Supply Pipe product, which has been incorporated into the Plumbing and Drains product.
Business energy supply and services
FY 2012 FY 2011 Δ% H2 2012 H2 2011 Δ%
Customer supply points (period end)
Gas (’000) 322 363 (11) 322 363 (11)
Electricity (’000) 602 636 (5) 602 636 (5)
Total (’000) 924 999 (8) 924 999 (8)
Average consumption
Gas (therms) 2,737 2,629 4.1 1,156 1,130 2.3
Electricity (kWh) 27,521 25,732 7 14,014 12,895 9
Total consumption
Gas (mmth) 940 986 (4.7) 399 413 (3.4)
Electricity (GWh) 17,110 16,731 2.3 8,581 8,320 3.1
Gross revenue (£m)
Gas 1,014 931 9 443 416 6
Electricity 1,841 1,713 7 929 866 7
Business services 207 185 12 101 106 (5)
Total 3,062 2,829 8 1,473 1,388 6
Transmission and metering costs (£m)
Gas 178 188 (5) 85 94 (10)
Electricity 409 372 10 212 188 13
Total 587 560 5 297 282 5
Operating profit (£m) 175 192 (9) 82 65 26
Operating margin (%) 5.7 6.8 (1.1) ppts 5.6 4.7 0.9 ppts 
2011 gross revenue and operating profit have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the British Gas Community Energy business from Residential energy supply to Business energy supply  
and services.
Appendix to the Directors’ Report
147 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix Centrica Energy
FY 2012 FY 2011 Δ% H2 2012 H2 2011 Δ%
Operating profit (£m) 1,230 1,023 20 548 492 11
Gas
Gas production volumes (mmth)
Morecambe 740 817 (9) 378 418 (10)
Other UK and Netherlands 883 933 (5) 403 419 (3.8)
Norway 557 164 240 381 82 365
Trinidad and Tobago 261 246 6 131 162 (19)
Total 2,441 2,160 13 1,293 1,081 20
Oil and condensate production volumes (mmboe) 
UK and Netherlands 7.4 7.8 (5) 3.5 3.5 0.0
Norway 8.9 4.7 89 5.9 2.1 181
Total 16.3 12.5 30 9.4 5.6 68
Total production volumes (mmboe) 56.7 48.2 18 31.0 23.2 34
Average gas sales price (p/therm) 54.7 51.6 6 56.7 52.5 8
Average oil and condensate sales price (£/boe) 62.8 57.2 10 63.4 56.9 11
DDA costs (£/boe) 9.8 10.1 (3.0) 10.1 9.5 6
Lifting costs (£/boe) 9.7 9.9 (2.0) 10.1 10.1 0.0
Total production and overhead costs (£m) 1,374 1,127 22 803 544 48
Exploration and appraisal costs (£m) 139 97 43 108 51 112
Operating profit (£m) 919 769 20 411 355 16
Estimated net proven and probable reserves 
of gas (BCF) 2,376 2,019 18 nm nm nm
Estimated net proven and probable reserves  
of liquids (mmboe) 129 73 77 nm nm nm
Total net proven and probable reserves (mmboe) 525 410 28 nm nm nm
Power
Power generated (GWh)
Gas-fired 8,952 14,973 (40) 4,046 7,542 (46)
Renewables 533 596 (11) 287 321 (11)
Nuclear 12,004 11,157 8 6,050 4,966 22
Total 21,489 26,726 (20) 10,383 12,829 (19)
Achieved Clean Spark Spread (£/MWh) 10.7 10.1 6 11.2 9.3 20
Achieved power price (including ROCs) 
(£/MWh) – renewables 105.7 111.2 (4.9) 111.3 124.7 (11)
Achieved power price (£/MWh) – nuclear 49.6 48.5 2.3 49.8 50.4 (1.2)
Operating profit (£m) 311 254 22 137 137 0.0
Centrica Storage
FY 2012 FY 2011 Δ% H2 2012 H2 2011 Δ%
Average SBU price (in period) (pence) 31.0 30.0 3.3 33.9 25.2 35
Gross revenue (£m)
Standard SBUs 141 136 3.7 77 58 33
Other 61 48 27 34 29 17
Total 202 184 10 111 87 28
Operating profit (£m) 89 75 19 53 36 47
performance measures continued
Appendix to the Directors’ Report
148 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Direct Energy FY 2012 FY 2011 Δ% H2 2012 H2 2011 Δ%
Total residential energy and services accounts  
(period end) (’000) 5,856 5,647 3.7 5,856 5,647 3.7
Gross revenue (£m) 6,015 6,117 (1.7) 3,096 3,021 2.5
Operating profit (£m) 331 312 6 165 138 20
Residential energy supply
Customer accounts (period end) (’000) 3,455 3,364 2.7 3,455 3,364 2.7
Gross revenue (£m) 2,357 2,416 (2.4) 1,147 1,126 1.9
Operating profit (£m) 156 161 (3.1) 55 56 (1.8)
Operating margin (%) 6.6 6.7 (0.1) ppts 4.8 5.0 (0.2) ppts
Business energy supply
Gas sales (mmth) 793 714 11 372 297 25
Electricity sales (GWh) 51,378 46,350 11 27,443 24,159 14
Gross revenue (£m) 2,690 2,748 (2.1) 1,394 1,372 1.6
Operating profit (£m) 129 110 17 69 52 33
Operating margin (%) 4.8 4.0 0.8 ppts 4.9 3.8 1.1 ppts
Residential and business services
Contract relationships (period end) (’000) 2,401 2,283 5 2,401 2,283 5
On demand and installation jobs (’000) 670 703 (5) 316 372 (15)
Gross revenue (£m) 532 520 2.3 279 271 3.0
Operating profit (£m) 33 28 18 22 19 16
Operating margin (%) 6.2 5.4 0.8 ppts 7.9 7.0 0.9 ppts
On demand and installation jobs has been restated to reflect management reporting.
Upstream and wholesale energy
Gas production volumes (mmth) 549 567 (3.2) 270 287 (6)
Oil and liquids production volumes (mmboe) 1.1 0.7 57 0.5 0.4 25
Total production volumes (mmboe) 10.1 10.0 1.0 4.9 5.1 (3.9)
Power generated (GWh) 6,336 5,247 21 3,016 2,924 3.1
Gross revenue (£m) 436 433 0.7 276 252 10
Operating profit (£m) 13 13 0.0 19 11 73
Estimated net proven and probable reserves of gas (BCF) 581 603 (3.6) nm nm nm
Estimated net proven and probable reserves  
of liquids (mmboe) 11 8 38 nm nm nm
Total net proven and probable reserves (mmboe) 108 109 (0.9) nm nm nm
Direct Energy with comparator year of 2011 restated to remove effect of foreign exchange movements
FY 2012 FY 2011 Δ% H2 2012 H2 2011 Δ%
Revenue (£m)
Residential energy supply 2,357 2,425 (2.8) 1,147 1,128 1.7
Business energy supply 2,690 2,782 (3.3) 1,394 1,378 1.2
Residential and business services 532 523 1.7 279 272 2.6
Upstream and wholesale energy 436 437 (0.2) 276 252 10
Direct Energy revenue 6,015 6,167 (2.5) 3,096 3,030 2.2
Operating profit (£m)
Residential energy supply 156 163 (4.3) 55 56 (1.8)
Business energy supply 129 111 16 69 52 33
Residential and business services 33 28 18 22 19 16
Upstream and wholesale energy 13 13 0.0 19 11 73
Direct Energy operating profit 331 315 5.0 165 138 20
2011 figures restated at 2012 weighted average exchange rate
Appendix to the Directors’ Report
149 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix Corporate Responsibility
Treating customers fairly
Metric Unit 
2012 
target
2012 
performance
2011 
performance What’s next
British Gas Net Promoter  
Score (NPS) 
See note 
(i)
  
for a definition 
of NPS
Achieve a 
score of  
+27 by end  
of 2012
+30
 (ii) 
(high 
performance 
range)
+26
 (iii) 
(high 
performance 
range)
To remain within the high 
performance range within 
each business
Direct Energy Net Promoter 
Score (NPS)
Achieve a 
score of  
+27 by end  
of 2012
+39
 (ii) 
(high 
performance 
range)
+28
 (iii) 
(high 
performance 
range)
Vulnerable households 
impacted by British Gas 
initiatives
Number Measure only 2.1 million
 (ii)
1.7 million
(iii)
Continue to support our most 
vulnerable customers through  
the British Gas Energy Trust and 
obligations such as the Warm 
Home Discount
(i)  NPS measures customers’ responses to the question ‘How likely would you be to recommend us (0–10 scale)?’ The score is calculated by the percentage of customers defined as promoters 
(scoring 9–10) minus the percentage defined as detractors (0–6).
(ii) Assured by Deloitte LLP for the 2012 Annual Report. See centrica.com/report2012/assurance to view Deloitte’s full assurance statement and the Basis of Reporting.
(iii)  Assured by Deloitte LLP for the 2011 Annual Report. See centrica.com/report2011/assurance to view Deloitte’s full assurance statement and the Basis of Reporting.
Achieving reductions in carbon emissions
Metric Unit
2012 
target
2012 
performance 
2011 
performance What’s next
Lifetime carbon savings driven 
by the Carbon Emissions 
Reduction Target (CERT)
Tonnes of CO2 
saved
16.3 million
 (i)
 
by end of 2012
15.0 million 14.6 million Whilst the CERT programme  
ended on 31 December 2012 we  
will continue to work towards our 
obligations in this area
Smart meter installations Number of 
meters 
installed
(cumulative 
since 2009)
1.1 million
cumulative by 
end of 2012
881,794
 (ii)
459,422
 (iii)
British Gas will continue to be  
the UK leader in smart meter 
installations
Carbon intensity of power 
generation
g CO2/kWh Reduce our  
UK power 
generation 
carbon 
intensity to 270 
by end of 2012
UK: 
159
 (iv)
Group wide: 
197
UK: 
199
 (v)(vi)
Group wide: 
220
 (v)
Reduce our Group power  
generation carbon intensity  
to 260 by end of 2020
Absolute carbon emissions 
(Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions as defined by the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol)
Tonnes CO2 
equivalent
Measure only 7.2 million 8.1 million
Internal carbon footprint 
(property, fleet and travel)
Tonnes CO2
equivalent
Reduce the 
carbon 
footprint of our 
core offices, 
company 
vehicles and 
travel by 20% 
by 2015
91,988  
a 2%  
reduction  
on 2011
94,092
 (iii)
 
a 5% 
reduction 
on 2010
Continue to work to our 2015 target
 
By the end of 2012 we had  
achieved a 21% reduction from  
2007 base year
(i)  All yearly CERT targets have been amended retrospectively to a consistent figure of 16.3 million tonnes of CO2 saved per year to enable a simple comparison between British Gas’ overall five year 
performance against the five year CERT obligation volume of 96.3 million tonnes of CO2.
(ii)  Assured by Deloitte LLP for the 2012 Annual Report. See centrica.com/report2012/assurance to view Deloitte’s full assurance statement and the Basis of Reporting. This figure represents 
cumulative smart meter installations for residential and business customers. Only data representing 514,482 smart meter installations was assured by Deloitte due to the historical nature of the data.
(iii) This is an updated figure to that reported previously, following subsequent validation carried out on data. 
(iv) 2012 data subject to final EU Emissions Trading System (ETS) verification.
(v) Restated due to verification by EU ETS.
(vi) Assured by Deloitte LLP for 2011. See centrica.com/responsibility to view Deloitte’s full assurance statement and the Basis of Reporting for 2011.
performance measures continued
Appendix to the Directors’ Report
150 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Safety 
Metric Unit 
2012 
target
2012
performance
2011
performance What’s next
Lost time injury frequency  
rate (LTIFR)
 (i)
Per 100,000 
hours worked
Reduce LTIFR to 
0.225 by end  
of 2012
0.20
 (ii)
0.25
 (iii)
We aim to reduce accident rates 
across all businesses, with increasing 
focus on the TRIR as a representative 
measure. At a Group level we aim to 
maintain, and if possible further 
improve, our LTIFR of 0.20
Total recordable injury rate 
(TRIR)
 (iv)
Per 100,000 
hours worked
Reduce TRIR to 
1.59 by end  
of 2012
1.42 1.66
 (iii)
Road safety incidents rate –  
low severity
Per 1 million 
km driven
Measure only 5.0 7.5
 (iii)
We aim to continue the reduction in 
road safety incidents through 
proactive driver safety programmes
Road safety – number of  
high severity incidents
Number Measure only 6 10
 (iii)
Fatalities Number Measure only 0 0
 (iii)
Significant process 
safety event
Number 0 0 
(ii)
2 We aim to continue to focus on the 
management of our major accident 
hazards. We track detailed leading 
metrics at an executive level, with  
the ultimate aim of zero significant 
process safety events
(i)  A lost time injury is defined as an incident arising out of Centrica’s operations which leads to an injury where the employee or contractor is not available to work for one day or more, excluding the 
day that the injury occurred.
(ii) Assured by Deloitte LLP for the 2012 Annual Report. See centrica.com/report2012/assurance to view Deloitte’s full assurance statement and the Basis of Reporting.
(iii)  Assured by Deloitte LLP for the 2011 Annual Report. See centrica.com/report2011/assurance to view Deloitte’s full assurance statement and the Basis of Reporting.
(iv) A recordable injury is an injury that requires more than first aid. This includes fatalities, lost time, restricted duty and medical aid.
Our people
Metric Unit 
2012 
target
2012
performance
2011 
performance What’s next
Diversity – female and male Percentage Promote diversity 
in leadership roles 
and recruitment
28.3 female
71.7 male
29.1 female 
70.9 male
Continue to promote diversity in 
leadership roles and recruitment
Retention Percentage Maintain the good 
levels of retention
89.7 89.5
 (i)
Encourage and maintain healthy 
retention levels
Absence Days per full 
time employee
Maintain and 
improve levels  
of absenteeism
8.2 7.3
 (ii)
Focus on driving down absence  
in British Gas
Employee engagement Mean score  
out of 6
4.91 4.72
 (iii)
n/a Implement action plans driven out  
of the 2012 engagement survey
(i) Assured by Deloitte LLP for the 2011 Annual Report. See centrica.com/report2011/assurance to view Deloitte’s full assurance statement and the Basis of Reporting.
(ii) Restated due to change in methodology for recording absence.
(iii) Assured by Deloitte LLP for the 2012 Annual Report. See centrica.com/report2012/assurance to view Deloitte’s full assurance statement and the Basis of Reporting. 
Responsible business practices
Metric Unit 
2012 
target
2012
performance
2011 
performance What’s next
Total community  
contributions
(i)
£ million Invest in local 
communities and 
relevant charitable 
organisations
233.6
(ii)
67.7 Make a positive contribution through 
the way we operate and by investing 
in, and engaging with, communities 
where we work in the UK, North 
America and other parts of the world
Total employee  
volunteering hours
(iii)
Number  
of hours
Support our 
employees in  
their volunteering 
efforts
43,623 81,969
(i)  Includes charitable donations calculated through the London Benchmarking Group methodology, combined with the cost of voluntary and mandatory programmes to support vulnerable 
customers in the UK.
(ii)  Comprising £224 million in mandatory and £343,000 in voluntary contributions for vulnerable customers in the UK, and £9.3 million in charitable contributions. This includes £5.5 million Group  
cash donations (2011: £1.8 million). The London Benchmarking Group methodology was applied for calculating our charitable contributions, with major investments in education and young people 
(£3.4 million), environment (£2.8 million), health (£1.1 million) and social welfare (£1.2 million). 
(iii) Includes volunteering hours during and outside of working hours.
Appendix to the Directors’ Report
151 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix board of directors and senior executives
Board of Directors
1. Sir Roger Carr 
Chairman (66) 
Sir Roger joined the Board as a Non-
Executive Director on 1 January 2001.  
He was appointed Chairman of the 
Board in May 2004 and is Chairman  
of the Nominations Committee. During 
2011, he was appointed president of  
the CBI and a member of the UK Prime 
Minister’s Business Advisory Group.  
He remains deputy chairman and senior 
independent director of the Court of the 
Bank of England. He is also a senior 
adviser to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and 
a trustee of the Landau Forte Charitable 
Trust. He has previously held a number 
of senior appointments including 
chairman of Mitchells & Butlers plc and 
Cadbury plc. He is a fellow of the Royal 
Society for the encouragement of the 
Arts, Manufacturers and Commerce  
and a visiting fellow to the Said Business 
School, Oxford. Throughout his career 
he has served on a number of external 
committees including the Higgs 
Committee on Corporate Governance  
and Business for New Europe. 
2. Sam Laidlaw 
Chief Executive (57) 
Sam joined Centrica as Chief Executive  
on 1 July 2006. He is Chairman of the 
Executive Committee and the Disclosure 
Committee. In January 2008, he was 
appointed a non-executive director of 
HSBC Holdings plc and in December 
2010 he was appointed as the lead 
non-executive director on the board of 
the Department for Transport. He was 
also a member of the UK Prime 
Minister’s Business Advisory Group. 
Previously he was executive vice 
president of the Chevron Corporation, 
chief executive officer at Enterprise Oil 
and president and chief operating officer 
at Amerada Hess. He is a trustee of the 
medical charity RAFT. 
3. Phil Bentley 
Managing Director, British Gas (54) 
Phil joined Centrica as Group Finance 
Director on 13 September 2000, a position 
he held until the end of February 2007 
when he was appointed Managing 
Director, British Gas. Phil was also 
Managing Director, Europe between  
July 2004 and September 2006. He will 
stand down from his role as Managing 
Director of British Gas and as a Director  
of Centrica plc on 30 June 2013. He was 
appointed as a non-executive director  
of IMI plc in October 2012 and will take  
up the position of chairman of their audit 
committee from May 2013.
4. Margherita Della Valle 
Non-Executive Director (47) 
Margherita joined the Board on 1 January 
2011 and is Deputy Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. She will become Chairman of 
the Audit Committee in July 2013. In 
October 2010 she was appointed group 
financial controller of Vodafone Group Plc, 
prior to which she was chief financial 
officer for the group’s European region 
from April 2007 to October 2010 and chief 
financial officer of Vodafone Italy from 2004 
to 2007. Previously she joined Omnitel 
Pronto Italia in Italy in 1994 and held 
various consumer marketing positions in 
business analytics and customer base 
management prior to moving to finance. 
Omnitel was acquired by Vodafone Group 
in 2000. 
5. Mary Francis CBE
Senior Independent Director (64)
Mary joined the Board on 22 June 2004 
and is Senior Independent Director, 
Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee and Deputy Chairman of the 
Nominations Committee. In October 2012 
she was appointed to the Board of Swiss 
Reinsurance Company Ltd and she has 
been proposed for appointment to the 
board of the Swiss Re Group, subject to 
election at their AGM in April 2013. She is  
a senior adviser to Chatham House and 
chair of governors of James Allen’s Girls’ 
School. She is a former non-executive 
director of Aviva plc, Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc, the Bank of England, 
Alliance & Leicester plc and St. Modwen 
Properties plc. She is a former director 
general of the Association of British 
Insurers, and was a senior civil servant in 
the Treasury and the Prime Minister’s Office. 
6. Mark Hanafin 
Managing Director, Centrica Energy (53)
Mark joined Centrica as Managing 
Director, Centrica Energy on 14 July 2008. 
He was appointed as a non-executive 
director of EDF Energy Nuclear Generation 
Group Limited in November 2009. 
Previously he spent 21 years with Royal 
Dutch Shell, most recently as CEO of Shell 
Energy North America in Houston. Prior  
to joining Shell, he worked for General 
Electric Company (GEC) having qualified 
as a chartered engineer. 
Appendix to the Directors’ Report
152 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 2 3 4 5 6 7 1
Board of Directors Senior Executives
7. Lesley Knox 
Non-Executive Director (59) 
Lesley joined the Board on 1 January 2012 
and is Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. She is a non-executive director 
of SABMiller Plc and is a trustee of the 
Grosvenor Estates and chairman of 
Grosvenor Group Limited. She was 
previously with British Linen Bank in 1997 , 
becoming governor in 1999, and was 
subsequently a founder director of British 
Linen Advisers from 1999 to 2003. She 
was previously senior non-executive 
director of Hays Plc and also spent  
 15 years with Kleinwort Benson from 1981 
to 1996, first in corporate finance and then 
as chief executive of the institutional asset 
management business. 
8. Nick Luff 
Group Finance Director (45) 
Nick joined Centrica as Group Finance 
Director on 1 March 2007. He was 
previously chief financial officer of The 
Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation 
Company (P&O) and has held a number of 
other senior financial roles at P&O, having 
qualified as a chartered accountant at 
KPMG. Until December 2010 he was a 
non-executive director of QinetiQ Group plc. 
9. Andrew Mackenzie 
Non-Executive Director (56) 
Andrew joined the Board on 1 September 
2005. Andrew has been appointed as CEO 
of BHP Billiton with effect from 10 May 
2013 and he will resign as a Non-Executive 
Director of Centrica at that date. He will 
not, therefore, seek re-election as  
a Director at the Annual General Meeting 
to be held on 13 May 2013.
10. Ian Meakins 
Non-Executive Director (56) 
Ian joined the Board on 1 October 2010.  
In July 2009 he joined the Wolseley 
Group as chief executive. He was 
previously chief executive of Travelex 
Holdings Limited and for two years prior 
to that he was CEO of Alliance Unichem 
plc until their merger with Boots in 2006. 
He spent 12 years with Diageo including 
four years as president European major 
markets and global supply. His early 
career was with Procter and Gamble. 
11. Paul Rayner 
Non-Executive Director (58) 
Paul joined the Board on 22 September 
2004 and is Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. He will step down from the 
Board on 31 December 2013 and as 
Chairman of the Audit Committee on  
1 July 2013. In 2008, he was appointed a 
non-executive director of Qantas Airways 
Limited and Boral Limited. In May 2011 
he was also appointed as a non-
executive director of Treasury Wine 
Estates Limited in Australia and was 
appointed chairman in September 2012. 
He was finance director of British 
American Tobacco plc from 2002 until 
April 2008. In 1991 he joined Rothmans 
Holdings Limited in Australia, holding 
senior executive appointments, and 
became chief operating officer of British 
American Tobacco Australasia Limited  
in September 1999. 
12. Chris Weston 
Managing Director, North America (49)
Chris was appointed to the Board on  
1 July 2009 upon his appointment as 
Managing Director, North America. He 
was previously Managing Director, British 
Gas Services from June 2005. Prior to 
this, he was Managing Director, British 
Gas Business from January 2002. He 
joined Centrica in November 2001, 
following the acquisition of One Tel where 
he was the Managing Director of Europe. 
Previously, he worked for Cable & 
Wireless and also spent seven years in 
the army with the Royal Artillery. 
board of directors and senior 
executives photographs on  
pages 6 and 7
13. Grant Dawson 
General Counsel & Company 
Secretary (53) 
Grant has been General Counsel & 
Company Secretary of Centrica since  
the demerger from British Gas plc in 
February 1997 , having joined British 
Gas in October 1996. 
14. Jill Shedden 
Group Director, Human  
Resources (47) 
Jill was appointed Group Director, 
Human Resources on 1 July 2011. 
Previously she was HR Director for 
Centrica Energy. She joined British Gas 
plc as a graduate in 1988 and has 
since held a wide range of roles  
across the Group including HR Director 
for British Gas Business and British 
Gas Residential.
153 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Appendix to the Directors’ Report ot Her statutor Y information
Management report
The Directors’ Report for the year can be found on pages 5 to 75 
and pages 146 to 154. The management report for the year, as 
required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, is 
incorporated by reference within the Directors’ Report.
Major acquisitions and disposals
Full details of acquisitions and disposals are disclosed in the 
Business Review on pages 5 to 50 and notes 30 and 31 to the 
Financial Statements on pages 119 and 120.
Events after the balance sheet date
Events after the balance sheet date are disclosed in note 36 to  
the Financial Statements on page 123.
Related party transactions
Related party transactions are set out in note 34 to the Financial 
Statements on page 122.
Creditor payment policy
It is the Group’s policy to:
• agree the terms of payment in advance with the supplier;
• ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment; and
• pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
The number of days’ purchases outstanding as at 31 December 
2012 was 33 (2011: 33) for the Group (excluding Centrica Energy 
Limited) and 32 (2011: 30) for the Company.
Essential contractual arrangements
The Group has contractual and other arrangements with  
various third parties. Whilst the loss of, or disruption to, certain  
of these arrangements could affect the operations of the Group 
temporarily, this Annual Report does not contain information 
about these third parties as none of the arrangements are 
considered to be essential to the Group’s business.
Significant agreements – change of control
The following are significant agreements to which the Company is 
party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a change 
of control in the Company following a takeover bid:
•  as part of the demerger in 1997, BG Group plc (which is a 
separately listed company and not a part of the Centrica Group) 
assigned ownership of the British Gas trade marks and related 
logos to Centrica for use in Great Britain. BG Group plc has the 
right to call for a re-assignment of this intellectual property if 
control of Centrica is acquired by a third party; and
•  in 2009, Centrica entered into certain transactions with EDF 
Group in relation to an investment in British Energy, an owner and 
operator of nuclear power stations in the UK. The transactions 
include rights for EDF Group and Centrica to offtake power from 
existing and new build British Energy nuclear power stations and 
to invest in new build nuclear power stations. As part of these 
arrangements, on a change of control of Centrica, the Group 
loses its rights to participate on the Boards of the companies  
in which it has invested and on Technical Committees for new 
nuclear development. Furthermore, where the acquirer is not 
located in certain specified countries, EDF Group is able to 
require Centrica to sell out its investments.
Charitable and political donations
During the year, the Group made cash charitable donations to 
support the community of £5.5 million (2011: £1.8 million). Total 
community contributions and related activities on community 
support are described in the Appendix to the Directors’ Report on 
page 151. Centrica’s political donations policy states that Centrica 
operates on a politically neutral basis. No donations were made 
by the Group for political purposes during the year. However, 
in accordance with the Federal Election Campaign Act, Direct 
Energy has authorised the establishment of a Political Action 
Committee (PAC), to facilitate voluntary political contributions  
by its US employees. The PAC is not controlled by Centrica and 
contributions from the fund are determined by a governing board 
of PAC members. Participation in the PAC is voluntary for eligible 
employees. In 2012, contributions to the PAC by employees 
amounted to US$10,900. The PAC made 19 political donations 
totalling US$7 ,500.
Share capital
The Company was authorised at the 2012 AGM to allot shares 
within certain limits and as permitted by the Companies Act.  
A renewal of this authority will be proposed at the 2013 AGM.  
The Company’s issued share capital as at 31 December 2012, 
together with details of shares issued during the year, is set  
out in note 26 to the Financial Statements on page 115.
Each ordinary share of the Company carries one vote. Further 
information on the voting and other rights of shareholders are set 
out in the Articles and in the explanatory notes which accompany 
notices of general meetings, all of which are available on the 
Company’s website.
Authority to purchase shares
The Company was authorised at the 2012 AGM to purchase  
its own shares, within certain limits and as permitted by the 
Articles. A renewal of this authority will be proposed at the  
2013 AGM. Shares repurchased may be cancelled or retained  
as treasury shares to accommodate requirements for shares 
under the Group’s share incentive schemes. No shares were 
purchased under this authority during 2012, however, on  
4 February 2013 the Company announced a £500 million  
share repurchase programme. 
Material shareholdings
At 31 December 2012 Centrica had received notification of the following material shareholdings pursuant to the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules:
31 December 2012
Ordinary
shares
% of share 
capital
Nature
 of holding
Invesco Limited 258,200,185 4.97% Indirect
Legal & General Group 201,705,927 3.88% Direct
No changes have been disclosed in accordance with these rules in the period 31 December 2012 to 27 February 2013.
Appendix to the Directors’ Report
154 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012  1 5 6 Fi na nc ia l C a l e nd a r
 1 5 7 Shar eholder Inf orma t ion
 1 6 1 Glossar y
 1 63 I n de x
Contents
Shareholder Information
155 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix a pr 
2013
May
2013
jun 
2013
jul 
2013
a ug 
2013
sep 
2013
oct 
2013
nov 
2013
dec 
2013
jan 
2014
feb 
2014
24 April 2013 
Ex-dividend date for 
2012 final dividend
26 April 2013 
Record date for  
2012 final dividend
13 May 2013
AGM, Queen Elizabeth II 
Conference Centre, London 
SW1 (2pm)  
and Q1 Interim Management 
Statement
15 May 2013 
Last date for DRIP elections for 
the 2012 final dividend
12 June 2013
Payment date for 2012 final 
dividend
17 June 2013
DRIP statements despatched 
to shareholders for the 2012 
final dividend DRIP purchase
31 July 2013
2013 Half Year 
Results
25 September 2013* 
Ex-dividend date  
for 2013 interim 
dividend
27 September 2013* 
Record date for 
2013 interim 
dividend
16 October 2013*
Last date for DRIP 
elections for the 
2013 interim 
dividend
February 2014
Preliminary 
Results 
announcement  
for 2013
13 November 2013*
Payment date for 2013 interim 
dividend
14 November 2013
Q3 Interim Management 
Statement
18 November 2013*
DRIP statements despatched  
to shareholders for the 2013 
interim dividend DRIP purchase
* Provisional dates
f inancial calendar 2013-2014
Shareholder Information
156 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Managing your shares
Please contact our Registrar, Equiniti, to manage your 
shareholding. Information is also available through the 
Shareholder Centre on our website, including frequently asked 
questions and forms available to download to help you to:
• transfer your shares;
• change your registered name or address;
• register a lost share certificate and obtain a replacement;
• consolidate your share certificates;
• manage your dividend payments;
•  buy, sell or transfer shares through Centrica FlexiShare; 
• notify the death of a shareholder; and
• register for electronic communications.
You can also manage your shareholding online by registering for 
Shareview via the electronic communications section of the 
Shareholder Centre. 
When contacting Equiniti or registering online, you should have 
your shareholder reference number at hand. This can be found on 
your share certificate or dividend tax voucher. 
If you hold less than 2,500 shares, you will be able to change your 
registered address or set up a dividend mandate instruction over 
the phone. For security, if you hold more than 2,500 shares, you 
will need to put this in writing. 
Please note, if you receive more than one copy of documents that 
we send you, it is likely that you have more than one account on 
the share register, perhaps with a slightly different name or 
address. If you write to Equiniti and give them the shareholder 
reference numbers, they will be able to combine your accounts 
into one.
We work with a specialist tracing agency, ProSearch, to identify 
shareholders whose details are not up to date and who have 
outstanding cash entitlements. Please notify Equiniti when you 
move house to ensure you continue to receive all our 
communications.
Centrica FlexiShare
FlexiShare is an easy way to hold Centrica shares without a share 
certificate. Your shares would be held in a nominee company, 
Equiniti Corporate Nominees Limited, however you are able to 
attend and vote at general meetings as if the shares were held in 
your own name. Holding your shares in this way is free and comes 
with a number of benefits:
•  low cost share-dealing rates, full details of which are available 
on the Shareholder Centre together with dealing charges; 
• quicker settlement periods for buying and selling shares; and
• the opportunity to join the Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
Dividends
Dividends on Centrica shares are usually paid in June and 
November. Details of the dividends for the year ended  
31 December 2012 can be found in note 10 to the Financial 
Statements on page 94. 
You are encouraged to have your dividends paid directly to your 
bank or building society account. This means that you will receive 
the money on the day it is paid which avoids any risk of missing 
cheques. If you do choose to receive your dividends in this way,  
a consolidated tax voucher will be sent to you in March each year.
If you do not have a UK bank or building society account, Equiniti 
are able to pay dividends in local currencies in over 30 countries. 
For a small fee, you could have your dividends converted from 
sterling and paid into your designated bank account, usually 
within five days of the dividend being paid. 
Buying and selling shares with a share certificate
If you wish to buy or sell Centrica shares and hold a share 
certificate, you can do this:
• by using the services of a stockbroker or high street bank; or
• through telephone or online services.
In order to sell your shares in this way, you will need to present 
your share certificate at the time of sale.
sHare Holder information
mana Ge more online You can view and manage your 
shareholding online. Go to the electronic 
communications section of the 
shareholder centre on our website at 
centrica.com/shareholdercentre.
What it means to us
inte Grated ener GY
How we achieve it
Shareholder Information
157 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix  
Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex  
BN99 6DA, United Kingdom 
Telephone: 0871 384 2985* and outside the UK +44 121 415 7061 
Textphone: 0871 384 2255* and outside the UK +44 121 415 7028
Online: https://help.shareview.co.uk 
*  Calls to this number cost 8 pence per minute plus network extras. 
Lines are open from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday, UK time.
sHare Holder information continued
contact 
eQuiniti
Shareholder communication
Changes in legislation have meant it is now possible for us to 
communicate to a greater extent with shareholders using our 
website. We strongly encourage our shareholders to receive 
communications electronically as it allows us to make 
considerable savings, both environmentally and financially,  
and allows you to:
•  view the Annual Report and Annual Review on the day they 
are published;
•  receive an email alert when shareholder communications 
are available;
• cast your AGM vote; and
• manage your shareholding quickly and securely.
In April 2012, together with Equiniti, we introduced an electronic 
queries service to enable our shareholders to manage their 
investment 24/7. Since then Equiniti have:
• addressed 2,000 queries using the electronic queries service;
• handled over 19,500 calls; and
• completed 150,000 transactions.
Details of this service can be found at shareview.co.uk.
A wealth of other information is available on our website, including:
• regular updates about our business;
• comprehensive share price information;
• financial results; and
• dividend payment dates and amounts.
Share repurchase programme
On 4 February 2013, the Company announced it would launch  
a £500 million share repurchase programme over the next  
12 months. Further information is available from the Shareholder 
Centre on our website.
American Depository Receipts (ADR)
We have an ADR programme, trading under the symbol CPYYY. 
Centrica’s ratio is one ADR being equivalent to four ordinary 
shares. Further information is available from the Shareholder 
Centre or please contact:
ADR Depositary
The Bank of New York Mellon – Shareowner Services
PO Box 358516, Pittsburgh, PA
Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.com or via 
bnymellon.com/shareowner
Telephone: 1-888-269-2377 toll-free in the US or
+1 201-680-6825 from outside the US
Website: adrbnymellon.com
ShareGift
It may be that you have a small number of shares which would 
cost you more to sell these than they are worth. It is possible  
to donate these to ShareGift, a registered charity, who provide  
a free service to enable you to dispose charitably of such  
shares. More information on this service can be obtained from  
sharegift.org or call +44 (0) 207 930 3737.
Centrica share history
Centrica’s shares were first traded on the London Stock 
Exchange on 17 February 1997 following the demerger from 
British Gas plc. Since then there have been three events affecting 
the share capital, as shown below, with full details available from 
Equiniti and on our website:
• 1999 share consolidation;
• 2004 share consolidation; and
• 2008 rights issue.
Contact details for our registrar 
Shareholder Information
158 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012  
If you would like this Annual Report in an alternative format,  
such as large print, Braille or CD, you can request these in the following ways:
Telephone: 0800 111 4371 Textphone: 18001 0800 111 4371
Please note that these numbers should be used to request copies of alternative formats 
only. For general shareholder enquiries, please use the Centrica shareholder helpline 
0871 384 2985*.
*  Calls to this number cost 8 pence per minute plus network extras. Lines are open from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm,  
Monday to Friday, UK time.
Accessibility
f inancial s ervices 
aut Horit Y
Check if financial services firms 
are authorised by the FSA by 
visiting fsa.gov.uk/fsaregister
Beware of share fraudsters
shareholders are cautioned to be  
very wary of any unsolicited advice, 
offers to buy shares at a discount, sell 
your shares at a premium or offers of 
free company reports.
 
Centrica is aware that some of its shareholders have recently 
received unsolicited phone calls or letters from individuals or 
companies offering to buy or sell Centrica shares on very 
favourable terms. These communications imply a connection  
with Centrica and are often from overseas based ‘brokers’ who 
are very persuasive and extremely persistent, with professional 
websites to support their activities. 
If you do receive such an approach, you are encouraged to take 
the following steps:
•  obtain the full name of the person and organisation and make  
a record of any other information they give you, for example 
telephone number, address, web address; 
• if the caller persists, simply hang up; and 
•  report the matter to the FSA so that they can investigate.  
You are able to do this online at fsa.gov.uk/
consumerinformation/scamsandswindles or by calling them  
on 0845 606 1234*.
You are advised to deal only with financial services firms that are 
authorised by the FSA. Check the firm is properly authorised by 
the FSA before getting involved by visiting fsa.gov.uk/fsaregister.  
If you do deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible  
to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme if anything goes wrong. 
Details of any share-dealing services that Centrica endorses are 
available on our website and are included in Company mailings.
* Call rates may vary. 
£200 million
The Financial Services Authority (FSA) report that  
such scams cost investors in excess of £200 million 
each year.
Shareholder Information
159 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix sHare Holder information continued
Analysis of shareholders as at 31 December 2012
Distribution of shares by type of holder Number of holdings Number of shares
Nominees and institutional investors 15,873 4,864,978,409
Individuals 664,959 334,041,265
Total 680,832 5,199,019,674
Size of holding Number of holdings Shares
1–500 498,376 113,974,972
501–1,000 104,122 72,172,111
1,001–5,000 70,199 130,079,922
5,001–10,000 4,891 34,028,164
10,001– 50,000 2,028 37,480,234
50,001–100,000 227 16,740,141
100,001– 1,000,000 592 226,893,474
1,000,001 and above 397 4,567,650,656
Total 680,832 5,199,019,674
As at 31 December 2012 there were 72,048 participants in FlexiShare, with an aggregate shareholding of 128,975,197 shares registered 
in the name of Equiniti Corporate Nominees Limited. 
online
This Annual Report can be 
viewed online. To see more go 
to centrica.com/report2012
160 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Shareholder Information $ Refers to US dollars unless specified otherwise
<1 year Less than 1 year
>1 year Greater than 1 year
2P Proven and probable
AFS Available-for-sale
AGR Advanced gas-cooled reactor
Associate An entity in which the Group has an equity interest and over which it has the ability to exercise significant influence
bbl Barrels of oil
BCF Billion cubic feet 
CER Certified emissions reduction (carbon emissions certificate)
CERT Carbon emissions reduction target
CGU Cash generating unit
CPI Consumer Price Index
DECC Department of Energy and Climate Change
DPS Total dividend per share (excluding special dividends) paid in respect of each financial year
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation
EMIR European Market Infrastructure Regulation
Employee 
engagement
Individuals’ perception of different components within an organisation, which in turn has a measurable impact on 
business performance
EMR Energy Market Reform
EPS Earnings per share. This measure of performance is calculated as profit before other costs and depreciation of fair 
value uplifts to property, plant and equipment from strategic investments and exceptional items and certain 
re-measurements for the year, attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company, divided by the weighted 
average number of shares in issue during the year
EUA European Union allowance (carbon emissions certificate)
FSA Financial Services Authority
FTSE 100 Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 share index, an average of share prices in the 100 largest, most actively  
traded companies on the London Stock Exchange
FVLCS Fair value less costs to sell
g CO2/kWh Grammes of carbon dioxide per kilowatt hour
GFRMC Group Financial Risk Management Committee
GWh Gigawatt hour
IAS 19 The International Accounting Standard related to Employee Benefits. These financial reporting rules include 
requirements related to pension accounting
IAS 39 The International Accounting Standard related to financial instruments (recognition & measurement)
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard
Jointly controlled  
entity
A joint venture which involves the establishment of an entity to engage in economic activity, which the Group 
controls jointly with its fellow venturers
kWh Kilowatt hour
Level 1 Fair value is determined using observable inputs that reflect unadjusted quoted market prices for identical assets 
and liabilities, for example exchange-traded commodity contracts valued using close-of-day settlement prices.  
The adjusted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price
Level 2 Fair value is determined using significant inputs that may be either directly observable inputs or unobservable  
inputs that are corroborated by market data, for example over-the-counter energy contracts within the active  
period valued using broker-quotes or third-party pricing services and foreign exchange or interest rate derivatives 
valued using market-based data
Level 3 Fair value is determined using significant unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data and  
may be used with internally developed methodologies that result in management’s best estimate of fair value,  
for example energy contracts within the inactive period valued using in-house valuation techniques
LNG Liquefied natural gas
LTIFR Long term injury frequency rate (previously referred to as LTIR). A lost time injury is defined as an incident arising 
out of Centrica’s operations which leads to an injury where the employee or contractor is not available to work for 
one day or more, excluding the day that the injury occurs
Glossar Y
161 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix MiFID Markets in Financial Instruments Directive
mmboe Million barrels of oil equivalent
mmth Million therms
MWh Megawatt hour
NBV Net book value
NGO Non-governmental organisation
NPS Net Promoter Score. NPS measures customer advocacy by responses to the question ‘How likely would you be to 
recommend us (0–10 scale)?’ The score is calculated by the percentage of customers defined as promoters 
(scoring 9–10) minus the percentage defined as detractors (0–6)
PP&E Property, plant and equipment
Process safety A significant process safety event is an uncontrolled release of flammable gas, steam or hot water under pressure 
causing a major injury or fatality; or the uncontrolled release of an environmentally hazardous substance causing 
significant impairment of sensitive receivers
PRT Petroleum revenue tax
RMR Retail Market Review
ROC Renewable obligation certificate
RPI Retail Price Index
SCT Supplementary charge associated with UK Corporation Tax
Securities Comprised of Treasury gilts designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition and  
available-for-sale financial assets. The fair values of securities are based on quoted market prices, when  
available. If quoted market prices are not available, fair values are estimated using observable market data
Spark spread The difference between the price of a unit of electricity and the cost of the gas used to generate it
TSR Total shareholder return measures the return to shareholders in terms of the growth of a £100 investment in the 
Company’s shares, assuming that dividends and returns of capital are reinvested. We compare our TSR with those 
of the other 99 members of the FTSE 100
TWh Terrawatt hour
VAT Value added tax
VIU Value in use
Vulnerable  
customer
A customer is vulnerable if for reasons of age, health, disability or severe financial insecurity, they are unable to 
safeguard their personal welfare or the personal welfare of other members of the household
Glossar Y continued
162 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 index Accounting policies, measures and judgements 38, 76, 82-83, 
106, 124-130, 136, 138-139
Accumulated amortisation/depreciation and impairment 99, 102, 
126, 127 , 138-139 
Accumulated other comprehensive income/loss 79, 115, 116, 118
Acquisitions, business combinations 38, 44, 47 , 49, 57 , 82, 84, 98, 
99, 102, 105, 108
Alternative Formats 159
Assets and liabilities 79, 82, 84, 88-89, 93-94, 103, 106, 108, 115, 
125-126, 128, 131-132, 137 , 144, 161
Auditors – re-appointment 55, 60
Auditors – remuneration 55, 60, 120-121
Auditors – report to the members of Centrica plc 55, 69, 76, 135
Awards 20
Balance Sheet 38, 76, 123, 124-129, 154
Balance Sheet – Company 136
Balance Sheet – Group 80
Biomass 16, 29, 41, 47
Board of Directors 6-7 , 129, 152-153
Borrowings, bank overdrafts, loans and others 37 , 80-81, 89, 93, 
96-98, 103, 109, 111, 113, 115, 119, 125, 127-128, 131, 137-139, 
144
British Gas 5-6, 10, 12-13, 14-15, 19-20, 22-25, 40-44, 86-92, 144, 
146-147 , 150-151 
Business combinations 38, 84, 99, 119-120, 125
Business principles 8, 40, 46
Capital management 38
Carbon intensity, emissions 24, 39-42, 122, 150, 161
Cash and cash equivalents 81, 96, 98, 109, 112, 114, 128 
Cash Flow Statement 76, 81, 97-98, 118, 128
CCGT (combined cycle gas turbine) 12, 17 , 28-29
Centrica Energy 12-13, 14-15, 20, 26-29, 41, 43, 82, 86-91, 132, 
143-144, 148, 150-151
Centrica Storage 13-14, 21, 30-31, 86-91, 132, 143-144, 148
CERT (Carbon Emissions Reduction Target scheme) 24, 122, 146, 
150, 161
CESP (Community Energy Saving Programme) 24, 146
Chairman’s Statement 5-8
Change of control 67 , 154
Charitable and political donations 154
Chief Executive’s Review 9-17
Climate change 30, 41, 44, 47 , 84, 161
Commitments, contingencies and indemnities 66, 84, 111, 
121-122, 131, 142
Committees 7 , 54, 58-59, 130, 154
Communities 8, 20, 40-41, 46, 151
Competition – North America 15, 32, 44, 46-47
Competition – UK 44, 46-47 , 50
Continuing operations 4, 22, 26, 30, 32, 36-37 , 78, 81-83, 86-88, 
90-95, 97 , 128, 144
Corporate governance 55-56, 66, 76, 152
Corporate responsibility 3, 7-8, 39-40, 42-43, 46, 57 , 69, 152
Cost of sales 78, 84, 91, 124-125, 127 , 133, 144
Costs of continuing operations 91
Creditor payment policy 154
Customers – health and safety 7 , 23, 33
Customers – numbers 15, 24-25, 33, 47 , 104, 147
Customers – service 3, 10-11, 13-17 , 20, 22-25, 32, 34, 39-43, 46, 
50, 57 , 150
Deferred corporation tax liabilities and assets 108, 140
Direct Energy 12-13, 14-15, 17 , 19, 21, 32-35, 40-42, 86-92, 132, 
143-145, 149, 150-151
Directors – Annual Incentive Scheme 56, 66
Directors – biographies 152-153 
Directors – directors’ indemnities 53
Directors – disclosure of information to auditors 60
Directors – emoluments 68-70
Directors – pensions 74, 85, 116-119
Directors – re-election 8, 56, 75, 153
Directors – remuneration policy 61, 66-67
Directors – responsibility statement 76, 135
Directors – service contracts 67
Directors – share interests 53
Directors – training 7 , 54-55
Disposals 47 , 83, 99, 102, 108, 120, 138, 143, 154
Dividends 3, 5, 14, 18, 37 , 65-66, 71, 73, 79, 81, 94, 103, 123, 
128, 142, 157 , 161-162
Dyno 99
Earnings per ordinary share 4, 78, 95-96, 144
Electricity Market Reform 16-17 , 44
Electronic communications 157
Employees – costs 91
Employees – engagement 3, 19, 23, 43, 57 , 65-66, 151
Employees – numbers 5, 7 , 20-21, 42, 91
Employees – pensions 128, 133, 137 , 141-142
Employees – policies 43
Employees – training 19, 40, 42-43, 45
Energy chain 12
Energy efficiency 13-14, 21-25, 32, 41, 46-47 , 84
EPS (adjusted basic earnings per share) 4, 18, 37 , 64-66, 69-71, 
125, 133, 137 , 161
Europe 2, 46, 59, 96, 106, 110, 114, 131, 143, 152-153
Events after the Balance Sheet date 38, 123, 154
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements 65, 78, 82-83, 87 , 
91-95, 105, 132, 144
163 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix index continued
Executive team 54
Fair value 36-38, 82-85, 93, 95, 100-101, 109-111, 113, 161
Financial calendar 156
Financial instruments – derivative 105
Financial instruments – fair value 82
Financial instruments – hedge accounting 37 , 96, 98
Financial Review 36-38
Financial risk management 111-114, 130-132, 138, 161 
Five-year record 144
Fixed fee service and insurance contracts 123, 125, 133
FSA (Financial Services Authority) 54, 96, 133, 159, 161
Gas and liquids reserves 84, 143
Gas exploration 26
Gas production 9, 21, 26-27 , 32, 35, 38, 41, 94, 101-102, 109, 120, 
127 , 132, 134, 148-149
Glossary 161-162
Goodwill and other intangible assets 99, 100-101, 144
Group Financial Statements 124, 134-135, 137-142
Health and safety 3, 7 , 14, 17 , 19, 23, 26-27 , 31, 33, 35, 42, 57 , 
65-67 , 151, 162
Hedge accounting 105-107 , 129, 137
Income Statement 78-79, 91-92
Indemnities 53, 84, 122
Interest 93
International Financial Reporting Standards 38, 76, 82
Inventories 97 , 104, 127
Joint ventures and associates 36-37 , 78-79, 81-82, 88, 93-94, 97 , 
103-104, 115, 122, 126-127 , 132, 134, 144 
Key performance indicators (KPIs) 3, 15, 18-19, 39, 64-66, 71-72, 
125, 137
Liquefied natural gas (LNG) 13, 16-17 , 29, 31, 41, 48, 121, 134, 161
Low carbon 2, 9-10, 13, 16, 39, 41
LTIFR (lost time injury frequency rate) 3, 14, 19, 23, 33, 42, 44, 
65-66, 151, 161
Net interest 36-37 , 78, 93, 107
NPS (Net Promoter Score) 15, 19, 23, 34, 40-41, 65, 72, 150, 162
Nuclear 2, 4-5, 10, 12, 14, 16, 20, 26-29, 37-38, 41-42, 45, 47 , 55, 
83-85, 92, 95, 103-104, 122-123, 130, 132, 134, 148, 152, 154
Ofgem 14, 23-24, 40-41, 44, 122
Other equity 79, 116, 132-133
Outsourcing and offshoring 121
Power generation 16-17 , 20-21, 26, 32, 35-37 , 41, 45, 47 , 85, 102, 
124-125, 130, 132, 134, 150
Prices, wholesale and retail 5, 14, 16-17 , 23-24, 28, 30, 34-38, 40, 
44, 46-48, 50, 85, 100-101, 130-131
Principal undertakings 134, 138
Property, plant and equipment 81-82, 87 , 88, 90, 95, 97 , 102, 121, 
127 , 130, 144, 162
Provisions 4, 38, 85, 97 , 108-109, 113, 138-140
Related party transactions 122, 154
Renewables – wind farm 5, 12, 14, 16, 26, 29, 38-39, 41, 83, 85, 
102-103, 109, 120, 122, 134, 138, 142, 148
Renewables Obligation Certificate (ROC) 126, 162
Reserves 1-2, 10, 12, 16, 20, 26-28, 32, 35, 132, 143
Retail Market Review 40, 44
Rights Issue 73, 144, 158
Risk Management 32, 35, 38, 55, 111-114, 129-132, 138
Segmental analysis 86-90, 132
Shale gas 5, 16, 29, 41, 48, 57
Share-based payments 91, 122, 125, 133, 137 , 138
Share capital 79, 81, 83, 95, 115, 128, 132, 142, 154, 158, 
Shareholder information 156-160, 161-162
Share repurchase 4-5, 14, 17 , 38, 123, 154, 158 
Share schemes – employee 43, 56, 67 , 69, 79, 115-116, 125, 133, 
136-138, 142
Share schemes – Executive 64, 67 , 69-70, 73-75, 133
Shares – analysis of shareholders 160
Shares – funds 136, 142
Shares – material shareholdings 154
Shares – price 49, 58, 63, 65, 69, 70, 73, 140, 158
Shares – share capital 79, 81, 83, 95, 115, 128, 132, 142, 154, 158
Smart meters 13, 15, 17 , 20, 22, 25, 47 , 84
Sources of finance 38, 96-97
Statement of Changes in Equity 76, 79, 142
Statutory Information 154
Strategic Priorities 2, 6, 9-11, 16, 32, 40, 47 , 66
Supplementary information 124-134
Supply chain 17 , 39, 44
Tangible fixed assets 137
Tax and taxation 4-5, 16, 18-19, 23, 36-38, 65, 80-81, 85, 87-89, 
92-95, 98, 100-101, 103-104, 108, 112, 115-118, 120, 126, 128, 
132-133, 137-144, 157 , 161-162
Trade marks 154
Trade payables 107 , 113, 128
Trade receivables 91, 104-105, 113, 122, 128
Trade Unions 50, 116
TRIR (total recordable injury rate) 42, 151
TSR (total shareholder return) 3, 10, 18, 63-66, 69-72, 125, 133, 
137, 162
Vulnerable customers 15, 24, 40-41, 43, 46, 150-151
Warm Home Discount (WHD) 15, 24, 43-44, 150 
164 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Integrated energy I s what we do.
It means constantly exploring new ways to 
source, procure and generate an affordable 
supply of energy.
It means integrating innovation and 
technology into the home, giving our 
customers access to energy and services, 
whenever they need it.
It means working with governments, 
regulators and partners to make the right 
things happen at the right time.
Most important of all, it means empowering 
our customers to take control of their  
energy needs as we work towards a  
low carbon future.
Integrated energy fro M Centr ICa.
onl Ine
Use your smartphone or tablet  
to scan this QR code for instant 
access to the Centrica Annual 
Report 2012 online
what it means to us
Integrated energy
how we achieve it
Disclaimer
This Annual Report and Accounts does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for, or otherwise 
acquire or dispose of any Centrica shares or other securities.
This Annual Report and Accounts contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial 
condition, results, operations and businesses of Centrica plc. These statements and forecasts involve risk and 
uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future. There are 
a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or 
implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts. 
Past performance is no guide to future performance and persons needing advice should consult an independent 
financial adviser.
This report is printed on Revive 100 Silk  
which is made from 100% recycled post-
consumer fibre that is Totally Chlorine Free. 
This paper has been independently certified 
according to the rules of the Forest 
Stewardship Council (FSC
®
).
Designed and produced by 
Photography by David Hares, Mike 
Abrahams, Igor Emmerich, Charlie Fawell  
and David Partner. 
Printed by CPI Colour Limited  
ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral
®
. Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Integrated energy
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Centr ICa pl C
Registered office: Millstream,  
Maidenhead Road, Windsor,  
Berkshire SL4 5GD
Company registered in England  
and Wales No. 3033654
centrica.com Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Integrated energy Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Integrated energy I s what we do.
It means constantly exploring new ways to 
source, procure and generate an affordable 
supply of energy.
It means integrating innovation and 
technology into the home, giving our 
customers access to energy and services, 
whenever they need it.
It means working with governments, 
regulators and partners to make the right 
things happen at the right time.
Most important of all, it means empowering 
our customers to take control of their  
energy needs as we work towards a  
low carbon future.
Integrated energy fro M Centr ICa.
onl Ine
Use your smartphone or tablet  
to scan this QR code for instant 
access to the Centrica Annual 
Report 2012 online
what it means to us
Integrated energy
how we achieve it 1 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
oUr Integrated  
BUsIness M odel
See how we deliver at every  
stage of the energy chain  
on page 12
del Iver Ing o Ur 
vIsIon
Read about our strategic  
priorities on page 10
Introduction
You can find here a short summary of our business 
together with the Group’s financial performance.
 2 Centrica at a Glance  
 4 Performance Highlights 
Summary Governance
Read here a summary of our corporate governance 
and remuneration arrangements.
 42 Summary Corporate Governance Report
 43 Summary Remuneration Report
Business Review
We discuss here how we have delivered our vision and 
strategy in 2012 and take the opportunity to introduce 
the next step of our strategic direction.
 5 Chairman’s Statement
 9 Chief Executive’s Review 
   9 Marketplace
   10 Our vision and strategic priorities
   12 Our business model
   14 Review of the year
 18 Key Performance Indicators
 20 Our Businesses
 22 Operating Review
 36 Corporate Responsibility Review 
 38 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Appendix
The Directors’ biographies can be found here.
 46  Biographies of the Board of Directors and  
Senior Executives
Shareholder Information
If you need help with managing your shareholding or 
you want to know more about our financial calendar 
and share register, then this information can be found 
here.
 48 Shareholder Information
Summary Financial Statements
Here you can find the summarised Group Financial 
Statements.
 40 Summary Financial Statements
 40 Summary Group Income Statement
 41 Summary Group Balance Sheet
 41 Summary Group Statement of Changes in Equity
 41 Group Cash Flow Statement  
2 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Introduction
Centr ICa at a glan Ce
STR ATEGIC PRIORITIES
PA G E 10 Bu SIn ESS m Od El PA G E 12
m ARk ET Pl ACE
PA G E 9
Our strategic priorities
We have refreshed our strategy to 
ensure we deliver our vision.
Innovate to drive 
growth and service 
excellence 
 I nte g r a te our natural 
gas business, linked to 
our core markets
InCrease our returns 
through efficiency 
and continued capital 
discipline
Our business model
A resilient, integrated business 
model is key to our success.
we soU r Ce It 
by finding and developing new gas 
reserves across the world.
we generate I t
through our fleet of gas-fired power 
stations and wind farms.
we pro Cess I t
at our onshore gas terminals, making 
it safe for our customers to use.
we store I t
at our Rough storage field, the largest 
gas storage facility in the UK.
we trade I t 
in the UK, North America and Europe 
to secure gas and power for our 
customers.
we sUpply I t
to our residential and commercial 
customers in the UK and North 
America.
we serv ICe It
through our energy services and 
installation businesses.
we save I t
by offering a range of low carbon 
products and services to our 
customers.
The markets we operate in
The energy world is constantly 
evolving.
downstrea M
British Gas is the leading residential 
energy and services provider in 
Britain and Direct Energy is one of 
North America’s largest energy and 
energy related services providers.
Upstrea M
Centrica Energy has upstream  
gas and oil operations in the UK, 
Norway, the Netherlands, North 
America and Trinidad and Tobago. 
The Company also owns gas-fired 
power stations and has interests in 
nuclear and renewable generation  
in the UK. Centrica Storage operates 
more than 70% of the UK’s total gas 
storage capacity. Securing  
our customers’ energy needs, 
sustainably and affordably, is at  
the core of what we do.  
3 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Introduction
k Ey PERf ORm An CE In d ICATORS
PA G E 18
our vision is to be the leading 
integrated energy company  
with customers at our core
Measuring our progress
Our key performance indicators 
monitor our progress and keep 
our focus on delivery. 
We monitor our performance by 
measuring and tracking key 
performance indicators (KPIs) that  
we believe are important to our 
longer-term success. Long-term 
sustainable performance of these 
KPIs is linked to the remuneration 
arrangements of our Executive 
Directors and senior executives.
fI nan CIal kp Is
•	 Adjusted	operating	profit
•	 Adjusted	basic	earnings	per	share
•	 Total	shareholder	return
•	 Dividends	per	share
non -fI nan CIal kp Is
•	 Lost	time	injury	frequency	rate
•	 Process	safety
•	 Customer	trust
•	 Employee	engagement
Responsibility
The impact our business  
activities have on society and  
the environment. 
Our corporate responsibility ambition 
is to be the most trusted energy 
company. We need to be trusted  
by our customers, governments, 
regulators and investors by effectively 
managing our social and environmental 
impacts. In achieving a broad 
foundation of stakeholder trust, we 
can ensure long-term sustainable 
business success.
Go to centrica.com to see our 
responsibility process in more detail.
Our principal risks
To achieve our priorities, we need 
to be aware of the principal risks 
that affect our business. 
The risks we face in a rapidly 
changing energy landscape continue 
to evolve over time. A number of 
measures helped to mitigate those 
factors in 2012 while 2013 presents 
our organisation with more 
challenges. Robust governance and 
a clear risk strategy prepare us for 
any uncertainties ahead.
prI nCIpal r Isks
•	 	 Health,	safety,	security	and	
environment
•	 	 Brand	and	reputation
•	 Legislation		 and	regulation
•	 	 Strategic	growth
•	 	 Commodity	costs
•	 Change	management
•	 	 Information	security
•	 People
PRIn CIPAl RISk S
PA G E 38
CORPOR ATE RESPOn SIBIl IT y PA G E 36 4 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
•  Adjusted earnings up 5% to £1,406 million; 27.1 pence adjusted basic EPS
• Statutory earnings £1,273 million
• Cooler weather saw average domestic gas consumption increase by 12%
• Centrica Energy and Direct Energy benefiting from enhanced scale
•  Adjusted Group tax charge of £1.1 billion
•  Share repurchase of £500 million announced and full year dividend up 6% 
•  £2.7 billion invested in 2012
perfor Man Ce hIghl Ights
Adjusted earnings
£m
Group revenue
‡
£bn
Dividend per share
pence
911
1,111
1,297
1,333
1,406
2008 2012 2011 2010 2009
20.9
22.0
22.4
22.8
23.9
2008 2012 2011 2010 2009
12.2
12.8
14.3
15.4
16.4
2008 2012 2011 2010 2009
2012 2011
Business
 performance
£m
Exceptional
 items and certain 
re-measurements
£m
Statutory 
result
£m
Business
 performance
£m
Exceptional
 items and certain 
re-measurements
£m
Statutory 
result
£m
Adjusted operating profit:
British Gas 1,093 1,005
Centrica Energy 1,230 1,023
Centrica Storage 89 75
Direct Energy 331 312
Total adjusted operating profit 2,743 2,415
Depreciation of fair value uplifts from Strategic 
Investments, before tax (96) (105)
Interest	and	taxation	on	joint	ventures	and	associates (85) (102)
Group operating profit 2,562 63 2,625 2,208 (794) 1,414
Net interest expense (183) – (183) (146) – (146)
Taxation (1,029) (140) (1,169) (810) (16) (826)
Profit from continuing operations after taxation 1,350 (77) 1,273 1,252 (810) 442
Discontinued operations – – – 13 (34) (21)
Profit for the year 1,350 (77) 1,273 1,265 (844) 421
Depreciation of fair value uplifts from Strategic 
Investments, after taxation 56 68
Adjusted earnings 1,406 1,333
‡ From continuing operations
Unless otherwise stated, all references to operating profit or loss, taxation and earnings numbers throughout 
the	report	are	adjusted	figures,	as	reconciled	to	their	statutory	equivalents	in	the	table	above.
Introduction 5 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Chairman’s Statement
ChaI r Man’s state Ment
Upstream we invested around £2 billion  
in helping secure gas supplies for the UK. 
In parallel, we achieved first power from  
our Lincs offshore wind farm and worked 
with our partners in extending the life of 
our existing nuclear fleet. We took the 
decision not to participate in new nuclear 
construction with EDF due to higher 
anticipated costs and a lengthened 
construction schedule. This will enable us 
to return some of the capital we had raised 
for this purpose through a £500 million 
share repurchase programme.
In North America, a carefully executed 
strategy of operational efficiencies, organic 
growth and customer acquisition helped 
us to further expand our business – and 
we are well on the way to doubling 
profitability since 2009. With a change in 
the centre of gravity in our North American 
activities we moved the corporate 
headquarters from Toronto to Houston  
and our ambition to extend further our role 
in this market remains a strategic priority. 
The impact of shale gas in North America 
cannot be overstated and whilst its 
immediate effect has been to lower 
wholesale gas prices in the US market, 
there is no doubt it will influence global 
energy markets over time.
Our strategic vision is to be the leading 
integrated energy company, with 
customers at our core. The way in which 
we achieve this must reflect the changes  
in markets and sources of supply together 
with a constant assessment of costs  
and return for shareholders.
our strategic vision is to 
be the leading integrated 
energy company, with 
customers at our core.
Review of the year 
It is now three years since we defined  
our	strategic	objectives	to	build	a	more	
sustainable, vertically integrated, cost 
effective and customer focused business 
with meaningful geographic diversity.  
We	were	clear	that	to	achieve	this	objective	
we would need to grow British Gas, 
acquire upstream assets on value creative 
terms and expand the scale of our North 
American activity.
I am pleased to confirm that in 2012 we 
demonstrated, through strong operational 
performance and acquisition, our 
considerable progress in achieving  
these strategic goals.
In the UK the year brought many 
challenges, with periods of colder weather 
compared to the very mild conditions of 
2011 contributing to higher energy bills,  
and with material changes in the regulatory 
environment. The management team  
dealt with all of the turbulence with great 
professionalism and commitment.
British Gas took the lead in simplifying tariffs 
and implemented changes consistent with 
Ofgem’s proposals for retail market reform. 
In parallel we continued to innovate with 
smart metering, to help consumers manage 
their energy usage, and to support 
customers with free insulation to reduce 
their consumption.
A relentless focus on cost management 
helped British Gas implement the lowest 
tariff	increase	of	all	the	major	energy	
suppliers, necessitated by higher 
wholesale energy costs, Government 
driven green energy costs and the 
imposition of additional infrastructure 
charges. Nevertheless, the very real 
concerns of hard pressed consumers, 
fuelled by external commentary, has 
impacted public trust in the industry  
and in British Gas as the nation’s largest 
energy supplier in particular.
Centrica is one of the UK’s most important 
companies, employing around 40,000 
people, keeping homes warm and well lit, 
securing future energy supplies, innovating 
and investing and paying substantial 
amounts of tax to the Treasury each year. 
We also have over 700,000 individual 
shareholders, all of whom benefit from the 
dividends the Company pays. Through our 
larger shareholders, many of them pension 
funds, our dividends also feed into the 
retirement savings of millions of people.  
It is important therefore that the Group 
continues to grow and invest. The 5% 
increase	in	adjusted	earnings	we	achieved	
in 2012 enabled us to invest more and to 
continue to grow our dividend in real 
terms. The importance of winning 
recognition for our contribution to the  
UK economy and building public trust 
continue to be priority items on our agenda.
Sir Roger Carr
Chairman
Centrica is one of the 
Uk’s most important 
companies 6 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Chairman’s Statement
Cha Ir Man’s stateM ent C ont InUed
Our aim in 2013 and beyond will be to 
focus on three strategic priorities – 
innovate to drive growth and service 
excellence, integrate our natural gas 
business linked to our core markets and 
increase our returns through efficiency  
and continued capital discipline.
We will achieve these goals by 
differentiating our UK business through  
our systems and innovation to provide a 
competitive edge and investing upstream 
for value, while maintaining our structural 
hedge. In North America we will grow our 
customer base and service business and 
seek to enhance our midstream and 
upstream position by acquisition when 
strategic fit and returns are attractive.
We believe that under the leadership  
of Sam Laidlaw we have developed a 
strong platform on which we can build a 
rewarding future for both customers and 
shareholders. This has been achieved  
with the considerable commitment of  
the management team and the skills  
and enthusiastic support of colleagues  
on both sides of the Atlantic.
The period ahead will bring new 
challenges. In order to ensure the 
organisation of our management team is 
appropriate for the task ahead, with effect 
from 1 July 2013 the Group will migrate 
from a regional structure to an international 
functional structure. Chris Weston will 
assume responsibility for downstream 
operations and Mark Hanafin will assume 
responsibility for upstream operations 
across the Group.
After a successful career spanning 12 
years with Centrica, Phil Bentley will be 
stepping down from his role as Managing 
Director of British Gas, and Board member 
of Centrica, on 30 June 2013 and will leave 
the Company by 31 December 2013.
Phil Bentley has made a substantial 
contribution to the development of the 
business, initially as Finance Director and 
for the last six years as Managing Director 
of British Gas.
In his most recent role he has been 
instrumental in restructuring, reinvigorating 
and materially improving the performance 
of the business by raising customer 
service, lowering costs and increasing 
productivity. As Chairman, and on behalf 
of the Board, I thank him for all that he has 
achieved and wish him every success for 
the future.
I am confident that the bench strength  
we	enjoy,	the	mindset	we	have,	the	new	
management structure and business 
model we have created will continue to 
deliver strong cashflows, enabling us to 
invest in customer service, supply security 
and shareholder reward.
Corporate culture
The Centrica business model is both  
wide ranging and complex, but its  
culture is simple and straightforward – 
professionalism, openness and 
transparency in the way we do things, 
together with integrity and honesty in  
how we do them.
An organisation is dependent upon its 
management and structure for the 
execution of strategy and its culture for  
the way in which its results are achieved.
1. Sir Roger Carr
Chairman
2. Sam Laidlaw
Chief Executive
3. Phil Bentley
Managing Director, British Gas
4. Margherita Della Valle
Non-Executive Director
5. Mary Francis CBE
Senior Independent Director
6. Mark Hanafin
Managing Director, Centrica Energy
7. Lesley Knox
Non-Executive Director
8. Nick Luff
Group Finance Director
9. Andrew Mackenzie
Non-Executive Director
10. Ian Meakins
Non-Executive Director
11. Paul Rayner
Non-Executive Director
12. Chris Weston
Managing Director, North America
Senior Executives
13. Grant Dawson
General Counsel & Company 
Secretary
14. Jill Shedden
Group Director, Human Resources
Our Board members
2 3 4 5 6 7 1 7 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Chairman’s Statement
Summ ARy GO v ERn An CE PAGE 42
BIOGRAPh IES PAGE 46
As a customer-facing business, respect  
for the individual, commitment to good 
service and adherence to the highest 
standards of behaviour in the customers’ 
homes or place of work are at the heart  
of what we do. Our core values seek to 
ensure our people are welcome and 
trusted wherever they go.
We employ around 40,000 people  
working in many countries and different 
environments from offshore rigs, to 
onshore plants, in administrative locations, 
on the road, in office premises and in 
customers’ homes. Caring for the welfare 
of our people wherever they are is our 
absolute priority.
In our health and safety policy no corners 
may be cut, nor costs trimmed, if it is at  
the expense of our people, customers, 
suppliers or contractors. This message  
is transmitted direct from the boardroom 
through management and reinforced in 
clear procedures, rigorous training and  
our incentive reward structure.
As a Board our focus is not simply on how 
much money the Company makes but 
how the Company makes money.
Corporate practice
In keeping with best practice, we oversee 
the Group worldwide through a unitary 
Board and six separate Committees – Audit, 
Nominations, Remuneration, Corporate 
Responsibility, Executive and Disclosure. 
Each Committee has agreed terms of 
reference and schedules a series of meetings 
throughout the year with disciplined agendas. 
Each Committee is professionally chaired 
and populated by an appropriate mix of 
Non-Executive and/or Executive Directors.
nationals – three are women and three men, 
three in full time executive employment and 
three who have a number of non-executive 
roles in both public and private companies.
Our most recent appointments to the Board 
over the last 24 months have brought both 
current operational experience and fresh 
perspective, and reinvigorated the debate 
and discussion.
Diversity
Centrica is strongly committed to the 
merits of diversity in all its forms at Board 
level and throughout the Group.
Twenty five percent of the Board are 
women. As a founding Chairman of the 
30% Club, I have long believed that the 
attainment of any role must be by merit, 
but that gender diversity can be an  
added value. Centrica is committed to 
maintaining its current level of women on 
the Board and would increase the 
percentage if the skills of the individual 
were appropriate and in keeping with the 
business need. This commitment is not  
a function of governance box-ticking but  
a belief that it is in the best interests of 
the business.
Our success in achieving a desirable mix at 
the Executive Committee level has been 
less successful with currently only one 
woman on a Committee of seven. We are 
working hard to address this issue through 
a variety of measures and I am confident 
we will increase the appointment of women 
in executive roles at the highest level.
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
In addition to normal business, the work  
of the Committees is supported by training 
sessions on topics of particular relevance 
when Non-Executives require a more 
detailed understanding. Training is given  
by both members of the Centrica 
management team and external advisors.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee is 
also informed by an external advisory body 
of specialists in energy and consumer 
affairs	who	are	able	to	give	objective	
comment on policy, performance and 
governance standards of the Company 
from an outsider’s perspective.
Each Committee reports to the Board  
after every meeting to ensure a 
comprehensive briefing is given to 
Board members on progress in all areas.
Board composition
The Board comprises myself as Non-
Executive Chairman and eleven other 
Directors of which six are Non-Executive.
We have sought to ensure we have a 
balanced Board where individual merit and 
relevance are the key entry requirements 
but collectively we have an appropriate mix 
of gender, nationalities and skills to ensure 
constructive debate and thoughtful 
decision making. In addition, we believe it 
is important to maintain a blend within the 
Non-Executive group where some are in 
full time executive employment and others 
are pursuing a portfolio non-executive 
career path. 
In addition to myself as Chairman, our 
current Non-Executives comprise one 
Australian, one Italian and four British  8 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Cha Ir Man’s stateM ent C ont InUed
Board composition planning
Over the last two years we have completed 
the first phase of refreshing the Board in 
keeping with the requirement for ensuring 
independence of mind and relevance of 
skills. Our last three appointments have 
included two with full time executive roles 
to bring relevant operational and financial 
experience to the Board and one with  
a broader non-executive skillset drawn 
from her experience in finance and as a 
non-executive and chairman of other 
boards. These appointments have assisted 
a generational change in Board 
membership and provided required 
replacement chairmanship skills in both 
remuneration and audit.
Following the announcement by BHP 
Billiton in February 2013 of the appointment 
of Andrew Mackenzie as CEO it is with 
regret that we have accepted Andrew’s 
resignation as a Non-Executive Director  
of Centrica with effect from 10 May 2013. 
Andrew will not, therefore, seek re-election 
as a Director at the Annual General 
Meeting to be held on 13 May 2013.
In light of the increased content of 
upstream activity and our wider presence 
in North America, we have commenced  
a search for an additional Non-Executive 
with strong upstream credentials in North 
America. It is hoped that this appointment 
will be made in the first half of 2013.
Sadly two of our Non-Executives, Mary 
Francis and Paul Rayner, will complete 
their nine-year term of office in 2013. Both 
have made a material contribution to the 
Board and both will ultimately be a loss  
to the business. To preserve corporate 
memory and avoid undue disruption  
at one time, I intend to stagger their 
departure such that Paul Rayner remains 
on the Board to 31 December 2013 and 
Mary Francis continues in her capacity  
as Senior Independent Director during 
2014. Whilst technically this exceeds their 
nine-year term, the Board has confirmed 
that they remain independent in character 
and	judgement	and	I	believe	taking	this	
approach to be in the best interests  
of the Company. 
With these changes in mind, the role of 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, which 
has been undertaken by Paul Rayner, will 
be handed over to Margherita Della Valle  
at the time of the half year results in 2013. 
Mary Francis will remain Chairman of the 
Corporate Responsibility Committee for 
the duration of 2013.
A search will be initiated for the 
replacement of both Paul Rayner and  
Mary Francis in the second half of 2013 
with a specification of skills and background 
to be determined in keeping with the 
demand of the business model at that time.
Board evaluation
Our policy over many years has been  
to conduct a thorough review of Board 
process, practice and culture on an annual 
basis with the input of an external facilitator 
at least once every three years. 
At the end of 2011 we appointed 
Independent Board Evaluations (IBE) to 
conduct an external review and carefully 
considered their findings that they 
recommended to ‘make a good board 
great’. The main observation was on the 
importance of allocating sufficient time for 
strategic discussion over the course of  
the year’s Board meetings rather than 
concentrating our efforts at an annual  
offsite strategic review session. IBE also 
recommended sharing more detail  
of the individual Committee meetings at  
Board updates and encouraging all 
Executive Directors to participate more fully 
in Board discussion on areas outside their 
day to day responsibility. 
In 2012 we adopted all of these 
recommendations to good effect, resulting 
in fuller participation by all Board members 
and a more regular review of the strategic 
development of the Group in a rapidly 
changing external environment. In 
December 2012, we conducted an internal 
Board evaluation comprising a written 
questionnaire followed by discussion in 
order to evaluate the success of the 
changes made and identify points to  
be addressed in the next twelve months. 
Based on the responses, all Directors 
concluded that there had been 
considerable improvement in both the 
quality and frequency of strategic 
discussion. All were now satisfied with  
the progress made and the contribution  
of all Board members. Looking forward, 
there were no issues on process or 
divisions on strategy.
 
Sir Roger Carr
Chairman 
27 February 2013
Our business principles
our group-wide business 
principles create a framework  
to help us make decisions in  
line with a consistent set of 
operating behaviours based on 
trust, integrity and openness.
1. Demonstrating integrity in corporate conduct.
2. Ensuring openness and transparency.
3. Respecting human rights.
4. Enhancing customer experiences and business partnerships.
5. Valuing our people.
6. Focusing on health, safety and security.
7. Protecting the environment.
8. Investing in communities.
CORPOR ATE RESPOn SIBIl IT y PA G E 36
Business Review – Chairman’s Statement 9 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Chief Executive’s Review
world gas markets are 
evolving and we have  
to evolve with them
securing our customers’ energy needs, 
sustainably and affordably, is at the core 
of what we do. But the energy world is 
changing. By 2020:
•  almost three quarters of the UK’s gas  
will be imported;
•  more of the UK’s electricity will be 
generated from capital intensive, low 
carbon technologies;
•  every home in the UK will have a  
smart meter; and
•  in the US, shale will provide well  
over a third of natural gas production,  
having already transformed the Us 
energy market.
ChiEf E xECUtiv E’S r EviEw: MAr KEt PLACE
Sam Laidlaw
Chief Executive
our vision remains to be the leading 
integrated energy company, with 
customers at our core. we are refreshing 
our strategy to deliver that vision.
we will deploy our skills and capabilities 
so that we can benefit from the trends 
in our markets, growing and 
strengthening the business to fulfil  
our responsibilities to shareholders, 
customers and stakeholders. 
Refreshed strategic priorities to deliver 
our vision on page 10
Business model built for the evolving 
energy world on page 12
Review of the year on page 14
In More deta Il  10 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Chief Executive’s Review
oUr v IsIon and strateg IC pr Ior It Ies
we have been working hard for the past three years to 
realise our strategic priorities
Strategy delivered over the last three years
grow B r It Ish gas
l eading the transition to low  
carbon homes and business
•	 	 Stable	profits	and	strong	customer	retention	in	the	
residential business and reduced customer churn
•	 	 Increased	profitability	in	British	Gas	Services
•	 	 Clear	leadership	established	in	systems,	online	 
and smart
del Iver val Ue fro M oUr  
grow Ing U pstrea M BUsIness
securing sustainable energy for  
our customers
•	 	 Significantly	larger	and	more	geographically	 
diverse business
•	 	 Increased	gas	and	oil	reserves	and	production	 
up by around 50%
•	 	 Strong	nuclear	performance	with	life	extensions	
creating additional value
BUIld an I ntegrated north  
aMer ICan BU sIness
with leading positions in  
deregulated markets
•	 Increased	scale	in	both	upstream	and	downstream
•	 	 Improved	return	on	capital	in	North	American	
downstream
•	 	 Upstream	resource	trebled	and	production	doubled
drI ve s UperI or f Inan CIal ret Urns
t hrough operating performance  
and our unique investment choices
•	 Earnings	per	share	growth	of	25%
•	 Dividend	per	share	growth	of	28%
•	 Total	shareholder	return	of	36%	(FTSE	100:	21%) 11 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Chief Executive’s Review
Our refreshed strategic priorities 
we are now in a strong position to realise the next step of our 
strategic direction
REAd m ORE ABOu T Ou R n Ew 
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES On  
PAGES 16 TO 17
INCREASE our returns 
through efﬁciency and 
continued capital discipline
INTEGRATE 
our natural gas 
business, linked
to our core 
markets
     S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y  
 
 
 
 
     R I S K M A N A G E M E N T
Leading integrated energy company
with customers at our core
INNOVATE 
to drive growth
and service 
excellence 
G O O D G O V E R N A N C E
S T A K E H O L D E R M A N A G E M E N T 12 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Chief Executive’s Review
we so Ur Ce and generate I t
We invest in gas and oil reserves from  
the seas around the UK to secure vital 
long-term energy resources. We have 
natural gas assets in the UK, Norway, the 
Netherlands, North America and Trinidad 
and Tobago.
We generate power through our fleet  
of combined cycle gas turbine power 
stations, with eight stations in the UK and 
three plants in Texas. We also generate 
power through our equity interest in EDF 
Energy Nuclear Generation which operates 
eight UK nuclear power stations. 
Our five UK onshore and offshore wind 
farms generate renewable power. Lincs 
offshore wind farm generated its first 
power in the second half of 2012 and in 
2013 it will provide energy to more than 
200,000 homes. In North America, we 
secure the electrical output from numerous 
Texan wind farms.
OUr BUS inESS MODEL: 
an Integrated energy lands Cape
t he energy chain demonstrates how 
Centrica plays a major part in every 
aspect of energy from sourcing it to 
saving it. each link in the energy chain  
is critical to our success and helps us  
to deliver our vision to be the leading 
integrated energy company, with 
customers at our core.
CEn TRICA En ERGy PAGE 26
d IRECT En ERGy PAGE 32
 66.8mmboe
gas and liquids produced
28tw h
power generated
31 million
customer accounts 13 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Chief Executive’s Review
consumption and costs. We offer an 
increasing number of innovative low 
carbon, energy efficient products and 
services, including installing solar panels, 
insulation and ground and air source 
heating. We are also installing solar 
canopies to charge the first fully electric 
cars in the UK. 
Our UK onshore gas terminals ensure high 
quality gas enters the UK’s transmission 
system. The Barrow terminals process gas 
from our Morecambe fields in the East Irish 
Sea while the terminal at Easington, in East 
Yorkshire, processes gas from the Rough 
storage facility and from early 2013, a 
newly constructed facility at Easington  
will process gas from the York field.
We save energy by helping customers  
to improve energy efficiency, offering  
free insulation and embracing new 
technologies – with smart meters playing  
a vital role as the enabling technology in 
the smart connected home. Our recently 
launched ‘Remote Heating Control’ 
product means customers can monitor 
and control their central heating systems 
from outside the home via the internet.
In the UK and North America, we trade  
gas and power to ensure British Gas and 
Direct Energy customers have a reliable 
and competitive energy supply. We have 
extended our presence to include liquefied 
natural gas (LNG) imports. Shipping LNG 
– where the gas is cooled to liquid form  
for ease of transport – now plays an 
important part in the way we secure the 
UK’s energy needs.
we s Upply, serv ICe and save I t
we proC ess, store and trade I t
We supply energy to millions of homes and 
businesses in the UK and North America, 
and provide peace of mind with central 
heating, boiler and cooling maintenance 
and breakdown cover products.
By rolling out smart meter technology, we 
are ending the need for estimated bills, 
providing customers with accurate, 
real-time information on energy 
With the UK increasingly dependent on 
imported gas, our storage capability helps 
ensure security of gas supply to homes 
and businesses. Our Rough storage facility 
is the largest in the UK, making up more 
than 70% of national storage capacity and 
meeting around 10% of peak day demand. 
We store gas at Rough for a large number 
of customers, including utilities, gas traders 
and gas producers. 
BRITISh G AS PAGE 22
d IRECT En ERGy PAGE 32
CEn TRICA En ERGy PAGE 26
CEn TRICA STORAGE PAGE 30
d IRECT En ERGy PAGE 32 Business Review – Chief Executive’s Review
14 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
rev Iew of the year
It is important that  
Centrica makes a fair and 
reasonable return so that 
we can continue to make 
our contribution to society 
and to invest. i n 2012, we 
incurred a tax charge of 
over £1 billion and invested 
over £2 billion to secure 
new sources of energy  
for the Uk, well in excess 
of our profits.
Strong performance in 2012 allows 
us to contribute our fair share
Centrica performed well in 2012 in a 
challenging environment, delivering year on 
year	adjusted	earnings	growth	of	5%.	This	
reflects a combination of organic growth 
and enhanced scale from recent acquisitions 
and investments, in the UK, Norway and 
North America, as well as a continued 
focus on cost efficiency across the Group. 
As a result we have been able to grow the 
full-year dividend by more than the rate of 
inflation for the 13th year in succession, in 
addition to launching a £500 million share 
repurchase programme in early 2013.
Downstream at British Gas, we are facing 
increased costs in supplying energy, most 
of which are external to the Group. In this 
tough economic climate, we are committed 
to doing everything we can to help our 
customers. We have made sure that energy 
choices are simple and transparent, and  
we lead the way in standards of customer 
service, innovation, help for the vulnerable 
and energy efficiency. The weak economy 
continues to have an adverse impact on 
British Gas Business. However we were 
able to deliver strong double-digit profit 
growth in British Gas Services, largely 
through tight cost control coupled with 
continuing high standards of service.
Upstream at Centrica Energy, we continue 
to invest to secure energy supplies for the 
UK. We completed three acquisitions of 
gas and oil assets, delivering a step change 
in annual production and strengthening the 
geographic spread of our portfolio. In 
power, our Lincs offshore wind farm has 
generated first power and will be fully 
operational later in 2013. While market 
conditions remain challenging for gas-fired 
plants the nuclear fleet performed well, 
with increased output and seven year life 
extensions for Hinkley Point B and 
Hunterston B. In nuclear new build, while 
significant progress has been made, there 
remains	uncertainty	about	overall	project	
costs and the construction schedule. 
These factors, in particular the lengthening 
time frame for a return on the capital 
invested	in	a	project	of	this	scale,	has	led	
us to conclude that participation is not 
right for Centrica and in February 2013 we 
announced our decision not to participate. 
In Centrica Storage, we delivered an 
increase in profit through strong 
operational and commercial performance. 
In North America, at Direct Energy we 
delivered further profit and customer 
growth in an environment of low gas prices 
and we have successfully integrated recent 
acquisitions into the business. We continue 
to see North America as an attractive 
market to deploy capital, both upstream 
and downstream, for growth and for value. 
We remain on track to deliver our Group-
wide £500 million cost reduction 
programme, sharpening the business and 
maintaining our competitive edge. At the 
same time we have retained our absolute 
focus on safety which continues to be a 
core priority across all our activities. Our 
downstream businesses have continued 
their significant reduction in accident rates. 
Upstream operations had no significant 
process safety events in 2012 and 
continue to implement their rigorous 
programme of process safety management 
systems. At a Group level we have 
developed a more comprehensive process 
to provide greater assurance of HSE 
compliance to the Board and Executive. 
This strong safety culture is reflected in our 
performance,	with	the	lost	time	injury	
frequency rate (LTIFR) falling by 20%. 
Overall, Centrica is delivering consistent 
earnings growth and it is this which allows 
us to make our fair contribution to the 
economy and society through investment, 
employment, tax payments and dividends.
Helping our customers in 
difficult times
Taking the lead in making energy 
choices simple and transparent
In February 2013, Ofgem announced that  
it was preparing for final proposals and a 
statutory consultation to be published 
around the end of March 2013 on its reforms  15 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Chief Executive’s Review
how do we M eas Ure 
Up aga Inst oU r 
prI orI t Ies?
Our key performance  
indicators can be found  
on page 18
to make the household energy market 
simpler, clearer and fairer for consumers. 
These follow on from initial findings 
published in March 2011 and updated 
proposals announced in October 2012. 
The headline proposals are a welcome 
step forward for the industry and will help 
to improve customer trust, engagement and 
understanding. However, it is important that 
these positive developments do not have 
the unintended consequence of restricting 
choice and innovation. We have already 
implemented a number of changes 
consistent with the headline proposals, 
including simplifying our tariff structures and 
publishing price comparison information to 
make it easy for customers to ensure they 
are on the most appropriate British Gas 
tariff for them.
Customer service, cost efficiency and 
innovation remain at the heart of everything 
we do. British Gas operating costs fell year 
on year, but not at the expense of service, 
as our Net Promoter Score (NPS) 
increased once again, to +30, and we 
were awarded the top five star rating for 
customer service from Consumer Focus. 
Our improved online platform handled 13% 
more transactions than in 2011, achieving a 
better customer experience and lower 
costs. Our new ‘Remote Heating Control’ 
product allows customers to monitor and 
control their energy use when they are 
away from the home, and we have now 
installed over 800,000 smart meters for 
homes and businesses – substantially 
more than any other UK energy supplier.
We also spend more than any other energy 
supplier on those who are most in need of 
support. In 2012, 400,000 of our most 
vulnerable customers received the Warm 
Home Discount, now worth £130 off their 
annual bill. We are also at the forefront of 
measures to help people use less energy, 
installing insulation for nearly 700,000 
customers during the year.
Despite the squeeze on household budgets, 
British Gas Services performed well. We 
improved retention rates across our product 
range demonstrating the value which 
customers place on our services. However, 
in current economic conditions  
it is difficult to attract new customers and we 
also saw a reduction in boiler installation 
volumes, down 10% from last year. The 
economic impact was seen more clearly in 
British Gas Business, leading to lower 
profitability and a reduction in the number of 
accounts served in a highly competitive 
market. We are therefore taking steps to put 
this business on a stronger footing for 
long-term growth, including introducing new 
systems to improve levels of customer 
service, at lower cost. Over time, we also 
expect to achieve growth in business 
services, particularly through Energy 
Performance Contracts.
Innovation in North America
In North America, greater competition  
has been welcomed by regulators and 
customers in our core markets, Texas and 
the US North East. Acquisitions and organic 
growth have increased the size of our 
business and we now have 3.5 million 
residential energy customer accounts  
and around 6 million residential energy  
and services accounts in total.
We continue to focus on providing 
attractive and innovative products to  
our residential and business customers, 
building on our Group-wide expertise in 
competitive markets. Our prepaid ‘Power 
to Go’ product in Texas continues to grow, 
while in the US North East the introduction 
of ‘Free Power Saturdays’ has encouraged 
customers to rephase their electricity use 
to off-peak times. We are specifically 
tailoring offers for small business 
customers while continuing to deliver high 
levels of service. Our energy services 
business gives us the ability to differentiate 
ourselves from our competitors with 
additional higher margin propositions.
In Ontario, restrictions on competition 
continue to make it difficult for us both to 
retain customers and attract new ones. We 
no longer view this business as core and 
are managing costs to continue serving our 
existing customers as efficiently as possible.
Securing sustainable and 
affordable energy supplies
The Group invested £2.7 billion of capital  
in 2012, helping to secure supplies for the 
UK. Around £2 billion of that was invested 
in North Sea gas and oil assets, including  
the completion of three acquisitions. This 
materially increased the scale and 
“   wE hAvE tAKEn th E LEAD DUrin G 2012 in 
helpI ng M ore ho Useholds save energy 
and s Upport Ing the people who need  
the M ost help . “
  Sam Laidlaw
 Chief Executive Business Review – Chief Executive’s Review
16 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
soU r CIng and 
pro CUr Ing the r Ight 
energy at the r Ight 
prIC e
Read about Centrica  
Energy’s activities  
on page 26
geographic diversity of the business and 
Norway is now a core part of our portfolio, 
with a number of attractive producing, 
development and exploration assets. Over 
the past three years we have developed 
significant capabilities in upstream and 
midstream, leaving us well placed for 
future growth. 
We achieved first gas from our Ensign, 
Seven	Seas	and	Atla	development	projects	
during the year, with first gas expected 
from York and Rhyl in the coming weeks.  
In early 2013, we had positive results  
from exploration drilling at Rodriquez and 
Whitehaven. However we recorded a lower 
level of drilling success in 2012 than in 
previous years, including a development 
well failure at Ensign which resulted in a 
pre-tax write-off of £73 million. Construction 
has now begun at the £1.4 billion Cygnus 
project.	Cygnus	is	the	largest	gas	discovery	
in the Southern North Sea in the last 25 
years	and	will	create	4,000	jobs	during	the	
construction phase, predominantly in the 
UK. At peak production it will be able to 
meet the demand of nearly 1.5 million 
UK homes.
We achieved first power from our 270MW 
Lincs offshore wind farm in the year. When 
fully operational by the second half of 2013 
it will be able to meet the annual demand of 
more than 200,000 homes. We were also 
granted planning consent for 580MW at 
the	Race	Bank	offshore	wind	farm	project.	
We are willing to commit £200 million for 
the	project,	and	are	in	discussion	with	a	
financial partner and the Government 
concerning the economic framework. 
Investment in the existing nuclear fleet is 
ongoing, with the expectation for nuclear 
plant life extensions for the AGR fleet now 
seven years on average, compared to the 
five previously assumed. In gas-fired 
generation we have recently sanctioned a 
turbine blade upgrade at our 1.2GW South 
Humber power station. We also have 
strong capabilities in gas storage, and two 
potentially	attractive	projects,	Baird	and	
Caythorpe. However the market remains 
challenging	for	new	gas	storage	projects	
and we will only invest if the returns are 
appropriate for the level of risk undertaken. 
However, as with all our investment 
options, we will only deploy capital where 
the UK Government’s Electricity Market 
Reform and Gas Strategy both indicating  
a long-term role for gas-fired generation. 
However, the sources of UK gas are 
changing, with North Sea reserves declining 
and becoming more expensive to develop. 
This places more reliance on imported 
pipeline gas and particularly LNG, and 
leaves the UK increasingly exposed to 
global gas prices. 
At the same time, the nature of low carbon 
power investments in the UK is changing, 
with affordability for consumers 
increasingly	the	focus	of	attention.	Projects	
are becoming larger in scale, with higher 
capital costs and longer construction 
times, while the fixed price nature of the 
Contract for Difference mechanism means 
that output will no longer act as a hedge 
against downstream price volatility. 
Against this backdrop, our vision is to be 
the leading integrated energy company, 
with customers at our core. We have 
refreshed our strategic priorities to position 
Centrica to best advantage in this 
demanding	but	exciting	new	world:	
•	 	 Innovate	to	drive	growth	and	service	
excellence
 –  Lead with great service and efficient 
operations
 –  Enable our customers to control their 
energy use in a simpler, smarter, more 
efficient way
 –  Grow in selected markets, building on 
our leading capabilities 
•	 	 Integrate	our	natural	gas	business,	linked	
to our core markets
 –  Grow and diversify our exploration and 
production portfolio for value
 –  Develop our midstream business to 
integrate along the gas value chain
 –  Maintain a low carbon power hedge 
and invest where we see value
•	 	 Increase	our	returns	through	efficiency	
and continued capital discipline
 –  Further develop organisational 
capability
 –  Continuously focus on safety
 –  Deliver value to shareholders
These strategic priorities apply across our 
businesses in the UK, North America and 
internationally. In order to reinforce delivery 
of the priorities we are moving to an 
rev Iew of the year C ont InUed
we see attractive value, aligned to our  
core competencies. In this context, we 
announced in October that we would not 
proceed with plans to build two dedicated 
biomass plants, following recent clarification 
on the regulatory framework indicating a 
Government preference for coal conversion. 
Earlier this month, we also announced that 
we would not participate in the construction 
of up to four new nuclear reactors in the 
UK. While we believe that nuclear power 
has an important role to play in the UK’s 
energy mix, the likely cost and timescale  
of	this	project	led	us	to	conclude	that	it	 
was not in the best interests of Centrica 
shareholders for us to participate.
New strategic priorities to reflect 
changing market conditions
World gas markets are evolving and we 
have to evolve with them. Shale gas in 
North America and LNG globally have 
transformed the landscape. Gas will 
continue	to	play	a	major	role	in	the	UK,	
both	in	heating	the	overwhelming	majority	
of homes and businesses and as part of a 
diverse fuel mix for power generation, with  17 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Chief Executive’s Review
international functional organisation with  
a new management structure, aligned to 
our core competencies downstream and 
upstream. And we will do all this with the 
clear	objective	of	increasing	our	returns,	
through efficiency and continued capital 
discipline. Chris Weston will lead the 
international downstream business, as  
we build on our distinctive capabilities in 
service, systems, energy services and 
efficiency, in the UK and North America. 
Mark Hanafin will lead the international 
upstream business as we continue to 
develop opportunities along the gas value 
chain and invest where we see attractive 
value. Both Chris and Mark have extensive 
experience in the UK and North America, 
and are therefore well placed to take on 
the task ahead.
Innovate to drive growth and service 
excellence
Underlying household energy consumption 
in the UK will continue to fall as appliances 
and homes become more efficient. 
However with the UK increasingly exposed 
to global gas prices, and non-commodity 
costs expected to rise year on year, 
affordability will remain an important issue. 
By contrast, the low gas price environment 
in North America makes affordability less 
of an issue, and favourable market 
conditions in the United States offer a 
good opportunity for growth. On both 
sides of the Atlantic, the roll-out of smart 
meters will give customers a new level of 
control over their energy use and we need 
to be innovative in the way we help them 
meet their evolving energy needs. 
In the UK, we have developed a leading 
online platform and leading customer 
systems. We will also take advantage of 
our strong positions in energy services  
and smart meters to develop exciting new 
propositions, with offerings increasingly 
tailored to the needs of individual 
customers. Through relentless focus on 
service excellence, innovation and cost 
efficiency, we aim to maintain stable 
margins in residential energy supply, and 
target continued expansion in residential 
services. In business energy we have laid 
the groundwork for future growth, although 
in the near term market conditions remain 
challenging.
In North America too, service, innovation 
and cost efficiency will remain a core focus. 
But the continued liberalisation of markets 
in the United States, and the undeveloped 
nature of energy services provision, offer 
an opportunity to grow our customer base, 
both organically and through acquisition. 
We will continue to evaluate both bolt-on 
and larger acquisitions but remain focused 
on returns and will only transact where we 
see value. We will use our UK expertise and 
experience to develop our protection plan 
offerings in North America and we will 
increase the level of energy and services 
bundling over time. Over the next three to 
five years we are targeting a doubling of 
profitability in the North America downstream 
business, through a combination of organic 
growth and acquisitions, with Direct Energy 
downstream becoming a more material 
part of the Group.
Integrate our natural gas business, 
linked to our core markets
In an increasingly global market, we must 
secure gas from a wider range of sources 
and will consider at which stages of the supply 
chain we can add value, expanding the 
scope of our activities where appropriate. 
The aim is to connect sources of energy  
to our customers, building an integrated 
international business focused on the 
Atlantic basin.
The UK and Norway will remain an 
important part of our upstream investment 
and activity, as we look to maintain an 
appropriate energy hedge. We will invest  
in assets with a link to existing hubs while 
looking to divest non-core assets. However, 
with the development of North Sea fields 
becoming increasingly expensive, 
particularly in the UK, we will refresh our 
focus on value. In North America we will 
consider both conventional and 
unconventional assets, and there is also 
potential for gas exports later in the decade. 
Overall, we will invest where we see value 
across our international portfolio, delivering 
annual production in the range 75mmboe to 
100mmboe. In addition, we will look to build 
on our existing midstream capabilities and 
positions along the gas value chain, focusing 
on asset optimisation and gas contracting 
with an emerging LNG presence, provided 
we can do so in a capital efficient manner.
Our focus in UK power generation will be to 
preserve our existing power hedge, investing 
where we have a competitive advantage and 
see attractive returns. We retain a number  
of offshore wind opportunities, at Race Bank 
and in the Irish Sea. However, we will only 
invest for value and will seek to reduce our 
equity ownership through partnering where 
appropriate. We also retain options to build 
new CCGTs. However spark spreads remain 
at historically low levels and much will 
depend on the final outcome of Electricity 
Market Reform and the implementation of 
a capacity market in the UK.
Increase our returns through efficiency 
and continued capital discipline
In 2013, Centrica faces new challenges, 
including the loss of free carbon 
allowances. But we will continue to benefit 
from our cost reduction programme, from 
organic growth and also from the full-year 
impact of acquisitions, both upstream in 
gas and oil production and in North 
America. In this context, it is vital that we 
continue to focus on operational efficiency, 
reducing costs wherever possible for the 
benefit of customers and shareholders.  
All this must be done without in any way 
compromising our strong focus on health 
and safety.
Centrica has a robust balance sheet and 
generates strong cash flows and we retain 
a number of investment opportunities 
across the Group. This combination, allied 
to our expertise and experience both 
upstream and downstream, defines 
Centrica’s core capabilities. However,  
we will maintain capital discipline, as 
evidenced by our recently announced £500 
million share repurchase programme, only 
investing where we see value. Our aim now 
is to use those strengths to innovate and 
grow while adapting to a rapidly evolving 
energy world, serving our customers and 
delivering value to shareholders.
Sam Laidlaw
Chief Executive
27 February 2013 Business Review – Key Performance Indicators
18 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
key perfor Man Ce Ind ICators
we monitor our performance by measuring and tracking key performance  
indicators (kpIs) that we believe are important to our longer-term success.  
l ong-term sustainable performance of these kpIs is linked to the remuneration 
arrangements of our executive directors and senior executives.
fInan CIal
Adjusted operating 
profit
Operating profit is our  
key measure for financial 
performance. For 
remuneration purposes, 
operating	profit	is	adjusted	
to a post-tax basis and by a 
charge on capital to set the 
economic profit 
performance targets.
Target for 2013  
To continue to drive towards 
our three-year economic 
profit target range of  
£2.6 billion to £3.4 billion.
Adjusted operating 
profit £m
2,390
2,415
2,743
2010
2011
2012
£2,743m
Adjusted operating profit  
2011: £2,415m
Adjusted basic earnings 
per share (EPS)
EPS is an industry standard 
determining corporate 
profitability for shareholders. 
EPS	is	adjusted	to	reflect	
better the performance of 
the business. 2012 saw 
growth in our EPS despite 
the challenging economic 
conditions during the year.
Target for 2013  
To deliver real growth  
in	adjusted	EPS	over	
successive three-year 
periods.
Adjusted basic earnings 
per share pence
25.2
25.8
27.1
2010
2011
2012
27.1p
EPS  
2011: 25.8p
Dividend per share
Dividend per share indicates 
the level of earnings 
distributed to Centrica 
shareholders. The 2012 
dividend shows an increase 
of 6% on the 2011 dividend.
Target for 2013  
To deliver real growth each 
year. Dividends paid 
contribute to relative TSR.
Ordinary dividend pence
14.3
15.4
16.4
2010
2011
2012
16.4p
Total dividend  
2011: 15.4p
Total shareholder 
return (TSR)
The Board believes that TSR 
is a valuable KPI to assess 
the Company’s performance 
in the delivery of shareholder 
value. Centrica has 
outperformed the FTSE 100 
Index by 19% over the 
previous five years.
Target for 2013  
To deliver improved levels of 
relative TSR as a measure of 
performance over a sustained 
period.
Total shareholder return 
indices (unaudited)
Centrica return index Centrica return index
FTSE 100 return index
31 December 2007 = 100
70
90
110
130
07 08 09
Year
  10    11   12   
19%
TSR outperformance 
over five years  
2011: 5% 19 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Key Performance Indicators
non- fInan CIal
Lost time injury 
frequency rate (LTIFR)
Safety is one of our core 
priorities. We continue to 
raise our standards of 
performance through strong 
leadership and on-going 
programmes to raise 
awareness and reinforce a 
positive and proactive safety 
culture across all our 
businesses. Initiatives 
across the Group in 2012 
led to a 20% reduction in 
our LTIFR per 100,000 
hours worked.
Target for 2013  
To continue to pursue a best 
practice safety culture and 
to at least maintain, and if 
possible further improve,  
our LTIFR.
LTIFR per 100,000 
hours worked
0.25
0.20
2011
0.43 2010*
2012
*  2010 figure does not include third-party 
managed contractors and is not directly 
comparable to 2011 and 2012 data.
0.20
LTIFR  
2011: 0.25
Process safety
We have introduced a 
separate process safety 
measure which focuses on 
the integrity of operating 
systems and processes  
that handle hazardous 
substances and therefore 
emphasises the importance 
of a positive safety culture.
There were no significant 
process safety events 
in 2012.
Target for 2013  
To continue to develop 
process safety strategies 
and training and to improve 
performance on all process 
safety metrics.
 
0
Significant events 
2011: 2
Employee engagement
We use a Group-wide 
employee survey to 
measure engagement and 
to receive feedback on how 
we can create a positive and 
challenging environment. 
We did not conduct a 
survey in 2011 but 
undertook a review on how 
we measure employee 
engagement and how to 
use it as a tool to drive 
business performance.  
The survey in 2012 resulted 
in a mean score of 4.72  
out of 6.
Target for 2013  
To continue to strive towards 
top quartile performance 
measured against an 
identified high performance 
benchmark range.
4.72 out of 6
Employee engagement 
2011: not applicable
Customer trust
We track our performance 
using net promoter scores 
(NPS) for our two customer-
facing	businesses:	British	
Gas in the UK and Direct 
Energy in North America.
From 2012 we have 
introduced low, median  
and high performance 
ranges for NPS.
British Gas NPS improved in 
2012 with an annual average 
score of +30, despite higher 
call volumes as a result of 
colder weather. Direct 
Energy NPS rose to +39.  
Both results were within the 
high performance range.
Target for 2013  
To remain within the high 
performance range.
Net promoter scores
+26
+30 2012
+28
+39
2011
2012
2011
British Gas 
Direct Energy 
+26
+30 2012
+28
+39
2011
2012
2011
British Gas 
Direct Energy 
Unless otherwise stated, all references to  
operating profit or loss, taxation and earnings  
numbers	throughout	the	report	are	adjusted	figures,	 
as reconciled to their statutory equivalents in the  
table on page 4.
REm u n ER ATIOn REPORT
 PA G E 43 Business Review – Our Businesses
20 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
British Gas is Britain’s leading residential energy and services 
provider. Our energy business supplies gas and electricity to 
millions of homes and businesses in Britain, winning awards 
for high quality customer service and innovation. 
British Gas’ services business installs, repairs and maintains 
boilers and heating systems. Our engineers also service 
electrical systems, appliances, plumbing and drains. We help 
our business customers reduce their energy consumption 
and cut costs, with a range of value-added services.
British Gas is committed to an energy efficient future – 
whether it’s cutting consumption with insulation measures  
or the latest advances in solar panels and electric vehicles. 
We offer our customers the most up-to-date technology – 
including smart meters and automated heating and security 
systems.	We	bring	innovative	home	improvement	projects	 
to local communities. By focusing on our customers’ needs, 
British Gas keeps homes and businesses across Britain 
warm and working.
Centrica Energy is an international business delivering growth  
and shareholder value through a balanced mix of gas and oil 
production, power generation and energy trading.
Our upstream oil and gas business operates in the UK, the Irish 
Sea, the Norwegian and Dutch sectors of the North Sea, as well  
as in Trinidad and Tobago. In 2012, we added 170mmboe to  
our reserves.
Our power generation business has a fleet of gas-fired power 
stations, offshore wind farms and a 20% share in the power 
generated by EDF Energy’s UK nuclear power plants. 
Our midstream business operates in the UK and European energy 
markets, trading in energy produced both inside and outside the 
business. It also supplies British Gas with electricity and gas.
oUr BU sInesses
25 million
Customer accounts
56.7mmboe
Gas and liquids produced
21,489Gwh
Power generated
5 star
Customer service rating from  
Consumer Focus
30,305
Employees
1,788
Employees
£13,716m £4,321m
Revenue (2011: £12,315m) Revenue (2011: £4,459m)
£1,093m £1,230m
Adjusted operating profit (2011: £1,005m) Adjusted operating profit (2011: £1,023m)
OPER ATIn G REv IEw PAGE 22
OPER ATIn G REv IEw PAGE 26 21 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Our Businesses
Centrica Storage operates the Rough offshore gas storage 
facility in the Southern North Sea and the associated  
Easington Terminal.
The business stores gas in the Rough field on behalf of a 
number of customers, including utilities, gas traders, gas 
producers and other Centrica businesses. Gas is taken from 
the National Transmission System at Easington, piped offshore 
and	is	injected	into	a	subsea	reservoir,	to	be	delivered	back	
when it is required to meet seasonal peak demands.
Our Rough storage facility is the largest in the UK, able to meet 
approximately 10% of the UK’s current peak day demand and 
representing over 70% of UK storage capacity.
Recent	major	works	at	Easington	will	allow	us	to	process	gas	
from	Centrica’s	York	project	and,	potentially,	from	other	third	
parties in the future. 
Direct Energy is one of North America’s largest energy and 
energy related services providers. We provide choice and 
support in managing energy use and costs through our 
portfolio of innovative products and services. We operate  
under four lines of business.
Direct Energy Residential offers a wide range of fixed and 
variable natural gas and electricity pricing plans in addition  
to time-of-use and prepaid products using smart meter 
technologies. 
Direct Energy Business provides natural gas and electricity 
sales as well as energy efficiency management and services. 
Direct Energy Upstream manages natural gas production, 
power generation, midstream gas storage and transportation 
across North America. 
Direct Energy Services is North America’s largest provider  
of heating and cooling, plumbing and electrical services. 
0
Lost time incidents in three years
306
Employees
6,243
Employees
6 million
Customer accounts
70%
We own over 70% of the UK’s gas storage capacity
 10. 1mmboe
Gas and liquids produced
6,336Gwh 
Power generated
£164m £5,741m
Revenue (2011: £164m) Revenue (2011: £5,886m)
£89m £331m
Adjusted operating profit (2011: £75m) Adjusted operating profit (2011: £312m)
OPER ATIn G REv IEw PAGE 30
OPER ATIn G REv IEw PAGE 32 22 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Operating Review
Br It Ish gas
2012 was an important 
year for British gas – 
our 200th anniversary.  
in 1812, our founding 
company brought gas 
lighting to l ondon’s 
streets for the first time. 
In 2012, we are still innovating. Today’s 
technology looks very different but our 
principles of service excellence for our 
customers are the same – that’s why  
we look after millions of homes in Britain.
One new innovation is smart meters. The 
British Gas roll-out programme is bringing 
significant benefits to customers. Smart 
meters bring with them ground-breaking 
new products and services – energy 
efficiency reports, time-of-use tariffs  
and itemised billing. 
New technology reaches its full potential 
only with an unrelenting commitment to 
service excellence. British Gas continues 
to lead the industry in service – whether it’s 
our award winning online presence and 
smartphone applications, downloaded 
more than 650,000 times, or our unique 
‘Model Visit’ and ‘Model Call’. British Gas 
established a Customer Board in 201 1 
which continues to play a role in ensuring 
we put customers at the heart of 
everything we do. By putting the customer 
front and centre we are growing existing 
sales channels and opening new ones.
British Gas is evolving from a supplier  
of electricity and gas to a provider of 
complete energy products and services. 
From remote heating controls to 
revolutionary energy efficiency services  
For the year ended 31 December 2012 2011
Adjusted operating profit
‡
 (£m)
Residential energy supply 606 544
Residential services 312 269
Business energy supply and services 175 192
Customer numbers (year end, ’000)
Residential energy customer accounts 15,656 15,881
Residential services product holdings 8,402 8,484
Business energy supply points 924 999
‡ From continuing operations
Phil Bentley
Managing Director, British Gas
Adjusted operating profit
‡
£m
“  we Cont InUe to lead the  
Ind Ustry In s Mart M eter Ing, 
energy eff ICIenCy, help for  
the v Ulnera Ble and I n ens Ur Ing 
that o Ur energy propos It Ion I s 
sIMple, fa Ir and transparent. ” 
840
712
1,011
1,216
1,005
1,093
2008 2007 2012 2011 2010 2009
for business customers, we’re making 
the connected home and connected 
business a reality, adding significant 
value to our business.
We have seen positive growth in our 
residential energy and services divisions. 
Although we face higher external costs 
– wholesale commodity, transportation 
and environmental – we have minimised 
the impact through the careful 
management of our own costs. We are 
leading the industry in energy efficiency 
measures and advice, helping our 
customers to reduce consumption. 
For 200 years we have brought 
innovation to Britain’s energy industry. 
We are delivering the profits that enable 
investments in alternative forms of energy 
and new gas fields to keep homes and 
businesses warm and well lit. We will 
continue to do so, making a successful 
British Gas good news for Britain. 23 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Operating Review
Good performance against a 
challenging economic backdrop
British Gas performed well in 2012, in a 
weak economy and with continuing 
increases to the cost of supplying energy. 
This is having a real impact for both 
residential and business customers and, 
against this backdrop, it is important that 
we continue to focus on improving 
customer service and reducing costs. We 
also continue to lead the industry in smart 
metering, energy efficiency, help for the 
vulnerable, and in ensuring that our energy 
proposition is simple, fair and transparent.
In residential energy supply, we delivered 
margins in line with our through-cycle 
expectations, in a period where all 
suppliers were faced with higher wholesale 
gas prices and higher non-commodity 
costs, including the cost of upgrading the 
UK’s gas and electricity grids and meeting 
carbon reduction targets. Weather 
conditions were cooler than usual, following 
unusually mild temperatures in 2011. 
Average gas consumption was therefore 
higher compared to the prior year, partially 
offset by efficiency measures taken by our 
customers, including the take-up of our 
free insulation offers and the installation  
of more efficient central heating systems. 
As a result of higher consumption and 
costs, the average gas and electricity bill 
increased year on year and was made  
up	as	follows:
For a 2012 average annual gas and 
electricity bill of £1,188* the costs are:
External
Wholesale energy £568
Delivery to customer £283
 Environmental and social policies £112
Taxes £72
Internal
Operating costs £104
Profit £49
*  Based on British Gas 2012 financial results and consumption 
and is an average of all payment types/tariffs/regions.
In residential services, we again delivered 
double digit profit growth despite the 
challenging economic climate, primarily 
driven by cost efficiencies, while continued 
high service levels resulted in strong 
customer retention. The weak economy 
and competitive pressures continue to 
have an adverse impact on our business 
energy supply division, and we are 
investing in back office systems to reduce 
cost and enhance customer service. 
The health and safety of our employees 
and customers remains a core priority. Our 
lost	time	injury	frequency	rate	(LTIFR)	was	
0.23	per	100,000	hours	worked	(2011:	
0.29), a 21% reduction over the past year. 
We are also focused on maintaining high 
levels of employee engagement and 
recognising the commitment our people 
make to delivering excellent customer 
service. This was reflected in British Gas 
being nominated in The Sunday Times 
‘Best Big Companies to Work For’ for  
the fourth year in a row. 
Helping our customers in  
difficult times
In February 2013, Ofgem announced that  
it was preparing for final proposals and a 
statutory consultation to be published 
around the end of March 2013 on its 
reforms to make the household energy 
market simpler, clearer and fairer for 
consumers. These follow on from initial 
findings published in March 2011 and 
updated proposals announced in October 
2012. The headline proposals are a welcome 
step forward for the industry. However, it is 
important that the proposals on product 
range, restricting each supplier to four tariff 
types, do not restrict customer choice or 
market innovation. British Gas has already 
implemented changes consistent with 
many of the headline proposals. We have 
simplified our tariffs, including a new 
standing charge and single rate structure 
as part of a commitment to phase out 
two-tier tariffs. We have also been 
publishing price comparison information 
on our annual statements since March, 
allowing customers to check whether they 
are on the most appropriate British Gas 
tariff, while we were awarded five stars  
by Which? in July for clarity of billing  
and account management. More recently, 
we have built the capability to provide  
a personalised price comparison on  
each customer’s bill, based on their  
actual consumption. 
We continued to deliver high levels of 
customer service in 2012. In residential 
energy, our average call answering and 
handling times were lower than in 2011 
while the volume of calls received fell and  
in October, Consumer Focus awarded us 
their top 5 star customer service rating. In 
residential services, our customer service 
metrics remained strong, despite higher 
call volumes as a result of the colder 
weather. Meanwhile complaints fell, and 
customer churn was at its lowest ever level. 
The overall British Gas Net Promoter Score 
(NPS) increased from +26 to +30. 
Ar OUnD 15,000 Of 
oUr CU sto Mers are 
now UsIng ‘r eMote 
heatI ng Control ’
During the year we launched our  
award winning ‘Remote Heating Control’ 
product which allows customers to 
monitor and control their central heating 
system via the internet or a smart phone. 
For our smart meter customers, we also 
launched the ‘Smart Energy Report’ to 
provide visibility of how their energy is 
being used and to help them reduce 
their consumption. 24 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Operating Review
During 2012 we further developed our 
online platform. We now have 3.4 million 
online registered customers, a 20% 
increase since last year, and over a third of 
all energy bills are now sent electronically. 
Seven out of ten customer own meter reads 
are submitted online and we have over one 
million accounts on EnergySmart which 
helps customers monitor and manage their 
energy usage. We have launched leading 
applications for both Apple and Android 
smart phones and have seen more than 
650,000 downloads to date. Around a 
quarter of all website contacts are now 
made through mobile devices. 
We continue to help our most vulnerable 
customers and maintain the widest 
eligibility criteria among all energy suppliers 
for the Warm Home Discount, which 
helped 400,000 customers during the year. 
In October, we announced ‘Better Homes 
for Britain’, a five year partnership with 
Shelter to help one million British households 
living in private rental property improve the 
standard of their homes. We also lead the 
industry in energy efficiency. Since 2008, 
British Gas has installed 1.7 million insulation 
measures to homes across the UK through 
the CERT and CESP programmes. Under 
these schemes, British Gas was required 
to meet a variety of carbon emissions 
reduction targets by 31 December 2012. 
Overall we expect to fulfil our total carbon 
saving targets in the first quarter of 2013, 
although finding customers who qualify  
as being in the ‘Super Priority Group’  
has proved challenging and this particular 
sub-target will not be fully met. However, 
Ofgem has indicated that mitigating actions 
undertaken after 31 December will also be 
taken into account when assessing delivery.
Customer accounts stabilised 
despite competitive market 
conditions
A slight fall in wholesale electricity prices  
at the end of 2011 allowed us to implement 
a 5% reduction in our standard domestic 
electricity tariff in January, re-establishing 
British	Gas	as	the	cheapest	major	
electricity supplier on average in Britain. 
However, like the rest of the industry, we 
are facing higher external costs. Wholesale 
gas prices are 13% higher for winter 
2012/13 than for winter 2011/12, while  
Our competitive pricing position has now 
improved following the implementation of 
price	rises	by	all	major	suppliers	and	we	
have seen a return to growth in the early 
weeks of 2013. We have 5 million customers 
enrolled in the Nectar loyalty programme, 
which reduces our cost to serve and 
improves the customer experience by 
incentivising the use of our online platform, 
including the submission of meter reads 
and payment by direct debit.
The number of residential services  
product holdings fell slightly to 8.4 million 
(2011:	8.5	million),	with	weak	economic	
conditions making sales of new contracts 
challenging. Retention rates improved 
however, with strong levels of customer 
service supporting attractive customer 
propositions. We decided in the second 
half of the year to strengthen our Plumbing 
and Drains product by expanding the 
cover to include the water supply pipe. As 
a result we are no longer selling a separate 
water supply pipe product and our product 
holdings have been restated accordingly. 
The economic environment continued to 
impact boiler installation volumes, which 
fell	10%	to	94,000	(2011:	105,000),	
although operating profit increased as  
we focused on reducing our cost base.  
We continue to develop new affinity 
relationships to enable us to offer energy 
and services products to a wider customer 
base. In July, we signed a broad strategic 
partnership with the RAC covering a 
number of areas, including roadside 
breakdown,	joint	procurement	and	affinity	
marketing, and the first sales were made in 
November. In electric vehicles, we are the 
preferred supplier of home charging 
solutions	for	five	major	car	manufacturers.	
The number of business energy supply 
points fell by 8% over the year, to 924,000 
(2011:	999,000)	due	to	the	challenging	
economic and competitive environment 
which is putting pressure on contract 
renewal rates and margins. However, we 
have recently received the letter of intent to 
award the renewal of a significant 
electricity contract from the Government 
Procurement Service comprising 70,000 
sites for a term of four years. A new 
management team is in place and we 
continue to invest in our back office 
the cost of upgrading the UK’s gas and 
electricity grids and meeting carbon 
reduction targets increased by £50 per 
customer in 2012. As a result, in October 
we announced a rise in domestic gas and 
electricity prices by an average of 6%, 
which was implemented in November.
The number of residential energy  
customer accounts on supply reduced by 
1%	during	the	year,	to	15.7	million	(2011:	
15.9 million). This reflected a short term 
increase in customer churn following the 
implementation of the price rise, although 
churn of 9% over the year was at its lowest 
ever level reflecting good customer service. 
Br It Ish gas C ont InUed
hO w d Id w E m EASu RE u P? BRITISh GAS 
PERfOR m AnCE m EASu RES CAn BE fO und  
AT CEnTRICA .COm/ REPORT2012 25 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Operating Review
customers are now using the product and, 
as part of a bundle, it is also driving higher 
sales conversion of central heating systems. 
For our smart meter customers, we also 
launched the ‘Smart Energy Report’ to 
provide visibility of how their energy is 
being used and to help them reduce 
their consumption. 
We will continue to lead the transition to 
smart connected homes and businesses, 
offering attractive propositions, which will 
improve customer engagement and deliver 
lower costs for the business.
Innovate to drive growth and 
service excellence
Performance in 2012 in a challenging 
economic and competitive environment 
has demonstrated that our business model 
remains sound. In residential energy 
supply it will be increasingly important to 
differentiate our offering through service 
excellence and innovation. Our scale and 
leadership in customer service, cost 
efficiency and systems leave us well 
placed to continue to deliver a fair level  
of margin in this business. In residential 
services, our focus remains on offering 
attractive customer propositions and 
delivering service excellence, while also 
working to reduce costs further during 
2013. We expect to deliver continued  
profit growth in services, although not  
at the high levels achieved in 2012. In 
business energy supply, the environment 
remains challenging. We are investing in 
our back office systems to reduce costs 
and improve service and, over time, we 
expect business services to make a more 
material contribution. Looking to the future, 
smart meters are a key enabler in the  
trend towards the ‘smart connected 
home’. British Gas’ leadership in smart 
metering and technology will enable us  
to capitalise on this trend, deepening 
customer relationships and differentiating 
our energy and services offer to drive 
long-term growth.
systems to reduce costs, sharpen our 
competitive position and enhance our 
customer service. In business services  
we have made good progress. We have 
now been selected as preferred contractor 
on seven multi-year energy performance 
contracts with public sector organisations 
and have a strong pipeline for the 
year ahead.
More normal weather and cost 
reduction programme driving 
profit growth
After an unseasonally warm 2011, total 
British Gas gross revenue increased to 
£13,857	million	(2011:	£12,403	million)	
reflecting higher gas sales volumes. Total 
British Gas operating profit increased to 
£1,093	million	(2011:	£1,005	million).	We	
continue to make good progress on our 
cost reduction programme and are on 
track to deliver £300 million of cost savings 
across British Gas by the end of 2013.  
We are seeing the benefit of previous 
investment in industry-leading IT systems 
and have achieved savings through a 
range of initiatives, including a pay freeze 
for employees and changes to the defined 
benefit pension schemes. During 2012,  
we closed our Southampton call centre, 
outsourced a number of roles in British 
Gas Services and British Gas Business, 
reduced IT costs through new working 
practices, offshored and transitioned to 
new data centres and agreed improved 
commercial terms with suppliers. As a 
result, including the impact of investment  
in growth areas, operating costs were 1% 
lower in 2012 than in the prior period and, 
despite the weak economy, the bad debt 
charge as a proportion of revenue fell as 
the benefits of improved systems and 
processes were realised.
In residential energy, gross revenue 
increased	to	£9,121	million	(2011:	£7 ,930	
million) reflecting higher consumption and 
retail tariffs. After a warm 2011, cooler 
weather in 2012 saw average domestic 
gas consumption increase by 12%, more 
than offsetting underlying energy efficiency 
reductions. Average electricity consumption 
was broadly flat compared to 2011. 
Residential energy operating profit 
increased	to	£606	million	(2011:	£544	
million). Commodity and transportation 
and distribution costs both increased, 
while environmental costs rose by 22% to 
£732	million	(2011:	£599	million).	The	
residential energy operating margin was 
6.6%	(2011:	6.9%),	in	line	with	our	through-
cycle expectations. 
In residential services, gross revenue 
increased	slightly	to	£1,674	million	(2011:	
£1,644 million) with a rise in revenue from 
insulation	jobs	more	than	offsetting	a	
decline in installations revenue. Operating 
profit increased by 16% to £312 million 
(2011:	£269	million),	while	the	operating	
margin	increased	to	18.6%	(2011:	16.4%)	
driven by cost efficiencies and an improved 
contribution from our new markets activity.
In business energy supply and services, 
gross revenue increased to £3,062 million 
(2011:	£2,829	million)	with	operating	profit	
falling	by	9%	to	£175	million	(2011:	£192	
million), reflecting the challenging external 
environment. Business services revenue 
increased by 12% compared to 2011.
Leading the transition to smart 
connected homes and businesses
We continue to lead the industry in smart 
metering and have now installed over 
800,000 smart meters in homes and 
businesses. We welcomed the 
Government’s confirmation of the 
standards for the smart meter roll-out and 
we are the only supplier currently installing 
fully compliant Phase 3 meters in 
customers’ homes. Smart meters are a 
key enabler for a range of technologies 
and by going early on the roll-out we have 
gained invaluable experience. We are also 
starting to see the benefit of smart meters 
delivering an enhanced customer 
experience, including significantly lower 
contact rates, fewer complaints and higher 
retention. We have made a number of 
investments in smart technology 
companies, including AlertMe, which 
enables a range of home automation 
applications and Power Plus 
Communications, which specialises in 
smart applications in complex buildings. 
During the year we launched our award 
winning ‘Remote Heating Control’ product 
which allows customers to monitor and 
control their central heating system via the 
internet or a smart phone. Around 15,000  26 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Operating Review
Centr ICa energy
For the year ended 31 December 2012 2011
Adjusted operating profit
‡
 (£m)
Gas 919 769
Power 311 254
Gas and power
Gas production (mmth) 2,441 2,160
Liquids production (mmboe) 16.3 12.5
Proven and probable reserves (mmboe) 525 410
Power generated (TWh) 21.5 26.7
Adjusted operating profit
‡
£m
Mark Hanafin
Managing Director, Centrica Energy
“   t he gas M arket I s BeCoMIng 
InCreas Ingly gloB al. we a IM  
to BUI ld an I ntegrated 
Internat Ional BU sIness foCU sed 
on the atlantIC Bas In. ”
2012 saw Centrica 
energy make significant 
steps in delivering 
growth and value in its 
upstream gas and oil, 
power generation and 
midstream businesses.
In upstream gas and oil, we added 
170mmboe	to	our	reserves.	The	majority	
of these were added in Norway, helping 
to treble the size of our reserve base in 
this important region for growth. We also 
deepened our involvement in Norway by 
extending our Memorandum of 
Understanding with Statoil, enabling us 
to continue working together on gas 
exploration opportunities in Norway  
and the UK. This announcement was 
welcomed by the Prime Minister as  
helping to forge a strategically important 
relationship between the two nations. 
The £1.4 billion development of the Cygnus 
field, the biggest gas discovery in the 
Southern North Sea for a quarter of a 
century, is now underway. Cygnus is 
expected	to	create	around	4,000	jobs	in	
the development phase, underlining the 
importance of the energy sector for UK 
economic growth. In other UK North Sea 
projects,	we	achieved	first	gas	at	the	
Ensign and Seven Seas fields in 2012.
2012 also saw important developments in 
offshore wind. We received planning 
consent for 580MW at the Race Bank 
wind farm to be built off the Lincolnshire 
coast − close to our 270MW Lincs 
development. Lincs achieved first power 
and is due for completion in 2013. The 
continued development in renewables 
and a strong operating performance by 
the nuclear fleet delivered significant 
value for the Group and helped to offset 
the challenging conditions currently 
facing our gas-fired generation fleet. 
Health, safety and environmental  
issues remain a core priority and  
we have continued to focus on the 
management	of	our	major	accident	
hazards. We have been progressively 
improving competence, reporting  
and accountability to ensure we  
are effectively managing process  
safety controls.
Despite the difficult external conditions in 
2012, Centrica Energy is well positioned 
to deliver growth and value across its 
portfolio.
663
881
525
771
1,023
1,230
2008 2007 2012 2011 2010 2009
‡ From continuing operations 27 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Operating Review
A more balanced upstream 
business
Centrica Energy made significant progress 
during 2012 on its strategy to deliver value 
and growth. In upstream gas and oil, we 
integrated three North Sea acquisitions  
in 2012. This delivered a step change for 
the business, increasing production and 
significantly enhancing the scale and 
balance of our portfolio. In power, although 
the operating environment for gas-fired 
generation remains challenging, the 
business benefited from strong nuclear 
operational performance.
We have achieved a number of key  
project	milestones,	bringing	reserves	into	
production and generating first power from 
our	270MW	Lincs	offshore	wind	project.	
We have also made important steps to 
develop future cornerstone assets, with 
good progress at the Valemon gas field 
and the sanctioning of the £1.4 billion 
Cygnus gas field, one of the largest 
remaining development opportunities  
in the UK North Sea.
Total Centrica Energy operating profit 
increased	by	20%	to	£1,230	million	(2011:	
£1,023 million) with increased profit in both 
gas and power. This increase in profit was 
in part helped by the delivery of a series of 
cost initiatives in 2012 and the business is 
on track to deliver its contribution of cost 
savings to Group targets. These savings 
have not compromised on our continued 
focus on health, safety and environmental 
practices. Centrica Energy continues to 
progress its process safety programme, 
which focuses on the integrity of operating 
systems and processes that handle 
hazardous substances. We had no 
significant process safety events in 2012.  
In terms of environmental practices, we are 
committed to operating responsibly and 
will continue to engage with stakeholders, to 
understand and manage the environmental 
and social issues associated with new and 
existing investments.
Increased gas and oil reserves 
and production
Between November 2011 and February 
2012 we announced three North Sea 
acquisitions, all of which completed during 
2012, for a total of £1.2 billion. Overall, we 
added 170 million barrels of oil equivalent 
(mmboe) of 2P reserves in the year, as a 
result of acquisitions, upgrades of existing 
hubs	such	as	Rhyl	and	bringing	new	projects	
such as Maria into the development pipeline. 
After taking production into account, we 
ended the year at 525mmboe of 2P reserves 
(201 1:	410mmboe).	Our	Norwegian	business	
now forms a significant part of the portfolio 
following the acquisitions, accounting for 
41% of our upstream gas and oil reserves, 
compared to 18% at the end of 2011.
during 2012, and with new fields coming 
into production offsetting the natural 
decline from our existing fields, total 
production volumes are expected to 
increase by a further 15%. 
Adding value through gas and  
oil development, appraisal  
and exploration
We achieved first gas at Seven Seas and 
Atla in the second half of the year, following 
on from Ensign having delivered first gas in 
May. At Ensign we have now also delivered 
production from the second well, however 
due to mechanical issues the initial 
production rate is below our original 
expectations. First gas is expected from 
York and Rhyl in the coming weeks, with 
first gas from Kew scheduled for the fourth 
quarter of 2013. Good progress continues 
to be made on the Statoil-operated Valemon 
project	with	the	detailed	design	having	 
been agreed towards the end of 2012 and 
fabrication having started early in 2013.  
The field is on track to produce first gas  
in the fourth quarter of 2014. 
In August we announced that the £1.4 billion 
Cygnus	project,	in	which	we	own	a	48.75%	
interest, had been sanctioned. Key contracts 
have now been placed and the fabrication 
of	the	jacket	and	platform	deck	started	
ahead of schedule. The development will 
create	around	4,000	jobs,	mostly	in	the	 
UK and bring 53mmboe of our reserves 
into production from late 2015, providing 
enough gas at peak production to supply 
1.5 million homes.
In Trinidad and Tobago, we made further 
progress	on	the	Block	22	project	with	the	
award of front end engineering design 
contracts for upstream and subsea 
facilities as well as the contracting of a rig 
to drill two appraisal wells to prove up our 
resource base. We continue to explore 
development and partnership options  
for gas export.
Our appraisal drilling at Rhyl North towards 
the end of 2012 was successful, and led  
to our 2P reserves being revised upwards 
by 7mmboe to 14mmboe. In early 2013, 
exploration drilling at Whitehaven confirmed 
that the Rhyl reservoir extends further than 
originally anticipated, potentially leading to 
Total production of gas and liquids 
increased	by	18%	to	56.7mmboe	(2011:	
48.2mmboe). Total gas production volumes 
increased by 13% to 2,441 million therms 
(mmth)	(2011:	2,160mmth)	and	total	liquids	
volumes increased by 30% to 16.3mmboe 
(2011:	12.5mmboe),	reflecting	the	benefit	of	
recent acquisitions. We now have less 
reliance on production from Morecambe, 
which in 2012 contributed 23% of total 
production	(2011:	29%)	primarily	due	to	
increases from the rest of the portfolio. 
Performance from South Morecambe 
improved in the second half of the year, 
after we took action to stabilise the quality 
of gas delivered to the grid during the 
field’s maintenance shut-down in the 
summer. Gas production volumes from 
Norway more than trebled to 557mmth 
(2011:	164mmth)	while	liquids	volumes	
increased	to	8.9mmboe	(2011:	4.7mmboe),	
reflecting acquisitions during the year. 
In 2013 we will benefit from a full year of 
production from the acquisitions made  28 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Operating Review
t he Uk and n orway will  
remain an important part of  
our investment and activity
additional reserve upgrades. Rhyl and 
Whitehaven will both utilise our existing 
Morecambe infrastructure. Appraisal drilling 
at the non-operated Maria North well, in 
which we own a 20% interest, showed 
potential gross recoverable reserves of the 
Maria field towards the upper end of the 
70-150mmboe range published following 
the discovery in 2010. Accordingly we have 
revised our 2P reserves up by 10mmboe  
to 25mmboe. Appraisal drilling at Bligh  
and exploration drilling at Cooper both 
encountered hydrocarbons, but tight 
reservoirs meant that commercial flow rates 
were not achieved. We also experienced 
non-operated exploration failures in 
Trinidad and Tobago. However in early 
2013 drilling at the Rodriguez prospect in 
Norway was successful, confirming the 
presence of gas condensate.
In June, we extended our Memorandum  
of Understanding (MoU) with Statoil to 
collaborate on gas-focused exploration 
opportunities in Norway and the UK. In 
October, the UKCS 27th Round awarded 
Centrica six licenses covering 13 blocks 
and part-blocks. Three of the blocks will  
be Centrica-operated, two of which are in 
the West of Shetland, a new area for the 
Company. Early in 2013 we were awarded 
nine blocks in the latest round of licences 
announced by Norway’s Energy Ministry. 
We will be the operator of three of these 
blocks, which are close to some of our 
existing assets. Our exploration record 
over the last three years has been good, 
with a success rate of 40% and a net 
finding cost of £3.5 per barrel of oil 
equivalent (boe). 
original investment in the nuclear fleet. In 
addition, plant life extensions to the Hinkley 
Point B and Hunterston B nuclear power 
stations were announced in December, 
extending the life of these stations by 
seven years from 2016 to 2023. The 
expectation for nuclear plant life extensions 
for the AGR fleet in the UK is now for seven 
years on average, compared to the five 
years previously assumed, and this will 
deliver additional long-term value. 
The market environment remains challenging 
for gas-fired plant with continued low 
market clean spark spreads. Reliability 
remained	high	at	97%	(2011:	98%),	however	
generation volumes fell by 40% to 9.0TWh 
(2011:	15.0TWh),	with	an	average	load	
factor	of	26%	(2011:	35%).	The	market	
conditions led to the mothballing of our 
325MW King’s Lynn power plant at the 
beginning of the year and we have now 
also withdrawn our 229MW Roosecote 
power station from service. Our plants at 
Barry and Brigg continue to operate in the 
STOR market, with contracts in place until 
the end of the first quarter of 2013 while our 
Peterborough plant has a contract which 
will commence in April 2013. Against this 
difficult market environment, we have been 
successful in minimising our costs and 
running the plants as efficiently as possible, 
with high levels of availability enabling running 
at peak times. In February 2013, we 
sanctioned a turbine blade upgrade at our 
1.2GW South Humber power station, which 
will improve the efficiency of the plant.
Availability in our wind assets was 88% 
(2011:	92%),	reflecting	an	outage	at	Inner	
Dowsing in the first quarter, with generated 
volumes down 11% to 533 gigawatt hours 
Centr ICa energy C ont InUed
Higher gas and oil volumes and 
achieved prices with reduced 
unit costs 
Upstream gas and oil profitability increased 
by	20%	to	£919	million	(2011:	£769	million),	
reflecting higher production volumes and 
higher achieved prices. The average 
achieved gas sales price increased 
by 6% to 54.7 pence per therm (p/th) 
(2011:	51.6p/th)	while	the	average	achieved	
oil and condensate price increased by 10% 
to	£62.8	per	boe	(2011:	£57.2/boe).	On	a	 
per unit of production basis, depletion, 
depreciation and amortisation (DDA) costs 
and lifting costs both decreased slightly,  
to	£9.8/boe	(2011:	£10.1/boe)	and	£9.7/boe	
(2011:	£9.9/boe)	respectively,	with	recent	
acquisitions incurring lower unit lifting costs. 
Overall production and overhead costs 
increased by 22% to £1,374 million 
(2011:	£1,127	million)	due	to	the	impact	of	
the North Sea acquisitions, new gas and 
oil fields coming into production, the 
expensing of a £73 million cost relating to 
the failure of a third development well at 
Ensign and inflationary cost increases. 
In addition we incurred exploration 
and appraisal costs of £139 million 
(2011:	£97	million),	reflecting	a	lower 
level of drilling success. 
Continued strong performance 
from nuclear; challenging market 
conditions for CCGTs 
The nuclear fleet recorded strong 
performance during the year, with our 20% 
share of output increasing by 8% to 12.0 
terawatt	hours	(TWh)	(2011:	11.2TWh).	This	
reflects continued investment in the fleet, 
with no large unplanned outages during 
the year, underlining the quality of our 
hO w d Id w E m EASu RE u P? CEn TRICA En ERGy 
PERfOR m AnCE m EASu RES CAn BE fO und  
AT CEnTRICA .COm/ REPORT2012 29 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Operating Review
(GWh)	(2011:	596GWh).	The	load	factor	
was	32%	(2011:	36%).	
Power profitability increased by 22% to 
£311	million	(2011:	£254	million).	Nuclear	
profitability increased, benefiting from a 
higher achieved average price of £49.6/
MWh	(2011:	£48.5/MWh),	reflecting	some	
benefit from forward hedging, as well as  
the strong operational performance. Wind 
profitability also increased, with the sale of 
50% of our Round 3 wind farm interest to 
Dong, in line with our established business 
model to partner on offshore wind, resulting 
in a net profit of £32 million after taking into 
account a charge relating to the refusal of 
consent	at	our	Docking	Shoal	project.	Our	
CCGT fleet made a small loss in 2012, the 
last year of free carbon allowances, 
reflecting the weak market conditions.
Investing for value in power
In	offshore	wind,	our	270MW	Lincs	project	
has now generated first power and is 
expected to be fully operational in the 
second half of 2013. We have invested 
over £3 million in a new operations base  
at Grimsby docks to serve Lincs and other 
potential Centrica Energy wind farm 
developments, a substantial investment  
in the local area.
We continue to progress towards a final 
investment decision on the Race Bank 
project,	which	is	consented	for	580MW.	
We are willing to commit £200 million for 
the	project,	and	are	in	discussion	with	 
a financial partner and the Government 
concerning the economic framework. 
During	2012	we	also	established	a	joint	
venture with Dong Energy to co-develop 
the Round 3 Irish Sea wind farm zone. 
Formal consultation and a programme of 
stakeholder engagement was undertaken 
throughout the year. A final investment 
decision	is	expected	on	the	first	project	 
in	2016,	subject	to	returns	being	
suitably attractive.
In February 2013 we announced that  
we would not be exercising our option to 
participate in UK nuclear new build, taking 
into account the lengthening time frame  
for	a	return	on	capital	invested	in	a	project	
of this scale. The decision follows detailed 
appraisal	of	the	project,	with	pre-
development expenditure approaching  
the agreed £1 billion cap; accordingly 
Centrica’s	share	of	project	costs	have	
been written off, with the Group recording 
a total impairment of £231 million.
We have also decided not to proceed with 
planning applications to develop dedicated 
biomass power stations at Roosecote  
and Brigg, with recent clarification on the 
regulatory framework indicating a preference 
for co-firing and coal conversion. As the 
market becomes increasingly dependent 
on fixed price support mechanisms, we 
will leverage our competencies, investing 
only where we see value. 
Integrate our natural gas business, 
linked to our core markets
The gas market is becoming increasingly 
global. We have made progress in 
diversifying our sources of gas, including 
agreements to import pipeline gas from 
Norway and LNG from Qatar through our 
regasification capacity at the Isle of Grain. 
We are looking to secure gas increasingly 
from a wider range of sources, expanding 
the scope of our activities where 
appropriate. Our aim is to connect sources 
of energy to our customers, building an 
integrated international business focused 
on the Atlantic basin.
The UK and Norway will remain an 
important part of our investment and 
activity, as we look to maintain an 
appropriate energy hedge. We have a 
number	of	large	scale	projects	ongoing,	
including Cygnus and Valemon, and we 
retain a number of attractive potential 
development opportunities, particularly  
in Norway, including at Butch where 
appraisal drilling is planned in late 2013. 
Decisions are targeted during 2013 on 
further infill drilling opportunities in the  
East Irish Sea and North Sea. However, 
with UK North Sea developments 
becoming smaller in scale and relatively 
more expensive, we will increasingly look 
to diversify our production portfolio, linked 
to our core markets. This is likely to include 
further investment in North America, 
possibly in shale gas, and there is also the 
potential for gas exports later in the decade. 
We will invest where we see value across 
our international portfolio, delivering annual 
production in the range 75mmboe to 
100mmboe. In midstream, we have 
significant capabilities and presence in 
European and North American gas 
markets where we have important strategic 
participation in pipeline capacity, 
regasification capacity and gas storage. 
We will also look to develop our asset-
based midstream trading and optimisation 
business over time, with an emerging 
presence in LNG. However we will invest 
only where we see value, with rewards 
commensurate with the scale of 
investment and associated risks.  30 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Operating Review
I am pleased to report 
that Centrica storage 
achieved higher profits 
from our r ough gas 
storage facility in 2012 
than in 2011. 
Early in 2012 we benefited from the 
widening spreads between summer and 
winter gas prices which are a key driver 
of storage revenue. However, at this level 
the prices still remain below that needed 
to invest in new storage and that’s  
why	our	Baird	and	Caythorpe	projects	
have remained under review with no 
major	physical	works	undertaken	 
during the year.
We do, however, remain convinced that 
the UK will require more gas storage 
capacity in the future and therefore have 
continued to engage with various 
stakeholders, including the UK 
Government, on ways to support the 
investment needed. The Government’s 
Energy Bill and Gas Generation Strategy 
have confirmed a clear and continuing role 
for gas in the UK’s medium to long-term 
energy mix and we believe, reinforces the 
need for increased levels of seasonal gas 
storage in the UK. We are particularly 
encouraged by the commitment of the 
Department of Energy & Climate Change 
(DECC) to publish a review of the need for 
storage support in the first half of 2013.
In the meantime we have continued to 
focus on strengthening the existing 
business by concentrating on our 
underlying business performance, 
processes and our overall efficiency.
At Centrica Storage ‘Do Everything 
Safely’ is one of our core priorities and  
I am encouraged that 2012 has been 
another strong year in terms of our 
safety record. I am particularly pleased 
that in September we passed three 
years without a single lost time incident 
right across the business. This was 
particularly challenging in 2012 as 
significant work was undertaken at  
our Easington Terminal, to build the 
reception and processing facilities for 
gas coming from Centrica Energy’s York 
offshore field.
The first cold spell of the 2012 winter, in 
early December, saw our Rough storage 
facility once again withdrawing at full 
rates, demonstrating our key role within 
the Centrica Group’s integrated energy 
business and also the vital contribution 
we make to the security of energy 
supplies for the UK.
For the year ended 31 December 2012 2011
Average SBU price (pence) 31.0 30.0
Gross revenue (£m) 202 184
Adjusted	operating	profit
‡
 (£m) 89 75
Adjusted operating profit
‡
£m
Centr ICa storage
Grant Dawson
Chairman, Centrica Storage
“   Centr ICa s torage plays a key role 
wIth In the g ro Up’s Integrated 
energy BU sIness and M akes a v Ital 
Contr IBUt Ion to the se CUr Ity of 
energy s Uppl Ies for the U k. ”
240
195
168 169
75
89
2008 2007 2012 2011 2010 2009
‡ From continuing operations 31 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Operating Review
Strong performance in a 
challenging market environment 
Centrica Storage performed well in 2012, 
with strong commercial performance 
securing the benefits of higher summer/
winter price differentials seen in the first 
half of the 2012/13 storage year. The Rough 
asset achieved reliability of 92% in the year 
(2011:	96%),	with	performance	in	the	first	
half similar to that experienced in the  
first half of 2011 but with the second half 
impacted by a small number of production 
outages. These outages had limited 
commercial impact and across the year 
asset availability was good when required 
to meet customer demand.
The high level of stock carry-over into 2012 
combined with modest withdrawal in the 
first quarter of the year meant that the Net 
Reservoir Volume (NRV) was at relatively 
high levels again going into the 2012 
injection	season.	A	strong	injection	season	
over the summer was followed by the final 
quarter of 2012 experiencing withdrawals 
more in line with seasonal normal levels. 
As a result the NRV level carried into 2013 
was above the five year average level but 
below the level at the start of 2012. 
Health and safety remains one of our core 
priorities; this relentless focus has enabled 
the business to continue its strong record 
through 2012, with no lost time incidents 
recorded for more than three years, 
corresponding to over 5 million man hours 
of work without an incident.
Forward seasonal spreads have 
narrowed since the first quarter
The business saw higher summer/winter 
price differentials in the final quarter of 
2011 and the first quarter of 2012 
compared to the first quarter of 2011, 
which resulted in an achieved 2012/13 
storage year Standard Bundled Unit (SBU) 
price	of	33.9	pence	(2011/12:	25.2	pence).	
However, price differentials subsequently 
narrowed, reflecting colder than normal 
weather in the summer months and an 
expectation of LNG availability for the 
winter. Forward spreads remain relatively 
narrow for the 2013/14 storage year, with 
price volatility remaining at subdued levels.
Improved operating profit
Gross revenue increased by 10% in 2012 
to	£202	million	(2011:	£184	million).	This	
reflects the higher summer/winter price 
differentials and benefits from the high 
NRV carried into 2012. SBU revenue was 
4% higher in 2012 with the calendar year 
SBU price increasing to 31.0 pence  
(2011:	30.0	pence).	Operating	profit	
increased	by	19%	to	£89	million	(2011:	£75	
million) benefiting from higher revenue and 
strong cost control, partially offset by 
inflationary pressures and additional 
depreciation resulting from previous 
investment in Rough. From 2013 the 
business will benefit from additional 
revenue streams associated with gas 
processing and condensate sales at the 
newly constructed York processing plant.
Challenging economics for new 
projects
We retain the option to invest in our Baird 
and	Caythorpe	gas	storage	projects.	
However, the continuing relatively low 
levels of summer/winter price differentials 
and reduced price volatility, combined with 
an uncertain longer term outlook, mean 
that market conditions remain challenging 
for these opportunities. With the country 
becoming increasingly dependent on 
imported gas we believe that more 
seasonal storage is required in the UK. 
However	we	will	only	invest	in	new	projects	
if the returns are appropriate for the level of 
risk undertaken. We may require a support 
mechanism to underpin the investment 
and welcomed the announcement by 
DECC in December that it is planning to 
carry out further investigation into possible 
intervention mechanisms to encourage 
new storage investment. We look forward 
to the outcome of this review, with initial 
findings expected in spring of 2013. 
health and safety 
re MaIns one of o Ur 
COr E Pri Orit iES; thi S 
relentless foCU s 
has enaB led the 
BUsIness to 
ContI nUe Its strong 
re Cord thro Ugh 
2012, with n O LOSt 
t IMe InCIdents 
re Corded for More 
than three years.
hO w d Id w E m EASu RE u P? CEn TRICA  
STORAGE PERfOR m AnCE m EASu RES CAn  
BE f Ound AT CE n TRICA.COm/ REPORT2012 32 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Operating Review
leading prepaid product and flexible 
time-of-use offerings enabled by smart 
technology and we plan to expand this 
product range.
By operating across the entire energy 
value chain, from sourcing to supply,  
we create stability and value for our 
customers. As North America’s 
importance grows with an increasingly 
global gas market, we will continue to 
pursue value-creating opportunities that 
enhance our existing portfolio of natural 
gas production, power generation and 
wholesale and retail energy services.
Our values of being simple, friendly and 
direct remain at the heart of our approach 
to customers as we strive to offer products 
and services that make a difference in 
people’s lives.
our focus for the year 
ahead is to make 
progress against our 
strategic priorities as  
we position ourselves  
to meet the energy and 
services needs of 
customers now and  
in the future.
We continue to build an integrated North 
American business with leading 
positions in competitive markets and are 
investing for growth across the four lines 
of business. We will also maintain our 
focus on cost reduction and seek 
efficiencies from increased scale across 
our operations, while remaining solidly 
committed to deepening customer 
relationships by delivering innovative 
products and services.
Strong organic growth and acquisitions 
have positioned Direct Energy as one  
of North America’s largest energy and 
energy-related services providers. We will 
continue to focus investment in markets 
that provide an environment conducive  
to retail competition and the consumer 
benefits that come from having a choice  
of providers – particularly in the competitive 
retail markets in Texas and in the US 
North East. 
We see continued progress and opportunity 
for innovation and differentiation through 
smart meter technologies, demand 
response and energy efficiency related 
products and services. Customers are 
responding favourably to our industry-
For the year ended 31 December 2012 2011
Adjusted	operating	profit
‡
 (£m) 331 312
Residential energy and services accounts  
(year end, ’000) 5,856 5,647
Business energy electricity volumes (TWh) 51.4 46.4
Total net proven and probable reserves  
(mmboe) 108 109
Adjusted operating profit
‡
£m
dIre Ct energy
Chris Weston
Managing Director, Direct Energy
“  we have BUI lt a good platfor M 
for growth I n n orth aM er ICa, 
wIth strong C apa BIl It Ies In energy 
so Ur CIng and s Upply, r Isk 
ManageM ent, energy serv ICes  
and U pstreaM gas and power. ”
187
215
153
234
312
331
2008 2007 2012 2011 2010 2009
‡ From continuing operations 33 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Operating Review
Further profit growth in a low gas 
price environment
Direct Energy delivered another strong 
performance in 2012, in a low gas price 
environment. Gross revenue decreased by 
2%	to	£6,015	million	(2011:	£6,117	million)	
but operating profit increased by 6% to 
£331	million	(2011:	£312	million).	There	was	
no material impact resulting from currency 
movements during the year. 
The business has benefited from organic 
customer growth in the US North East  
and the small business customer segment, 
and from the successful integration of 
recent acquisitions. We also continue to 
drive operational efficiencies throughout 
the business, and the move of our North 
American headquarters to Houston, 
combined with overall headcount reductions, 
has delivered significant benefits. We will 
continue to drive efficiencies, with further 
rationalisation of IT resources due to be 
undertaken in 2013. The health and safety 
of our employees and customers continues 
to be one of our core priorities. The LTIFR 
reduced by 45% to 0.11 per 100,000 hours 
worked	(2011:	0.20)	and	we	had	no	
significant process safety events in 2012.
Benefiting from enhanced scale  
in residential energy supply
Direct Energy Residential made good 
progress during the year, with organic 
customer growth in the US North East,  
the successful integration of recent 
acquisitions and strong increased customer 
satisfaction levels across the business. 
Overall customer accounts increased to 
3.5	million	(2011:	3.4	million)	despite	
incurring further customer losses as a 
result of the regulatory environment in 
Ontario. Gross revenue decreased by 2% 
to	£2,357	million	(2011:	£2,416	million),	
while operating profit was broadly flat at 
£156	million	(2011:	£161	million)	reflecting	
the decline in the Ontario business, offset 
by the positive impacts of customer growth 
and acquisitions in the US. We are also 
seeing the benefits from operational 
efficiencies and billing system rationalisation, 
with increased scale in the US North East. 
In the US North East, our business is 
materially larger following the integration  
of Gateway and Vectren Source, both 
acquired in 2011, and the acquisition of  
a further 207 ,000 residential and 38,000 
small business accounts from New York 
based energy retailers Energetix and 
NYSEG Solutions from Iberdrola USA, 
completed in August. The business also 
experienced organic growth in 2012 due  
to strong sales performance, despite the 
expected roll-off of low margin aggregation 
customers acquired as part of the Vectren 
Source acquisition. We now have 1.4 million 
customers in the region, up from 1.1 million 
at the end of 2011.
Our Texas residential business is also 
benefiting from increased scale, following 
the First Choice Power acquisition in 2011. 
Our prepaid ‘Power to Go’ product 
continues to attract customers, as well as 
being viewed positively by regulators, who 
welcome the expansion of choice for all 
customer groups. In October, we launched 
a 100% renewable tariff, providing 
environmentally conscious customers  
with wind power from Texas. 
We delivered good sales performance in 
the US during the year, underpinned by a 
continued focus on channel efficiency, 
while our consolidated billing platform has 
helped reduce costs and bad debt. Churn 
reduction continues to remain a focus both 
in Texas and the US North East. 
We no longer view our residential energy 
supply business in Ontario as core, 
following the implementation of the Energy 
Consumer Protection Act (ECPA), which 
makes it difficult to sell to new customers 
or retain existing ones. We continue to 
actively manage the decline of our customer 
base and have more than halved operating 
costs since 2010 through aggressive cost 
management. In total we lost 95,000 
customer accounts in Ontario during 2012 
and	now	have	just	over	200,000	customers	
in the region, around half the amount we 
had at the end of 2010. In 2012, Ontario 
contributed less than 20% of our residential 
energy operating profit and this is expected 
to fall to around 5% in 2013. In Alberta, 
profitability rose, with increases in regulated 
rates leading to higher churn levels in the 
we expe Ct o Ur 
downstrea M 
BUsIness to B eCoMe 
a More M ater Ial 
part of the g ro Up 
over the next three 
to f Ive years.
We will continue to look for 
opportunities to grow our business 
across North America by focusing on 
growing organically and through our 
successful bolt-on acquisition strategy, 
delivering scale and synergies. 34 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Operating Review
low margin regulated business and  
growth in the higher margin competitive 
customer base.
Focus on small businesses 
leading to volume growth in 
business energy supply
Direct Energy Business again delivered 
strong growth in the year, in a highly 
competitive market. Electricity volumes 
rose	11%	to	51.4TWh	(2011:	46.4TWh),	
while gas volumes increased by 11% to 
793mmth	(2011:	714mmth).	Higher	volumes	
in the small commercial business sector 
are driving much of the growth, and profit 
in this sector nearly doubled in 2012, 
reflecting strong sales and scale benefits 
resulting from recent acquisitions. The 
larger commercial segment is increasingly 
competitive, however our retention rates 
remain high in this sector. 
Gross revenue in business energy supply 
decreased	by	2%	to	£2,690	million	(2011:	
£2,748 million), with the impact of lower 
commodity prices more than offsetting 
volume growth. Operating profit increased 
to	£129	million	(2011:	£110	million)	while	
operating	margin	increased	to	4.8%	(2011:	
4.0%), reflecting the positive impact of 
operational efficiencies and a higher 
proportion of small business customers.
Strengthening the services 
platform
Direct Energy Services is performing well, 
gaining market share in a challenging 
economic environment, with many of our 
competitors experiencing losses or credit 
downgrades. Our nationwide on-demand 
franchise has provided scale advantages, 
while the acquisition of Home Warranty  
of America (HWA), completed in March, 
provides the necessary licences to offer 
protection plan products across the  
United States. The number of contract 
relationships increased by 5% during 2012, 
mainly reflecting the HWA acquisition. 
Our Canadian business was impacted  
by warmer than normal weather and 
industrial action by a number of our 
unionised technicians in the first half of  
the year. The labour issues have now  
been resolved, resulting in a significant 
improvement to our cost base and more 
flexible working arrangements, improving 
our service to customers. 
Continued weak economic conditions,  
low consumer confidence and a slow 
housing market have impacted underlying 
growth in the US services business, 
leading to less lead generation and 
reduced demand for home services 
products. However we continue to focus 
on delivering high levels of customer 
satisfaction and our overall Net Promoter 
Score	increased	to	+39	(2011:	+28).
Gross revenue increased by 2% to £532 
million	(2011:	£520	million)	and	operating	
profit	increased	to	£33	million	(2011:	£28	
million), with operational efficiencies and 
cost control driving much of this growth.
Solid upstream and wholesale 
performance in a low price 
environment
Direct Energy Upstream continues to  
face a low wholesale price environment, 
although the Henry Hub natural gas price 
recovered slightly during the second half  
of the year from the record low levels seen 
dIre Ct energy C ont InUed
our values of being simple,  
friendly and direct remain at  
the heart of our approach
hO w d Id w E m EASu RE u P? d IRECT En ERGy 
PERfOR m AnCE m EASu RES CAn BE fO und  
AT CEnTRICA .COm/ REPORT2012 35 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Operating Review
in the first half. Alberta gas production 
volumes	fell	by	3%	to	549mmth	(2011:	
567mmth), with the achieved gas price 
falling	to	C$3.8/MCF	(2011:	C$4.6/MCF).	
The price of liquids remains relatively  
high however, and the acquisition of  
the Carrot Creek assets, completed  
in January, meant that oil and liquids 
production volumes nearly doubled to 
1.1mmboe	(2011:	0.7mmboe).	We	added	
10mmboe of reserves in North America 
over the year meaning that after taking 
account of production, 2P reserves 
remained broadly flat at 108mmboe  
(2011:	109mmboe).
Texas power generation volumes increased 
by	21%	to	6,336GWh	(2011:	5,247GWh),	
with good asset availability and optimisation 
performance. Texas experienced more 
normal weather conditions during the 
summer months, meaning that spikes  
in power prices were less extreme than  
in the exceptional conditions in 2011.
Overall, upstream and wholesale gross 
revenue	was	£436	million	(2011:	£433	
million) while operating profit was flat at 
£13	million	(2011:	£13	million).
Well placed to further grow and 
develop our North American 
business
We have built a good platform for growth 
in North America, with strong capabilities 
in energy sourcing and supply, risk 
management, energy services and 
upstream gas and power. In 2013, we 
should continue to benefit from recent 
residential acquisitions, with integration 
now mostly complete, while we have 
created a more efficient operating base  
in both energy and services. Upstream, 
natural gas prices continue to be 
constrained by the impact of shale but 
production expansion opportunities are 
available and we will pursue them if value 
can be created. 
We continue to look for opportunities to 
grow our business across North America. 
Downstream, we will continue to focus on 
growing organically, through churn 
reduction and differentiation. We will also 
continue with our successful bolt-on 
acquisition strategy, delivering scale and 
synergies, and will consider larger 
opportunities where appropriate. Over the 
next three to five years we are targeting a 
doubling in profitability of our North America 
downstream business through organic 
growth and acquisition, with Direct Energy 
downstream becoming a more material 
part of the Group. We will also look for 
opportunities upstream, with the potential 
for exports over time. In each case, we will 
only invest where we see value and a good 
fit with our Group-wide capabilities.
the health and 
safety of o Ur 
eMployees and 
CUsto Mers 
Cont InUes to  
Be one of o Ur  
Core prI orI t Ies Business Review – Corporate Responsibility Review
36 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
complaint-handling. We assist vulnerable 
customers by advising them on energy 
efficiency, through direct financial support 
and other means.
Securing affordable energy 
We help secure UK energy supplies 
through investments in North Sea oil and 
gas.	Our	Cygnus	project	will,	at	peak	
production in 2015, supply nearly 1.5 
million homes. Our offshore wind farm 
investments are progressing with first 
power from our Lincs wind farm in 2012 
and consent granted for the Race Bank 
project.	We	also	have	agreements	to	
import pipeline gas from Norway and  
LNG from Qatar.
New forms of energy can prompt social 
and environmental concerns. All our  
gas production and energy generation 
activities involve consultation with local 
communities and stakeholders at national 
level and are managed carefully to avoid 
adverse impacts. 
Reducing carbon emissions
We manage our impact on climate change 
by helping customers reduce energy use, 
investing in lower carbon power generation 
and cutting property, fleet and travel 
emissions.
Energy efficiency is the best way to cut 
customers’ energy use and emissions.  
We promote this by insulating homes and 
installing more efficient boilers. Additionally, 
British Gas provides products that enable 
customers to heat and light their homes 
with lower carbon emissions. Over the 
past three years we have enabled 
downstream carbon savings equivalent  
Corporate respons IBIl Ity rev Iew 
Centrica’s corporate 
responsibility ambition is 
to be the most trusted 
energy company. 
Governance
Centrica’s business principles are based 
on trust, integrity and openness. Our 
strong governance and internal control 
systems help us to apply our values 
consistently, reconcile conflicting priorities 
responsibly and keep corporate 
responsibility (CR) integral to our activities. 
The Corporate Responsibility Committee 
ensures that Centrica effectively manages 
its impact on society, the environment  
and the wider economy. The Executive 
Committee has overall responsibility for 
implementing CR strategy across the 
Group and individual business units 
identify which material issues concern  
their stakeholders and assess the impact 
of their operations.
Stakeholder engagement
During 2012, we kept in regular contact  
with stakeholders, including governments, 
regulators, investors, business partners, 
local communities and non-governmental 
organisations, to maintain a comprehensive 
understanding of their views about our 
business and its wider impacts. Our CR 
Advisory Group continues to provide 
valuable external feedback and guidance.
We maintain a dialogue with socially 
responsible investment organisations  
and cover CR issues at mainstream 
shareholder presentations. We participate in 
the FTSE4Good and the Carbon Disclosure 
Project	(CDP)	indices	and,	in	2012,	again	
featured in the CDP Leadership ‘Global 500’ 
as the top-scoring UK utility company. 
Our priorities 
Treating customers with fairness
We strive to build trust with our customers, 
government and other stakeholders.  
In 2012, we maintained our efforts to make 
buying energy easier by simplifying bills 
and tariff structures, moving to single tier 
pricing and providing support for 
vulnerable customers. We also engaged 
fully with Ofgem, the UK regulator. 
We aim to keep prices fair by helping 
households save energy and reducing 
operating costs. A slight fall in wholesale 
electricity prices allowed us to decrease 
prices by 5% in January 2012. However, 
wholesale gas prices are now 13%  
higher than in winter 2011/12, while  
costs for upgrading the UK’s grid and 
meeting carbon reduction targets have 
increased by around £50 per customer. 
We therefore increased prices for domestic 
gas and electricity in November by an 
average of 6%.
We have improved service standards 
significantly in recent years. We track 
perception of our service with net promoter 
scores, which measure customers’ 
willingness to recommend us. 
Our strategy of listening to customer 
concerns has encouraged a UK focus on 
fairness, simplicity and honesty. This has 
led to simpler bills and more openness in 
Mary Francis CBE
Chairman of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee
“  oUr BU sIness I nvolves U s In a w Ide 
range of so CIal, env Iron Mental 
and ethIC al I ss Ues.  ” 37 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Corporate Responsibility Review
to a 1.8GW wind farm. British Gas will also 
help deliver the UK Government’s Green 
Deal, which offers customers financial help 
to increase energy efficiency.
Reducing power generation emissions 
requires less use of fossil fuels. Centrica 
plans to maintain its interest in lower 
carbon power generation and to invest 
when it makes economic sense. While  
we are not pursuing nuclear new build,  
we continue to provide lower carbon 
power through our 20% off-take from  
the UK’s existing nuclear power stations.
In 2012 our Group carbon intensity 
reduced by 10%, largely reflecting 
Centrica’s mothballing of UK gas-fired 
power stations for commercial reasons. 
We reduce property, fleet and travel 
emissions by raising employee awareness, 
making offices more energy efficient, 
investing in lower-carbon vehicles and 
providing alternatives to business travel. 
We aim to cut emissions from buildings, 
company vehicles and travel in our core 
business by 20% by 2015, from the 2007 
baseline. In 2012, we achieved a 2% 
reduction year on year. Carbon emissions 
from these activities were 91,988 tonnes.
We also measure our absolute emissions, 
which include emissions from power 
generation. In 2012, they totalled 7.2 million 
tonnes	(2011:	8.1	million	tonnes).	
Making safety a core value
Safety is one of the Group’s core priorities. 
We accept our responsibility to protect the 
health and safety of employees, contractors, 
customers and the wider public.
We reinforce our proactive safety culture 
through strong leadership and awareness-
raising programmes. We focus on process 
safety in our upstream operations and on 
the safety of the public and our engineers 
downstream. We had no significant 
process safety events in 2012. 
Our	standard	lost-time	injury	frequency	
rate reduced to 0.20 per 100,000 hours 
worked	(2011:	0.25).	We	continued	to	focus	
on road safety. Our ‘low severity’ incident 
rate reduced by 33% to 5.0 per million km 
driven. We had six ‘high severity’ incidents 
– a 40% reduction but a reminder of the 
need for ongoing rigour in road safety 
programmes. There were no fatal incidents 
among Centrica Group employees or 
associated third parties.
Our employees
We had an average of 38,642 employees 
in 2012 with a retention rate of 89.7% 
(2011:	89.5%).	We	continued	to	focus	on	
skills, development and employee 
engagement to make Centrica a rewarding 
place to work. Continuous learning and 
development is essential to ensure 
employees and leaders are equipped to 
grow our business. 
In 2012, we conducted a Group-wide 
employee engagement survey. Our overall 
engagement score, benchmarked against 
our peers, saw a slight decline but 
remained above median.
Organisational changes to reflect the 
evolving nature of our business resulted  
in 2,459 employees leaving the Group. 
Achieving such change is never an easy 
process and we made every effort to 
support those affected, wherever possible 
redeploying people, or supporting them  
in finding other work.
Employees receive regular updates on 
Company news and performance through 
newsletters, emails, online sites and 
meetings with Executive Committee 
members. Eligible employees are 
encouraged to participate in employee 
share schemes, which have good rates  
of participation.
Diversity
We are committed to equal opportunity 
and diversity and will not tolerate 
discrimination. We give full consideration  
to employment applications from disabled 
people. If an employee becomes disabled, 
wherever possible, we offer support, 
retraining, equipment and facilities to keep 
them with us. We encourage the retention 
and recruitment of older people. Improving 
women’s representation at all levels is 
another priority. 
Community investment
In 2012, we contributed £233.6 million 
directly to supporting vulnerable customers 
and	community	and	social	projects.	 
The	majority	of	our	contributions	were	
through mandatory programmes such  
as the Warm Home Discount and the 
Community Energy Saving Programme. 
We also contributed £9.3 million to 
charitable organisations using the London 
Benchmarking Group methodology, 
including establishing strategic 
partnerships such as between British  
Gas and Shelter.
fOR m ORE InfOR m ATIOn SEE Th E 
OPERATIn G REv IEw O n PAGES 22 TO 35
89.7%
Employee retention rate for 2012 38 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Principal Risks and Uncertainties
pr InCIpal r Isks and U nCerta Int Ies
t he risks we face in 
a rapidly changing 
landscape continue to 
evolve over time. 2013 
presents our organisation 
with more challenges. 
strong governance and a 
clear risk strategy equip  
us for uncertainties ahead. 
The following risks could impact our future 
performance. The list is not exhaustive  
and items are not prioritised. The list,  
and the nature of the risks, may change 
during the year.
Health, safety, security and 
environment (HSSE)
We face four principal categories of HSSE 
risks	associated	with	our	operations:
•	 an incident resulting in one or more 
fatalities	or	multiple	injuries	at	an	owned,	
operated or other facility where the 
organisation has an interest;
•	 an incident which results in significant 
environmental damage or compliance 
breach;
•	 an incident which results in a fatality or 
major	injury	to	members	of	the	public;	
and
•	 a security event, requiring activation  
of our crisis management plan and/or 
business continuity plan.
Such risks may result in widespread 
distress and harm, significant disruption to 
operations and damage to our reputation. 
The cost related to the recovery, clean up 
and/or resultant litigation could have  
a material financial impact. We also have 
non-controlled interests in organisations 
with inherently high hazards, relating to the 
exploration and production of oil and gas 
and nuclear power generation. 
Brand and reputation
Failure to follow our global business 
principles of operating professionally,  
fairly and with integrity could harm our 
reputation, as could real or perceived 
customer service failings. Rising prices, 
increased political pressures and deep 
recessionary impacts have all increased 
the level of media coverage. We need to 
ensure that we clearly communicate our 
future strategy to key stakeholders, in 
order to avoid an adverse reaction and loss 
of confidence in the Group.
Social media now allows consumers and 
pressure groups to mount damaging direct 
action and other campaigns more readily 
than before. 
Failure to restore public confidence could 
impact Group revenues. Public exposure 
to criticism could damage our brand, 
increase governmental or regulatory 
intervention and reduce access to  
financial capital.
Legislation and regulation
Energy markets in the UK, North America 
and mainland Europe are closely regulated. 
Legal or regulatory changes could impact 
our ability to achieve financial goals. 
“ assess Ing and M anag Ing r Isk I s a 
f Unda Mental part of day to day  
BUsIness M anage Ment a Cross Centr ICa. ”
New financial regulation was introduced  
in the US and Europe in the wake of the 
global financial crisis. Governments and 
regulators, often under public pressure, 
have also stepped up levels of 
enforcement and intervention. 
Retail sector competitiveness continues  
to face regulatory scrutiny, as the costs  
of higher wholesale commodity prices  
are	passed	on	to	customers,	just	as	
disposable incomes are falling and 
deepening recessionary impacts  
continue to be felt. 
Public statements made by governing 
political bodies can cause concern. One  
of the challenges would be the abolition  
of existing or future ‘green’ subsidies,  
as occurred in the UK solar industry  
and in other energy sources around the 
world, such as the end of free carbon 
allowances in 2012 which will impact  
our upstream business. 
Such developments may have a material 
adverse effect on our business, 
operations, financial condition and ability  
to meet long-term growth aspirations, 
especially if any case of compliance failure 
receives extensive media coverage. 
Strategic growth
Strategic issues, including capital 
investment in mergers, acquisitions, 
disposals, market position, climate change, 
sustainable development and new 
technologies, are affected by the global 
economy. As we implement our refreshed 
strategic priorities to deliver our vision to  
be the leading integrated energy company 
with customers at our core, we face an 
increasingly uncertain environment. 
Nick Luff
Group Finance Director 39 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Business Review – Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Challenges include the intensifying 
uncertainty in the world economy reflected 
by concerns over further economic 
deterioration, pressure from higher 
wholesale prices, increased competition, 
reduced demand and recessionary 
impacts, all of which contribute to making 
market conditions challenging. 
The rise of the digital economy is adding to 
competitive pressures and with the internet 
entering a second phase dominated by 
mobile devices, the barriers to market 
entry are falling and customer loyalties can 
change swiftly. In the UK market, smart 
meters represent one of the biggest 
changes in the retail energy market since 
the 1970s. British Gas will operate, not only 
in an energy market but in an energy 
services and advisory market open to 
non-traditional players.
Commodity costs
Volatile commodity costs affect our ability 
to price competitively and meet profit 
targets. The Group buys a significant 
proportion of the gas to supply Britain’s 
needs. This position sets the Group apart 
from the other counterparts in the UK 
market. To maintain supply and protect 
against possible price increases much  
of this is procured in advance in order to 
ensure a balanced supply and demand 
portfolio. This relies heavily on seasonal 
forecast accuracy. 
There has been a significant impact from 
shale gas in North America where an 
immediate effect has been to lower 
wholesale gas prices in the US and 
weaken the traditional links between gas 
and oil prices. Such an emerging energy 
source could influence global energy 
markets over time, with the surplus of gas 
affecting the current liquefied natural gas 
(LNG) sector in particular.
Investment decisions key to Group 
strategic growth plans, particularly in 
respect of upstream assets such as  
gas fields or power stations, are based  
on evaluations underpinned by forecasts  
of longer-term commodity price 
development. These reflect prevailing 
market prices and are supplemented  
by assessments of underlying industry 
fundamentals.
There are also a number of contractual 
capacity contracts, the economic value  
of which depends on volatile spread 
relationships.
Change management 
The level of change experienced by our 
business	is	significant,	deriving	from:
•	 capital	projects;
•	 IT change programmes; and
•	 organisational change.
We	assess	large	capital	projects	as	a	
means of growth. Such large-scale 
initiatives carry complexity and could result 
in the Group entering new markets, whilst 
exposing us to the risk of build quality 
issues, cost and timetable overruns, 
unsuccessful development of partnership 
opportunities and health, safety, security 
and environment failures. 
Internal IT change programmes are equally 
large and complex. Work on existing 
systems	carries	the	risks	of:	
•	 trying to deliver too much change and 
over-stretching resources; 
•	 change being completed but systems 
integrity being undermined and 
threatening business continuity; and
•	 cost overruns and/or expected benefits 
not being realised. 
Organisational change stems from internal 
restructuring as we drive to make our 
business as efficient and effective as 
possible, without detriment to our levels  
of customer service. Our recent 
announcements mean that the Group will 
face a period of increased change activity 
in 2013.
Information security
Effective and secure information systems 
are essential for efficient management and 
accurate billing of customers, upstream 
operations and energy trading and 
hedging activities. 
The threat of cyber attacks against our 
industry continues to escalate to similar 
levels experienced by government 
agencies and financial institutions. There 
could be multiple sources of motivation for 
these attacks. These risks, however, which 
could arise from inadequate or inconsistent 
implementation of IT security controls, 
could seriously affect the Group’s 
reputation, lead to legal action and/or 
outages that could cause financial and 
operational loss. 
People 
Key to our ability to successfully deliver 
business plans and strategic growth is  
the attraction, retention and succession 
planning of senior management and 
individuals with key skills. This applies  
to customer service, the delivery of new 
systems and in particular to areas where 
there is strong competition for technical 
and	project	management	capability,	such	
as our upstream business.
 As we continue to change, the business 
must be organised in the most effective 
and efficient way possible to ensure its 
cost base is as low as possible, so that  
we can offer customers competitive prices 
and products. This includes both cultural 
and behavioural change as well as 
ambitious technical-change programmes.
As part of this, the Group also needs to 
maintain good relations with trade unions, 
primarily the Centrica Energy upstream 
business operational workforce and British 
Gas engineers. 
Failure to maintain a high calibre, engaged 
and stable workforce could compromise 
achievement of the Group’s strategy and 
could have a material adverse effect on its 
business, results of operations and overall 
financial condition.
More Infor Mat Ion
Further information on risk 
management can be found in 
the Annual Report and Accounts 
at centrica.com/report2012 40 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Summary Financial Statements
sUMMary g ro Up InCoMe stateM ent
2012 2011
Year ended 31 December
Business 
performance
£m
Exceptional
items and certain
re-measurements
£m
Results for
the year
£m
Business
performance
£m
Exceptional
items and certain
re-measurements
£m
Results for
the year
£m
Group revenue 23,942 – 23,942 22,824 – 22,824
Cost of sales before exceptional items 
and certain re-measurements (18,676) – (18,676) (17,959) – (17,959)
Exceptional items – (89) (89) – (221) (221)
Re-measurement of energy contracts – 603 603 – (437) (437)
Gross profit 5,266 514 5,780 4,865 (658) 4,207
Operating costs before exceptional items (2,844) – (2,844) (2,750) – (2,750)
Exceptional items – (445) (445) – (110) (110)
Share	of	profits/(losses)	in	joint	ventures	and	 
associates, net of interest and taxation 140 (6) 134 93 (26) 67
Group operating profit 2,562 63 2,625 2,208 (794) 1,414
Net interest expense (183) – (183) (146) – (146)
Profit from continuing operations  
before taxation 2,379 63 2,442 2,062 (794) 1,268
Taxation on profit from continuing operations (1,029) (140) (1,169) (810) (16) (826)
Profit from continuing operations  
after taxation 1,350 (77) 1,273 1,252 (810) 442
Profit from discontinued operations – – – 13 22 35
Loss on disposal of discontinued operations – – – – (56) (56)
Profit for the year 1,350 (77) 1,273 1,265 (844) 421
Earnings per ordinary share Pence Pence
From	continuing	and	discontinued	operations:
 Basic 24.6 8.2
 Diluted 24.4 8.1
From	continuing	operations:
 Basic 24.6 8.6
 Diluted 24.4 8.5
Interim dividend paid per ordinary share 4.62 4.29
Final dividend proposed per ordinary share 11.78 11.11
 
£000 £000
Directors’ emoluments 8,799 8,772 41 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Summary Financial Statements
sUMMary gro Up stateM ent of C hanges I n eq UIty
sUMMary gro Up Cash flow stateM ent
sUMMary g ro Up Balan Ce sheet
31 December
2012
£m
2011
£m
Non-current assets 15,812 13,973
Current assets 6,140 5,596
Current liabilities (6,492) (6,270)
Net current liabilities (352) (674)
Non-current liabilities (9,533) (7,699)
Net assets 5,927 5,600
Equity 5,927 5,600
2012
£m
2011
£m
1 January 5,600 5,819
Profit for the year 1,273 421
Other comprehensive (loss)/income (196) 81
6,677 6,321
Employee share schemes 66 57
Purchase of non-controlling interest – (7)
Dividends (816) (762)
Taxation (1) (8)
Exchange	adjustments 1 (1)
31 December 5,927 5,600
31 December
2012
£m
2011
£m
Cash generated from continuing operations 3,605 3,229
Net interest, taxation and other operating cash flows (785) (892)
Net cash flow from operating activities 2,820 2,337
Net cash flow from investing activities (2,558) (1,400)
Net cash flow from financing activities 190 (907)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 452 30
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 479 451
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – (2)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 931 479
The Summary Financial Statements on pages 40 to 41 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 
27 February	2013	and	were	signed	below	on	its	behalf	by:
Sam Laidlaw     Nick Luff
Chief Executive     Group Finance Director 42 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Summary Governance
Independent Auditors’ Statement to the
members of Centrica plc 
We have examined the Summary Financial Statements which 
comprise the Summary Group Income Statement, Summary 
Group Balance Sheet, Summary Group Statement of Changes in 
Equity, Summary Group Cash Flow Statement and the Summary 
Remuneration Report.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review 
and Summary Financial Statements in accordance with applicable 
United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the 
consistency of the Summary Financial Statements within the 
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements with the  
full Annual Financial Statements, the Directors’ Report and the 
Remuneration Report, and their compliance with the relevant 
requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and the 
regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual 
Review and Summary Financial Statements and consider the 
implications for our statement if we become aware of any 
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the 
Summary Financial Statements. The other information comprises 
only the Chairman’s Statement and the other items listed on the 
contents page.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and 
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. 
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this 
statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008/3 
issued by the Auditing Practices Board. Our reports on the 
Company’s full Annual Financial Statements describe the basis of 
our audit opinions on those Financial Statements, the Directors’ 
Report and the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Opinion
In our opinion the Summary Financial Statements are consistent 
with the full Annual Financial Statements, the Directors’ Report  
and the Directors’ Remuneration Report of Centrica plc for the 
year ended 31 December 2012 and comply with the applicable 
requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and  
the regulations made thereunder.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 27 February 2013
Annual Report
The Auditors have issued an unqualified report on the Annual 
Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration 
Report containing no statement under section 498 of the 
Companies Act 2006. The Auditors’ Report in respect of 
consistency between the Directors’ Report and the Group 
Financial Statements is also unqualified. These Summary Financial 
Statements are a summary of the Annual Report and Accounts 
and the narrative reports contain information from the Directors’ 
Report but not the full text of that report. They do not contain 
sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the 
results and state of affairs of the Group and of its policies and 
arrangements concerning the Directors’ remuneration as would 
be provided by the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Annual Report and Accounts can be downloaded from the 
Company’s website at centrica.com or can be obtained, free of 
charge, from Equiniti, the Company’s Registrars. Shareholders 
may also elect to receive the Annual Report and Accounts instead 
of the Summary Financial Statements for all future years. Contact 
details for Equiniti can be found on page 48.
Dividends
For 2012, an interim dividend of 4.62 pence per share was paid  
on	14 November	2012.	The	Directors	propose	that,	subject	to	
approval at the 2013 Annual General Meeting (AGM), a final 
dividend of 11.78 pence per share will be paid on 12 June 2013 to 
those shareholders registered on 26 April 2013. This would make 
a	total	dividend	for	the	year	of	16.4	pence	per	share	(2011:	 
15.4 pence per share).
Summary Corporate Governance Report
The Board believes that good corporate governance contributes 
to Centrica’s performance. A clearly defined framework of roles, 
responsibilities and delegated authorities is in place and this 
supports the Board’s aim to deliver sustainable growth for the 
benefit of shareholders, employees and customers. A report on 
how the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
Code) were applied is set out in the Corporate Governance 
Report in the Annual Report. The Company complied fully with 
the provisions set out in the Code throughout the year.
Board of Directors
The Directors consider that the Board leads and controls the 
Group effectively, has a robust governance structure and that no 
individual or small group of individuals dominate the Board’s 
decision-making. The powers of the Directors are set out in the 
Company’s Articles of Association (Articles), which are available on 
the Company’s website. The Articles may be amended by special 
resolution. In addition, the Directors have responsibilities and duties 
under legislation, in particular the Companies Act 2006.
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its 
approval which it reviewed against best practice in December 
2012 and concluded that no changes were necessary. The full 
schedule is available on the Company’s website. The Board 
operates	six	Committees	to	oversee	the	standards	of	the	Group:	
Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility, 
Executive and Disclosure. Each Committee is professionally 
chaired and populated by an appropriate mix of Executive and/or 
Non-Executive Directors. The Board reviews annually each 
Committee’s terms of reference and membership against best 
practice as well as taking into account any relevant changes  
in circumstances. The full written terms of reference for the 
Committees can be found on the Company’s website.
Board appointments, evaluation and development
The Chairman’s Statement on pages 5 to 8 discusses the 
Company’s corporate culture and practice as well as Board 
composition, diversity, succession planning and evaluation.  
Th E full G Ov ERn An CE And R Emun ERATIOn R EPORTS  
CAn BE f Ound I n Th E Annu Al R EPORT AT CEn TRICA.COm/ REPORT2012 Summary Governance
43 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
The Board has agreed that each Director shall stand for re-
appointment at each AGM. Details of the Directors of the 
Company, including their biographies and their Board Committee 
memberships, are set out on pages 46 and 47 . All new Directors 
appointed to the Board receive a comprehensive induction 
programme tailored to meet their individual needs. The Chairman 
and General Counsel & Company Secretary are responsible for 
delivering an effective induction programme for newly appointed 
Directors, specially tailored to meet the individual’s requirements. 
This will comprise briefings from members of the Executive team 
on key areas of the business including the internal audit function, 
an overview of the Group’s risk management processes, the key 
risks facing the business and a briefing in respect of the corporate 
governance framework within Centrica. Ongoing development 
and training is also provided to all Directors at Board and 
Committee meetings. During the year, Directors received regular 
updates and presentations on changes and developments to the 
business and to the legislative and regulatory environments in 
which the Group operates. 
The Board considers the annual review of the Board, its 
Committees and Directors as an essential part of good corporate 
governance, with the use of an external facilitator at least once 
every three years. On each occasion, the Board has received 
positive reports and has adopted recommendations to improve 
Board, Committee and individual Director performance. A full 
discussion on the implementation of the 2011 external evaluation’s 
findings and the internal evaluation conducted in December 2012 
can be found in the Chairman’s Statement on page 5.
Internal Control
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control 
and risk management and considers this to be fundamental to the 
achievement	of	the	Group’s	strategic	objectives.	The	key	function	
of the Audit Committee is to review the effectiveness of the 
Company’s financial reporting and internal controls together with 
the procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of 
risks. A full description of the Group’s risk management and 
internal control is detailed in the Corporate Governance Report in 
the Annual Report.
The Board, with the advice of the Audit Committee, has reviewed 
the effectiveness of the system of internal control, for the period 
from 1 January 2012 to the date of this Review, and is satisfied 
that the Group complies with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board will continue routinely to challenge management in 
order to ensure that the system of internal control is constantly 
improving and remains fit for purpose.
Summary Remuneration Report
The principal role of the Remuneration Committee (the 
Committee) is to determine and make recommendations to  
the Board on the Company’s framework and broad policy for the 
remuneration of the Chairman of the Board, the Company’s 
Executive Directors and other senior executives (executives). The 
remuneration policy aims to deliver a competitive package which 
attracts and retains high quality executives, whilst placing a strong 
emphasis	on	performance,	achieving	strategic	objectives	and	
delivering sustainable value to shareholders. The remuneration 
framework reflects current best practice.
The 2012 Remuneration Report has been designed to move 
towards the new requirements for remuneration reporting as 
proposed by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills 
(BIS) as part of their consultation process. The Directors’ 
remuneration table on page 45 reflects the new requirements.
As noted in the 2011 Remuneration Report, during the first quarter 
of	2012,	the	Committee	adjusted	the	measurement	and	weighting	
of the key performance drivers within the existing incentive 
arrangements. We also introduced a formal mechanism for 
clawback of deferred rewards if it is subsequently discovered that 
results have been achieved by behaviour which fails to reflect the 
governance and values of the business. We have engaged with a 
number of shareholders during the year on our remuneration 
arrangements and remain committed to holding early discussions 
with shareholders in advance of any future changes.
Total variable earnings opportunity in 2012 remained unchanged 
from last year and the performance targets were both stretching 
and	aligned	with	the	Group’s	strategic	objectives.	The	key	
performance drivers are based on simple measures and the 
arrangements require substantial deferral of short-term reward. 
As we move forward, the Committee intends to continue to strive 
for greater simplicity and transparency, to ensure alignment 
between the Group’s strategic direction and the measures of 
performance, and to maintain a responsible approach to both fixed 
and variable remuneration, which respects both the social climate 
in which we operate and the demands of our business model. 
The Committee firmly believes that Centrica’s remuneration  
is and will remain in compliance with the principles of the  
Code and that its remuneration arrangements appropriately 
incentivise and reward shareholder value creation but do not 
encourage excessive risk-taking. 
Components of Executive Remuneration
There was no change to the target and maximum bonus 
opportunity for 2012.
Part of the bonus earned under the Annual Incentive Scheme 
(AIS) for the previous year is compulsorily deferred into Centrica 
shares (deferred shares). During 2012, 40% of AIS earned in 
respect of 2011 for the Chief Executive and 30% for the other 
executives was compulsorily deferred. Executives are also given 
the opportunity to make an additional voluntary deferral of AIS into 
Centrica shares (investment shares). The maximum total deferral 
that may be made, including the compulsory deferral, is 50% of 
the maximum AIS opportunity which may be earned for a year.
Deferred and investment shares that are held for three years will 
be matched to the extent that a long-term performance condition 
is met.
For awards made from 2010, matching shares were structured  
as nil-cost options for all UK resident participants.
In 2012, Long Term Incentive Scheme (LTIS) allocations equal  
to 200% of base pay were awarded to Executive Directors and,  
at lower levels, to other senior executives. 
In respect of LTIS awards from 2010 these were structured as 
nil-cost options for all UK resident participants. Summary Governance
44 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
The Executive Directors are also eligible, on the same basis as 
other employees, to participate in the Company’s HMRC-
approved Sharesave Scheme and Share Incentive Plan.
Phil Bentley and Chris Weston participate in the Centrica Pension 
Plan, a contributory final salary arrangement, and in the Centrica 
Unfunded Pension Scheme (CUPS) defined benefit section.  
Sam Laidlaw, Mark Hanafin and Nick Luff are entitled to receive a 
salary supplement of 40% of base pay, or participate in the CUPS 
defined contribution section.
The table below sets out the core remuneration package for 
Executive Directors and summarises the vesting criteria and 
performance conditions in respect of the AIS, Deferred and 
Matching Share Scheme (DMSS) and LTIS.
Element Opportunity Objective and link to strategy Current performance measures Changes for 2013
Base pay Salaries are reviewed annually, 
taking account of performance, 
market conditions and pay  
in the Group as a whole. 
Current salaries were originally 
set in 2010. 
Reflects the role and sustained value of the 
individual in terms of skills, experience and 
contribution.
Not applicable. Base salaries will be 
reviewed during the 
course of 2013.
Retirement 
benefits
Executive Directors are entitled 
to participate in a Centrica 
pension arrangement or to 
receive a salary supplement  
in lieu of pension of 40% of 
base pay.
Positioned to ensure broad competitiveness 
with market practice.
Not applicable. No change.
Other 
benefits
Entitlements include car or 
car allowance, life assurance 
premiums, medical benefits 
and financial advice. Benefits 
are	subject	to	financial	limits	as	
set out in appropriate policies. 
Positioned to ensure broad competitiveness 
with market practice.
Not applicable. No change.
Annual 
Incentive 
Scheme 
(AIS)
Chief Executive
0 – 180% of base pay.
Other Executive Directors
0 – 150% of base pay.
Half the maximum is payable 
for on-target performance.
Designed to reward the delivery of key 
strategic priorities for the year.
These priorities position the Group well 
for strong future performance, reinforcing 
the importance of balancing growth with 
economic profit returns in a business which 
is more vertically integrated and capital 
intensive.
If overall business performance is not 
deemed satisfactory, the individual’s bonus 
for the year may be reduced or forfeited,  
at the discretion of the Committee.
70% based on Economic Profit (EP).
30%	based	on	strategic	objectives	aligned	
to business priorities.
No change.
Deferred  
and 
Matching 
Share 
Scheme 
(DMSS)
Mandatory deferral of 40% of 
AIS award for Chief Executive 
and 30% for other Executive 
Directors.
Additional deferral opportunity 
to take the total deferral up 
to 50% of maximum bonus 
opportunity.
Up to two matching shares for 
each	deferred	share	subject	to	
performance over three years.
Assists with employee retention and 
incentivises an appropriate balance between 
short-term performance and long-term value 
creation for shareholders.
Encourages sustainable high performance 
and discourages peaks and troughs.
All deferred awards can be clawed back if it 
is subsequently discovered that the results 
have been achieved by behaviour which fails 
to reflect the governance and values of the 
business.
Absolute aggregate EP over the 
performance	period:	minimum	£2.6bn	
and maximum £3.4bn provides one or 
two matching shares respectively. Where 
performance falls between stated points, 
vesting is calculated on a straight line basis.
No change.
Long Term 
Incentive 
Scheme 
(LTIS)
Up to 200% of base pay. Provides a direct link between remuneration 
and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), 
reinforcing the desire for sustainable high 
performance over the long-term.
If overall performance is not deemed 
satisfactory, the award for any year may  
be reduced or forfeited, at the discretion  
of the Committee.
35% based on EPS with 25% vesting 
for achieving growth of RPI +9% and full 
vesting requiring RPI +30%.
35% based on absolute aggregate EP  
over performance period with 25%  
vesting for achieving £2.6bn and full 
vesting requiring £3.4bn.
30% based on non-financial KPI 
dashboard.
TSR performance against the FTSE 100 
Index acting as a positive or negative 
multiplier:	0.667x	multiple	for	Index	 
-7% per annum and 1.5x multiple for  
Index +7% per annum capped at the  
face value of the award. 
Where performance falls between stated 
points, vesting is calculated on a straight 
line basis.
No change.
Summary of remuneration elements for Executive Directors Summary Governance
45 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
TSR – five year FTSE 100 Index
The following compares the Company’s TSR performance  
with that of the FTSE 100 Index for the five years ended 
31 December 2012.
Source: Alithos Limited, 31 December 2007 = 100
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Centrica return index Centrica return index FTSE 100 return index
70
130
Centrica and FTSE 100 Index
TSR – ﬁve year FTSE 100 Index (unaudited) 
90
110
Remuneration tables
Directors’ remuneration 
Base pay/fees
£000
Cash payments 
in lieu of pension 
and contributions 
to DB plans
£000 (i)
Benefits and 
other cash 
£000 (ii)
Cash AIS
£000
Deferred AIS
£000 (iii)
Long-term 
incentives
(LTIS and 
DMSS matching)
£000 (iv)
Total 
remuneration 
2012
£000 (v)
Total
remuneration 
2011 restated
£000 (vi)
Chief Executive
Sam Laidlaw 950 285 71 185 855 2,613 4,959 4,967
Executive Directors 
Phil Bentley
(vii)
635 225 46 635 – 1,549 3,090 2,064
Mark Hanafin
(viii)
575 173 35 23 431 1,358 2,595 2,778
Nick Luff 610 183 21 145 458 1,437 2,854 2,840
Chris Weston
(viii)
510 167 403 224 383 1,254 2,941 2,798
3,280 1,033 576 1,212 2,127 8,211 16,439 15,447
Chairman
Sir Roger Carr 490 – – – – – 490 490
Non-Executive Directors
Dame Helen Alexander – – – – – – – 85
Margherita Della Valle 65 – – – – – 65 65
Mary Francis 105 – – – – – 105 105
Lesley Knox 85 – – – – – 85 –
Andrew Mackenzie 65 – – – – – 65 65
Ian Meakins 65 – – – – – 65 65
Paul Rayner 88 – – – – – 88 88
963 – – – – – 963 963
Total remuneration 4,243 1,033 576 1,212 2,127 8,211 17,402 16,410
(i)  Contributions into the defined benefit pension plan for Phil Bentley and Chris Weston, calculated using the BIS methodology of 20 times the increase in the accrued pension for the year are 
included in the table above. The table excludes CUPS defined contribution unfunded promises.
(ii)	 Benefits	and	other	cash	include:
	 •	 car,	health	and	medical,	financial	planning	and	life	assurance	premiums;	and
	 •	 benefits	and	expenses	for	Chris	Weston	under	the	terms	of	his	international	assignment	agreement	and	for	his	relocation	from	Canada	to	the	US.
(iii) Each Executive Director has deferred up to 50% of their maximum AIS potential on a gross basis and invested these funds into DMSS.
(iv)  The long-term incentives include a forecast of the value of the LTIS awards due to vest in April 2013, relating to the three-year performance period ending in 2012, and a forecast of the value of 
the DMSS matching awards due to vest in April 2013, relating to the three-year performance period ending in 2012. The share price used to calculate the forecasted value was the three month 
average	to	31	December	2012	(328.6p	per	share).	The	LTIS	awards	were	valued	using	the	latest	TSR	projection	as	at	1	February	2013,	which	was	75.6%,	and	the	projected	EPS	performance	
outcome	of	0%.	The	DMSS	awards	were	valued	using	the	projected	EP	performance	outcome	of	100%.	
(v)	 	 The	following	are	excluded	from	the	table	above:	ESOS	options,	Sharesave,	the	value	of	any	shares	awarded	under	the	Share	Incentive	Plan	and	the	value	of	dividend	equivalent	shares	to	be	
calculated at vesting in respect of LTIS and DMSS matching awards.
(vi)  The 2011 total remuneration figures have been recalculated and restated based on the BIS methodology for calculating total emoluments. Consequently, the value of the long-term incentive 
awards vesting in 2012 has been included in the total remuneration for 2011.
(vii)  The Company announced on 27 February 2013 that Phil Bentley will step down as Managing Director of British Gas on 30 June 2013. Details of the termination arrangements are provided in the 
Annual Report and on the Company’s website.
(viii)  Chris Weston exercised 112,330 ESOS options during 2012, with an exercise price of 130.50p per share. The share price on the date of exercise was 319.60p per share and consequently the gain 
on exercise was £212,416. Mark Hanafin and Chris Weston exercised 4,727 Sharesave options in 2012 with an exercise price of 193.54p per share. The share price on the dates of exercise were 
respectively 323.50p per share and 308.60p per share and consequently the gains on exercise were respectively £6,143 and £5,439. 46 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Board of Directors
1. Sir Roger Carr 
Chairman (66) 
Sir	Roger	joined	the	Board	as	a	Non-
Executive Director on 1 January 2001.  
He was appointed Chairman of the 
Board in May 2004 and is Chairman  
of the Nominations Committee. During 
2011, he was appointed president of  
the CBI and a member of the UK Prime 
Minister’s Business Advisory Group.  
He remains deputy chairman and senior 
independent director of the Court of the 
Bank of England. He is also a senior 
adviser to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and 
a trustee of the Landau Forte Charitable 
Trust. He has previously held a number 
of senior appointments including 
chairman of Mitchells & Butlers plc and 
Cadbury plc. He is a fellow of the Royal 
Society for the encouragement of the 
Arts, Manufacturers and Commerce  
and a visiting fellow to the Said Business 
School, Oxford. Throughout his career 
he has served on a number of external 
committees including the Higgs 
Committee on Corporate Governance  
and Business for New Europe. 
2. Sam Laidlaw 
Chief Executive (57) 
Sam	joined	Centrica	as	Chief	Executive	 
on 1 July 2006. He is Chairman of the 
Executive Committee and the Disclosure 
Committee. In January 2008, he was 
appointed a non-executive director of 
HSBC Holdings plc and in December 
2010 he was appointed as the lead 
non-executive director on the board of 
the Department for Transport. He was 
also a member of the UK Prime 
Minister’s Business Advisory Group. 
Previously he was executive vice 
president of the Chevron Corporation, 
chief executive officer at Enterprise Oil 
and president and chief operating officer 
at Amerada Hess. He is a trustee of the 
medical charity RAFT. 
3. Phil Bentley 
Managing Director, British Gas (54) 
Phil	joined	Centrica	as	Group	Finance	
Director on 13 September 2000, a position 
he held until the end of February 2007 
when he was appointed Managing 
Director, British Gas. Phil was also 
Managing Director, Europe between  
July 2004 and September 2006. He will 
stand down from his role as Managing 
Director of British Gas and as a Director  
of Centrica plc on 30 June 2013. He was 
appointed as a non-executive director  
of IMI plc in October 2012 and will take  
up the position of chairman of their audit 
committee from May 2013.
4. Margherita Della Valle 
Non-Executive Director (47) 
Margherita	joined	the	Board	on	1	January	
2011 and is Deputy Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. She will become Chairman  
of the Audit Committee in July 2013. In 
October 2010 she was appointed group 
financial controller of Vodafone Group Plc, 
prior to which she was chief financial 
officer for the group’s European region 
from April 2007 to October 2010 and chief 
financial officer of Vodafone Italy from 2004 
to	2007.	Previously	she	joined	Omnitel	
Pronto Italia in Italy in 1994 and held 
various consumer marketing positions in 
business analytics and customer base 
management prior to moving to finance. 
Omnitel was acquired by Vodafone Group 
in 2000. 
5. Mary Francis CBE
Senior Independent Director (64)
Mary	joined	the	Board	on	22	June	2004	
and is Senior Independent Director, 
Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee and Deputy Chairman of the 
Nominations Committee. In October 2012 
she was appointed to the Board of Swiss 
Reinsurance Company Ltd and she has 
been proposed for appointment to the 
board	of	the	Swiss	Re	Group,	subject	to	
election at their AGM in April 2013. She is  
a senior adviser to Chatham House and 
chair of governors of James Allen’s Girls’ 
School. She is a former non-executive 
director of Aviva plc, Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc, the Bank of England, 
Alliance & Leicester plc and St. Modwen 
Properties plc. She is a former director 
general of the Association of British 
Insurers, and was a senior civil servant in 
the Treasury and the Prime Minister’s Office. 
6. Mark Hanafin 
Managing Director, Centrica Energy (53)
Mark	joined	Centrica	as	Managing	
Director, Centrica Energy on 14 July 2008. 
He was appointed as a non-executive 
director of EDF Energy Nuclear Generation 
Group Limited in November 2009. 
Previously he spent 21 years with Royal 
Dutch Shell, most recently as CEO of Shell 
Energy North America in Houston. Prior  
to	joining	Shell,	he	worked	for	General	
Electric Company (GEC) having qualified 
as a chartered engineer. 
Board of d Ire Ctors and sen Ior exe CUt Ives
Summary Governance 47 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Board of Directors Senior Executives
7. Lesley Knox 
Non-Executive Director (59) 
Lesley	joined	the	Board	on	1	January	2012	
and is Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. She is a non-executive director 
of SABMiller Plc and is a trustee of the 
Grosvenor Estates and chairman of 
Grosvenor Group Limited. She was 
previously with British Linen Bank in 1997 , 
becoming governor in 1999, and was 
subsequently a founder director of British 
Linen Advisers from 1999 to 2003. She 
was previously senior non-executive 
director of Hays Plc and also spent  
 15 years with Kleinwort Benson from 1981 
to 1996, first in corporate finance and then 
as chief executive of the institutional asset 
management business. 
8. Nick Luff 
Group Finance Director (45) 
Nick	joined	Centrica	as	Group	Finance	
Director on 1 March 2007. He was 
previously chief financial officer of The 
Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation 
Company (P&O) and has held a number of 
other senior financial roles at P&O, having 
qualified as a chartered accountant at 
KPMG. Until December 2010 he was a 
non-executive director of QinetiQ Group plc. 
9. Andrew Mackenzie 
Non-Executive Director (56) 
Andrew	joined	the	Board	on	1	September	
2005. Andrew has been appointed as CEO 
of BHP Billiton with effect from 10 May 
2013 and he will resign as a Non-Executive 
Director of Centrica at that date. He will 
not, therefore, seek re-election as  
a Director at the Annual General Meeting 
to be held on 13 May 2013.
10. Ian Meakins 
Non-Executive Director (56) 
Ian	joined	the	Board	on	1	October	2010.	 
In	July	2009	he	joined	the	Wolseley	
Group as chief executive. He was 
previously chief executive of Travelex 
Holdings Limited and for two years prior 
to that he was CEO of Alliance Unichem 
plc until their merger with Boots in 2006. 
He spent 12 years with Diageo including 
four	years	as	president	European	major	
markets and global supply. His early 
career was with Procter and Gamble. 
11. Paul Rayner 
Non-Executive Director (58) 
Paul	joined	the	Board	on	22	September	
2004 and is Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. He will step down from the 
Board on 31 December 2013 and as 
Chairman of the Audit Committee on  
1 July 2013. In 2008, he was appointed a 
non-executive director of Qantas Airways 
Limited and Boral Limited. In May 2011 
he was also appointed as a non-
executive director of Treasury Wine 
Estates Limited in Australia and was 
appointed chairman in September 2012. 
He was finance director of British 
American Tobacco plc from 2002 until 
April	2008.	In	1991	he	joined	Rothmans	
Holdings Limited in Australia, holding 
senior executive appointments, and 
became chief operating officer of British 
American Tobacco Australasia Limited  
in September 1999. 
12. Chris Weston 
Managing Director, North America (49)
Chris was appointed to the Board on  
1 July 2009 upon his appointment as 
Managing Director, North America. He 
was previously Managing Director, British 
Gas Services from June 2005. Prior to 
this, he was Managing Director, British 
Gas Business from January 2002. He 
joined	Centrica	in	November	2001,	
following the acquisition of One Tel where 
he was the Managing Director of Europe. 
Previously, he worked for Cable & 
Wireless and also spent seven years in 
the army with the Royal Artillery. 
13. Grant Dawson 
General Counsel & Company 
Secretary (53) 
Grant has been General Counsel & 
Company Secretary of Centrica since  
the demerger from British Gas plc in 
February	1997 ,	having	joined	British	
Gas in October 1996. 
14. Jill Shedden 
Group Director, Human  
Resources (47) 
Jill was appointed Group Director, 
Human Resources on 1 July 2011. 
Previously she was HR Director for 
Centrica	Energy.	She	joined	British	Gas	
plc as a graduate in  1988 and has 
since held a wide range of roles  
across the Group including HR Director 
for British Gas Business and British 
Gas Residential.
Summary Governance
8 9 10 11 12 13 14 2 3 4 5 6 7 1
BOARd O f d IRECTORS And SE n IOR 
Ex ECu TIv ES PhOTOGRAP h S On  
PAGES 6 And 7
Committee membership
Audit
*
Noms
*
Rem
*
CR
*
Exec
*
Dis
Sir Roger Carr
Sam Laidlaw
Phil Bentley
Margherita  
Della Valle
Mary Francis CBE
Mark Hanafin
Lesley Knox
Nick Luff
Andrew 
Mackenzie
Ian Meakins
Paul Rayner
Chris Weston
Grant Dawson
Jill Shedden
 
*  Nominations, Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility, 
Executive, Disclosure
 Chairman
  M em b er 48 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Shareholder Information
shareholder I nfor Mat Ion
Managing your Shares
Please contact our Registrar, Equiniti, to 
manage your shareholding. Information is 
also available through the Shareholder 
Centre on our website, including frequently 
asked questions and forms available to 
download	to	help	you	to:
•	 transfer your shares;
•	 change your registered name or 
address;
•	 register a lost share certificate and 
obtain a replacement;
•	 consolidate your share certificates;
•	 manage your dividend payments;
•	 buy, sell or transfer shares through 
Centrica FlexiShare;
•	 notify the death of a shareholder; and
•	 register for electronic communications.
You can also manage your shareholding 
online by registering for Shareview via the 
electronic communications section of the 
Shareholder Centre. 
When contacting Equiniti or registering 
online, you should have your shareholder 
reference number at hand. This can be 
found on your share certificate or dividend 
tax voucher.
If you hold less than 2,500 shares, you will 
be able to change your registered address 
or set up a dividend mandate instruction 
over the phone. For security, if you hold 
more than 2,500 shares, you will need to 
put this in writing.
Please note, if you receive more than one 
copy of documents that we send you, it is 
likely that you have more than one account 
on the share register, perhaps with a 
slightly different name or address. If you 
write to Equiniti and give them the 
shareholder reference numbers, they will 
be able to combine your accounts into one.
We work with a specialist tracing agency, 
ProSearch, to identify shareholders whose 
details are not up to date and who have 
outstanding cash entitlements. Please 
notify Equiniti when you move house to 
ensure you continue to receive all our 
communications.
Centrica FlexiShare
FlexiShare is an easy way to hold Centrica 
shares without a share certificate. Your 
shares would be held in a nominee 
company, Equiniti Corporate Nominees 
Limited, however you are able to attend 
and vote at general meetings as if the 
shares were held in your own name. 
Holding your shares in this way is free and 
comes	with	a	number	of	benefits:
•	 low cost share-dealing rates, full details 
of which are available on the 
Shareholder Centre together with 
dealing charges;
•	 quicker settlement periods for buying 
and selling shares; and
•	 the	opportunity	to	join	the	Dividend	
Reinvestment Plan.
Dividends
Dividends on Centrica shares are usually 
paid in June and November. Details of the 
dividends for the year ended 31 December 
2012 can be found in on page 42.
You are encouraged to have your dividends 
paid directly to your bank or building 
society account. This means that you will 
receive the money on the day it is paid 
which avoids any risk of missing cheques. 
If you do choose to receive your dividends 
in this way, a consolidated tax voucher will 
be sent to you in March each year.
If you do not have a UK bank or building 
society account, Equiniti are able to pay 
dividends in local currencies in over 30 
countries. For a small fee, you could have 
your dividends converted from sterling and 
paid into your designated bank account, 
usually within five days of the dividend 
being paid.
Buying and selling shares with a 
share certificate
If you wish to buy or sell Centrica shares 
and	hold	a	share	certificate,	you	can	do	this:
•	 by using the services of a stockbroker or 
high street bank; or
•	 through telephone or online services.
In order to sell your shares in this way, you 
will need to present your share certificate 
at the time of sale.
Manage  
More onl Ine
You can view and manage your 
shareholding online. Go to the 
electronic communications 
section of the Shareholder 
Centre on our website at 
centrica.com/shareholdercentre
 
Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA,  
United Kingdom
Telephone:	0871	384	2985*	and	outside	the	UK	 +44	121	415	7061
Textphone:	0871	384	2255*	and	outside	the	UK	 +44	121	415	7028 
Online:	https://help.shareview.co.uk	
*  Calls to this number cost 8 pence per minute plus network extras. Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm,  
Monday to Friday, UK time.
Conta Ct 
eq UInIt I
Contact details for our registrar  49 Centrica plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements 2012
Shareholder Information
Shareholder communication
Changes in legislation have meant it is now 
possible for us to communicate to a 
greater extent with shareholders using our 
website. We strongly encourage our 
shareholders to receive communications 
electronically as it allows us to make 
considerable savings, both environmentally 
and	financially,	and	allows	you	to:
•	 view the Annual Report and Annual 
Review on the day they are published;
•	 receive an email alert when shareholder 
communications are available;
•	 cast your AGM vote; and
•	 manage your shareholding quickly and 
securely.
In April 2012, together with Equiniti, we 
introduced an electronic queries service to 
enable our shareholders to manage their 
investment	24/7.	Since	then	Equiniti	have:
•	 addressed 2,000 queries using the 
electronic queries service;
•	 handled over 19,500 calls; and
•	 completed 150,000 transactions.
Details of this service can be found at 
shareview.co.uk.
A wealth of other information is available on 
our	website,	including:
•	 regular updates about our business;
•	 comprehensive share price information;
•	 financial results; and
•	 dividend payment dates and amounts.
Share repurchase programme
On 4 February 2013, the Company 
announced it would launch a £500 million 
share repurchase programme over the 
next 12 months. Further information is 
available from the Shareholder Centre on 
our website.
Beware of share fraudsters
Shareholders are cautioned to be very 
wary of any unsolicited advice, offers  
to buy shares at a discount, sell your 
shares at a premium or offers of free 
company reports.
Centrica is aware that some of its 
shareholders have recently received 
unsolicited phone calls or letters from 
individuals or companies offering to buy  
or sell Centrica shares on very favourable 
terms. These communications imply a 
connection with Centrica and are often 
from overseas based ‘brokers’ who are 
very persuasive and extremely persistent, 
with professional websites to support their 
activities. The Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) report that such scams cost investors 
in excess of £200 million each year.
If you do receive such an approach, you 
are	encouraged	to	take	the	following	steps:
•	 obtain the full name of the person and 
organisation and make a record of any 
other information they give you, for 
example telephone number, address, 
web address;
•	 if the caller persists, simply hang up; and
•	 report the matter to the FSA so that they 
can investigate.
You are able to do this online at  
fsa.gov.uk/consumerinformation/
scamsandswindles or by calling them on 
0845 606 1234*.
You are advised to deal only with financial 
services firms that are authorised by the 
FSA. Check the firm is properly authorised 
by the FSA before getting involved by 
visiting fsa.gov.uk/fsaregister. If you do 
deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not 
be eligible to receive payment under the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
if anything goes wrong. 
Details of any share-dealing services  
that Centrica endorses are available  
on our website and are included in 
Company mailings.
* Call rates may vary.
Disclaimer
This Annual Review does not constitute an invitation to 
underwrite, subscribe for, or otherwise acquire or dispose of 
any Centrica shares or other securities.
This Annual Review contains certain forward-looking 
statements with respect to the financial condition, results, 
operations and businesses of Centrica plc. These statements 
and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate 
to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in 
the future. There are a number of factors that could cause 
actual results or developments to differ materially from those 
expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and 
forecasts.
Past performance is no guide to future performance and 
persons needing advice should consult an independent 
financial adviser.
Financial Calendar
24 April 2013 Ex-dividend date – 2012 final dividend 
26 April 2013 Record date – 2012 final dividend 
13 May 2013 AGM, Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, London SW1 (at 2pm) 
12 June 2013 Payment date – 2012 final dividend 
31 July 2013 2013 half year results
13 November 2013* Payment date – 2013 interim dividend 
* Provisional
 
If you would like this Annual Review in an alternative format,  
such	as	large	print,	Braille	or	CD,	you	can	request	these	in	the	following	ways:
Telephone:	0800	111	4371	Textphone:	18001	0800	111	4371
Please note that these numbers should be used to request copies of alternative 
formats only. For general shareholder enquiries, please use the Centrica shareholder 
helpline 0871 384 2985*.
*  Calls to this number cost 8 pence per minute plus network extras. Lines are open from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm,  
Monday to Friday, UK time.
Accessibility Centr ICa pl C
Registered	office:	Millstream,	 
Maidenhead Road, Windsor,  
Berkshire SL4 5GD
Company registered in England  
and Wales No. 3033654
centrica.com
This report is printed on Revive 100 Silk  
which is made from 100% recycled post-
consumer fibre that is Totally Chlorine Free. 
This paper has been independently certified 
according to the rules of the Forest 
Stewardship Council (FSC
®
).
Designed and produced by 
Photography by David Hares, Mike 
Abrahams, Igor Emmerich, Charlie Fawell  
and David Partner. 
Printed by CPI Colour Limited  
ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral
®
.
