 Charles Taylor plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Professional Services
for the insurance market Charles Taylor plc is a leading international provider of 
professional services to clients in the global insurance market.  
We have been providing services to insurance clients since 1885 
and today have nearly 930 staff in 48 ofﬁces spread across 24 
countries in the UK, the Americas, Asia Paciﬁc, Europe and the 
Middle East.
The Group offers services across the global insurance market, 
principally on a fee based model and operates through three 
Professional Services businesses – Management, Adjusting and 
Insurance Support Services. We also own insurers in run-off.
Our vision is to become the professional services provider  
of choice to the global insurance market.
Overview
1 Business highlights
2 At a glance
4 Chairman’s Statement
Business Review
6 Group Chief Executive 
Officer’s Statement
8 Group Chief Executive 
Officer’s strategic update
10 Business model
11 How we measure 
performance
12 Group Chief Financial 
Officer’s Report
14 Professional Services 
review
15 Management Services 
business
16 Adjusting Services 
business
17  Insurance Support 
Services business
18 Insurers in Run-off 
business
19 How we manage risk
Governance
22 Board of directors
24 Corporate Governance
28 Remuneration Committee 
Report
37 Audit Committee Report
39 Corporate Social 
Responsibility
40 Directors’ Report
43 Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement
Financial Statements
44 Independent Auditor’s 
Report
45 Consolidated Income  
Statement
46 Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
47 Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
48 Company Balance Sheet
49 Cash Flow Statements
50 Consolidated Statement  
of Changes in Equity
51 Company Statement  
of Changes in Equity
52 Notes to the Financial  
Statements
Other Information
90 Five Year Record
91 Shareholder Information
92 Financial Diary
93 Charles Taylor Offices Charles Taylor plc
1
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview
Business 
highlights
– Increase in Group revenues.
– Group adjusted profit before tax stable, increase in statutory profit 
before tax.
– Adjusted earnings per share marginally down, increase in statutory 
earnings per share.
– Good progress in Management Services and Insurers in Run-off. 
Insurance Support Services perform in line with prior year.
– Adjusting Services profit down due to a market-wide fall in the number 
of larger, more complex insurance claims, particularly in energy, 
combined with increased expenditure on new staff and offices.
– Ongoing initiative to drive down debt makes good progress.
– Continued progress in implementing growth strategy.
– Final dividend of 6.75p, maintaining the full year dividend at 10.00p.
Revenue
£108.2m
Statutory profit before tax
£7. 1m
Statutory earnings per share
16 .25p
Net debt
£29.5m
Professional Services profit
1
£9.8m
Adjusted profit before tax
1
 
£9.6m
Adjusted earnings per share
1
19.44p
Dividend per share
10.00p
(2011: £11.6m) (2011: £102.5m)
(2011: £34.0m)
(2011: 10.00p)
(2011: £6.4m)
–15.0%
+0.1%
+5.6%
reduced by 
13.4%
+0.0%
+10.9%
(2011: £9.6m)
(2011: 12.79p)
+27 .1%
(2011: 19.86p)
–2.1%
The adjusted ﬁgures exclude the following (£m): 2012 2011
Customer relationship intangible amortisation 1.3 1.8
Non-recurring costs (see GCFO report) – 1.0
Non-controlling interests before tax 1.2 0.4
Adjustments to proﬁt before tax 2.5 3.2
Tax on non-controlling interests (0.1) 0.2
Adjustments to earnings 2.4 3.4
1 Charles Taylor plc
2
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Professional Services Revenue
2012
37%
16%
47% Management Services
Adjusting Services
Insurance Support Services
Staff breakdown
2012
1
28%
16%
56% Management Services
Adjusting Services
Insurance Support Services
1 Excludes shared services teams.
At a glance
Charles Taylor is a leading 
international provider of professional 
services to clients in the global 
insurance market.
Australia
Belgium
Bermuda
Canada
China
Colombia
France
Greece
India
Indonesia
Republic of Ireland
Isle of Man
Italy
Japan
Republic of Korea
Malaysia
Mexico
Qatar
Singapore
Switzerland
Taiwan
UAE
UK
USA
We have nearly 
930 staff in 
48 ofﬁces 
spread across 
24 countries.
International offices Charles Taylor plc
3
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview
Our Professional Services businesses
Management Services
The Management Services 
business provides end-to-end 
management of insurance 
companies.
We deliver a complete 
outsourced management 
service covering every aspect 
of the companies’ operations 
from the marketing and 
management of underwriting 
and claims, to the provision of 
regulatory, accounting and 
administrative operations.
Adjusting Services
The Adjusting Services 
business provides loss 
adjusting services across four 
main sectors: energy, marine, 
aviation and non marine, along 
with marine average adjusting 
and technical support services. 
The business primarily focuses 
on larger and more complex 
commercial losses arising 
from major insured incidents 
and claims.
Our Run-off 
business
The Insurers in Run-off 
business owns insurance 
companies which are 
closed to new business 
and runs off their liabilities 
in an orderly manner. The 
business seeks tactical 
opportunities to acquire 
UK offshore life insurers 
in run-off.
Revenue
£m
5.3
2010 2011 2012
3.6
3.8
Revenue
2
£m
39.0
2010 2011 2012
34.6
32.6
Revenue
£m
50.3
2010 2011 2012
50.1
47.0
Revenue
2
£m
16.7
2010 2011 2012
16.8
18.3
Clients
 The Standard Club
 Signal Mutual
 Scala
Growth opportunities
 Grow mutual membership
 Introduce new products 
and services
 Identify opportunities for 
new insurance collectives
Growth opportunities
 Expand into new territories
 Extend service offering 
in each ofﬁce
 Recruit and retain top 
producing adjusters in 
existing ofﬁces
 Develop and retain next 
generation
Growth opportunities
 Expand claims 
management services
 Develop coverholder 
services
 Develop MGA services
 Secure more run-off 
servicing
 Explore niche opportunities
1 Excludes shared services teams.
2 2010 and 2011 revenue restated to 
reﬂect the transfer of some business 
lines between the Management 
Services and Insurance Support 
Services businesses.
Growth opportunities
 Explore opportunities to 
acquire niche offshore 
life companies in run-off
220 staff 
1
436 staff 
1
127 staff 
1
Insurance Support Services
The Insurance Support 
Services business provides 
professional services which 
enable our clients to select the 
speciﬁc stand-alone service 
they require:
 Managed Claims Service
 Coverholder Services
 Financial Reporting Service
 Managing General Agency  
Services (“MGA”)
 Run-off servicing
 Investment management
 Alternative risk services, 
including captive 
management and niche 
insurance covers Charles Taylor plc
4
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman’s 
Statement
Results
Revenue increased to £108.2m (2011: 
£102.5m). Group adjusted proﬁt before tax 
was £9.6m (2011: £9.6m), while Group 
statutory proﬁt before tax increased to 
£7.1m (2012: £6.4m). Adjusted earnings per 
share fell slightly to 19.44p (2011: 19.86p). 
Statutory earning per share rose to 16.25p 
(2011: 12.79p).
Our Professional Services businesses 
increased revenue although operating 
segment proﬁt fell. The Management 
Services business performed strongly, 
while the Insurance Support Services 
business showed a performance in line 
with the prior year. The Adjusting Services 
business revenue increased slightly, while 
operating segment proﬁt fell. This was as 
a result of an unusual and signiﬁcant 
market-wide fall in the number of larger, 
more complex insurance claims, 
particularly in energy, combined with 
increased expenditure on new staff and 
ofﬁces. This impacted the overall 
Professional Services business result.
Dividend
It is proposed that a ﬁnal dividend of 6.75p 
per share (2011: 6.75p) be paid on 24 May 
2013 to shareholders on the register on 
12 April 2013. When added to the interim 
dividend of 3.25p per share (2011: 3.25p), 
this results in the total dividend per share 
for the year being maintained at 10.00p 
(2011: 10.00p).
Gearing and cash ﬂow
Our initiative to drive down debt made 
good progress. A continued reduction in 
working capital levels in Adjusting Services 
and cash releases from the Alico life run-off 
business has resulted in net debt reducing 
to £29.5m (2011: £34.0m). This also 
contributed to free cash ﬂow increasing to 
£12.4m (2011: £7.9m).
“In 2012, we continued to make 
steady progress in delivering our strategy 
for growth despite difﬁcult market 
conditions for our Adjusting Services 
business. We also signiﬁcantly reduced 
the Group’s overall level of debt.” Charles Taylor plc
5
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview
Board
I am very pleased to welcome Tito Soso to 
the Group and the Board as Group Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer. Tito joined Charles Taylor 
on 1 October 2012 as interim Group Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer and was appointed to the 
permanent role on 16 January 2013. Tito 
has already made a positive contribution 
to the ﬁnancial management of the Group.
Julian Avery has informed me that he 
would like to retire from the Board during 
2013, at a date to be determined. Julian 
has been a signiﬁcant contributor as 
a member of the Board and has also 
been a highly effective Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. His input and 
advice will be missed.
Corporate governance
The Board remains committed to delivering 
high standards of corporate governance. 
We provide leadership for the Group in 
setting strategy, monitoring performance 
and ensuring that the appropriate 
resources are in place to meet our 
corporate objectives.
I would like to point to several areas which 
the Board chose to emphasise in its work 
during 2012. The Board spent a 
considerable amount of time assessing 
and testing new initiatives within the 
Group’s stated strategy. Through the 
Remuneration Committee, we put in place 
a comprehensive new structure for the 
remuneration of the executive directors. 
We undertook a comprehensive process 
for the selection of our new Group Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer. Finally, the Board 
considered a small number of larger 
acquisition opportunities in Professional 
Services during the year. None has met 
our  requirements.
Our Board has a broad and diverse range 
of skills and specialised knowledge, which 
enables us to achieve high standards of 
corporate governance, our approach to 
which is set out in full on page 24.
Current trading and outlook
Overall trading for the year has started 
satisfactorily for our Professional Services 
businesses. There are early indications 
of improved performance in Adjusting 
Services. Our Insurers in Run-off business 
is not anticipated to repeat the 
performance it achieved in 2012 when it 
beneﬁted from the Alico transfer. We are 
also taking steps to improve margins by 
reducing operating costs across the Group. 
Our result for the year has been achieved 
through the diligence and commitment of 
our highly professional team. I would like to 
thank all our staff for their hard work and 
commitment to the business throughout 
the year.
Rupert Robson
Chairman
19 March 2013
 Excellence
We recruit, retain, and develop 
highly skilled, technically excellent 
professional staff.
 Partnership
We have a partnership mind-set and 
work closely with our clients to deliver 
mutually beneﬁcial outcomes.
 Quality
We have a genuine pride in delivering 
high quality work. We live by our 
reputation in professional services 
and it is this focus on quality which 
underpins our offering to clients.
 Support
We work within a supportive, collegiate 
culture across the Group.
Our core values Charles Taylor plc
6
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Group Chief Executive 
Officer’s Statement
Our overall performance has demonstrated 
the resilience of our diversiﬁed business 
model, as the performance of our 
Management Services business and Isle of 
Man life run-off insurance business almost 
entirely offset the reduced earnings from 
our Adjusting Services business.
2012 performance
Professional Services
The Group’s core Professional Services 
businesses – Management, Adjusting and 
Insurance Support Services – continued to 
show positive momentum in terms of 
revenue, which was up 5% on previous 
year at £106.1m (2011: £101.4m). A strong 
performance in Management Services was 
offset by a lower result in Adjusting 
Services. As a result and with the 
continued investment in the Group’s 
capabilities, Professional Services 
operating segment proﬁt was £9.8m, 
down from £11.6m in 2011.
As I explained in our 2011 annual report, 
we moved a number of our business lines 
from Management Services to Insurance 
Support Services at the start of 2012 to 
better reﬂect the way the business is 
structured. Our results for the year are 
reported under this new structure, with the 
previous year’s ﬁgures restated to reﬂect 
the change where necessary.
Management Services: Revenue 
increased to £39.0m (2011: £34.6m) and 
operating segment proﬁt to £7.1m (2011: 
£5.7m). This good result reﬂects a positive 
performance by the business on behalf of 
our mutual insurance company clients, 
combined with a careful focus on 
expenses. We successfully launched new 
products and services, which hold out the 
prospect of future growth.
Adjusting Services: Revenue increased 
slightly to £50.3m (2011: £50.1m) while 
operating segment proﬁt was down to 
£2.7m (2011: £5.8m). The fall in operating 
segment proﬁt was a result of an unusual 
and signiﬁcant market-wide fall in the 
number of larger, more complex insurance 
claims, particularly in energy, combined 
with increased expenditure on new staff 
and ofﬁces. We believe these investments 
will give us a competitive advantage when 
market volumes recover. In fact there were 
“2012 has been a year of 
developments on many fronts for 
Charles Taylor. We have completed 
the ﬁrst full year of implementing our 
business strategy for growth and I am 
pleased to report that we have made 
real progress.” Charles Taylor plc
7
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review
Our vision is to become 
the professional services 
provider of choice to the 
global insurance market by:
 Building
a substantially larger Professional 
Services business in sectors where 
superior technical skills matter.
 Achieving
leading market positions for each of our 
businesses and expanding into growing 
economies and markets where we are 
currently underrepresented.
 Establishing
new services and associated revenue 
sources within our existing business 
model.
 Capitalising
on the opportunities for cross referral 
and business synergies between our 
businesses and across our international 
network.
signs of a slight pick-up in activity at the 
end of the year and in the ﬁrst months of 
2013, which give cause for cautious 
optimism.
Insurance Support Services: The 
business performed in line with prior year 
and continued to operate at break-even 
level. Revenue was steady at £16.7m  
(2011: £16.8m) and operating segment 
proﬁt was £0.1m (2011: £0.2m). We have 
taken steps to cut costs and continue to 
make progress in developing the business. 
We remain positive about its prospects.
Insurers in Run-off
The business delivered revenue of £5.4m 
(2011: £3.6m) and an operating segment 
proﬁt of £0.2m (2011: £0.7m loss). This was 
largely a result of the transfer of the Alico 
business, acquired in 2011, into our Isle of 
Man life run-off business. The transfer 
delivered a cash release in excess of the 
initial consideration paid. In line with our 
strategy to acquire offshore life insurers in 
run-off, we completed the acquisition of 
Global Life Assurance Limited in December 
2012. We also expect this business to be 
transferred into our Isle of Man run-off life 
business once Court approval is received 
in 2013. The transfer is expected to 
generate a cash release, but not of the 
magnitude achieved as a result of the 
Alico transfer.
Business strategy
We have made good progress on delivering 
our business strategy, which is set out in 
detail on pages 8 and 9. The strategy, 
introduced in December 2011, is to deliver 
growth in revenue, proﬁt and shareholder 
value by focusing on professional services. 
Our approach is to seek organic growth by 
capitalising on our areas of strength by 
offering related services to our clients, 
building our niche businesses to leadership 
positions, and by realising the signiﬁcant, 
unrealised potential for cross referral and 
joint working across the Group. We are well 
positioned for organic growth and believe 
the demand for the professional services 
we offer is substantial.
We also remain open to the idea of growing 
by entering new business lines or through 
targeted M&A activity. However, any 
initiative of this nature needs to be a good 
ﬁt strategically, culturally and ﬁnancially and 
none reached the high threshold we have 
set ourselves. While our focus is on 
professional services, we also see tactical 
opportunities to acquire UK offshore life 
insurers in run-off that we believe will 
provide near-term cash releases.
Outlook
The market for insurance services remains 
strong. I ﬁrmly believe that our reputation 
for delivering high quality professional 
services with technically excellent 
professional staff from our international 
network of ofﬁces puts us in a good 
position to deliver growth. Our business 
model, with diversiﬁed sources of revenue 
from our three Professional Services 
businesses and Insurers in Run-off, means 
we have the strength to absorb short-term 
volatility in earnings. Alongside our 
initiatives to drive growth, we are 
increasingly focusing on improving our 
operational efﬁciency and are taking action 
to remove costs from our businesses. 
We will continue to implement our 
strategic initiatives throughout 2013 and 
beyond and I remain conﬁdent about the 
Group’s prospects.
David Marock
Group Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
19 March 2013 Charles Taylor plc
8
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Group Chief Executive 
Officer’s strategic update
Charles Taylor has 
signiﬁcant competitive 
advantages in delivering 
professional services to 
insurers, their clients and 
advisers on a worldwide 
basis. Our Professional 
Services business strategy 
has three elements: 
Reinforce the foundations, 
Create growth in the core 
Professional Services 
businesses and Explore 
medium-term strategic 
options.
In 2012 our work to reinforce the foundations has 
delivered improved leadership structures, more 
effective coordination of marketing and business 
development and improved support for the 
businesses from our shared services teams.
Highlights of 2012
 Implemented improved business planning: We have 
developed and are implementing business plans across 
all our businesses.
 Created Global ICT and HR services teams: We provide 
more effective support services to our worldwide staff.
 Reduced working capital: We have made very good 
progress in improving the speed of invoicing and 
collecting unpaid bills – which is making a positive 
difference to the Group’s overall level of debt.
 Developed a new corporate identity: We now present the 
Group as a single organisation and have capitalised on 
our ability to work across many related insurance 
services.
Reinforce the foundations: 
strengthen the Group’s core 
capabilities and support services 
to underpin growth. Charles Taylor plc
9
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review
In 2012 we delivered an increase in revenue across the 
business. We introduced many effective initiatives to 
create growth in our core businesses with new 
products and services launched and new ofﬁces 
opened around the world.
Highlights of 2012
 Delivered strong performance for our mutual insurance 
company clients.
 Launched new products for our mutual insurance company 
clients: We launched new Kidnap and Ransom, Traders’ 
Transport Liability and Professional Liability covers for 
members of the Standard Club. We also launched a new 
run-off service for members of Signal Mutual, which has 
started to secure business with more in prospect.
 Opened new adjusting ofﬁces: We made good progress 
opening new ofﬁces where there is demand for our 
adjusting services. We opened our ﬁrst West Coast US 
adjusting ofﬁce in San Francisco and opened new ofﬁces in 
Colombia, to target the Latin American market. 
 Broadened adjusting services: We are now offering more 
adjusting services from our existing ofﬁces. This included 
the creation of a non marine team in Indonesia and the 
establishment of an energy team in the Middle East. 
 Developed new services in our Insurance Support Services 
business: We launched a new Managing General Agency 
(“MGA”) service to support the creation of new MGAs. We 
are also targeting increased live claims management work 
in the London market with the launch of our ‘Taylored 
Claims Management’ service. Both services have been 
received positively in the market.
 Built other new products and services on existing 
capabilities: We launched a European corporate bond fund 
to market investment services outside our core client base 
for the ﬁrst time.
Our Insurers in Run-off  
business strategy
Our primary focus is on building our Professional 
Services business. However, we are also seeking 
tactical acquisition opportunities in the offshore life 
insurance run-off sector while reducing our exposure 
to the non-life insurance run-off sector.
Highlights of 2012
 Integrated Alico acquisition into our Isle of Man life 
company, releasing cash and providing increased 
servicing business.
 Acquired Global Life Assurance Limited which will be 
incorporated into our Isle of Man life company.
 Disbanded our non-life run-off acquisition team in line with 
our decision not to acquire further non-life run-off 
insurance companies.
We remain open to the idea of growing the business 
by entering new business lines or through targeted 
M&A activity. However any initiative of this nature 
needs to be a good ﬁt strategically, culturally and 
ﬁnancially. We considered a number of opportunities 
in the last year, but none cleared the high threshold 
we set. We will continue to look at opportunities as 
they arise, but will only progress those that meet our 
requirements.
Create growth in the core 
Professional Services businesses: 
achieve leadership positions in all the 
Group’s businesses and develop new, 
closely related, insurance services.
Explore medium-term strategic 
options: develop new Professional 
Services business lines through joint 
ventures or M&A opportunities. Charles Taylor plc
10
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Technical skills
Location
Growth opportunities
Professional services
Client 
Relationships
Business model
We predominantly earn 
professional fees by providing 
services to the global insurance 
market.
Charles Taylor has a long established business model which 
generates reliable revenues through the delivery of professional 
services to insurers, their clients and advisers on a worldwide 
basis, predominantly on a fee-based model. We also create  
value through the consolidation and efﬁcient management of 
insurers in run-off. We are enthusiastic about the potential for  
long-term growth in the market for insurance services and aim  
to increase revenue and proﬁt from professional services 
principally through organic growth.
 Client relationships
 Professional services
We deliver highly regarded professional services to clients in 
the global insurance market. The Group offers services 
across the whole insurance company value chain and 
operates through three Professional Services businesses: 
Management, Adjusting and Insurance Support Services. 
We also own and provide professional services to insurance 
companies which are closed to new business.
 Technical skills
Our services are usually highly technical and specialist in 
nature and we differentiate ourselves through the quality of 
our people, their professional expertise, and their 
commitment to service excellence. Many of our professional 
staff are graduates or hold professional qualiﬁcations. Our 
senior employees also offer superior technical knowledge 
gained through many years’ practical experience.
 Location
Insurance is a global business and we have ofﬁces 
strategically located around the world to be near where our 
clients are based and to be able to provide our services 
where they are required. We have nearly 930 staff in 48 
ofﬁces spread across 24 countries in the Americas, Asia 
Paciﬁc, Europe and the Middle East.
 Growth opportunities
We aim to increase revenue and proﬁt from our professional 
services, principally through organic growth. We are 
enthusiastic about the potential for long-term growth in the 
market for insurance services. Global trade ﬂows will 
continue to grow, driving an increasing demand for 
insurance and the services that support insurers, insureds 
and their advisers. We believe that Charles Taylor is 
embedded within the fabric of the international insurance 
market and is well positioned to beneﬁt from these trends.
Charles Taylor is fundamentally a people 
business and our clients are at the heart of 
everything we do. We aim to always deliver 
the highest level of professional service to 
our clients and to act on their behalf quickly 
and effectively. Our commitment to quality 
is reﬂected in the strength of our client 
relationships, many of which have stood the 
test of time over many years of joint working.
How we create value Charles Taylor plc
11
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review
How we measure 
performance
Our key performance indicators show continued 
progress in increasing the revenue of the Professional 
Services businesses, stable adjusted proﬁt before tax and 
an ongoing improvement in working capital and net debt. 
+0.1 %
£m
9.6
2011 2012
9.6
Adjusted profit before 
tax
Adjusted proﬁt before tax is 
proﬁt before tax excluding 
customer relationship 
intangible charges, pre-tax 
non-controlling interests and 
non-recurring costs.
–2. 1 %
Adjusted earnings 
per share
pence
19.44
2011 2012
19.86
Adjusted earnings per share 
is explained in note 11 to the 
Financial Statements.
Net debt
£m
2011 2012
29.5
34.0
13.4 %
reduced by
Net debt is explained in note 
20 to the Financial 
Statements.
Interest cover
times
2011 2012
5.5
5.7
–0.2 times
Interest cover is adjusted 
proﬁt from operations plus 
interest receivable and similar 
income divided by ﬁnance 
costs.
+57 .1 %
Free cash flow
£m
2011 2012
12.4
7.9
Free cash ﬂow is net cash 
from operating activities less 
movement in client monies, 
deferred consideration 
payments to third parties, 
expenditure on acquisition of 
tangible and intangible 
assets, plus disposal 
proceeds and interest 
received.
Group
+4.6 %
Revenue
£m
2011 2012
106.1
101.4
Our policy for revenue 
recognition is explained in 
note 1 to the Financial 
Statements. 
–15.0%
Operating segment 
profit
£m
2011 2012
9.8
11.6
Operating segment proﬁt is 
adjusted operating proﬁt, 
before ﬁnance costs and tax. 
Operating segment 
profit margin
%
2011 2012
9.3
11.4
–2.1 % pts
Operating segment proﬁt 
margin is operating segment 
proﬁt as a percentage of 
revenue.
+0.3
Adjusting Services 
debtor
months
months
2011 2012
4.3
4.0
Debtor months is trade 
debtors divided by invoiced 
fees on a count back basis.
Adjusting Services 
work in progress
months
2011 2012
5.1
5.8
–0.7 months
Work in progress months is 
the value of unbilled time 
divided by the value of time 
recorded on a count back 
basis.
Professional Services Tito Soso Group Chief Financial Officer
Charles Taylor plc
12
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Group Chief Financial 
Officer’s Report
2012 2011
Professional 
Services
Insurers in 
Run-off
Eliminations/ 
Other Total
Professional 
Services
Insurers in 
Run-off
Eliminations/
Other Total
Revenue (£m) 106.1 5.4 (3.3) 108.2 101.4 3.6 (2.6) 102.5
Operating segment proﬁt (£m) 9.8 0.2 – 10.1 11.6 (0.7) – 10.9
Finance costs/other (£m) – – (1.7) (1.7) – – (1.7) (1.7)
Non-controlling interests before tax (£m) (0.2) 1.4 – 1.2 (0.3) 0.7 – 0.4
Adjusted proﬁt before tax (£m) 9.7 1.6 (1.7) 9.6 11.3 – (1.7) 9.6
Tax (£m) (1.8) 0.1 – (1.7) (1.6) (0.2) – (1.8)
Tax on non-controlling interests (£m) – (0.1) – (0.1) – 0.2 – 0.2
Adjusted earnings (£m) 7.9 1.6 (1.7) 7.8 9.7 – (1.7) 8.0
Adjusted earnings per share (p) 19.66 4.01 (4.23) 19.44 24.22 (0.08) (4.28) 19.86
Note: Small rounding differences arise in the total amounts above.
The results for the year are summarised in the table above and 
explained in more detail in the Professional Services review and 
the Insurers in Run-off review.
These adjusted ﬁnancial measures exclude acquired customer 
relationship intangible charges, material non-recurring items and 
non-controlling interests as set out in the table below: 
2012 
(£m)
2011 
(£m)
Statutory proﬁt before tax 7.1 6.4
Amortisation of customer relationship 
intangibles 1.3 1.8
Non-recurring items:
 CEO recruitment and transition costs – 0.7
 Loss on disposal of Crescendo – 0.3
Non-controlling interests before tax 1.2 0.4
Adjusted proﬁt before tax 9.6 9.6
The Group’s adjusted proﬁt before tax measure has been 
amended versus prior years to exclude non-controlling interests, 
as this better reﬂects the performance of the Group attributable to 
its shareholders.
Adjusted proﬁt before tax was in line with 2011, with the improved 
Insurers in Run-off result offsetting the lower proﬁt in Professional 
Services. Within Professional Services the good performance in 
Management Services could not wholly compensate for the lower 
result in Adjusting Services. Insurers in Run-off showed an 
improved result, with losses in Cardrow and Bestpark being 
mitigated by the large non-controlling interests in these 
companies.  Charles Taylor plc
13
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review
Statutory proﬁt before tax was £7.1m (2011: £6.4m). The £0.7m 
increase over 2011 results from the differences in divisional 
performance described above and from reduced non-recurring 
charges. 
Net debt, cash ﬂow and ﬁnancing
Net debt reduced by £4.5m over the year to £29.5m  
(2011: £34.0m) and free cash ﬂow increased to £12.4m (2011: 
£7.9m). These movements largely reﬂect the continued effort in 
improving working capital levels in the Adjusting Services 
business, as well as net cash distributions from our Insurers in 
Run-off business. Movements in net debt are summarised in the 
table below:
Since 
31 December 
2011 
(£m)
Since 
30 June 
2012 
(£m)
Opening balance 34.0 34.2
Term debt repayments (3.0) (1.5)
New debt drawdown (1.5) (3.2)
Other net debt reductions 29.5 29.5
At 31 December 2012 29.5 29.5
The Group’s principal banking facilities were agreed in January 
2009 for a ﬁve-year term, and outstanding senior term debt at 
year end was £13.0m. The Group also has £12.0m senior 
revolving credit facilities for general corporate purposes, £10.0m 
committed overdraft facilities in the UK and £6.3m overseas 
facilities. Total headroom on committed facilities at year end was 
£12.1m (including surplus cash). Interest rates are mostly linked to 
three-month LIBOR plus margins of 1.75–2.5%. The Group 
entered into an interest rate swap in early 2009 which ﬁxes LIBOR 
at 2.96% on the senior term loan facility for the ﬁve-year term. The 
availability of the senior term debt and revolving credit facility has 
been extended to 30 May 2014. The other facilities are renewed 
on an annual basis.
Operational efﬁciency
We are increasingly focused on improving operational efﬁciency 
and are taking action to remove costs from our businesses. These 
include reviewing the Group’s overall headcount, targeting savings 
in general expenses, introducing a central procurement capability, 
reducing professional fees and renegotiating property and IT 
infrastructure costs.
Retirement beneﬁt schemes
The retirement beneﬁt obligation in the Group balance sheet at 31 
December 2012 was £31.6m, compared to £34.8m at the 
previous year end, and £38.8m at 30 June 2012. The reduction in 
net obligation has been driven largely by a change in market 
conditions, employer contributions and investment gains. There 
are multi-year programmes in place to recover pension scheme 
deﬁcits fully on a regulatory funding basis and funding costs are 
reﬂected in management fees charged by the Group where 
appropriate. Employer contributions in the year were £3.6m 
(2011: £3.0m). 
Dividends
The proposed ﬁnal dividend for 2012 is 6.75p (2011: 6.75p) making 
the total dividend for the year 10.00p, the same full year dividend 
as in 2011.
Foreign exchange
The Group manages its exposure to foreign currency ﬂuctuations 
by use of forward foreign exchange contracts and options to sell 
currency in the future. The contracts open during the year and at 
the year end were to protect the Group’s exposure to movements 
between £sterling and the US$, the Singapore$ and the 
Canadian$. The US$ proﬁts of the Group were translated at 1.59 
in 2012 (2011: 1.60). The sensitivity of the Group’s results to 
movements in exchange rates is explained in note 25 to the 
Financial Statements. Results were not materially affected by 
movements in exchange rates between 2011 and 2012. 
Taxation
During 2012, the effective tax rate on statutory proﬁt was 24.1% 
compared to 28.4% in 2011, because in the prior year the 
statutory proﬁt was reduced by large non-recurring items, for 
which no tax credit was available. The underlying tax rate, which 
is calculated on adjusted proﬁt and excludes prior year 
adjustments and the recognition of new deferred tax assets, was 
19.8% (2011: 18.5%). The underlying tax rate was higher as a 
result of a larger proportion of proﬁts being generated in higher 
tax countries. 
Tito Soso
Group Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
19 March 2013 Charles Taylor plc
14
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Professional Services businesses
Professional  
Services review
Charles Taylor’s Professional Services businesses – 
Management, Adjusting and Insurance Support Services 
– delivered revenue of £106.1m, up from £101.4m in 
2011, with operating segment proﬁt of £9.8m, down 
from £11.6m in 2011.
The Management Services business performed well.  
The Adjusting Services business was impacted by the 
market-wide downturn in larger and more complex 
insurance claims, particularly in energy, combined with 
investment in new ofﬁces and senior adjusting staff. 
The Insurance Support Services business was steady.
Professional Services performance 2012
Revenue
2012 2011
Management Services £39.0m £34.6m
Adjusting Services £50.3m £50.1m
Insurance Support Services £16.7m £16.8m
Professional Services total £106.1m £101.4m
Operating segment 
proﬁt
2012 2011
Management Services £7.1m £5.7m
Adjusting Services £2.7m £5.8m
Insurance Support Services £0.1m £0.2m
Professional Services total £9.8m £11.6m
+4.6%
–15.0% Charles Taylor plc
15
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review
Sam Kendall-Marsden (third right), reviewing 
drilling operations to install anchor blocks to 
secure the Costa Concordia for winter.
Costa Concordia
When the cruise ship Costa Concordia 
struck a reef off the Italian island of 
Giglio in January 2012 with a 
regrettable loss of life, Charles 
Taylor’s P&I claims team responded 
immediately. The vessel was entered in 
the Standard Club, which insures the 
owners’ third party liabilities. Our P&I claims 
team, headed by Atlantic Syndicate Claims 
Director, Sam Kendall-Marsden, acted 
swiftly to work with the shipowner and local 
partners to put measures in place to 
protect the fragile environment, 
compensate passengers, and appoint 
salvage experts to remove the wreck.
“The Standard Club and its reinsurers are 
meeting the liability insurance costs of this 
very complex casualty,” said Sam 
Kendall-Marsden. “As the claims team our 
role is to minimise further losses and 
quickly and efﬁciently settle legitimate 
claims, while acting in the best interests of 
the club’s member and working with great 
sensitivity in a situation where people sadly 
lost their lives. This is a complex claim, 
including organising the biggest wreck 
removal operation ever undertaken.” The 
delicate operation to remove the wreck 
continues.
The Management Services 
business had a successful year.
Increased revenue to £39.0m
Grew Standard Club insured tonnage 
Launched new products for Standard Club 
members
Increased Signal Mutual membership 
Introduced new services for Signal members 
and the commercial market
The Management Services business 
provides end-to-end insurance 
management services to insurance 
companies. We deliver a complete 
outsourced management and operational 
service to our insurance company clients, 
reporting directly to their independent 
boards of directors. Our services cover 
every aspect of the companies’ 
operations from underwriting, claims 
management and delivery of safety 
services to regulatory, accounting and 
administrative operations, investment 
management, customer service, 
corporate governance and company 
secretarial services. We manage three 
mutual insurance companies: the 
Standard Club, Signal and SCALA.
The Management Services business had a 
successful year. Revenue increased to £39.0m 
(201 1: £34.6m) and operating segment proﬁt to 
£7 . 1m (201 1: £5.7m). This good result reﬂects a 
positive performance by the business on behalf of 
our mutual insurance company clients, combined 
with a careful focus on expenses incurred in 
running the businesses.
We are remunerated by fees to manage the 
mutual insurance companies. Growth in the size 
of the mutuals, the number and extent of services 
we deliver and the volume of work involved 
generally lead to growth in management activities 
and hence the level of management fees. The 
underlying foundations and performance of the 
three mutual insurance companies are strong 
– providing a positive long-term indicator of the 
Management Services business.
Management Services – UK/International
Standard Club: our work for the Standard Club 
delivered a positive result for the mutual. The club 
provides protection and indemnity insurance 
to around 9% of world shipping. Members are 
attracted by the club’s ﬁnancial strength and 
quality of service. At the annual insurance renewal 
in February 2012, insured tonnage increased 
slightly year on year to 124m gt. This increased 
further during the year and by 31 December stood 
at 131m gt, largely from increased entries in the 
club by existing members but also reﬂecting the 
addition of new members. Total calls (which are 
the equivalent of insurance premiums) for the 2012 
policy year, net of reinsurance, were US$221m. 
The club has also seen an increase in its free 
reserves, which are expected to reach a record 
level of around US$360m by the club year-end in 
February 2013.
Joe Roach Executive Director (left)
Alistair Groom Executive Director (right)
In line with our business plan objectives, we have 
launched new insurance products for Standard 
Club members, which have already been bought 
by a number of club members. We anticipate 
these products will deliver growth over time for 
the club once established in the market. We 
believe the new products will be attractive to 
shipowners familiar with the quality and reputation 
of the Standard Club and of Charles Taylor. We 
have continued our commitment to training and 
development, supporting 23 staff through the 
P&IQ professional qualiﬁcation.
Management Services – Americas
The Management Services – Americas business 
had a successful 2012.
Signal Mutual: Charles Taylor has been manager 
of Signal Mutual, the largest provider of Longshore 
workers’ compensation insurance to the US 
maritime industry, since it was founded. Six new 
member companies joined Signal Mutual for the 
2012/13 membership year which commenced 
on 1 October 2012. 98% of existing members 
renewed their workers’ compensation insurance 
with the mutual and total membership has now 
reached 229 companies. The total payroll of 
the member companies, on which calls are 
calculated, is projected to exceed US$3 billion 
for the ﬁrst time in the association’s history, 
reﬂecting the value of the mutual proposition 
and the strength of the member companies in a 
challenging business environment. Total calls for 
the year should be around US$200m.
We made good progress on our business plan 
objectives. During 2012 we introduced a new 
Run-off Service, enabling members of Signal to 
transfer self-insured run-off liabilities to the mutual. 
The new service has already been taken up by 
one member. We also developed a new Safety 
Management Service which combines the skills 
of our teams from Signal and risk management 
and offers the highly regarded safety services we 
provide to Signal members to the commercial 
market.
SCALA provides workers compensation to the 
majority of Canada’s shipowners. The mutual 
delivered a steady performance during 2012. Total 
calls for the year were Canadian $5.8m. Charles Taylor plc
16
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Building our 
adjusting network
International insurance markets demand 
the highest standards of expertise, 
innovation and service from their adjusters. 
In many jurisdictions insurers only have 
access to a limited pool of qualiﬁed 
adjusters. This was the catalyst for us to 
expand our network into under-served 
geographies. In 2012, we opened our ﬁrst 
ofﬁce in Latin America and entered the non 
marine adjusting market in Indonesia.
“In Indonesia we recruited a large non 
marine team in Jakarta,” said Joe 
McMahon, Chairman, Charles Taylor 
Adjusting. “The team could have set up 
their own business, but they could see the 
advantage in being part of Charles Taylor. 
We provide the credibility and access to 
expertise to adjust larger, more complex 
international claims. This is already proving 
successful with our non marine team 
winning signiﬁcant instructions following the 
Indonesia ﬂoods, including a major 
multi-million claim from an international 
insurer.”
We also made a strategic move to grow our 
adjusting business in Latin America by 
opening an ofﬁce in Colombia. We recruited 
strong teams with the capability of handling 
aviation, energy, marine and non marine 
claims, including the management and staff 
of a leading Colombian non marine loss 
adjuster together with a leading Colombian 
aviation loss adjuster. “Colombia is 
strengthening its position as a regional hub 
for the insurance industry in Latin America,” 
said Felipe Ramirez, Latin America Director, 
Charles Taylor Adjusting. “Before we 
opened in Colombia, there were few loss 
adjusting ﬁrms that were resourced to meet 
the needs of international insurance 
markets. We are already beneﬁting from 
new instructions in Latin America and 
London as a result.”
The Adjusting Services 
business provides loss adjusting 
services across four sectors: 
energy, marine, aviation and non 
marine and average adjusting 
services for shipowners. 
Slight increase in revenue to £50.3m 
(2011: £50.1m)
Fall in the number of larger, more complex 
insured losses across the market
Uplift in claims activity at the year end
Investment in new offices in Colombia and San 
Francisco and senior fee-earning adjusters
Extended the range of services offered by our 
adjusting offices
Won two London market awards for the best 
claims team
The business focuses on larger and more 
complex claims arising from major 
onshore and offshore energy incidents, 
maritime casualties, aviation claims, 
large infrastructure losses, ﬁnancial 
institution frauds and other property and 
casualty losses.
Revenue increased slightly to £50.3m  
(201 1: £50. 1m) while operating segment proﬁt was 
£2.7m (201 1: £5.8m). The fall in proﬁt was the result 
of an unusual and signiﬁcant market-wide fall in the 
number of larger, more complex insurance claims, 
particularly in energy, combined with increased 
expenditure on new staff and ofﬁces.
This is consistent with what we reported at the 
interims where we highlighted that Adjusting 
Services delivered a lower ﬁrst half result due 
to a signiﬁcant fall in the number of larger, more 
complex insured losses and that the full year result 
would be dependent on the incidence of major 
events. This downturn continued into the second 
half.
We continued to attract a good overall ﬂow of new 
instructions across the board delivering stable 
revenue for the year. We also continued to invest in 
new staff, ofﬁces and improved business systems 
in line with our business plan objectives, which 
increased total expenditure. We are conﬁdent this 
investment in new and improved capabilities will 
position us well to grow our revenues and proﬁts 
in the future.
Overall, the business is well-positioned to beneﬁt 
from any increase in large and complex claims 
activity in the Lloyd’s and London insurance 
markets. We saw early signs of an uplift in claims 
activity at the year end, particularly as a result of 
claims from Hurricane Sandy, which hit New York 
and the north-east coast of the United States 
in late October 2012, and claims resulting from 
ﬂoods in Australia and Indonesia.
Our aviation business delivered a small increase 
in revenue but a lower proﬁt. It was held back by 
an increase in staff costs in some ofﬁces and by 
the overall level of claims in a year that was widely 
described as the safest for air travel. Energy is the 
largest of our adjusting lines and remained the 
leading contributor to our overall adjusting result, 
Joe McMahon Chairman (left)
Arthur Clarke Chief Executive Ofﬁcer (right)
but was impacted by the downturn in large and 
complex losses. In 2012, our energy team won 
the Cuthbert Heath Award at the Insider Honours, 
and the Insurance Day Claims Team of the Year 
at the London Market Awards for our innovation, 
technical expertise and efﬁcient management 
of one of the largest energy insurance claims to 
impact markets in recent years. Marine had a solid 
year, increasing revenue and performing well in 
the UK and Asia. Our non marine business was 
slightly behind the previous year, but beneﬁted 
from an increase in instructions at the year end.
During the year we continued to expand our ofﬁce 
network into new territories and regions where 
there is a demand from global or local insurance 
markets. In the second half we opened an ofﬁce 
in Colombia and recruited a strong team with the 
capability of handling aviation, energy, marine and 
non marine claims giving us strong local market 
contacts and a highly regarded group of specialist 
adjusters in the region. We also opened a loss 
adjusting ofﬁce in San Francisco to capitalise on 
opportunities in the non marine market. At the 
interim we reported that we had entered into an 
agreement to acquire a loss adjusting business in 
Saudi Arabia and we are continuing with the due 
diligence process.
We have also taken steps to extend the range 
of services offered by our adjusting ofﬁces. We 
expanded our Indonesia operation, which has 
hitherto been a marine business, by adding a non 
marine team. We appointed a senior adjuster in 
Dubai to develop further our onshore and offshore 
energy loss adjusting capabilities in the Middle 
East.
We ﬁrmly believe in investing in training and 
education to develop the next generation of loss 
adjusters. During the year, we seconded junior 
adjusters between our Hong Kong, Indonesia, 
Singapore, Greece, London and Liverpool ofﬁces 
to broaden their experience and build their 
knowledge of different markets. We invested in 
training across all our adjusting business lines and, 
in particular, supported 14 of our marine adjusters 
through the Association of Average Adjusters 
examinations.
Professional Services businesses continued Charles Taylor plc
17
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review
Investment 
performance
Charles Taylor Investment 
Management (CTIM) provides 
investment management to the 
Standard Club and Signal Mutual.
CTIM was the best performing investment 
asset manager amongst the International 
Group of P&I clubs in the ﬁnancial years 
ending February 2011 and 2012. They were 
second in 2010. For the year ending 
February 2013 they again performed 
strongly, returning 6.6% – more than 2% 
ahead of benchmark.
During the past year CTIM has adopted a 
cautious approach with a high allocation to 
cash and an under-benchmark weighting in 
equities. The value at risk of the portfolio (a 
measure of the level of ﬁnancial risk within 
an investment portfolio over a speciﬁc time 
frame) was below that of the benchmark, 
making the risk adjusted performance even 
more impressive. “We diversiﬁed the ﬁxed 
income portfolio into emerging markets and 
inﬂation protected bonds whilst managing 
to navigate around the Eurozone sovereign 
debt crisis,” said Doug Jones, Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer.
CTIM investment management team (left to 
right): Jonathan Staples, Senior Investment 
Analyst, Christian Kent-Lemon, Compliance and 
Legal Ofﬁcer, Sameer Jadeja, Senior Investment 
Manager, Anastasia Grimaldi, Senior Investment 
Manager, David McClean, Investment Director. 
The team is headed by Doug Jones, Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer, pictured above.
The Insurance Support 
Services business provides 
professional support services to 
clients in the Lloyd’s, London and 
international insurance markets. 
Revenue steady at £16.7m (2011: £16.8m)
Insurance Services business behind new 
business targets resulting in a flat result for 
the year
Greater contribution to Insurance Services 
business from Lloyd’s static claims remit 
International life insurance run-off servicing 
performs well
Investment Management achieves top P&I 
investment performance
It delivers services to more than half of all 
Lloyd’s managing agents. It also delivers 
our non-life and offshore life run-off 
servicing services from London, Dublin 
and the Isle of Man. The business is a 
leading provider of third party life 
insurance administration on the Isle of 
Man and also includes our investment 
management, captive management and 
specialty risks business lines.
Insurance Support Services revenue was steady 
at £16.7m (201 1: £16.8m), and the business 
delivered a break even result with operating 
segment proﬁt of £0. 1m, marginally behind the 
previous year (201 1: £0.2m).
Charles Taylor Insurance Services (“CTIS”)
provides outsourced back ofﬁce insurance 
services to the Lloyd’s, London and international 
insurance markets. It is the largest part of the 
Insurance Support Services business. It delivered 
an improved ﬁrst half performance with a greater 
contribution from our remit to reduce the number 
of static claims in Lloyd’s, which is helping the 
market to build on its reputation for fast and fair 
claims handling. We also saw a small upturn in 
business from our Financial Reporting Services 
business as a result of more active marketing. Our 
cover holder and broker underwriting services 
performed in line with the previous year.
In the second half the business fell behind on its 
new business development targets, resulting in a 
ﬂat result for the year. We have strengthened our 
sales and marketing capability and have taken 
further steps to cut costs in the business, both of 
which initiatives we believe will help performance in 
2013. We also invested considerable effort in 2012 
developing our new Managing General Agency 
and ‘Taylored Claims Management’ services. 
These new services will be a signiﬁcant focus of 
our sales and marketing activity in 2013.
Stephen Card Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, CTIS (left)
Jeffrey More  Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, LCL Services  
(life run-off servicing) (middle)
Doug Jones Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, CTIM (right)
Other Insurance Services
The offshore life run-off servicing business 
improved on last year, beneﬁting from further 
work following the acquisition of Alico. Global 
Life Assurance, which was acquired by Charles 
Taylor in the second half was already a client of the 
business. The investment management business 
maintained its successful investment performance 
record for our major clients. As announced at the 
interim, the investment management business 
also launched a bond fund in association with 
an independent asset manager as our ﬁrst move 
to target investment business outside our core 
client base. Our captive management business 
performed well in Bermuda and our small US risk 
consulting business delivered an improved result 
on 201 1. Charles Taylor plc
18
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The Insurers in Run-off 
business owns life and non-life 
insurance companies which are 
closed to new business and runs off 
their liabilities in an orderly 
manner. It is supported by our 
Insurance Support Services 
business, which provides it with 
run-off servicing.
The business owns a life insurance 
company in the Isle of Man which 
acquires and integrates UK offshore 
life insurers in run-off. It enjoys a 
strong market position, being a 
leading offshore life business actively 
acquiring these businesses (offshore 
life insurers). It also owns two non-life 
insurance companies in the UK, and 
one non-life company in the Republic 
of Ireland.
The Insurers in Run-off business performed 
strongly, with revenue of £5.4m (2011: 
£3.6m) and an operating segment proﬁt of 
£0.2m (2011: £0.7m loss). This result 
included a contribution following the 
acquisition of Alico, which we do not 
expect to be repeated in the following year.
Offshore life run-off
The transfer of the Alico Isle of Man 
business, acquired by the Group in 
November 2011, completed during the 
second half of 2012 releasing signiﬁcant 
cash. In line with our strategy to acquire 
offshore life insurers in run-off, we 
completed the acquisition of Global Life 
Assurance Limited in December 2012. We 
also expect this business to be transferred 
into our Isle of Man run-off life business 
once Court approval is received. The 
transfer is expected to generate a cash 
release, but not at the level following the 
Alico transfer.
Non-life run-off
The three mature non-life run-off 
companies owned by the Group continue 
to run off. Although two of the companies 
suffered adverse claims experience during 
the year, the results are largely attributable 
to non-controlling interests and thus only 
have a minimal impact on the Group. We 
do not plan to make further non-life run-off 
acquisitions.
Insurers in Run-off performance 2012
2012 2011
Revenue £5.4m £3.6m +49.9%
Operating segment proﬁt £0.2m –£0.7m n/a
Professional Services businesses continued Charles Taylor plc
19
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review
The Group’s risk management 
systems are designed to manage 
the risk of failing to achieve our 
business objectives. We have 
established a continuous process 
for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the principal risks we face.
Damian Ely Group Chief Operating Ofﬁcer
Our systems of internal control, which 
combine risk management, compliance 
and internal audit report to the Group 
Board through the Audit Committee.
The Board, management and the Group’s 
businesses regularly review the risks and 
controls in the Group’s risk registers. These 
reviews are tracked and monitored so that 
risk mitigation actions are completed in a 
timely manner. The internal audit team 
undertakes regular reviews of the risks 
highlighted in the risk register and inspects 
systems, processes and practices across 
the Group’s ofﬁces on an ongoing basis. A 
full explanation of our risk management 
processes is set out on page 26.
The Group’s risks reﬂect the fact that our 
activities largely involve providing 
professional services to global insurance 
markets. We do not underwrite new 
insurance risks on our own account and 
the risks we take in relation to run-off 
insurance are, where possible, limited by 
deferred consideration mechanisms, 
reinsurance and other risk management 
measures. The principal risks fall into the 
four categories of business, ﬁnancial, 
information technology and regulatory 
compliance risks.
How we manage risk
Type of risk Risk description Risk mitigation
Revenue 
concentration
Around 35% (2011: 33%) of the Group’s 
revenues are derived from our management 
of the Standard Club and Signal Mutual.
We invest signiﬁcant senior time and resource in client 
relationship management to ensure that we meet our 
clients’ needs.
Mutual management is a very long-term relationship with 
deep connections between the manager and the mutual, 
which provides opportunities to identify and address any 
potential issues at an early stage.
Our strategy to grow and diversify our Professional 
Services businesses across the insurance market will dilute 
revenue concentration over time.
Service quality As a Professional Services business our 
reputation and the potential for repeat 
business is dependent on the delivery of a 
quality work product.
We embed procedures and conduct training to reduce 
the risk of failure to provide services to a high standard. 
Service levels are monitored and control processes are 
regularly reviewed, including procedures for supervision 
and peer review of work. We purchase professional 
indemnity insurance to mitigate the ﬁnancial impact of 
claims that may arise.
1. Business risks Charles Taylor plc
20
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
1. Business risks continued
Type of risk Risk description Risk mitigation
People All our businesses depend on experienced 
and well qualiﬁed professionals to deliver 
our services. Loss of business could 
result from individuals or teams leaving for 
competitors.
We ensure that remuneration and beneﬁts, career 
opportunities, working conditions and staff recruitment 
processes are carefully reviewed and implemented to 
ensure that suitable personnel are attracted to work in the 
Group and are retained. 
Geographical 
spread and 
range of  
services
The Group has a large number of business 
units, business lines and widespread ofﬁce 
locations. There is a risk that we could fail to 
properly manage one area of the business 
or identify a breakdown in the management 
reporting.
We have established clear budgetary and other ﬁnancial 
control processes within the management of business 
units. Organisation structures are planned to ensure that 
control is maintained and that business units are managed 
by personnel of suitable quality and experience.
Our senior management and internal audit team maintain 
contact with all businesses, both through the business 
management structure and directly. 
2. Financial risks
Type of risk Risk description Risk mitigation
Liquidity Cash inﬂow may be insufﬁcient to cover 
outgoings, or outgoings may be planned 
at an unaffordable level. Banking facilities 
might be withdrawn or not renewed. 
Reﬁnancing may not be secured for 
amounts outstanding when a facility expires. 
Facility headroom may be insufﬁcient.
We carefully manage working capital and monitor relevant 
performance indicators in order to identify and take 
appropriate management steps.
Further information on management of liquidity and 
foreign exchange risks is given in note 25 to the Financial 
Statements. There are regular cash ﬂow forecasts to 
project the future funding position and to monitor expected 
headroom against banking facilities and covenants.
Pensions The Group operates four deﬁned beneﬁt 
pension schemes. We face the risk that the 
outstanding pension scheme deﬁcits may 
need to be funded within a short timescale.
The condition of the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt pension 
schemes is regularly monitored. There is regular dialogue 
between the Group and the schemes’ trustees covering 
investment policy and an assessment of asset and liability 
risks. All the deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes are closed 
to new members and the largest scheme was closed to 
future accrual from 2011. Pensionable salary increases are 
capped by reference to inﬂation. Trustees and employer 
negotiate funding formally every three years.
Credit exposure We are exposed to credit risks when work 
is performed for clients who do not pay in 
advance and when funds are deposited with 
ﬁnancial institutions.
Credit risk is managed by monitoring and managing 
counterparty exposure and by conventional credit control 
procedures.
We continue to take steps to reduce working capital 
requirements in our Adjusting Services business.
Our major mutual clients pay fees in advance for our 
services.
Financial 
reporting
Errors in ﬁnancial reporting expose us to 
the risk that our senior management is 
materially misinformed and is unable to take 
action in response to ﬁnancial trends and 
variances.
Review processes in place to prevent and detect errors in 
management information and in published accounts and 
other published ﬁnancial information.
How we manage risk continued Charles Taylor plc
21
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review
3. Information technology risks
Type of risk Risk description Risk mitigation
Major IT system 
failure
We rely on IT systems to deliver services to 
our clients and would be severely impacted 
by a major systems failure.
The Group continues to invest in strengthening its disaster 
recovery systems and identifying ways to reduce its system 
failure risk.
Information 
security
We are exposed to security breaches either 
from hacking by an external party or the 
action of an employee.
A variety of measures exist to maintain the Group’s 
information security, including policies and technological 
solutions such as ﬁrewalls, backups and access controls.
4. Compliance and regulatory risks
Type of risk Risk description Risk mitigation
Compliance and 
regulatory risks
The Group’s services are subject to legal 
and regulatory control in many different 
jurisdictions worldwide. Failure to meet 
regulatory requirements could lead to ﬁnes 
or legal action against individuals and the 
Group.
The Group’s Compliance and Risk Committee monitors 
the Group’s compliance and risk activities. This includes 
ensuring that the Group’s regulated subsidiaries and 
functions performed on behalf of clients which are 
regulated entities continue to meet the relevant regulatory 
requirements. The Group regularly reviews its policies and 
procedures in relation to regulatory matters and to ensure 
appropriate training is conducted. Charles Taylor plc
22
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Board of 
directors
1. Rupert Robson
 1, 2
Chairman
Chairman Nomination Committee
Rupert was appointed to the Board on 1 
November 2007. He is currently Chairman of 
EMF Capital Partners and Chairman of Tullett 
Prebon plc. Previously he was a Non-Executive 
Director of OJSC Nomos Bank, LME Holdings 
Ltd and T enet Group Ltd, Managing Director, 
Global Head, Financial Institutions Group, 
Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets 
at HSBC plc and Managing Director, Head of 
European Insurance, Investment Banking at 
CitiGroup Global Markets. 
2. Julian Avery
 1, 2, 3
Non-Executive Director
Chairman Remuneration Committee
Julian was appointed to the Board on 3 
November 2008. He is also Chairman of Amati 
VCT 2 plc. He was previously a Director of Aspen 
Insurance Holdings Ltd, IAG Holdings UK Ltd, 
Warner Estate Holdings PLC and East Surrey 
Holdings plc, a member of the Council of Lloyd’ s, 
Chief Executive of Wellington Underwriting plc 
and Chairman of Equity Insurance Group. 
3. David Watson
 1, 2, 3
Non-Executive Director
Chairman Audit Committee
David was appointed to the Board on 19 May 
2010. He is also a Non-Executive Director of 
Hermes Fund Managers Limited and of Kames 
Capital plc. He was formerly Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer of Aviva General Insurance following 
a career of more than 30 years in a variety of 
companies in the ﬁnancial services industry 
including nine years as Group Finance Director of 
M&G Group Plc.
The Board is collectively responsible for 
the long-term success of the Group. It 
does this by providing entrepreneurial 
leadership whilst ensuring effective 
controls are established that enable the 
effective assessment and management of 
risk. The Board is ultimately responsible 
for the Group’s strategic aims and long-
term prosperity by ensuring that the right 
ﬁnancial and human resources are in place.
The day-to-day management and 
leadership of the Group is delivered by the 
Executive Committee, which includes the 
executive directors, heads of the Group’s 
businesses and the Group Company 
Secretary and General Counsel.
Key:
1 Nomination Committee
2 Remuneration Committee
3 Audit Committee
4. Julian Cazalet
 1, 2, 3
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Julian was appointed to the Board on 25 
September 2008. He is also Chairman of Herald 
Investment Trust plc, a Non-Executive Director of 
Deltex Medical Group plc and a Non-Executive 
Director of Private Equity Investor plc. He was 
previously a Managing Director of corporate 
ﬁnance at JPMorgan Cazenove, having been a 
Partner in Cazenove. 
5. Gill Rider
 1, 2, 3
Non-Executive Director
Gill was appointed to the Board on 25 January 
2012. She is also President of the Chartered 
Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), 
Chair of the University of Southampton Council 
and a Non-Executive Director of De La Rue plc 
and Pennon Group plc. Previously, she worked 
for Accenture for 27 years and was a member of 
the global Executive Committee for the last seven 
years. Most recently, she spent ﬁve years as 
Director General in the UK Government’ s Cabinet 
Ofﬁce and as Head of the Civil Service Capability 
Group. 
Leadership
Board of directors
Non-Executive Directors
1
2
4
5
3 Charles Taylor plc
23
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Board of directors and Executive Committee
Executive Directors
Executive Committee Executive Committee
6. David Marock
Group Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
David was appointed Group Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer and to the Board on 1 July 2011. He 
joined from specialist insurer Beazley plc, where 
he was Group Chief Operating Ofﬁcer, a member 
of the Group Executive Committee and on the 
Board of Beazley Furlonge Limited. He previously 
chaired the Xchanging Review Board and was 
on the Claims Service Review Board on behalf 
of the Lloyd’ s Market Association and a member 
of the Lloyd’ s Market Association Claims and 
Market Process Committees. Prior to that he 
was at McKinsey, advising ﬁnancial services 
clients on strategic, operational and corporate 
ﬁnance matters. David is a Fellow of the Faculty of 
Actuaries. He is a Director of The Standard Club 
Limited and The Standard Club (Europe) Limited.
7. Damian Ely
Group Chief Operating Ofﬁcer
Damian joined in 1988 to work as an underwriter 
in London in the Management Services business, 
primarily for Signal. In 1995 he transferred to 
the United States, ﬁrst as Senior Vice President, 
Signal and latterly as Chief Operating Ofﬁcer, 
Americas. He returned to the UK to take up the 
role of Group Chief Operating Ofﬁcer in 2005. 
He is a Director of Signal Mutual Indemnity 
Association Limited. He was appointed to the 
Board on 14 October 2005.
8. Tito Soso
Group Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Tito joined as Interim Group Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer on 1 October 2012 and was appointed to 
the Board on 16 January 2013. He joined from 
Investcorp’ s European Investment team where he 
was a Managing Director responsible for leading 
private equity transactions across Europe. In this 
role he held Non-Executive Director and acting 
CFO positions in a variety of portfolio companies. 
Prior to joining Investcorp, he was a member of 
the Corporate Finance practice of McKinsey, and 
before that spent eight years with the Schindler 
Group where he held various positions, including 
Finance Director in the UK and in Eastern Europe. 
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Ceme 
S.p.A. 
9. Alistair Groom
Co-head of Management Services business
Alistair joined the Group in 1977 and has 
held a variety of positions within the Group’ s 
Management Services business prior to being 
appointed Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of P&I in 2001. 
He served as a Deputy Chairman of the Group 
between 2003 and 2007 and as Chairman of the 
International Group of P&I Clubs. He is a Director 
of The Standard Club Limited and The Standard 
Club (Europe) Limited and Poseidon Insurance 
Company Pty Limited. He was appointed to the 
Board on 16 September 1996.
10. Joe Roach
Co-head of Management Services business
Joe joined the Group in 1995 and is Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer of both Charles T aylor Americas 
and Signal Administration Inc. Previously he 
was at McQueary and Henry Inc, an insurance 
broker and he worked until the end of 1995 
for Signal Administration Inc. (T exas), which 
provided marketing and risk selection services 
to Signal. He was a Deputy Chairman of the 
Group between 2006 and 2007. He is a Director 
of Signal Mutual Indemnity Association Limited. 
He was appointed to the Board on 11 February 
1997.
11. Stephen Card
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Charles Taylor 
Insurance Services
Stephen joined in 2010 as Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer of Charles T aylor Insurance Services. He 
is an insurance professional with over 35 years’ 
experience of broking and underwriting in the 
Lloyd’ s and London insurance market.
12. Arthur Clarke
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Charles Taylor 
Adjusting
Arthur joined in 2002 as Operations Director for 
CTC Services. Previously he was an Executive 
Director of Xchanging Claims Management 
formerly Lloyd’ s Underwriters Claims and 
Recoveries Ofﬁce. He has worked in the Lloyd’ s 
and London insurance market for over 30 years.
13. Ivan Keane
Group Company Secretary and General 
Counsel
Ivan joined in 1989 having previously worked as 
a solicitor in private practice. He has held a wide 
variety of senior executive roles within the Group, 
including working in P&I and other businesses, 
establishing and managing mutuals, and 
business development. He was appointed Group 
Company Secretary in 2005 and acts as Group 
General Counsel.
8
9 11
13
6
12 7 10 Charles Taylor plc
24
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate Governance
The Board is committed to high standards of governance. 
The Board provides leadership for the Group and is 
responsible for setting strategy, monitoring performance 
and ensuring that the necessary resources are in place to 
meet our objectives.
Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 
The Board has prepared this report with reference to the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”) published by the 
Financial Reporting Council in June 2010. A copy of the Code is 
available at the FRC’s website.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the good corporate 
governance of the Company and in so doing is committed to the 
principles outlined in the Code as well as compliance with the 
Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules. This report, together with the Statement of 
Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the annual report on page 
43, the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 28 to 36, the 
Audit Committee Report on pages 37 and 38 and the Financial 
Statements, describe how the main principles of good 
governance have been applied.
The Board is satisﬁed that the Company has fully complied with 
the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2012. 
Board composition and balance
The Board comprises the Chairman, four independent non-
executive directors and ﬁve executive directors and is collectively 
responsible for the long-term success of the Company. It does 
this by providing entrepreneurial leadership whilst ensuring 
effective controls are established that enable the effective 
assessment and management of risk. The Board is ultimately 
responsible for the Company’s strategic aims and the long-term 
prosperity of the Company by ensuring that the right ﬁnancial and 
human resources are in place.
The Group has a set of formal governance policies, which are 
reviewed annually and deﬁne the formal matters reserved for the 
Board.
The Board carries out its role by:
 overseeing the Group’s operations worldwide;
 providing input into and approval of management’s 
development of corporate strategy and performance 
objectives;
 approving budgets and monitoring progress against those 
budgets;
 monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal system of control;
 reviewing and ratifying the Company’s system of governance, 
compliance, risk management and internal audit; and
 appointing and removing, where appropriate, the senior 
executives of the Company.
The Board reviews all aspects of the Group regularly, including 
major commercial decisions, client relationships, operations, 
ﬁnancial performance and position, employee matters, company 
policies, compliance, risks, risk management and internal audit. 
This ensures that the Board is able to direct the management of 
the Company to the best of its ability and identify, address and 
resolve matters of importance in a timely manner.
The Board has delegated to management responsibility for:
 managing the Company’s day-to-day operations;
 developing the Company’s annual budget and recommending 
it to the Board for approval;
 managing the day-to-day operations within the budget;
 the development and maintenance of client relationships; and
 implementing corporate strategy and making 
recommendations on signiﬁcant corporate strategic initiatives.
There is a clear division of responsibilities on the Board. The 
Chairman is responsible for running the Board and the executive 
directors are responsible for running the Company. The non-
executive directors are responsible for exercising independent 
and objective judgement by constructively challenging proposals 
and recommendations in helping the Board to reach its 
decisions.
As Chairman, Rupert Robson is responsible for:
 leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all 
aspects of the Board’s role;
 setting the Board agenda and ensuring that the directors 
receive accurate, timely and clear information;
 oversight of the Company’s affairs and its strategy;
 facilitating openness and debate between the executive and 
non-executive directors;
 ensuring effective communication between the Company and 
its shareholders; and
 succession planning and the composition of the Board.
David Marock, as the Group Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, is 
responsible for:
 the day-to-day management of the Company;
 development and implementation of Company strategy; and  
 speciﬁc responsibility for major client relationships. 
Julian Cazalet is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 
who acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and an 
intermediary for the other directors where necessary. He is also 
an additional point of contact for shareholders if they have reason 
for concern and where contact through the normal channel of the 
Chairman has failed to resolve the concern or for which contact is 
inappropriate. 
The Nomination Committee and the Board regularly evaluate and 
consider the mix of skills, experience and diversity on the Board 
and are satisﬁed that these are appropriate to achieve the 
Company’s stated strategy and objectives.
All directors, whether executive or non-executive, have 
unrestricted access to the Group Company Secretary and 
General Counsel and executives within the Group on any matter 
of concern to them in respect of their duties. In addition, new 
directors are given appropriate training on appointment to the 
Board. Appropriate time is made during the year for continuing 
training on relevant topics concerning the functioning of the 
Board and the obligations of directors. The Company has  Charles Taylor plc
25
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
undertaken to reimburse legal fees to the directors if circumstances should arise in which it is necessary for them to seek separate, 
independent legal advice in furtherance of their duties.
At no time during the year did any director hold a material interest in any contract of signiﬁcance with the Company or any of its 
subsidiary undertakings other than a third-party indemnity provision between each director and the Company and service contracts 
between each executive director and the Company. The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year Directors’ and 
Ofﬁcers’ liability insurance in respect of itself and its directors. Details of directors’ remuneration, service contracts and interests in the 
shares of the Company are set out in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 28 to 36.
The non-executive directors, Julian Avery, Julian Cazalet, Gill Rider and David Watson, are regarded by the Board to be independent of 
the management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their material 
judgement notwithstanding their shareholdings held during the year, which are not considered by the Board to be signiﬁcant.
The Chairman, Rupert Robson, was considered independent upon his appointment in 2007, but is not considered to be independent 
by virtue of his appointment as Chairman. The letters of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered ofﬁce during normal business hours, and at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board has maintained procedures whereby potential conﬂicts of interest are reviewed regularly. The Board has considered the 
other appointments held by directors, details of which are contained in their biographies on pages 22 and 23, and on the Company’s 
website and consider that the Chairman and each director is able to devote sufﬁcient time to fulﬁl the duties required of them under the 
terms of their contracts or letters of appointment.
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee, which 
report back to the Board and are further described below. The terms of reference of each Committee are available in the investors 
section – Corporate Governance – of the Company’s website www.ctplc.com.
Directors’ attendance at the Board and committee meetings convened in the year was as follows:
Committee meetings
Board Audit Nomination Remuneration
Total number of meetings in 2012 8677
Number of meetings attended in 2012:
Rupert Robson – Non-Executive Chairman
1
8 –77
David Marock – Group Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 8–––
Damian Ely – Group Chief Operating Ofﬁcer 8–––
George Fitzsimons – Group Finance Director (resigned 31 October 2012) 6–––
Alistair Groom 8–––
Joe Roach III 8–––
Julian Avery – non-executive
2
7677
Julian Cazalet – non-executive
2
8667
Gill Rider – non-executive
2
 (appointed 25 January 2012) 8666
David Watson – non-executive
2
8677
1 Member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
2 Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
There are three management committees: the Executive Committee, the Finance Committee and the Group Compliance and Risk 
Committee, formed of executive directors or senior executives from the businesses, which meet on a regular basis to consider 
operational issues and commercial matters.
Board performance and evaluation
The performance of individual directors, the Board, its committees, and the Chairman is reviewed annually.
These performance reviews took into consideration whether or not the Board and its committees respectively had discharged their 
duties as set out in their terms of reference and whether their terms of reference in each case required updating or amendment. In 
order to evaluate the performance of the Board, each member of the Board was asked to complete a detailed questionnaire as well as 
having a meeting with the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. The responses to the questionnaires and the ﬁndings of these 
meetings were reviewed by the Chairman, who summarised the ﬁndings and discussed the output with the whole Board. Topics 
covered in the review of the Board included strategy, performance measurement, relationships with key stakeholders, risk management 
and the conduct and effectiveness of board meetings. The directors concluded that the Board had effectively discharged its duties 
during the year. Charles Taylor plc
26
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The Nomination Committee also considered the contribution of 
each of the executive directors and the Chairman considered the 
contribution of each of the non-executive directors. The non-
executive directors, excluding the Chairman, considered the 
contribution of the Chairman. The non-executive directors have 
met together without the executive directors as required by the 
Code.
The Company’s Articles of Association require that one-third of 
the directors offer themselves for re-election every year. 
Notwithstanding that as a small company, i.e. below FTSE 350, 
the Code does not require all the directors to be subject to annual 
re-election, the Board has decided that all directors should be 
subject to annual re-election and all directors will seek re-election 
at the Annual General Meeting on 2 May 2013 and in the future. 
The Board recommends the re-election of each of the directors.
Nomination Committee
Rupert Robson chairs the Nomination Committee, on which the 
Non-Executive Directors, Julian Avery, Julian Cazalet, Gill Rider 
and David Watson, also sit. In 2012, there were seven meetings of 
the Committee. 
All Board appointments are subject to a recommendation from 
the Nomination Committee, which takes into consideration, 
amongst other things, the make-up of the Board and its balance 
of skills and experience. The Board believes that an appointment 
to the Board should be based on merit and overall suitability for 
the role. The Group has formal policies to promote equality of 
opportunity, including gender in the UK and policies are being 
ﬁnalised in the US. The Nomination Committee typically engages 
recruitment consultants to assist with identifying suitable 
candidates to join the Board as directors.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the make-up, 
knowledge, diversity, balance of skills and independence of the 
Board. Gill Rider was appointed a Non-Executive Director at the 
beginning of the year, replacing Judith Hanratty, who had served 
since 2002. The Committee engaged recruitment consultants to 
assist in this appointment. The Committee engaged executive 
recruitment consultants to help identify a new Group Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer to replace George Fitzsimons, who resigned as 
Group Finance Director. The Committee also considered Board 
and senior management succession in the Company, governance 
issues, reviewed and revised the Board Governance Policies and 
made various recommendations to the Board. 
Remuneration Committee
Julian Avery chairs the Remuneration Committee, on which the 
non-executive directors, Julian Cazalet, Gill Rider, David Watson 
and Rupert Robson also sit. The Remuneration Committee 
Report is set out on pages 28 to 36. 
Audit Committee
David Watson chairs the Audit Committee. Non-executive 
directors, Julian Avery, Julian Cazalet and Gill Rider are 
members. David Watson and Julian Cazalet are considered by 
the Board to have recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience. The 
Audit Committee Report is set out on pages 37 and 38.
Financial and business reporting
The Board is responsible, in its reporting, for presenting a 
balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s 
ﬁnancial position and prospects and has complied with this main 
principle of the Code.
Full details of the Group’s business model setting out how the 
Group generates and preserves value is set out on page 10. The 
directors’ responsibilities for preparing the ﬁnancial statements 
and supporting assumptions that the Group is a going concern 
are set out on pages 43 and 40 respectively.
Risk management and internal control
The Board has applied the Main Principle C.2 of the Code by 
establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the principal risks the Group faces. These risks include 
strategic, operational, legal, regulatory, reputation and ﬁnancial 
risks. The Group’s risk management processes are designed to 
manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of the Group failing to 
achieve its business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, 
but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or 
loss.
The Group’s risk management systems are subject to continual 
review and development. The controls and processes are 
overseen by the Group Chief Operating Ofﬁcer and the Group 
Compliance and Risk Ofﬁcer in conjunction with the Group 
Compliance and Risk Committee. The Group’s compliance and 
risk management processes and systems are designed to ensure 
that management and the Group’s various business units 
regularly review the risks and controls in their risk registers and 
that the tracking and monitoring of outstanding risk mitigation 
actions or controls are actioned in a timely manner and properly 
followed up. The Group Compliance and Risk Committee reports 
on its work to the Audit Committee.
The principal risks facing the Company and the risk mitigation 
actions, controls and processes by which they are managed are 
explained in the report on the management of risks on pages 19 
to 21. The Audit Committee and the Board monitor and review 
the Company’s principal risks regularly along with the risk 
mitigation actions, controls and processes in place to manage 
those risks recorded in the risk register to ensure they are up to 
date and remain appropriate taking into account the changing 
circumstances in which the Company operates.
Further information on ﬁnancial risks is given in note 25.
The Group’s ofﬁces worldwide seek to have in place plans to deal 
with a range of eventualities, which may cause serious disruption 
to the Group’s businesses such as a ﬁre, a natural disaster or 
ﬂooding. These plans are also designed to cope with situations 
such as an outbreak of a pandemic. Business continuity planning 
arrangements, especially in respect to IT, have been developed to 
enable key ofﬁces around the world to have a business continuity 
capability. The Group’s business continuity arrangements were 
effectively tested when implemented in the aftermath of Hurricane 
Sandy, which caused major damage, ﬂooding and power 
Corporate Governance continued Charles Taylor plc
27
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
outages to businesses operating in the New York area and 
enabled our staff in those ofﬁces to continue serving our Group’s 
clients.
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal 
control, which consists of internal audit, compliance and risk 
management teams along with various control systems and 
procedures in each of the Group’s business units. The Board 
regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s system of 
internal control in accordance with the Code.
The Board continues to take steps to further embed internal 
control, compliance and risk management into the operations of 
the Group and monitor and review matters which come to 
management’s and the Board’s attention.
An internal audit team operates within the Group. The team is 
managed and led by a senior manager who reports directly to the 
Group Chief Operating Ofﬁcer and to the Audit Committee. The 
Audit Committee and the Board receive four reports each year 
summarising the ﬁndings of their audits together with a schedule 
of the outstanding audit issues and progress against their internal 
audit timetable.
The internal audit team is responsible for auditing the Company’s 
businesses worldwide. An audit timetable is approved by the 
Audit Committee at the beginning of the year and is subject to 
review throughout the year to monitor progress. The audit 
programme is focused around the Group’s principal risks and will 
also take into consideration amongst other things the operational, 
ﬁnancial and administrative aspects of the Company’s 
businesses, taking as their points of reference those businesses’ 
controls and procedures, the controls recorded in the risk register 
and any reported incidents. Some audits are occasionally carried 
out by external consultants or by staff from outside the internal 
audit team. The internal audit team’s effectiveness is reviewed 
annually by the Audit Committee.
The Board conﬁrms that the actions it considers necessary have 
been taken or are being taken to remedy such failings and 
weaknesses which it has determined to be signiﬁcant from its 
review of the system of internal control. This has involved 
considering the matters reported to it and developing plans and 
programmes that it considers are reasonable in the 
circumstances.
The external auditor’s reports to the Audit Committee includes 
their views as to the principal risks facing the Group from an audit 
perspective and how their audit approach seeks to address them 
and their ﬁndings.
The Group’s compliance obligations are overseen by the Group 
Compliance and Risk Ofﬁcer and the Group Compliance and 
Risk Committee, which reports to the Group Chief Operating 
Ofﬁcer. The Group Compliance and Risk Ofﬁcer submits a report 
to the Audit Committee four times a year, which includes details 
of any incidents reported by management where controls have 
either failed or nearly failed. The Group’s systems and controls 
are continually reviewed and enhancements made where 
appropriate, in light of reported incidents.
The UK regulated activities of the Group are primarily carried out 
through a subsidiary, Charles Taylor Services Limited, which is 
regulated in the UK as an insurance intermediary, and by Charles 
Taylor Investment Management Limited which is regulated as an 
investment manager, by the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”), 
in accordance with the requirements of the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (“FSMA”).
Certain subsidiary companies of the Group operate in overseas 
markets and are regulated by the relevant regulators in 
compliance with local regulation.
Relationship with shareholders
The Company values dialogue with its shareholders. Any 
meetings with shareholders are reported on at Board meetings 
and the non-executive directors may attend such meetings if they 
wish to do so. The Company has an “Investor” section on its 
website.
The principal communication with shareholders is through the 
annual report, the half year report and the AGM. The Company 
also meets with major shareholders when required. The 
Company has taken advantage of the provisions within the 
Companies Act 2006 which allows communication with 
shareholders to be made electronically where shareholders have 
not requested hard copy documentation. The AGM is held in a 
central London location and the Notice and any related papers 
are issued to shareholders at least 20 working days before the 
date of the AGM to ensure that shareholders have sufﬁcient time 
in which to consider the items of business. The AGM provides the 
Board with an opportunity to meet informally and communicate 
directly with private investors. Separate resolutions are proposed 
for each item of business and the “for”, “against” and “withheld” 
proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution are counted and 
announced after the shareholders present have voted on each 
resolution. Voting at the AGM is conducted by way of a show of 
hands, unless a poll is demanded, in order to encourage 
questions from and interaction with private investors. Proxy votes 
lodged on each AGM resolution are also announced to the 
London Stock Exchange and published on the Company’s 
website. All the directors attended the AGM in 2012 and all 
directors are due to attend the AGM to be held on 2 May 2013. Charles Taylor plc
28
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Remuneration Committee Report
The Remuneration Committee takes responsibility for 
setting and reviewing the remuneration of executive 
directors. At Charles Taylor we believe that the interests 
of shareholders and executive directors should be aligned 
as much as possible. The Committee seeks to achieve this 
by incentivising executive directors to deliver success 
over time through sustainable and proﬁtable growth.
INTRODUCTION
Set out below is the report of the Remuneration Committee (the 
Committee) for the year to 31 December 2012.
The Committee has continued to apply restraint to executive 
directors’ remuneration. There have been no base salary 
increases at the 1 January 2013 review date. This is the third year 
in which salaries have been frozen. 
Annual bonus awards have been made in respect of the 2012 
performance year to all executive directors. The Group Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer, David Marock received a cash bonus payment 
for 2012 performance of £275,000 (86% of base salary; 57% of 
maximum bonus). Three other executive directors received 
bonuses in respect of performance in 2012 of not more than 26% 
of base salary.   
The 2009 Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP) awards that were due 
to vest in May 2012 did not meet the performance conditions, 
and therefore lapsed in full. The Committee made LTIP grants in 
2012 with face values of between 19% and 64% of base salary, 
which is below the maximum permitted under the Plan; these are 
due to vest in 2015 provided the performance conditions are met.
The Committee has made two signiﬁcant changes to 
remuneration policy for 2013 on which major shareholders have 
been consulted:
 Two performance metrics will apply to the 2013 LTIP grants, to 
provide a more rounded view of performance. These are: TSR 
relative to the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap index, which 
was used in previous years as a single metric; and EPS growth 
relative to retail price inﬂation; and
 New shareholding requirements have been introduced. 
Executive directors are now expected to build up a holding of 
Charles Taylor shares of at least 1x base salary. Until they have 
met this holding level, they are required to invest a portion of 
annual bonus in shares, and any LTIP shares or deferred 
bonus shares that vest must be retained in full (net of tax).
We were pleased to announce in January 2013 the appointment 
of Tito Soso as Group Chief Financial Ofﬁcer. We have included 
details of Tito’s remuneration in this report. 
The Committee aims to ensure that remuneration policy for 
executives is: clear and simple; emphasises pay-for-performance 
over time; and, is closely aligned to the business strategy and the 
interests of shareholders.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 (the Act) and Schedule 
8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (the Regulations), and 
the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority. The report describes 
how the Board has applied the principles and complied with the 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to 
Directors’ remuneration. As required by the Companies Act, a 
resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual 
General Meeting of the Company at which the ﬁnancial 
statements will be approved. 
This report has been divided into separate sections for unaudited 
and audited information. The Companies Act requires the 
auditors to report to the Company’s members on the “auditable 
part” of this report and to state whether in their opinion that part 
of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
Remuneration Committee
The Company’s Remuneration Committee is constituted in 
accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. The members of the Committee during the 
year were Julian Avery (Chairman), Julian Cazalet, Gill Rider and 
David Watson, all independent non-executive directors, and 
Rupert Robson who is the Non-Executive Group Chairman. None 
of the Committee members has any personal ﬁnancial interest 
(other than as shareholders), conﬂicts of interest arising from 
cross-Directorships, or day-to-day involvement in the running of 
the business. 
The Committee is responsible for developing policy on 
remuneration for executive directors and senior management, for 
determining speciﬁc remuneration packages for each of the 
executive directors, and recommending to the Board changes to 
the fees of the Non-Executive Group Chairman. The Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer may attend meetings by invitation. The 
Committee met seven times during 2012. No director plays a part 
in any discussion or decision about his or her own remuneration.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available at the 
Company’s website.
New Bridge Street (a trading name of Aon Hewitt Ltd) is retained 
as the independent adviser to the Remuneration Committee. 
Committee effectiveness
The Committee conducted a review of its effectiveness taking 
both direct feedback and also the ﬁndings of the Board review 
conducted by the Senior Independent Director. The review 
concluded that the Committee had received sufﬁcient, reliable 
and timely information from management to enable it to fulﬁl its 
responsibilities. Charles Taylor plc
29
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Remuneration policy
Executive remuneration packages are designed to attract, motivate and retain directors and senior management of high calibre. The 
Committee reviews the packages offered annually. The Committee believes that the interests of shareholders and executive directors 
should be aligned as far as possible. It seeks to achieve this by incentivising executive directors to deliver success over time through 
sustainable and proﬁtable growth. This includes the use of annual bonus awards linked to clear personal and departmental objectives 
and to the overall performance of the Company, and awards under the LTIP linked to longer-term, sustained company performance. 
The Committee aims to structure incentives to encourage the prudent management of levels of risk. 
The Remuneration Committee is mindful of the Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) implications when designing and 
operating remuneration practices. The incentive structures aim to avoid any ESG risks and encourage responsible behaviour. The 
Committee also considers the pay and employment conditions of other employees in the Company and its subsidiaries, below the 
executive director level, when determining directors’ remuneration. This includes considering the base salary review and bonus 
outcomes (if applicable) for other senior employees, when reviewing base salaries and determining any bonus awards for executive 
directors.
Application of policy
The main elements of the remuneration package for executive directors are as follows:
 base salary and beneﬁts;
 annual bonus awards;
 longer-term incentive arrangements; and
 pension arrangements.
Base salary
Executive directors’ base salaries are determined by the Committee each year and/or when an individual changes position or 
responsibility. In deciding appropriate levels, the Committee is mindful of pay and employment conditions in the Company as a whole, 
the individual’s experience and performance and current market rates.
Executive directors’ base salaries are reviewed at the start of each ﬁnancial year. The annual salaries of executive directors were not 
increased at 1 January 2013. This is the third year in which there have been no increases.
Base salaries
1 January 2013 1 January 2012
David Marock GCEO £320,000 £320,000
Damian Ely GCOO £214,000 £214,000
George Fitzsimons GFD (resigned 31 October 2012) Not applicable £210,000
Alistair Groom Executive director £313,650 £313,650
Joe Roach Executive director US$606,419 US$606,419
Tito Soso GCFO (appointed 16 January 2013) £235,000 Not applicable
In addition to their base salary and pension entitlements and beneﬁts in cash, executive directors receive certain beneﬁts-in-kind, in 
some cases a car or car allowance and private medical insurance. 
Annual bonus awards
The Group Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, David Marock was awarded a cash bonus payment for 2012 performance of £275,000 (86% of 
base salary; 57% of maximum bonus). This bonus reﬂected signiﬁcant achievements by David Marock in his ﬁrst full year of ofﬁce, 
when measured against his agreed set of objectives. In particular, considerable progress has been made in deﬁning and implementing 
Group strategy, the reduction of Group debt, outstanding WIP and trade debtors, the launching of new ofﬁces, products and services, 
the delivery of a cost reduction and efﬁciency programme, the improved management of banking and investor relationships, the 
strengthening of major client relationships, and greatly improved succession planning, talent management and HR processes. Three 
other executive directors were awarded bonuses in respect of performance in 2012 of not more than 26% of base salary. These 
bonuses will be partly paid in cash and partly paid in deferred shares. These bonuses reﬂect the strong performances of each Director 
against his objectives, his contribution to the success and development of the Company in the year, and the Company’s overall 
performance.
Under the annual bonus arrangement for 2013, the Remuneration Committee has approved a set of individual performance objectives 
for each executive director as part of the company’s performance management process. These objectives are tailored to the roles of 
each executive and consist of both ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial goals, including proﬁt growth and new business development. In 
addition, all executive directors have shared responsibility for the overall performance of the Company. In assessing the entitlement to 
any bonus and calculating the quantum of any such award, the Committee takes into account the performance of each executive 
director against his objectives, his contribution to the success and development of the Company in the year and the Company’s overall 
performance. Charles Taylor plc
30
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Remuneration Committee Report
continued
The maximum annual bonus for the Group Chief Executive Ofﬁcer for 2013 performance is 150% of base salary, subject to the 
performance assessment as outlined above. However, if the bonus award is more than 100% of base salary, which can only be 
awarded for above on target performance, the portion above 100% of base salary will be delivered entirely in deferred Charles Taylor 
plc shares, which will be released in three equal tranches after one, two and three years.
The maximum annual bonus for the other executive directors for 2013 performance varies but does not exceed 100% of base salary, 
and is subject to the performance assessment as outlined above. However, if any of the executive directors earns a bonus of more than 
67% of their maximum bonus, the portion above 67% of the maximum will be delivered entirely in deferred Charles Taylor plc shares. 
These will be released in three equal tranches after one, two and three years.
Performance-related annual bonus awards are discretionary and are non-pensionable.
Minimum Shareholding Requirement
The Remuneration Committee has introduced a Minimum Shareholding Requirement (MSR) for the executive directors. Each executive 
director is required to build up and maintain a holding of Charles Taylor plc shares equivalent to 1x base salary. Until they have achieved 
this shareholding, they are required to retain 100% of any LTIP shares that vest, net of tax, and invest 25% of the value of any cash 
bonus in shares, net of tax.
Long-term incentive arrangements
Charles Taylor Long-Term Incentive Plan 2007 (“LTIP”)
The Committee awards performance shares under the LTIP to tie a proportion of remuneration to the Company’s longer-term 
performance to further align the executive directors’ interests with those of shareholders. 
Awards totalling 280,000 shares were made on 27 April 2012, equating to an award with a face value of between 19% and 64% of base 
salary for each of the executive directors at a share price of £1.3633 (2011: £1.54). Details of these awards are set out in the table 
below. The maximum award level permitted under the LTIP is 75% of base salary per annum. 
2012 Awards 2011 Awards
(number of 
shares)
(number of 
shares)
David Marock – GCEO 150,000 300,000
Damian Ely – GCOO 30,000 50,000
George Fitzsimons – GFD (resigned 31 October 2012) – 50,000
Alistair Groom – Executive director 50,000 50,000
Joe Roach – Executive director 50,000 50,000
Total 280,000 500,000
These awards are subject to a three-year performance period and are due to vest on 27 April 2015 (2011 awards vest 27 April 2014) 
subject to the Company’s relative Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance. 
The proportion of shares which may be transferred under the LTIP will be determined by the Company’s Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR) relative to the constituent companies of the FTSE Small Cap Index (“the comparator Group”) in accordance with the following 
table:
Ranking of the Company against the comparator Group by reference to TSR Percentage of shares which may vest
Below median Nil
Median 25%
Between median and upper quartile Pro rata on a straight-line basis between 25% and 100%
Upper quartile 100%
Prior to the 2013 awards, LTIP awards have been subject only to relative TSR performance. From 2013 onwards LTIP grants will be 
subject to two performance metrics to give a more rounded view of Company performance:
Half of the award will be subject to Total Shareholder Return relative to the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap index, as shown in the 
table above.
The other half of the award will be subject to Earnings Per Share (EPS) growth relative to UK RPI (Retail Price Index) inﬂation. There will 
be zero vesting of this element if performance is below RPI+3 percentage points per annum, 25% vesting for RPI+3 percentage points 
per annum, and 100% vesting for RPI+9 percentage points per annum (linear interpolation between threshold and maximum). 
The maximum annual award size (in face value) under the LTIP remains at 75% of base salary, unless there are exceptional 
circumstances. Charles Taylor plc
31
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
The Committee also has the discretion to make a downward adjustment (including to zero if appropriate) to the vesting outcome under 
either performance metric, if it considers that this is necessary to take account of its broader assessment of the performance of the 
Company.
Executive share options (ESOS)
No options were granted during the 2012 ﬁnancial year, and none has been granted since 2006. Previous grants of options became 
exercisable only if the total earnings per ordinary share increased by at least the rate of increase Retail Price Index plus six percentage 
points per annum, over the three-year vesting period and, may be exercised up to ten years after the date of the award.
Save As You Earn (“SAYE”)
The Company also operates SAYE share option schemes for eligible employees under which options may be granted at a discount of 
up to 20% of market value. The value of options over shares that participants can be granted is capped, and is based on a monthly 
contribution to a savings account of a maximum of £250 per participant. The executive directors are eligible to participate in the SAYE 
share option scheme.
Details of the share plan awards granted and exercised are shown on page 36.
Appointment of Tito Soso as Group Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 
Tito Soso was recruited externally and appointed Group Chief Financial Ofﬁcer with effect from 16 January 2013. The remuneration 
package for Tito Soso is as follows:
Base salary £235,000
Pension contribution: 15%
Notice period from Company: 6 months
Maximum annual bonus: 100% of base salary
One–off Recruitment Award
1
73% of base salary (100,000 shares at £1.725) (16 Jan 2013)
Initial LTIP grant
2
110% of base salary (150,000 shares at £1.725) (16 Jan 2013)
1  The Remuneration Committee approved a special, one-off award under Listing Rule 9.4.2R(2) of the FSA Handbook to secure Tito’s recruitment (the “Recruitment Award”) 
into this key role in the Company. Further details are provided below.
2 The Committee also agreed that Tito’s initial grant under the Charles Taylor LTIP should be 150,000 shares (110% of base salary at a share price of £1.725). The Plan Rules 
permit an award above the normal 75% of base salary limit in exceptional circumstances – these circumstances are detailed below in the section entitled Recruitment 
Award. The LTIP award is subject to the LTIP Rules and performance condition, and vests three years from the date of grant. This grant was made on 16 January 2013, 
and is in lieu of any grant of LTIP Tito would have been eligible for in the normal 2013 grant round.
Recruitment Award to Tito Soso
Tito Soso’s earnings from his previous employment, and future potential earnings from alternative career opportunities available to him, 
were substantially higher than the standard remuneration package Charles Taylor plc was able to offer. To secure his appointment into 
this key role, it was necessary to grant Tito a Recruitment Award of 100,000 shares. The award made on 16 January 2013 has a value 
on the date of grant of £172,500 representing 73% of his base salary. The Recruitment Award was granted on similar terms to the 
Charles Taylor Long-Term Incentive Plan 2007 (the “LTIP”), save that the LTIP performance condition does not apply to the Recruitment 
Award.
Other key features of the Recruitment Award are summarised below:
 It is non-pensionable. 
 It is due to vest on the third anniversary of the award date (16 January 2013), providing that Tito Soso remains in service at the 
vesting date and is not under notice of termination of employment (whether given or received) at the vesting date. 
 If Tito Soso leaves the Company as a good leaver or there is a “Corporate Action” (as deﬁned in the LTIP rules) before the date when 
the Recruitment Award would normally have vested, then the Recruitment Award will be subject to a pro rata adjustment based on 
the number of whole months which have elapsed from the award date to the date Tito Soso ceased employment with the Company 
as compared to 36 months.
 To the extent that the Recruitment Award vests, it will be satisﬁed with existing shares, excluding treasury shares. 
 The number of shares subject to the Recruitment Award may be adjusted in the event of any variation of share capital or a special 
dividend or similar event. 
 The Recruitment Award cannot be amended to the advantage of Tito Soso in relation to: (i) who can acquire shares under the 
Recruitment Award; (ii) the basis for determining his entitlement to, and the terms of, the shares and/or cash to be provided under 
the Recruitment Award; and (iii) any adjustment that may be made in respect of any variation of share capital or special dividend or 
similar event without prior shareholder approval in general meeting. However, this requirement does not apply to any minor 
alterations to beneﬁt the administration of the Recruitment Award, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain 
favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment.  Charles Taylor plc
32
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Remuneration Committee Report
continued
The terms of the Recruitment Award will be available for inspection at the registered ofﬁce of the Company from the date that the 
Notice of AGM is sent until the close of the AGM, and at the place of the AGM for at least 15 minutes before and during the meeting.
George Fitzsimons
George Fitzsimons ceased to be a director of Charles Taylor plc and his employment ended on 31 October 2012, when he stepped 
down from his role as Group Finance Director. He will receive £138,250 as compensation for loss of ofﬁce, recognising his contractual 
entitlement to six months’ notice from the Company. This amount is payable in instalments during the period of six months from the 
date his employment terminated. His share awards under the executive share plans lapsed without compensation on the date 
employment ended, and he has not received an annual bonus payment in respect of 2012 performance.
Dilution
The ABI guidelines permit the Company to issue options and awards of shares of up to 10% of the issued share capital on a ten-year 
rolling basis, of which 5% can be applied against discretionary schemes (LTIP and ESOS). As at 31 December 2012, there were 
1,557,530 shares available for such awards, of which 695,026 shares were available for discretionary schemes. The following table sets 
out the calculation:
All shares
Discretionary
(LTIP and ESOS)
Issued shares 40,347,605 40,347,605
ABI limits 4,034,761 2,017,380
Issued (exercised and outstanding) 2,477,231 1,322,354
Available 1,557,530 695,026
Performance graph
The following graph shows the Company’s performance, measured by reference to total shareholder return, compared with the 
performance of the FTSE Small Cap Index, also measured by reference to total shareholder return.
The FTSE Small Cap Index has been selected for this comparison as it is the current index used to determine performance under the 
LTIP scheme for executive directors and is considered to be the most appropriate index measure.
Pension and other arrangements
All of the executive directors are in receipt of either a deﬁned contribution to a money purchase pension scheme, or an equivalent cash 
allowance. The table below details the deﬁned contribution and cash allowance arrangements for each executive director.
Name Type of arrangement Employer contribution Employee contribution
David Marock Deﬁned contribution to GPP
1
15% of base salary None
Damian Ely
3
Deﬁned contribution to GPP
1
 to 5 April 2012 15% of base salary 5% of base salary
Damian Ely Cash allowance – from 6 April 2012 15% of base salary less Employer NIC None
George Fitzsimons
4
(resigned 31 October 2012)
Deﬁned contribution to PP
2
15% of base salary 5% of base salary
Tito Soso
(appointed 16 January 2013)
Deﬁned contribution to GPP
1
15% of base salary None
Alistair Groom Cash allowance 15% of base salary None
Joe Roach Deﬁned contribution to US 401(k) plan US$8,250 pa $20,500 pa
1  GPP is Aviva Group Personal Pension.
2  PP is Axa Personal Pension.
3  Damian Ely up to 5 April 2012 was required to contribute 5% of base salary to the GPP, to be eligible for the company contribution.
4  George Fitzsimons (resigned 31 October 2012) was required to contribute 5% of base salary to the PP to be eligible for the company contribution. 
Charles Taylor plc
FTSE Small Cap Index
Source: Bloomberg
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
December 12 December 11 December 10 December 09 December 08 December 07
Value (£) Charles Taylor plc
33
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Directors’ contracts
All the executive directors have entered into service agreements with the Company, requiring notice of termination to be given by 
either party, as detailed in the table below.
Executive director Notice period Contract commencement date Compensation
David Marock GCEO 12 months 1 July 2011 Base salary/beneﬁts
Damian Ely GCOO 12 months 1 October 2005 Base salary
George Fitzsimons GFD (resigned 31 October 2012) 6 months 4 November 2004 Base salary
Tito Soso GCFO (appointed 16 January 2013) 6 months 16 January 2013 Base salary/beneﬁts
Alistair Groom Executive director 12 months 4 July 2005 Base salary/beneﬁts
Joe Roach Executive director 12 months 1 January 1997 Base salary
Directors’ contracts of service, which include details of their remuneration, are available for inspection at the registered ofﬁce of the 
Company during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
External appointments
Executive directors may be required to serve as directors on a number of external organisations directly related to the Group’s business 
activities, as detailed on page 23; they receive no fees or additional remuneration for these appointments. To further develop their skills 
and experience, executive directors are permitted, subject to approval of the Board, to have up to one external non-executive 
directorship, unrelated to Charles Taylor, and are allowed to retain the fees earned in relation to this.
Non-executive directors
The non-executive directors have individual letters of engagement and their remuneration is determined by the Board in accordance 
with the Articles of Association and based on surveys of the fees paid to non-executive directors of similar companies. With the 
exception of the Board Chairman who received a total fee of £75,000 per annum, the basic fee paid to each non-executive director in 
the year was £35,000 per annum. An additional £10,000 was paid to the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and 
£5,000 to the Senior Independent Director. The fees paid to the non-executive directors are reviewed, and any changes made, with 
effect from 1 January each year. The fees paid to the non-executive directors apart from the Board Chairman were not increased at 1 
January 2013. This is the third year in which there have been no increases. The Board Chairman’s fee was increased to £90,000 from 1 
January 2013; this remains below the market median level for companies in the FTSE Small Cap index.
Non-executive directors cannot participate in any of the Company’s annual bonus or share plans and are not eligible to join the 
Company’s pension scheme.
AUDITED INFORMATION
Compensation of key management personnel
The remuneration of directors and other members of key management during the year was as follows:
Year to 31 December
2012
£000
2011
£000
Emoluments 3,218 3,022
Pension contributions 180 219
3,398 3,241
The cost to the Group of share-based payments is disclosed in note 24. Charles Taylor plc
34
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Remuneration Committee Report
continued
Aggregate directors’ remuneration
The total amounts for directors’ remuneration were as follows:
Year to 31 December
2012
£000
2011
£000
Emoluments 2,407 2,131
Pension contributions 87 136
2,494 2,267
Directors’ emoluments are shown for the current directors serving during the year.
Fees/basic 
salary
Compensation 
for loss of 
ofﬁce 
Beneﬁts 
including 
pension 
contributions
Bonuses based on 
performance in the year to 
31 December 2012
2012
Total
2011
Total
Bonuses based on 
performance in the year to 
31 December 2011
Executive directors £000 £000 £000
Shares
£000
Cash
£000 £000 £000
Shares
£000
Cash
£000
David Marock GCEO 320 – 55 – 275 650 347 – 160
Damian Ely GCOO 214 – 49 18 20 301 297 20 10
George Fitzsimons 
(resigned 31 
October 2012)
GFD 175 138 43 – – 356 259––
Alistair Groom 314 – 67 24 56 461 436 30 20
Joe Roach 381 – 25 34 46 486 453 30 20
Non-executive directors
Rupert Robson Chairman 75–––– 75 75 – –
Julian Avery 45–––– 45 45 – –
Julian Cazalet 40–––– 40 40 – –
Gill Rider 35–––– 35 –––
David Watson 45 –––– 45 45 – –
1,644 138 239 76 397 2,494 1,997 80 210
Shares will be released in three equal tranches after one, two and three years.
The pension entitlements of the directors were as follows:
Money purchase schemes
2012
£000
2011
£000
David Marock 48 24
Damian Ely 8 17
George Fitzsimons 26 29
Joe Roach 5 5
87 75
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
Accrued 
pension
31 
December 
2011
£000
Increase 
in pension 
accrued in 
the year
£000 
Accrued 
pension
31 
December 
2012
£000
Alistair Groom 120 – 120
Damian Ely 64 – 64 Charles Taylor plc
35
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
The following table sets out the transfer value of the directors’ accrued beneﬁts under the scheme calculated in a manner consistent 
with “Retirement Beneﬁt Schemes – Transfer Values (GN11)” published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries.
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
Transfer 
value 
31 
December
2011
£000
Contributions 
made by the 
director in 
2012
£000
Increase in 
full transfer 
value in the 
year net of 
contributions
£000
Transfer 
value
31 
December
2012
£000
Cutback 
transfer 
value
1
31 
December
2012
£000
Alistair Groom 3,549 – 566 4,115 2,921
Damian Ely 1,550 – 142 1,692 1,201
1  The cutback transfer value relates to the reduced transfer value that would be available due to the funding situation of the scheme.
The increases in transfer values in 2012 were principally due to the impact of lower bond yields.
Directors’ interests
The beneﬁcial interests of directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 were as 
follows:
At 31 December 2012
or on leaving
1p ordinary shares
At 31 December 2011
or on leaving
1p ordinary shares
David Marock 70,000 0.17% 55,000 0.14%
Alistair Groom 334,500 0.83% 334,550 0.83%
Damian Ely 10,551 0.03% 10,656 0.03%
George Fitzsimons (resigned 31 October 2012) 2,500 0.01% 2,500 0.01%
Joe Roach 26,074 0.06% 24,479 0.06%
Rupert Robson 69,437 0.17% 69,437 0.17%
Julian Avery 10,000 0.02% 10,000 0.02%
Julian Cazalet 40,000 0.10% 40,000 0.10%
Gill Rider (appointed 25 January 2012) –– ––
David Watson 10,000 0.02% 10,000 0.02%
Total of directors’ beneﬁcial interests 573,062 1.42% 556,622 1.38%
Each director is taken to have a non-beneﬁcial interest in the ordinary shares held by the Charles Taylor Employee Share Ownership 
Plan, which totalled 601,238 shares at 31 December 2012. David Marock has a beneﬁcial interest in 362,318 of these shares which are 
held in trust in respect of his Recruitment Award. Charles Taylor plc
36
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Remuneration Committee Report
continued
The following movements in awards and options over the ordinary share capital of the Company took place during the year:
Director
Awards 
and options 
held at 
31 
December
2011
Awards 
and options 
granted 
during 
2012
Options 
exercised 
during
2012
Options 
lapsed 
during
2012
Awards 
and options 
cancelled 
during 
2012
Awards 
and 
options 
held at 31 
December 
2012
Exercise 
price (p) Exercisable dates
David Marock a 8,146–––– 8,146 110.48 Dec 2014–May 2015
David Marock d 300,000–––– 300,000 Nil 18 Oct 2014
David Marock e 362,318–––– 362,318 Nil 18 Oct 2014
David Marock c – 150,000––– 150,000 Nil 27 Apr 2015
Alistair Groom a 8,146–––– 8,146 110.48 Dec 2014–May 2015
Alistair Groom c 83,295 – – (83,295) – – Nil 13 May 2012
Alistair Groom c 70,000–––– 70,000 Nil 29 April 2013
Alistair Groom c 50,000–––– 50,000 Nil 27 Apr 2014
Alistair Groom c – 50,000––– 50,000 Nil 27 Apr 2015
Damian Ely f 14,000–––– 14,000 277.50 Apr 2007–Apr 2014
Damian Ely a 8,146–––– 8,146 110.48 Dec 2014–May 2015
Damian Ely c 51,366 – – (51,366) – – Nil 13 May 2012
Damian Ely c 70,000–––– 70,000 Nil 29 Apr 2013
Damian Ely c 50,000–––– 50,000 Nil 27 Apr 2014
Damian Ely c – 30,000––– 30,000 Nil 27 Apr 2015
George Fitzsimons c 49,977 – – (49,977) – – Nil 13 May 2012
George Fitzsimons c 70,000 – – (70,000) – – Nil 29 Apr 2013
George Fitzsimons c 50,000 – – (50,000) – – Nil 27 Apr 2014
Joe Roach b 4,452–––– 4,452 144.95 Dec 2012–Jan 2013
Joe Roach c 90,472 – – (90,472) – – Nil 13 May 2012
Joe Roach c 70,000–––– 70,000 Nil 29 Apr 2013
Joe Roach c 50,000–––– 50,000 Nil 27 Apr 2014
Joe Roach c – 50,000––– 50,000 Nil 27 Apr 2015
1,460,318 280,000 – (395,110) – 1,345,208
(a) Charles Taylor Sharesave Scheme 2007 – Part A.
(b) Charles Taylor Sharesave Scheme 2007 – Part C.
(c) Charles Taylor Long-Term Incentive Plan 2007 – subject to a three year relative TSR performance condition.
(d) Recruitment Award part (a).
(e) Recruitment Award part (b).
(f) Charles Taylor Executive Share Option Scheme 2007 – Part B, subject to a three year EPS growth performance condition.
There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for share options during the ﬁnancial year.
Since the year end four directors have been awarded bonuses in respect of performance in 2012, as detailed on page 34. There have 
been no other changes in the interests of directors in either share capital of the Company or options over the Company’s shares, apart 
from Joe Roach exercising his option over 4,452 shares in the Sharesave Scheme on 7 January 2013 and the Recruitment Award 
made to Tito Soso as detailed on page 31.
The Company’s shares were trading at £1.69 at the year end (2011: £1.27) and traded in the range £1.23 to £1.90 throughout the year.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 19 March 2013 and signed on its behalf by:
Julian Avery
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
19 March 2013 Charles Taylor plc
37
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Audit Committee Report
The Audit Committee takes responsibility for monitoring 
the integrity of the Group’s ﬁnancial reporting and 
statements. It also plays an important role in monitoring 
and managing the internal and external risks faced by the 
Company, by reviewing and challenging the activities of 
the Group’s risk management and internal audit teams.
Audit Committee membership
David Watson (Chairman)
Julian Avery
Julian Cazalet 
Gill Rider
Role and focus
The aims of the Committee are:
 to monitor the integrity of the annual and half-year results and 
interim management statements, including a review of the 
signiﬁcant ﬁnancial reporting judgements they contain;
 to review and monitor the effectiveness of the Group’s 
ﬁnancial, risk, regulatory and other controls;
 to review the Company’s arrangements for prevention and 
detection of fraud, to prevent bribery and to enable effective 
treatment of whistle blowing;
 to monitor the resourcing, plans, ﬁndings, recommendations 
and effectiveness of the Internal Audit and Compliance and 
Risk departments; and
 to oversee the appointment, plans, scope and relationship 
with the external auditors including monitoring their 
independence and to consider their report and ﬁndings.
Other attendees
The Group Company Secretary and General Counsel attends all 
meetings and, when requested, the Chairman, Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, Chief Operating Ofﬁcer, Head of 
Internal Audit, external auditors, Group Compliance and Risk 
Ofﬁcer attend certain parts of the Committee’s meetings.
Terms of reference
The terms of reference of the Committee are available under the 
Investor section – Corporate Governance at www.ctplc.com or 
from the Company Secretariat.
The Committee’s terms of reference were reviewed and amended 
by the Committee during 2012 to take account of Guidance on 
Audit Committees issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 
September 2012.
Governance
The Committee members are all independent non-executive 
directors. The Committee Chairman and Julian Cazalet are 
considered by the Board to have recent and relevant ﬁnancial 
experience, details of which are set out in the Corporate 
Governance Section of the Directors’ Report. The Committee 
meets routinely four times a year and additionally when 
necessary to review the accuracy of interim management 
statements. Within these meetings the Committee also meet the 
Company’s external auditors and the internal audit and risk 
executives without the executive directors present.
Membership and details of the number of meetings held and 
attendance at meetings during the year are shown in the 
Corporate Governance section of the Directors’ Report.
Activities
The Committee discharged its responsibilities as listed above 
and, in particular, considered the following matters:
Financial reporting
 reviewed the preliminary full year and interim results, including 
accounting issues and judgements supported by internal 
management and external auditor commentaries thereon;
 reviewed the draft quarterly trading updates and supporting 
ﬁnancial results and forecasts;
 reviewed draft ﬁnancial statements and annual report 2012 
and a report from the external auditor on those statements;
 reviewed whether the carrying value of assets in the 
Company’s balance sheet was realistic and reviewed 
accounting policies for the identiﬁcation and application of 
income;
 reviewed liquidity risk and presentation of the ﬁnancial 
statements on a going concern basis; 
 considered draft letters of representation;
 considered material litigation conducted by the Company and 
its subsidiaries; and
 reviewed and approved the board statement on internal 
control practices, principal risks and uncertainties and the 
Audit Committee Report within the 2012 annual report.
Risk management and internal control
 reviewed group compliance and risk resources;
 undertook detailed review and challenge of group risk report 
and the related annual report disclosures;
 oversaw the Group Compliance and Risk Committee;
 reviewed arrangements for training of staff and development 
of procedures in relation to ﬁnancial crime;
 reviewed the Group’s controls and reporting processes to 
manage bribery, fraud and sanctions;
 considered regular reports on incidents occurring in the 
businesses and control recommendations; and
 considered a draft tax policy.
Compliance
 considered the resourcing and structure of the compliance 
function across the Group;
 reviewed regular reports from the Group’s compliance and risk 
function on the work it had undertaken; and
 held closed discussions with the Head of Compliance without 
group executives present.
Internal audit
 considered the stafﬁng and structure of the internal audit 
function;
 received and debated the internal effectiveness review;
 reviewed the draft annual internal audit plan and approved any 
proposed amendments thereto;
 reviewed regular reports from the Group’s internal audit 
function on the work they had undertaken in reviewing the 
control environment and internal control systems; and
 held closed discussions with the Head of Internal Audit 
without group executives present. Charles Taylor plc
38
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
External auditor
 reviewed the performance and effectiveness of the services 
provided by the external auditor, and considered opportunities 
for improvement to the year-end processes by both the 
ﬁnance and external audit personnel;
 considered the capability and independence of the external 
auditor and the recommended re-appointment of Deloitte LLP 
as the Group’s auditor; 
 reviewed the draft terms of engagement for both the interim 
and full year reviews/audits;
 considered and amended the Company’s policy on the 
permitted engagement of the Company’s auditor for non-audit 
services;
 reviewed the auditor’s assessment of key risks and issues and 
proposed approach and scope of the audit work to be 
undertaken for 2012;
 reviewed the external audit ﬁndings for the Group and for its 
material subsidiaries;
 reviewed the fees proposed by and paid to the auditor;
 reviewed the level of fees paid to the auditor for non-audit 
services carried out by the auditor in conformity with the 
Board’s policy; and
 met the external auditor during the year without executives 
present.
Non-audit services
The Committee reviews regularly the amount and nature of 
non-audit work performed by the auditor. The Committee 
accepts, in principle, that certain work of a non-audit nature is 
best undertaken by the external auditors. The Company’s policy 
on non-audit services provides clear guidance on the categories 
of non-audit work which may be undertaken by the external 
auditors as well as setting out categories of work that may not be 
undertaken by the auditors. The policy also sets out the 
circumstances when consent from the Committee is required 
where work falls into neither the pre-approved nor prohibited 
categories. 
Auditor re-appointment
The Company’s audit services have been provided by Deloitte 
LLP since the Company’s ﬂoatation in 1996 with regular audit 
partner rotations. The Committee considered undertaking an 
external tender for Group audit during 2012 and, in view of 
impending change of CFO at the Group, agreed to defer such a 
tender until a permanent CFO was appointed and well 
established. The lead audit partner last changed by rotation in 
2010. Resolutions will put to shareholders at the AGM over the 
re-appointment of Deloitte LLP and the setting of their fees.
Audit Committee Report
continued
Committee effectiveness
The Committee conducted a review of its effectiveness taking 
both direct feedback and also the ﬁndings of the Board review 
conducted by the Senior Independent Director. The review 
concluded that the Committee had received sufﬁcient, reliable 
and timely information from management to enable it to fulﬁl its 
responsibilities and highlighted some areas to improve the 
effectiveness of the Committee’s oversight of the control 
environment and associated assurance processes.
David Watson
Chairman of the Audit Committee
19 March 2013 Charles Taylor plc
39
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) initiatives are an 
important part of our business activities. The Group is 
committed to conducting its business affairs in a fair, 
proper and ethical manner and in compliance with all 
applicable laws, regulations and relevant professional 
standards. The Group has adopted a set of corporate 
values, which have been communicated to all employees. 
Built on strong values, we recognise the need for 
commitment to all our stakeholders, be it shareholders, 
local communities, investment partners, ﬁnancial 
institutions or staff.
Environmental policy
Damian Ely is the executive director responsible for the Group’s 
environmental policy. Despite the fact that the Group’s operations 
as a service provider do not affect the environment to the same 
extent as some other companies, the Group seeks to minimise 
the environmental impact of its business operations and aims to 
follow best practice in areas in which it does have an 
environmental impact. 
The Group is committed to reducing its carbon footprint and 
strives to minimise its energy consumption through its energy 
management policy and by encouraging staff to be aware of the 
environment and to use energy thoughtfully. Where possible the 
Group uses energy-efﬁcient business appliances and computers, 
thereby giving rise to energy savings and a reduction in 
emissions. The Group’s head ofﬁce operates from ofﬁces which 
incorporate a number of design and other initiatives to reduce 
that ofﬁce’s environmental impact and carbon footprint. 
Electronic document management systems have been 
implemented in some business units to reduce paper usage. 
Where practicable the Group seeks to source its supplies from 
local businesses so as to minimise distribution and transport-
related emissions. In order to reduce travel-related emissions the 
Group encourages the use of video-conferencing technology in 
its ofﬁces. As part of its environmental policy the Group operates 
various recycling programmes.
Employees
Our employees play a vital role in accomplishing the Group’s 
goals. David Marock is the executive director responsible for 
employees. At 31 December 2012, the Group had 929 employees 
compared to 894 at 31 December 2011.
The Group is committed to providing an environment in which 
individual talents can ﬂourish and for there to be fair and equal 
employment opportunities for all persons. The Group is an equal 
opportunities employer and bases all decisions on individual 
ability without regard to race, religion, beliefs, political opinions, 
creed, colour, ethnic origin, citizenship, nationality, marital/
parental status, identity expression, gender, sexual orientation, 
age or disability.
Appropriate training and career development are available at all 
levels and the Group is committed to helping employees to 
realise their potential by gaining relevant skills and experience. 
The Group seeks to ensure the health, safety and welfare of all its 
employees and to meet all its obligations under the relevant 
legislation. Employees are expected to co-operate with 
management to create a safe and healthy working environment 
for themselves and others and to take reasonable care for their 
own health, welfare and safety at work. The Group’s health and 
safety responsibilities are accorded equal priority with the 
Group’s other statutory duties and objectives.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for 
employment made by disabled persons and will make reasonable 
adjustments to remove substantial disadvantages faced by 
disabled persons, whether as employees, candidates for 
promotion or job applicants. If an employee were to become 
disabled whilst employed, the Group would endeavour to make 
arrangements, wherever possible, to continue their employment 
with the Group.
We recognise the importance of communication with our 
employees; we encourage two-way communications through the 
management hierarchy, where feasible. Employees are kept 
informed of developments in our business through internal 
communications, including the Company intranet, CT Connect. 
Employees are encouraged to become shareholders in the 
Company. This is primarily through the operation of the 
Company’s sharesave scheme, details of which are set out  
in the Remuneration Committee Report on page 31. Senior 
management also receive part of any annual bonus award as 
deferred shares.
Social and community involvement and charitable and 
political donations
The Group seeks to encourage employee involvement in 
community projects and programmes. The Group’s staff 
supported a number of charities through various fund raising 
activities during 2012.
During the year the Group made charitable contributions of 
£17,251 (2011: £13,925), principally to local charities serving the 
communities in which the Group operates.
It is the Group’s policy not to make political donations. No political 
contributions were made during the year (2011: £nil).
Corporate Social Responsibility Charles Taylor plc
40
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The Directors’ Report should be read in conjunction with the 
Business Review on pages 6 to 21 and the Corporate 
Governance Report on pages 24 to 27, both of which form part of 
this report.
Principal activities, business review and future 
developments
The Group’s main trading activities are explained in the Business 
Review which, as noted above, appears on pages 6 to 21. The 
Business Review includes a fair review of the business of the 
Group during the ﬁnancial year to 31 December 2012. 
The Group’s future developments are described in the strategic 
update set out on pages 8 and 9. 
Key performance indicators
The key performance indicators for the Group are set out on 
page 11.
Principal risks
The principal risks facing the Group and the processes by which 
they are managed are explained on pages 19 to 21, and other 
ﬁnancial risks and uncertainties are explained in note 25 to the 
Financial Statements.
Corporate governance
The auditor, Deloitte LLP, has reviewed the directors’ statement 
on the Group’s compliance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (“the Code”), in so far as it relates to the paragraphs of the 
Code which the Financial Services Authority has speciﬁed for 
their review. The Corporate Governance Report is on pages 
24 to 27.
Going concern 
The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on going 
concern. Whilst the continuing weak economic background has 
created general uncertainty, the Group has a number of long-
term client contracts and well-established trading relationships 
with many customers across a number of different geographical 
locations and business lines. The Group also has considerable 
ﬁnancial ﬂexibility and access to additional sources of ﬁnance. 
The Group’s banking facilities, which were renegotiated in 2009, 
have been extended until May 2014 and are detailed in note 25. 
Under current forecasts the Group has sufﬁcient headroom on 
working capital and banking covenants. The directors have 
identiﬁed and considered the anticipated main areas of business 
risk, set out on pages 19 and 20. As a consequence, the 
directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its 
business risks successfully despite the continuing uncertain 
economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at 
the time of approving the ﬁnancial statements, that there is a 
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For 
this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the ﬁnancial statements.
Dividends
An interim dividend for the year to 31 December 2012 of 3.25p 
(2011: 3.25p) per share was paid on 30 November 2012. The 
directors recommend a ﬁnal dividend of 6.75p (2011: 6.75p) per 
share. If approved by the shareholders at the AGM, the ﬁnal 
dividend will be paid on 24 May 2013 to those shareholders 
whose names are on the register on 12 April 2013. The Group 
operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan. This gives shareholders 
the opportunity to use their cash dividends to buy additional 
shares through a special dealing arrangement with the 
Company’s Registrars.
Capital structure
Details of the issued share capital, together with details of the 
movements in the Company’s issued share capital during the 
year are shown in note 22. The Company has one class of 
ordinary shares which carry no right to ﬁxed income. Each share 
carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
As at 31 December 2012 the issued share capital of the 
Company was 40,347,605 ordinary shares and the average 
monthly trading volume was 1,334,402 ordinary shares (2011: 
924,992 ordinary shares).
There are no speciﬁc restrictions on the size of a holding nor on 
the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general 
provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation. 
The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders 
of the Group’s shares that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Options over 185,983 ordinary shares under Part A of the Charles 
Taylor Sharesave Scheme were granted on 11 October 2012 to 
eligible employees of the Group. These options entitle the 
participants to acquire 185,983 ordinary shares between 1 
December 2015 and 31 May 2016 at a price of 141.08p per share. 
Options over 8,471 ordinary shares under Part B of the Charles 
Taylor Sharesave Scheme were granted on 15 October 2012 to 
eligible employees of the Group. These options entitle the 
participants to acquire 8,471 ordinary shares between 1 
December 2015 and 31 May 2016 at a price of 140.2p per share. 
Options over 38,063 ordinary shares under Part C of the Charles 
Taylor Sharesave Scheme were granted on 9 October 2012 to 
eligible employees of the Group. These options entitle the 
participants to acquire 38,063 ordinary shares on 9 January 2015 
at a price of 149.89p per share.
Awards over 280,000 and 150,000 ordinary shares under the 
Charles Taylor Consulting Long-Term Incentive Plan 2007 (“LTIP”) 
were granted on 27 April 2012 and 16 January 2013 to the 
executive directors. Full details of the awards are set out in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 30 and 31.
Directors’ Report 
for the year to 31 December 2012 Charles Taylor plc
41
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
As at 31 December 2012, the Charles Taylor Employees’ Share 
Ownership Plan (“ESOP”) held 601,238 shares. On 7 October 
2011, the ESOP Trustees entered into a share supply agreement 
with the Company, whereby awards made under the LTIP can be 
settled from shares held in the ESOP.
Full details of the Company’s employee share schemes are set 
out in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 30 and 31 
and note 24.
No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s 
share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Resolutions approved at the last Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) 
will be proposed again at this year’s AGM – see resolutions 16, 17 
and 18 in the Notice of the AGM. Those resolutions authorise the 
directors to purchase or issue shares in the capital of the 
Company within certain limits.
The Company’s shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange 
under the sector “Financial Services” and are indexed by the 
FTSE under the “Small Cap” and “All Share” indices. The 
Company’s share price appears in various UK national 
newspapers and appears on various ﬁnancial websites under the 
code “CTR”. The Company has a policy of actively engaging with 
its major shareholders. The outcomes of meetings with 
shareholders are advised to the whole Board along with any 
views, concerns or comments made by shareholders.
Major interests in Company’s shares
Notiﬁcations of the following voting interests in the Company’s 
ordinary share capital had been received by the Company (in 
accordance with Chapter 5 of the FSA’s Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules and Section 793 Companies Act 2006) as at 
31 December 2012:
Number of 
shares held
Percentage
of voting 
rights held
Delta Lloyd Asset Management 5,300,819 13.01
Legal & General Investment Management 4,493,227 11.13
Columbia Wanger Asset Management 3,557,520 8.81
Kabouter Management LLC 2,925,274 7.25
Philip Holden 1,356,739 3.36 
Andrew Brannon 1,356,738 3.36 
At 19 March 2013 the only change to the above ﬁgures is that 
Delta Lloyd Asset Management has increased its holding to 
6,225,689 ordinary shares representing 15.42% of voting rights.
Save for the above, the directors are unaware of any person, 
other than the directors whose interests are shown on pages 35 
and 36, having a disclosable interest in the issued ordinary share 
capital of the Company.
Directors
The following directors served during the year ended 31 
December 2012 and as at the date of this report:
Name Appointment
Rupert Robson Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee
Julian Avery Independent Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Julian Cazalet Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Damian Ely Executive Director
George 
Fitzsimons 
Executive Director (resigned 31 October 2012)
Alistair Groom Executive Director
David Marock Executive Director
Gill Rider Independent Non-Executive Director 
(appointed 25 January 2012)
Joseph Roach III Executive Director
David Watson Independent Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Tito Soso Executive Director (appointed 16 January 2013)
Brief biographies of the directors, indicating their experience and 
qualiﬁcations are given on pages 22 and 23. All the directors have 
elected to retire from the Board at the forthcoming AGM and offer 
themselves for re-election and in the case of Tito Soso is 
standing for election having been appointed since the last AGM.
Details of the directors’ notice periods are given on page 33.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the 
Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Code, the 
Companies Act and related legislation. The Articles of Association 
themselves may be amended by special resolution of the 
shareholders. The powers of directors are described in the 
Articles of Association, copies of which are available on request, 
and in the Corporate Governance report on pages 24 to 27.
A statement of directors’ interests in the shares of the Company 
and their remuneration is set out on pages 33 to 36.
Employees
Full details of arrangements relating to employees are described 
in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 39.
Environmental policy
Environmental policy is determined by the Board and Damian Ely 
is the executive director responsible for the Group’s 
environmental policy. Further details can be found in the 
Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 39.
Charitable and political donations
Full details of our charitable donations are disclosed in the 
Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 39. It is the 
Group’s policy not to make political donations.  Charles Taylor plc
42
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Creditor payment policy
Payments are made to suppliers by group companies in 
accordance with agreed terms and conditions, provided that the 
terms and conditions are met by suppliers. Charles Taylor plc is a 
holding company and had no trade creditors at 31 December 
2012 (2011: £nil) and consequently creditor days have not been 
presented.
Disclosure of information to auditors 
In the case of each of the persons who are directors of the 
Company at the date when this report was approved:
 so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant 
audit information (as deﬁned in Section 418 of the Companies 
Act 2006) of which the Group’s auditor is unaware; and
 each of the directors has taken all the steps that he/she ought 
to have taken as a director to make himself/herself aware of 
any relevant audit information and to establish that the Group’s 
auditor is aware of that information.
The Group’s auditor, Deloitte LLP, has conﬁrmed that they are 
willing to continue in ofﬁce. Accordingly, a resolution is to be 
proposed at the AGM for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as 
auditor of the Group at a rate of remuneration to be determined 
by the directors. 
This conﬁrmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 418(2) Companies Act 
2006.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 3.00pm on Thursday 
2 May 2013 at the ofﬁces of Peel Hunt, Moor House, 120 London 
Wall, London, EC2Y 5ET. The notice convening the AGM, 
together with explanatory notes, is contained in a separate 
circular sent to shareholders.
Share allotment and pre-emption rights
In accordance with the Company’s normal practice, a resolution 
will be proposed at the AGM to renew the directors’ authority to 
allot unissued ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal value of 
£134,570 (which is equivalent to approximately 33% of the 
Company’s issued share capital as at 19 March 2013) and to 
issue ordinary shares in connection with a pre-emptive offer, by 
way of a rights issue to shareholders up to a maximum nominal 
amount of £269,140 (which is equivalent to approximately 66% of 
the Company’s issued share capital as at 19 March 2013). The 
authority will expire on the earlier of 15 months from the date of 
this resolution and the end of the 2014 AGM of the Company.
A further resolution will be proposed at the AGM to renew the 
directors’ authority to issue ordinary shares for cash without ﬁrst 
being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders on a 
pro rata basis. The authority will expire on the earlier of 15 
months from the date of this resolution and the end of the 2014 
AGM of the Company. The authority will be limited to ordinary 
shares having an aggregate nominal value of £20,185 (which 
represents approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the 
Group as at 19 March 2013).
Events after the balance sheet date
There have been no signiﬁcant events since the balance sheet 
date which would have a material effect on the ﬁnancial 
statements.
Approved by the Directors and signed on behalf of the Board.
Ivan Keane
Group Company Secretary and General Counsel 
19 March 2013
Charles Taylor plc is registered in England No. 3194476.
Directors’ Report continued
for the year to 31 December 2012 Charles Taylor plc
43
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Charles Taylor plc
43
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and 
the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare ﬁnancial statements 
for each ﬁnancial year. Under that law the directors are required to 
prepare the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by 
the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have 
also chosen to prepare the parent company ﬁnancial statements 
under IFRSs as adopted by the EU. Under company law the 
directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisﬁed 
that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company and of the proﬁt or loss of the Company for that period. In 
preparing these ﬁnancial statements, International Accounting 
Standard 1 requires that directors:
 properly select and apply accounting policies;
 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; 
 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speciﬁc 
requirements in IFRSs are insufﬁcient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the entity’s ﬁnancial position and ﬁnancial 
performance; and
 make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufﬁcient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
ﬁnancial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that 
the ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement
We conﬁrm that to the best of our knowledge:
 the ﬁnancial statements, prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
 the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors’ 
Report, includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
David Marock
Group Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Damian Ely
Group Chief Operating Ofﬁcer
Tito Soso
Group Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Directors’ Responsibilities Statement Charles Taylor plc
44
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Charles Taylor plc
44
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Independent Auditor’s Report 
to the members of Charles Taylor plc
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements of Charles Taylor plc for 
the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the 
consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income, the consolidated and parent company 
balance sheets, the consolidated and parent company cash ﬂow 
statements, the consolidated and parent company statements of 
changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 34. The ﬁnancial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is 
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the 
parent company ﬁnancial statements, as applied in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state 
to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state 
to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the 
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, 
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the ﬁnancial 
statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the ﬁnancial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us 
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for 
Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give reasonable 
assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. In 
addition, we read all the ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information in 
the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited ﬁnancial statements. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion:
 the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the state of 
the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 
December 2012 and of the Group’s proﬁt for the year then 
ended;
 the Group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union;
 the parent company ﬁnancial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
 the ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the Group ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB
As explained in note 1 to the Group ﬁnancial statements, the Group 
in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued 
by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
In our opinion the Group ﬁnancial statements comply with IFRSs as 
issued by the IASB.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 
2006
In our opinion:
 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁnancial 
year for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
 the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law 
are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 the directors’ statement, contained within the Directors’ Report, 
in relation to going concern; 
 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code speciﬁed for our review; and
 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on 
directors’ remuneration.
Alexander Arterton BSc ACA (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
19 March 2013 Charles Taylor plc
45
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
Year to 31 December
Note
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
Continuing operations
Revenue from Professional Services 102,825 98,871
Revenue from Insurers in Run-off
 Gross revenue 7,392 5,898
 Outward reinsurance premiums (2,014) (2,310)
 Net revenue 27 5,378 3,588
Total revenue 3 108,203 102,459
Expenses from Insurers in Run-off
 Claims incurred (21,724) 5,137
 Reinsurance recoveries 3,133 1,000
 Other gains/(losses) from insurance activities 19,832 (4,465)
 Net operating expenses (5,654) (5,376)
 Net losses (4,413) (3,704)
Administrative expenses 4 (95,011) (90,379)
Share of results of associates 16 42 123
Operating proﬁt 8,821 8,499
Investment and other income/(expenses) 6 116 (174)
Finance costs 7 (1,861) (1,946)
Proﬁt before tax 7,076 6,379
Income tax expense 8 (1,702) (1,813)
Proﬁt for the period from continuing operations 5,374 4,566
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 6,537 5,123
Non-controlling interests 23 (1,163) (557)
5,374 4,566
Earnings per share from continuing operations
Statutory basic (p) 11 16.25 12.79
Statutory diluted (p) 11 16.17 12.74
Adjusted earnings per share ﬁgures are shown on page 90.
Consolidated Income Statement Charles Taylor plc
46
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Year to 31 December
Note
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (791) 69
Actuarial gains/(losses) on deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes 29 850 (12,518)
Gains/(losses) on cash ﬂow hedges 629 (213)
Tax on items taken directly to equity (1,428) 2,074
Net loss recognised directly in equity (740) (10,588)
Proﬁt for the year 5,374 4,566
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 4,634 (6,022)
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 5,861 (5,490)
Non-controlling interests 23 (1,227) (532)
4,634 (6,022) Charles Taylor plc
47
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
At 31 December
Note
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 13 41,732 41,818
Other intangible assets 14 8,824 9,715
Property, plant and equipment 15 5,336 5,695
Investments 16 656 647
Deferred tax assets 17 7,682 9,580
64,230 67,455
Current assets
Total assets in insurance businesses 27 349,327 343,455
Trade and other receivables 18 51,260 52,841
Cash and cash equivalents 47,758 43,476
448,345 439,772
Total assets 512,575 507,227
Current liabilities
Total liabilities in insurance businesses 27 312,876 290,713
Trade and other payables 19 19,049 17,640
Deferred consideration 12 5,288 2,000
Current tax liabilities 237 484
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 20 675 723
Borrowings 20 20,683 20,547
Client funds 20 35,213 32,098
394,021 364,205
Net current assets 54,324 75,567
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 20 20,082 23,323
Retirement beneﬁt obligation 29 31,594 34,782
Provisions 21 665 930
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 20 586 828
Deferred consideration 12 9,016 14,390
61,943 74,253
Total liabilities 455,964 438,458
Net assets 56,611 68,769
Equity
Share capital 22 403 403
Share premium account 30,635 30,635
Merger reserve 6,872 6,872
Capital reserve 662 662
Own shares (385) –
Retained earnings (3,684) (6,340)
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 34,503 32,232
Non-controlling interests 23 22,108 36,537
Total equity 56,611 68,769
The ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 19 March 2013.
Tito Soso
Director
19 March 2013
Consolidated Balance Sheet Charles Taylor plc
48
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
At 31 December
Note
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
Non-current assets
Investments 16 39,089 39,089
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 18 123,086 113,959
Cash and cash equivalents 555 1,155
123,641 115,114
Total assets 162,730 154,203
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 89,243 73,560
Borrowings 20 12,270 11,411
101,513 84,971
Net current assets 22,128 30,143
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 20 19,928 22,941
Total liabilities 121,441 107,912
Net assets 41,289 46,291
Equity
Called up share capital 22 403 403
Share premium account 30,635 30,635
Retained earnings 10,251 15,253
Total equity 41,289 46,291
The ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 19 March 2013.
Tito Soso
Director
19 March 2013
Company Balance Sheet Charles Taylor plc
49
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
Year to 31 December
Note
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
Group
Net cash from operating activities 28 20,228 5,469
Investing activities
Interest received 52 62
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 135 82
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (1,303) (1,275)
Acquisition of other intangible assets (1,622) (1,059)
Purchase of investments (555) (385)
Proceeds from sale of investments – 526
Acquisition of subsidiaries (1,550) (2,351)
Payment of deferred consideration (2,000) –
Net cash acquired with subsidiary – 260
Net cash used in investing activities (6,843) (4,140)
Financing activities
Dividends paid 10 (4,030) (3,096)
Repayments of borrowings (13,938) (9,995)
Repayments of obligations under ﬁnance leases (840) (740)
New bank loans raised 10,000 9,571
Increase in bank overdrafts 530 2,197
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (8,278) (2,063)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 5,107 (734)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 43,476 43,684
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (825) 526
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 47,758 43,476
Company
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 28 5,851 (1,126)
Investing activities
Interest received 45 52
Net cash from investing activities 45 52
Financing activities
Dividends paid 10 (4,030) (3,096)
Repayments of borrowings (13,521) (9,100)
New bank loans raised 10,000 9,571
Increase in bank overdrafts 1,055 3,911
Net cash (used in)/from ﬁnancing activities (6,496) 1,286
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (600) 212
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,155 943
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 555 1,155
Cash Flow Statements Charles Taylor plc
50
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Share  
capital 
 £000
Share 
premium 
account 
£000
Merger 
reserve 
£000
Capital 
reserve  
£000
Own  
shares  
£000
Proﬁt  
and loss 
account 
£000
Non-
controlling 
interests  
£000
Total  
£000
At 1 January 2012 403 30,635 6,872 662 – (6,340) 36,537 68,769
Issue of share capital ––––––––
Share premium arising on issue of share 
capital ––––––––
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year – – – – – 6,537 (1,163) 5,374
Dividends paid (note 10) – – – – – (4,030) – (4,030)
Actuarial gains on deﬁned beneﬁt 
pension schemes (note 29) – – – – – 850 – 850
Tax on items taken to equity – – – – – (1,428) – (1,428)
Foreign currency exchange differences – – – – – (727) (64) (791)
Movement in own shares – – – – (385) – – (385)
Movement in share-based payments – – – – – 825 – 825
Gains on cash ﬂow hedges – – – – – 629 – 629
Adjustment arising from change in non-
controlling interests ––––––––
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – – (13,202) (13,202)
Other movements – –––––––
At 31 December 2012 403 30,635 6,872 662 (385) (3,684) 22,108 56,611
At 1 January 2011 403 30,635 6,872 662 (310) 2,432 36,746 77,440
Issue of share capital – – – – – – – –
Share premium arising on issue of share 
capital ––––––––
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year – – – – – 5,123 (557) 4,566
Dividends paid (note 10) – – – – – (3,096) – (3,096)
Actuarial losses on deﬁned beneﬁt 
pension schemes (note 29) – – – – – (12,518) – (12,518)
Tax on items taken to equity – – – – – 2,074 – 2,074
Foreign currency exchange differences – – – – – 44 25 69
Movement in own shares – – – – 310 (310) – –
Movement in share-based payments – – – – – 128 – 128
Losses on cash ﬂow hedges – – – – – (213) – (213)
Adjustment arising from change in non-
controlling interests – – – – – – 323 323
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – – – –
Other movements – – – – – (4) – (4)
At 31 December 2011 403 30,635 6,872 662 – (6,340) 36,537 68,769
The capital reserve and merger reserve arose on formation of the Group and are non-distributable capital reserves.
Own shares comprise 238,920 (2011: nil) shares held by the Charles Taylor Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust (“ESOP”). The market 
value of these shares was £402,580 (2011: £nil) at the balance sheet date.
The trustee of the ESOP is the Codan Trust Company Limited, an independent professional trust company registered in Bermuda. The 
ESOP is a discretionary trust for the beneﬁt of employees of the Group and provides a source of shares to distribute to the Group’s 
employees (including executive directors and ofﬁcers) under the Group’s various bonus and incentivisation schemes, at the discretion of 
the trustee acting on the recommendation of a committee of the Board.
The assets, liabilities, income and costs of the ESOP are incorporated into the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 
There are no signiﬁcant restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to transfer funds to the parent in the form of cash dividends or to repay 
loans or advances other than company law requirements dealing with distributable proﬁts, and in the case of the insurance companies 
regulatory permissions and solvency limits.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Charles Taylor plc
51
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
Share  
capital  
£000
Share  
premium  
account  
£000
Proﬁt 
 and loss  
account  
£000
Total 
£000
At 1 January 2012 403 30,635 15,253 46,291
Issue of share capital ––––
Share premium arising on issue of share capital – – – –
Loss for the ﬁnancial year – – (1,601) (1,601)
Dividends paid (note 10) – – (4,030) (4,030)
Gains on cash ﬂow hedges – – 629 629
At 31 December 2012 403 30,635 10,251 41,289
Share  
capital  
£000
Share  
premium  
account  
£000
Proﬁt 
 and loss  
account  
£000
Total 
£000
At 1 January 2011 403 30,635 12,207 43,245
Issue of share capital ––––
Share premium arising on issue of share capital – – – –
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year – – 6,355 6,355
Dividends paid (note 10) – – (3,096) (3,096)
Losses on cash ﬂow hedges – – (213) (213)
At 31 December 2011 403 30,635 15,253 46,291
Company Statement of Changes in Equity Charles Taylor plc
52
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements
1. Accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs). The ﬁnancial 
statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group ﬁnancial 
statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain properties and ﬁnancial 
instruments. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the assets. The principal 
accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Structure of accounting policies
The accounting policies below are structured as follows:
(a) Adoption of new and revised IFRSs.
(b) Basis of consolidation.
(c) Group-wide policies.
(d) Accounting for insurance contracts and investment contracts business
(i) Non-life business.
(ii) Life business.
The most material estimates and judgements management have made in applying the accounting policies are described in note 2.
(a) Adoption of new and revised IFRSs 
(i) Standards and Interpretations adopted with no effect on financial statements
The following amendments were made as part of Improvements to IFRSs (2010). These amendments have had no impact on the Group.
Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures  The amendments increase the disclosure requirements for transactions involving 
the transfer of ﬁnancial assets in order to provide greater transparency around 
risk exposures when ﬁnancial assets are transferred.
(ii) Standards and Interpretations in issue not yet adopted
At the date of authorisation of these ﬁnancial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these 
ﬁnancial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU):
IFRS 7 (amended)     Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
Annual Improvements to IFRSs    (2009 – 2011) Cycle
IFRS 9      Financial Instruments
IFRS 10      Consolidated Financial Statements
IFRS 13      Fair Value Measurement
IAS 1 (amended)     Presentation of ﬁnancial statements
IAS 19 (revised)     Employee Beneﬁts 
IAS 27 (revised)     Separate Financial Statements
IAS 28 (revised)     Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
IAS 32 (amended)     Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
The directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the ﬁnancial statements of the 
Group in future periods, except as follows:
 IFRS 13 will impact the measurement of fair value for certain assets and liabilities as well as the associated disclosures;
 IAS 1 increases the required level of disclosure within the Statement of Comprehensive Income; and
 IAS 19 (revised) will impact the measurement of the various components representing movements in the deﬁned beneﬁt pension 
obligation and associated disclosures, but not the Group’s total obligation. It is likely that following the replacement of expected returns 
on plan assets with a net ﬁnance cost in the income statement, the proﬁt for the period will be reduced and accordingly other 
comprehensive income increased. 
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed review 
has been completed. 
(b) Basis of consolidation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements incorporate the ﬁnancial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its 
subsidiaries) made up to 31 December each year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the ﬁnancial and 
operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain beneﬁts from its activities.
The Company owns a number of insurance companies. The assets of the insurance companies are held for the beneﬁt of the policyholders 
in the ﬁrst instance and the Group’s interest is restricted to income from managing these businesses and a share in any surplus after 
deferred consideration payments to the former owners. Consequently, although fully consolidated, the assets and liabilities relating to 
insurance companies are separately identiﬁed in these ﬁnancial statements.  Charles Taylor plc
53
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
1. Accounting policies continued
Similarly, the income and expense items relating to insurance contracts are grouped together in the consolidated income statement 
because most are related, for example claims and related insurance recoveries, and to distinguish them from the Group’s main activities.
The analysis between current and non-current assets and liabilities is not useful for insurance companies. The assets and liabilities of the 
insurance companies have been classiﬁed as current rather than non-current for practical purposes and to conform with the presentation 
used in these ﬁnancial statements, although in practice an element is expected to be settled in more than one year.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective 
date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the ﬁnancial 
statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group. All intra-group transactions, 
balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identiﬁed separately from the Group’s equity therein. Those interests of non-controlling 
shareholders that are present ownership interests entitling their holders to a proportionate share of net assets upon liquidation may be 
initially measured at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the fair value of the acquiree’s identiﬁable net 
assets. The choice of measurement is made on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis. Other non-controlling interests are initially measured at 
fair value. Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition 
plus the non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in equity. Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling 
interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deﬁcit balance.
Changes in the Group’s interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying 
amount of the Group’s interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reﬂect the changes in their relative interests in the 
subsidiaries. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration 
paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the Company.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the proﬁt or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between (i) the aggregate of the 
fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and (ii) the previous carrying amount of the assets 
(including goodwill), less liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests. Amounts previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income in relation to the subsidiary are accounted for (i.e. reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss or transferred directly to retained 
earnings) in the same manner as would be required if the relevant assets or liabilities are disposed of. The fair value of any investment 
retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent 
accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement or, when applicable, the costs on initial recognition of an 
investment in an associate or jointly controlled entity. 
Going concern
The directors have, at the time of approving the ﬁnancial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting in preparing the ﬁnancial statements. Further detail is contained in the Directors’ Report on page 40.
Business combinations
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration for each acquisition is 
measured at the aggregate of the fair values (at the date of exchange) of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments 
issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in proﬁt and loss as incurred.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, 
measured at its acquisition-date fair value. Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they 
qualify as measurement period adjustments (see below). All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration 
classiﬁed as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs. Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration 
classiﬁed as equity are not recognised. 
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group’s previously-held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to fair 
value at the acquisition date (i.e., the date the Group attains control) and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in proﬁt and loss. 
Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive 
income are reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss, where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of.
The acquiree’s identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 (2008) are 
recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that:
 deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee beneﬁt arrangements are recognised and measured in 
accordance with IAS 12 Income taxes and IAS 19 Employee Beneﬁts respectively;
 liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by the Group of an acquiree’s share-based payment awards are measured in 
accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based payment; and
 assets (or disposal groups) that are classiﬁed as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that Standard. Charles Taylor plc
54
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
1. Accounting policies continued
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the 
Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. These provisional amounts are adjusted during the 
measurement period (see below), or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reﬂect new information obtained about facts and 
circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected that amounts recognised as of that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and 
circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Investments in associates 
An associate is an entity over which the Group has signiﬁcant inﬂuence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture. 
Signiﬁcant inﬂuence is the power to participate in the ﬁnancial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control over these 
policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these ﬁnancial statements using the equity method of accounting, 
except when the investment is classiﬁed as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets 
held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the consolidated balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition 
changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments. Losses of the 
associates in excess of the Group’s interest in those associates (which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the 
Group’s net investment in the associate) are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or 
made payments on behalf of the associate.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill. The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the 
investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment. Any excess of the group’s share of the net fair value of the 
identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in proﬁt 
and loss.
Where a group company transacts with an associate or joint venture of the Group, proﬁts and losses are eliminated to the extent of the 
Group’s interest in the relevant associate or joint venture. 
(c) Group-wide policies
Goodwill
Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired (the acquisition date). Goodwill is 
measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair 
value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest (if any) in the entity over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identiﬁable 
assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the fair value of the acquiree’s identiﬁable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration 
transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in 
the acquiree (if any), the excess is recognised immediately in proﬁt or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least annually. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to 
each of the Group’s cash-generating units expected to beneﬁt from the synergies of the combination. Cash-generating units to which 
goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be 
impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated 
ﬁrst to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the 
carrying amount of each asset in the unit. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period. 
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the proﬁt or loss on disposal.
The Group’s policy for goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate is described above.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to 
being tested for impairment. 
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for services provided 
in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.  Charles Taylor plc
55
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
1. Accounting policies continued
Rendering of services
Revenue from a contract to provide services is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract. Revenue from time 
contracts is recognised at the contractual rates as labour hours are delivered and direct expenses incurred. 
Dividend and interest revenue
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established (provided that it 
is probable that the economic beneﬁts will ﬂow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably). 
Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic beneﬁts will ﬂow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be 
measured reliably. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate 
applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the ﬁnancial asset to that 
asset’s net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Leasing 
Leases are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classiﬁed as operating leases.
Assets held under ﬁnance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum 
lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as 
a ﬁnance lease obligation. 
Lease payments are apportioned between ﬁnance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest 
on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance expenses are recognised immediately in proﬁt or loss, unless they are directly attributable 
to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Group’s general policy on borrowing costs. Contingent 
rentals are recognised as expenses in the periods in which they are incurred.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease except where 
another more systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic beneﬁts from the lease asset are consumed. 
Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability. The aggregate 
beneﬁt of incentives is recognised as a reduction of rental expense on a straight-line basis, except where another systematic basis is more 
representative of the time pattern in which economic beneﬁts from the leased asset are consumed.
Foreign currencies 
The individual ﬁnancial statements of each group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it 
operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, the results and ﬁnancial position of each group 
company are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
In preparing the ﬁnancial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling (foreign currencies) 
are recognised at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and 
liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. Non-monetary items carried at fair 
value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences are recognised in proﬁt and loss in the period in which they arise except for:
 exchange differences on transactions entered into to hedge certain foreign currency risks (see below under ﬁnancial instruments/hedge 
accounting); and
 exchange differences on monetary items receivable from or payable to a foreign operation for which settlement is neither planned nor 
likely to occur (therefore forming part of the net investment in the foreign operation), which are recognised initially in other 
comprehensive income and reclassiﬁed from equity to proﬁt or loss on disposal or partial disposal of the net investment.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated ﬁnancial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated at 
exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the 
period, unless exchange rates ﬂuctuate signiﬁcantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are 
used. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity (attributed to 
non-controlling interests as appropriate).
On the disposal of a foreign operation (i.e., a disposal of the Group’s entire interest in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of control 
over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, or loss of signiﬁcant inﬂuence over an associate that includes a foreign operation), all of the 
accumulated exchange differences in respect of that operation attributable to the group are reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss.  Charles Taylor plc
56
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
1. Accounting policies continued
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and 
translated at the closing rate. The Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions before the date of 
transition to IFRSs as sterling-denominated assets and liabilities.
Operating profit
Operating proﬁt is stated after charging restructuring costs and after the share of results of associates and joint ventures but before 
investment income and ﬁnance costs.
Retirement benefit costs 
Payments to deﬁned contribution retirement beneﬁt schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. Payments made to state-
managed retirement beneﬁt schemes are dealt with as payments to deﬁned contribution schemes where the Group’s obligations under the 
schemes are equivalent to those arising in a deﬁned contribution retirement beneﬁt scheme.
For deﬁned beneﬁt retirement beneﬁt schemes, the cost of providing beneﬁts is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with 
actuarial valuations being carried out at the end of each reporting period. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in 
which they occur. They are recognised outside proﬁt or loss and presented in other comprehensive income.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the beneﬁts are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line 
basis over the average period until the beneﬁts become vested.
The retirement beneﬁt obligation recognised in the consolidated balance sheet represents the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt 
obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this 
calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
Share-based payments 
The Group operates three share-based payment schemes: an executive scheme, a long-term incentive scheme (“LTIP”) for senior 
employees and a share-save (“SAYE”) scheme open to all qualifying employees. 
Equity-settled share-based payments to employees and others providing similar services are measured at the fair value of the equity 
instruments at the grant date. The fair value excludes the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions. Details regarding the 
determination of the fair value of equity-settled share-based transactions are as follows:
 Fair values for the executive scheme and the SAYE scheme are measured by use of the Black-Scholes-Merton pricing model. The 
expected option life used in the model is based on management’s best estimates, taking behavioural considerations into account.
 Fair values for the LTIP are determined using a stochastic (Monte Carlo simulation) pricing model which calculates the fair value of the 
market related element of the LTIP awards by comparing the company’s TSR performance against a comparator group of companies. 
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting 
period, based on the Group’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest. At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its 
estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions. The impact 
of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in proﬁt and loss such that the cumulative expense reﬂects the revised 
estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
SAYE share options granted to employees are treated as cancelled when employees cease to contribute to the scheme. This results in 
accelerated recognition of the expenses that would have arisen over the remainder of the original vesting period.
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised for the services acquired, measured initially at the fair value of the liability. 
At each balance sheet date until the liability is settled, and at the date of settlement, the fair value of the liability is remeasured, with any 
changes in fair value recognised in proﬁt or loss for the year.
Further information on the Group’s schemes is provided in note 24 and in the Remuneration Committee Report.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Current tax
The tax currently payable is based on taxable proﬁt for the year. Taxable proﬁt differs from net proﬁt as reported in the income statement 
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never 
taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the balance sheet date. Charles Taylor plc
57
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
1. Accounting policies continued
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
ﬁnancial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable proﬁt, and is accounted for using the balance 
sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁts will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be 
utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the 
initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax proﬁt nor 
the accounting proﬁt.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests 
in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufﬁcient taxable proﬁts will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based 
on tax laws and rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the 
income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is 
also dealt with in other comprehensive income.
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets 
and liabilities on a net basis.
Property, plant and equipment
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Fixtures and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets (other than land and properties under construction) less their 
residual values over their useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases:
Buildings 2.5%
Fixtures and equipment 20%–25%
Aircraft 10%
Leasehold buildings Over the lease term
Computers 25%
Motor vehicles 25%
Assets held under ﬁnance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, 
over the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or scrappage of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Internally-generated intangible assets
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the Group’s expenditure on IT system development is recognised only if all of the 
following conditions are met:
 an asset is created that can be identiﬁed (such as software and new processes);
 it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic beneﬁts; and
 the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
The value of customer relationships is measured and recorded as an intangible asset when businesses are acquired.
Internally-generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives. Where no internally-generated intangible 
asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred. Charles Taylor plc
58
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
1. Accounting policies continued
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any 
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is 
estimated to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash ﬂows that are independent from 
other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. An intangible asset with 
an indeﬁnite useful life is tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ﬂows 
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks speciﬁc to the asset for which the estimates of future cash ﬂows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the 
asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in proﬁt or loss, unless 
the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised 
estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss 
is recognised immediately in proﬁt or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the 
impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument. 
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair value. Trade receivables do not carry any interest. Appropriate allowances for 
estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the proﬁt or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
Recognition of investments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where the purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose 
terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, 
plus transaction costs.
Held to maturity investments
Debt securities that the Group has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity (held-to-maturity debt securities) are measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment, with revenue recognised on an effective yield basis. 
Investments at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)
Investments classiﬁed as FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in proﬁt or loss. The 
net gain or loss recognised in proﬁt or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the ﬁnancial asset. 
Available for sale (AFS) investments
Investments classiﬁed as AFS are stated at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in other 
comprehensive income and accumulated in the investments revaluation reserve with the exception of impairment losses, which are 
recognised directly in proﬁt and loss. Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss 
previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss. 
Impairment
Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date. Financial assets are 
impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the ﬁnancial 
asset, the estimated future cash ﬂows of the investment have been affected. 
For ﬁnancial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the 
present value of estimated future cash ﬂows, discounted at the ﬁnancial asset’s original effective interest rate.
When an AFS ﬁnancial asset is considered to be impaired, cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in other comprehensive 
income are reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss in the period. 
With the exception of AFS equity instruments, if in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease 
can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is 
reversed through the proﬁt or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed, does not 
exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.   Charles Taylor plc
59
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
1. Accounting policies continued
In respect of AFS equity securities, impairment losses previously recognised in proﬁt or loss are not reversed through proﬁt or loss. Any 
increase in fair value subsequent to an impairment loss is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits, bank overdrafts and other short-term highly liquid investments that 
are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insigniﬁcant risk of changes in value. Amounts of this nature held in 
insurance companies have been shown within assets in insurance businesses and are not generally available for use by the Group.
Client funds under group control outside the insurance companies are included in the balance sheet under cash and cash equivalents with 
a corresponding liability recognised and are also not generally available for use by the Group.
Financial liabilities and equity
Debt and equity instruments are classiﬁed as either ﬁnancial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual 
arrangement.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are 
subsequently carried at amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is 
recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.  
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest income over the 
relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees and points paid 
or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected 
life of the debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Trade payables
Trade payables are initially measured at fair value. They are not interest-bearing.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity 
Instruments issued by the Group are recognised as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group enters into a variety of derivative ﬁnancial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk, 
including foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps. Further details of derivative ﬁnancial instruments are disclosed in 
note 25.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair 
value at each balance sheet date. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in proﬁt or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated 
and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in proﬁt or loss depends on the nature of the hedge 
relationship. The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency 
risk of ﬁrm commitments (cash ﬂow hedges).
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a ﬁnancial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a 
ﬁnancial liability. A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more 
than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months. Other derivatives are presented as current assets or 
current liabilities.
Hedge accounting
The Group designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives, as cash ﬂow hedges. At the inception of the hedge 
relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management 
objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing 
basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash ﬂows of the hedged item.
Note 25 sets out details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes.
Cash flow hedge
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ﬂow hedges is recognised in other 
comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in proﬁt or loss. 
  Charles Taylor plc
60
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
1. Accounting policies continued
Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss in the periods 
when the hedged item is recognised in proﬁt or loss, in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item. However, 
when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-ﬁnancial asset or a non-ﬁnancial liability, the gains and 
losses previously accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-ﬁnancial 
asset or non-ﬁnancial liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, 
or exercised, or no longer qualiﬁes for hedge accounting. Any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income at that time is 
accumulated in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in proﬁt or loss. When a forecast 
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognised immediately in proﬁt or loss.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the 
Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. 
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance 
sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash ﬂows 
estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash ﬂows. 
When some or all of the economic beneﬁts required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is 
recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured 
reliably.
Restructurings
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid 
expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to 
those affected by it. The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, 
which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Onerous contracts
Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured as provisions. An onerous contract is considered to 
exist where the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the 
economic beneﬁts expected to be received under it.
(d) Accounting for insurance contracts and investment contracts businesses
(i) Non-life business
Revenue from insurance contracts
Revenue from insurance contracts represents premiums earned. Premiums are earned pro rata on a time apportioned basis. Unearned 
premiums, representing unexpired periods of indemnity, are deferred and included in the balance sheet as a liability under insurance 
technical balances. The treatment of associated acquisition costs and reinsurance premiums follows that of the underlying premium. If it is 
likely that the unearned premium will not be sufﬁcient to cover future losses, then further provision is made.
Claims
Claims incurred comprise claims and related expenses paid in the year and changes in the provision for outstanding claims. The treatment 
of associated reinsurance recoveries follows that of the underlying claim. 
Insurance technical provisions
These include outstanding claim provisions and unearned premium as liabilities and their associated reinsurance recoveries as assets, as 
well as any deferred acquisition costs.
Outstanding claims provisions
Provision is made at the year end for the estimated cost of claims incurred but not settled at the balance sheet date, including the cost of 
claims incurred but not yet reported to the Group. The estimated cost of claims includes expenses to be incurred in settling claims and a 
deduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries. The Group takes all reasonable steps to ensure that it has appropriate 
information regarding its claims exposures. However, given the uncertainty in establishing claims provisions, it is likely that the ﬁnal 
outcome will prove to be different from the original liability established.
The estimation of claims incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) is generally subject to a greater degree of uncertainty than the estimation of 
claims already notiﬁed to the Group.  Charles Taylor plc
61
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
1. Accounting policies continued
In calculating the estimated cost of unpaid claims the Group uses a variety of estimation techniques, generally based upon statistical 
analyses of historical experience, which assumes that the development pattern of the current claims will be consistent with past 
experience. Allowance is made, however, for changes or uncertainties which may create distortions in the underlying statistics or which 
might cause the cost of unsettled claims to increase or reduce when compared with the cost of previously settled claims including: 
 changes in company processes which might accelerate or slow down the development and/or recording of paid or incurred claims 
compared with the statistics from previous periods;
 changes in the legal environment;
 the effects of inﬂation;
 changes in the mix of business;
 the impact of large losses; and
 movements in industry benchmarks.
Large claims impacting each relevant business class are generally assessed separately, being measured on a case-by-case basis or 
projected separately in order to allow for the possible distorting effect of the development and incidence of these large claims. 
Provisions are calculated gross of any reinsurance recoveries. Potential reinsurance recoveries are calculated as a function of claims, and 
shown separately in the balance sheet as “amounts receivable under reinsurance contracts”.
The Group assesses its reinsurance assets for impairment on a quarterly basis. If there is objective evidence that the reinsurance asset is 
impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount of the reinsurance asset to its recoverable amount and recognises that impairment loss 
in the income statement for the period. 
Receivables and payables related to insurance contracts
Receivables and payables are recognised when due. These include amounts due to and from agents, brokers and insurance contract 
holders. 
If there is objective evidence that the insurance receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount of the insurance receivable 
accordingly and recognises that impairment loss in the income statement for the period. 
Non-life run-off provision for future non-operating losses
At the date of acquisition a provision is made for the expected operating losses to be incurred over the run-off period. This provision is 
released to the income statement over the expected life of the run-off.
Discount on reserves
At the date of acquisition the expected value of the claims are discounted to their present value and an asset is recognised reﬂecting this 
discount. This asset is amortised through the income statement over the expected life of the run-off.
 
(ii) Life business
Insurance and investment contracts – classification
The policyholders own contracts with the Group that transfer insurance risk or ﬁnancial risk or both.
Insurance contracts are those contracts that transfer signiﬁcant insurance risk. Such contracts may also transfer ﬁnancial risk. As a general 
guideline, the Group deﬁnes as signiﬁcant insurance risk the possibility of having to pay beneﬁts on the occurrence of an insured event that 
are at least 10% more than the beneﬁts payable if the insured event did not occur. The majority of the insurance risk arises on contracts 
where optional insurance beneﬁts were applied for at outset by the insured. The group practice is to treat the insurance element as a 
separate unbundled contract.
Investment contracts are those contracts that transfer ﬁnancial risk with no signiﬁcant insurance risk.
Further contract distinctions are “Unit Linked” and “Discretionary Participation Features” (“DPF”). Unit-linked contracts are those linked to 
speciﬁc assets, such that the value of contracts moves in line with the value of assets. DPF contracts are those where the policyholders 
may receive a bonus, generally based on investment performance. Unit and non-unit linked policies may or may not have DPF.
Revenue recognition
For investment contracts, amounts collected as “premiums” are not included in the income statement. They are reported as deposits in the 
balance sheet (under investment contract assets).
Insurance premiums on insurance policies and fees charged on investment contracts are included as revenue in the income statement and 
are recognised as services are provided. Charles Taylor plc
62
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
1. Accounting policies continued
Claims
Claims under insurance contracts are recognised when payments are due. Claims costs include claims handling costs.
“Claims” under investment contracts are not reﬂected in the income statement. They are deducted from investment contract liabilities in the 
balance sheet.
Provisions for liabilities
The provisions for insurance contract liabilities are established using methods and assumptions approved by management based on 
advice from actuaries. This is based initially on the reserves required for regulatory purposes and adjusted to eliminate undistributed 
surplus income and various regulatory or contingency reserves. This basis is commonly referred to as the “modiﬁed statutory solvency 
basis”. Provisions are shown gross of reinsurance recoveries.
Investment contracts consist mainly of unit-linked contracts. Unit-linked liabilities are determined by reference to the value of the underlying 
matched assets.
Value of business acquired
On acquisition of a portfolio of contracts, either directly from another insurer or through the acquisition of a subsidiary, the Group 
recognises an intangible asset representing the value of business acquired (“VOBA”). VOBA represents the present value of future proﬁts 
embedded in acquired contracts. The Group amortises VOBA over the effective life of the acquired contracts.
2. Accounting judgements
Critical areas of management judgement and estimation
The following are the critical judgements and estimates that the directors have made in the process of applying the Group’s accounting 
policies and that have the most signiﬁcant effect on the amounts recognised in ﬁnancial statements.  
Revenue recognition in the Adjusting Services business
Revenue is recognised when there is a contractual right to be paid in relation to past performance of contractual obligations. In practice, 
the Group maintains time recording systems to capture time chargeable to clients and speciﬁed hourly rates are ascribed to the hours 
recorded by the case handlers. Hourly rates are usually agreed in advance in the form of pre-engagement contractual terms or are based 
on standard hourly rates applicable to the type of work and country in which the work is performed.
Regular periodic reviews are performed by case handlers, and by management, to ensure the carrying value of work on unﬁnished cases 
reﬂects management’s view of its ultimate realisable value. Provisions against irrecoverable work-in-progress (accrued income) and 
outstanding fees are made where the realisable value is expected to be lower than the carrying value and conversely upwards revaluations 
of work-in-progress are made where management considers the carrying value is lower than the amount ultimately recoverable.
Accrued income and fee receivables are shown in these accounts at their fair value. Because of the time taken between the initial recording 
of accrued income and its ultimate billing and the time taken to collect outstanding fee receivables, a discount is applied to the amounts 
shown to reﬂect the time value of money. The discount rate used is a signiﬁcant judgement.
Fair valuation of acquisitions
The Group has included the assets and liabilities of the entities acquired during the period in its consolidated balance sheet at the date of 
acquisition at their fair values. The fair values of assets and liabilities acquired are different in a number of instances from the values shown 
in the entities’ own ﬁnancial statements. This is due to the application of different accounting policies in these ﬁnancial statements or the 
application of fair valuation principles to assets and liabilities recorded by the entities under other bases such as historical cost (for instance 
due to discounting requirements of acquisition accounting). Bargain purchase gains have arisen where the fair value of net assets acquired 
exceeds the purchase consideration. Bargain purchase gains are recognised in proﬁt and loss at the date of acquisition.
Impairment of goodwill and intangibles
Goodwill and intangibles have arisen in relation to the Group’s acquisitions of subsidiaries and is represented by the difference between the 
estimated cost of the acquisitions and the fair value of the net assets acquired in those acquisitions. The Company is required to assess 
annually, or more often if there is an indication of impairment, the carrying value of goodwill and intangibles. It does this by assessing the 
future cash ﬂows generated by the business units to which the goodwill and intangibles have been allocated and by discounting those 
cash ﬂows to assess whether the discounted value is higher or lower than the carrying value of the related goodwill and intangibles. 
Management judgement is applied, in particular, in the initial allocation of goodwill to cash-generating units, in assessing future cash ﬂows 
and in determining appropriate discount rates. Charles Taylor plc
63
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
2. Accounting judgements continued
Insurance reserves
Insurance reserves are set to reﬂect management’s best estimate of the ultimate cost of settling claims incurred under insurance policies 
previously written by the insurance companies acquired. A number of actuarial estimation techniques have been used in arriving at the 
insurance reserves recorded in these ﬁnancial statements. Further details are given in the accounting policies section.
Pensions
The Group sponsors a number of deﬁned beneﬁt retirement schemes for employees. The scheme assets and the obligation to provide 
future beneﬁts are included in the group balance sheet. The cost of providing beneﬁts to employees is reﬂected as a charge in the group 
income statement. The respective scheme actuaries are engaged by the Company to assist management in determining the amounts to 
be recorded in these Financial Statements. In this regard, management is responsible for determining the assumptions to be used in the 
actuarial calculations such as the expected return on plan assets, salary growth and inﬂation. Further details of the assumptions used are 
given in note 29.
Taxation 
The Group’s tax charge on ordinary activities is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges. The calculation of the Group’s total 
tax charge involves a degree of estimation and judgement until tax returns have been ﬁled and agreed. Payments in respect of tax liabilities 
for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the ﬁnal resolution of open items. 
Recognition of deferred tax assets
The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is probable that future taxable proﬁts will be available, against which they 
can be utilised. Recognition, therefore, involves judgement regarding the future ﬁnancial performance of the particular legal entity or tax 
group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
3. Segmental information
Identiﬁcation of segments
For management and internal reporting purposes the Group is currently organised into four operating businesses whose principal activities 
are as follows:
 Management Services business – mutual management service.
 Adjusting Services business – energy, aviation, non marine and marine (including average) adjusting.
 Insurance Support Services business – non-life and life insurance support services, including captive management, investment 
management and risk management.
 Insurers in Run-off business – non-life and life insurance companies closed to new business.
Management information about these businesses is regularly provided to the Group’s chief operating decision maker to assess their performance 
and to make decisions about the allocation of resources. Accordingly, these businesses correspond with the Group’s operating segments 
under IFRS 8 Operating Segments. Businesses forming part of each business which might otherwise qualify as reportable operating 
segments have been aggregated where they share similar economic characteristics and meet the other aggregation criteria in IFRS 8. 
As noted in the 2011 Financial Statements, our investment management, captive management and risk management businesses have 
moved from Management Services to Insurance Support Services from January 2012. The comparative ﬁgures below have been restated 
to reﬂect this change.
In the Management Services business, a higher proportion of revenue arises in the second half of the ﬁnancial year. There is no signiﬁcant  
seasonality or cyclicality in the other businesses. Charles Taylor plc
64
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
3. Segmental information continued
Measurement of segmental results and assets
Transactions between reportable segments are accounted for on the basis of the contractual arrangements in place for the provision of 
goods or services between segments and in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. Reportable segment results and assets are 
also measured on a basis consistent with the Group’s accounting policies. Operating segment proﬁt includes an allocation of central costs 
across the four businesses and excludes non-recurring adjusting items. Reconciliations of segmental results to the Group proﬁt before tax 
are set out below.
Information about major customers
The Group derived revenue of £28.7m (31 December 2011: £24.7m) from one external customer which accounts for more than 10% of 
Group revenue, and is included within the Management Services business.
Professional Services businesses Run-off Other Group
Year to 31 December 2012
Management 
Services 
£000
Adjusting 
Services 
£000
Insurance 
Support 
Services 
£000
Unallocated 
£000
Total 
£000
Insurers in 
Run-off 
£000
Inter-
segment 
eliminations 
£000
Total 
£000
Revenue from external clients 39,029 50,255 13,494 47 102,825 5,378 – 108,203
Revenue from other operating segments – – 3,252 – 3,252 – (3,252) –
Total revenue 39,029 50,255 16,746 47 106,077 5,378 (3,252) 108,203
Depreciation and amortisation (801) (1,249) (649) – (2,699) (580) – (3,279)
Other expenses (31,159) (46,276) (15,978) (125) (93,538) (4,577) 3,252 (94,863)
Operating segment proﬁt 7,069 2,730 119 (78) 9,840 221 – 10,061
Share of results of associates 42
Amortisation of customer relationship 
intangibles (1,282)
Non-recurring costs –
Operating proﬁt 8,821
Investment and other income 116
Finance costs (1,861)
Proﬁt before tax 7,076
Amortisation of customer relationship 
intangibles 1,282
Non-recurring costs –
Non-controlling interests before tax 1,210
Proﬁt before tax – adjusted 9,568
Professional Services businesses Run-off Other Group
Year to 31 December 2011 (restated)
Management 
Services 
£000
Adjusting 
Services 
£000
Insurance 
Support 
Services 
£000
Unallocated 
£000
Total 
£000
Insurers in 
Run-off 
£000
Inter-segment 
eliminations 
£000
Total 
£000
Revenue from external clients 34,599 50,050 14,217 5 98,871 3,588 – 102,459
Revenue from other operating segments – – 2,571 – 2,571 – (2,571) –
Total revenue 34,599 50,050 16,788 5 101,442 3,588 (2,571) 102,459
Depreciation and amortisation (662) (1,122) (702) – (2,486) (1,012) – (3,498)
Other expenses (28,220) (43,177) (15,878) (100) (87,375) (3,228) 2,571 (88,032)
Operating segment proﬁt 5,717 5,751 208 (95) 11,581 (652) – 10,929
Share of results of associates 123
Amortisation of customer relationship 
intangibles (1,805)
Non-recurring costs (748)
Operating proﬁt 8,499
Investment and other income 105
Finance costs (1,946)
Non-recurring costs (279)
Proﬁt before tax 6,379
Amortisation of customer relationship 
intangibles 1,805
Non-recurring costs 1,027
Non-controlling interests before tax 345
Proﬁt before tax – adjusted               9,556 Charles Taylor plc
65
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
3. Segmental information continued
At 31 December 2012 
£000
At 31 December 2011 (restated) 
£000
 
Professional 
Services 
businesses
Insurers in 
Run-off Group
Professional 
Services 
businesses
Insurers in 
Run-off Group
Management Services business 3,545 – 3,545 2,902 – 2,902
Adjusting Services business 97,465 – 97,465 96,220 – 96,220
Insurance Support Services business 32,743 – 32,743 31,643 – 31,643
Unallocated assets and eliminations 26,034 – 26,034 29,061 – 29,061
Insurers in Run-off business – 352,788 352,788 – 347,401 347,401
Total assets 159,787 352,788 512,575 159,826 347,401 507,227
– Non-current assets 60,769 3,461 64,230 63,509 3,946 67,455
– Current assets 99,018 349,327 448,345 96,317 343,455 439,772
Total assets 159,787 352,788 512,575 159,826 347,401 507,227
Current liabilities (75,857) (312,876) (388,733) (71,492) (290,713) (362,205)
Deferred consideration – (5,288) (5,288) – (2,000) (2,000)
Net current assets 23,161 31,163 54,324 24,825 50,742 75,567
Non-current liabilities (52,787) (140) (52,927) (59,511) (352) (59,863)
Deferred consideration – (9,016) (9,016) – (14,390) (14,390)
Total liabilities (128,644) (327,320) (455,964) (131,003) (307,455) (438,458)
Net assets 31,143 25,468 56,611 28,823 39,946 68,769
Non-controlling interests (1,041) (21,067) (22,108) (1,163) (35,374) (36,537)
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 30,102 4,401 34,503 27,660 4,572 32,232
Revenue 
Year to 31 December
Non-current assets
1
 
At 31 December
Geographical information
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
United Kingdom 29,379 30,963 44,207 46,662
Other Europe 9,242 7,574 3,774 3,228
North America 13,470 13,122 6,249 5,336
Asia Paciﬁc 15,245 14,154 1,290 1,345
Bermuda 40,867 36,646 1,028 1,304
  108,203 102,459 56,548 57,875
1 Excluding deferred tax. Charles Taylor plc
66
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
4. Administrative expenses
Year to 31 December
2012 
 £000
2011  
£000
Administrative expenses are as follows:
Staff costs 72,351 66,276
Depreciation and other amounts written off tangible ﬁxed assets 2,066 1,929
Other operating charges 20,594 22,174
Total administrative expenses 95,011 90,379
Operating proﬁt is stated after charging
Rentals under operating leases:
Land and buildings 4,448 4,291
Hire of other assets 91 75
Depreciation and other amounts written off tangible ﬁxed assets:
Owned assets 1,286 1,239
Assets held under ﬁnance leases 780 690
Amortisation of other intangible assets (non-insurance) 2,010 2,434
Amortisation of other intangible assets (insurance) 485 940
Auditor’s remuneration
– audit fees paid to the Group’s main auditor 534 627
– fees paid to the Group’s main auditor for other services 34 54
– audit fees paid to other auditors 182 246
– fees paid to other auditors for other services 241 225
Loss on foreign exchange 303 30
The audit fee in respect of the Company was £80,000 (2011: £75,000). Fees paid to the main auditor for other services are principally for 
overseas tax compliance services.
5. Information regarding directors and employees
Year to 31 December
2012 
 £000
2011  
£000
Aggregate directors’ remuneration
Emoluments 2,407 2,131
Pension contributions 87 136
2,494 2,267
The emoluments and interests of the directors of the Company are set out in detail on pages 28 to 36.
Employees
The average number of people, including directors, employed by the Group in the year was:
Year to 31 December
2012  
No.
2011 
 No.
Executive and administration 912 888
Staff costs incurred during the year in respect of employees were:
Year to 31 December
2012 
 £000
2011  
£000
Wages and salaries 60,981 57,128
Social security costs 4,341 3,978
Other pension costs 7,029 5,170
72,351 66,276 Charles Taylor plc
67
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
6. Investment income and other income from non-insurance activities
Year to 31 December
2012 
 £000
2011  
£000
Proﬁt/(loss) on sale of ﬁxed assets 64 (236)
Interest receivable and similar income 52 62
116 (174)
7. Finance costs
Year to 31 December
2012 
 £000
2011  
£000
Bank loans and overdrafts repayable within ﬁve years 1,476 1,529
Deferred consideration discount unwind 231 188
Other loans 129 184
Finance leases 25 45
1,861 1,946
8. Income tax expense
Year to 31 December
2012 
 £000
2011  
£000
Corporation tax:
Current year 1,222 1,482
Adjustments in respect of prior years 46 164
1,268 1,646
Deferred tax 434 167
1,702 1,813
Corporation tax is calculated at 24.5% (2011: 26.5%) of the estimated taxable proﬁt for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated 
at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. The effective tax rate on statutory proﬁt was 24.1% (2011: 28.4%).
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the proﬁt per the income statement as follows:
Year to 31 December
2012 
 £000
2011  
£000
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before tax 7,076 6,379
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 24.5% (2011: 26.5%) 1,734 1,690
Effects of:
Other expenses not deductible 741 777
Other taxable items excluded from proﬁt 85 68
Non-taxable items included in proﬁt 106 13
Lower tax rates on overseas earnings (1,547) (1,218)
UK insurance company results 537 319
Prior years’ adjustments – corporation tax 46 164
Income tax expense 1,702 1,813
9. Proﬁt of parent company
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the income statement of the parent company is not presented as part of these 
ﬁnancial statements. The parent company’s loss for the year amounted to £1.6m (2011: £6.4m proﬁt). Charles Taylor plc
68
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
10. Dividends paid
Year to 31 December
2012 
 £000
2011  
£000
Ordinary dividends paid comprise:
Final dividend paid (2011: 6.75p; 2010: 4.46p per share) 2,723 1,796
Interim dividend paid (2012: 3.25p; 2011: 3.25p per share) 1,307 1,300
4,030 3,096
A ﬁnal dividend of 6.75p per share will be paid on 24 May 2013 subject to shareholder approval on 2 May 2013. Dividends paid have been 
shown as a movement in shareholders’ funds.
11. Earnings per share
Earnings per ordinary share have been calculated by dividing the proﬁt on ordinary activities after taxation and non-controlling interests for 
each period by the weighted average number of shares in issue. The shares held by the ESOP have been excluded from the calculation 
because the trustees have waived the right to dividends on these shares.
The calculation of the statutory basic, statutory diluted and adjusted earnings per share is based on the following data:
Year to 31 December
2012 
 £000
2011  
£000
Earnings
Earnings for the purposes of adjusted earnings per share being adjusted proﬁt after tax  
attributable to owners of the Company 7,819 7,955
Amortisation of customer relationship intangibles (1,282) (1,805)
Non-recurring costs – (1,027)
Earnings for the purposes of statutory basic and diluted earnings per share being net proﬁt  
attributable to owners of the Company 6,537 5,123
Number Number
Number of shares
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 40,216,774 40,064,118
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:  
Share options 208,415 151,996
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 40,425,189 40,216,114
12. Acquisition of subsidiary
Global Life Assurance Limited
On 20 December 2012, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Global Life Assurance Limited (“GLA”) for a total 
consideration of £2.3m, consisting of cash of £1.55m and £0.75 deferred consideration payable over three years, depending on policy 
persistency levels. No proﬁt before tax for GLA since the acquisition date has been included in these ﬁnancial statements, since the result 
for the brief period of ownership in late 2012 is not material. The initial accounting for the acquisition of GLA, for which no goodwill has 
arisen, has been ﬁnalised at 31 December 2012.   Charles Taylor plc
69
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
12. Acquisition of subsidiary continued
Carrying 
amount before 
acquisition 
£000
Adjustments 
£000
Amount 
recognised at 
acquisition 
£000
Investment contract assets 55,047 – 55,047
Life insurance contract assets 3,440 – 3,440
Cash and cash equivalents 3,070 – 3,070
Loans from group companies 2,500 (2,500) –
Insurance technical balances (5,667) 1,867 (3,800)
Investment contract unit linked liabilities (55,047) – (55,047)
Other creditors (163) – (163)
Provisions – (247) (247)
3,180 (880) 2,300
Goodwill –
Consideration 2,300
Deferred consideration relating to the acquisitions of LCL International Life Assurance Company Limited and Bestpark International Limited, 
purchased by the Group in 2005 as part of its acquisition of various closed insurance companies and run-off service businesses, is 
estimated at £8.5m (2011: £9.3m). Deferred consideration for the acquisition of Beech Hill Insurance Limited is £5.8m (2011: £7.1m) – the ﬁrst 
£6.8m of distributions are payable entirely to the vendor and then for amounts exceeding £6.8m, 75% of distributions are payable up to a 
maximum of £10.0m.
13. Goodwill
At 31 December
2012 
 £000
2011  
£000
At 1 January 41,818 43,951
Other changes – (2,080)
Foreign currency exchange differences (86) (53)
At 31 December 41,732 41,818
The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually and for new acquisitions in the year of acquisition, or more frequently if there are 
indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units are determined from value in use calculations, where the key assumptions relate to 
discount rates, revenue growth and cost growth. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reﬂect current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks speciﬁc to the cash-generating units. The discount rate used in the latest impairment 
review was 7.2%. The revenue and cost growth rates used are based on reasonable management expectations for the 2013 budget and 
the following four years, with an extrapolation using a steady growth. Revenue and cost growth rates for the ﬁve-year forecast period and 
the subsequent extrapolation fall within the range of 2%–5% pa.
Goodwill has been allocated to the cash-generating units shown below, which reﬂect the way in which the business is internally managed 
and is in accordance with the segmental information shown in note 3. 
2012 
 £000
2011 
(restated)  
£000
Adjusting Services business 20,590 20,650
Insurance Support Services business 21,142 21,168
 41,732 41,818 
  Charles Taylor plc
70
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
14. Other intangible assets
(i) (ii) (iii) (iv)
IT assets 
£000
Customer 
relationships 
£000
Life insurance 
VOBA  
£000
Non-life 
discount 
on reserves 
£000
Total  
£000
Cost
At 1 January 2012 5,106 9,786 8,027 7,200 30,119
Additions 1,622 – – – 1,622
Foreign currency exchange differences – (88) – – (88)
At 31 December 2012 6,728 9,698 8,027 7,200 31,653
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2012 2,653 6,471 4,468 6,812 20,404
Amortisation 728 1,282 245 240 2,495
Foreign currency exchange differences – (71) – 1 (70)
At 31 December 2012 3,381 7,682 4,713 7,053 22,829
Net book value
At 31 December 2012 3,347 2,016 3,314 147 8,824
At 31 December 2011 2,453 3,315 3,559 388 9,715
(i)   IT assets are internally-generated intangible assets such as software and new processes. These assets are amortised over their 
expected useful lives which range between three and ten years.
(ii)   Customer relationship intangible assets represent the value of expected proﬁts arising from existing customer relationships in 
businesses acquired and are amortised so as to match the pattern of expected proﬁts.
(iii)   VOBA represents the present value of future proﬁts embedded in acquired insurance contracts and is amortised based on the 
anticipated emergence of proﬁts.
(iv)   Non-life insurance discount on reserves represents the difference between the nominal value of insurance reserves and the 
discounted value of those reserves. The intangible asset arising is amortised to match the anticipated cash ﬂows arising as insurance 
claims are paid.
15. Property, plant and equipment
Freehold  
land and 
buildings 
£000
Leasehold 
land and 
buildings 
£000
Computers 
£000
Fixtures, 
ﬁttings and 
equipment 
£000
Motor 
vehicles 
£000
Aircraft  
£000
Total  
£000
Cost
At 1 January 2012 344 1,757 8,886 5,156 1,029 193 17,365
Additions – 129 1,290 227 217 1 1,864
Disposals – – (620) (28) (256) (107) (1,011)
Foreign currency exchange differences (14) (18) (77) (91) (30) (6) (236)
At 31 December 2012 330 1,868 9,479 5,264 960 81 17,982
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2012 109 771 6,363 3,785 507 135 11,670
Charge for the year 8 148 1,261 452 193 4 2,066
Disposals – – (620) (28) (189) (81) (918)
Foreign currency exchange differences (4) (13) (60) (75) (17) (3) (172)
At 31 December 2012 113 906 6,944 4,134 494 55 12,646
Net book value
At 31 December 2012 217 962 2,535 1,130 466 26 5,336
At 31 December 2011 235 986 2,523 1,371 522 58 5,695 Charles Taylor plc
71
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
15. Property, plant and equipment continued
Included in the above are the following assets held under ﬁnance leases:
Computers 
£000
Fixtures, 
ﬁttings and 
equipment 
£000
Motor 
vehicles 
£000
Total  
£000
Cost
At 1 January 2012 2,966 192 427 3,585
Additions 561 – – 561
Disposals – – (81) (81)
Other changes – – (28) (28)
At 31 December 2012 3,527 192 318 4,037
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2012 1,807 136 207 2,150
Charge for the year 671 37 72 780
Disposals – – (55) (55)
Other changes – 1 (34) (33)
At 31 December 2012 2,478 174 190 2,842
Net book value
At 31 December 2012 1,049 18 128 1,195
At 31 December 2011 1,159 56 220 1,435
16. Investments
Associated 
undertakings 
£000
Other  
£000
Total  
£000
Group
Cost
At 1 January 2012 581 66 647
Share of proﬁt 42 – 42
Dividends received (51) – (51)
Disposals – (2) (2)
Foreign currency exchange differences 21 (1) 20
At 31 December 2012 593 63 656
Group 
undertakings 
£000
Company
Cost
At 1 January 2012 and 31 December 2012 39,089 Charles Taylor plc
72
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
17. Deferred taxation
Provided deferred taxation assets
At 31 December
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
At 1 January 9,580 7,526
Retirement beneﬁt obligation (1,419) 2,079
US tax losses (213) (212)
UK tax losses (124) 272
UK timing differences (116) 31
Overseas timing differences (62) (104)
Foreign currency exchange differences 36 (12)
At 31 December 7,682 9,580
Deferred tax comprises:
Pension liability 7,271 8,695
Losses 1,263 1,600
Other timing differences (852) (715)
 7,682 9,580
At the balance sheet date the Group has unused tax losses of £25.8m available for offset against future proﬁts. A deferred tax asset of 
£0.9m has been recognised in respect of such losses. A potential deferred tax asset of £6.0m relating to these unused tax losses and a 
potential deferred tax asset of £0.8m relating to unused capital allowances, has not been recognised as it is not considered probable that 
there will be future taxable proﬁts available. The losses may be carried forward indeﬁnitely. 
Other timing differences include £625,000 (2011: £615,000) of deferred tax liabilities relating to overseas entities.
18. Trade and other receivables
Group  
At 31 December
Company  
At 31 December
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
Trade debtors 21,367 21,344 – –
Amounts due from subsidiaries – – 123,021 113,886
Amounts due from associates 8 3 – –
Other debtors 2,186 2,258 64 71
Prepayments 4,497 3,871 1 2
Accrued income 22,736 24,961 – –
Corporation tax 466 404 – –
51,260 52,841 123,086 113,959
19. Trade and other payables
Group  
At 31 December
Company  
At 31 December
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
Trade creditors 4,037 3,100 – –
Amounts owed to subsidiaries – – 88,621 72,488
Other taxation and social security 2,043 1,884 – –
Other creditors 1,021 1,233 11 35
Accruals and deferred income 11,948 11,423 611 1,037
19,049 17,640 89,243 73,560 Charles Taylor plc
73
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
20. Borrowings
Group  
At 31 December
Company  
At 31 December
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
Bank overdrafts and loans due:
within one year 20,683 20,547 12,270 11,411
in the second to ﬁfth years inclusive 20,082 23,323 19,928 22,941
40,765 43,870 32,198 34,352
Bank loans and overdrafts are secured by charges on speciﬁc assets and cross guarantees between group companies. 
Analysis of group ﬁnance lease commitments
At 31 December
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
Minimum lease payments due: 
within one year 718 785
in the second to ﬁfth years inclusive 602 863
less: ﬁnance charges allocated to future periods (59) (97)
1,261 1,551
due within one year 675 723
due after more than one year 586 828
1,261 1,551
Finance leases are secured on the leased assets. 
At 31 December
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
Net interest-bearing liabilities
Cash and cash equivalents 47,758 43,476
Bank overdrafts (18,176) (17,645)
Current loans (2,507) (2,902)
Non-current bank loans (20,082) (23,323)
Finance leases (1,261) (1,551)
5,732 (1,945)
Client funds (35,213) (32,098)
(29,481) (34,043)
21. Provisions
The insurance run-off provision relates to future costs anticipated to be incurred in running off the non-life insurance companies, Bestpark 
International Limited, Beech Hill Insurance Limited and Cardrow Insurance Limited. Given the uncertainty in establishing run-off provisions it 
is likely that the ﬁnal outcome will be different from the original liability established.
Relocation and 
reorganisation 
£000
Premises 
dilapidations 
£000
Employee 
entitlements 
£000
Insurance 
run-off  
£000
Total  
£000
At 1 January 2012 236 100 242 352 930
Utilised in year (30) – (96) (212) (338)
Proﬁt and loss account charge – – 81 – 81
Foreign currency exchange differences – – (8) – (8)
At 31 December 2012 206 100 219 140 665 Charles Taylor plc
74
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
22. Called up share capital
At 31 December
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
Issued and fully paid
40,347,605 ordinary shares of 1p each (2011: 40,344,664) 403 403
23. Non-controlling interests
The following amounts are attributable to non-controlling interests:
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
Proﬁt/(loss) before tax
Insurers in Run-off business (1,378) (660)
Adjusting Services business 168 315
(1,210) (345)
Income tax credit/(expense)
Insurers in Run-off business 72 (178)
Adjusting Services business (25) (34)
47 (212)
Proﬁt/(loss) for the period
Insurers in Run-off business (1,306) (838)
Adjusting Services business 143 281
(1,163) (557)
Equity
Insurers in Run-off business 21,067 35,374
Adjusting Services business 1,041 1,163
22,108 36,537
The Group owns two insurance companies with signiﬁcant non-controlling interests:
Cardrow Insurance Limited
The non-controlling shareholder is entitled to future distributions and returns of capital of a ﬁxed amount being the aggregate of the 
distributable reserves of the company at the date of the company’s acquisition by the Group and £22.5m, plus 82.5% of distributions  
and returns of capital above that amount. Of the £22.5m, £13.0m was paid up in December 2012.
Bestpark International Limited
The non-controlling shareholder is entitled to 49.99% of all future distributions and returns of capital.
24. Share-based awards
Share option schemes
The Company operates an executive share option scheme for eligible employees, in which options are exercisable if earnings per ordinary 
share increase by the Retail Price Index plus 6% over a three-year period and personal targets are attained. The options expire after 
ten years from the date of grant and if the employee leaves they lapse unless exercised within six months of leaving.
The Company also operates a SAYE share option scheme for eligible employees under which options may be granted at a discount of up 
to 20% of market value. Savings contracts may run over three, ﬁve or seven years. The options lapse immediately if the employee leaves 
within three years of the option grant and lapse within six months of leaving if the employee leaves after three years of option grant. Charles Taylor plc
75
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
24. Share-based awards continued
Share options outstanding during the year to 31 December were as follows:
2012 2011
Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Outstanding at beginning of year 1,307,241 £1.62 1,874,785 £2.68
Granted during the year 232,517 £1.42 662,610 £1.10
Exercised during the year (2,941) £1.10 ––
Forfeited during the year (90,375) £1.56 (454,473) £1.53
Expired during the year (122,644) £1.81 (775,681) £3.79
Outstanding at end of year 1,323,798 £1.57 1,307,241 £1.68
Exercisable at end of year 250,852 £2.77 356,060 £2.57
Options
As at 31 December 2012 share options were outstanding as follows:
Option price 
per ordinary 
share (p)
Number of 
shares
Savings-related share option schemes
Normally exercised in the period between:
January 2013 and February 2013 144.95 22,437
October 2012 and April 2013 315.00 5,333
December 2012 and May 2013 200.52 35,835
December 2013 and May 2014 196.20 17,074
December 2013 and May 2014 144.95 144,654
December 2014 and May 2015 110.48 596,760
December 2015 and May 2016 144.95 20,249
January 2015 and June 2015 149.89 38,063
December 2015 and May 2016 141.08 184,070
December 2015 and May 2016 140.20 8,471
Executive share option schemes
Normally exercised in the period between:
April 2007 and April 2014 277.50 247,852
April 2008 and April 2015 248.50 3,000
Long-term investment plan
Normally exercised on the third anniversary of the allocation date
May 2013 280,000 
April 2014 150,000
October 2014 300,000
April 2015 280,000
  2,333,798
The share options outstanding at 31 December 2012 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 21 months. The options granted 
during 2012 had an aggregate fair value of £47,000 (2011: £96,000).
The inputs into the Black-Scholes-Merton model for options granted during the year are as follows:
Weighted average share price £1.57
Weighted average exercise price £1.41
Expected volatility 25.7%
Expected life 2–3 years
Risk-free rate 0.33%
Expected dividend yield 6.0%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price since ﬂotation in 1996. The expected 
life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions 
and behavioural considerations. Charles Taylor plc
76
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
24. Share-based awards continued
The Company recognised a total charge of £37,000 (2011: £14,000) relating to share option scheme transactions in 2012.
Long-term incentive scheme
Awards under the LTIP were made to executive directors in 2012. These awards are subject to a three-year performance period and the 
Company’s TSR performance being equal to or better than the median of the FTSE small cap index over the same period.
Awards totalling 280,000 shares (2011: 500,000) were made during the year. The Company recognised a total charge of £373,000 in 
relation to the LTIP scheme. Further information on this scheme is given in the Remuneration Committee Report.
25. Financial instruments 
The disclosures below should be read in conjunction with note 27, where related information has been disclosed in relation to the Group’s 
insurance companies.
Fair values of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities
Details of the accounting policies and methods adopted (including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the bases for 
recognition of income and expenses) for each class of ﬁnancial asset, ﬁnancial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 1.
Financial assets and liabilities at 31 December were as follows:
Group Company
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) 46,763 48,970 123,085 113,957
Cash and cash equivalents 47,758 43,476 555 1,155
94,521 92,446 123,640 115,112
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 19,049 17,640 89,243 73,560
Tax liabilities 237 484 – –
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 1,261 1,551 – –
Bank overdrafts and loans 40,765 43,870 32,198 34,352
Client funds 35,213 32,098 – –
Retirement beneﬁt obligation 31,594 34,782 – –
Provisions 665 930 – –
Deferred consideration 14,304 16,390 – –
143,088 147,745 121,441 107,912
Included within ﬁnancial assets and liabilities is a £146,000 credit (2011: £210,000 charge) relating to options and forward foreign exchange 
contracts.
Financial risk management objectives
The Group’s central treasury function secures and controls debt ﬁnancing, coordinates efﬁcient cash management within the business and 
monitors and manages ﬁnancial risks relating to the operations of the Group. Treasury’s objective is to deploy ﬁnancial resources around 
the Group in the most efﬁcient manner possible, ensuring that cash is available in the right place and currency at the right time to pay 
liabilities as they fall due. Long-term, annual, monthly, weekly and daily forecasts form the basis for treasury decisions.
Financial risks comprise market risks such as currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risks and are inﬂuenced by ﬂuctuating 
changes in market prices, as well as credit and liquidity risks.
The Group seeks to minimise the effects of these risks by using derivative ﬁnancial instruments to hedge risk exposures. The use of 
ﬁnancial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the board of directors, which establish principles on currency risk, 
interest rate risk and the use of ﬁnancial derivatives and non-derivative ﬁnancial instruments. Compliance with these policies is reviewed by 
the Group’s internal auditors. 
The Group does not enter into or trade ﬁnancial instruments, including derivative ﬁnancial instruments, for speculative purposes. Fair values 
are determined directly by reference to published price quotations in an active market. 
The treasury function reports regularly to the Group’s Finance Committee.  Charles Taylor plc
77
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
25. Financial instruments continued
Valuation techniques and assumptions applied for the purposes of measuring fair value
The fair values of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities are determined as follows:
 The fair values of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are 
determined with reference to quoted market prices.
 The fair values of other ﬁnancial assets and liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) are determined in accordance with generally 
accepted pricing models based on discounted cash ﬂow analysis.
 The fair values of derivative instruments are calculated using quoted prices.
Foreign currency forward and option contracts are measured using quoted spot and forward exchange rates matching maturities of the 
contracts. Except for bank loans, the book value of other non-derivative ﬁnancial assets and liabilities approximate their fair value.
Currency risk
The Group has signiﬁcant overseas subsidiaries which operate mainly in North America, Bermuda and the Asia Paciﬁc region and whose 
revenues and expenses are denominated mainly in foreign currencies. Hence, exposures to exchange rate ﬂuctuations arise. Exchange 
rate exposures are managed within approved policy parameters utilising forward foreign exchange and options contacts.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date are 
as follows:
Assets 
At 31 December
Liabilities 
At 31 December
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
Group
US$ 18,066 14,590 15,034 11,039
Other 23,708 23,722 9,623 9,128
41,774 38,312 24,657 20,167
Company
US$ – – 2,433 3,685
Other 555 1,153 1,650 4,893
555 1,153 4,083 8,578
The following table details the Group’s forward foreign currency contracts outstanding at the year end:
Currency value Contract value Fair value
2012  
Local ’000
2011  
Local ’000
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
Sell US$ 
Less than 3 months 2,327 1,594 1,500 1,000 60 (11)
3 to 6 months 2,352 2,398 1,500 1,500 45 (26)
6 to 9 months 4,000 2,411 2,500 1,500 23 (32)
9 to 12 months – 804 – 500 – 26
8,679 7,207 5,500 4,500 128 (43)
Buy Singapore$
Less than 3 months 999 966 500 500 6 (13)
3 to 6 months 979 961 500 500 (4) (14)
6 to 9 months 981 – 500 – (3) 4
9 to 12 months – – – – – –
2,959 1,927 1,500 1,000 (1) (23)
Sell Canadian$
Less than 3 months 474 – 300 – 5 –
3 to 6 months 472 798 300 500 7 (3)
6 to 9 months 474 – 300 – 7 –
9 to 12 months – – – 500 – 3
1,420 798 900 1,000 19 –
The average strike price rates achieved for the above trades are US$ 1.5780, Singapore$ 1.9731 and Canadian$ 1.5782. Charles Taylor plc
78
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
25. Financial instruments continued
The policy of the Group permits the use of foreign currency option contracts for a proportion of its foreign currency liquidity risk to protect 
against a weakening of the US$ against £sterling. There were no options open at 31 December 2012 or at 31 December 2011.
Currency sensitivity
As the Group is mainly exposed to the US$, the following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 10% increase in the value of £sterling 
against the US$. 10% represents management’s assessment of a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates, although this 
cannot be predicted with certainty. The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and 
adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in US$ rates. A negative number below indicates a decrease in proﬁt or equity 
where the US$ weakens 10% against £sterling. For a 10% strengthening of the US$ against £sterling, there would be an equal and 
opposite impact on proﬁt and equity, and the signs below would be reversed.
Year to 31 December
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
Impact on proﬁt before tax 243 176
Impact on equity (276) (364)
The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated into £sterling using the average rate of exchange for the year. A 10% weakening 
of the US$ average rate for the year has been assumed in the sensitivity analysis and the impact is shown in the table below:
Year to 31 December
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
Proﬁt before tax (373) (424)
Non-sterling currencies of primary importance to the Group moved as follows in the year:
2012  
Year end
2011  
Year end
%  
Change
2012 
Average
2011  
Average
%  
Change
Impact 
on 2012 
operating 
proﬁt  
£000
US$ 1.625 1.560 4.2 1.591 1.604 (0.8) 37 Charles Taylor plc
79
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
25. Financial instruments continued
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as entities in the Group borrow funds at both ﬁxed and ﬂoating interest rates. The Group entered 
into ﬁve-year interest rate swaps in February 2009 which ﬁx three-month sterling LIBOR at 2.96% and cover the term loan under the senior 
facilities agreement, on an amortising basis. The amount hedged at 31 December 2012 was £13.0m. The Group’s hedging activity is 
planned in order to protect interest expense and take account of market forecasts of future rate changes.
The following tables detail the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts outstanding as at the reporting 
date:
Average contract  
ﬁxed interest rate
Notional principal  
value Fair value
2012 
%
2011  
%
2012 
£000
2011  
£000
2012 
£000
2011  
£000
Outstanding Contracts – received ﬂoating pay ﬁxed 2.96 2.96 13,000 16,000 (346) (547)
Less than 1 year 3,000 3,000
between 1 to 2 years 10,000 3,000
between 2 to 5 years – 10,000
The interest rate swaps settle on a quarterly basis. The ﬂoating rate on the interest rate swaps is three months LIBOR. The Group will settle 
the difference between the ﬁxed and ﬂoating interest rate on a net basis.
All interest rate swap contracts exchanging ﬂoating rate interest amounts are designated as cash ﬂow hedges to reduce the Group’s cash 
ﬂow exposure resulting from variable interest rates on borrowings. The interest rate swaps and the interest payments on the loan occur 
simultaneously and the amount accumulated in equity is reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss over the period that the ﬂoating rate interest payments 
on debt affect proﬁt or loss.
The interest rate risk proﬁle of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 December, taking account of the interest rate swaps described 
above, was as follows:
2012 2011
Group
Floating rate 
 £000
Fixed rate 
£000
Non-interest 
bearing 
£000
Total  
£000
Floating rate 
£000
Fixed rate 
£000
Non-interest 
bearing  
£000
Total  
£000
Financial assets
£sterling 29,568 – 23,179 52,747 30,258 – 23,875 54,133
US$ 10,016 – 8,050 18,066 5,690 – 8,900 14,590
Other 8,174 – 15,534 23,708 7,528 – 16,195 23,723
47,758 – 46,763 94,521 43,476 – 48,970 92,446
Financial liabilities
£sterling 44,291 14,365 59,775 118,431 46,221 17,988 63,369 127,578
US$ 10,975 – 3,925 14,900 6,578 – 4,461 11,039
Other 7,555 53 2,149 9,757 6,658 74 2,396 9,128
62,821 14,418 65,849 143,088 59,457 18,062 70,226 147,745
2012 2011
Company
Floating rate 
 £000
Fixed rate 
£000
Non-interest 
bearing 
£000
Total  
£000
Floating rate 
£000
Fixed rate 
£000
Non-interest 
bearing  
£000
Total  
£000
Financial assets
£sterling – – 123,085 123,085 2 – 113,957 113,959
US$ –––– ––––
Other 555 – – 555 1,153 – – 1,153
555 – 123,085 123,640 1,155 – 113,957 115,112
Financial liabilities
£sterling 17,852 14,146 85,360 117,358 14,387 18,153 66,794 99,334
US$ 1,008 – 1,425 2,433 1,087 – 2,598 3,685
Other 330 – 1,320 1,650 2,847 – 2,046 4,893
19,190 14,146 88,105 121,441 18,321 18,153 71,438 107,912 Charles Taylor plc
80
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
25. Financial instruments continued
Interest rate sensitivity
For ﬂoating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding 
for the whole year and is net of the notional value of the interest rate cap. An increase in interest rates by a factor of 10% is used and 
represents management’s assessment of a reasonably possible change in interest rates, although this cannot be predicted with certainty.
If interest rates had been increased by a factor of 10% and all other variables had been held constant, the Group’s proﬁt for the year to 
31 December 2012 would have decreased by £48,000 (2011: decreased £37,000). This is mainly attributable to the Group’s exposure  
to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings, after taking into account the Group’s interest rate swap.
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are:
 to safeguard the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns to shareholders and beneﬁts 
for other stakeholders;
 to maximise the return to shareholders commensurate with a level of risk in each of its various businesses that management considers 
acceptable; and
 to ensure the Group’s regulated businesses comply with requirements set by regulators in the various jurisdictions in which the Group 
operates.
The Group takes account of risk when considering decisions involving the allocation of capital. Changes are made to the capital structure  
as economic conditions and the perception of risk changes. Changes may be made by way of altering the amount of dividends payable to 
shareholders, issuing shares or altering the level of the Group’s indebtedness e.g. by taking out or reﬁnancing loan facilities. The Group 
monitors capital by reference to the level of net debt (see note 20) relative to equity (see Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on 
page 50). 
The Group has a number of insurance company and investment management subsidiaries subject to capital requirements imposed by their 
respective regulatory authorities. Management and boards of regulated companies have processes in place to ensure that minimum capital 
requirements are properly calculated, regularly monitored and maintained at an appropriate level. The Group complied with externally 
imposed capital requirements during the year. Bestpark International Limited has a lower level of capital than would normally be required by 
the regulator concerned, however, the Group is under no obligation to contribute additional capital and does not intend to do so.
Other price risk
Changes in equity prices affect the ﬁnancial assets of the Group’s life insurance companies, but have no material economic impact on the 
Group, as explained in note 27 . The Group has no material exposures to commodity price risk, prepayment risk or residual value risk.
Credit risk 
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations, resulting in ﬁnancial loss to the Group.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative ﬁnancial instruments is regarded as acceptable because the counterparties are banks with 
high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies. However, the Group has kept its counterparties under close review 
because of recent solvency and liquidity problems in the banking sector and remains alert to potential risks.
The Group has no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk relating to its clients. Credit policies, processes and management resources are 
designed to address and limit risk. It is not possible to measure when trade debtors in the Adjusting Services business become past due 
because of the role played by insurance brokers in collecting fees and the subscription nature of much of the market. Credit periods are 
monitored for each ofﬁce in the Adjusting Services business and debtor ageing is monitored for each client and individual invoice. There 
are no material trade debtors outside the Adjusting Services business. The Group’s exposure to credit risk is best represented by the value 
of trade and other receivables disclosed in note 18. No collateral is held as security for amounts due and no other credit enhancements are 
in place. The credit quality of trade and other receivables is overall believed to be good and commensurate with the normal commercial 
risks of business-to-business trading.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk of being unable to meet current and future payment obligations either as they fall due or in the full amount due. The 
funding risk arises when the necessary liquidity cannot be obtained on the expected terms when required.
The ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the board of directors, which monitors the Group’s short, medium and 
long-term funding and liquidity requirements. The relevant procedures are implemented by the treasury function.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate banking facilities, subject to covenant compliance and reserve borrowing 
facilities, by monitoring forecast cash ﬂows and by matching the maturity proﬁles of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities. Charles Taylor plc
81
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
25. Financial instruments continued
Maturity of ﬁnancial liabilities
The maturity of the Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 December was as shown below:
2012 2011
<1 year  
£000
1–2 years 
£000
2–5 years 
£000
>5 years  
£000
Total  
£000
<1 year  
£000
1–2 
years  
£000
2–5 
years  
£000
>5 years  
£000
Total  
£000
Group
Trade and other payables 19,049 – – – 19,049 17,640 – – – 17,640
Tax liabilities 237 – – – 237 484 – – – 484
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 675 675 (89) – 1,261 723 723 105 – 1,551
Bank overdrafts and loans 20,683 19,701 381 – 40,765 20,547 2,675 20,648 – 43,870
Client funds 35,213 – – – 35,213 32,098 – – – 32,098
Retirement beneﬁt obligation 2,143 2,143 6,429 20,879 31,594 2,040 2,040 6,120 24,582 34,782
Provisions 665 – – – 665 930 – – – 930
Deferred consideration 5,288 1,999 2,651 4,366 14,304 2,000 3,331 6,451 4,608 16,390
83,953 24,518 9,372 25,245 143,088 76,462 8,769 33,324 29,190 147,745
2012 2011
<1 year  
£000
1–2 years 
£000
2–5 years 
£000
>5 years  
£000
Total  
£000
<1 year  
£000
1–2 
years  
£000
2–5 
years  
£000
>5 years  
£000
Total  
£000
Company
Trade and other payables 89,243 – – – 89,243 73,560––– 73,560
Bank overdrafts and loans 12,270 2,929 16,999 – 32,198 11,411 2,454 20,487 – 34,352
101,513 2,929 16,999 – 121,441 84,971 2,454 20,487 – 107,912
Sterling denominated bank borrowings and overdrafts bear interest at LIBOR and bank base rate respectively. US$ denominated 
borrowings bear interest at rates based on the US Prime Rate.
The Group has various undrawn committed borrowing facilities. The facilities available at 31 December in respect of which all conditions 
precedent had been met were as follows:
At 31 December
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
Expiring in one year or less 5,505 5,760
The Group has a senior facilities agreement with the Royal Bank of Scotland and HSBC for a ﬁve-year term, which expires on 30 May 2014. 
The facilities comprise a £25.0m term loan with scheduled repayments of £750,000 per quarter and a revolving credit facility of £12.0m. 
£10.0m of the revolving credit facility had been drawn at 31 December 2012 and the term loan balance outstanding was £13.0m. The 
Group also has £10.0m committed overdraft facilities in the UK as well as £6.3m committed overseas facilities. The senior facilities are 
subject to a variety of undertakings and covenants, including target ratios for interest cover (EBITDA: interest), leverage (debt: EBITDA) and 
cash cover (cash ﬂow: debt repayments, interest and dividends).
26. Operating leases
Year to 31 December
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
Lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 4,539 4,366
At 31 December, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases 
which fall due as follows:
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
Within one year 4,092 3,591
In the second to ﬁfth years inclusive 10,388 10,556
After ﬁve years 8,847 10,731
23,327 24,878 Charles Taylor plc
82
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
27. Insurance company disclosures
The directors believe the Group’s exposure to material adverse risk from the valuation of the assets or liabilities of the Group’s insurance 
companies is limited. This is because the acquisition cost in each case comprised of either a nominal or refundable upfront payment 
followed by deferred consideration based on future cash distributions by the insurance companies, or the former owners being entitled to 
the majority of such distributions by the way of non-controlling interests in the companies’ shares. The Group’s net investment in insurance 
companies is summarised on page 84. 
There is no material risk to the Group arising from the investment portfolios held by the life insurance business as the majority of 
policyholder liabilities are directly linked to the value of investments held.
Although there is some uncertainty over the ability of the non-life insurance company, Bestpark International Limited, to pay all its future liabilities, 
and consequently a possibility that the company may become insolvent, the directors believe that there would be no material disadvantage to the 
Group in that event. The Group is under no obligation to contribute further capital and does not intend to do so. A prospective reduction in net 
assets will only have a limited effect on the Group for the reason set out above and also because the Group has reduced its shareholding in the 
company from 100% to 50.01% since it was acquired.
The directors believe that there is no material risk to the Group due to variations in the timing or value of insurance claims, or the 
reinsurance protection thereon, concentration of risk, interest rate risk, currency risk or credit risk arising out of the acquired insurance 
companies for the reasons stated above. Insolvency of any of the owned insurance companies may impact future service revenue and may 
result in an impairment of goodwill. 
Further details of the amounts included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements in respect of the Group’s insurance companies are 
disclosed below to assist readers in understanding their impact on the consolidated income statement and balance sheet. 
Consolidated income statement for group insurance companies
Year to 31 December 2012 Year to 31 December 2011
Non-life 
business 
£000
Life 
business 
£000
Total  
£000
Non-life 
business 
£000
Life  
business 
£000
Total  
£000
Gross premiums written 442 1,085 1,527 124 1,110 1,234
Outward reinsurance premiums (283) (891) (1,174) (343) (919) (1,262)
Net written premiums 159 194 353 (219) 191 (28)
Change in the gross provision  
for unearned premiums 1,930 – 1,930 2,331 – 2,331
Change in the provision for  
unearned premiums, reinsurers’ share (840) – (840) (1,048) – (1,048)
1,090 – 1,090 1,283 – 1,283
Fees from investment contracts – 3,797 3,797 410 1,767 2,177
Fees from insurance contracts – 138 138 – 156 156
– 3,935 3,935 410 1,923 2,333
Total revenue 1,249 4,129 5,378 1,474 2,114 3,588
Other gains/(losses) from insurance activities 834 18,998 19,832 (870) (3,595) (4,465)
Claims paid, gross amount (6,298) (25,138) (31,436) (13,867) (1,848) (15,715)
Claims paid reinsurers’ share 379 2,388 2,767 663 1,815 2,478
(5,919) (22,750) (28,669) (13,204) (33) (13,237)
Change in provision for claims, gross amount 3,534 6,178 9,712 15,007 5,845 20,852
Change in provision for claims, reinsurers’ share 1,149 (783) 366 418 (1,896) (1,478)
4,683 5,395 10,078 15,425 3,949 19,374
Claims incurred, net of reinsurance (1,236) (17,355) (18,591) 2,221 3,916 6,137
Net operating expenses (2,370) (3,284) (5,654) (3,352) (2,024) (5,376)
Net result (1,523) 2,488 965 (527) 411 (116)
The ﬁnancial assets shown in the table below and falling within the scope of IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures have, where 
indicated, been classiﬁed as at fair value through proﬁt and loss (and are designated as such upon initial recognition), available for sale or 
other. There are no ﬁnancial liabilities shown in the table below which are within the scope of IFRS7 and which have been classiﬁed as at 
fair value through proﬁt or loss or measured at amortised cost. Charles Taylor plc
83
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
27. Insurance company disclosures continued
Investments at fair value through income and available for sale investments are categorised as Level 1 within the IFRS7 fair value hierarchy 
because their values are derived from quoted prices in active markets. Valuation techniques and assumptions applied for the purposes of 
measuring fair values are described in note 25.
Amounts described as debtors arising from insurance and reinsurance operations are technically past due. Amounts shown have been 
reduced for estimated impairment losses where applicable. Financial liabilities within the scope of IFRS7 shown in the table below.
Consolidated balance sheet for group insurance companies
At 31 December
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
Investments at fair value through income
– Life insurance contracts 15,809 13,240
– Investment contracts assets held to back unit-linked liabilities 263,116 235,854
Investments available for sale
– Non-life insurance contracts 3,205 3,462
282,130 252,556
Amounts receivable under reinsurance contracts 6,195 6,275
Cash and cash equivalents in insurance businesses 58,494 78,753
Debtors arising from insurance and reinsurance operations 1,778 4,421
Deferred acquisition costs 394 1,036
Amounts due from group companies 7,725 5,278
Other assets 336 414
Total assets in insurance businesses before eliminations 357,052 348,733
Elimination of amounts due from group companies (7,725) (5,278)
Total assets in insurance businesses 349,327 343,455
Insurance technical balances
– Life insurance contracts 16,169 13,240
– Non-life insurance contracts 29,938 35,941
Investment contracts unit-linked liabilities 263,070 235,854
Creditors arising from insurance and reinsurance operations 1,391 1,717
Deferred reinsurance commissions 151 433
Provisions 1,109 526
Amounts owed to group companies 329 2,501
Other creditors 1,048 3,002
Total liabilities in insurance businesses before eliminations 313,205 293,214
Elimination of amounts owed to group companies (329) (2,501)
Total liabilities in insurance businesses 312,876 290,713
Net assets in insurance businesses 36,451 52,742
Investments held by group insurance companies
At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011
Non-life 
investments 
£000
Life 
insurance 
contracts 
investments 
£000
Life 
investment 
contracts 
investments 
£000
Total  
£000
Non-life 
investments 
£000
Life  
insurance 
contracts 
investments 
£000
 Life 
investment 
contracts 
investments 
£000
Total  
£000
Corporate and government securities 3,205 – 15,521 18,726 3,462 – 17,502 20,964
Unit trusts – – 227,478 227,478 – – 188,649 188,649
Unlisted investments – – 1,633 1,633 – – 1,700 1,700
Cash and cash deposits to back  
unit-linked liabilities – 465 17,046 17,511 – 363 26,223 26,586
With proﬁts investments held with 
insurance companies – 15,344 – 15,344 – 12,877 – 12,877
Other – – 1,438 1,438 – – 1,780 1,780
3,205 15,809 263,116 282,130 3,462 13,240 235,854 252,556
Other cash and cash equivalents in 
insurance businesses 54,720 3,774 – 58,494 74,321 4,432 – 78,753 Charles Taylor plc
84
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
27. Insurance company disclosures continued
Investment contract assets are held to back unit-linked liabilities. Any increase or decrease in their value is matched by an increase or 
decrease or the associated liability to policyholders. 
Group net investment in insurance companies
At 31 December
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
Total assets in insurance businesses 349,327 343,455
Total liabilities in insurance businesses (312,876) (290,713)
Deferred consideration payable to former shareholders (14,304) (16,390)
Other intangible assets future proﬁts – life 3,314 3,559
Other intangible assets discount of liabilities – non-life 147 387
Run-off cost provision (140) (352)
25,468 39,946
Non-controlling interests (21,067) (35,374)
4,401 4,572
28. Notes to the Cash Flow Statements
Group  
Year to 31 December
Company  
Year to 31 December
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
Operating proﬁt 8,821 8,499 (730) (681)
Adjustments for: 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,066 1,929 – –
Amortisation of intangibles 2,495 3,374 – –
Other non-cash items 1,223 533 546 –
Decrease in provisions (2,594) (2,722) – –
Share of results of associates and joint ventures (42) (123) – –
Operating cash ﬂows before movements in working capital 11,969 11,490 (184) (681)
Decrease/(increase) in receivables 1,643 (159) (8,936) (15,086)
Increase in payables 1,773 1,446 16,046 7,870
Decrease in insurance company assets 45,272 41,391 – –
Decrease in insurance company liabilities (40,345) (40,735) – –
Cash generated by operations 20,312 13,433 6,926 (7,897)
Contributed by:
– Professional Services 14,143 12,324 7,934 8,902
– Insurers in Run-off 6,169 1,109 (1,008) (1,005)
Cash generated by operations 20,312 13,433 6,926 (7,897)
Income taxes paid (1,602) (1,604) – –
Interest paid (1,597) (1,760) (1,236) (1,359)
Dividends from other group companies – – 161 8,130
Net cash before movement in client funds 17,113 10,069 5,851 (1,126)
Movement in client funds 3,115 (4,600) – –
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 20,228 5,469 5,851 (1,126)
Additions to tangible ﬁxed assets during the period amounting to £561,000 (2011: £903,000) were ﬁnanced by new ﬁnance leases.
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet) comprise cash at bank and 
other short-term highly-liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less. Cash includes client funds of £35.2m (2011: £32.1m). Charles Taylor plc
85
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
29. Retirement beneﬁt schemes
Certain employees of the Group are members of one of the four deﬁned beneﬁt schemes operated by the Group, details of which are set 
out below. The assets of all these pension schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds. The deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes 
are subject to triennial valuations by independent, professionally qualiﬁed actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.  
The results of the last review for each scheme are as follows:
 
Charles Taylor  
& Co. Limited 
Retirement 
Beneﬁts Scheme 
Wm. Elmslie 
& Sons 1972 
Pension & Life 
Assurance Fund
 
E R Lindley  
& Co. Limited 
Pension Plan
 
Richards Hogg 
Pension & Life 
Assurance 
Scheme
The last valuation was carried out as at 1 July 2010 1 Jan 2009 1 July 2008 1 May 2009
Market value of scheme at last valuation was £39,339,000 £3,422,000 £3,548,900 £12,611,000
Percentage coverage of actuarial value to  
beneﬁts accrued to members 71% 171% 97% 64%
The following actuarial assumptions were applied: Investment returns
– Post-retirement 5.4% 5.4% 6.0%
1
5.8%
– Pre-retirement 5.4% 5.4% 4.7% 6.8%
Salary growth 3.1% 5.1% 3.0% 3.0%
Employer ongoing contribution rates for 2011 as percentage of  
pensionable earnings (excluding deﬁcit funding contributions) 21.0% Nil 17.4% 18.7%
1  4.7% for current pensioners paid from the fund.
The employer’s contribution rates over the average remaining service lives of the members of each scheme take account of the surplus/
deﬁcit disclosed by the above valuations. The total expense recognised in the income statement during the year in respect of the above 
deﬁned beneﬁt schemes amounted to £1,438,000 (2011: £920,000).
The total expense recognised in the income statement in respect of deﬁned contribution schemes amounted to £5,591,000  
(2011: £4,250,000).
The deﬁned beneﬁt schemes are all closed to new entrants, but existing members continue to accrue beneﬁts in all schemes except the 
Charles Taylor & Co scheme, which was closed to future accrual from 1 July 2011. The service cost in respect of existing members 
(expressed as an annual percentage of pensionable payroll) may therefore be expected to increase in successive years as a result of the 
schemes’ ageing membership.
International Accounting Standard 19 Employee Beneﬁts
The calculations used for IAS 19 disclosures have been based on the most recent actuarial valuations and updated by the Group’s 
actuaries to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 in order to assess the liabilities of the Pension Plans at 31 December 2012. Plan 
assets for the four schemes are stated at their market value at 31 December 2012.
Similar ﬁnancial assumptions have been used for each of the four schemes to calculate scheme liabilities under IAS 19, as below. Note that 
the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) measure of inﬂation has been applied where the rules of the schemes permit.
At 31 December
2012  
%
2011  
%
2010  
%
Rate of increase in salaries 2.80 3.00 3.30
Rate of increase of pensions in payment
– RPI
 – max 5% 3.00 3.00 3.30
 – max 2.5% 2.50 2.50 2.50
 – min 3%, max 5% 3.00 3.00 3.30
– CPI
 – max 5% 2.05 2.25 2.80
 – max 2.5% 2.05 2.25 2.80
Discount rate 4.50 4.70 5.40
Inﬂation assumption
– RPI 2.80 3.00 3.30
– CPI 2.05 2.25 2.80 Charles Taylor plc
86
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
29. Retirement beneﬁt schemes continued
Combined scheme assets
At 31 December
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
2010  
£000
Equities 26,167 24,208 25,582
Gilts 5,013 8,821 6,024
Bonds 24,695 14,591 20,190
Hedge fund 5,234 10,943 4,465
Property 74 66 963
Cash 5,234 332 827
Group Pension Contracts 7,298 7,362 7,614
Total market value of assets 73,715 66,323 65,665
Amount recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the Group’s retirement beneﬁt obligations
At 31 December
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
2010  
£000
Total market value of assets as shown above 73,715 66,323 65,665
Actuarial value of liability (103,613) (99,251) (88,282)
Effect of paragraph 58(b) limit (1,500) (1,671) (1,737)
Overseas retirement beneﬁt obligation (196) (183) (167)
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet (31,594) (34,782) (24,521)
Related deferred tax asset 7,271 8,695 6,617
Pension liability net of related deferred tax asset (24,323) (26,087) (17,904)
The plan assets do not include any of the Group’s own ﬁnancial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by the 
Group. For the Charles Taylor & Co Limited Retirement Beneﬁts Scheme and the Richards Hogg Pension & Life Assurance Scheme, the 
expected return reﬂects the long-term asset allocation of the Trustees. For the Charles Taylor & Co Limited Retirement Beneﬁts Scheme, 
the composite expected return is derived from FTSE-Actuaries Gilt indices and from indices published by Merrill Lynch as at the 
measurement date. For the Richards Hogg Pension & Life Assurance Scheme, the Trustees’ investment consultants have provided a 
best-estimate return assumption based on market conditions as at the measurement date. The ER Lindley & Co Ltd Pension Plan and the 
Wm. Elmslie & Sons 1972 Pension & Life Assurance Fund are both invested in insurance contracts. The expected return assumption is 
based on the asset mix underlying the insurance contracts and market conditions as at the measurement date.
Amounts recognised in proﬁt or loss in respect of the deﬁned beneﬁt plans
Year to 31 December
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
Current service cost 158 463
Expected return on pension scheme assets (3,348) (3,874)
Interest on pension obligation 4,628 4,618
Gain on curtailments and settlements – (287)
1,438 920
The charge for the year is included in administrative expenses in the income statement. The actual return on plan assets was 9.5%  
(2011: 0.8%).  Charles Taylor plc
87
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
29. Retirement beneﬁt schemes continued
Analysis of amount recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Year to 31 December
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
Actual return less expected return on assets 2,939 (3,355)
Experience gains and losses on liabilities 780 (3,159)
Changes in assumptions (3,040) (6,070)
Actuarial proﬁt/(loss) recognised 679 (12,584)
Adjustment due to surplus cap 171 66
Net gain/(loss) recognised – before tax 850 (12,518)
Movement in deferred tax (1,428) 2,074
Net loss recognised (578) (10,444)
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the other comprehensive income is £22.7m (2011: £23.8m).
Change in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation
Year to 31 December
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
Opening deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 99,251 88,282
Service cost 158 463
Interest cost 4,628 4,618
Experience and assumption losses 2,052 8,996
Member contributions 52 143
Beneﬁts paid (2,528) (2,964)
Gain on curtailments and settlements – (287)
Closing deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 103,613 99,251
Change in the fair value of plan assets
Year to 31 December
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
Opening fair value of plan assets 66,323 65,665
Expected return 3,348 3,874
Experience gains 2,939 (3,355)
Contributions by employer 3,581 2,960
Member contributions 52 143
Beneﬁts paid (2,528) (2,964)
Closing fair value of plan assets 73,715 66,323
History of experience gains and losses
Year to 31 December
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
2010  
£000
2009  
£000
2008  
£000
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 103,613 99,251 88,282 79,115 70,740
Scheme assets 73,715 66,323 65,665 57,955 48,823
Deﬁcit 29,898 32,928 22,617 21,160 21,917
Experience gains and losses on scheme assets 2,939 (3,355) 3,487 5,029 (11,642)
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities 780 (3,159) (1,772) 202 (515) Charles Taylor plc
88
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
29. Retirement beneﬁt schemes continued
Mortality assumptions
Investigations have been carried out within the past three years into the mortality experience of the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt schemes.
These investigations concluded that the current mortality assumptions include sufﬁcient allowance for future improvements in mortality 
rates. The assumed life expectations on retirement at age 65 are:
2012  
years
2011  
years
2010
years
Retiring today:
 Males 22.1 22.0 21.9
 Females 24.4 24.3 24.2
Retiring in 20 years:
 Males 23.3 23.2 23.2
 Females 25.5 25.4 25.3
Sensitivity analysis 
The key assumptions used in the IAS 19 valuation are detailed above. The sensitivities regarding these assumptions are shown below.
Assumption Change in assumption Indicative effect on the scheme’s liabilities
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.25% Decrease/increase by 4%
Longevity Increase by one year Increase by 3%
Inﬂation rate Increase/decrease by 0.25% Increase/decrease by 1%
The Group expects to contribute approximately £3.7m to its deﬁned beneﬁt plans in 2013.
30. Related party transactions
Balances and transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation 
and are not disclosed in this note. 
Transactions with the associate undertaking including amounts due from and owed to the undertaking are disclosed in notes 16, 18 
and 19. Transactions and balances with the Charles Taylor Employee Share Ownership Trust are shown in the note below the Consolidated 
Statement of Changes in Equity.
The remuneration of directors and other key management are disclosed in the Remuneration Committee Report and in note 5. Certain 
employees of the Group are members of one of the four deﬁned beneﬁt schemes operated by the Group, of which details are given in note 
29.
31. Principal subsidiaries
The subsidiaries listed below are included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
The main trading activities, except where noted below, are the provision of specialist insurance management services to mutual 
associations and captive insurance companies, claims consulting and average adjusting, third-party claims administration, risk assessment 
services, insurance and insurance support services. The principal place of business is the same as the place of incorporation/
establishment unless otherwise indicated.
Subsidiary Activities
Principal place  
of business
Place of 
incorporation/
establishment
Percentage of 
equity share 
capital
Charles Taylor Adjusting (Australia) Pty Ltd Australia 100
Charles Taylor Consulting (Australia) Pty Ltd Holding company Australia 100
Charles Taylor & Co. (Bermuda) Bermuda 100
Charles Taylor (Bermuda) Ltd Holding company UK Bermuda 100
Charles Taylor Consulting (Hamilton) Bermuda 100
Charles Taylor (Hamilton) Ltd Holding company UK Bermuda 100
CTC Insurance Management (Bermuda) Limited Bermuda 100
FM Intermediaries Limited Bermuda 100
Lansdowne Insurance Company Limited Bermuda 100
Wyndham Insurance Company (SAC) Limited Bermuda 100
Charles Taylor Consulting (Canada) Inc Canada 100
Charles Taylor S.A.S. Colombia 100
Charles Taylor Consulting Services France srl France 100 Charles Taylor plc
89
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Statements
31. Principal subsidiaries continued
Subsidiary Activities
Principal place  
of business
Place of 
incorporation/
establishment
Percentage of 
equity share 
capital
Axiom Broker Services Ltd Great Britain 100
Axiom Holdings Limited Holding company Great Britain 100
Bestpark International Limited Great Britain 50
Cardrow Insurance Limited Great Britain 99
Charles Taylor & Co. Limited Great Britain 100
Charles Taylor Adjusting Limited Great Britain 100
Charles Taylor Administration Services Limited Great Britain 100
Charles Taylor Aviation (Asset Management) Limited Great Britain 100
Charles Taylor Holdings Limited
1
Holding company Great Britain 100
Charles Taylor Insurance Services Limited Great Britain 100
Charles Taylor Investment Management Company Limited Great Britain 100
Charles Taylor Overseas Limited Holding company Great Britain 100
Charles Taylor Services Limited Great Britain 100
LAD Aviation Limited
1
Holding company Great Britain 100
LCL Acquisitions Limited Holding company Great Britain 100
LCL Group Limited Holding company Great Britain 100
Metrowise Limited Holding company Great Britain 100
Resolve International Limited
1
Holding company Great Britain 100
Richards Hogg Overseas Limited Holding company Great Britain 100
Taylor Risk Solutions Ltd Holding company Great Britain 100
The Richards Hogg Lindley Group Limited
1
Holding company Great Britain 100
Richards Hogg Holdings Limited Holding company Hong Kong 100
Richards Hogg Lindley (Hellas) Ltd Greece Hong Kong 100
Richards Hogg Lindley (India) Ltd India Hong Kong 100
PT Radita Hutama Internusa Indonesia 77.5
Beech Hill Insurance Limited Ireland 100
LCL Services (Ireland) Ltd Ireland 100
LCL International Life Assurance Company Limited Isle of Man 100
Alico Isle of Man Limited Isle of Man 100
Global  Life Assurance Limited Isle of Man 100
LCL Services (IoM) Limited Isle of Man 100
Charles Taylor Consulting (Japan) Limited Japan 100
CTC Services (Malaysia) SDN Bhd Malaysia 100
CTC Mexico SA de CV Mexico 100
Charles Taylor Holdings BV Holding company Netherlands 100
Charles Taylor Adjusting Qatar Ltd Qatar 49
Charles Taylor Mutual Management (Asia) Pte. Limited Singapore 100
Overseas Adjusters and Surveyors Co Taiwan 85
Charles Taylor P&I Management (Americas) Inc USA 100
CTC Americas Inc Holding company USA 100
LAD (Aviation) Inc USA 100
RJA Ltd USA 100
Signal Administration Inc USA 100
Associate undertakings Activities
Principal place  
of business
Place of 
incorporation/
establishment
Percentage of 
equity share 
capital
Korhi Average Adjusters Limited South Korea 30
1  Direct holdings
All holdings are indirect, except where indicated.
32. Non-recurring costs
In the prior year, the Group incurred costs of a non-recurring nature, in relation to the change of Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and in relation to 
the disposal of its entire 50% interest in Crescendo Holdings Limited, an engineering consultancy joint venture.
33. Capital commitments
There were no capital commitments at 31 December 2012 (2011: none).
34. Contingent liabilities
There are no material contingent liabilities requiring disclosure. Charles Taylor plc
90
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Five Year Record
Year to 31 December
2008 
£000
2009 
£000
2010 
£000
2011 
£000
2012 
£000
Consolidated income statement
Revenue 80,842 96,604 99,127 102,459 108,203
Operating proﬁt before amortisation of goodwill and gain on bargain 
purchases 10,064 18,189 14,071 8,499 8,821
Gain on bargain purchases 1,992 – 543 – –
Amounts written off goodwill (586) (523) – – –
Operating proﬁt 11,470 17,666 14,614 8,499 8,821
Net other charges (1,545) (1,938) (2,133) (2,120) (1,745)
Proﬁt before tax 9,925 15,728 12,481 6,379 7,076
Income tax expense (1,302) (3,839) (1,898) (1,813) (1,702)
Proﬁt for the year 8,623 11,889 10,583 4,566 5,374
Customer relationships amortisation 461 1,631 2,090 1,805 1,282
Life insurance VOBA charge/(credit) 577 (577) – – –
Amounts written off goodwill 586 523 – – –
Non-recurring costs 1,871 2,415 – 1,027 –
Adjusted proﬁt for the year 12,118 15,881 12,673 7,398 6,656
Attributable to non-controlling interests (661) (4,276) (3,849) 557 1,163
Attributable to owners of the Company 11,457 11,605 8,824 7,955 7,819
Earnings and dividends
Earnings per ordinary share  – statutory basic 19.9p 19.0p 16.8p 12.8p 16.3p
 – adjusted 28.7p 29.0p 22.0p 19.9p 19.4p
Dividends per ordinary share 13.9p 14.6p 10.0p 10.0p 10.0p
Cover for ordinary dividends (adjusted) 2.1x 2.0x 2.2x 2.0x 1.9x
At 31 December
2008 
£000
2009 
£000
2010 
£000
2011 
£000
2012 
£000
Consolidated balance sheet
Non-current assets 59,501 73,170 71,144 67,455 64,230
Net current assets 61,556 75,688 73,208 75,567 54,324
Non-current liabilities and provisions (52,599) (75,649) (66,912) (74,253) (61,943)
Net assets 68,458 73,209 77,440 68,769 56,611
Share capital and share premium 30,298 30,298 31,038 31,038 31,038
Capital and merger reserves 7,534 7,534 7,534 7,534 7,534
Proﬁt and loss account 2,975 3,530 2,432 (6,340) (3,684)
Own shares (310) (310) (310) – (385)
Non-controlling interests 27,961 32,157 36,746 36,537 22,108
Total equity 68,458 73,209 77,440 68,769 56,611
This Annual Report and Accounts contains certain forward-looking statements. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks 
and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the future. Actual results may differ 
from those expressed in such statements, depending on a variety of factors, including demand and pricing; operational problems; general 
economic conditions; political stability and economic growth in relevant areas of the world; changes in laws and governmental regulations; 
exchange rate ﬂuctuations and other changes in business conditions; the actions of competitors and other factors. Charles Taylor plc
91
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Other Information
Shareholder Information
Analysis of shareholdings
The tables below show an analysis of ordinary shareholdings as at 31 December 2012.
Holder Percentage Members Percentage
Individuals 5,627,82413.9%52260.5%
Nominee companies 28,920,060 71.7% 314 36.4%
Bank or other corporations 5,799,721 14.4% 26 3.1%
40,347,605 100.0% 862 100.0%
Number of shares held: 
1 to 5,000 849,067 2.1% 553 64.1%
5,001 to 10,000 762,343 1.9% 102 11.9%
10,001 to 50,000 2,863,426 7.1% 125 14.5%
50,001 to 250,000 5,676,324 14.1% 48 5.6%
250,001 to 1,000,000 13,513,370 33.5% 26 3.0%
1,000,001 to 5,000,000 16,683,075 41.3% 8 0.9%
40,347,605 100.0% 862 100.0%
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 2 May 2013.
Shareholder enquiries
The Company’s Registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC. Enquiries relating to the following administrative matters should be 
addressed to the Company’s Registrar: Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ. 
Tel: 0870 889 4020.
 Dividend reinvestment plan.
 Dividend payment enquiries.
 Dividend mandate instructions. Dividends may be paid directly into your bank or building society account on completion of a mandate 
instruction form. Tax vouchers are sent to the shareholder’s registered address.
 Loss of share certiﬁcates/dividend warrants/tax vouchers.
 Notiﬁcation of change of address.
 Transfer of shares to another person.
 Amalgamation of accounts. If you receive more than one copy of the annual report, you may wish to amalgamate your accounts on the 
share register.
Internet and telephone share dealing service
www.computershare.com/sharedealingcentre
Tel: 0870 703 0084
Investor centre
As a part of our commitment to improve shareholder communications we offer a free and secure website, managed by our registrar 
Computershare Investor Services PLC. Managing your shares online means you can access information quickly, securely and minimise 
postal communications.
To register visit www.investorcentre.co.uk – all you will need is your registered address details and your Shareholder Reference Number 
which you will ﬁnd on your certiﬁcate/tax vouchers.
You will be given instant access to:
 View portfolio balances and the market value of all your holdings registered with Computershare
 Update your address
 Register to receive electronic shareholder communications
 Download forms
Computershare will also send a unique activation code to your registered address, which you can use to:
 Update your bank details
 View and manage your dividend payments
 Access your electronic tax vouchers
 View your holding’s transactional history
For other enquiries relating to shareholder services or general enquiries about the Company, please contact: The Company Secretarial 
Department, Charles Taylor plc, Standard House, 12–13 Essex Street, London WC2R 3AA. Tel. 020 3320 8888. Charles Taylor plc
92
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Share price information
The Company’s share price appears in various UK national newspapers including the Daily Telegraph and The Independent under  
“General Financial” and appears on various ﬁnancial websites under the sector “Financial Services” and code CTR.
Dividends and tax on dividends
Dividend information can be found in the Directors’ Report on page 40.
Non-taxpayers may be able to claim back from HMRC some or all of the tax paid by the Company on their cash dividend payments.  
The dividend tax voucher will be required when making a claim.
Unsolicited mail
As the Company’s share register is, by law, open to public inspection, shareholders may receive unsolicited mail from organisations
that use it as a mailing list. To limit the amount of unsolicited mail you receive, write to the Mailing Preference Service, MPS Freepost  
LON 20771, London, W1E 0ZT or visit the website at www.mpsonline.org.uk/mpsr.
Financial Diary
Annual General Meeting
2 May 2013
Interim results announcement
30 August 2013
Final dividend for 2012
Ex-dividend 10 April 2013
Record date 12 April 2013
Payment due 24 May 2013
Interim dividend for 2013
Ex-dividend 16 October 2013
Record date 18 October 2013
Payment date 29 November 2013
Shareholder Information continued Charles Taylor plc
93
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Other Information
Charles Taylor Offices
Further information about Charles Taylor can be found on our website at www.ctplc.com, or by contacting one of our ofﬁces on the 
telephone numbers listed below.
           Telephone No 
Head Ofﬁce London Standard House (+44) 20 3320 8888
  
Australia Brisbane (+61) 7 3839 9999
  Melbourne (+61) 3 9653 9594
  Perth (+61) 8 9321 2022
  Sydney (+61) 2 9025 3532
Belgium  Brussels (+32) 54 319 872
Bermuda  Hamilton (Mutual management) (+1) 441 292 3103
  Hamilton (Captive management) (+1) 441 295 8495
Canada  Calgary (+1) 403 266 3336
  Halifax (+1) 902 835 7600
  St. John’s (+1) 709 726 7750
  Toronto (+1) 416 640 6022
  Vancouver (+1) 604 566 9907
China Beijing (+86) 1350 116 9022
  Hong Kong (+852) 2527 3202
  Shanghai (+86) 21 5835 2756
Colombia Bogota (+57) 1 746 0106
France Paris (+33) 153 430 030
Greece Piraeus (P&I) (+30) 210 429 0733
  Piraeus (Adjusting) (+30) 210 429 1300
India  Mumbai (+91) 22 2283 5851
Indonesia  Balikpapan (+62) 542 7213 794
  Jakarta (+62) 21 515 2084
  Surabaya (+62) 31 827 3240
Republic of Ireland  Dublin (+353) 16 766 634
Isle of Man  Douglas (+44) 1624 683 699
Italy  Turin (+39) 346 727 1122
Japan  Tokyo (+81) 3 5297 4700
Republic of Korea  Seoul (+82) 2 752 1891
Malaysia  Selangor (+60) 3 7781 2260
Mexico  Mexico City (+52) 55 3000 1880
Qatar Doha (+974) 4436 8254
Singapore  Singapore (P&I) (+65) 6506 2896
  Singapore (Aviation) (+65) 6506 2894
  Singapore (Energy) (+65) 6506 2891
  Singapore (Marine) (+65) 6506 2897
Switzerland Geneva (+41) 22 369 0066
Taiwan  Taipei (+886) 2 2706 6509 Charles Taylor plc
94
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
United Arab Emirates  Dubai (+971) 4 335 6490
United Kingdom  Aberdeen (+44) 1343 850 465
  Glasgow (+44) 141 221 2992
  Liverpool (+44) 151 227 2175
  London Standard House (+44) 20 3320 8888
  London Leadenhall Street (+44) 20 7623 1819
  London Portsoken Street (+44) 20 7767 2700
  Ringwood, Hampshire (+44) 1425 480 333
United States of America Dallas, TX (Signal) (+1) 972 770 1480
  Dallas, TX (Risk consulting) (+1) 972 447 2055 
  Dallas, TX (Aviation) (+1) 972 447 2050
  Houston, TX  (+1) 713 840 1642
  Long Beach, CA (+1) 562 437 8100
  Miami, FL  (+1) 954 447 9840
  New York, NY (P&I) (+1) 212 809 8085
  New York, NY (Adjusting) (+1) 212 809 8082
  Ronkonkoma, NY  (+1) 631 285 6934
  San Francisco (+1) 415 233 1121
  Wilton, CT  (+1) 203 761 6060
 
Charles Taylor Offices continued Charles Taylor plc
95
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Other Information
Notes Charles Taylor plc
96
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes  Charles Taylor plc
Standard House
12–13 Essex Street
London WC2R 3AA
T : +44 20 3320 8888
F: +44 20 3320 8800
E: headoffice@ctplc.com
www.ctplc.com
