 Chemring Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chemring Group PLC
Chemring House, 1500 Parkway, Whiteley, 
Fareham, Hampshire PO15 7AF, United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1489 881880
Fax: +44 (0)1489 881123
www.chemring.co.uk
Chemring Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Energetic growth Delivering global protection Find out more online
For more information about Chemring Group PLC, please visit  
www.chemring.co.uk where you can access the latest 
shareholder information:
• Current share price
• Key financial information
• Financial calendar
• Shareholder services and notices
• Corporate governance
• RSS news feeds
• Results and presentations
• Analysts’ forecasts
• Regulatory news
Chemring Group PLC’s Annual Report and Accounts 2009 can 
also be viewed online at www.chemring.co.uk/investors in a 
choice of formats:
• Fully-functional micro-site
• Downloadable PDF 
You can also view and download the Notice for our 
Annual General Meeting.
© Chemring Group PLC 2010
The information in this document is the property of Chemring Group PLC and may not be copied or communicated to a third party 
or used for any purpose other than that for which it is supplied without the express written consent of Chemring Group PLC. 
This information is given in good faith based upon the latest information available to Chemring Group PLC; no warranty or 
representation is given concerning such information, which must not be taken as establishing any contractual or other commitment 
binding upon Chemring Group PLC or any of its subsidiary or associated companies.
Printed on FSC certified Chorus Lux Silk; a paper bleached using a chlorine free process. 100% of the inks 
used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of 
any waste associated with this production will be recycled. The printer is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral® 
Company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001.
A world-leading defence company
Chemring is a global group that specialises in the 
manufacture of energetic material products and 
countermeasures. We provide solutions for highly 
demanding customer requirements in defence, 
security and safety markets. We are a world-leading 
defence company involved in advanced development 
programmes in the UK, USA, Europe and Australia.
Our existing businesses provide strong organic 
growth and we are continuing our acquisition strategy 
in the fast-growing energetics sector.
NIITEK won orders worth over $120m
NIITEK had an excellent year, 
successfully delivering its first contract 
for 30 Husky Mounted Detection Systems 
(HMDS) in September 2009 to the 
US Army and subsequently receiving 
a follow-on contract for a further 50 
systems. With over 30 HMDS units now 
deployed on counter-IED operations, 
NIITEK has made an impressive 
contribution to the Group.
For more information see page 16
Strong growth at Simmel Difesa
Simmel Difesa had another excellent year, 
delivering over £50 million of pyrotechnic 
products. This was an increase of 96% 
on the previous year, and included 70% 
growth in the supply of 81mm illuminating 
rounds to our UK customers. Orders for 
a further €42 million have been received 
this year, and underpin production of our 
81mm pyrotechnic mortar rounds until 
the end of 2011.
For more information see page 18
Acquisition of Hi-Shear
In September, we announced the 
acquisition of Hi-Shear, which 
will enhance our capability in the space 
sector as the sole qualified supplier of 
initiators to NASA. It also adds a position 
in the US ballistic missile defence 
market, as the sole supplier of key 
components for the PAC-3 missile. 
The acquisition was completed in 
November 2009.
For more information see page 18
Highlights
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
97
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Other information
Glossary of terms
BES Battlefield effects simulation 
CAD/PADs  Cartridge-actuated and propellant-actuated devices
EOD Explosive ordnance disposal
ESAF Electronic safe/arm fuze 
GPR Ground penetrating radar
HE High explosive
HEDP High explosive dual purpose
HMDS Husky Mounted Detection System 
HMX High melting explosive 
IDIQ Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity
IED Improvised explosive device
IM Insensitive munitions
IR Infra-red
JSF Joint Strike Fighter
LAP Load, assemble and pack
MANPADs Man-portable air defence systems
MTV Magnesium teflon viton
NAMSA NATO Maintenance and Supply Agency
NASA National Aeronautics and Space Administration
NLAW Next Generation Light Anti-Tank Weapon
OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PAAMS Principal Anti-Air Missile System
PAC-3 Patriot Advanced Capability 3
PEMBS Portable explosive minefield breaching systems
RDX Research department explosive
RF Radio frequency
ROV Remotely operated vehicle
UK MoD United Kingdom Ministry of Defence
US DoD United States Department of Defense
UXO Unexploded ordnance Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
1
Business overview Other information Financial statements Corporate governance
2009 Financial highlights
Total revenue 
£503.9m 
 
+42%
2009
2008
2007
2006
£354.2m
£254.7m
£187.7m
£503.9m
Underlying profit before tax*
£102.6m
 
+38%
2009
2008
2007
2006
£74.2m
£53.2m
£32.5m
£102.6m
Operating cash flow 
£106.7m
 
+27%
2009
2008
2007
2006
£83.7m
£60.6m
£45.6m
£106.7m
Underlying basic earnings per ordinary share
213p
* 
+33%
2009
2008
2007
2006
160p
112p
72p
213p
Profit before tax
£95.8m
 
+66%
2009
2008
2007
2006
£57.7m
£49.8m
£31.8m
£95.8m
*  Before goodwill adjustment arising from recognition of tax losses, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and gain/(loss) on fair value movements on 
derivatives of £6.8 million (2008: £16.5 million)
Contents
Business overview
Chemring at a glance 2
Statement by the Chairman 4
Review by the Chief Executive 6
Our strategy 10
International reach 12
Market sectors
• Pyrotechnics 14
• Explosive ordnance disposal (EOD) 16
• Munitions 18
• Countermeasures 20
Review by the Finance Director 22
Key performance indicators  26
Principal risks and uncertainties 27
Corporate Responsibility Review 30
Corporate governance
Directors and professional advisors 34
Directors’ Report 36 
Directors’ Remuneration Report 39
Statement on Corporate Governance  48
Independent Auditors’ Report to the 
Members of Chemring Group PLC 52
Financial statements
Consolidated Income Statement 53
Consolidated Statement of   
Recognised Income and Expense 54
Consolidated Balance Sheet 55
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 56
Notes to the Consolidated   
Cash Flow Statement  57
Notes to the Group   
Financial Statements 58
Independent Auditors’ Report on the   
Parent Company Financial Statements 87
Parent Company Balance Sheet   
(under UK GAAP) 88
Parent Company Statement of   
Total Recognised Gains and Losses  89
Notes to the Parent Company   
Financial Statements 90
Other information
Glossary of terms 97 Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
2
Chemring at a glance
Energetics
Pyrotechnics
Chemring is a leading developer and 
manufacturer of aerospace, military 
and marine pyrotechnics to meet the 
demanding requirements of prime 
contractors, defence forces and 
commercial operators all over the world.
• Growing demand for mortar 
illumination rounds
• Largest supplier of pyromechanisms 
for aircraft egress systems
• Significant supplier of training products 
to the US Army and other NATO forces
• Growing provider of products for 
satellite-launched space exploration
Business revenue
£173.2m
Proportion of 
Group revenue
34%
For more information see page 14
Munitions
Chemring offers a unique capability 
in supplying energetic materials 
components and complete rounds, 
based on our advanced technologies in 
energetic materials, warheads, rocket 
motors and proximity fuzing.
• Market leader in naval ammunition
• Provider of warheads for   
PAAMS system
• Manufacturer of NLAW   
rocket motors
• Leader in materials development 
for insensitive munitions
Business revenue
£86.0m
Proportion of 
Group revenue
17%
For more information see page 18
Explosive ordnance disposal (EOD)
Chemring is an industry-leading designer 
and manufacturer of high reliability 
detonators, initiators and disrupters for 
demolition and EOD. We are also a leading 
developer of robot and vehicle-mounted 
mine detection systems.
• Leader in IED neutralisation equipment 
and consumables
• Leader in anti-IED 
technology development
• Innovative vehicle mounted anti-mine 
ground penetrating radar system
• New safer demolition stores developed 
and undergoing qualification
Business revenue
£61.2m
Proportion of 
Group revenue
12%
For more information see page 16
Chemring operates in four 
market sectors: Pyrotechnics, 
Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD), 
Munitions and Countermeasures. 
All are technically demanding 
requiring high reliability and integrity, 
and the highest level of safety in 
manufacture and use. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
3
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Business unit locations
Pyrotechnics
EOD
Munitions
Countermeasures
Countermeasures
Chemring is the world leader in the 
design, development and manufacture of 
advanced expendable countermeasures 
and countermeasure suites for 
protecting air, sea and land platforms 
against guided missile threats.
• Over 50% world market share
• Largest supplier of airborne 
decoy countermeasures to the 
US Department of Defense and the 
UK Ministry of Defence
• Technology leader in spectral, 
special material and thrusted flares 
for fixed-wing and rotary aircraft
• Customers in 35 countries
Divisional revenue
£183.5m
Proportion of 
Group revenue
37%
For more information see page 20
The Energetics sector 
is now sub‑divided 
Our Energetics 
sector consists of 
Pyrotechnics, EOD 
and Munitions
Group revenue by sector (£m)
2009 2008 2007 2006
£157.5m
£196.7m
£126.5m
£128.2m
£118.4m
£69.3m
£183.5m
£320.4m
2009 2008
Energetics
Countermeasures Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
4
Statement by the Chairman
During 2009 three significant landmarks were reached: 
Group revenue exceeded £500 million, underlying profit 
before tax* exceeded £100 million and our market 
capitalisation increased to over £1 billion.
Highlights
•  Revenue up 42% to £503.9 million
•  Underlying operating profit* from 
continuing operations up 20% to 
£101.9 million
•  Underlying operating profit* from new 
acquisitions: £12.8 million
•  Underlying profit before tax* 
up 38% to £102.6 million
•  Underlying earnings per share* 
up 33% at 213p
•  Basic earnings per share up 62% at 199p
Key information
Underlying profit before tax*
£102.6m
+38%
Underlying earnings per share*
213p
+33%
Dividend per ordinary share
50p
+43%
*  Before goodwill adjustment arising from 
recognition of tax losses, intangible amortisation 
arising from business combinations and  
gain/(loss) on fair value movements on 
derivatives of £6.8 million (2008: £16.5 million).
It is very satisfactory to report another 
year of substantial growth in earnings, 
combined with excellent cash generation 
and a strong balance sheet. During 2009, 
three significant landmarks were reached:  
Group revenue exceeded £500 million, 
underlying profit before tax* exceeded 
£100 million and our market capitalisation 
increased to over £1 billion. All three are 
major achievements that highlight the 
growing stature of the Group. 
The Group generated an underlying profit 
before tax* of £102.6 million, an increase 
of 38% on the previous year. The Board 
recognises the very significant growth in 
earnings over recent years and is, therefore, 
recommending a final dividend of 36p. 
This gives a total dividend for the year of 
50p, an increase of 43% over last year.
The order intake for the Group increased by 
55% to a new annual record of £627.6 million, 
and we finished the 2009 financial year 
with an order book of £559.0 million, 37% 
higher than last year. This provides a strong 
foundation for further growth in 2010.
I am delighted to report that all of our 
recent acquisitions have performed well. 
Two of these acquisitions, in particular, 
delivered outstanding performances 
during 2009. Simmel Difesa, which we 
acquired in 2007, had another excellent 
year, generating a further 54% growth 
in annual revenue. NIITEK, which we 
acquired in December 2008, was also a 
star performer, generating £45.6 million of 
revenue in just ten months of ownership. 
NIITEK is the world’s leading manufacturer 
of vehicle-mounted mine detection 
systems, and its products are gaining 
considerable momentum in Afghanistan, 
where its technology is at the forefront of 
protecting the US military from the threat 
of improvised explosive devices (IEDs).
In November 2009, we completed the 
acquisition of Hi-Shear Technology 
Corporation, a leading manufacturer of 
high reliability energetic products for use 
in key US space and defence programmes, 
including satellites, missile defence and 
aircrew egress. The business will enhance 
our position in the space sector, and offers 
us an entry into the important market for 
ballistic missile defence.
In the last twelve months, we have 
reorganised our operational structure 
into three geographical divisions - Europe, 
USA and International. The International 
division will drive our expansion outside 
Europe and the USA. In addition, we 
have consolidated the corporate and 
management structure within these divisions 
into strong product-focused groupings 
in Countermeasures and Energetics, in 
order to enhance the capabilities offered 
to our military customers. As a further 
development, significant strengthening of 
our sales and marketing functions, in terms 
of both the seniority and number of staff, 
has taken place across all of the businesses.
Balance sheet, cash flow and debt
The Board has always been aware of the 
requirements to retain a strong balance 
sheet, avoid excessive borrowing, generate 
solid operational cash flow, and structure a 
debt repayment profile that would ensure 
that the Group’s growth objectives could 
be achieved, within reason, unhindered 
by financial limitations. This has been 
successfully achieved in the past, and the 
recent issue of $280 million of new fixed 
interest loan notes repayable between 
2016 and 2019, similar to the issue made 
in November 2007, will maintain this policy.
Group strategy
The Board reviews the Group’s strategy 
on a continuing basis, and once a year 
formally meets to discuss, in some detail, 
the next five years, considering all the main 
factors as far as can be determined which 
may impact beneficially, or otherwise, on 
Group performance. Whilst it is not our 
intention to produce a financial plan for five 
years, inevitably the impact of the Board’s 
deliberations is subject to a financial 
evaluation. The recent annual exercise 
would suggest that we should be able to 
maintain our current highly successful 
growth strategy. 
Board of directors
It was announced to shareholders in the 
November 2009 Interim Management 
Statement that as I have been your Chairman 
for twelve years and am now in my seventy 
second year, provision should commence for 
my ultimate succession.  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
5
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Although the Group is regularly presented 
with many opportunities for acquisitions, 
we continue to be very selective and have 
refused to bid the asking price or match 
a competing offer in situations where the 
quality of earnings, the earnings multiple 
and minimal asset backing suggest that the 
return on investment or the risk-reward 
ratio could not be justified. Shareholders 
can rest assured that the Board will 
continue with this policy.
Shareholders inevitably will wish to know the 
Board’s views on two major topics – the war 
in Afghanistan and future defence budgets. 
The Board believes that substantial forces will 
be required in Afghanistan for many years 
to come. The US and UK defence budgets 
appear to be under threat and this will have 
an impact on the global defence market. 
However, the Board believes that the majority 
of our niche markets will be unaffected and 
our strategy for growth remains unchanged. 
With our wide spread of customers, products 
and capabilities, and our considerable 
abilities to respond rapidly to the military’s 
requirements, I am very confident of our 
continuing long term success. Our proven 
strategy, the strength of our order book, 
the impact of our enlarged sales force, the 
contribution from our latest acquisitions, and 
our secure financial fundamentals should 
ensure that the Group will continue in 2010 
with the progress of the last decade. 
K C Scobie
Chairman
19 January 2010
That process is now under way and will 
provide for the new appointee to join 
the Board for a period of familiarisation 
prior to assuming the Chairmanship. 
Shareholders will obviously be advised 
as further progress is made.
During the year, The Rt Hon Lord Freeman 
and Mr Evans were both re-appointed 
as non-executive directors for a further 
three year term. In 2010, Air Marshal 
Sir Peter Norriss and Mr Much will reach 
the end of their second three year terms 
as non-executive directors. It would be my 
intention to recommend to the Board that 
their current appointments be extended until 
the new incumbent has arrived, to assist in a 
smooth transfer of responsibilities.
In this era of enormously enhanced 
corporate governance, the responsibilities 
and time commitment of non-executive 
directors serving on the various Board 
committees has increased significantly, 
and I would like to thank them for the 
diligence with which they have fulfilled 
such obligations, in particular the Chairs of 
the Audit and Remuneration Committees – 
The Rt Hon Lord Freeman and Mr Much.
Staff and employees
For a group with revenue of over 
£500 million, it is surprising that we 
employ only 3,349 people. I welcome 
to the Group all those who have joined 
in the last twelve months, either to take 
up employment or through being part of 
an acquired business. I hope that you will 
have long and rewarding careers with us. 
We have had another very successful year 
which is testament to everyone’s dedication 
and hard work. The Board would like to 
thank all employees for their efforts in the 
knowledge that these will continue and will 
result in a successful 2010.
Pensions
The Group maintains a policy of trying to 
ensure, through one mechanism or another 
in all countries, that it contributes to schemes 
for all employees who wish to make provision 
for their retirement. In the UK, our defined 
benefit pension scheme remains open to 
existing members for future accrual, and 
to new employees at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee. However, the 
proposed penal changes to the taxation of UK 
occupational pension schemes will mean that 
continuing to participate in such schemes will 
be financially disadvantageous for our senior 
management, and this may well mean further 
changes to our UK pension arrangements.
The triennial actuarial valuation for the UK 
defined benefit scheme is currently being 
progressed. Any deficit on the scheme which 
is agreed at the end of this process is unlikely 
to be significant to the Group.
Dividends
For many years the Group has maintained a 
policy of increasing dividends commensurate 
with the rise in the Group’s profitability. 
At the half year, with underlying profits* 
up approximately 40%, the Group paid 
an interim dividend of 14p (2008: 10p), 
maintaining this relationship. Although the 
Group has announced underlying earnings* 
growth of 33% for the full year, the Board 
is recommending a final dividend for 2009 
of 36p, giving a total for the year of 50p. 
As the dividend is still covered 4.3 times by 
underlying after tax earnings* and with a solid 
balance sheet and cash flow, it is believed that 
the Group is well positioned to increase the 
return to shareholders. Shareholders should 
not assume, however, that this is a change 
in our dividend policy. In the last five years, 
the total dividend per share has increased 
over fivefold from 9p to 50p. 
Prospects
In the last decade shareholders have 
received a substantial total return, with 
earnings per share growing from 14p in 
1999 to 213p in 2009, the dividend per 
share increasing from 5.5p to 50p over the 
same period, and the market value of the 
Group’s shares rising dramatically from just 
under £2 to in excess of £29. This has been 
achieved through a clearly defined policy 
of organic growth, a focused programme of 
acquisitions, well-executed post-acquisition 
integration, and subsequent investment 
in product and facilities to deliver further 
expansion. The Board believes that there is 
ample opportunity to continue this policy in 
Europe, the USA and other countries around 
the world, where joint ventures or new 
start-ups could be the preferred option. Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
6
Review by the Chief Executive
The Group continued to perform strongly throughout the 
year with revenue from continued operations increasing 
substantially by 42% to a record £503.9 million.
Group results
The Group continued to perform 
strongly throughout the year, in spite 
of concerns about reduced spending on 
defence following the global credit crisis. 
Revenue from continuing operations 
increased substantially by 42% to a record 
£503.9 million. Almost half of this growth 
was achieved by our existing businesses, just 
under a quarter from the full year trading of 
acquisitions made in 2008, and the balance 
from the NIITEK acquisition, which was 
completed in 2009. The Group’s business 
continues to be second half weighted, with 
£270.4 million of revenue (54%) generated 
in the second six months of the year.
The Group’s order intake during the year 
increased by 55% to a new record of 
£627.6 million. Our Energetics division 
received orders valued at £345.9 million, 
39% higher than last year. This reflects 
the strong growth in orders in our 
explosive ordnance disposal (EOD) and 
munitions business segments, as a result 
of the growing success of our NIITEK and 
Simmel Difesa businesses respectively. 
Our Countermeasures division achieved an 
order intake of £281.7 million, 81% higher 
than last year, reflecting strong order capture 
performances from both Alloy Surfaces 
and Kilgore in the USA. At the year end, 
the order book for the Group had reached 
£559.0 million, an increase of 37% on the 
previous year end, and this provides a solid 
foundation for further growth in the future.
Our Energetics division had another 
excellent year, achieving a 63% increase in 
revenue to a record level of £320.4 million, 
in spite of numerous delays in the receipt of 
orders caused by the budgetary constraints 
of some of our customers. Simmel Difesa, 
our Italian subsidiary, had an outstanding 
year, increasing its revenue by 54%, driven 
by demand from NATO forces for 81mm 
illumination mortar rounds to support 
peacekeeping operations. Our most recent 
US acquisition, NIITEK, also had an excellent 
year, successfully delivering its first contract 
for thirty Husky Mounted Detection Systems 
(HMDS) in September 2009 to the US Army 
and subsequently receiving a follow-on 
contract for a further fifty systems. 
With over thirty HMDS units now deployed 
on counter-IED operations, NIITEK has made 
an impressive contribution to the Group.
Our Countermeasures division also 
performed well, achieving a 17% increase 
in revenue to £183.5 million, in spite of the 
substantial delays in placement of contracts 
by the US Department of Defense that has 
particularly affected Kilgore. Strong growth 
was, however, achieved at our UK subsidiary, 
Chemring Countermeasures, driven by 
demand from NATO forces operating in 
Afghanistan and the growing requirement 
for flares for the Typhoon, in line with the 
continued build-up of aircraft deliveries to 
European and Middle Eastern nations.
Underlying operating margins* for the 
Group were 23%. This was slightly lower 
than last year’s 24% but this variation 
really only reflects the increased proportion 
(63%) of revenue contributed by the 
Energetics division, which generally has 
lower levels of margins. Operating margins 
in the Energetics division remained 
steady at 23%, whilst those in the 
Countermeasures division remained at 
29%. Overall underlying operating profit* 
rose by 35% to £114.7 million. We remain 
confident that this performance should be 
sustainable into the future.
The operating cash inflow during the year 
was very good at £106.7 million, equivalent 
to a cash conversion rate of 93% from 
underlying operating profit*. Our operating 
cash inflow in the second half was 
particularly strong, with an equivalent cash 
conversion of 110%.
Health and safety
The Board recognises that the health 
and safety of the Group’s employees is 
an important priority. We believe that 
all injuries are preventable, and we have 
adopted a long term strategy to ensure 
that the Group continually improves its 
performance and reduces risk.
During the year, we continued with our 
implementation of formal management 
systems across the Group, and fourteen out 
of seventeen of our sites have now been 
validated as compliant with the health and 
safety management system OHSAS18001. 
Operational highlights
•  Excellent contribution from 
NIITEK following its acquisition in 
December 2008
• Continued strong growth at Simmel
•  Record production at Chemring 
Countermeasures and Alloy Surfaces
•  Commencement of building of 
new production facilities in the UK 
and Australia
•  Acquisition of Hi-Shear completed in 
November 2009
Key information
Year end order book
£559.0m
+37%
Revenue
£503.9m
+42%
Number of employees
3,349
+1%
*  Before goodwill adjustment arising from 
recognition of tax losses, intangible amortisation 
arising from business combinations and  
gain/(loss) on fair value movements on 
derivatives of £6.8 million (2008: £16.5 million). Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
7
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Our lost time incident rate (calculated 
using the US OSHA rules) showed a modest 
improvement from 1.20 to 1.13 incidents per 
100 employees. Six of our sites reported 
no lost work days in the year, which is an 
excellent achievement. Whilst we take 
all incidents seriously, we pay particular 
attention to those where employees are 
hurt due to an energetic event. We did 
have, unfortunately, four lost time events 
following unexpected initiations during the 
year; two at Chemring Energetic Devices in 
the USA, and one each at Chemring Defence 
in Germany and Chemring Australia. 
These events were fully investigated and 
engineering controls implemented to 
prevent re-occurrence.
Revenue analysis
Our Countermeasures division grew its 
revenue by 17% to £183.5 million, and 
represents the largest business segment 
at 37% of the total Group revenue. 
Revenue from the pyrotechnics businesses 
increased by 81% to £173.2 million, and 
this now represents our second largest 
business segment at 34% of the total Group 
revenue. The high growth in this business 
was generated by sales of illumination 
mortar rounds and 40mm pyrotechnic 
rounds, as well as signal and screening 
grenades used by infantry. The second area 
of high growth was in our EOD business 
segment, which increased its revenue by 
304% to £61.2 million, principally due to 
the rapid expansion of NIITEK as its HMDS 
counter-IED product entered production. 
Revenue in the munitions segment, 
on the other hand, remained constant 
at £86.0 million, with a number of US 
programmes suffering from delayed order 
intake and extended entry into production.
Revenue from sales to US customers 
increased by 66% during the year to 
£235.4 million, which represents 47% of 
the total Group revenue. This aligns closely 
with one of our core strategies to maintain 
about half of our business focused on the 
world’s largest defence market. Revenue 
from UK customers also increased by 45% 
to £125.2 million, and now contributes 25% 
of the total Group revenue. 
Revenue from sales to other European 
countries also increased to £75.0 million 
during the year, bringing the total 
proportion of revenue from sales to NATO 
countries to 87%, a slight increase on 
last year. Sales to Middle East countries 
did, however, decline to £20.4 million, as 
several multi-year supply contracts came 
to an end early in the year and follow-on 
contracts were delayed due to extended 
national budget timetables. Finally, sales 
to Australia and the Far East increased 
substantially (72%) to £39.1 million, 
reflecting the first year of deliveries under 
the new long term framework agreement 
with the Australian Government.
Research and development
Our strategy for future growth is 
dependent on maintaining technology 
leadership and rapidly developing key 
products to displace our competitors. 
Technology research, product development 
and the capability of our engineering teams 
are all vital components in achieving this 
goal. Our total expenditure more than 
doubled to £18.9 million during the year, 
although this still only represents 3.8% of 
the total Group revenue. Internally-funded 
research and development increased by 
56% to £9.2 million, more accurately 
reflecting the strategic emphasis we place 
on product innovation.
The largest proportion of our 
internal funding remains targeted on 
maintaining technology leadership in the 
countermeasures market, with development 
programmes for new covert decoys, 
improved spectral and kinematic flare 
types, and a number of 130mm naval decoy 
rounds. The largest proportion of customer 
funded investment is at NIITEK, which 
continues to receive substantial research 
funding from the US Department of Defense 
for a wide range of technologies associated 
with their vehicle-mounted HMDS products 
and their robot-mounted equivalents. 
We continue to place considerable emphasis 
on our partnerships with academic 
institutions. Our long term partnership with 
Cranfield University is making good progress 
with seventeen targeted programmes, and 
has achieved early success in a number of 
promising areas. We have also established 
several collaborative programmes in the 
USA, although we have been unable to find 
a single academic establishment to cover 
the full range of our technical interests.
Capital investment
Capital investment during the year grew 
12% to £38.2 million, with substantial 
investment in new production facilities to 
support both our Countermeasures and 
Energetics businesses. The two largest 
investments are in new countermeasures 
facilities at Salisbury, UK and at Lara, 
Australia, which will provide fully automated 
flow line manufacture of the full range of 
magnesium and spectral flares. Progress, to 
date, has been good, with the two main UK 
facility buildings nearing completion. The 
design of the automation has taken longer 
than originally envisaged but both facilities 
should be completed before the end of 
2010. The total cost of the facilities will be 
around £24 million, of which £11 million has 
been incurred to date.
Expenditure on production facilities for our 
Energetics businesses has also increased, 
with significant investment in automated, 
safer facilities for the manufacture of 
primary explosives, such as lead azide, 
in both the UK and the USA. Both facilities 
will be in operation during 2010, and 
represent important strategic assets as 
they will become a vital source of supply 
for our two largest customer communities. 
We have also started construction of a new 
high explosives pressing and assembly 
plant at Ardeer in Scotland. This will provide 
the UK with an important facility for the 
manufacture of demolition stores and 
munitions with insensitive characteristics.
We are also nearing completion of the 
construction of our first demilitarisation 
plant at Anagni in Italy. This facility is 
expected to become operational in 2010, and 
will be used for the destruction and recycling 
of a wide range of munitions, including 
grenades, ammunition and missiles. Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
8
Review by the Chief Executive
continued
I would like to extend my personal thanks to all 
members of staff for their dedication and hard work 
in delivering the 2009 results. 
Staff and employees
At the end of 2009, the Group employed a 
total of 3,349 people, just 1% higher than 
the previous year end in spite of the 42% 
growth in revenue. Revenue per employee 
increased, therefore, to £150,000, 
compared to £107,000 in 2008. 54% of 
the staff are US-based and 34% are based 
in the UK, which is a higher percentage 
than the national breakdown suggested by 
our geographic revenue profile. The vast 
majority (75%) of our staff are involved in 
our manufacturing operations.
I would like to extend my personal thanks to 
all members of staff for their dedication and 
hard work in delivering the 2009 results.
Future prospects
Countermeasures
The market outlook for our expendable 
countermeasures business continues to 
be positive, although there are now clear 
indications that the rate of market growth 
is slowing. Although the US defence 
budget appears to be robust, there is 
growing evidence from the UK and other 
NATO countries that defence spending 
will be reduced over the next five years. 
This will have an impact on the timing of 
countermeasures orders, with a consequent 
reduction in the growth rate of that market. 
In Afghanistan, the US Government has 
committed to increasing the number of 
troops deployed by 30,000, which will 
take the NATO deployment above 110,000. 
The US also intends to double its troop 
transportation capability by adding a further 
two hundred and fifty helicopters. The UK 
has also announced a £900 million package 
to support operations in Afghanistan, 
including twenty two new Chinook 
helicopters, although these will only be 
delivered in 2012 at the earliest. The higher 
numbers of helicopters and aircraft 
committed to the mission will inevitably 
lead to greater demand for our products.
Over the next five years, the 
entry-into-service of the Typhoon aircraft 
will have a significant impact on the 
market. Large numbers of aircraft will start 
operations within Europe and the 
Demand for our 81mm mortar variants has 
continued to grow and we have adapted the 
payload for 60mm and 120mm mortars. 
We have received the first orders for 60mm 
variants and we expect demand for these 
products to increase.
Signalling and screening smokes are used 
regularly during operational duties and 
training exercises. There is growing interest 
in multi-spectral screen payloads, especially 
for the replacement of white phosphorous 
technology, which has a significant incendiary 
problem. Many of our customers are also 
interested in lighter smoke grenades to 
minimise the weight problem for the soldier. 
A number of important US and European 
contracts will be placed in 2010, which will 
increase production volumes in the future.
Production of 40mm pyrotechnic grenades 
for the US Army has grown significantly 
over the last few years. Chemring Ordnance 
is currently bidding for the next five years 
production. However, there is growing 
concern about the use of a pyrotechnic 
payload in 40mm training grenades 
because of the risk of creating a bush fire 
in the dry environment of many training 
grounds. Alloy Surfaces has therefore 
developed a special material product that 
matches the signature requirements and 
qualification should start in 2010.
In November 2009, the Group completed 
the acquisition of Hi-Shear Technology 
Corporation, a leading manufacturer 
of high reliability energetic devices and 
sub-systems that perform critical functions 
in key US space and defence programmes, 
including satellites, space launch vehicles, 
missile defence and aircrew egress. 
Its products include low shock pyrotechnic 
satellite separation systems, space-qualified 
initiators, electronic missile safe/arm devices 
and acoustic initiators for underwater 
explosive ordnance disposal applications. 
The acquisition of Hi-Shear significantly 
enhances our market position in the space 
sector, giving us the lead US position in 
space and satellite separation, which we 
can use to access the European satellite 
market and provide a route-to-market for our 
other energetic technologies, such as linear 
explosives for cutting and stage separation.
Middle East. Demand for our standard 
Typhoon flares is growing rapidly, and we 
have started development of spectral and 
kinematic variants to maintain our market 
leading position. During 2009, the BOL/IR 
special material decoy system was qualified 
on the Typhoon and we expect growing 
interest from other nations looking to 
use its pre-emptive capabilities.
In the USA, the introduction of the F-35 
joint strike fighter will also have a major 
impact on the countermeasures market. 
Although low rate initial production has 
been delayed until 2011, the US Government 
has committed to building five hundred and 
twelve F-35s over the next five years and will 
need to rapidly build-up a stock of decoys 
if they are to become operational. There is 
also growing interest in fitting the BOL/IR 
system to the F-18, F-15 and CV-22 aircraft, 
in order to provide pre-emptive capabilities 
and to increase mission endurance. It is 
likely that the BOL product will become our 
highest volume decoy in the future.
The order book for the Countermeasures 
division is 81% higher than last year, 
with Alloy Surfaces up 32% and Kilgore 
up 95%. Our US subsidiaries now have 
multi-year contracts for M206, M211 and 
M212 helicopter flares, MJU-50, MJU-51 and 
MJU-53 transport flares, MJU-7 and MJU-10 
combat aircraft flares, and most recently, 
for F-22 aircraft flares. Our recent delivery 
performance, our continued investment in 
leading-edge technology, and the visibility 
of our order book gives us confidence that 
the future outlook remains positive.
Energetics
Pyrotechnics
The global market for pyrotechnics is 
estimated at £1.2 billion, with growth 
remaining steady at below 10% per annum. 
The market remains fragmented with a 
large number of small players, many of 
whom are nationally focused and with 
limited product ranges. With the acquisition 
of Hi-Shear, our current market share is 
about 14%, a significant increase on last year.
There is strong interest in illuminating 
payloads for use in peacekeeping operations 
and to satisfy training requirements. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
9
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The Group has a strong order book, which at the end of the year 
stood at £559.0 million. This, combined with a healthy cash flow 
and a strong balance sheet gives the Board confidence that the 
prospects for the Group in 2010 continue to be excellent.
Explosive ordnance disposal
Our addressable global EOD market is 
estimated to be £800 million and is currently 
growing rapidly at about 20% per annum. 
The market is fragmented with most 
customers looking for tailor made solutions 
and world class technology. The constant 
evolution of the threat demands that rapid 
upgrades of our products are required, in 
order to deliver best-of-class technology and 
maintenance of a strong market position.
Our HMDS ground penetrating radar 
has been a great success in counter-IED 
operations in Afghanistan. The US Army 
is looking to place a contract in the next 
few months for another fifty plus systems 
under an urgent operational requirement. 
It would also like to fit the HMDS radar to all 
of its planned fleet of Husky mine protected 
vehicles, and is considering placing a 
competitive five year contract that will have 
a substantial value. A second new production 
facility will have to be commissioned by 
NIITEK in order to meet the production 
volumes that are likely to be required.
Many of our EOD customers are expressing 
growing interest in demolition products 
with insensitive characteristics that will 
not explode on impact from a bullet or 
in the presence of a fire. The Group is 
currently qualifying a number of such 
products for the UK Government, and 
expects orders from several of its other 
customers, when qualification has been 
successfully completed.
Munitions
The global market for munitions remains 
relatively stable at about £10 billion per 
annum and is not expected to change 
significantly over the next three years. 
The Group operates as a niche prime 
contractor, with strong market positions in 
naval ammunition and 40mm grenades.
Simmel continues to maintain its position as 
a global leader in naval ammunition, and has 
won a number of significant orders from 
Europe, South America and the Far East. 
Simmel has developed a new 76mm round 
with a multi-function microwave proximity 
fuze and an insensitive munition (IM) 
warhead. There is considerable interest in 
this round and a number of contracts are 
likely once qualification is completed in 2010.
The development of fuzing technology 
continues to be a significant priority for the 
Group. In addition to the products under 
development for our naval ammunition, 
the Group has just completed development 
of a simple mechanical fuze for US 20mm 
ammunition and a time fuze for mortar 
applications. Considerable interest has 
been shown in both these products and 
substantial contracts are expected once 
qualification has been completed.
The acquisition of Hi-Shear also provides 
us with Electronic Safe/Arm Fuze (ESAF) 
technology for ballistic missile defence 
applications. Hi-Shear manufactures the 
ESAF for the Patriot PAC-3 missile, which 
provides the short-range ballistic missile 
defence for the US and its allies. There is 
growing interest in the deployment of 
Patriot missiles by Japan, South Korea, 
Taiwan, India, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, 
Germany, Italy and Turkey. This is expected 
to provide substantial growth in the 
Hi-Shear business in the future.
Outlook
Overall, the future outlook remains 
encouraging with many excellent 
opportunities for growth. The Group has a 
strong order book, which at the end of the 
year stood at £559.0 million, up 37% on the 
previous year. This large order book, healthy 
cash flow and a strong balance sheet gives 
the Board confidence that the prospects for 
the Group in 2010 continue to be excellent.
D J Price
Chief Executive
19 January 2010 Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
10
Our strategy 
Group strategy
The Group strategy remains focused on our 
two core sectors of operations – Energetics 
and Countermeasures.
Our core strategy over the next five years 
looks for the development of excellence 
within our key three core competencies:
• Energetic materials – We will focus the 
business on products where we can exploit 
our extensive knowledge and expertise 
in explosive, pyrotechnic and pyrophoric 
materials. We will address niche, highly 
profitable markets with significant 
value-added manufacture/assembly 
where barriers to entry are strong. 
• High reliability and integrity – The nature 
of our products requires the highest 
levels of safety in manufacture and 
use, and reliability, particularly when 
their correct operation is life critical. 
Manufacturing and product safety must 
be one of our highest priorities.
• High volume manufacturing – We currently 
manufacture many of our products in 
significant quantities and have built 
up strong expertise in automated 
manufacturing. Our strategy is to 
consolidate manufacturing centres, where 
possible, to give high volumes. Expertise 
in automation and flexible manufacture 
will drive down our cost base and maintain 
competitive advantage. 
Geographic strategy
Our geographic strategy has five components:
• Maintain our US operations as 50% 
of the Group.
• Manufacture in the USA for the US market 
and in Europe for the European market. 
• Use our excellent worldwide sales 
network to export both the Group’s and 
third parties’ products to global markets 
from both Europe and the USA. 
• Establish local manufacturing facilities in 
countries where we need to do so in order 
to access certain key national markets.
• Increase our regional marketing presence 
in the Far East and the Middle East. 
Vision
Our vision is to be the leading producer 
of energetic material products and countermeasures 
for the global defence market
Pyrotechnics Explosive ordnance disposal (EOD)
Displace weak competitors
• Consolidate the market through 
acquisition
• Extend lead in niche technologies 
and applications
• Develop capability in space applications
Establish technological leadership
• Become the world leader in IED 
and unexploded ordnance (UXO) 
neutralisation
• Become a major European supplier 
of demilitarisation services
• Develop a world-leading position 
in counter-mine and counter-IED 
technologies
Munitions Countermeasures
Partner major prime contractors
• Develop position as preferred supplier 
of energetic materials to key prime 
contractors
• Develop role as niche prime contractor
• Maintain position as the world market 
leader in naval ammunition
Maintain market share 
• Grow our business in line with the market
• Exploit lead in special material, 
spectral and thrusted flares
• Invest in new fully automated 
production facilities
• Maintain lead position in all 
new platforms
Partner
major prime
contractors
Maintain
market
share
EOD
Establish
technology
leadership
Countermeasures Munitions
Displace
weak
competitors
Pyrotechnics
Comet
(Germany)
Technical 
Ordnance
(USA)
Simmel Difesa
(Italy)
Richmond EEI
(UK)
Nobel Energetics
(UK)
Leafield 
Engineering
(UK)
BDL 
Systems 
(UK)
Nobel High 
Energy Materials
(Norway)
2005 2006 2007 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
11
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Strengths and resources
The Group has core competencies in 
the design and manufacture of energetic 
materials; the development of highly 
reliable and safe products; and high 
volume manufacturing. 
Market position and reputation
The Group is the world’s leading 
manufacturer of countermeasure 
decoys, with over 50% market share. 
We are currently leading the field in 
the development and manufacture of 
advanced countermeasures.
In our growing Energetics business, we 
are an expert manufacturer of products 
containing energetic materials, and we 
are developing a prominent position in 
several niche market areas, including 
screening and illumination pyrotechnics, 
satellite separation systems, aircrew egress 
components, explosive ordnance disposal 
equipment, fuzing and naval ammunition.
Customer relationships
The Group has an extensive customer base, 
comprising governments, armed forces, 
prime contractors and OEMs across the 
globe. We have an extensive distribution 
network and our businesses currently supply 
to over eighty countries worldwide.
Manufacturing operations
The Group continues to benefit from 
efficiency improvements achieved 
through automation and rationalisation of 
manufacturing across the Group, and we 
have an ongoing investment plan for new 
plants and technologies.
Solid financial base 
The Group enjoys healthy operating 
margins across its businesses. Our focus 
on working capital management in recent 
years has manifested itself in excellent cash 
conversion and produced a sound balance 
sheet for the Group.
Management 
Management resource and expertise have 
been strengthened at all levels across 
the Group during the last four years, and 
we continue to develop our operational 
skills to ensure that we remain a world 
class manufacturer.
Acquisition strategy
Acquisitions have been an important element of the recent growth of the business. 
The successful completion of thirteen acquisitions over the last five years has contributed 
directly to the overall growth of the Group, and has broadened our capabilities.
Components of Group revenue growth 2005–2009
0
600
500
400
£ million
300
200
100
2005 Organic Acquisitive Foreign
exchange
2009
£121m
£139m
£197m
£47m £504m
2009
2008
2007
2006
Our strategy for acquisitions is to continue to target opportunities which add capability, 
technology and market access. We will exploit synergies from such acquisitions by creating 
centres of excellence, investing in new products and promoting our products though our 
worldwide channels to market.
We intend to maintain a balance of acquisition investment across pyrotechnics, EOD and 
munitions, and between Europe and the USA.
Our acquisition investments over the last five years can be analysed as follows: 
Percentage of total investment in acquisitions 2005–2009
Pyrotechnics 57%
EOD 14%
Munitions 29%
UK 15%
Europe 20%
USA 65%
Geographical spread Business activity
Acquisition timeline 2005–2009
Scot
(USA)
NIITEK
(USA)
Titan Dynamics 
Systems
(USA)
Martin 
Electronics
(USA)
Hi‑ Shear
(USA)
2008 2009 Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
12
Worldwide customers
Customer countries
International reach
Our operational structure has been expanded into three 
regional divisions: USA, Europe and International; formed 
to better meet the needs of our growing customer base in 
over 80 countries around the world. 
Delivering global protection
49% of our Group revenue is derived 
from our US operations where we are 
involved with major programmes including 
the F-22 and F-35 aircraft as well as the 
PAC-3 missile. We export from the USA 
to its natural allies including Canada, 
South America and the Middle East.
Growth potential in international markets
Chemring’s European operations serve 
their home markets and have strong 
sales networks in the Middle East, the 
Indian sub-continent and the Far East. 
Significant opportunities exist in applying 
modern technologies to legacy platforms 
in India and the new NATO countries.
Increasing productivity and safety
We aim to transfer best practices 
and replicate our state-of-the-art 
manufacturing facilities in local 
territories. Our £24 million investment 
in Salisbury, UK and Lara, Australia will 
deliver faster and safer production for 
customers in Europe and the Far East.
Regional balance International sales Advanced manufacturing Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
13
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Business by regional division
USA
Supplies US Department of Defense 
and national prime contractors.
Divisional revenue
£249.0m
Proportion of 
Group revenue
49%
•  Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc., 
Pennsylvania 
• Chemring Energetic Devices
• Scot, Inc., Illinois
• Technical Ordnance, Inc., South Dakota
• Chemring Ordnance
• Kilgore Defense, Tennessee
• Martin Electronics, Inc., Florida
• Titan Dynamics Systems, Inc., Texas
• Hi-Shear Technology Corporation, 
California*
•  Kilgore Flares Company LLC, Tennessee
•  Non-Intrusive Inspection 
Technology, Inc. (NIITEK), Virginia
*acquired after 31 October 2009 
International
Drives our expansion to countries 
outside Europe and the USA. 
Divisional revenue
£67.3m
Proportion of 
Group revenue
14%
• Chemring Australia Pty Ltd
•  Chemring Countermeasures Ltd, UK
• CIRRA SA, France (Associate company)
Europe
Markets to all NATO and non-NATO 
countries in western and eastern Europe.
Divisional revenue
£187.6m
Proportion of 
Group revenue
37%
• Chemring Defence
 • Chemring Defence Germany GmbH 
• Chemring Defence Spain S.L. 
•  Chemring Defence UK Ltd 
•  Chemring Energetics UK Ltd
• Chemring EOD Ltd, UK
• Chemring Marine Ltd, UK
• Chemring Nobel AS, Norway
• Simmel Difesa S.p.A, Italy
Our largest customers are the US Department of Defense  
and the UK Ministry of Defence but we have significant 
customers within other NATO countries and a growing 
presence in Middle Eastern and Far Eastern markets. Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
14
Pyrotechnics
Strategy
Our strategy is to become the world leader 
in pyrotechnics, through focused investment 
in new products that displace existing 
incumbents and better meet our customers’ 
requirements. We also intend to consolidate 
the market through carefully selected 
acquisitions in both Europe and the USA.
Activities during the year
Revenue from our pyrotechnics businesses 
grew by 81% year-on-year, with significant 
growth in a number of areas, driven 
primarily by our NATO customers. Our Italian 
subsidiary, Simmel Difesa, had another 
excellent year, delivering over £50 million 
of pyrotechnic products. This was an 
increase of 96% on the previous year, and 
included 70% growth in the supply of 81mm 
illuminating rounds, particularly to our UK 
customers. Orders for a further €42 million 
have been received this year, and underpin 
production of our 81mm pyrotechnic mortar 
rounds until the end of 2011.
Chemring Ordnance also had an excellent 
first year with the Group, with revenue 
from pyrotechnic products at over 
£45 million, an increase of 400% on last 
year. Over four million M228 training 
grenade fuzes were manufactured in the 
year. In September 2009, we were awarded 
a five year Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite 
Quantity (IDIQ) contract, with a maximum 
value of $107.3 million, which included a 
first production order worth $5.5 million 
for production in 2010. Production of our 
gun-fire and target-hit battlefield effect 
simulation (BES) cartridges reached a total 
of 750,000 units, an increase of 130%, 
reflecting the growing number of launchers 
installed at US Army training ranges. 
A new multi-year IDIQ contract, worth up to 
$48 million, is currently under negotiation 
with the US Army and is expected to be 
received before the end of April. There was 
also a significant increase in sales of marine 
location markers used by the US Navy, 
following a number of upgrades and 
modifications to the technical data package. 
A new modification, to generate a particular 
orange smoke, has also attracted increased 
interest from the US Coast Guard for search 
and rescue missions, and we expect to 
qualify the new product in early 2010. 
Chemring Australia increased its revenue 
from the sale of pyrotechnics by 50% during 
the year, with the restart of production 
of ASCEND signal smokes and trip flares. 
The ASCEND products are currently under 
evaluation by the US Marine Corps, and the 
initial feedback is that they perform very well. 
Chemring Defence also had a good 
year, with an increase in revenue from 
pyrotechnics of 12%. Production of 
screening smoke grenades increased in 
volume by 58%, and signals and flares 
increased by 40%, driven by increased 
demand from NATO countries involved in 
heavy peacekeeping duties and training. 
A new lightweight smoke grenade has 
recently been designed, and will start 
qualification shortly. With soldiers being 
asked to carry more and more equipment, 
the provision of a lighter, more compact 
product will be attractive to growing 
numbers of countries around the world.
Our commercial maritime business, 
Chemring Marine, had a good year with 
revenue growth of 7%, well ahead of 
inflation. Sales to the North American 
market showed strong volume growth 
during the year, aided by sales in the 
Gulf Region arising out of renewed oil rig 
business activity post Hurricane Katrina. 
Sales to the Middle and Far East were 
also strong. This was a reflection of the 
repositioning of many commercial fleets 
from European trading routes to those less 
affected by the global recession.
The demand for aircraft pyromechanisms 
is governed by the three year 
replacement cycle required to meet 
reliability and aircraft safety standards. 
Chemring Energetics benefitted from 
significant year-on-year growth in the 
market during 2009, with revenue up nearly 
100%, driven by an increased demand for 
components associated with aircraft egress 
systems. Part of this growth was derived 
from the commencement of production 
of canopy cutting charges, following the 
transfer of the production line to Ardeer in 
Scotland. However, demand for our metron 
actuators also increased significantly, 
with 30% more products delivered for 
incorporation within a variety of fire 
suppression systems.
Highlights in 2009
•  Revenue increased by 81% to 
£173.2 million
•  Record production of 81mm mortar 
and 40mm illumination rounds
•  Significant growth in pyromechanisms 
for aircraft egress systems
•  Strong demand for training 
products from US Army
•  Acquisition of Hi-Shear 
Technology Corporation
Key information
New orders
£145.2m
+4%
Revenue
£173.2m
+81%
Operating profit
£43.8m
+95%
Operating margin
25%
Revenue from our pyrotechnics businesses grew by 81% 
year-on-year, with significant growth in a number of areas, 
driven primarily by our NATO customers. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
15
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
In the USA, Chemring Energetic Devices 
also increased its pyrotechnics revenue 
by 110% more than the previous year. 
However, some of this growth was 
attributable to the first full year’s 
contribution from Scot, Inc., which was 
acquired by the Group in May 2008. 
On a pro-rated comparison of Scot’s full 
annual revenue, the business has delivered 
a 50% year-on-year improvement, 
which is a significant increase in its 
market penetration. The volume of 
pyromechanisms sold into the US space 
market doubled year-on-year, driven by 
booster sales for the Atlas V heavy launch 
vehicle and continuing sales of separation 
devices for the Delta II /IV launch vehicles. 
Sales of impulse cartridges were also strong 
in 2009, with a contract to refurbish large 
numbers of B-2 ejector impulse cartridges. 
Sales of cartridge actuated devices for the 
F-15/F-16/FA-18 and Boeing 767 aircraft 
continued to reflect the robust demand 
for our products. During the year, we 
also qualified our first product on the 
C-17 aircraft, and we anticipate that we will 
continue to supply these products in 2010 
and beyond.
Acquisitions
In September 2009, we announced 
the conditional acquisition of 
Hi‑Shear Technology Corporation 
for a cash consideration of $132 million. 
The acquisition was successfully completed 
just after the year end in November. 
Hi-Shear, based in Los Angeles, USA, is a 
leading manufacturer of high reliability 
energetic solutions that perform critical 
functions in key US space and defence 
programmes, including satellites, space 
launch vehicles, missile defence and aircrew 
egress. Its products include low shock 
pyrotechnic satellite separation systems, 
space-qualified initiators, electronic missile 
safe/arm devices and acoustic initiators for 
underwater explosive ordnance disposal 
applications. Its product range, technology 
and lead market position provides the Group 
with a solid platform for growth in the 
space market and will augment our existing 
capabilities in a number of other sectors 
as well.
Battlefield training
Troops practice their urban warfare 
skills. Chemring produces a wide range 
of smokes as well as distraction and 
screening grenades for training purposes.
Our business units and companies
Chemring Australia Pty Ltd
Supplies a range of pyrotechnics, military 
training and marine safety products.
Chemring Defence (Europe)
Centre-of-excellence for the design, 
development and production of materials 
and sub-systems for military, OEM and 
safety customers.
• Chemring Defence UK Ltd
• Chemring Defence Germany GmbH 
• Chemring Defence Spain S.L. 
Chemring Energetics UK Ltd
A leading supplier of rocket motors, high 
explosive filling and pyromechanical 
sub-assemblies for military applications. 
Chemring Energetic Devices (USA)
Two Group companies with a significant 
share of the pyromechanisms 
market and strong component sales 
to missiles, munitions, space and 
ammunition prime contractors. 
• Scot, Inc. (USA) 
• Technical Ordnance, Inc. (USA)
Chemring Marine Ltd (UK)
The world’s leading supplier of marine 
distress signals to commercial and 
leisure markets, under the brand names: 
Pains Wessex and Comet.
Chemring Ordnance (USA)
Three Group businesses that develop and 
supply ammunition and pyrotechnically 
activated devices to US and international 
governments and to munitions 
prime contractors.
• Kilgore Defense (USA)
• Martin Electronics, Inc. (USA)
• Titan Dynamics Systems, Inc. (USA)
Hi‑ Shear Technology Corporation (USA)
Develops and produces advanced 
systems and products used in space 
exploration vehicles, satellites, launch 
vehicles and fighter aircraft.
Our products
Military pyrotechnics
• Smokes and flares 
• Distraction and screening grenades 
• Markers
• Smoke payloads 
• Battlefield simulation products 
• Impulse cartridges
Marine pyrotechnics
• Smokes and flares
• Rockets
• Line throwers
Aircrew egress
• Rocket propellant 
• Canopy cutting charges
• Linear explosives
• Cartridge actuated devices
Space and satellite launch
• Initiators
• Separation sub-systems
• Thrusters and actuators
Photograph by Stuart Bingham; © Crown Copyright/MOD, image from www.photos.mod.uk Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
16
Explosive ordnance disposal (EOD)
Strategy
We aim to become the world leader in 
demolition stores, and significantly expand 
our expertise in EOD. We will become a major 
European competitor in the demilitarisation 
of unwanted ammunition and munitions, and 
we will develop a world-leading position in 
counter-mine and counter-IED technologies.
Activities during the year
In December 2008, we completed 
the acquisition of NIITEK, a leading 
developer of robot and vehicle-mounted 
improvised explosive device (IED) detection 
systems, incorporating advanced ground 
penetrating radar (GPR) and metal 
detection technologies. In January 2009, 
the US Army placed a contract, worth up 
to $51 million, for thirty of NIITEK’s Husky 
Mounted Detection Systems (HMDS) for 
high reliability route clearance operations 
in support of US peacekeeping activities 
around the world. A new production 
facility was established in Charlottesville, 
Virginia, and manufacture and assembly 
of these advanced detection systems was 
gradually increased. All thirty systems 
were delivered to the US Army on schedule 
and are now being successfully used in 
operations by US forces. The chief of 
the counter-IED branch of the NATO-led 
International Security Assistance Force 
(ISAF) in Afghanistan has commented that 
the HMDS is “a great system that is making 
a real difference in the counter-IED fight”. 
In July 2009, NIITEK was awarded a 
second production contract, worth up to 
$75 million, for the supply of fifty further 
HMDS and spares and support to maintain 
them in the field. As a consequence, the 
business has deployed a number of staff and 
contractors at forward operating bases to 
provide training, maintenance and support 
in order to ensure that the equipment is 
available for the maximum amount of time. 
In December, the US Army announced its 
intention to procure twenty one additional 
systems, and has since placed a contract 
worth up to $34 million with NIITEK. The 
strong demand for HMDS and the hard work 
and dedication of the production team at 
NIITEK resulted in increased revenue for the 
year of £45.6 million, which is some 250% 
higher than its pre-acquisition performance. 
Furthermore, the US Army has indicated its 
interest in procuring a further fifty systems 
in the next few months, and may consider a 
larger multi-year procurement.
Highlights in 2009
•  Revenue increased by 304% to 
£61.2 million
•  US Army order for 80 NIITEK Husky 
Mounted Detection Systems (HMDS) – 
contract value $125 million
•  Highly successful start to production at 
new HMDS facility 
•  New IM-variant demolition stores 
developed and undergoing qualification 
Key information
New orders
£80.9m
+515%
Revenue
£61.2m
+304%
Operating profit
£15.6m
+280%
Operating margin
25%
Threat detection
The Husky Mounted Detection System 
with VISOR™ 2500 excels at detecting 
anti-vehicle mines and other explosive 
hazards – especially on main supply routes.
In January 2009, the US Army placed a contract, worth up 
to $51 million, for thirty of NIITEK’s Husky Mounted Detection 
Systems (HMDS) for high reliability route clearance operations 
in support of US peacekeeping activities around the world. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
17
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Our UK business, Chemring EOD, supplies 
another advanced detection system that 
is used to identify IED packages under 
vehicles and trains. The system is currently 
in operation at many high threat locations 
around the world. It is used to monitor all 
vehicles using the Channel Tunnel between 
the UK and France, at the White House in 
Washington, and in many embassies around 
the world. We have also been working with 
John Hopkins University in the USA on trials 
of the system in the New York City subway 
and its security application to railways 
and subways across the country. In the 
UK, we are working with the Vehicle and 
Operator Services Agency (VOSA) and the 
Highways Agency to adapt the system for 
the inspection of suspect vehicles.
Chemring EOD has also experienced 
growing demand for its BREACH 
secure-coding RF initiation system, 
particularly from US police departments. 
The business is working with a number of 
US and European robot manufacturers to 
integrate the BREACH technology into the 
initiation sequencer for demolition and 
weapon control during EOD operations.
Demolition stores, which are used to destroy 
suspect packages and unwanted ordnance 
and for forced building entry, are another 
important product range for the Group. 
Chemring Energetics in Scotland has just 
completed development of a flexible linear 
cutting charge with insensitive munitions 
(IM) explosive characteristics. This product, 
called SABRE, has been selected by the 
UK Ministry of Defence and qualification 
trials will take place in 2010. An IM-compliant 
design for the Bangalore torpedo, which 
is used to cut barbed-wire and remove 
obstacles, has also been completed and will 
follow a similar qualification programme. 
The growing interest from France and other 
NATO countries in IM-compliant explosives, 
capable of withstanding direct impact from a 
bullet or ignition from a fuel fire, will provide 
a strong export opportunity in the future. 
IED neutralisation
An IED is remotely neutralised using a 
disrupter mounted on a Wheelbarrow 
Mk8b bomb disposal robot.
Our business units and companies
Chemring Energetics UK Ltd 
Based in the Ardeer Peninsula in Scotland 
and in Corsham, England, specialises in 
the design and manufacture of energetic 
materials, detonators, actuated devices 
and demolition stores.
Chemring EOD Ltd (UK)
Comprising the former BDL Systems 
and Richmond businesses, the company 
is based in Dorset and Norfolk, and 
manufactures a range of products for 
detection, assessment and neutralisation 
of explosive threats for improvised 
explosive device disposal (IEDD) and 
unexploded ordnance (UXO) clearance.
Non‑ Intrusive Inspection Technology, 
Inc. (USA)
NIITEK, based in Virginia, is a leading 
developer of robot and vehicle-mounted 
mine detection systems incorporating its 
advanced ground penetrating radar (GPR) 
and metal detection technologies.
Our products
Detection
• Vehicle-mounted detection systems
• Stand-off IED detectors
• Remote IED inspection equipment
• Under-vehicle surveillance systems
Neutralisation
•  Radio, acoustic and hard-wired 
remote initiators 
• Percussion initiators 
• Detonators 
• Explosive charges
• Minefield clearance systems 
• Recoilless de-armers/disrupters
• ROV weapon carriers Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
18
Munitions
Strategy
Our strategy is to develop a position as the 
preferred supplier of energetic materials to 
the key prime contractors for ammunition 
and missiles in Europe and the USA. This will 
be achieved through investment in new 
products, by targeted competition against 
existing sole source suppliers, and by further 
complementary acquisitions. We will maintain 
our position as the world market leader in 
naval ammunition, and we will develop our 
focus as a prime contractor in certain special 
niche markets that are complementary to 
those of our principal customers.
Activities during the year
The munitions businesses had a steady 
year with revenue stable at £86.0 million, 
with just over 50% of the revenue arising 
out of sales of sub-systems or components. 
The profitability of this part of the business 
was, however, affected by the increased 
costs incurred because of poor availability 
of high quality lead azide within the US 
industrial base and a reduction in exports 
to the Middle East due to extended delays in 
the placement of follow-on contracts.
Simmel had a good year in this segment, 
with revenue up 14% driven by increased 
sales of 120mm HEAT ammunition to the 
NATO procurement organisation, NAMSA. 
A follow-on contract, worth over €8 million 
was placed by NAMSA in the middle of 
the year. Our strong position in naval 
ammunition was also maintained, with 
€11 million of revenue generated by sales 
of 40mm and 76mm ammunition to the 
navies of Italy, France, India, Singapore and 
Columbia. Simmel is currently qualifying a 
new generation of 76mm naval ammunition 
that incorporates a new warhead with 
insensitive munitions characteristics and an 
advanced multi-function microwave fuze. 
The performance enhancement offered by the 
new product will ensure the Group maintains 
its lead position in the years to come.
Simmel had a number of other notable 
successes in the supply of complex 
sub-systems to other prime contractors. 
During the early part of the year, qualification 
of the dual mode warhead for the Principal 
Anti-Air Missile System (PAAMS), which 
will be fitted to the UK Type 45 destroyers 
and the Anglo-Italian Horizon frigates, 
was successfully completed. Full production 
commenced and in excess of two hundred 
warheads were delivered to schedule. 
Production of the motor safety initiator 
for the IRIS-T air-to-air missile was also 
successfully increased to its full rate, with 
over five hundred units delivered during 
the year. Export potential for the missile, 
particularly in the Middle East, is looking good 
and we should maintain production volumes 
for years to come.
The recent acquisition of Hi‑ Shear 
Technology Corporation has significantly 
enhanced our electronic safety and arming 
capability and given us a much larger 
presence in the ballistic missile defence 
market. Hi-Shear is the current supplier of 
the Electronic Safe/Arm Fuze (ESAF) for 
the Patriot (PAC-3) missile that forms the 
short-range component in the US ballistic 
missile defence structure. The US 
requirements for Patriot appear firm, 
and a number of other nations are spending 
significant sums of money in procuring 
the system. Over the next five years, the 
number of missiles required is expected to 
double and this will have a positive impact 
on our future revenues.
Chemring Ordnance also made good 
progress with the development of a 
number of 40mm HE grenade variants. 
The Hellhound stand-off breaching round, 
which is used to open doors during forced 
entry situations, has completed qualification 
and production for US special forces has now 
commenced. Our 40mm medium velocity 
HEDP round, which offers longer range and 
higher accuracy than a conventional low 
velocity round, is under test with US forces 
and has been demonstrated to a number of 
European countries, including the UK and 
Holland. In August 2009, the Australian 
Government placed an initial contract with us 
for the supply of both low and high velocity 
HEDP rounds. These new contracts and the 
opportunities developing to load, assemble 
and pack (LAP) products to satisfy future 
US Army requirements demonstrate the 
growing importance of the 40mm grenade 
family within the Group’s future strategy.
Highlights in 2009
•  Revenue increased by 0.2% to 
£86.0 million
•  Sales of naval and tank ammunition 
continue to be strong 
•  Warhead for Principal Anti-Air Missile 
System (PAAMS) entered production 
• NLAW rocket motors in full production
•  New primary explosives facilities under 
construction in the UK and USA
Key information
New orders
£119.8m
+24%
Revenue
£86.0m
+0.2%
Operating profit
£13.4m
‑ 30%
Operating margin
16%
The munitions businesses had a steady year with revenue 
stable at £86.0 million, with just over 50% of the revenue 
arising out of sales of sub-systems or components.  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
19
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Chemring Energetics, in the UK, continues 
to expand its component and sub-system 
business, and revenue in 2009 was 15% 
higher than last year. The majority of this 
growth was generated by a 53% increase 
in revenue from rocket motors, the most 
important of which are the two motors 
supplied for the next-generation anti-tank 
missile, NLAW. These two motors, one 
for launch and the other for flight, were 
manufactured consistently throughout 
the year at more than three hundred units 
per month.
Our Norwegian subsidiary, Chemring Nobel, 
also had a satisfactory year, with revenue up 
15% on last year as a result of increased sales 
of HMX explosive to the commercial market.
Chemring Energetic Devices had a 
satisfactory performance during the 
year, although the lack of availability of 
one primary explosive used in many of 
our detonators had a significant impact 
on production in the second half of the 
year and on its margins. Consequently, 
the business saw a 7% growth in demand 
for high explosive initiation pellets, which 
was offset by the reduction in detonator 
production for fuzing systems due to a 
national shortage of lead azide. Given the 
serious impact this shortage has had on 
our US business and other parts of the 
US defence industry, the Board took the 
decision to invest in the construction of 
our own primary explosives plant in South 
Dakota. Significant progress has been 
made to date, and we are looking to qualify 
production of lead azide and other primary 
explosives during the first part of 2010. 
Two major new facilities are also being 
constructed at the Chemring Energetics site 
in Ardeer, Scotland. Construction of a new 
primary explosives facility for Europe started 
in June 2009, and will be completed by the 
end of the 2010 calendar year. This facility 
will provide a fully automated manufacturing 
process, with remote operation, from 
precipitation to dispatch for our eighteen 
primary explosives. Primary explosives are 
highly sensitive energetic materials that can 
be easily initiated by static, friction, impact 
or heat. The new facility with its automated, 
remote operation capability will significantly 
improve production safety and the yield 
achieved from fairly difficult processes.
Anti-armour capability
A soldier aiming a Next Generation 
Light Anti-Tank Weapon (NLAW). 
Chemring produces several energetic 
components including the boost 
and sustain rocket motors.
The second new capability under 
development at Ardeer is the high explosives 
press and assembly facility that will be used 
to manufacture 40mm grenades, pressable 
warheads and to assemble demolition 
stores, such as our new Bangalore torpedo. 
The construction will be completed in 
June 2010, and will provide a flexible facility 
for a number of products that can be readily 
adapted to new products and technologies 
as they are developed or acquired.
Our business units and companies
Chemring Energetics UK Ltd
Based in the Ardeer Peninsula in Scotland 
and in Corsham, England, a leading 
supplier of detonators, actuators, 
rocket motors, high explosive filling and 
pyromechanical sub-assemblies for 
military applications.
Chemring Energetic Devices (USA)
Comprising two Group companies 
with significant component sales to 
missiles, munitions and ammunition 
prime contractors.
• Scot, Inc. (USA) 
• Technical Ordnance, Inc. (USA)
Chemring Nobel AS (Norway)
Based in Saetre, manufactures and 
supplies RDX and HMX, and other niche 
energetic materials for explosives and 
propellant applications.
Hi‑ Shear Technology Corporation, (USA)
Develops and produces advanced systems 
and products that are used in ballistic 
missile defence systems, tactical weapons 
and frontline fighter aircraft.
Simmel Difesa S.p.A (Italy)
Based in Colleferro, a leading supplier 
of naval, medium and large calibre 
ammunition and components including 
fuzes, safety and arming devices, 
warheads and modular charges.
Our products
Energetics sub‑ systems
• Propellants and rocket motors 
• Fuze and safe/arm units 
• Flight termination systems 
• Pyromechanisms and actuators 
• Warheads and charges 
• Primers
Ammunition and components
• Medium and large calibre ammunition
• Fuzes
• Propellants
• Manufacture of base high explosives
• Insensitive high explosive compositions Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
20
Countermeasures
Strategy
The core strategy for the Countermeasures 
business is to maintain our share of the 
expendable countermeasures market and 
expand the business in line with the size 
of that market, which is expected to grow 
steadily over the next five years. We will 
increase our investment in new products 
and technologies, and will build on our 
current leadership in special material, 
spectral and thrusted flare technologies. 
We will continue to invest in new fully 
automated production facilities that will 
improve operator safety, significantly 
enhance our operational efficiency, and 
maintain our lead role in the development 
of new products for the next generation of 
fixed wing and rotary aircraft.
Activities during the year
Chemring Countermeasures, our UK 
subsidiary, had an excellent year with 
revenue up 17% to a new record. This was 
driven principally by demand from NATO 
forces for our conventional magnesium 
decoys, where annual production hit a new 
record of 380,000 flares during the year. 
However, the 200% increase in demand for 
Typhoon flares and the 130% increase in 
demand for advanced kinematic flares also 
made a significant contribution. With the 
scheduled delivery of additional Typhoon 
aircraft to NATO and Middle East customers 
over the next few years, there is ample 
opportunity for further expansion. 
There was also strong growth in our naval 
countermeasures activities, with revenue 
up 24% from deliveries of various products 
to Spain, Turkey and Romania. The UK 
Ministry of Defence placed a multi-year 
contract for infra-red decoy rounds, 
and we expect a multi-year contract for 
radio-frequency decoy rounds to be placed 
over the next few months once the current 
upgrade programme has been successfully 
completed. The growing threat to ships in 
littoral waters, where weapon protection 
may endanger adjacent shipping or civilians 
on-shore, is driving demand for more 
sophisticated variable range products and 
a more effective delivery launch system.
Good progress is being made with the 
construction of our new advanced flare 
facilities at Salisbury. There is one facility for 
conventional magnesium flares and one for 
spectral flares. Each facility will have fully 
automated flow-line production from mixing 
to final packaging, in which all steps in the 
process are remotely operated. This will 
be a major improvement in safety within 
the production process, and will result in 
a 100% increase in capacity to provide a 
“surge” capability to support our customers’ 
operational needs. The two facilities are 
expected to be completed over the next six 
months, in order that commissioning and 
low-rate production can commence towards 
the end of the calendar year.
Chemring Australia also had a record year, 
with a 45% increase in revenue following 
the signature of a long-term framework 
agreement with the Australian Government. 
As part of our commitment to the contract, 
construction of a new countermeasures 
facility is underway at our site in Lara, which 
is near Melbourne. The new facility will be 
a duplicate of the UK facility, providing 
the Australian Government with a local 
responsive capability and the Group with 
additional global manufacturing capability 
to meet the rapidly changing demands of 
some of our customers.
Alloy Surfaces also had an excellent year, 
with revenue up 25% to over £85 million 
and a record level of production of in 
excess of two million special material 
decoys. This growth was driven by 
increased demand from the US Air Force 
for protection of transport aircraft and the 
UK Ministry of Defence for protection of 
combat aircraft. Production of helicopter 
decoys (M211s and MJU-64s) reduced during 
the year, from 60,000 per month to 40,000 
per month, in line with the US plans for 
withdrawal from Iraq. However, the spare 
capacity was transferred over to MJU-50 
decoy production, where strong demand 
from the US Air Force increased production 
to over 60,000 units per month. A further 
$74 million contract for MJU-50 decoys was 
placed by the US Air Force in the second half 
of the year, providing firm order coverage 
for the next two years’ production. 
Highlights in 2009
•  Revenue increased by 17% to 
£183.5 million
•  Record levels of production at 
Chemring Countermeasures and 
Alloy Surfaces 
•  Demand for Typhoon flares increased 
by 200%
•  Kilgore awarded its largest ever IDIQ 
contract, with a potential maximum 
value of $804 million
• Naval countermeasures up 24%
•  New automated manufacturing 
facilities under construction in the 
UK and Australia 
Key information
New orders
£281.7m
+81%
Revenue
£183.5m
+17%
Operating profit
£53.5m
+18%
Operating margin
29%
Chemring Countermeasures, our UK subsidiary, had 
an excellent year with revenue up 17% to a new record. 
This was driven principally by demand from NATO forces 
for our conventional magnesium decoys. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
21
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
UK demand for BOL/IR decoys also remained 
strong, and production remained steady 
at 40,000 units per month throughout 
the year. The Australian Government 
successfully completed flight trials of the 
BOL system on its F-18 aircraft and there 
is considerable demand from the F-18 
community regarding the early availability of 
the system. The US Navy is starting to show 
interest as it should provide a considerable 
enhancement to the mission duration. 
The UK also completed qualification of 
the BOL system on the Typhoon, and 
export demand for the special material 
decoys should grow as aircraft gradually 
become operational. 
Our other US subsidiary, Kilgore, also had 
a good year, with revenue similar to last 
year but production volumes reduced to 
1.1 million flares as some fairly significant 
product mix changes took place. Delays in 
the placement of new orders by the 
US Department of Defense also had an 
impact, and led to a cessation of production 
on both sets of flares for the B-52 and 
F-22 aircraft. Production approval of both 
the B-52 and C-17 flares was completed at 
the beginning of the year. Initial production 
of the flares has gone extremely well, with 
monthly production steadily breaking new 
records. The re-design of the M212 spectral 
flare was also completed during the year, 
and we have now satisfactorily completed 
the factory acceptance testing in order that 
full production can commence in 2010.
In September, Kilgore was awarded its 
largest ever Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite 
Quantity (IDIQ) contract, potentially worth 
up to a maximum of $804 million, for the 
multi-year supply of M206 helicopter flares, 
and MJU-7 and MJU-10 combat aircraft 
flares. The initial production order for 2010 
was $42 million, which was higher than 
expected. This was subsequently followed 
by a four-year IDIQ contract from the 
US Air Force for flares for the F-22 aircraft. 
This contract has a maximum value of 
$54 million and the initial production 
order of $24 million covers production 
until 2011. The order book for Kilgore at 
the year end had increased to a record 
level of £59.4 million, 95% higher than the 
previous year, and lays a solid foundation 
for substantial growth in 2010.
Dispensing flares
A US Navy F-18E/F Super Hornet deploys 
flares whilst on patrol over Afghanistan. 
Shoulder-launched, IR-guided missiles are 
the main threat to aircraft in the region.
Our business units and companies 
Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. (USA)
Based in Philadelphia, the world’s only 
manufacturer of covert multi-spectral 
IR decoys fielded today. A major supplier 
to the US Department of Defense and 
militaries world wide, Alloy’s patented, 
proprietary technology employs 
pyrophoric materials that radiate in-band 
IR energy to decoy the guidance systems 
of attacking enemy missiles.
Chemring Australia Pty Ltd
Based in Victoria, Australia’s leading 
manufacturer and supplier of military 
countermeasures.
Chemring Countermeasures Ltd (UK)
Based in Salisbury, a world leader in the 
design, development and manufacture of 
advanced expendable countermeasures for 
air and sea platforms. With more than forty 
years experience and combined with its 
in-house technology centre with extensive 
facilities and equipment, it provides 
effective and reliable solutions to counter 
increasingly sophisticated threats.
Kilgore Flares Company LLC (USA)
Based in Toone, Tennessee, Kilgore 
Flares develops and produces airborne 
expendable IR countermeasure decoys 
and IR naval decoys.
Our products 
Air countermeasures
• Conventional MTV flares
• Advanced decoys
• Special material decoys 
• Chaff 
Naval countermeasures
• RF decoys 
• IR decoys Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
22
Review by the Finance Director
Total underlying operating profit* was £114.7 million, 
an increase of 35%, with the Energetics division growing 59% 
and Countermeasures division 18%.
Results
Total revenue was £503.9 million (2008: £354.2 million), an increase of 42%. Total underlying 
operating profit* was £114.7 million (2008: £84.9 million), an increase of 35%.
Revenue, excluding acquisitions, increased 29% to £458.3 million (2008: £354.2 million). 
Underlying operating profit*, excluding acquisitions, increased 20% to £101.9 million 
(2008: £84.9 million). Net underlying operating margins*, excluding acquisitions, 
were 22% (2008: 24%), and decreased slightly due to the significant growth delivered 
by the Energetics division, whose margins are generally lower than those of the 
Countermeasures division.
Revenue from businesses acquired in the year was £45.6 million and £12.8 million 
of underlying operating profit* was generated at a margin of 28%.
An analysis of total revenue and underlying operating profit* by division is set out below.
The revenue of the Energetics division grew 63% and the operating profit grew 59%. 
The revenue of the Countermeasures division grew 17% and the operating profit grew 18%. 
The results of the Energetics division have been subdivided to show the results of 
Pyrotechnics, Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) and Munitions. This provides more clarity 
on the way the Group management now reports and plans internally, and it is anticipated 
that when IFRS 8 Operating Segments is adopted next year, this will be the format used 
for segmental analysis.
The Group incurred non-recurring restructuring costs of £2.9 million in the year. 
These arise out of the major investment programme at Chemring Countermeasures to 
develop the UK facilities at the site in Salisbury, which has resulted in a restructuring 
programme costing £1.7 million, and in addition, £1.2 million is being spent on the closure and 
transfer of the Titan Dynamics Systems business to Martin Electronics in Florida. This latter 
project is integral to establishing the Chemring Ordnance business unit in the USA in 
order to target additional growth and generate the synergies to deliver the strategic plan.
2009 2008
Division
Revenue 
£m
Underlying 
operating profit* 
£m
Margin Revenue 
£m
Underlying 
operating profit* 
£m
Margin 
Energetics
Pyrotechnics 173.2 43.8 25% 95.7 22.5 24%
EOD 61.2 15.6 25% 15.2 4.1 27%
Munitions 86.0 13.4 16% 85.8 19.1 22%
320.4 72.8 23% 196.7 45.7 23%
 Countermeasures 183.5 53.5 29% 157.5 45.5 29%
 Share-based payments - (2.1) - (1.7)
Restructuring costs - (2.9) - -
 Unallocated head office costs - (6.6) - (4.6)
Total 503.9 114.7 23% 354.2 84.9 24%
*  Before goodwill adjustment arising from recognition of tax losses, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and gain/(loss) on fair value movements on 
derivatives of £6.8 million (2008: £16.5 million).
Financial highlights
• Revenue up 42% to £503.9 million
• Underlying profit before tax* up 38% 
to £102.6 million
• Operating cash flow up 27% to 
£106.7 million
• Investment in research and development 
more than doubled to £18.9 million
• The Group had £106.9 million of undrawn 
borrowing facilities at the year end
Key information
Net assets
£273.6m
+19%
Operating cash flow
£106.7m
+27%
Gearing
45%
‑ 6% Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
23
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Interest income in the year was £0.7 million (2008: £1.8 million). 
The interest charge for the year was £12.9 million (2008: £12.6 million).  
Included within interest is £1.4 million (2008: £0.7 million) 
for retirement benefit obligations. Net interest was covered 
9.4 times (2008: 7.9 times) by underlying operating profit*. 
Underlying profit before tax* was £102.6 million (2008: £74.2 million), 
an increase of 38%.
Tax on the underlying profit before tax* was £27.6 million 
(2008: £20.7 million), representing a rate of 27% (2008: 28%).
Underlying profit after tax* on continuing operations was 
£75.0 million (2008: £53.5 million), an increase of 40%.
Reconciliation of statutory operating profit 
to underlying operating profit 
Underlying profit is used by the Board to measure and monitor 
the underlying performance of the Group. Set out below is 
a reconciliation of statutory operating profit and underlying 
operating profit.
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Statutory operating profit 107.9 68.4
Add back:
Goodwill adjustment arising 
from recognition of tax losses - 1.8
Intangible amortisation arising 
from business combinations 13.8 6.0
(Gain)/loss on fair value 
movement on derivatives (7.0) 8.7
Underlying operating profit 114.7 84.9
Profit before tax and underlying profit before tax also vary by 
the above amounts.
All references in this report are to underlying operating profit 
and underlying profit before tax.
Shareholder returns
Underlying basic earnings per ordinary share* from continuing 
operations were 213p (2008: 160p), an increase of 33%. 
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations were 
199p (2008: 123p), an increase of 62%. 
The total dividend per ordinary share of 50p (2008: 35p) is covered 
4.3 times (2008: 4.6 times) by the underlying earnings per share* 
of the continuing operations.
Shareholders’ funds at the year end were £273.6 million 
(2008: £230.6 million).
Pensions 
The deficit on the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes before 
associated tax credits, as defined by IAS19 Accounting for pension 
costs, was £28.1 million (2008: £13.6 million), more than double the 
deficit last year. The increase reflects the significant changes in 
market conditions during the year, particularly corporate bond rates. 
During the year, the triennial actuarial valuation as at April 2009 
for the UK Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme was commenced, 
and is expected to be finalised during the first half of 2010. 
On 6 April 2009, the Chemring Group Executive Pension Scheme 
was merged into the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme. As a 
consequence of the scheme merger, the Group increased the value 
of its bank guarantee to the Staff Pension Scheme to £7.2 million 
from £6 million during the year. The guarantee may be drawn upon 
in certain events of default by the Company. At the year end, the 
Group had also placed £5.0 million in an escrow account, to provide 
additional funding for the Staff Pension Scheme in the event of a 
default. A further £5.0 million payment has been made into the 
escrow account since the year end in accordance with the agreed 
funding plan for the scheme. 
Although the Staff Pension Scheme currently remains open for 
future accrual for existing members, most of our UK employees 
are now offered membership of a defined contribution pension 
scheme. The majority of our overseas pension arrangements are 
also defined contribution, save in those European countries where 
certain defined benefit pension arrangements are required. 
Research and development
Research and development expenditure totalled £18.9 million 
(2008: £9.3 million), more than double last year. An analysis of 
expenditure is set out below:
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Customer funded research and development 9.7 3.4
Internally funded research and development 4.4 3.3
Capitalised development costs 4.8 2.6
Total research and development expenditure 18.9 9.3
The Group’s policy is to write-off capitalised development costs 
over a three year period. Amortisation of development costs was 
£1.5 million (2008: £0.7 million). Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
24
Review by the Finance Director
continued
Operating cash flow was strong at £106.7 million 
(2008: £83.7 million), and gearing at the year end 
reduced to 45% (2008: 51%).
Acquisitions
During the year the Group acquired 100% of the issued stock 
capital of the following business:
Date 
acquired 
Consideration
(including costs)
£m
Non-Intrusive Inspection 
Technology, Inc. (NIITEK) 12 Dec 2008 26.9
Total consideration 26.9
A summary of the fair value of assets acquired and the goodwill 
arising on the acquisition is as follows:
2009 
£m
Intangible assets 15.5
Fixed assets 0.4
Debt assumed (0.3)
Working capital (1.7)
Deferred tax (3.6)
Fair value of assets acquired 10.3
Consideration (including costs) 26.9
Goodwill arising 16.6
Impact of acquisitions on revenue growth
During 2008 the Group acquired Richmond Electronics & 
Engineering Limited, Titan Dynamics Systems, Inc., Scot, Inc. and 
Martin Electronics, Inc. The businesses were owned for twelve, 
seven, four and three months respectively, and contributed 
£19.6 million to the Group’s revenue in 2008.
The table below reconciles the Group’s 2008 revenue on a 
proforma basis, assuming the above four businesses had been 
owned for a full year, and 2009 revenue.
£m
Actual revenue 2008 354.2
Additional revenue from acquired businesses 
if owned for a full year 27.0
Proforma 2008 revenue 381.2
Businesses acquired in 2009 45.6
Growth of businesses acquired in 2008 9.8
Organic growth 67.3
Actual revenue 2009 503.9
Cash flow
Operating cash flow was £106.7 million (2008: £83.7 million), 
which represents a conversion rate of underlying operating profit* 
to operating cash of 93% (2008: 99%). Working capital balances 
were well controlled in the year and were kept below increases in 
Group revenues.
Fixed asset expenditure across the Group was £38.2 million 
(2008 £34.2 million), which includes costs related to the 
commencement of construction of new facilities at our sites in 
Salisbury and Australia. We adopted IAS23 (Revised) Borrowing 
Costs during the year to appropriately reflect the finance costs 
associated with these projects.
Cash flow from operating activities was £49.8 million 
(2008: £36.1 million), which represents a conversion rate of 
underlying operating profit* to cash flow of 43% (2008: 43%). 
A summary of Group cash flow is set out below:
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Operating cash flow 106.7 83.7
Capital expenditure (38.2) (34.2)
Tax (18.7) (13.4)
Cash flow from operating activities 49.8 36.1
Interest (10.5) (8.2)
Dividends (13.8) (9.3)
Net cash inflow before acquisitions and disposals 25.5 18.6
Net debt, facilities and going concern
Net debt at the year end was £122.8 million (2008: £116.7 million), an 
increase of 5%. The Group had £106.9 million (2008: £107.1 million) of 
undrawn borrowing facilities at the year end.
Gearing at the year end was 45% (2008: 51%). A summary of debt 
is set out below:
2009 
£m
Cash 61.3
Term loans (96.9)
US loan notes (87.2)
(122.8) Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
25
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
A summary of the Group’s main committed bank facilities and 
repayment dates is set out below:
Facility type 
Total 
facility 
£m
Repayment 
dates 
Required 
repayments 
£m
Renewal 
dates 
Working capital 50.0 2012
Term loans 91.8 2010 32.9
2011 35.5
2012 23.4
91.8
US loan notes 87.2 2017 87.2
At the end of October 2009 the working capital facility was unutilised, 
due to the availability of net cash balances. Terms loans and the 
US loan notes were fully drawn.
At the year end the Group comfortably met its two main bank 
covenants, as outlined below:
Covenant Actual Headroom
Interest cover to EBITDA 4.0 11.2 7.2
Debt to EBITDA 3.0 1.4 1.6
On 19 November 2009, the Group completed a $280 million private 
placement of seven/ten year fixed interest loans with a number of 
institutional investors. The loan notes, which mature in 2016 and 
2019, carry an interest rate of approximately 5.5%. The proceeds 
were used to purchase Hi-Shear Technology Corporation for 
$132 million, repay the existing US dollar and sterling debt, 
and provide additional working capital facilities for the Group. 
The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on going 
concern. Whilst the current volatility in financial markets has created 
general uncertainty, the Group has significant working capital 
headroom, strong covenant compliance and a record order book. 
Accordingly, the directors have a reasonable expectation that 
adequate financial resources will continue to be available for the 
foreseeable future.
Foreign exchange
The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into 
sterling at weighted average exchange rates.
Currency denominated net assets are translated at year end rates.
Effective translation rates were as follows:
2009 2008 % change
Average rates
US dollar 1.55 1.87 17%
Euro 1.13 1.26 10%
Year end rates
US dollar 1.65 1.63 (1)%
Euro 1.12 1.27 12%
Revenue and underlying operating profit* improved by 
approximately £45.6 million and £10.2 million respectively during 
the year, primarily as a result of the US dollar and Euro appreciation 
against sterling. 
Post balance sheet events
Private placement of loan notes
As noted above, on 19 November 2009, the Group completed the 
private placement of $280 million of fixed interest loan notes with 
a number of institutional investors. The proceeds were used to fund 
the acquisition of Hi-Shear Technology Corporation, repay existing 
short and medium term debt, and provide additional working 
capital facilities for the Group. 
Acquisition of Hi‑ Shear Technology Corporation
On 25 November 2009, the Group purchased the entire stock 
capital of Hi-Shear Technology Corporation for a cash consideration 
of $132 million. The consideration was funded from the private 
placement of loan notes referred to above.
Conditional acquisition of The Allied Defense Group, Inc.
On 19 January 2010, the Group announced the conditional 
acquisition of The Allied Defense Group, Inc. for a cash 
consideration of $59 million. The consideration for this acquisition 
will also be funded from the recent loan note issue.
P A Rayner
Finance Director
19 January 2010
On 19 November 2009, the Group completed the private 
placement of $280 million of fixed interest loan notes with 
a number of institutional investors. Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
26
Key performance indicators
The Group’s strategy is underpinned by focusing on a number 
of key financial performance indicators. The key indicators that 
the Board utilises to assess Group performance are set out below. 
Similar indicators are used to review performance in each of 
the Group’s businesses. Details of non-financial performance 
indicators are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Review.
The Board considers that the measurement of underlying 
and divisional operating profit provides additional useful 
information for users.
Orders received and order book
Orders received Order book
Continuing operations
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Energetics
Pyrotechnics 145.2 139.5 172.4 186.3
EOD 80.9 13.2 36.9 10.4
Munitions 119.8 96.5 117.7 84.3
345.9 249.2 327.0 281.0
Countermeasures 281.7 155.2 232.0 128.0
Total 627.6 404.4 559.0 409.0
The closing order book at the year end of £559.0 million represents 
a 37% increase on the previous year end. This reflects the significant 
increase in demand for the Group’s products during the year, and 
provides a solid base for performance in the current financial year. 
Since most of the Group’s contracts are annual contracts with 
delivery periods from six to twelve months following receipt of order, 
the order book represents a good leading indicator of the minimum 
revenues that will be traded in the following twelve months.
Operating profit**
Continuing operations
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Energetics
Pyrotechnics 43.8 22.5
EOD 15.6 4.1
Munitions 13.4 19.1
72.8 45.7
Countermeasures 53.5 45.5
Total 126.3 91.2
The operating profit from continuing operations provides a 
consistent year-on-year measure of the trading performance 
of the divisions within the Group. It does not include significant 
non-recurring or exceptional costs that would distort a comparative 
assessment nor does it include unallocated corporate costs 
associated with operating a public company. The operating profit 
from continuing operations for the Group increased by 38% during 
the year, reflecting the strong operating performance of both 
divisions. The Countermeasures division improved by 18% and 
the Energetics division by 59%.
** Operating profits of the divisions are stated before charges for share-based 
payments, unallocated head office costs, restructuring costs and goodwill adjustment 
arising from recognition of tax losses, intangible amortisation arising from business 
combinations and gain/(loss) on fair value movements on derivatives totalling 
£18.4 million (2008: £22.8 million)
Return on sales** 
Continuing operations
2009 
%
2008 
%
Energetics 23 23
Pyrotechnics 25 24
EOD 25 27
Munitions 16 22
Countermeasures 29 29
Total 25 26
The return on sales percentage is a vital measure that provides 
an assessment of the profitability of the business and allows a 
comparison to be made of management performance and trading 
effectiveness independent of revenue size. In a company with a 
significant rate of growth, such a measure provides a clear indicator 
of whether revenue growth has occurred at the expense of profit 
or whether market conditions, such as competitive pressures, have 
made an impact. The two divisions have maintained their return on 
sales consistent with last year. However, the higher growth rate of 
the Energetics division has changed the margin mix at the Group 
level, resulting in a 1% reduction in the overall return on sales.
Interest cover
2009 2008
Total 9.4 times 7.9 times
Interest cover provides a clear and simple metric of the ratio 
between the operating profit generated by trading, compared 
with the funding requirement to maintain the current debt. It is an 
important indicator for the Group and forms the basis of one of our 
specified banking covenants, which requires us to maintain at all 
times interest cover of at least 4 times. Net finance expense was 
covered 9.4 times by underlying operating profit* at the year end. 
The Board aims to keep interest cover at a prudent level.
Operating cash flow
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Total 106.7 83.7
Operating cash flow provides a simple measure of the cash 
generated by trading within the businesses. It represents 
the money available to fund capital expenditure, interest 
payments, tax and shareholder dividends. The Group operating 
cash flow increased by 27% to £106.7 million during the year. 
This represents a conversion rate of underlying operating profit* 
to operating cash of 93%. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
27
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Principal risks and uncertainties
As described on page 50 and 51, the Board is responsible for the Group’s systems of internal control and its risk management systems. 
The Board has constituted a Risk Management Committee, which meets quarterly, to review the key risks associated with the achievement 
of the annual budget and the five year plan for each business; the top five health and safety risks identified at each site; and the risk 
control procedures implemented. The Committee reports biannually to the Audit Committee and the Board and, through this process, the 
Board has identified the following principal risks currently facing the Group. The mitigation actions taken by the Group management to 
address these risks are also set out below. The Group mitigates its risk exposure through an insurance programme that covers property 
and liability risks, where it is appropriate and cost effective to do so.
Risk Mitigation actions
Health and safety risks 
The nature of the Group’s operations, 
involving energetic materials, is such that 
the Board considers health and safety to 
be a key area of focus in managing risk.
Health and safety is included on the agenda at every Board meeting and is discussed at 
the monthly Group Executive Committee meeting. The Board believes that responsibility 
for the delivery of world class safety standards is an integral part of the operational 
management accountability, and managers are therefore expected to embrace a 
positive safety culture and to demonstrate leadership and commitment in the workplace. 
All employees are encouraged to report potential hazards, and to raise any health and 
safety concerns through the appropriate channels. 
Our stated aim is to achieve zero injuries and to reduce health and safety risks, 
where they cannot be eliminated altogether, to a level which is “as low as reasonably 
practicable”. All businesses are expected to proactively manage their own risks but 
in addition, the top five site risks at each business and their associated mitigation 
programmes are reviewed on a monthly basis by the Group Executive Committee and 
quarterly by the Risk Management Committee. Technology and automation roadmaps 
support the Group’s strategy for risk reduction through increased automation and 
remote operations, and this strategy is reflected in the Group’s five year plan. 
Further details on the Group’s approach to health and safety are set out in the Corporate 
Responsibility Review. 
Possible defence budget cuts
We recognise that with large budget 
deficits and the prevailing economic 
conditions, there will be downward 
pressure on many countries’ budgets 
and defence expenditure could be 
severely impacted. 
Given the largely consumable nature of the Group’s products and the fact that we 
are not generally exposed to very large, long term defence programmes, the Board 
is currently confident that the Group will not be significantly affected by future cuts 
in worldwide defence budgets. However, we continually assess whether our proposed 
product developments align with priorities for future funding. Most of our product 
development programmes take between six and twelve months to complete, and we 
believe that this gives the Board the opportunity to quickly re-deploy engineering staff 
to product areas where funding is secure.
The US Department of Defense is the Group’s largest customer. Although we anticipate 
a reduction in the overall US defence budget over the next few years, at the present 
time, we do not foresee any significant change in the level of future demand for the 
Group’s products in the US. 
Timing of orders
The Group has a very strong order book 
but in general, the majority of the Group’s 
contracts are of a relatively short duration 
and, with the exception of framework 
contracts with key customers, do not 
usually cover multi-year requirements. 
This means that an unmitigated delay in 
the receipt of key orders could affect the 
Group’s earnings, and achievement of its 
growth targets, in a given financial year. 
Maximising order intake is therefore a key 
priority for the Group.
We are addressing this through the strengthening of our sales and marketing resources 
within individual businesses and at a divisional level. 
The development of world class manufacturing facilities, with the ability to transfer 
manufacture across sites and with an efficient enterprise resource planning system, also 
provides us with the flexibility to change our manufacturing schedules, if anticipated 
orders are delayed and need to be replaced at short notice, and to satisfy our customers’ 
surge requirements. 
We continue to pursue long term, multi-year contracts with our major customers 
wherever possible.  Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
28
Risk Mitigation actions
Management resource
The Group requires competent 
management if it is to achieve its growth 
expectations, successfully integrate 
its acquired businesses and meet its 
aggressive order capture targets. 
The Board has identified, in particular, 
that the Group needs to strengthen its 
sales and marketing resources, in order 
to maximise order intake as explained 
above, and its engineering resources, 
in order to undertake the product 
development activities needed to 
support the Group’s five year plan. 
The Group Executive Committee reviews the strengths and weaknesses of the 
management team at each business twice a year. We continue to strengthen the 
management organisation across the Group, and a number of new senior appointments 
have been made during the year. A bespoke management development programme for 
the senior management was delivered by Henley Management College during the year, 
and we are now considering how this will be rolled out to the next tier of management.
We have undertaken a detailed review of our future sales and marketing and engineering 
resource requirements, and we are actively recruiting in each of these areas. Over the 
next twelve months, we will focus on future requirements for our finance functions 
and on implementing a long term IT strategy that will be scalable and able to rapidly 
encompass additional new businesses as the Group continues to expand.
Introduction of new 
manufacturing facilities 
We are currently investing significant 
capital expenditure in the establishment 
of new manufacturing facilities in the UK, 
the USA, Italy and Australia. We need to 
ensure that these facilities are completed 
within budget and on time, in order to 
maximise our manufacturing capacity for 
our future growth expectations.
Progress on all of the significant capital investment projects is being closely monitored 
by the Group Executive Committee and the Board. 
A Senior Project Director has been appointed to oversee the design and construction 
activities for the new countermeasures facilities in the UK and Australia, and dedicated 
project managers have been appointed to oversee the other major programmes in the 
USA and continental Europe. 
The new countermeasures facility at Salisbury in the UK is currently running slightly 
behind schedule, due to the challenges associated with the new automated process 
which is being installed, but both the UK and Australian facilities should still be 
completed before the end of 2010.
Introduction of new products
The Group’s approach to innovation and 
continued research and development 
activity ensure that we are continually 
adding new products to the range. We 
need to ensure that this new product 
development is completed in a timely 
manner to a standard which allows us 
to undertake volume manufacturing, 
and to produce products against high 
reliability and safety criteria to meet our 
customers’ requirements. 
As referred to above, we are strengthening our engineering resources to ensure that we 
have the right people to deliver the product development activities in our five year plan.
In the UK, we have an established a five year research partnership with Cranfield 
University, looking at new technologies and products for future development. We also 
have smaller partnerships with a number of US universities, including the Georgia 
Technology & Research Institute, University of Massachusetts, Penn. State University, 
Duke University, University of Florida, University of Louisville, Missouri University, 
South Dakota School of Mines, and the New Jersey Institute of Technology.
We continue to build new manufacturing facilities to accommodate the production of new 
products, and to increase capacity on our existing production lines. This necessitates 
careful management of contractors - where construction work is being undertaken, 
suppliers - where new components have to be qualified for use in our products, and 
employees - where training in new skills is required. We continue to introduce Six Sigma 
techniques as appropriate within the organisation to improve our manufacturing 
capabilities. This investment in new facilities will continue over the course of our five 
year plan.
Political risks
It is recognised that the nature of the 
current military operations around the 
world may change over the next three 
to five years. 
The Group’s energetics activities are less dependent on these military activities, 
particularly as the product portfolio continues to grow in areas such as pyrotechnics 
and explosive ordnance disposal (EOD). 
We do not believe that the Group’s countermeasures business will be significantly 
impacted by a change in current military operations, as our products will still be required 
to provide defensive protection during the continuing peacekeeping activities. Growth in 
the countermeasures business will be delivered as our proprietary products are fitted to 
a range of new platforms in Europe and the USA.
Principal risks and uncertainties
continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
29
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Risk Mitigation actions
Competitive risks
Defence is a global industry, which 
is constantly challenged to counter 
ever-changing threats. The Group’s 
strategy is to focus on targeted niches 
in energetic materials and systems, 
where the nature of the products and the 
requisite production and qualification 
processes provide significant barriers to 
new entrants. However, as threats evolve, 
new businesses offering new solutions 
may enter the market.
The nature of the threat from missiles and other weapons is continually changing, 
particularly as new platforms are introduced in different countries, and countermeasures 
solutions need to develop on an ongoing basis to meet the enhanced requirements. 
The number of countermeasures manufacturers is currently small but as technologies 
change, existing manufacturers compete for new products and new businesses can enter 
into the market. The Group is currently the world leader in the supply and manufacture 
of expendable countermeasures, with a number of proprietary products, and we 
intend to maintain this position through our continued investment in research and 
development, and world class manufacturing facilities. 
The competitive threat to our energetics businesses is generally lower as the market is 
fragmented and our competitors are generally smaller companies with national market 
positions and limited product ranges. Our core strategy is to grow our business by taking 
market share and we are, therefore, strongly focused on our research and development 
activities to ensure we have new updated product available at the right time. We also 
invest substantial funds to enhance our manufacturing capabilities, in order to maintain 
our leading position in our niche technologies and markets.
Compliance and corruption risks
The Group operates in over eighty 
countries worldwide, and is subject to 
the laws and regulations of each of these 
countries. The Group must ensure that 
all of its businesses, its employees and 
third parties acting on its behalf comply 
with their legal obligations, and do not 
expose the Group to financial penalties 
or reputational damage.
The Group has a central legal and compliance function which assists and monitors all 
Group businesses. The Group’s internal audit activities have also been expanded to 
incorporate a review of legal risks. 
The Group has a Code of Business Principles, which stipulates the standard of acceptable 
business conduct required from all of our employees and third parties acting on our 
behalf. A significant proportion of the Group’s management have received training in 
relation to ethics and anti-corruption. 
The Group has committed to adherence with the European Aerospace and Defence 
Association’s Common Industry Standards on Anti-Corruption, and is reviewing all of its 
business processes, including arrangements with third party representatives, in order to 
achieve full compliance. 
Financial risks
Details of the financial risks to which the 
Group is potentially exposed are set out in 
Note 24 of the financial statements. Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
30
Corporate Responsibility Review
Our approach
The Group fully acknowledges its obligation to 
ensure the responsible operation of its business 
at all times with due regards to the interests of 
shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers 
and the wider community. 
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and 
maintaining the Group’s policies in this area, and the Chief Executive 
is accountable to the Board for ensuring that the Group’s businesses 
adhere to these policies.
During the year, the Group Executive Committee steered a focused 
review of the Group’s corporate responsibility performance, 
recognising that the long term success of the Group will be enhanced 
by a positive interaction with all of our stakeholders. Our senior 
management also participated in a workshop on corporate 
responsibility as part of the Group’s management development 
programme. As a consequence of these initiatives, we have concluded 
that we should focus in particular on the following key areas:
• Health and safety
• Employee support and development
• Environmental protection
• Ethical business conduct 
We intend that our corporate responsibility approach should be fully 
embedded within our businesses, and our senior management bonus 
plan incorporates specific objectives in each of the above areas.
Further details of our approach are set out below.
In the workplace
Health and safety 
Our policy and practices
The Board recognises that the highest levels of safety are required 
in order to protect our employees, whilst achieving growth and 
maintaining leadership in the Group’s chosen markets. The Board 
believes that all injuries are preventable, and a long term strategy 
has been adopted to ensure that we continually improve our 
performance and reduce risk. 
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for health, safety and 
environmental matters across the Group. The Group Director of 
Safety reports directly to the Chief Executive, and is responsible 
for the effective administration and implementation of the Group’s 
health, safety and environmental strategy. The Group Director of 
Safety reports to the Group Executive Committee on the performance 
of the businesses against agreed objectives, and the Chief Executive 
reports monthly to the Board on all key health and safety issues.
The Board requires that all businesses systematically manage their 
health and safety hazards, set objectives, monitor progress by 
regular measurement, audit and review, and take additional action 
where necessary. Each Managing Director is responsible for the 
management of health and safety within their business and for 
providing adequate resources to satisfy the Board’s requirements. 
All Managing Directors have health and safety related objectives 
incorporated within their annual bonus plan. Managers in our 
businesses are required to enforce procedures, and to provide 
leadership and commitment to promote and embrace a positive 
health and safety culture. We emphasise the importance of individual 
responsibility for health and safety at all levels of the organisation, 
and expect employees to report potential hazards, to be involved in 
implementing solutions, and to adhere to rules and procedures. 
We recognise that a key element in the continual improvement of 
health and safety management is sharing best practice and lessons 
learnt from incidents across all of the Group companies. A common 
incident reporting and investigation procedure is in place, as well as 
an alert system that formally ensures key findings from incidents 
are quickly communicated to all operational sites and actions taken 
as appropriate. All accidents and near misses are investigated, 
with actions generated to prevent recurrence. A Health, Safety and 
Environment Technical Group, with representatives from across the 
Group, supports continual improvement through the development 
and promotion of good health and safety practice.
Our programme of health and safety audits continues, supported 
by external consultants. These audits incorporate a review of 
process safety management in the US, and, in Europe, address 
the requirements of the Seveso II Directive. 
We continue our successful implementation of formal management 
systems across the business, and now have fourteen out of 
seventeen candidate sites validated as compliant with the health 
and safety management system OHSAS18001. We require all 
newly-acquired businesses to achieve certification within two 
years of joining the Group. 
Newly-acquired businesses are rapidly introduced to the Group’s 
safety philosophy, with detailed regulatory compliance audits 
and programme gap analysis. Risk registers are compiled, and 
businesses are required to reduce their major health and safety 
risks to as low as reasonably practicable.
The Group has committed to substantial investments in 
manufacturing facilities that will, in addition to improving productivity, 
improve the safety of the workforce by reducing the levels of risk. 
We apply particular attention to those facilities that compare 
unfavourably with their peers, and have put systems and processes in 
place to facilitate the sharing of information across the Group.
Our ongoing safety improvement activities are focused on 
ensuring that our buildings, processes and products are as safe 
as reasonably practicable for our employees and product users. 
A “Design for Health, Safety and the Environment” programme was 
developed during the year, to identify opportunities for improving 
the safety to users and environmental impact of our products at 
the concept and design stages. The programme is currently being 
rolled out to all of the businesses.
The Group has an established relationship with Cranfield University, 
both for the supply of employee training programmes and for the 
development of simulation modelling to evaluate blast and thermal 
effects from the ignition of pyrotechnic and other materials. 
Our performance
Our lost time incident rate (calculated using the US Occupational 
Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) rules) showed a modest 
improvement from 1.20 to 1.13 incidents per 100 employees during 
the year. Six of our sites reported no lost work days in the year, 
which is an excellent achievement. We are working closely with our 
other sites whose safety performance was not as satisfactory. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
31
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Our historical lost time incident rate performance is shown below:
Lost time incident rate performance
0
2.0
1.5
1.0
Incidents per 100 employees
0.5
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
Whilst we take all incidents seriously, we pay particular attention to 
those where employees are hurt due to an energetic event. We had 
four lost time events following unexpected initiations during the 
year: two at Technical Ordnance in the USA, and one each at 
Chemring Defence Germany and Chemring Australia. These events 
were fully investigated and engineering controls implemented to 
prevent re-occurrence.
A total of thirty five lost time incidents were recorded in the year, 
categorised as follows:
Lost time incidents by category
0
12
Strain
Insect bite
Slip, trip, fall
Energetic event
Chemical splash
Cut/laceration
Falling object
RSI
Impacted stationary object
Ejected object
Entrapment
8
Incidents
4
10
6
2
A continued focus on “near misses” during the year resulted 
in 2,521 near misses being formally reported and acted upon. 
Employees are encouraged to report issues, however small, which 
then go through a rigorous corrective action process.
In our most serious accident during the year, an employee suffered 
the partial amputation of a finger in a press at our Derby, UK 
facility. The incident was fully investigated and the equipment 
involved has now been eliminated from the manufacturing process. 
Employees
The Board recognises the valuable contribution that the Group’s 
employees continue to make to its success, and aims to provide a 
working environment that reflects and rewards this. The Group now 
has over 3,400 employees based in seven countries. 
Employment practices
The Group’s policy is to provide equal opportunities for all 
employees, irrespective of race, nationality, gender, sexual 
orientation, marital status, religion or political belief, disability or 
age. The Group is committed to meeting, at a minimum, the labour 
rights and legislation requirements in each country in which it 
operates, and in practice, often exceeds these. Our employment 
practices policies are introduced at newly-acquired businesses at 
the earliest opportunity after they join the Group.
Male  63%
Female  37%
Gender diversity
  
White  76%
Non-white  24%
Ethnic diversity
  
Development and training
We continue to address training and development requirements 
for employees at all levels within the organisation. During the 
year, the Group’s senior management participated in a tailored 
management development programme, which was delivered by 
Henley Management College, and we are now considering how 
this will be rolled-out to the next tier of management. All of our 
businesses consider training needs for their employees at a local 
level, in order to ensure that they have the right skill base in order 
to deliver their five year strategic plan. Group-wide reviews have 
also been undertaken of our sales and marketing and engineering 
resources, in order to identify the requirements for future recruitment 
and development of our existing employees in these areas.
Our European businesses adopted a new “people capability 
process” for performance appraisal and management during the 
year, and this will be fully implemented in 2010. 
Our first two undergraduate students completed their “year in 
industry” placement with our UK businesses during 2009, and we are 
aiming to extend the programme this year. We are also considering 
how we can develop our graduate recruitment initiatives.
Succession planning, human resource requirements and the future 
organisational structure of the Group as it continues to grow are 
reviewed on a regular basis by the Board. Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
32
Corporate Responsibility Review
continued
Benefits
We aim to provide all of our employees with an attractive and 
competitive benefits package. Almost all of our businesses offer 
occupational pension scheme arrangements and our US employees 
receive health care. A number of our businesses offer health 
screening services and other health-related initiatives such as 
“stop-smoking” clinics. 
The Board is keen to encourage employees to join share schemes 
in order that they can share in the future success of the Group. 
We currently offer savings-related share plans to our UK and US 
employees, and we are reviewing the options for the introduction of 
similar schemes in the other countries in which we operate. 
Communications
The Group pursues a policy of employee communication through 
meetings (including team briefings and works councils) and 
in-house magazines by which employees are made aware of the 
progress of the Group and the companies in which they work. 
We also engage with our employees through representative bodies 
and trade unions. 
Employee surveys are undertaken in relation to specific matters, 
such as health and safety, from time to time. 
A Group magazine, The Chemring Eye, is published on a quarterly 
basis and distributed to all of our employees.
In the environment
Our policy and practices 
The Board believes that environmental protection will help to 
secure the long term future of our businesses. The Group’s 
environmental policy states that we will control pollution, minimise 
the quantity of material burnt at each site, consume resources 
efficiently, and use materials that minimise the environmental 
impact of our operations. 
We now have fifteen out of seventeen candidate sites certified to 
the environmental management system ISO14001. We require all 
newly-acquired businesses to achieve ISO14001 certification within 
two years of joining the Group. 
Our ISO14001 programme requires that all sites have their own 
environmental goals and objectives, which are very much focused 
on local aspects and impacts. However, we continue to monitor key 
environmental data across the Group.
Land quality
Our Scot facility, which is based in Downers Grove, Illinois, USA, 
is located on a site which has “superfund” status under the US 
contaminated land (CERCLA) regime. A £4.6 million provision 
has been made in respect of the pre-acquisition environmental 
liabilities associated with the site, which the Board considers to be 
adequate (see Note 25 of the financial statements). Whilst there 
has been little activity during the year, we continue to work with 
external consultants to ensure that the legal obligations of the 
business in relation to this matter are fully satisfied. 
Incidents
An environmental incident occurred at Chemring Countermeasures 
in the UK in May 2009, when a corroded pipe led to the loss 
of approximately 3,000 litres of dichloromethane (methylene 
chloride) into the ground. The Environment Agency was notified 
immediately, and a fast response limited the environmental 
consequences. A soil vapour extraction plant has been installed 
to protect the local aquifer and the secondary containment 
arrangements have been updated.
Waste 
Our total non-recycled waste generated in the year, excluding that 
generated by businesses acquired during the year, was as follows:
2009 
(tonnes waste)
2008 
(tonnes waste)
Non-hazardous 1,576 1,027
Hazardous 419 1,425
Total 1,995 2,452
The increase in the non-hazardous waste reflects the growth in the 
Group during the year and the expansion of our product ranges. 
The reduction in the hazardous waste reflects the first full year 
of recycling the caustic wastes generated by Alloy Surfaces, an 
initiative which we reported on last year.
Many of our facilities are permitted to burn waste materials on site 
within closely controlled facilities. We offer a collection service 
in the UK for time-expired marine pyrotechnics, including those 
produced by other manufacturers, but these are transferred to an 
accredited third party disposal service. 
The Group is currently investing in a new demilitarisation 
facility in Italy, which will receive time-expired munitions for 
decommissioning and disassembly. The individual materials will 
then be recycled back into the supply chain.
Energy and emissions
During 2008 we collected detailed data on travel within the Group, 
which revealed that this activity represented less than 3% of our 
overall carbon footprint from energy utilisation. Energy utilisation 
is therefore now our main focus of attention. 
Our total emissions during the year, excluding those of businesses acquired during the 
year, in carbon dioxide equivalents were as follows:
Source
2009 
(tonnes CO
2
)
2008* 
(tonnes CO
2
)
2007 
(tonnes CO
2
)
Electricity 36,334 29,128 21,556
Gas 12,512 12,384 11,931
Oil 2,008 2,351 2,878
Total 50,854 43,863 36,365
*restated
(Note: We do not include emissions from our supply chain nor use or disposal of our 
products in these calculations.)
The Group’s total emissions increased by 16% during the year, 
against an increase in revenue (excluding current year acquisitions) 
of 29%, which means that our overall carbon intensity reduced 
during the year as follows:
2009 2008* 2007
Total emissions (tonnes CO
2
) 50,854 43,863 36,365
Group revenue (£million) – continuing 
operations 458.3 354.2 254.7
Tonnes of CO
2
 per £million of revenue 111.0 123.8 142.8
We are increasing our efforts to address energy conservation 
and thus indirect emissions in the future, and a detailed study on 
renewable energy options was undertaken during the year. All UK 
sites have had independent energy audits, and all of our businesses 
have emissions reduction programmes in place. We have also 
adopted a greenhouse gas emissions policy, which allocates 
responsibilities for reducing our direct and indirect emissions, 
and sets out our objectives in this area. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
33
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The Chemring Energetics facility at Ardeer in Scotland is currently 
the only site that falls under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme. 
However, the entire UK Group will be required to participate in the 
Carbon Reduction Commitment programme when it is introduced.
During the year the Group participated in the Carbon Disclosure 
Project for the first time.
Water
We commenced the detailed monitoring of water consumption 
during the year. We consumed a total of 1,762,000 m
3
 of water 
and will provide a progress report next year.
In the community
Helping others
The Board recognises that each of the Group’s businesses has an 
important role to play in its local community. 
The Board operates a charitable policy, which confirms its 
commitment to support selected charitable causes with a focus 
on the military and armed services, and those linked to the local 
communities in which the Group’s businesses operate. At a Group 
level, charitable donations are considered on a monthly basis by the 
Executive Committee, and each business has its own locally held 
charity budget. Examples of support provided during the year include:
• Donations to a range of charities including Help for 
Heroes, Army Benevolent Fund, Supporting Royal Marines, 
SAMA & Falklands Veterans Association, Queen Alexandra 
Hospital Home, various health and cancer charities, local hospitals 
and schools, and ongoing support for the Mary Rose Appeal. 
• Sole sponsorship of the 7 Air Assault Battalion Royal Electrical 
and Mechanical Engineers (REME) Royal Navy Field Gun Crew. 
The Group is proud to be associated with the 7 Air Assault 
Battalion, who provide support to the vehicles, weapons and 
aircraft of 16 Air Assault Brigade. The soldiers support aircraft 
in various areas of conflict around the world. 
• Sponsorship of the UK Aerospace Youth Rocketry Challenge.
• Continued sponsorship of a UK employee in his efforts to 
compete in his chosen sport of archery at the 2012 Olympics. 
In addition to making cash donations, the Group also encourages 
and supports employees who undertake voluntary work in the local 
community, where appropriate. During the year, our employees 
donated their time and services on a wide range of projects, several 
of which had an educational bias.
The Group is involved with a number of educational initiatives, 
notably including the sponsorship of various local schools. 
The Group has a partnership agreement with Cranfield University, 
under which the Group has committed to the provision of significant 
funding for students’ research activities over the next five years. 
With regards to the impact of our manufacturing activities on 
the local community, at locations where our operations may 
inconvenience neighbours through product proofing, we liaise with 
local residents to minimise any impact. We are also cognisant of the 
potential impact of our operations on the local environment, and 
we are addressing this through our environmental strategy.
In the marketplace
Policy on the Sale of Goods and Services
The Group’s strategy is to become the world leader in the 
manufacture of energetic material products and countermeasures 
for the global defence market, and we are presently delivering 
significant growth in this area though a combination of organic 
development and acquisitions. The scope of the Group’s activities 
has significantly widened over the last few years, particularly with 
regards to the supply of components and sub-systems for various 
types of munitions, and there is increasing demand for the supply 
to our customers of third party products. Consequently, the Board 
has adopted a Policy on the Sale of Goods and Services, which 
provides guidance to all stakeholders on the products and services 
that the Group will supply, to which customers and to which 
countries, and sets out a clear definition of what we will not supply. 
All Group businesses are required to comply with this policy, which 
addresses both legal and ethical considerations with regards to 
certain products. 
Business conduct
The Group has adopted a Code of Business Principles, which 
requires our employees, our businesses and all third parties who 
act on our behalf to comply with our standards of acceptable 
business conduct and applicable laws and regulations in all of the 
countries in which we operate. 
The managing directors of each business are required to report 
to the Chief Executive on compliance with the Code of Business 
Principles on an annual basis. 
Ethics and anti‑ corruption
The Group has committed to adherence with the European 
Aerospace and Defence Association’s Common Industry Standards 
on Anti-Corruption, and we have reviewed and updated a number of 
our business processes across the Group with the aim of achieving 
full compliance. Significant progress has been made in the following 
areas during the year: 
• The management of our European businesses and employees 
working within commercial, sales and marketing, finance and 
human resource functions have received training on ethics and 
anti-corruption.
• We have adopted a new Group-wide policy and revised 
procedures on the appointment of agents and other third party 
representatives.
• Approximately one-third of our agents have been subjected to 
due diligence by external consultants, and the remainder have 
been covered by a detailed, internal due diligence review.
• New standard agreements are being entered into with all agents, 
which reflect the requirements of the Common Industry Standards. 
• Policies and procedures on the giving and receiving of gifts and 
hospitality have been adopted. 
Our Code of Business Principles has also been updated to 
incorporate the Common Industry Standards. 
Our US businesses have adopted an ethical compliance programme 
to satisfy US Government requirements for ethical training for 
employees, compliance audits, an employees’ “hotline”, and related 
investigation procedures. 
The Group has a whistleblowing policy and procedures in place 
which enable all employees to raise concerns, in confidence, 
about possible improprieties. These arrangements now reflect the 
requirements of the Common Industry Standards. Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
34
Directors and professional advisers
Kenneth C Scobie~+
Non‑ Executive Chairman
Joined the Group as 
Non-Executive Chairman in 
June 1997. Former Chairman 
of Allied Leisure plc. 
Chairman, Chief Executive and 
non-executive director of a wide 
range of industrial companies 
since 1972.
Aged 71.
Auditors
Deloitte LLP, Southampton
Bankers
Bank of Scotland, London
Stockbrokers
Investec Henderson 
Crosthwaite, London
Professional advisers
Headquarters and 
registered office
Chemring House, 1500 Parkway, 
Whiteley, Fareham, Hampshire, 
PO15 7AF, United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 1489 881880 
Fax: +44 1489 881123 
Website: www.chemring.co.uk
Registration number
86662
Registrars
Computershare Investor 
Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS13 8AE
Dr David J Price CBE
Chief Executive
Joined the Group in 
April 2005 as Chief Executive. 
Formerly Managing Director, 
Naval Marine at Rolls-Royce plc. 
Previous appointments 
in the aerospace sector 
include Managing Director of 
Thomson (UK) Holdings Ltd 
and Chief Executive of 
Thomson-Thorn Missile 
Electronics Ltd (both now 
part of the Thales Group). 
Fellow of the Institute of 
Electrical Engineers and the 
Institute of Marine Engineering, 
Science & Technology. Member of 
the Defence Industries Council.
Aged 54.
Paul A Rayner FCA
Finance Director
Joined the Group in June 1994 
and acted as Finance Director to 
several Group companies before 
being appointed to the Board in 
August 1999. Formerly a Senior 
Audit Manager with Deloitte LLP.
Aged 48.
David R Evans
Non‑ Executive Director
Joined the Group in 1987 
as Managing Director of the 
Countermeasures business and 
appointed to the Board in 1988. 
He took up his current position 
as a non-executive director in 
April 2005, after stepping down 
as Chief Executive, a position he 
had held since January 1999. 
Managing Director of the 
Marconi torpedo business prior 
to joining the Group. Currently 
a non-executive director of 
Avon Rubber plc. Previously 
a non-executive director of 
Whatman PLC.
Aged 63. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
35
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Membership of Board committees during year: * Audit, ~ Remuneration, + Nomination
The Rt Hon 
Lord Freeman*~
Non‑ Executive Director
Joined the Group as a 
non-executive director in 
May 2006. Chairman of the 
Audit Committee. Currently a 
consultant (formerly Partner) 
to PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
Chairman of Thales UK plc and 
a non-executive director of 
Savile Group PLC. He is also on 
the main Board of Thales S.A., 
France. Chairman of Cambridge 
Enterprise – the University 
Technology Transfer Office. 
Partner with Lehman Brothers 
Investment Bankers between 
1969 and 1985. Member of 
Parliament from 1983 to 1997. 
Made a Privy Councillor in 1993. 
Minister 1985–1997.
Aged 67.
Ian F R Much*~+
Non‑ Executive Director
Joined the Group as a 
non-executive director 
in December 2004. 
Senior Independent Director 
and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. 
Previous appointments 
include Chief Executive of 
De La Rue plc and T&N plc, 
and non-executive director 
of Admiral plc, Camelot plc 
and Manchester United plc. 
Currently a non-executive 
director of Senior plc and 
Simplyhealth Group Ltd.
Aged 65.
Air Marshal 
Sir Peter Norriss KBE 
CB AFC MA FRAeS*~+
Non‑ Executive Director
Joined the Group as a 
non-executive director 
in May 2004. Currently a 
non-executive director of 
Turbomeca UK Limited, 
Senior Military Adviser of 
Selex Systems Integration 
Limited and consultant within 
the aerospace and defence 
sectors. Formerly Deputy 
Chief of Defence Procurement 
(Operations) and Controller 
Aircraft. Past President 
of the Royal Aeronautical 
Society and Chairman of 
Turbomeca UK Limited.
Aged 65.
Sarah Ellard FCIS
Company Secretary Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
36
Directors’ Report
The directors present their annual report, together with the 
audited financial statements of the Group and the Company, for 
the year ended 31 October 2009.
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group are the design, manufacture 
and sale of energetic material products and countermeasures.
Business review
The Statement by the Chairman, the Review by the Chief Executive, 
the sections of the annual report on each of the business segments, 
and the Review by the Finance Director, together with the section 
on key performance indicators and principal risks and the 
Corporate Responsibility Review, on pages 4 to 33, provide a review 
of the Group’s business development, performance and position 
during and at the end of the financial year; its strategy and likely 
future development; key performance indicators; and a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business. 
Further information regarding financial risk management policies 
and financial instruments is given in Note 24 of the financial 
statements. Details of significant events since the balance sheet 
date are contained in Note 37 of the financial statements.
Results and dividends
The profit attributable to the Group’s shareholders for the year was 
£70.1 million (2008: £41.2 million). The directors recommend a final 
dividend of 36p per ordinary share, which together with the interim 
dividend of 14p per ordinary share paid in August 2009 gives a 
total for the year of 50p (2008: 35p). The final dividend is subject 
to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 
17 March 2010, and accordingly has not been included as a liability 
in these financial statements.
Directors and their interests
The present directors are shown on page 34 and 35.
The Rt Hon Lord Freeman and Mr K C Scobie will be retiring by 
rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will be 
offering themselves for re-election. Details of the service contract 
between the Company and Mr Scobie are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on page 44. The Rt Hon Lord Freeman does 
not have a service contract with the Company.
None of the directors had a beneficial interest in any contract of 
significance to which the Group was a party during the year ended 
31 October 2009.
Information required as to directors’ shareholdings is set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Substantial shareholdings
At 19 January 2010 the following substantial holdings in the 
ordinary share capital of the Company had been notified to the 
Company in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority:
Name % Interest
Standard Life Investments Ltd 8.99
Old Mutual Asset Managers 5.13
JP Morgan Chase & Co. 4.94
AXA S.A and its group of companies 4.84
Legal & General Group PLC 3.97
BT Pension Scheme Trustees Ltd as Trustees of the 
BT Pension Scheme 3.96
Employees
Details of the Group’s employment policies are set out in the 
Corporate Responsibility Review on page 31. 
Charitable and political donations
Charitable donations amounting to £61,166 (2008: £29,306) were 
made during the year. No political donations were made during the 
year (2008: £nil).
Contractual arrangements
The Group contracts with a wide range of customers, comprising 
governments, armed forces, prime contractors and OEMs across the 
globe. The US Department of Defense is the largest single customer, 
and procures the Group’s products under a significant number of 
separate contracts placed with individual Group businesses.
The Group’s businesses utilise many suppliers across the world, and 
arrangements are in place to ensure that businesses are not totally 
reliant on single suppliers for key raw materials or components.
Policy on payment of suppliers
It is the policy of the Group that each of the Group companies 
should agree appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions 
with suppliers. These will range from standard written terms to 
individually negotiated contracts. Creditor days of the Group as 
at 31 October 2009 amounted to 59 days (2008: 60 days).
The Chemring Group Performance Share Plan 
(the “PSP”)
The following conditional awards were made under the PSP during 
the year:
Date of award
Total number of 
shares awarded
Number of participants 
receiving awards
21 January 2009 150,404 31
24 June 2009 12,653 3
Total 163,057 34
The Chemring 1998 Executive Share Option 
Scheme (the “1998 ESOS”)
No options were granted during the year. Options over 
50,000 ordinary shares were exercised during the year. 
Additional information is set out in Note 32.
The Chemring Group 2008 UK Sharesave Plan 
(the “UK Sharesave Plan”)
On 31 July 2009 options were granted over 33,512 ordinary 
shares. Options over 133 ordinary shares were exercised during 
the year. During the year options on 6,518 shares lapsed. 
Additional information is set out in Note 32.
The Chemring Group 2008 US Stock Purchase 
Plan (the “US Stock Purchase Plan”)
On 31 July 2009 options were granted over 10,461 ordinary shares. 
During the year options on 575 shares lapsed. No options were 
exercised during the year. Additional information is set out in Note 32. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
37
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The Chemring Group PLC Share Based 
Incentive Scheme (the “ESOP”)
No options were granted during the year and there were no options 
outstanding under the ESOP at 31 October 2009.
Approach to share ownership
The Group actively encourages its employees to share in the 
future success of the Group. A second grant of options under 
the UK Sharesave Plan and the US Stock Purchase Plan, which 
were launched in 2008, took place during the year. The Board is 
currently considering the establishment of similar schemes for 
employees in Group companies outside of the UK and the USA.
Share capital and shareholder rights
General
The Company’s share capital consists of ordinary shares of 5p 
each and preference shares of £1 each, which are fully paid up 
and quoted on the main market of the London Stock Exchange. 
Full details of the movements in the authorised and issued share 
capital of the Company during the financial year are provided in 
Note 27 of the financial statements.
All holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and 
vote at any general meeting of the Company and to appoint a 
proxy or proxies to exercise these rights. At a general meeting, 
every shareholder present in person, by proxy or (in the case of a 
corporate member) by corporate representative has one vote on a 
show of hands, and on a poll has one vote for every share held.
To decide who can attend or vote at a general meeting, the notice 
of meeting can give a time, which must not be more than 48 hours 
before the meeting, by which shareholders must have been entered 
on the register in order to have the right to attend or vote at 
the meeting.
If a shareholder has been properly served with notice under 
section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 (“the Act”) requiring 
information about interests in shares, and has failed to supply 
such information within 14 days after the service of the notice, 
then the shareholder is not entitled to attend and vote at a 
shareholder meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the 
capital of the Company other than certain restrictions which may 
from time to time be imposed by law, for example insider trading 
law. In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority, certain employees are required to seek the approval of 
the Company to deal in its shares.
The cumulative preference shares carry an entitlement to a 
dividend at the rate of 7p per share per annum, payable in equal 
instalments on 30 April and 31 October each year. Holders of 
the preference shares have the right on winding-up to receive, 
in priority to any other classes of shares, the sum of £1 per share 
together with any arrears of dividends.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer 
of securities and/or voting rights.
The Company’s Articles of Association (“the Articles”) may 
only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting 
of shareholders.
Issue of shares
Under the provisions of section 551 of the Act, the Board is prevented 
from exercising its powers under the Articles to allot shares without 
an authority in terms of the Act contained either in the Articles or 
in a resolution of the shareholders in general meeting
The authority, when given, can last for a maximum period of five 
years, but the Board proposes that renewal should be sought 
at each Annual General Meeting. Such proposal is set out as 
resolution 8 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Section 561 of the Act requires that an allotment of shares for cash 
may not be made unless the shares are first offered to existing 
shareholders on a pre-emptive basis in accordance with the terms 
of the Act. In accordance with general practice, to ensure that small 
issues of shares can be made without the necessity of convening 
a general meeting, the Board proposes that advantage be taken 
of the provisions of section 570 of the Act to not apply the Act’s 
pre-emptive requirements. Accordingly, a special resolution (set 
out as resolution 9 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting) will 
be proposed which, if passed, will have the effect of granting the 
directors the power to allot not more than 5% of the present issued 
ordinary share capital free of the requirements of section 561 
of the Act. No issue of these shares will be made which would 
effectively alter the control of the Company without prior approval 
of the shareholders in general meeting.
Purchase of own shares
During the year the Company purchased 78,301 (2008: 160,000) 
of its ordinary shares, and 115,170 (2008: nil) ordinary shares were 
distributed following vesting of awards under the Chemring Group 
Performance Share Plan. At 31 October 2009, the Company held a 
total of 273,131 ordinary shares in treasury (representing 0.8% of 
the ordinary shares in issue on 1 November 2009). All purchases of 
ordinary shares were by means of market purchases through the 
London Stock Exchange. Further details can be found in Note 30 of 
the financial statements.
A special resolution (set out as resolution 10 in the Notice of Annual 
General Meeting) will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting, to renew the Company’s authority to purchase its 
own shares in the market up to a limit of 10% of its issued ordinary 
share capital. The maximum and minimum prices are stated in the 
resolution. The directors believe that it is advantageous for the 
Company to have this flexibility to make market purchases of its 
own shares. The directors of the Company will consider holding 
repurchased shares pursuant to the authority conferred by this 
resolution as treasury shares. This will give the Company the ability 
to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost effectively and will 
provide the Company with additional flexibility in the management 
of its capital base. Any issues of treasury shares for the purposes 
of the Company’s employee share schemes will be made within the 
10% anti-dilution limit set by the Association of British Insurers. 
The directors will only exercise this authority if they are satisfied 
that a purchase would result in an increase in expected earnings 
per share and would be in the interests of shareholders generally. Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
38
Directors’ Report
continued
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws 
and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the directors are required 
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), as adopted 
by the European Union, and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
The directors have also chosen to prepare the parent company 
financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards and applicable law). Under company law the directors 
must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and 
of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing 
these financial statements, the directors are also required to:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information;
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance; and
• make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as 
a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the financial position of the Company and enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
We confirm to the best of our knowledge that:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by 
the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position, and profit and loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
• the Statement by the Chairman, the Review by the 
Chief Executive, the sections of the annual report on each of 
the business segments and the Review by the Finance Director, 
together with the section on key performance indicators and 
principal risks and the Corporate Responsibility Review, which are 
cross-referred from the Directors’ Report, include a fair review 
of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of 
the principal risks and uncertainties they face. 
Provision of information to auditors
Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report 
confirms that:
• so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
• the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have 
taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors 
are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Close company provisions
As far as the directors are aware, the close company provisions of 
the Taxes Acts do not apply to the Group nor has there been any 
change in that respect since 31 October 2009.
Auditors
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors will be 
proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting 
to be held on 17 March 2010, together with explanatory notes, 
appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting sent to 
all shareholders.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 19 January 2010 
Signed on behalf of the Board
S L Ellard
Company Secretary Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
39
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Directors’ Remuneration Report
This report sets out the information required by the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008. The Report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority, and describes how the Board has applied the principles and complied with the provisions relating to directors’ 
remuneration in the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance. As required by the Regulations, the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
will be submitted to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting on 17 March 2010.
The Act requires the auditors to report to the Company’s members on certain parts of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and to 
state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Accounting Regulations. 
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for the audited and unaudited information.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
Remuneration Committee
During the year under review the Remuneration Committee comprised:
Mr I F R Much (Committee Chairman)
Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss
The Rt Hon Lord Freeman
Mr K C Scobie (resigned 25 March 2009) 
The Committee’s principal responsibilities are:
• determining, agreeing with the Board and reviewing from time to time the overall policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, 
the executive directors, the Company Secretary and certain other senior executives in the Group, and their individual remuneration 
packages and any changes thereto;
• approving the terms and conditions of employment, and any changes thereto, of the executive directors; 
• approving any compensation payments for executive directors;
• approving the design of, and determining targets for, any performance-related pay schemes operated by the Group;
• reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and the Company’s shareholders; 
• providing oversight of potential remuneration-related risks arising across the Group; and
• overseeing any major changes in employee benefits structures across the Group.
None of the Committee members has any personal financial interest in the matters reserved for the Committee nor do they have 
any conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships, and they are not involved in the day to day running of the Group’s business. 
Therefore, they are regarded by the Board as independent.
The Committee met six times during the year. The Chairman and Chief Executive attend meetings by invitation but are not present during 
any discussions relating to their own remuneration. 
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Company’s website or on request from the Company Secretary.
Advisers
During the year the Committee received advice on remuneration matters from Hewitt New Bridge Street.
The Committee also consults internally with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Remuneration policy for executive directors
The Committee’s policy is to provide executive remuneration packages which are competitive, but not excessive, by reference to market 
rates across comparator companies, reflect the performance of the business against financial objectives, and which take into account the 
individual contribution and performance of each executive director. Remuneration packages comprise the following elements:
(i) base salary and benefits, including pensions;
(ii) annual bonuses linked to the Group’s financial performance; and 
(iii)  awards of share-based incentives linked to the long term growth of the Group.
The Committee aims to align the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders, by ensuring that a significant 
proportion of remuneration is performance-related. This is achieved through the performance-related elements of annual bonuses 
and share-based incentives. Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
40
Key decisions reached by the Committee during the year in relation to ongoing remuneration arrangements for the executive directors 
are summarised below. 
Base salary: The Committee considered, in particular, the performance of the Group, the prevailing economic conditions and the need to 
maintain market competitive salary levels. Against this background, base salary increases for the executive directors were limited to 5% 
with effect from 1 April 2009. 
Pension provision: The Committee has agreed that with effect from 1 April 2010, the executive directors will cease to participate in 
the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme, and will instead, for all future service, receive a salary supplement of 20% of base salary. 
Whilst these levels of contributions enhance the short-term fixed costs to the Company relative to the existing defined benefit pension 
arrangements, there is clearly an advantageous and offsetting transfer of investment risk to the individuals. 
As a result of these two changes, the overall level of fixed pay for the executive directors in the forthcoming year will be closer to, but still 
below, the median of the market benchmarks used by the Committee (benchmarks which take into account both market capitalisation and 
turnover, and which have therefore increased less for the Group than would have arisen if based solely on market capitalisation). 
Annual bonus: Executive directors will be required to receive 40% of any bonus earned in 2010 in the form of deferred shares 
(an increase from 25% in 2009). All other key aspects of the bonus scheme remain unchanged.
Share awards: Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, share awards worth (at grant) up to 125% of base salary 
will be granted to the executive directors in 2010 (within an increased normal annual award limit of 150% of salary). Awards will continue 
to be subject to highly challenging earnings per share growth targets.
More details on each of these changes are outlined below. 
Comparator groups
The constituents of the sector-based comparator group utilised by the Committee for remuneration benchmarking purposes during the 
year were as follows:
Charter International plc Rotork PLC
Chloride Group PLC  Spectris plc
Halma p.l.c.  Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc
IMI plc   Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Meggitt PLC  VT Group plc 
Melrose PLC  The Weir Group PLC
QinetiQ Group PLC
The Committee also considered general comparator groups based on FTSE 250 companies with a similar market capitalisation and turnover. 
Base salaries and benefits
The executive directors’ base salaries are reviewed annually by the Committee, and adjustments made, if appropriate, taking into account 
individual performance and comparable salary levels in the comparator groups set out above. The Committee refers to published salary 
surveys and data provided by its remuneration advisers, Hewitt New Bridge Street, and also reviews the remuneration information 
presented in the annual reports of companies in the comparator groups. 
The executive directors’ current base salaries are as follows:
• Dr D J Price £420,000 (2008: £400,000)
• Mr P A Rayner £262,500 (2008: £250,000)
The executive directors’ base salaries will next be reviewed on 1 April 2010.
The Committee also considers and approves the base salaries for nineteen other senior executives, and reviews salaries for the next tier 
of management at each of the Group’s businesses. The Committee therefore has due regard for salary levels across the Group in applying 
its remuneration policy.
The main taxable benefits for executive directors are fully-expensed company cars and private medical insurance.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
41
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Annual bonuses
During the year under review, the Company operated an annual performance-related bonus plan for the executive directors, with key 
characteristics as follows:
• a maximum bonus potential for the executive directors of 100% of base salary;
• three quarters of the bonus potential linked to two separate financial performance conditions, namely earnings per share and cash flow 
(with equal weighting). The conditions, which are set by the Committee, take into account a number of factors including budget, market 
expectations, long term growth prospects and the previous year’s out-turn. No bonus is payable for achievement of less than 90% of 
target, with bonuses being earned thereafter on a straight-line basis up to the maximum for 110% or better achievement of target;
• one quarter of the bonus potential may be achieved in connection with the satisfaction of personal objective criteria set at the 
beginning of the financial year. These comprise a mixture of short term and longer term objectives linked to the delivery of the 
Company’s strategic plan. No part of this element of bonus is payable unless threshold performance of both the financial conditions 
described above is achieved. The personal objectives set for the executive directors during the year were linked to the following 
strategic objectives:
 – growth of the Group’s order book, and development of the Group’s sales and marketing capabilities;
 – formation of the new International Division, and establishment of joint ventures;
 – delivery of margin improvements and increased cash flow generation; 
 – management of capital projects;
 – improvements in the Group’s environmental performance; and
 – strengthening of the Group’s balance sheet; 
• one quarter of any bonus payable is deferred as a conditional award of the Company’s shares, with vesting subject to continued 
employment (save in good leaver scenarios) three years from the award of bonus; and 
• the payment of any bonus remains ultimately at the discretion of the Committee.
Bonuses are non-pensionable.
The table below summarises the bonuses earned by the executive directors, as a percentage of base salary, in respect of the current and 
last years (the figures in brackets are the maximum percentages that could have been achieved):
 2009 2008
Bonus percentage received for: D J Price P A Rayner D J Price P A Rayner
Earnings per share performance 35.63  (37.5) 35.63  (37.5) 19.1  (22.5) 19.1  (22.5)
Cash flow performance 37.5  (37.5) 37.5  (37.5) 22.5  (22.5) 22.5  (22.5)
Achievement of personal objectives 21.0  (25.0) 21.25  (25.0) 10.5  (15.0)  12.7  (15.0)
Total 94.13  (100.0) 94.38  (100.0) 52.1  (60.0) 54.3  (60.0)
The Committee continues to set highly challenging bonus targets for the achievement of maximum bonuses. Despite the outstanding 
levels of EPS growth and returns to shareholders delivered by the Group in recent years, the executive directors have not received 
maximum bonuses in any of the last four years as evidenced by the chart below.
Year 2009 2008 2007 2006
Growth in underlying EPS
1
 33% 43% 56% 53%
Return to shareholders in year 70% -23% 41% 145%
Executive D J Price P A Rayner D J Price P A Rayner D J Price P A Rayner D J Price P A Rayner
Maximum bonus potential (% of salary) 100% 60% 60% 60%
Bonus paid (% of salary) 94.13% 94.38% 52.1% 54.3% 46.1% 44.6% 58.5% 58.5%
1 
Source: Statutory accounts for the years ended 31 October 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006
The basic structure of the bonus scheme will remain unchanged for the current financial year, namely with a maximum bonus potential 
of 100% of base salary. However, in order to reflect emerging best practice, the proportion of any bonus earned by the executive 
directors to be satisfied by the award of deferred shares will increase from 25% to 40%. Bonuses will continue to be determined by 
a mixture of earnings per share, cash flow and personal objectives. Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
42
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued
Long term incentives
Performance share plan
The Company operates the Chemring Group Performance Share Plan for the executive directors and other key members of the senior 
management team who influence the performance and prospects of the Group. The key features of the plan are currently as follows:
• conditional awards can be made of the Company’s shares worth no more than 100% of base salary each year;
• awards will vest three years after grant subject to the extent to which a demanding performance condition has been achieved over a single 
three year performance period (with no ability to re-test the performance condition). The performance condition is based on the growth of 
the Company’s earnings per share in excess of RPI over three consecutive financial years. The Committee considers an earnings per share 
condition to most closely align the interests of participants with those of the Company’s shareholders;
• the vesting schedules for awards granted to date are as follows:
Total earnings per share growth per annum  
(not compounded) over three financial years
Threshold vesting Full vesting
Awards made prior to 23 January 2007 RPI +5% (33% vests) RPI+15%
Awards made on 24 January 2007 RPI +7.5% (33% vests) RPI+20%
Awards made on or after 23 January 2008 RPI +10% (25% vests) RPI+30%
No shares vest for growth below the threshold vesting target. Vesting is calculated on a straight-line basis for growth between the 
threshold and full vesting targets;
• earnings per share is calculated on a fully diluted and normalised basis, as specified by the Committee prior to grant; and
• market purchase shares or new issue shares (including treasury shares) may be used to satisfy awards. To the extent that new issue 
shares or treasury shares are used, these will count towards the usual share usage dilution limits (10% in ten years for all schemes 
and 5% in ten years for discretionary (executive) schemes).
Participation in the plan is extended at the discretion of the Committee to the executive directors and senior management of the Group, 
both in the UK and overseas. The following awards were made under the plan during the year:
Date of award
Total number of  
shares awarded
Number of participants 
receiving awards
21 January 2009 150,404 31
24 June 2009 12,653 3
Total 163,057 34
Details of the awards made to executive directors during the year are set out on page 46. 
The Committee remains committed to ensuring that it offers a suitably attractive pay package to its senior executives, aligned to 
shareholders’ interests through the use of significant levels of potential variable pay triggered by exceptional levels of performance. 
The performance share plan was originally introduced when the Company was a Small Cap company and the maximum award level was 
set accordingly. As an established FTSE 250 company, the existing maximum award of 100% of base salary is now below market norms, 
and the Board will therefore be seeking shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on 17 March 2010 for an increase in the 
potential maximum level of future awards under the plan as follows:
• in normal circumstances, to permit maximum awards over shares worth up to 150% of base salary for an individual; and
• in exceptional circumstances, such as on recruitment, to permit maximum awards over shares worth up to 200% of base salary.
If these changes are approved, the initial grant policy will be for no awards worth more than 125% of base salary to be made in normal 
circumstances. Any proposed change from this policy in future years will be disclosed by the Committee in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
43
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
In considering the performance condition for awards which will be made in 2010, the Committee has considered the forward prospects for 
the defence industry around the world in the context of possible tightening of Government budgets caused by the recent financial crisis, 
whilst acknowledging that the outlook for the Group remains good. As a consequence, it is intended that the target for full vesting of 
awards worth up to 100% of salary will reduce marginally to RPI+25%. However, the Committee will continue to use a target of RPI+30% 
for full vesting of any award made above the existing 100% of base salary limit. The following vesting schedule will therefore apply for 
awards made in 2010: 
Total earnings per share growth per annum  
(not compounded) over three financial years
Percentage of the total number of shares 
under an award that vest
Less than RPI + 10% Nil
RPI + 10% 25%
RPI + 25% 100% (for awards of up to 100% of base salary)
RPI + 30% 100% (for awards of up to 125% of base salary)
These targets remain among the most demanding performance criteria anywhere and reflect the Committee’s ongoing commitment to setting 
appropriately challenging targets for executives to pursue. 
The Committee reviews, from time to time, the basis of the performance condition but continues to believe that the earnings per share 
metric mostly closely aligns the interests of executives and shareholders, and therefore remains an appropriate metric for the Group. 
During the year under review, the Company purchased 78,301 (2008: 160,000) treasury shares at a cost of £1.5 million for use in the plan. 
115,170 shares were transferred from treasury to participants in the plan during the year on vesting of the award made on 23 March 2006. 
The executive directors are expected to build-up, over a five year period following appointment, and maintain a shareholding in the 
Company equivalent to one year’s base salary. Both of the executive directors currently hold shares significantly in excess of this 
requirement. Other participants in the plan are expected to retain a shareholding equivalent to 25% of their basic salary following vesting 
of the awards. 
Other schemes
The Company operates all-employee savings-related share schemes in the UK (the Chemring Group 2008 Sharesave Plan) and the USA 
(the Chemring Group 2008 US Stock Purchase Plan). There are no performance criteria for these arrangements, and options are issued to 
all participants in accordance with UK HM Revenue and Customs and US Internal Revenue Service regulations. 
The Company previously operated a long term incentive scheme known as the Chemring Group PLC Share Based Incentive Scheme. 
This scheme is not being utilised at present.
The Company complies with the dilution guidelines contained within “Executive Remuneration – ABI Guidelines on Policies and Practices”. 
At 31 October 2009, awards outstanding and issued under all share schemes during the previous ten years amounted to 3.43% of the 
ordinary share capital of the Company. At 31 October 2009, awards outstanding and issued under executive share schemes during the 
previous ten years amounted to 3.17% of the ordinary share capital of the Company. 
Performance graph
The following graph shows a comparison of the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) over the last five financial years against a 
“broad equity market index”, as required by the Regulations. The FTSE 250 Index has been selected by the Committee for this comparison 
because it provides the most appropriate measure of performance of listed companies of a similar size to the Company.
0
800
700
600
500
400
Value (£)
300
200
100
31 Oct 04 31 Oct 05 31 Oct 06 31 Oct 07 31 Oct 08 31 Oct 09
170.2
417.4
172.7
198.8
110.6
161.4
588.6
428.3
726.2
125.3
100.0
Total shareholder return
Source: Thomson Reuters
Chemring Group PLC
FTSE 250 Index
This graph shows the value, by 31 October 2009, of £100 invested in Chemring Group PLC on 31 October 2004 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index. 
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends. Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
44
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued
Pensions
Dr Price is currently a member of the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme (the “Staff Scheme”). This is an approved final salary 
scheme, which is contracted out of the State Second Pension, and which provides, at retirement, a pension of up to two-thirds of salary, 
subject to Inland Revenue limits. The Staff Scheme also provides life assurance cover, dependants’ pensions and lump sum payments 
on death-in-service. Members of the Staff Scheme are required to make monthly contributions to the scheme at the rate of 8% of 
pensionable salary.
Dr Price’s pension under the Staff Scheme accrues at 1/80th of final pensionable salary for each year of membership, and he also accrues a 
cash lump sum at 3/80ths of final pensionable salary for each year of membership. On death-in-service, Dr Price’s dependants would receive a 
lump sum payment of two times base salary and, in addition, a 50% spouses’ pension would be payable. Dr Price is subject to an earnings cap 
(equivalent to the cap applied by HM Revenue and Customs prior to April 2006) in respect of his membership of the Staff Scheme.
Mr Rayner was a member of the Chemring Group Executive Pension Scheme until it merged with the Staff Scheme on 6 April 2009, at which 
time he became a member of the Staff Scheme. Mr Rayner’s benefits under the Staff Scheme accrue in an identical manner to that in which 
Dr Price accrues benefits under the Staff Scheme, as set out above, save that Mr Rayner is not contracted out of the State Second Pension and 
a two-thirds’ spouses pension is payable in respect of his service accrued to 31 January 2004, reducing to 50% for service accrued thereafter. 
Mr Rayner is also subject to an earnings cap. 
Both Dr Price and Mr Rayner have a normal retirement age of 65.
The Committee has previously referred to the fact that the current pension arrangements for the executive directors under the 
Staff Scheme (1/80ths accrual rate only as far as the notional earnings cap) are well below market norms, and as explained above, this 
is a contributory factor in the relatively low level of their overall fixed pay. The Committee has therefore agreed that with effect from 
1 April 2010, the executive directors will cease to participate in the Staff Scheme, and will instead, for all future service, receive a salary 
supplement of 20% of base salary. 
Service contracts
Dr Price has a rolling service contract dated 4 April 2005. This provides for termination by either party on twelve months’ notice. 
The Company may however terminate without notice, and make a payment in lieu of notice equal to the sum of the salary due for 
the unexpired notice period plus the fair value of any contractual benefits. Any such sum may be paid in instalments, and in these 
circumstances there is a requirement to mitigate loss.
Mr Rayner has a rolling service contract dated 27 August 1999. This provides for termination by either party on twelve months’ notice. 
The Company may however terminate without notice and make a payment in lieu of notice equal to the sum of twelve months’ salary plus 
the value of any contractual benefits. There are no other provisions relating to compensation on early termination.
It is the Committee’s general policy that all new executive directors appointed in the future will have service contracts with the Company 
which are terminable on a maximum of twelve months’ notice. The service contracts will contain provisions permitting the Company to 
make any termination payments by instalments, and will require directors to mitigate their loss in such circumstances.
Policy on outside appointments
With the specific approval of the Board in each case, executive directors may accept external appointments as non-executive directors of 
other companies, provided that they do not detract from their responsibilities to the Group, and may retain any related fees paid to them. 
Neither of the executive directors currently holds any such external appointments.
Non‑ executive directors
Mr Scobie has a service contract with the Company which will expire at the conclusion of the Company’s Annual General Meeting in 
March 2010. The Board has previously announced that it has commenced the search for Mr Scobie’s successor when he retires, and his 
current contract will therefore be extended on a rolling-basis until a successor is appointed. Mr Scobie’s remuneration under the contract, 
part of which is paid to his company for consultancy services, is £131,250 per annum. He is required to devote such time to his role as is 
reasonably necessary for the proper performance of his duties. 
Mr Evans, The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss have letters of appointment covering, amongst other 
items, their terms of appointment and expected time commitment. These letters of appointment provide for three year appointments, 
unless terminated earlier by and at the discretion of either party upon three months’ written notice. The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much 
and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss are currently serving their second three year terms as non-executive directors, which will expire on 
25 May 2012, 30 November 2010 and 30 April 2010 respectively. Mr Evans’ current three year appointment as a non-executive director 
will terminate on 30 March 2012. 
The basic fee payable to each of the four non-executive directors is £42,000 per annum. The Rt Hon Lord Freeman and Mr Much each 
receive an additional fee of £7,000 per annum, in respect of their Chairmanship of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee 
respectively. During the year Mr Much was appointed as the Senior Independent Director but he receives no additional fee for this role.
Fees for the non-executive directors are determined annually by the Board, having regard to the practice of other companies and the 
particular demands of the Group.
The Company provides private medical insurance for Mr Scobie, Mr Evans and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss, and their respective spouses.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the Company’s pension, bonus or share-based incentive schemes. However, Mr Evans does 
receive a pension from the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme, which he accrued during his former employment with the Company.  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
45
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
AUDITED INFORMATION
Directors’ emoluments
The emoluments of all the directors who served during the year are shown below:
Salaries and fees
Bonuses (cash and  
deferred shares) Taxable benefits Total
2009 
£000
2008 
£000
2009 
£000
2008 
£000
2009 
£000
2008 
£000
2009 
£000
2008 
£000
Executives
D J Price 412 379 396 208 36 31 844 618
P A Rayner 257 238 248 136 20 19 525 393
Non‑ executives
D R Evans 41 38 - - 1 1 42 39
R N Freeman 48 43 - - - - 48 43
I F R Much 48 43 - - - - 48 43
P C Norriss 41 38 - - 1 1 42 39
K C Scobie 129 123 - - 3 3 132 126
Total remuneration 976 902 644 344 61 55 1,681 1,301
Amounts shown above in the salaries and fees column relate to base salary in the case of executive directors and fees in the case of 
non-executive directors.
Mr Scobie’s remuneration includes payments to his company, K C Scobie Limited, in respect of his consultancy services. 
Directors’ share interests
The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company at 1 November 2008 and 31 October 2009 are shown below. 
All are beneficial holdings.
2009 
Number
2008 
Number
D R Evans 15,000 15,000
R N Freeman 350 350
I F R Much 3,000 3,000
P C Norriss 5,400 5,400
D J Price 110,867 97,698
P A Rayner 35,000 30,500
K C Scobie 220,173 216,173
The directors’ share interests at 31 October 2009 include shares held by the directors’ adult children, as required by the Companies Act 2006. 
During November 2009 and prior to the start of the Company’s close period, Mr Much purchased an additional 2,300 ordinary shares. 
No other movements have taken place between 31 October 2009 and 19 January 2010. Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
46
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued
Performance share plan
Details of awards made to the executive directors under the Chemring Group Performance Share Plan during the year are shown below.
Number of shares under award
At 1 Nov 2008
Awarded during 
the year
Lapsed during  
the year
Vested during  
the year At 31 Oct 2009 Date of vesting
Share price on  
date of award (p)
D J Price 22,321 - - (22,321)* - 23 Mar 2009 1,136
17,543 - - - 17,543 24 Jan 2010 1,730
18,004 - - - 18,004 23 Jan 2011 1,895
- 20,000 - - 20,000 21 Jan 2012 2,031
57,868 20,000 - (22,321) 55,547
P A Rayner 14,285 - - (14,285)* - 23 Mar 2009 1,136
11,111 - - - 11,111 24 Jan 2010 1,730
11,316 - - - 11,316 23 Jan 2011 1,895
- 12,500 - - 12,500 21 Jan 2012 2,031
36,712 12,500 - (14,285) 34,927
*Awards granted on 23 March 2006 vested in full during the year, as the maximum earnings per share growth target was achieved. The share 
price on the date of vesting was 2,055p. The value of the vested award, and therefore the gain on vesting, to Dr D J Price was £458,697 and to 
Mr P A Rayner was £293,557.
Awards were granted during the year on 21 January 2009. 25% of the shares under award will vest if earnings per share growth is RPI+10% p.a. 
over the three year performance period, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for growth of at least RPI+30% p.a.
Share options
None of the directors held any share options granted under the Chemring 1998 Executive Share Option Scheme at 1 November 2008 and 31 October 2009. 
The holdings by the directors of share options granted under the Chemring Group 2008 UK Sharesave Plan at 1 November 2008 and 
31 October 2009 are shown below.
Number of share options
At 1 Nov 2008
Granted  
during  
the year
Lapsed  
during  
the year
Exercised 
during 
the year At 31 Oct 2009
Exercise 
price(p)
Market price 
at date of 
exercise (p)
Date from 
which 
exercisable Expiry date
D J Price 503 - - - 503 1,868 - 1 Oct 2011 1 Apr 2012
P A Rayner 871 - - - 871 1,868 - 1 Oct 2013 1 Apr 2014
The market price of the ordinary shares at 31 October 2009 was 2,645p. During the year, the ordinary shares traded within the range 1,604p to 2,645p.
Deferred shares
Details of awards of deferred shares made to the executive directors under the annual performance-related bonus plan are set out below 
(the values of these shares at award are included in the bonus figures in the directors’ emoluments table):
Number of deferred shares under award
At 1 Nov 2008
Awarded during 
the year
Lapsed during  
the year
Vested during  
the year At 31 Oct 2009 Date of vesting
Share price on  
date of award (p)
D J Price 2,566 - - - 2,566 16 Jan 2010 1,710
2,074 - - - 2,074 10 Jan 2011 1,944
- 2,603 - - 2,603 13 Jan 2012 2,000
4,640 2,603 - - 7,243
P A Rayner 1,625 - - - 1,625 16 Jan 2010 1,710
1,261 - - - 1,261 10 Jan 2011 1,944
- 1,697 - - 1,697 13 Jan 2012 2,000
2,886 1,697 - - 4,583 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
47
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Pensions
The following table sets out the pension benefits accrued by the directors during the year.
Total benefit accrued at 
31 Oct 2008
Transfer 
value of 
accrued 
benefit at 
31 Oct 2008
Increase in accrued benefit 
during year 
Total benefit accrued at 
31 Oct 2009
Transfer 
value of 
accrued 
benefit at 
31 Oct 2009 
Transfer value 
of increase 
in accrued 
benefit (less 
members’ 
contributions)
Increase in 
transfer value 
during year 
(less 
members’ 
contributions)
Pension 
(£p.a.)
Cash  
(£) (£)
Pension 
(£p.a.)
Cash  
(£)
Pension 
(£p.a.)
Cash  
(£) (£) (£) (£)
D J Price 5,145 15,435 60,693 1,808 5,423 6,953 20,858 106,648 16,586 36,307
P A Rayner 21,192 63,577 254,281 2,627 7,879 23,819 71,456 393,325 20,387 129,396
i) Zero inflation has been assumed for the purpose of the above.
ii) Transfer values represent liabilities of the applicable scheme, and do not represent sums paid to the individuals.
iii)Transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with actuarial professional guidance. 
Approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Report
The Directors’ Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on 19 January 2010.
Signed on behalf of the Board
I F R Much
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
48
This statement sets out how the Company has applied the main 
and supporting principles of good governance set out in Section 1 
of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in 
2008 by the Financial Reporting Council (“the Combined Code”). 
Throughout the year ended 31 October 2009, the Company has 
been in compliance with the code provisions set out in Section 1 
of the Combined Code, with the sole exception that the Board only 
appointed a Senior Independent Director part way through the year 
(provision A.3.3).
The Board
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, 
the Finance Director and four non-executive directors. The Board 
considers that three of the current non-executive directors,  
The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss, 
are independent in character and judgment, and meet the criteria 
for independence set out in the Combined Code. The directors’ 
biographical details are set out on page 34 and 35. 
The Board, which meets at least ten times a year, approves the 
Group’s long-term goals and strategies and provides overall 
financial and organisational control. The Board has a formal 
schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for consideration 
and approval, including: approval of the Group’s corporate plan; 
approval of the annual operating budgets; acquisitions, disposals 
and major capital expenditure; financing and treasury; pensions; 
ethical policies; health and safety strategy; reviewing the Group’s 
systems of financial control and risk management; approving 
appointments to the Board and approving policies relating to 
directors’ remuneration; and maintaining an effective dialogue 
with shareholders. All directors take decisions objectively in the 
interests of the Company.
The Board delegates certain responsibilities to the Executive 
Committee, including: implementation of the Group’s strategies 
and policies as determined by the Board; monitoring of operational 
and financial results against budget; allocation of resources across 
the Group within the overall plan approved by the Board; capital 
expenditure within limits imposed by the Board; and developing 
and implementing risk management systems. Further details of 
the Executive Committee are set out in the section of this report 
covering Board Committees.
Procedures are in place covering the content, presentation and 
timely delivery of papers to the Board for each Board meeting, to 
ensure that directors have sufficient information to make expedient 
and considered decisions in fulfilment of their fiduciary duties. 
Where directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the 
running of the Company or a proposed action, such concerns are 
recorded in the Board minutes.
Each director has full access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary who, under the direction of the Chairman, 
is responsible for maintaining good information flows within 
the Board and its committees, assisting with induction and 
keeping the directors informed about changes to their duties and 
responsibilities, and advising the Board on all governance matters. 
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a 
matter for the Board as a whole.
All directors are entitled to take independent professional advice 
in furtherance of their duties at the Company’s expense, if the 
need should arise.
An internal induction programme on the Group’s operations and 
its strategic and business plans is provided for newly-appointed 
directors. The Company Secretary also provides detailed 
information on directors’ legal duties and responsibilities on 
appointment, and updates the Board on a regular basis with 
regards to regulatory changes affecting the directors and the 
Group’s operations generally. Directors are continually updated 
on the Group’s businesses and the matters affecting the market 
in which they operate. The Company meets the cost of appropriate 
external training for directors, the requirement for which is kept 
under review by the Chairman. 
The Company separates the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive 
in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code. 
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the 
Chief Executive, and their respective job descriptions, are set out 
in writing and agreed by the Board.
In addition to chairing the Board, the Chairman is responsible for: 
ensuring that the Board is kept properly informed and is consulted on 
all decisions reserved to it; promoting constructive relations between 
the executive and non-executive directors; ensuring that the 
development needs of directors are identified and the performance 
of the Board evaluated on a regular basis; and ensuring effective 
communication with shareholders and acting as a conduit to ensure 
that the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board. 
The Chairman has no significant business commitments other than 
his chairmanship of the Company.
The non-executive directors perform an essential role in 
safeguarding shareholders’ interests. They actively participate 
in the development of strategic objectives and monitor the 
performance of executive management in achieving these 
objectives. The non-executive directors also review financial 
performance, and consider the integrity of the financial information 
produced by the Group and whether the financial controls and 
risk management systems are robust and defensible. They meet 
periodically with the management of the Group’s operating 
companies. In addition to participating in Board meetings, the 
three independent non-executive directors are the members of the 
standing committees set up to deal with audit and the remuneration 
of executive directors and senior management. The Board 
considers that the current balance of executive and non-executive 
influence which exists is appropriate for the Company, taking into 
account its size and status.
With the increase in size of the Group and its position in the FTSE 250, 
the Board decided during the year that it was an appropriate time to 
appoint a Senior Independent Director. Mr Much assumed this role.
During the financial year, the Chairman met regularly with the 
non-executive directors without the executives present.
Mr Evans, The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much and Air Marshal 
Sir Peter Norriss all have letters of appointment covering, amongst 
other items, their terms of appointment and expected time 
commitment. These letters of appointment provide for a three year 
appointment, unless terminated earlier by and at the discretion of 
either party upon three months’ written notice. The non-executive 
directors’ letters of appointment are available for inspection on 
request to the Company Secretary.
In accordance with the Combined Code and the Company’s Articles 
of Association, all directors submit themselves for re-election every 
three years. The Chairman offers himself for re-election annually, 
having passed the age of seventy and having served for more than 
nine years as a non-executive director. 
Statement on Corporate Governance Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
49
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The papers accompanying the Notice of Annual General Meeting 
include a statement from the Chairman confirming that the 
performance of each non-executive director seeking re-election at 
the meeting continues to be effective and that each such director 
continues to demonstrate commitment to their role.
An evaluation of the current performance of the Board and its 
committees, and an assessment of the future requirements, was 
undertaken during the year, as part of the succession planning for 
the Chairman’s retirement. This encompassed a review, by all of the 
directors, of the strengths and weaknesses of the current Board, 
from which a profile was drawn up for the successor to the current 
Chairman. The external search consultancy retained to recruit 
the Chairman’s successor assisted in this process. In addition, the 
Chairman and the non-executive directors considered the individual 
performance of the Chief Executive and the Finance Director as 
part of the annual remuneration review. Similarly, the performance 
of the Chairman was considered by the non-executive directors 
during the annual review of his remuneration, and the Chairman 
and the Chief Executive reviewed the performance of the 
non-executive directors. No significant issues were identified. 
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance 
in respect of legal action against its directors. 
Meetings attendance
The following table shows the attendance of directors, who served 
during the year, at meetings of the Board, the Audit Committee, the 
Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee:
Board 
(12 meetings)
Audit 
Committee 
(3 meetings)
Nomination 
Committee 
(0 meetings)
Remuneration 
Committee 
(6 meetings)
K C Scobie 12(12) - - 4(4)
D R Evans 12(12) - - -
The Rt Hon 
Lord Freeman 12(12) 3(3) - 6(6)
I F R Much 12(12) 3(3) - 6(6)
Air Marshal Sir 
Peter Norriss 12(12) 3(3) - 6(6)
D J Price 12(12) - - -
P A Rayner 12(12) - - -
The maximum number of meetings which each director could have attended is shown 
in brackets. 
Board committees
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the Nomination 
Committee and the Remuneration Committee are posted on 
the Company’s website and are available on request from the 
Company Secretary.
Audit Committee
The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss 
all served as members of the Audit Committee during the year. 
The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, who is a chartered accountant, is 
Chairman of the Committee; his full biographical details are set 
out on page 35. The Committee met three times during the year 
and operates within formal written terms of reference. As referred 
to above, the terms of reference are available on the Company’s 
website. Meetings of the Committee are attended, at the invitation 
of the Committee, by the external auditors, the Chairman, the 
Finance Director and representatives from the Group finance and 
internal audit function. The Committee meets with the auditors on a 
regular basis without the executive directors present. The Company 
Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and minutes of 
meetings are circulated to all Board members.
The Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires 
from any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties, 
and to obtain any outside legal or other professional advice it 
requires at the Company’s expense.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the Group’s financial 
statements and the effectiveness of the external audit process. 
It is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship 
between the Group and the external auditors is maintained, 
including reviewing non-audit services and fees. The Committee 
keeps under review the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
controls and financial risk management systems, and on an annual 
basis, considers the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit 
function. The Committee reviews annually its terms of reference 
and its effectiveness, and recommends to the Board any changes 
required as the result of such review.
During the year, the Committee, operating under its terms of 
reference, discharged its responsibilities by:
• reviewing the Group’s draft 2008 financial statements and 2009 
interim results statement prior to Board approval, and reviewing 
the external auditors’ detailed reports thereon;
• reviewing the appropriateness of the Group’s accounting policies, 
and reviewing various accounting matters raised by management 
and the external auditors in the context of financial disclosures;
• considering and approving changes to the Group’s accounting 
policy manual;
• reviewing the potential impact in the Group’s financial 
statements of certain matters such as impairments of fixed asset 
values and the adoption of new accounting standards;
• reviewing the external auditors’ plan for the 2009 interim review 
and the 2009 year end audit, including reviewing the key risks 
on the accounts, confirmation of auditor independence and the 
proposed audit fee, and approving the terms of engagement for 
the audit; 
• receiving reports from the Risk Committee and reviewing the 
Group’s risk register;
• reviewing the Group’s commission policy and arrangements 
with agents;
• reviewing changes to the corporate structure of the Group 
and the associated tax implications;
• monitoring the Group’s key financial ratios and credit ratings; 
• overseeing the application of the Group’s whistleblowing policy 
and procedures for employees; 
• reviewing the work undertaken by the Group’s internal audit 
function, assessing the adequacy of the internal audit resource 
and recommending changes for increasing the scope of the 
internal audit activities; and
• implementing the Group’s policy on the provision of non-audit 
services by the auditors, taking into account relevant guidance 
and best practice.
The Group’s internal audit programme incorporates an annual 
rolling review of all businesses, and focuses on both financial and 
non-financial controls and procedures. Newly acquired businesses 
are subjected to a detailed review by the internal audit function 
immediately post-completion. The Committee approves the annual 
internal audit plan and receives regular reports from the internal 
auditors. The Group’s internal audit function in the US will be 
strengthened in 2010.  Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
50
The Committee has considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of 
the current auditors from the market and noted that there are no 
contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditors.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the 
Committee reviewed:
• the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors’ 
independence and objectivity;
• the external auditors’ fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and any 
variations from the plan;
• the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their 
handling of the key accounting and audit judgements; and
• the content of the external auditors’ reporting and internal control.
Following the above, the Committee has recommended to the Board 
that Deloitte LLP be proposed for re-appointment as auditors at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Committee keeps under review the level of any non-audit services 
which are provided by the external auditors, to ensure that this does 
not impair their independence and objectivity. The Committee has 
adopted a policy which states that the external auditors should not 
be appointed to provide services in relation to corporate finance 
matters, unless the Committee agrees that their appointment would 
be in the best interests of the Company’s shareholders in particular 
circumstances and would not create any direct conflict with their role 
as external auditors. The Committee, in conjunction with the Finance 
Director, ensures that the Group maintains a sufficient choice of 
appropriately qualified audit firms. Details of the amounts paid to the 
external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set 
out in the notes to the financial statements on page 65.
Nomination Committee
Mr Scobie, Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss all served on 
the Nomination Committee during the year. Mr Scobie is Chairman 
of the Committee but, in accordance with the Committee’s terms of 
reference, is not permitted to chair meetings when the Committee 
is dealing with the appointment of his successor. As referred to 
above, the Committee’s terms of reference are available on the 
Company’s website.
With regards to the recruitment and appointment of new directors 
to the Board, the Committee considers the specific knowledge and 
expertise which would be of benefit to the Group’s current operations 
and future strategy, and provides a brief to external search agents 
based upon its conclusions. The search agents put forward a short 
list of candidates for the Committee to interview before making its 
recommendations to the Board. The Board interviews preferred 
candidates prior to making any formal offers of appointment. 
Following the year end, the Committee appointed an external search 
consultancy to recruit a successor for Mr Scobie when he retires. 
A detailed brief for the new appointment, including an assessment 
of the time commitment expected, has been prepared in consultation 
with all of the Board members, and the identification of potential 
candidates is now underway. Dr Price has been temporarily appointed 
to the Committee to assist specifically with the recruitment of the 
new Chairman. 
Remuneration Committee
The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much, and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss 
all served on the Remuneration Committee throughout the year. 
Mr Scobie stepped down from the Committee on 25 March 2009. 
Mr Much is Chairman of the Committee. The Committee met six times  
during the year. 
Further details on the Committee, the Company’s policy on directors’ 
remuneration and long term incentive schemes are included within 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Executive Committee
The Chief Executive, Dr Price, chairs the Executive Committee, 
which meets monthly. The other members are the Finance Director, 
the Company Secretary, the Business Development Director, 
the Group Director of Safety, and the three Divisional Managing 
Directors. The Executive Committee is responsible for the executive 
day-to-day running of the Company, submission to the Board 
of strategic plans and budgets for the Group’s operations, and 
monitoring the day-to-day performance of the Group as a whole.
Relations with shareholders
The Company maintains an active dialogue with institutional 
shareholders through regular briefing meetings and formal 
presentations following the release of interim and annual results. 
Meetings are usually attended by the Chairman, the Chief Executive 
and the Finance Director. However, the non-executive directors 
are offered the opportunity to meet with major shareholders and 
attend meetings if so requested by major shareholders. No such 
requests were received during the year. Communication with 
private investors is achieved largely through the medium of the 
interim report and the financial statements.
The Company’s website (www.chemring.co.uk) provides financial 
and business information on the Group.
The directors are provided with reports and other written briefings 
from the Company’s principal shareholders and analysts, and are 
regularly informed by the Company Secretary about changes to 
significant shareholdings.
It is the Company’s policy that all directors should attend and make 
themselves available to take questions from shareholders or address 
any concerns at the Annual General Meeting. At other times of the 
year, the directors can be contacted via the Company’s head office.
All substantial issues, including the adoption of the annual report 
and financial statements, are proposed on separate resolutions at 
the Annual General Meeting. The number of proxy votes received 
for and against each resolution, together with the number of 
abstentions, are indicated after votes have been dealt with on a 
show of hands, and are posted on the Company’s website following 
the meeting. The Notice of Annual General Meeting is sent to 
shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting.
Financial reporting
The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the 
financial statements and accounting records maintained by the 
Company is set out on page 38.
Internal control and risk management
The Board has continued to review the effectiveness of the Group’s 
systems of internal control, including financial, operational and 
compliance controls, and risk management systems.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Group’s systems 
of internal control and attaches considerable importance to these 
systems, which are designed to meet the Group’s particular needs 
and identify those risks to which it is exposed. However, the systems 
can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement, loss or mismanagement of the Group’s assets.
Statement on Corporate Governance
continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
51
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
In carrying out its review of the effectiveness of the Group’s 
systems of internal control in compliance with provision C2.1 of 
the Combined Code, the Board has taken into consideration the 
following key features of the Group’s risk management systems 
and control procedures which operated during the year:
• The Board assesses the key risks associated with achievement of the 
Group’s business objectives as part of the annual strategic planning 
process. Out of this process, each business establishes a five year 
plan and annual budget, which are subject to approval by the 
Board. The performance of each business against budget and prior 
years is reviewed on a monthly basis at both operational level and 
by the Board. Achievement of strategic business objectives and the 
associated risks are monitored by the Board on an ongoing basis.
• All businesses hold monthly operating meetings, which are attended 
by the respective Divisional Managing Directors. In addition, 
the Chief Executive and the Finance Director attend operational 
and strategic review meetings with each of the businesses on a 
quarterly basis. In the case of the US businesses, formal Board 
meetings are held quarterly, and these are attended by main Board 
directors and external non-executive directors appointed in the US. 
The US non-executive directors are available to provide guidance 
and monitor governance in the US businesses throughout the year. 
External non-executive directors are also appointed to the Boards 
of the Group’s Italian and Australian subsidiaries.
• Each business is required to comply with the Group’s 
accounting policy manual, which sets out formal procedures for 
incurring certain types of expenditure and making contractual 
commitments. Compliance with the accounting policy manual 
is audited by the internal auditors, who report regularly to the 
Audit Committee on their findings.
• The Board retains primary responsibility for acquisitions 
and disposals, and financing arrangements for the Group. 
Treasury management, IT strategy, insurance and significant 
legal matters are dealt with centrally from the Group head 
office, and the Board receives regular reports on each of these 
items. Reviews of the Group’s pensions, insurance and risk 
management arrangements are carried out by external advisors 
on a regular basis.
• The Group Director of Safety, supported by divisional Health and 
Safety Management Committees, co-ordinates and controls the 
activities of each business in relation to health and safety and 
environmental matters, which are a key focus for the Board in 
view of the nature of the Group’s operations. The Chief Executive 
is the Board member nominated with specific responsibility for 
health and safety. The Chief Executive meets formally with health 
and safety professionals from each business on an annual basis.
• The Group has committed to adherence with the European 
Aerospace and Defence Association’s Common Industry 
Standards on Anti-Corruption, and has reviewed and updated its 
business policies and procedures to ensure compliance. 
The Group’s Risk Management Committee meets on a quarterly basis. 
The Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Company Secretary, 
the Business Development Director, the Group Director of Safety, 
and the three Divisional Managing Directors serve on the Committee. 
The Committee reviews the key risks associated with the achievement 
of the annual budget and the five year plan for each business, and 
the risk control procedures implemented. It also considers the top 
five health and safety risks which have been identified at each site 
and agrees the action plan to address these. The Risk Management 
Committee reports biannually to the Audit Committee and the Board 
on the top ten risks from a Group perspective, and monitors the 
actions being taken to mitigate these.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the 
Group’s systems of internal control and risk management which 
were in place during the financial year ended 31 October 2009, and 
it confirms that systems of internal control and risk management 
compliant with the Combined Code and the Turnbull Guidance were 
in place throughout the year and have remained in place up to the 
date of approval of these financial statements. Notwithstanding 
this, the Board will continue to take steps to embed internal control 
and risk management further into the operations of the Group and 
to deal with any areas of improvement which come to the attention 
of management and the Board.
Procedures to deal with directors’ 
conflicts of interest
All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 (the 
‘2006 Act’) to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can 
have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may 
conflict with the interests of the Company. The Company’s Articles 
of Association were amended during the year to incorporate 
provisions for dealing with directors’ conflicts of interest in 
accordance with the 2006 Act. The Company has procedures in 
place to deal with situations where directors may have any such 
conflicts, which require the Board to:
• consider each conflict situation separately on its particular facts;
• consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest of their 
duties under the 2006 Act;
• keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations granted by 
directors and the scope of any approvals given; and
• regularly review conflict authorisation.
Going concern
The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on going 
concern. They have made appropriate enquiries and taken into 
account factors, which are further detailed in the Review by the 
Finance Director, such as:
• the strong order book of £559.0 million as at the year end;
• the Group’s operating cash flow of £106.7 million during the year;
• the strong balance sheet at the year end of £273.6 million; and
• the Group’s available banking facilities, which amount to 
£106.9 million with maturities through to March 2012 (see Note 21 
of the financial statements).
The Group’s banking covenants were all met with a comfortable 
margin during the year, and the expectation is that this will 
continue. As a consequence, the Directors believe that the 
Company is well-placed to manage its risks. Details of how the 
Group manages its liquidity risk can be found in Note 24 of the 
financial statements.
The long term nature of the Group’s business, taken together with 
the Group’s forward order book, provide a satisfactory level of 
confidence to the Board in respect of trading in the year ahead.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 19 January 2010 
Signed on behalf of the Board
S L Ellard
Company Secretary Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
52
Independent Auditors’ Report to the 
Members of Chemring Group PLC
We have audited the Group financial statements of 
Chemring Group PLC for the year ended 31 October 2009 which 
comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated 
Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the 
related Notes 1 to 37. The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements 
is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent 
company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3, Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective responsibilities 
of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, 
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view. Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards 
for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate 
to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 
of the Group’s affairs as at 31 October 2009 and of the Group’s 
profit for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for 
the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required 
to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the directors’ statement contained within the Statement on 
Corporate Governance in relation to going concern; and
• the part of the Statement on Corporate Governance relating 
to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 
June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Other matters
We have reported separately on the parent company financial 
statements of Chemring Group PLC for the year ended and on the 
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described 
as having been audited.
Andrew Gordon (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
Southampton, United Kingdom
19 January 2010 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
53
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 October 2009
Note
2009
£m
2008
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue – continuing 458.3 354.2
  – acquired 45.6 -
Total revenue 4,5 503.9 354.2
Operating profit – continuing 98.0 68.4
  – acquired 9.9 -
Total operating profit 5,6 107.9 68.4
Operating profit is analysed as:
Underlying operating profit* 114.7 84.9
Goodwill adjustment arising from recognition of tax losses - (1.8)
Intangible amortisation arising from business combinations 14 (13.8) (6.0)
Gain/(loss) on fair value movements on derivatives 24 7.0 (8.7)
107.9 68.4
Share of post-tax results of associate 0.1 0.1
Finance income 8 0.7 1.8
Finance expense 9 (12.9) (12.6)
Profit before tax for the year 95.8 57.7
Profit before tax for the year is analysed as:
Underlying profit before tax* 102.6 74.2
Goodwill adjustment arising from recognition of tax losses - (1.8)
Intangible amortisation arising from business combinations 14 (13.8) (6.0)
Gain/(loss) on fair value movements on derivatives 24 7.0 (8.7)
95.8 57.7
Tax 10 (25.7) (16.5)
Profit after tax for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 28 70.1 41.2
Earnings per ordinary share 12
Underlying* 213p 160p
Basic 199p 123p
Diluted 197p 123p
* Before  goodwill adjustment arising from recognition of tax losses, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and gain/(loss) on fair value movements
on derivatives Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
54
Consolidated Statement of Recognised 
Income and Expense
for the year ended 31 October 2009
Note
2009
£m
2008
£m
Profit after tax for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 70.1 41.2
Other recognised income and expense
Losses on cash flow hedges (1.0) (3.8)
Movement on deferred tax relating to cash flow hedges 0.2 0.8
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (3.1) 24.8
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 34 (14.1) (0.1)
Movement on deferred tax relating to pension schemes 4.0 -
Current tax on items taken directly to equity (1.2) (0.6)
Deferred tax on items taken directly to equity 0.3 (4.2)
Total recognised income and expense for the year attributable to  
equity holders of the parent 29 55.2 58.1 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
55
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at 31 October 2009
Note

£m
2009
£m

£m
2008
£m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 13 149.5 128.8
Other intangible assets 14 90.4 85.0
Property, plant and equipment 15 135.0 110.4
Interest in associate 17 1.1 1.0
Deferred tax 26 17.7 9.7
393.7 334.9
Current assets
Inventories 18 96.9 89.1
Trade and other receivables 19 98.8 87.8
Cash and cash equivalents 20,24 61.3 69.6
Derivative financial instruments 24 0.4 -
257.4 246.5
Total assets 651.1 581.4
Current liabilities
Bank loans and overdrafts 21 (34.3) (19.7)
Obligations under finance leases 22 (0.5) (0.7)
Trade and other payables 23 (115.1) (108.5)
Short term provisions 25 (1.2) (1.5)
Current tax liabilities (14.6) (6.3)
Derivative financial instruments 24 (1.1) (8.1)
(166.8) (144.8)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 21 (148.3) (163.6)
Obligations under finance leases 22 (0.9) (2.2)
Trade and other payables 23 (1.8) (1.8)
Long term provisions 25 (5.2) (4.4)
Deferred tax 26 (22.6) (17.3)
Preference shares 27 (0.1) (0.1)
Retirement benefit obligations 34 (28.1) (13.6)
Derivative financial instruments 24 (3.7) (3.0)
(210.7) (206.0)
Total liabilities (377.5) (350.8)
Net assets 273.6 230.6
Equity
Share capital 27 1.8 1.8
Share premium account 28 120.3 119.8
Special capital reserve 28 12.9 12.9
Hedging reserve 28 (3.4) (2.6)
Revaluation reserve 28 1.4 1.5
Retained earnings 28 145.8 102.9
278.8 236.3
Own shares 30 (5.2) (5.7)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 273.6 230.6
Total equity 273.6 230.6
These financial statements of Chemring Group PLC (registered number 86662) were approved and authorised for issue by the 
Board of Directors on 19 January 2010.
Signed on behalf of the Board
D J Price   P A Rayner Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
56
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31 October 2009
Note
2009
£m
2008
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations A 106.7 83.7
Tax paid (18.7) (13.4)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 88.0 70.3
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends received from associate - 0.1
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 15 (33.4) (31.0)
Purchases of intangible assets 14 (4.8) (3.2)
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings (net of cash acquired) 33 (27.6) (68.2)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (65.8) (102.3)
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid (13.8) (9.3)
Interest paid (10.5) (8.2)
Proceeds on issue of shares 0.5 58.6
New borrowings 14.9 72.7
Repayments of borrowings (20.7) (36.4)
(Repayments of)/proceeds from finance leases (1.6) 0.4
Purchase of own shares 30 (1.5) (2.9)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities (32.7) 74.9
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents during the year (10.5) 42.9
Cash and cash equivalents at start of the year 69.6 25.4
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2.2 1.3
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 61.3 69.6 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
57
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Notes to the Consolidated  
Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31 October 2009
A. Cash generated from operations
2009
£m
2008
£m
Operating profit from continuing operations 98.0 68.4
Operating profit from acquired operations 9.9 -
Adjustment for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13.3 9.7
Impairment charge 1.1 -
Amortisation of intangible assets arising from business combinations 13.8 6.0
Amortisation of other intangibles 1.5 0.7
(Gain)/loss on fair value movements on derivatives (7.0) 8.7
Goodwill adjustment arising from recognition of tax losses - 1.8
Share-based payment expense 2.1 1.7
Difference between pension contributions paid and amount recognised in Income Statement 0.1 0.1
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 0.5 (2.2)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 133.3 94.9
Increase in inventories (8.4) (18.8)
Increase in trade and other receivables (10.0) (14.1)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (8.2) 21.7
Cash generated from operations 106.7 83.7
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents during the year (10.5) 42.9
Cash inflow/(outflow) from movement in debt and lease financing 7.5 (36.7)
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows (3.0) 6.2
New finance leases 0.5 0.8
Translation difference relating to loans (3.1) (23.6)
Amortisation of debt finance costs (0.5) (0.5)
Movement in net debt in the year (6.1) (17.1)
Net debt at start of the year (116.7) (99.6)
Net debt at end of the year (122.8) (116.7)
Analysis of net debt
As at 
1 Nov 2008 
£m
Cash
 flow
£m
Non-cash
changes
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
As at 
31 Oct 2009
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 69.6 (10.5) - 2.2 61.3
Debt due within one year (19.7) 5.8 (19.4) (1.0) (34.3)
Debt due after one year (163.6) - 19.4 (4.1) (148.3)
Finance leases (2.9) 1.7 - (0.2) (1.4)
Preference shares (0.1) - - - (0.1)
(116.7) (3.0) - (3.1) (122.8) Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
58
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
1. General information
Chemring Group PLC is a company incorporated in England and 
Wales under registration number 86662. The address of the 
registered office is Chemring House, 1500 Parkway, Whiteley, 
Fareham, Hampshire, PO15 7AF. The nature of the Group’s 
operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 5 and in 
the Directors’ Report on pages 36 to 38. These financial statements 
are the consolidated financial statements of Chemring Group PLC 
and its subsidiaries (“the Group”).
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling. 
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policy set 
out in Note 3 of the financial statements.
Going concern
The directors have, at the time of approving the financial 
statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting in preparing the financial statements. Further detail is 
contained in the Statement on Corporate Governance on page 51.
2. Adoption of new and revised standards
In the year under review two Interpretations issued by the 
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee 
were effective. These are IFRIC11 IFRS2 Group and Treasury Share 
Transactions and IFRIC14/IAS19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit 
Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction. 
The adoption of these Interpretations has not led to any changes in 
the Group’s accounting policies.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the 
following Standards and Interpretations, which have not been 
applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet 
effective, and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU:
• IFRS1 (amended)/IAS27 (amended) Cost of an Investment in a 
Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate (effective from 
1 July 2009)
• IFRS2 (amended) Share-based Payment – Vesting Conditions and 
Cancellations (effective from 1 July 2009)
• IFRS3 (revised 2008) Business Combinations (effective from 
1 July 2009)
• IFRS8 Operating Segments (effective from 1 January 2009)
• IAS1 (revised 2007) Presentation of Financial Statements 
(effective from 1 January 2009) 
• IAS27 (revised 2008) Consolidated and Separate Financial 
Statements (effective from 1 July 2009)
• IAS28 (revised 2008) Investments in Associates (effective from 
1 July 2009)
• IAS32 (amended)/IAS1 (amended) Puttable Financial Instruments 
and Obligations Arising on Liquidation (effective from 
1 January 2009)
• IFRIC12 Service Concession Arrangements (effective from 
1 January 2009)
• IFRIC15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate (effective 
from 1 January 2009)
• IFRIC16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation
• IFRIC17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners (effective from 
1 July 2009)
• IFRIC18 Transfers of Assets from Customers (effective from 
1 July 2009)
• Improvements to IFRS (May 2008)
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and 
Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the 
financial statements of the Group, except for:
• IFRS8 Operating Segments – Additional segment disclosures will 
be required.
• IFRS3 (revised 2008) Business Combinations – Transaction costs 
will be expensed for acquisitions on or after 1 November 2009.
• IAS1 (revised 2007) Presentation of Financial Statements – 
This will introduce a number of changes in the format and 
content of the financial statements.
The directors have opted to adopt the amended IAS23 Borrowing 
Costs early. The original adoption date is for accounting periods 
commencing on or after 1 January 2009. The early adoption in 
accordance with IAS23 is prospective and all significant projects 
since 1 November 2008 have had interest costs at the Group’s 
average cost of borrowing capitalised. In the year £0.4 million has 
been capitalised.
3. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRS adopted for use in the European Union. These will be those 
IAS, IFRS and related Interpretations (Standing Interpretations 
Committee (SIC)/International Financial Reporting Interpretations 
Committee (IFRIC) interpretations), subsequent amendments to 
those standards and related interpretations, future standards 
and related interpretations issued or adopted by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (IASB) that have been endorsed by 
the European Commission (collectively referred to as IFRS). These 
are subject to ongoing review and endorsement by the European 
Commission or possible amendment by interpretive guidance from 
the IASB and the IFRIC and are therefore still subject to change.
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group 
financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. 
The particular accounting policies adopted have been applied 
consistently throughout the current and previous year and are 
described below.
Accounting convention
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost 
convention, except for the revaluation of certain properties and 
financial instruments.
Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company 
and all of its subsidiaries. A subsidiary undertaking is an entity 
over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and 
operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its 
activities. The results of subsidiaries acquired are consolidated 
from the date on which control passes to the Group and the results 
of disposed subsidiaries are consolidated up to the date on which 
control passes from the Group.
All companies within the Group make up their financial statements 
to the same date. All intra-group transactions, balances, income 
and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated before the share of results of associates 
and before finance expense. Operating profit excludes the results of 
discontinued operations. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
59
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Revenue recognition
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received 
or receivable for deliveries made, work completed or services 
rendered during the year, net of discounts, VAT and other revenue 
related taxes. Revenue is recognised when title passes, or when 
the right to consideration, in exchange for performance, has been 
received. For bill and hold arrangements revenue is recognised 
when the risks and rewards are transferred to the customer, 
typically on formal acceptance. Service income is recognised over 
the life of the contract. An appropriate proportion of total long 
term contract value, based on the fair value of work performed, is 
included in revenue and an appropriate level of profit is taken based 
on the percentage completion method when the final outcome can 
be reliably assessed. Provision is made in full for foreseeable losses 
as soon as they are identified.
Investment income
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the 
shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
Acquisitions
On acquisition of a subsidiary, the cost is measured as the fair value 
of the consideration given plus any directly attributable costs. The 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary that meet 
the IFRS3 Business Combinations recognition criteria are measured 
at the fair value at the date of acquisition. Where cost exceeds 
fair value of the net assets acquired the difference is recorded 
as goodwill.
Where the fair value of the net assets exceeds the cost, the 
difference is recorded directly in the Income Statement. 
The accounting policies of subsidiaries are changed where 
necessary to be consistent with those of the Group.
Intangible assets
Goodwill
The purchased goodwill of the Group is regarded as having an 
indefinite useful economic life and, in accordance with IAS36 
Impairment of Assets, is not amortised but is subject to annual tests 
for impairment. In reviewing the carrying value of goodwill of the 
various businesses the Board has considered the separate plans and 
cash flows of these businesses consistent with the requirements of 
IAS36 and is satisfied that these demonstrate that no impairment 
has occurred in respect of continuing operations. Goodwill arising 
on acquisition before the date of transition to IFRS has been 
retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested 
for impairment at that date. On disposal of a subsidiary, associate 
or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is 
included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
For acquisitions after 1 November 2004 the Group recognises 
separately from goodwill intangible assets that are separable or 
arise from contractual or other legal rights and whose fair value 
can be measured reliably. These intangible assets are amortised 
on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives, averaging 
ten years.
Patents and trademarks
Patents and trademarks are measured initially at purchase cost 
and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated 
useful lives.
Property, plant and equipment
Other than historically revalued land and buildings, property, plant 
and equipment are held at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
any recognised impairment loss. Borrowing costs on significant 
capital expenditure projects since 1 November 2008 are capitalised 
and allocated to the cost of the project. No depreciation is provided 
on freehold land. On other assets depreciation is provided at rates 
calculated to write down their cost or valuation to their estimated 
residual values by equal instalments over their estimated useful 
economic lives, which are considered to be:
Freehold buildings  – up to 50 years
Leasehold buildings  – the period of the lease
Plant and equipment – 10 years
Impairment of non-current assets
Assets that have indefinite lives are tested for impairment annually. 
Assets that are subject to depreciation or amortisation are reviewed 
for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that 
the carrying value may not be recoverable. To the extent that the 
carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount an impairment 
loss is recorded for the difference as an expense in the Income 
Statement. The recoverable amount used for impairment testing is 
the higher of the value in use and its fair value less costs of disposal. 
For the purpose of impairment testing assets are grouped at the 
lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
Inventories
Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost represents materials, direct labour, other direct costs 
and related production overheads and is determined using the 
first-in first-out (FIFO) method. Net realisable value is based on 
estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to 
completion and disposal.
Provision is made for slow moving, obsolete and defective items 
where appropriate.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets 
that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for 
their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, 
until such time as the assets are subsequently ready for their 
intended use or sale.
To the extent that variable rate borrowings are used to finance a 
qualifying asset and are hedged in an effective cash flow hedge 
of interest rate risk, the effective portion of the derivative is 
recognised in the other comprehensive income and released to 
profit or loss when the qualifying asset impacts profit or loss. 
To the extent that fixed rate borrowings are used to finance a 
qualifying asset and are hedged in an effective fair value hedge 
of interest rate risk, the capitalised borrowing costs reflect the 
hedged interest rate.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific 
borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is 
deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the 
period in which they are incurred.
Government grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable 
assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching 
to them and that the grants will be received.
The benefit of a government loan at a below-market rate of interest 
is treated as a government grant, measured as the difference 
between proceeds received and the fair value of the loan based on 
prevailing market interest rates.
Government grants towards staff re-training costs are recognised 
as income over the periods necessary to match them with the 
related costs and are deducted in reporting the related expense. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
60
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
3. Accounting policies continued
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are 
treated as deferred income and released to the Income Statement 
over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned. 
Tax
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable 
and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. 
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income 
Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are 
taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items 
of income that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability 
for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is expected to be payable or recoverable on 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used 
in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the 
balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally 
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred 
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable taxable 
profits will be available in the future against which deductible 
temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are 
not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or 
from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) 
of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither 
the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and 
interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control 
the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the 
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
Balance Sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all 
or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset 
is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income 
Statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited 
directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with 
in equity.
Special capital reserve
The special capital reserve was created as part of a capital 
reduction scheme involving the cancellation of the share premium 
account which was approved by the Court in 1986, in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group company are 
presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in 
which it operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the 
consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position 
of each Group company are expressed in pounds sterling, which 
is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation 
currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, 
transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional 
currency (foreign currencies) are recorded at the rates of exchange 
prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each Balance Sheet 
date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in 
foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the 
Balance Sheet date. Non-monetary items carried at fair value 
that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the 
rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost 
in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, 
and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the 
profit or loss for the period.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, 
the Group enters into forward contracts and forward currency 
structures which are accounted for as derivative financial 
instruments (see below for details of the Group’s accounting 
policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments).
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, 
the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are 
translated at exchange rates prevailing on the Balance Sheet date. 
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange 
rates for the period. 
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s 
Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their 
nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand 
deposits, and other short term highly liquid investments that are 
readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an 
insignificant risk of change in value.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according 
to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An 
equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest 
in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption, and 
direct issue costs are accounted for on an accruals basis to the 
Income Statement using the effective interest method and are 
added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that 
they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their 
nominal value. 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks 
of interest rate and foreign currency transactions, and it uses 
derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to these 
transactional risks. The Group uses interest rate swap contracts, 
foreign exchange forward contracts and other forward currency 
structures to reduce these exposures and does not use derivative 
financial instruments for speculative purposes. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
61
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value at the 
date the derivative contract is entered into and are revalued at fair 
value at each Balance Sheet date. The method by which any gain or 
loss is recognised depends on whether the instrument is designated a 
hedging instrument or not. To be designated as a hedging instrument 
the instrument must be documented as such at inception and must be 
assessed at inception and on an ongoing basis to be highly effective 
in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Hedge accounting principles are used for foreign currency forward 
contracts (net investment hedge) and interest rate swaps (cash flow 
hedge) where movements in fair value are held in equity until such 
time as the underlying amounts of the contract mature. At maturity 
or disposal of the net investment the amounts held in equity will 
be recycled to the Income Statement. Changes in fair value of any 
ineffective portion of net investment hedges and interest rate 
swaps are recognised in the Income Statement immediately. The 
fair values of derivative financial instruments are calculated by 
independent third party valuers.
Where derivatives do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting 
the changes in fair value are immediately recognised in the 
Income Statement.
Embedded derivatives that are not closely related to the host 
contract are treated as separate derivatives, with unrealised gains 
and losses reported in the Income Statement.
Retirement benefit costs
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes 
are charged as an expense as they fall due. For defined benefit 
schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the 
projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being 
carried out at each Balance Sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses 
are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. They 
are recognised outside of the profit or loss and presented in the 
Statement of Recognised Income and Expense (SORIE).
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that 
the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on 
a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits 
become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Balance Sheet 
represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as 
adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the 
fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation 
is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available 
refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
Leased assets
Where the Group enters into a lease which entails taking 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset, 
the lease is treated as a finance lease. The asset is recorded in the 
Balance Sheet as property, plant and equipment and is depreciated 
over the shorter of the estimated useful economic life and the lease 
term. Future instalments under such leases, net of finance charges, 
are included in creditors. The finance element of the instalments is 
charged to the Income Statement at a constant rate of charge on 
the remaining balance of the obligation.
All other leases are operating leases and the rental charges are 
taken to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the life 
of the lease.
Share-based compensation
The Group operates equity settled and cash settled share-based 
compensation schemes.
For grants made under the Group’s share-based compensation 
schemes, the fair value is calculated at the grant date with 
changes in the fair value recognised in the Income Statement on 
a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s 
estimate of the shares that will eventually vest. The valuation of the 
options utilises a methodology based on the Black-Scholes model.
For equity settled share-based grants, the total amount recognised 
is based on the fair value of the equity instrument measured at the 
date the award is made. At each Balance Sheet date the impact 
of any revision to vesting estimates is recognised in the Income 
Statement over the vesting period. Proceeds received, net of any 
directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital 
and share premium.
For cash settled share-based grants, the total amount recognised is 
based on the fair value of the liability incurred. The fair value of the 
liability is re-measured at each Balance Sheet date with changes in 
the fair value recognised in the Income Statement for the period.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation 
(legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that 
the Group will be required to settle that obligation, and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of 
the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the 
Balance Sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties 
surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using 
the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its 
carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle 
a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a 
receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that 
reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable 
can be measured reliably.
Restructurings
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has 
developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has 
raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out 
the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing 
its main features to those affected by it. The measurement of 
a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures 
arising from the restructuring and not those associated with the 
ongoing activities of the entity.
Warranties
Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations under 
local sale of goods legislation are recognised at the date of sale 
of the relevant products, at the directors’ best estimate of the 
expenditure required to settle the Group’s obligation. 
Post balance sheet events
Following IAS10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, the Group 
continues to disclose events that it considers material and 
non-disclosure of which can influence the economic decisions of 
users of the financial statements.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of 
estimation uncertainty
When applying the Group’s accounting policies, management 
must make assumptions and estimates concerning the future 
that affect the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at the 
Balance Sheet date and the amounts of revenue and expenses 
recognised during the accounting period. Such assumptions and 
estimates are based upon factors such as historical experience, the 
observance of trends in the industries in which the Group operates, 
and information available from the Group’s customers and other 
outside sources. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
62
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
3. Accounting policies continued
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the Balance Sheet date that have a 
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year include:
Goodwill
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has 
been allocated. The value in use calculation requires the entity to determine such assets, to estimate the future cash flows expected to 
arise from the cash-generating unit and to determine a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value. 
Intangible assets acquired in business combinations
Under IFRS3 Business Combinations, it is necessary to separately identify and value any acquired intangible assets. In order to ascertain 
the values of the separate assets it is necessary for management to estimate the future cash flows attributable to the asset and estimate 
their useful economic lives. A deferred tax asset is recognised on acquisition when relevant.
Pensions
The liability recognised in relation to retirement benefit obligations is dependent on a number of assumptions, including discount rate, 
mortality rate, salary increases and inflation. Any change in these assumptions would change the amount recognised (see Note 34).
4. Revenue
All of the Group’s revenue is derived from the sale of goods and provision of services. The following table provides an analysis of the 
Group’s revenue by destination.
Revenue by destination
Continuing
 operations
2009
£m
Acquisitions
2009
£m
Total 
2009
£m
Total 
2008
£m
UK 125.2 - 125.2 86.4
USA 189.8 45.6 235.4 142.1
Europe 75.0 - 75.0 66.5
Australia and Far East 39.1 - 39.1 22.7
Middle East 20.4 - 20.4 31.5
Rest of the world 8.8 - 8.8 5.0
458.3 45.6 503.9 354.2
5. Business and geographical segments
For management purposes the Group has two operating divisions – Energetics and Countermeasures. These divisions are the basis on 
which it reports its primary segment information.
Principal activities are as follows:
Energetics Pyrotechnics: Signals and illumination devices and payloads; cartridge/propellant actuated 
devices; pyrotechnic devices for satellite launch and deployment.
Explosive ordnance disposal (EOD): Explosive ordnance disposal equipment; demilitarisation services; 
IED (improvised explosive device) detection equipment.
Munitions: Ammunition; missile components; propellants; warheads; fuzes and 
energetic materials.
Countermeasures Expendable countermeasures
A segmental analysis of revenue and operating profit is set out below:
Business segments
2009
£m
2008
£m
Revenue
Pyrotechnics 173.2 95.7
EOD 61.2 15.2
Munitions 86.0 85.8
Total Energetics 320.4 196.7
Countermeasures 183.5 157.5
Total revenue from third parties 503.9 354.2 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
63
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Analysis of operating profit
2009
£m
2008
£m
Pyrotechnics 43.8 22.5
EOD 15.6 4.1
Munitions 13.4 19.1
Total Energetics 72.8 45.7
Countermeasures 53.5 45.5
Charge for share-based payments (2.1) (1.7)
Restructuring costs (2.9) -
Unallocated head office costs (6.6) (4.6)
Total underlying operating profit* 114.7 84.9
Goodwill adjustment arising from recognition of tax losses - (1.8)
Intangible amortisation arising from business combinations (13.8) (6.0)
Gain/(loss) on fair value movements on derivatives 7.0 (8.7)
Total operating profit 107.9 68.4
Included within the charge for share-based payments are net costs of £2.1 million (2008: £1.7 million) for equity settled share-based payments.
Restructuring costs
The Group is conducting a major investment programme at Chemring Countermeasures Limited to develop the facilities at the site 
in Salisbury, and as a result has announced a restructuring programme costing £1.7 million. In addition, £1.2 million is being spent on 
the closure and transfer of the Titan Dynamics Systems business to Martin Electronics, Inc.. This project is integral to establishing the 
Chemring Ordnance business unit in the USA in order to target additional growth and generate the synergies to deliver the strategic plan.
Balance sheet
2009
£m
2008
£m
Assets
Energetics 434.8 403.5
Countermeasures 183.9 137.2
Interest in associate 1.1 1.0
Unallocated assets 31.3 39.7
Consolidated total assets 651.1 581.4
Liabilities
Energetics (239.7) (239.0)
Countermeasures (92.7) (66.0)
Unallocated liabilities (45.1) (45.8)
Consolidated total liabilities (377.5) (350.8)
Group net assets 273.6 230.6
* Before  goodwill adjustment arising from recognition of tax losses, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and gain/(loss) on fair value movements
on derivatives
Other information
2009
£m
2008
£m
Capital additions 
Energetics 15.9 21.5
Countermeasures 22.3 12.7
Depreciation and amortisation 
Energetics 14.9 10.2
Countermeasures 13.7 6.2 Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
64
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
5. Business and geographical segments continued
Geographical segments
The Group’s Energetics division operates in the UK, other EU countries, Australia and the USA. The Group’s operations in the 
Countermeasures division are located in the UK, Australia and the USA.
The following is an analysis of the carrying amount of net segment assets and additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets, analysed by the geographical area in which the assets are located. Net segment assets include continuing operations with 
associates and unallocated segment assets and liabilities (shown within the UK).
Carrying amount 
of net segment assets
Additions to property, plant and
equipment and intangible assets
2009
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
UK 130.0 108.9 20.1 11.4
USA 87.0 72.8 10.5 11.3
Rest of the world 56.6 48.9 7.6 11.5
 273.6 230.6 38.2 34.2
6. Operating profit
The following table shows a reconciliation of cost by function:
2009
£m
2008
£m
Total revenue 503.9 354.2
Cost of sales (329.9) (227.1)
Administrative expenses* (59.3) (42.2)
Goodwill adjustment arising from recognition of tax losses - (1.8)
Intangible amortisation arising from business combinations (13.8) (6.0)
Gain/(loss) on fair value movements on derivatives 7.0 (8.7)
Total administrative expenses (66.1) (58.7)
Total operating profit 107.9 68.4
*  Before  goodwill adjustment arising from recognition of tax losses, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and gain/ (loss) on fair value movements
on derivatives
Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting):
2009
£m
2008
£m
Research and development costs 14.1 6.7*
Depreciation   - property, plant and equipment 13.0 9.1
    - leased assets 0.3 0.6
Impairment charge 1.1 -
Amortisation   - other intangibles 1.5 0.7
    - arising from business combinations 13.8 6.0
Operating lease rentals - plant and machinery 1.1 0.7
    - other 1.1 1.1
Government grant (0.4) -
Foreign exchange losses 3.1 9.3
Staff costs (see Note 7) 108.9 84.8
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 204.1 140.2
Restructuring costs (see Note 5) 2.9 -
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services (see over) 0.6 0.4
*  Prior  year comparative has been restated from £9.3 million to £6.7 million as it included disclosure of research and development costs capitalised. No restatement of the
Income Statement is required. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
65
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
A more detailed analysis of auditors’ remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below:
2009
£m
2008
£m
Audit fees 0.3 0.2
Auditing accounts of subsidiary companies 0.3 0.2
0.6 0.4
Other services:
Tax services - compliance 0.1 0.1
Tax services - advisory 0.1 0.3
Corporate finance services 0.1 0.4
0.3 0.8
0.9 1.2
Corporate finance services above relate to fees for acquisitions and disposals. Included in the Group audit fees is £0.1 million (2008: £0.1 million) 
paid in respect of the parent company.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Statement on Corporate Governance on page 49 and includes an explanation 
of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
During the year the Group incurred professional fees with other accountancy firms for the provision of corporate finance services of 
£0.3 million (2008: £0.1 million).
7. Staff costs
The average monthly number of employees within each category (including executive directors) was:
2009
Number
2008
Number
Production 2,660 2,529
Administration, sales and marketing 719 541
3,379 3,070
At the year end the number of employees was 3,349 (2008: 3,312).
The costs incurred in respect of these employees were:
2009
£m
2008
£m
Wages and salaries 88.8 69.0
Social security costs 15.0 11.6
Other pension costs 5.1 4.2
108.9 84.8
8. Finance income
2009
£m
2008
£m
Interest income 0.7 1.8
9. Finance expense
2009
£m
2008
£m
Bank overdraft and loan interest 0.3 0.2
US loan notes interest 5.8 5.1
Medium term loan interest 5.1 6.0
Finance lease interest 0.2 0.1
Amortisation of debt finance costs 0.5 0.5
Interest cost of retirement benefit obligations (see Note 34) 1.4 0.7
Amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets (0.4) -
12.9 12.6
Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate of 6% to 
expenditure on such assets. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
66
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
10. Tax
2009
£m
2008
£m
Current tax charge (26.5) (15.2)
Deferred tax credit/(charge) (see Note 26) 0.8 (1.3)
Total current year tax charge (25.7) (16.5)
Income tax in the UK is calculated at 28% (2008: 28.83%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Tax for other jurisdictions is 
calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The total charge for the year can be reconciled to the Income Statement as follows:
2009
£m
2008
£m
Profit before tax for the year 95.8 57.7
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 28% (2008: 28.83%) (26.8) (16.6)
Income not allowable for tax purposes net of tax credits 0.6 1.4
Utilisation of tax losses 0.9 1.1
Other 0.1 0.6
Prior year adjustments (0.2) 0.4
Overseas profits taxed at rates different to the standard rate (0.3) (3.4)
Total current year tax charge (25.7) (16.5)
In addition to the income tax expense charged to the Income Statement, a tax debit of £0.9 million (2008: tax debit of £4.8 million) has 
been recognised in equity in the year and is included in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
The effective rate of tax incurred by the Group is 26.8% (2008: 28.6%), and the underlying* effective rate of tax incurred by the Group is 
26.9% (2008: 27.9%).
*  Before  goodwill adjustment arising from recognition of tax losses, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and gain/(loss) on fair value movements on derivatives
11. Dividends
2009
£m
2008
£m
Dividends on ordinary shares of 5p each
Final dividend for the year ended 31 October 2008 25.0p (2007: 17.8p) 8.8 5.8
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 October 2009 14.0p (2008: 10.0p) 5.0 3.5
Total dividends 13.8 9.3
The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 October 2009 of 36p per share will, if approved, absorb approximately 
£12.7 million of shareholders’ funds. The dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and accordingly 
has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
12. Earnings per share
Earnings per share are based on the average number of shares in issue of 35,266,616 (2008: 33,339,754) and profit on ordinary activities 
after tax of £70.1 million (2008: £41.2 million). Diluted earnings per share has been calculated using a diluted average number of shares in 
issue of 35,601,379 (2008: 33,514,169) and profit on ordinary activities after tax of £70.1 million (2008: £41.2 million).
The earnings and shares used in the calculations are as follows:
From continuing operations 2009 2008
Earnings
£m
Ordinary shares
Number 
000s
EPS
Pence
Earnings
£m
Ordinary shares
Number 
000s
EPS
Pence
Basic 70.1 35,267 199 41.2 33,340 123
Additional shares issuable other 
than at fair value in respect of 
options outstanding - 334 (2) - 174 -
Diluted 70.1 35,601 197 41.2 33,514 123
The number of shares in issue differs from the number held by third parties due to the fact that the Group holds Chemring Group PLC 
shares in treasury. Further information on the treasury shares is given in Note 30. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
67
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Reconciliation from basic earnings per share to underlying earnings per share:
Underlying basic earnings are defined as earnings before intangible amortisation arising from business combinations, goodwill 
adjustment arising from recognition of tax losses and gain/(loss) on fair value movements on derivatives. The directors consider this 
measure of earnings allows a more meaningful comparison of earnings trends.
2009 2008
Earnings
£m
Ordinary shares
Number 
000s
EPS
Pence
Earnings
£m
Ordinary shares
Number 
000s
EPS
Pence
Basic 70.1 35,267 199 41.2 33,340 123
Intangible amortisation arising from 
business combinations, goodwill 
adjustment and gain/(loss) on fair 
value movements on derivatives 
(after tax) 4.9 - 14 12.3 - 37
Underlying 75.0 35,267 213 53.5 33,340 160
13. Goodwill 
£m
Cost
At 1 November 2007 94.8
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 24.1
Recognition of tax assets in respect of losses (1.8)
Foreign exchange adjustments 11.7
At 1 November 2008 128.8
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 17.0
Foreign exchange adjustments 3.7
At 31 October 2009 149.5
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 November 2007, 1 November 2008 and 31 October 2009 -
Carrying amount
At 31 October 2009 149.5
At 31 October 2008 128.8
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the cash generating units (“CGU”) that are expected to benefit 
from that business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows:
Energetics £m
Chemring EOD Limited 7.1
Titan Dynamics Systems, Inc. 1.0
Scot, Inc. 10.4
Martin Electronics, Inc. 4.2
Goodwill arising from fair value adjustments on prior year acquisitions * 1.4
At 31 October 2008 24.1
Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. (see Note 33) 16.6
Goodwill arising from fair value adjustments on prior year acquisitions * 0.4
At 31 October 2009 17.0
*  In  accordance with IFRS3 fair value adjustments have been made within twelve months of the acquisition dates which has resulted in additional goodwill being recognised in
the year (2009: Scot, Inc. and Martin Electronics, Inc. - £0.4 million (2008: Simmel Difesa S.p.A. and Technical Ordnance, Inc. - £1.4 million)).
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the CGU are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations 
are those regarding the discount rates, the growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period for 
which management have detailed plans. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market  Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
68
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
13. Goodwill continued
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGU being measured (the weighted average cost of capital “WACC”). 
The discount rate used for both divisions is 7.5% (2008: 10.0%). The calculation has used the Group’s plan figures for the next five years. 
At the end of five years, it assumes the performance of the Group companies will continue in perpetuity at the fifth year level. The growth 
rates are based on a prudent view of industry growth forecasts, adjusted for a premium associated with the high technological nature of 
the businesses. Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market. 
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management for the next five years 
and extrapolates cash flows after that period based on growth as described above.
Following a detailed review, no impairment losses for continuing operations have been recognised in the year and no prior impairment 
losses reversed.
The Group has conducted sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of each CGU’s carrying value. The sensitivity testing involved varying 
the discount rate and the forecasted growth during the next five years. Even with an assumption of zero growth, both CGU’s would not 
require an impairment.
Goodwill
£m
Intangible assets
£m
Net asset value 
£m
Energetics 136.4 81.9 195.1
Countermeasures 13.1 - 91.2
149.5 81.9 286.3
14. Other intangible assets
Acquired 
intangibles
£m
Other*
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 November 2007 38.7 4.7 43.4
Additions - 3.2 3.2
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 37.6 0.3 37.9
Foreign exchange adjustments 14.2 0.8 15.0
At 1 November 2008 90.5 9.0 99.5
Additions - 4.8 4.8
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings** 15.5 - 15.5
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.1 (0.1) -
At 31 October 2009 106.1 13.7 119.8
Amortisation
At 1 November 2007 3.7 2.6 6.3
Charge for the year 6.0 0.7 6.7
Foreign exchange adjustments 1.0 0.5 1.5
At 1 November 2008 10.7 3.8 14.5
Charge for the year 13.8 1.5 15.3
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.3) (0.1) (0.4)
At 31 October 2009 24.2 5.2 29.4
Carrying amount
At 31 October 2009 81.9 8.5 90.4
At 31 October 2008 79.8 5.2 85.0
Acquired intangible assets are recognised at fair value on acquisition and are amortised over their estimated useful lives. Fair values for 
acquired intangible assets are assessed by reference to future estimated cash flows discounted at an appropriate rate to present value, 
or by reference to the amount that would have been paid in an arm’s length transaction between two knowledgeable and willing parties. 
Other intangible assets are recognised at cost and are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
* Other intangibles comprise development costs, patents and licences. 
** See Note 33. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
69
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
15. Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Total 
£m
Cost or valuation
At 1 November 2007 37.2 61.0 98.2
Additions 11.6 19.4 31.0
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 5.9 2.1 8.0
Disposals - (2.7) (2.7)
Foreign exchange adjustments 5.6 13.2 18.8
At 1 November 2008 60.3 93.0 153.3
Additions 6.0 27.4 33.4
Transfer - 2.3 2.3
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings - 0.4 0.4
Disposals - (0.8) (0.8)
Foreign exchange adjustments 2.8 2.0 4.8
At 31 October 2009 69.1 124.3 193.4
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 November 2007 4.4 24.0 28.4
Charge for the year 1.8 7.9 9.7
Disposals - (2.6) (2.6)
Foreign exchange adjustments 1.0 6.4 7.4
At 1 November 2008 7.2 35.7 42.9
Charge for the year 2.5 10.8 13.3
Impairment charge 1.1 - 1.1
Disposals - (0.2) (0.2)
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.2) 1.5 1.3
At 31 October 2009 10.6 47.8 58.4
Carrying amount
At 31 October 2009 58.5 76.5 135.0
At 31 October 2008 53.1 57.3 110.4
The carrying amount of the Group’s plant and equipment includes an amount of £2.1 million (2008: £2.4 million) in respect of assets held 
under finance leases. £0.4 million (2008: nil) of interest has been capitalised (see Note 9).
Land and buildings were revalued at 30 September 1997 by Chestertons Chartered Surveyors, independent valuers not connected with 
the Group, on the basis of depreciated replacement cost for the two pyrotechnic sites, and on open market for the remainder.
2009
£m
2008
£m
30 September 1997 depreciated replacement cost 5.8 5.8
Freehold at cost 63.3 54.5
69.1 60.3
If stated under historical cost principles the comparable amounts for the total of land and buildings would be:
2009
£m
2008
£m
Cost 67.1 58.3
Accumulated depreciation (10.0) (6.7)
Historical cost value 57.1 51.6
All other tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
70
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
15. Property, plant and equipment continued
At 31 October 2009 the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting 
to £14.0 million (2008: £1.1 million). The Group is conducting two major investment programmes for new countermeasures facilities at 
Salisbury, UK and Lara, Australia. The Group has committed to spending £13.0 million in respect of these projects.
The £1.1 million impairment charge on land and buildings arose in connection with the restructuring of the Titan Dynamics Systems, Inc. 
site in Texas, USA (see Note 5). 
16. Subsidiary undertakings
All subsidiary undertakings have been included in the consolidation. The undertakings held at 31 October 2009 which, in the opinion of 
the directors, principally affected the results for the year or the net assets of the Group are shown below. 
Subsidiary undertaking
Country of incorporation 
(or registration) 
and operation
% of issued ordinary
share capital controlled by
Chemring Group PLC Activity
Chemring Countermeasures Ltd England 100 Countermeasures
Chemring Defence UK Ltd England 100 Energetics
Chemring Marine Ltd England 100 Energetics
Chemring EOD Ltd England 100 Energetics
Chemring Energetics UK Ltd Scotland 100 Energetics
Chemring Defence Germany GmbH Germany 100 Energetics
Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. USA 100 Countermeasures
Kilgore Flares Company LLC USA 100 Countermeasures and energetics
Technical Ordnance, Inc. USA 100 Energetics
Titan Dynamics Systems, Inc. USA 100 Energetics
Scot, Inc. USA 100 Energetics
Martin Electronics, Inc. USA 100 Energetics
Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. USA 100 Energetics
Chemring Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100 Countermeasures and energetics
Chemring Defence Spain S.L. Spain 100 Energetics
Simmel Difesa S.p.A. Italy 100 Energetics
Chemring Nobel AS Norway 100 Energetics
Associated undertaking
CIRRA S.A. France 49 Countermeasures
17. Interest in associate
2009
£m
2008
£m
Interest in associate (including goodwill of £0.5 million (2008: £0.5 million)) 1.1 1.0
Amounts relating to associate:
2009
£m
2008
£m
Assets 0.8 0.9
Liabilities (0.2) (0.4)
Revenue 0.8 0.7
Profit after tax 0.1 0.1
The results of the associated undertaking relate to the Group’s share of CIRRA S.A.
18. Inventories
2009
£m
2008
£m
Raw materials 41.7 36.4
Work in progress 32.0 30.1
Finished goods 23.2 22.6
96.9 89.1
There are no significant differences between the replacement costs and the fair values shown above. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
71
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
19. Trade and other receivables
2009
£m
2008
£m
Current
Trade receivables 85.0 77.2
Allowance for doubtful debts (1.0) (1.2)
84.0 76.0
Other debtors 7.5 8.1
Prepayments and accrued income 7.3 3.7
98.8 87.8
All amounts shown above are due within one year.
The average credit period taken on sales of goods, adjusted for Group revenue had the acquisitions taken place on the first day of the 
financial year, is 61 days (2008: 77 days). No interest is charged on the receivables from the date of invoice to payment. 
The Group’s policy is to provide in full for debtors greater than 120 days beyond agreed terms, unless extenuating circumstances exist. 
The Group does not experience significant bad debt write-offs and hence no movement schedule for the allowance for doubtful debts has 
been provided due to its immaterial level in 2009 and 2008. An ageing analysis has not been shown as all significant overdue receivables 
are covered by the allowance for doubtful debts provision above.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair values.
20. Cash and cash equivalents
Bank balances and cash comprise cash held by the Group and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
Included within cash is £5.5 million of restricted cash (2008: £5.4 million), of which £5.1 million (2008: 5.0 million) is held in escrow in 
relation to the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme (see Note 34).
21. Bank loans and overdrafts
2009
£m
2008
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts 34.3 19.7
UK medium term loans - sterling denominated 13.3 22.9
- euro denominated 42.8 45.0
- other denominated 3.6 3.2
Overseas medium term loans - US dollar denominated 1.4 3.1
US loan notes - sterling denominated 12.5 12.5
- US dollar denominated 74.7 76.9
182.6 183.3
2009
£m
2008
£m
Borrowings falling due within:
One year 34.3 19.7
One to two years 36.4 21.2
Two to five years 24.7 34.9
After five years 87.2 107.5
148.3 163.6
182.6 183.3
Analysis of borrowings by currency:
Sterling 38.0 45.1
US dollar 89.4 81.1
Euro 51.6 53.8
Other 3.6 3.3
Total 182.6 183.3 Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
72
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
21. Bank loans and overdrafts continued
The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows:
2009
%
2008
%
Bank loans and overdrafts 4.9 6.1
UK medium term loans - sterling denominated 4.9 6.7
- US dollar denominated 4.9 6.3
- euro denominated 5.0 5.6
- other denominated 6.8 6.8
Overseas medium term loans - US dollar denominated 4.2 4.2
US loan notes - sterling denominated 6.8 6.8
- US dollar denominated 6.3 6.3
Bank loans and overdrafts held with Bank of Scotland are secured by a debenture over the assets of certain of the Group’s subsidiaries 
and are also subject to cross guarantees between subsidiaries. Bank loans held with Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania (USA) are secured on 
the related assets purchased with these loans by Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc.. The security over the US loan notes ranks pari passu with 
that held by Bank of Scotland.
As the loans are re-translated to the year end exchange rates, the directors do not believe the fair value of the Group’s borrowings to be 
materially different to the book values.
There have been no breaches of the terms of the loan agreements or defaults during the current or previous year.
The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities in various currencies available in respect of which all conditions precedent have 
been met. These facilities are at floating interest rates.
2009
£m
2008
£m
Undrawn borrowings
Cash and gross facilities 163.6 140.6
Bonds and guarantees (56.7) (33.5)
Total undrawn borrowings 106.9 107.1
After the Balance Sheet date, the Group repaid £23.9 million of its Sterling medium term loan facility and £12.2 million of its US dollar 
borrowings. The repayment of these facilities followed a new fundraising by the private placement of $280 million of fixed interest loan 
notes. For further information see Note 37.
22. Obligations under finance leases
Minimum lease 
payments
Present value of minimum 
lease payments
2009
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Amounts payable under finance leases:
Within one year 0.6 0.8 0.5 0.7
In the second to fifth years 1.1 2.2 0.9 1.8
After five years - 0.4 - 0.4
Less future finance charges (0.3) (0.5) - -
Present value of lease obligations 1.4 2.9 1.4 2.9
Less amounts due within twelve months shown under current liabilities (0.5) (0.7)
Amount due for settlement after twelve months 0.9 2.2
Finance lease obligations attract interest rates of between 2% and 3% above base rate. Lease obligations are denominated in sterling, 
US dollars, Euro and Australian dollars.
The fair value of the Group’s leases approximates to their carrying amounts.
The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ title to the underlying leased assets (see Note 15). Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
73
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
23. Trade and other payables
2009
£m
2008
£m
Current
Trade creditors 62.4 58.6
Other creditors 10.6 9.6
Other tax and Social Security 3.9 3.2
Accruals and deferred income 38.2 37.1
115.1 108.5
Non-current 1.8 1.8
Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The directors consider 
that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
24. Financial instruments and risk management
The Group uses financial instruments to manage financial and commercial risk wherever it is appropriate to do so. The main risks 
addressed by the financial instruments of the Group are interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s policies in 
respect of the management of these risks, which remained unchanged throughout the year, were as follows:
Market risk
The Group’s multi-national activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The 
Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, including:
• Forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on translation of the Group’s investments in overseas 
businesses which have currencies other than sterling as their functional currency.
• Interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of rising interest rates.
• Forward currency structures to hedge the exchange risk arising on translation of the overseas business profits.
Foreign currency risk management
The Group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Hence, exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise. 
Foreign currency exchange risk can be subdivided into two components, transactional risk and translation risk:
Transactional risk:  The Group policy is to hedge significant transactional currency exposures via the use of forward foreign exchange 
contracts. The measurement and control of this risk is closely monitored on a Group-wide basis.
Translation risk:  The Group translates overseas results and net assets in accordance with the accounting policy in Note 3. 
The translation risk on net assets is mitigated by the transfer of currencies between Group companies and the 
appropriate use of foreign currency borrowings.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the year end were as follows:
US$ Euro NOK
2009
AUS$ US$ Euro NOK
2008
AUS$
Monetary assets (million) 100.9 34.1 36.8 4.8 83.9 55.0 32.6 5.3
Monetary liabilities (million) 185.3 84.7 42.1 2.0 168.2 105.0 45.6 1.1
Currency denominated net assets are partially hedged by currency borrowings. The borrowings detailed below were designated as 
hedging instruments in net investment hedges.
US$ Euro NOK
2009
AUS$ US$ Euro NOK
2008
AUS$
Borrowings (million) 147.1 57.6 33.9 - 125.0 66.9 35.0 -
The Group uses foreign exchange contracts to hedge its currency risk, most with a maturity of less than one year from the year end. When 
necessary, forward exchange contracts are rolled over at maturity. The most significant exchange rate to manage as far as the Group is 
concerned is the sterling: US dollar exchange rate.
The following table details the forward foreign currency contracts for sales of foreign currencies outstanding as at 31 October:
Average exchange rate Expiring within one year
2009

2008

2009
£m
2008
£m
US dollar 1.66 2.04 39.4 9.0
Euro 1.01 1.39 1.2 2.0 Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
74
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
24. Financial instruments and risk management continued
At the year end, there was one US dollar structure in place which was set up to protect the Income Statement from currency fluctuations 
during 2009 and through to October 2011, and provides an economic hedge. The structure involves a cap and a collar, which lock in the 
exchange rates to give the Group the appropriate protection. However, the structure does not give linear relationships with the gain or 
loss from re-translation of future profits and hence hedge accounting has not been adopted for this financial instrument.
At 31 October 2009, a £0.2 million loss is shown as an adjustment to underlying operating profit and represents the fair value of the 
structure. The significant change arises due to the appreciation of the US dollar since the new structure was implemented in March 2009. 
The appreciation of the dollar has locked the structure into a fixed rate of 1.66 on a currency amount of $72 million in the year to 
October 2010 and $54 million in the year to October 2011.
The principal amounts of the Group’s Euro, NOK and US dollar bank loans and loan notes have been accounted for as net investment 
hedges on the European, Norwegian and US businesses. These hedges are effective throughout the year and the losses arising on 
translation have been offset against the gains on re-translation of the subsidiaries in reserves. 
Interest on borrowing is denominated in currencies that match the cash flows generated by the underlying operations of the Group. 
This provides an economic hedge and no derivatives are entered into except for interest rate swaps to hedge the interest rate risks.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 10 cents movement in the relevant foreign currencies against sterling. 10 cents 
represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates. The sensitivity analysis includes only 
outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the year end for a 10 cents change in foreign 
currency rates. A negative number indicates a decrease in profit and equity where sterling strengthens against the relevant currency.
US dollar impact Euro impact
2009

2008

2009
£m
2008
£m
Loss (9.8) (7.8) (4.6) (3.5)
Other equity (9.8) (7.8) (4.6) (3.5)
The Group’s sensitivity to foreign currency increased during the year, mainly due to the growth of the US and European subsidiaries. 
These potential losses arising on the year end foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities would be more than offset by future 
translation and transaction gains. 
In the management’s opinion the sensitivity analysis is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign exchange risk as the year end exposure 
does not reflect the exposure during the year.
Interest rate risk
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits, bank borrowings and leasing lines of credit. The UK borrowings 
are denominated in sterling, Euro, US dollar and Norwegian Kroner, and are subject to floating rates of interest linked to the Bank of 
Scotland base rate. In order to protect against the risk of higher interest rates, the Group has entered into amortising interest rate swaps 
for the majority of its UK borrowings. The overseas borrowings are denominated in local currency and are predominantly subject to fixed 
rates of interest.
During 2007, the Group refinanced part of its Bank of Scotland borrowing facilities with a private placement of ten year fixed interest loan 
notes in the US. The arrangement provides a natural hedge against the Group’s investment structure in its US businesses. The US loan 
notes are repayable in full in 2017.
Euro, NOK and sterling floating rate borrowings have interest rate swaps which mitigate the exposure arising on the floating rate debt 
and were all designated as cash flow hedges. The sterling loan was repaid in November 2009 and as such the interest rate hedge was 
de-recognised at the year end. The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap 
contracts outstanding at the reporting date.
Period of swap contracts
Fixed rate
%
From

To Currency value
m
Sterling bank loans 3.6–4.76 November 2007 April 2014 23.9
Euro bank loans 3.67–4.35 November 2007 April 2014 58.1
NOK bank loans 5.495 November 2007 April 2012 35.0
As the Group has predominantly fixed interest rate loans, the Income Statement is not sensitive to a small change in interest rates. 
The range represents the two applicable interest rates incurred during the swap contracts. The swap instruments match the interest 
payment profiles of the medium term debt. 
As a result of restructuring the interest rate swap for the euro loan, a mark to market loss of £3.5 million was rolled up into the new 
hedge agreement, effective from May 2009. This cost is being amortised over the life of the original hedge relationship, with £0.5 million 
charged during the year (2008: nil). Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
75
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Liquidity risk
The table below details the maturity profiles of the Group’s derivative financial instruments and loans as at 31 October:
2009 2008
Derivative 
payables
£m
Derivative
receivables
£m
Loans and
overdrafts 
£m
Total 
£m
Derivative 
payables
£m
Derivative
receivables
£m
Loans and
overdrafts 
£m
Total 
£m
Falling due within:
One year 59.4 (59.0) 34.3 34.7 47.7 (41.2) 19.7 26.2
One to two years 32.8 (32.5) 36.4 36.7 22.1 (19.4) 21.2 23.9
Two to five years - - 24.7 24.7 - - 34.9 34.9
After five years - - 87.2 87.2 - - 107.5 107.5
92.2 (91.5) 182.6 183.3 69.8 (60.6) 183.3 192.5
The profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities is as follows:
Financial assets
2009
Total
£m
2008
Total
£m
Sterling 23.9 38.5
US dollar 17.3 14.6
Australian dollar 2.6 1.8
Euro 16.0 21.0
Other currencies 1.5 1.7
61.3 77.6
Offset in the UK - (8.0)
Cash at bank and in hand 61.3 69.6
Financial assets held in the UK enjoy a right of interest offset against overdraft balances. Overseas financial assets have a weighted 
average interest rate of 0.5% (2008: 2.0%). The financial assets for both years are at floating rate.
Included within cash is £5.5 million of restricted cash (2008: £5.4 million), of which £5.1 million (2008: 5.0 million) is held in escrow in 
relation to the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme (see Note 34).
Financial liabilities 2009 2008
Floating rate
£m
Fixed rate
£m
Total
£m
Floating rate
£m
Fixed rate
£m
Total
£m
Sterling - (38.7) (38.7) (3.1) (53.1) (56.2)
US dollar (12.2) (78.0) (90.2) (4.2) (76.9) (81.1)
Euro - (51.6) (51.6) (0.8) (53.0) (53.8)
Other currencies - (3.6) (3.6) - (3.2) (3.2)
(12.2) (171.9) (184.1) (8.1) (186.2) (194.3)
Offset in the UK - 8.0
(184.1) (186.3)
Bank loans and overdrafts (34.3) (19.7)
Medium term loans UK (59.7) (71.1)
US loan notes (87.2) (89.4)
Medium term loans overseas (1.4) (3.1)
Obligations under finance leases (1.4) (2.9)
Preference shares (0.1) (0.1)
(184.1) (186.3)
A right of offset exists for currency amounts held within the UK by Bank of Scotland. These are used to offset the interest charged on the 
UK overdraft which bears interest at 1.0% above LIBOR. Cash at bank and in hand consists primarily of overseas funds which are used as 
short term intra-group financing as well as an internal exchange rate hedge.
The weighted average interest rate of fixed rate financial liabilities at 31 October 2009 was 5.5% (2008: 6.2%) and the weighted average 
period of funding was five years (2008: six years). Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
76
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
24. Financial instruments and risk management continued
Derivative financial instruments 
The Group has three amortising interest rate swaps, from floating to fixed rate: one that expires in 2014 at a rate of 3.6-4.76% (sterling); 
one that expires in 2014 at a rate of 3.67-4.35% (Euro) and one that expires in 2012 at a rate of 5.495% (NOK). The fair value of interest 
rate swaps recognised on the Balance Sheet at 31 October 2009 was £4.8 million liability (2008: £1.2 million liability). The Group also has 
two forward exchange contracts with a fair value of £0.2 million asset (2008: £1.2 million liability). The total of these financial instruments 
is £4.6 million liability (2008: £2.4 million liability) and is recorded in reserves.
The following table details the fair value of derivative financial instruments recognised in the Balance Sheet at 31 October:
2009
Total
£m
2008
Total
£m
Interest rate swaps (4.8) (1.2)
Forward exchange contracts 0.2 (1.2)
Forward currency structure derivatives 0.2 (8.7)
(4.4) (11.1)
Analysed as:
2009
Total
£m
2008
Total
£m
Included in current assets 0.4 -
Included in current liabilities (1.1) (8.1)
Included in non-current liabilities (3.7) (3.0)
(4.4) (11.1)
Hedge accounting has been applied on the forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps. The values are recorded in reserves. 
The £8.9 million gain (2008: £8.7 million loss) on currency structures is recorded in the Income Statement as part of the reconciliation to 
underlying operating profit.
The following table details the gain/(loss) on fair value movements on derivatives recognised in the Income Statement:
2009
Total
£m
2008
Total
£m
Change in fair value of currency structures 8.9 (8.7)
Amortisation (see interest rate risk section above) (0.5) -
Charge arising on de-recognition of hedge accounting (1.4) -
7.0 (8.7)
Due to the early repayment of the sterling loan in November 2009 (see Note 37) the sterling interest rate swap was de-recognised in the 
year, and a charge of £1.4 million (2008: nil) has been recognised. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
77
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, and trade and other receivables, which represent the Group’s 
maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets. The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single 
counterparty. The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high 
credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the Balance Sheet are net of 
allowances for doubtful receivables, based on prior experience and an assessment of the current economic environment. Trade receivable 
consists of a small number of customers spread across diverse geographical areas. Customers are mainly multi-national organisations 
or government agencies with whom the Group has long term business relationships. The majority of the Group’s business is with 
the US Department of Defense and the UK Ministry of Defence, and as such the credit risk on debtors is considered to be very low. 
Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable and, when appropriate, action is taken to 
minimise the credit risk to the Group.
The Group’s price risk is principally in relation to the cost of raw materials and is not considered significant. Price risk is managed through 
negotiations with suppliers and, where appropriate, the agreement of fixed price supply contracts.
Capital management
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future 
development of the business. The Board monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the return on capital, which 
the Group defines as total shareholders’ equity, excluding non-redeemable preference shares and minority interests, and the level of 
dividends to ordinary shareholders. 
From time to time the Group purchases its own shares on the market; the timing of these purchases depends on the market prices. 
Primarily, the shares are intended to be used for satisfying awards under the Group’s share-based incentive schemes. Buy and sell 
decisions are made on a specific transaction basis by the Board. The Group does not have a defined share buy-back plan. 
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year. 
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements. 
25. Provisions
Environmental
provisions
£m
Warranty
provisions
£m
Restructuring
provisions
£m
Other 
provisions
£m
Total
£m
At 1 November 2008 5.0 0.8 - 0.1 5.9
Provided for in the year - 0.3 2.9 - 3.2
Effect of foreign exchange movements (0.2) - - - (0.2)
Utilised in the year (0.2) (0.5) (1.7) (0.1) (2.5)
At 31 October 2009 4.6 0.6 1.2 - 6.4
Analysed as:
2009
£m
2008
£m
Included in current liabilities 1.2 1.5
Included in non-current liabilities 5.2 4.4
6.4 5.9
The warranty provisions at 31 October 2009 are held by Simmel Difesa S.p.A. and represent management’s best estimate of the Group’s 
liability under six year warranties granted, based on past experience for defective products.
The environmental provisions at 31 October 2009 relate to Scot, Inc. and represent management’s best estimate of the liability based on 
certain environmental liabilities pre-dating the acquisition of the business. 
The restructuring provisions at 31 October 2009 relate to Chemring Countermeasures Limited and Titan Dynamics Systems, Inc. (see 
Note 5). The provision represents managements’ best estimates of the costs to be incurred on the restructuring programmes during 2010. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
78
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
26. Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities/(assets) recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the year.
Accelerated tax
depreciation
£m
Retirement benefit
obligations
£m
Tax losses
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 November 2007 6.4 (3.5) (0.7) 0.8 3.0
Charge/(credit) to income 3.1 (0.3) (0.9) (0.7) 1.2
Charge to equity 0.5 - - 3.0 3.5
Amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiary 
undertakings 0.1 - - (0.5) (0.4)
Foreign exchange movements (0.7) - - 1.0 0.3
At 1 November 2008 9.4 (3.8) (1.6) 3.6 7.6
Charge/(credit) to income 1.7 (0.1) - (2.4) (0.8)
Credit to equity (0.1) (4.0) - (0.4) (4.5)
Amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiary 
undertakings - - (0.5) 3.5 3.0
Foreign exchange movements (0.1) - - (0.3) (0.4)
At 31 October 2009 10.9 (7.9) (2.1) 4.0 4.9
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy. Deferred tax balances after 
offset, for balance sheet purposes, and are analysed as follows:
2009
£m
2008
£m
Deferred tax liabilities 22.6 17.3
Deferred tax assets (17.7) (9.7)
4.9 7.6
At the Balance Sheet date the Group had unrecognised tax losses of £4.9 million (2008: £8.4 million) potentially available for offset 
against future profits in certain circumstances. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of this amount because of the 
unpredictability of future qualifying profit streams. These losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
27. Share capital
2009
£m
2008
£m
Authorised
43,000,000 ordinary shares of 5p each 2.2 2.2
Issued and fully paid
35,585,832 (2008: 35,535,699) ordinary shares of 5p each 1.8 1.8
133 ordinary shares (2008: nil) were issued under the Group’s sharesave scheme during the year. A further 50,000 ordinary shares 
(2008: 127,798) were issued for a cash consideration of £0.5 million under the Group’s executive share option scheme. 
The Company’s authorised share capital also includes 62,500 7% cumulative preference shares of £1 each, which are all issued and fully 
paid-up, and are classified for accounting purposes within non-current liabilities. The cumulative preference shares carry an entitlement 
to a dividend at the rate of 7p per share per annum, payable in equal instalments on 30 April and 31 October each year. Holders of the 
preference shares have the right on winding-up to receive, in priority to any other classes of shares, the sum of £1 per share together with 
any arrears of dividends.  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
79
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
28. Reserves
Share premium
account
£m
Special capital
reserve
£m
Hedging 
reserve
£m
Revaluation
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total
£m
At 1 November 2007 60.5 12.9 0.4 1.6 49.8 125.2
Ordinary shares issued 59.3 - - - - 59.3
Profit after tax for the year - - - - 41.2 41.2
Dividends paid - - - - (9.3) (9.3)
Cost of share-based payments (net of settlements) - - - - 1.7 1.7
Deferred tax on share-based payment transactions - - - - (0.5) (0.5)
Actuarial gain - - - - (0.1) (0.1)
Decrease in fair value of cash flow hedging derivatives - - (3.8) - - (3.8)
Deferred tax on decrease of cash flow hedges - - 0.8 - - 0.8
Foreign exchange translation gain - - - - 24.8 24.8
Transfers between reserves - - - (0.1) 0.1 -
Tax debits on items taken direct to reserves - - - - (4.8) (4.8)
At 1 November 2008 119.8 12.9 (2.6) 1.5 102.9 234.5
Ordinary shares issued 0.5 - - - - 0.5
Profit after tax for the year - - - - 70.1 70.1
Dividends paid - - - - (13.8) (13.8)
Cost of share-based payments (net of settlements) - - - - 0.9 0.9
Deferred tax on share-based payment transactions - - - - (0.3) (0.3)
Actuarial loss - - - - (14.1) (14.1)
Deferred tax credit on actuarial loss - - - - 4.0 4.0
Decrease in fair value of cash flow hedging derivatives - - (1.0) - - (1.0)
Deferred tax on decrease of cash flow hedges - - 0.2 - - 0.2
Foreign exchange translation loss - - - - (3.1) (3.1)
Transfers between reserves - - - (0.1) 0.1 -
Tax debits on items taken direct to reserves - - - - (0.9) (0.9)
At 31 October 2009 120.3 12.9 (3.4) 1.4 145.8 277.0
The share premium account, the special capital reserve and the revaluation reserve are not distributable.
Included within retained earnings are £1.1 million of retained profits (2008: £1.1 million) relating to the associated undertaking and 
£0.1 million (2008: £0.1 million) of the Company’s own shares held by the Group’s ESOP trustee. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
80
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
29. Statement of changes in equity
2009
£m
2008
£m
Total recognised income and expense for the year (see page 54) 55.2 58.1
Dividends (13.8) (9.3)
41.4 48.8
Ordinary shares issued - 0.2
Share premium arising 0.5 59.3
Credit to equity settled share-based payments 0.9 1.7
Deferred tax on share-based payment transactions (0.3) (0.5)
Transactions in own shares 0.5 (2.9)
Net addition to shareholders’ funds 43.0 106.6
Opening shareholders’ funds 230.6 124.0
Closing shareholders’ funds 273.6 230.6
Equity comprises share capital, share premium and retained earnings.
30. Own shares
2009
£m
2008
£m
Balance at 1 November 2008 5.7 2.8
Acquired in the year 1.5 2.9
Issued in the year to satisfy employee share awards (2.0) -
Balance at 31 October 2009 5.2 5.7
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Chemring Group PLC purchased in the market and held by the Group to satisfy 
awards under the Group’s share-based incentive schemes (see Note 32). During the year 78,301 (2008: 160,000) ordinary shares were 
acquired, and 115,170 (2008: nil) ordinary shares were distributed following the vesting of awards under the Chemring Group Performance 
Share Plan. The total number of ordinary shares held in treasury at 31 October 2009 was 273,131 (2008: 310,000) with an average rate of 
£18.17 (2008: £18.19) per share. This represents 0.8% of the total issued and fully paid ordinary share capital.
31. Obligations under non-cancellable operating leases
2009
£m
2008
£m
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in the Income Statement in the year 2.2 1.8
At the Balance Sheet date the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases, which fall due as follows:
2009
£m
2008
£m
Within one year 0.9 1.1
Two to five years 1.3 1.5
2.2 2.6
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group. Leases are negotiated for an average term of three years and rentals 
are fixed for the lease period with an option to extend for a further period at the then prevailing market rate. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
81
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
32. Share-based payments
The Group operates share-based compensation arrangements to provide incentives to the Group’s senior management and other 
eligible employees.
Details of the four schemes which operated during the year are as follows:
The Chemring Group Performance Share Plan (the “PSP”)
Under the PSP, conditional awards of ordinary shares are made at nil cost. Awards vest on the third anniversary of the award date. 
The scheme commenced in March 2006.
Number of conditional shares awarded
2009 2008
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 310,743 228,096
Awarded during the year 163,057 98,771
Vested during the year (115,170) -
Lapsed during the year - (16,124)
Outstanding at the end of the year 358,630 310,743
Subject to vesting at the end of the year - -
The Group assumes that all the conditions of the PSP will be met.
As there is no option element the share price is discounted based on the following assumptions:
• dividend growth at 5% per annum (2008: growth at 5% per annum);
• weighted average cost of capital 8% (2008: 10%).
The weighted average fair value of awards made during the year was 2,004.7p (2008: 1,813.8p)
The Chemring 1998 Executive Share Option Scheme (the “1998 ESOS”)
Under the 1998 ESOS options were granted at a price not less than the market value of the Group’s ordinary shares on the date 
the options were granted.
2009 2008
Number of 
share options
Weighted average
exercise price
Pence
Number of 
share options
Weighted average
exercise price
Pence
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 50,000 973.0 177,798 598.5
Exercised during the year (50,000) 973.0 (127,798) 451.8
Outstanding at the end of the year - - 50,000 973.0
Share options were exercised during the year and the average share price was 2,089.5p (2008: 2,324.5p). There were no options 
outstanding at the end of the year, and this scheme has now terminated.
The compensation expense recognised in respect of share options is based on their fair value at the grant date calculated using the 
Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The Group recognised net costs of £2.1 million (2008: £1.7 million) in respect of share-based payment transactions during the year. 
The Chemring Group 2008 UK Sharesave Plan (the “UK Sharesave Plan”)
Options were granted during the year on 31 July 2009. 
Number of share options
2009 2008
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 51,175 -
Granted during the year 33,512 51,416
Exercised during the year (133) -
Lapsed during the year (6,518) (241)
Outstanding at the end of the year 78,036 51,175
Subject to exercise at the end of the year - - Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
82
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
32. Share-based payments continued
The Chemring Group 2008 US Stock Purchase Plan (the “US Stock Purchase Plan”)
Options were granted during the year on 31 July 2009. This plan provides US employees with the opportunity to share in the future 
success of the Group and mirrors the UK Sharesave Plan subject to certain legal and tax differences due to the differing jurisdictions. 
Number of share options
2009 2008
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 6,960 -
Granted during the year 10,461 6,960
Lapsed during the year (575) -
Outstanding at the end of the year 16,846 6,960
Subject to exercise at the end of the year - -
33. Acquisitions
The following acquisition was completed during the year ended 31 October 2009:
Name of business acquired
Activity Date of acquisition
Proportion of
shares acquired 
%
Acquisition
consideration
including costs 
£m
Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. (NIITEK) Energetics 12 Dec 2008 100 26.9
26.9
Reconciliation to cash flow statement:
£m
Cash paid for acquisitions in the year (26.9)
Cash paid for acquisitions acquired in prior year (0.4)
Bank overdraft acquired (0.3)
Net cash outflow (27.6)
An analysis of the net assets acquired of Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. is shown below:
Book value
£m
Fair value
adjustments
£m
Fair value
£m
Intangible assets - 15.5 15.5
Property, plant and equipment 0.6 (0.2) 0.4
Bank overdraft (0.3) - (0.3)
Working capital (0.1) (1.6) (1.7)
Deferred tax 0.1 (3.7) (3.6)
Net assets acquired 0.3 10.0 10.3
Goodwill arising on acquisition of Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. 16.6
Total 26.9
Consideration £m
Cash 26.3
Directly attributable costs 0.6
Total 26.9 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
83
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Adjustments from book value to provisional fair value arise principally from the application of Group accounting policies and the 
recognition of intangible assets under IFRS3 – Business Combinations and Fair Value Adjustments to Inventories, Receivables, Property, 
Plant and Equipment. Intangible assets relate principally to customer relationships and technology.
All intangible assets were recognised at their respective fair values. The residual excess of total cost over the fair value of net assets acquired 
is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements. Goodwill represents the value of synergies and assembled workforces acquired.
The acquisition during the year contributed £45.6 million of revenue and £9.9 million to the Group’s profit before tax for the period 
between the date of acquisition and the Balance Sheet date.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group revenues and profits before tax for the year would have 
been approximately £510.4 million and £97.2 million respectively. This information is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations 
that would have occurred had the operations been acquired at the start of the year, nor of the future results of the combined operations.
34. Pensions
Within the UK, the Group formerly operated two defined benefit schemes, the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme (the “Staff Scheme”) 
and the Chemring Group Executive Pension Scheme (the “Executive Scheme”) for part of the year. The schemes were merged on 
6 April 2009. All assets (£5.3 million) and liabilities (£6.8 million) of the Executive Scheme were transferred to the Staff Scheme on this 
date. The Executive Scheme was wound up on 28 July 2009. No members of either scheme were adversely affected by this merger. 
In Germany, Chemring Defence Germany GmbH operates a defined benefit scheme (the “Chemring Defence Germany Scheme”) 
and in Norway, Chemring Nobel AS operates a defined benefit scheme (the “Chemring Nobel Scheme”). The other UK and overseas 
arrangements are all defined contribution schemes. 
The Staff Scheme is a funded scheme and the assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee administered fund. A full actuarial 
valuation for the Staff Scheme as at 6 April 2006 has been prepared and updated to 31 October 2009 by a qualified actuary, using the 
projected unit credit method. The main assumptions for the scheme are detailed below.
The Staff Scheme triennial valuation at 6 April 2009 is currently being progressed, and is expected to be signed-off in the coming 
months. The Group increased the value of its bank guarantee to the Staff Scheme from £6.0 million to £7.2 million during the year as a 
consequence of the merger of the Staff Scheme and the Executive Scheme on 6 April 2009. The guarantee may be drawn upon in certain 
events of default by the Company. The Group has also placed £5.0 million in an escrow account to provide additional funding for the 
Staff Scheme in the event of a default (see Note 20). Since the year end, the Company has placed an additional £5.0 million in the escrow 
account in accordance with the agreed funding plan for the Staff Scheme.
The Chemring Defence Germany Scheme is an unfunded scheme. The actuarial liability has been calculated at 31 October 2009 by a 
qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. The main assumptions used were a discount rate of 5.3%, inflation rate of 
1.8% and rate of increase in deferred pensions of nil%. The net deficit of the Chemring Defence Germany Scheme was £1.2 million at 
31 October 2009 (2008: £1.1 million).
The Chemring Nobel Scheme is an unfunded scheme. The actuarial liability has been calculated at 31 October 2009 by a qualified 
actuary using the projected unit credit method. The main assumptions used were a discount rate of 4.4%, inflation rate of 2.75% 
and rate of increase in deferred pensions of 1.3%. The net deficit of the Chemring Nobel Scheme was £1.5 million at 31 October 2009 
(2008: £1.4 million).
The amount recognised in the Balance Sheet in respect of the Group’s defined benefit schemes is as follows:
2009
£m
2008
£m
2007
£m
Present value of funded obligations (63.0) (42.0) (48.3)
Fair value of scheme assets 34.9 28.4 35.0
Net liability recognised in the Balance Sheet (28.1) (13.6) (13.3)
An analysis of the net liabilities recognised is as follows:
2009
£m
2008
£m
Change
£m
Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme (25.4) (9.7) (15.7)
Chemring Group Executive Pension Scheme* - (1.4) 1.4
Chemring Defence Germany Pension Scheme (1.2) (1.1) (0.1)
Chemring Nobel AS Pension Scheme (1.5) (1.4) (0.1)
Net liability recognised in the Balance Sheet (28.1) (13.6) (14.5)
* Transferred to the Staff Scheme on 6 April 2009 Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
84
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
34. Pensions continued
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of the Group’s defined benefit schemes are as follows:
2009
£m
2008
£m
Amounts included within operating profit:
Current service cost (0.6) (0.9)
Amounts included as other finance costs:
Expected return on scheme assets 1.8 2.0
Discount on scheme liabilities (3.1) (2.7)
(1.3) (0.7)
Net charge (1.9) (1.6)
Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense are as follows:
(i)  scheme assets at the Balance Sheet date;
(ii) present value of the scheme liabilities at the Balance Sheet date.
2009
£m
2008
£m
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets (i) 4.0 (9.9)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities (ii) (18.1) 9.8
Actuarial loss recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense (14.1) (0.1)
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: 
2009
£m
2008
£m
Opening defined benefit obligations (42.0) (48.3)
Opening adjustment to Chemring Nobel defined benefit obligations - (0.7)
Service cost (0.6) (0.9)
Interest cost (3.1) (2.7)
Contributions from scheme members (0.6) (0.6)
Actuarial gains and losses (18.1) 9.8
Benefits paid 1.4 1.4
Closing defined benefit obligations (63.0) (42.0)
Movements in the fair value of the schemes’ assets were as follows: 
2009
£m
2008
£m
Opening fair value of schemes’ assets 28.4 35.0
Opening adjustment of Chemring Nobel scheme assets - 0.7
Expected return on scheme assets 1.8 2.0
Actuarial gains and losses 4.0 (9.9)
Contributions from scheme members 0.6 0.6
Contributions from sponsoring companies 1.5 1.4
Benefits paid (1.4) (1.4)
34.9 28.4 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
85
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The total scheme assets updated to 31 October along with the expected rates of return on assets were as follows:
2009 2008 2007
Long term rate of
return expected
£m
Long term rate of
return expected
£m
Long term rate of
return expected
£m
Equities 8.4% 24.7 8.4% 19.9 6.8% 24.5
Bonds 4.9% 10.2 4.9% 8.5 4.8% 10.5
Total fair value of assets 34.9 28.4 35.0
The expected rates of return are determined by reference to relevant published indices. The overall expected rate of return is calculated 
by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the scheme’s investment portfolio.
History of experience gains and losses: 
2009
£m
2008
£m
2007
£m
2006
£m
2005
£m
Present value of funded obligations (63.0) (42.0) (48.3) (48.5) (47.6)
Fair value of scheme assets 34.9 28.4 35.0 32.2 27.4
Deficit in the schemes (28.1) (13.6) (13.3) (16.3) (20.2)
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities - - - 5.5 (0.3)
Percentage of scheme liabilities - - - 11.2% 0.7%
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme assets 4.2 (9.9) 0.3 2.2 2.2
Percentage of scheme assets 12.0% (34.9)% 0.9% 6.9% 8.0%
Analysis of movement in the deficit in the schemes during the year: 
2009
£m
2008
£m
Opening deficit in schemes (13.6) (13.3)
Current service cost (0.6) (0.9)
Contributions 1.6 1.4
Other finance costs (1.4) (0.7)
Actuarial loss (14.1) (0.1)
Closing deficit in the schemes (28.1) (13.6)
The principal assumptions used in the actuarial valuation of the Staff Scheme were as follows:
2009
£m
2008
£m
Discount rate 5.6% 7.4%
Rate of increase in salaries 4.5% 4.95%
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 3.45% 3.4%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (where applicable) 3.45% 3.4%
Inflation assumption 3.5% 3.45%
Expected return on scheme assets 7.3% 7.3%
In determining the pension liabilities the Group uses mortality assumptions which are based on published mortality tables. For the 
Staff Scheme, the actuarial table currently used is PA92(YOB)MC+1, with a 1% underpin.
The assumption considered to be the most significant is the discount rate adopted. If the discount rate in the scheme was to change by 
0.1% then it is predicted that the deficit in the scheme would change by approximately £1.3 million. A change in the rate of inflation by 0.1% 
is predicted to change the deficit by approximately £1.0 million.
The Group anticipates contributions to the defined benefit schemes for the year ending 31 October 2010 will be £1.9 million 
(2008: £1.7 million). Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
86
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
35. Self insurance
The Group is self insured through its captive insurance company CHG Insurance Limited, based in Guernsey. The Group has been self 
insured for the first £2.5 million of material damage and business interruption cover, subject to a maximum liability of £3.5 million in any 
one year, since 31 October 2001. Insurance cover in respect of this risk at a level over that disclosed here is placed with external insurers.
36. Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note. 
Trading transactions
There are no trading activities between the Group and its associate.
Remuneration of key management personnel 
The remuneration of the executive directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each 
of the categories specified in IAS24 Related Party Disclosures. Further information on the remuneration of individual directors is provided 
in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 47.
The directors of the Company had no material transactions with the Company during the year other than as a result of service agreements. 
The remuneration of the executive directors is determined by the Remuneration Committee having regard to the performance of the 
individuals and market trends.
2009
£m
2008
£m
Remuneration of the executive directors 1.2 0.9
Share-based payments 0.1 0.1
Total 1.3 1.0
37. Post balance sheet events
Private placement of loan notes
On 19 November 2009 the Group completed a private placement of $280 million of fixed interest loan notes with a number of 
institutional investors.
$80 million of the loan notes will mature in November 2016, and $200 million will mature in November 2019. The total issue carries 
an interest rate of approximately 5.5%, a more favourable rate than the Group currently enjoys. The proceeds were used to fund the 
acquisition of Hi-Shear Technology Corporation, repay existing short and medium term debt, and provide additional working capital 
facilities for the Group.
Acquisition of Hi-Shear Technology Corporation (“Hi-Shear”)
On 25 November 2009 the Group completed the purchase of the entire stock capital of Hi-Shear for a cash consideration of $132 million. 
As a technology business the net book value of the assets acquired was minimal therefore a significant intangible asset is expected. 
The fair values of the acquisition are currently being calculated.
Full disclosure of the acquisition and the analysis of assets acquired will be included in the 2010 Interim Report. 
Conditional acquisition of The Allied Defense Group, Inc.
On 19 January 2010 the Group announced the conditional acquisition of The Allied Defense Group, Inc. for a cash consideration of 
$59 million. The consideration for this acquisition will also be funded from the recent loan note issue. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
87
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Independent Auditors’ Report on the 
Parent Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 October 2009
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members 
of Chemring Group PLC
We have audited the parent company financial statements of 
Chemring Group PLC for the year ended 31 October 2009 which 
comprise the Balance Sheet, the Statement of Total Recognised 
Gains and Losses, the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ 
Funds and the related Notes 1 to 13. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable 
law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3, Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, 
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent 
company financial statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the parent 
company financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
(APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the financial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the parent company’s 
affairs as at 31 October 2009;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in 
our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company; or
• the parent company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Andrew Gordon (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Southampton, United Kingdom
19 January 2010 Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
88
Parent Company Balance Sheet (under UK GAAP)
as at 31 October 2009
Note

£m
2009
£m

£m
2008
£m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 2 0.7 0.5
Investments 3 147.2 114.0
147.9 114.5
Current assets
Debtors 5 232.0 237.4
Creditors due within one year 6 (82.7) (39.2)
Net current assets 149.3 198.2
Total assets less current liabilities 297.2 312.7
Creditors due after more than one year 7 (160.0) (163.6)
137.2 149.1
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 8 1.8 1.8
Reserves
Share premium account 9 120.3 119.8
Special capital reserve 9 12.9 12.9
Hedge reserve 9 (2.1) (1.7)
Profit and loss account 9 9.5 22.0
140.6 153.0
Own shares 10 (5.2) (5.7)
135.4 147.3
Shareholders’ funds 137.2 149.1
These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 19 January 2010.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Chemring Group PLC (registered number 86662)
D J Price
P A Rayner Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
89
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Note
2009
£m
2008
£m
Profit for the financial year 9 2.1 11.5
Own shares 10 0.5 (2.9)
Losses on cash flow hedges 9 (0.4) (3.4)
Deferred tax on cash flow hedges 11 - 0.7
Tax debits on items taken directly to reserves (0.7) -
Additional charge due to treasury shares (0.7) -
Total recognised gains and losses for the year 0.8 5.9
Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
Note
2009
£m
2008
£m
Profit for the financial year 2.1 11.5
Dividends (13.8) (9.3)
(Loss)/profit for the year (11.7) 2.2
Other recognised losses 9 (1.8) (2.7)
Ordinary shares issued 8 - 0.2
Share premium arising 9 0.5 59.3
Share-based payments (net of deferred tax) 0.6 1.0
Own shares 10 0.5 (2.9)
Net (reduction in)/addition to shareholders’ funds (11.9) 57.1
Opening shareholders’ funds 149.1 92.0
Closing shareholders’ funds 137.2 149.1
Profit attributable to shareholders
In accordance with the concession granted under the Companies Act 2006, section 408, the profit and loss account of Chemring Group PLC 
has not been presented separately in these financial statements. There is no material difference between the results disclosed and the 
results on an unmodified historical cost basis.
Cash flow statement
In accordance with the exemption under FRS1 the Company’s cash flow statement has not been presented separately in these 
financial statements.
Parent Company Statement of 
Total Recognised Gains and Losses
for the year ended 31 October 2009 Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
90
1. Chemring Group PLC accounting policies
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
applicable United Kingdom accounting standards. The particular 
accounting policies adopted have been applied consistently 
throughout the current and previous year and are described below.
Accounting convention
The financial statements are prepared under the historical 
cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of property, 
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable 
accounting standards (UK GAAP).
Revenue recognition
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the 
principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, 
which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash 
receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to its net 
carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the 
shareholder’s rights to receive payment have been established.
Tangible fixed assets
Other than revalued land and buildings, property, plant and 
equipment are held at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
any recognised impairment loss. No depreciation is provided on 
freehold land. On other assets depreciation is provided at rates 
calculated to write down their cost or valuation to their estimated 
residual values by equal instalments over their estimated economic 
useful lives, which are considered to be:
Freehold buildings  - up to 50 years
Leasehold buildings  - the period of the lease
Plant and equipment - 10 years
Investment in Group undertakings
Investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment 
in value.
Operating leases
Operating lease rental charges are taken to the profit and loss 
account on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Provisions
A provision is recognised when the Company has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable 
that settlement will be required of an amount that can be reliably 
estimated. Long term liabilities and provisions are discounted when 
the impact is material.
Current tax
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is 
provided for at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using 
the tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantially 
enacted, by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided in full at the anticipated tax rates on 
differences arising from the inclusion of items of income and 
expenditure in tax computations in periods different from those in 
which they are included in the financial statements. Deferred tax 
is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation 
of fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell the asset. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Special capital reserve
The special capital reserve was created as part of a capital 
reduction scheme involving the cancellation of the share premium 
account which was approved by the Court in 1986, in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Foreign currencies
The functional currency of the Company is sterling. Transactions 
in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates ruling 
at the date of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the Balance Sheet date 
are translated at the rates ruling at that date. These translation 
differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
Derivative financial instruments
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to reduce 
exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements. 
The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial 
instruments for speculative purposes.
For a forward foreign exchange contract to be treated as a hedge 
the instrument must be related to actual foreign currency assets 
or liabilities or to a probable commitment. It must involve the same 
currency or similar currencies as the hedged item and must also 
reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the 
Company’s operations. Gains and losses arising on these contracts 
are deferred and recognised in the profit and loss account, or as 
adjustments to the carrying amount of fixed assets, only when 
the hedged transaction has itself been reflected in the Company’s 
financial statements.
For an interest rate swap to be treated as a hedge the instrument 
must be related to actual assets or liabilities or a probable 
commitment and must change the nature of the interst rate by 
converting a fixed rate to a variable rate or vice versa. Interest 
differentials under these swaps are recognised by adjusting new 
interest payable over the periods of the contracts.
If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, for 
example because the underlying hedged position is eliminated, 
the instrument is marked to market and any resulting profit or loss 
recognised at that time.
Pensions
The Company operates defined benefit pension schemes. 
The defined benefit schemes are multi-employer schemes including 
employees of other Group companies. It is not considered possible 
to allocate scheme assets and liabilities between the various 
companies and accordingly schemes are accounted for as though 
they were defined contribution schemes. The amount charged to 
the profit and loss account is the contribution payable in the year. 
Differences between amounts payable and actually paid are shown 
as accruals or prepayments in the Balance Sheet.
Share-based compensation
For grants made under the Company’s share-based remuneration 
schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value of options awarded 
at the time of grant are charged to the profit and loss account. 
The valuation of the options utilises a methodology based on the 
Black-Scholes model.
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 October 2009 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
91
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
2. Tangible assets
Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 November 2008 0.2 0.9 1.1
Additions 0.2 0.1 0.3
At 31 October 2009 0.4 1.0 1.4
Depreciation
At 1 November 2008 - 0.6 0.6
Charge for the year - 0.1 0.1
At 31 October 2009 - 0.7 0.7
Net book value
At 31 October 2009 0.4 0.3 0.7
At 31 October 2008 0.2 0.3 0.5
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 October 2009 (2008: nil).
Land and buildings represent leasehold improvements.
3. Investments
Shares in
subsidiary
undertakings
£m
Loans to 
subsidiary
undertakings
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 November 2008 126.9 6.3 133.2
Acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings 24.8 - 24.8
Foreign exchange* 8.4 - 8.4
At 31 October 2009 160.1 6.3 166.4
Provision for impairment
At 1 November 2008 and 31 October 2009 19.2 - 19.2
Net book value
At 31 October 2009 140.9 6.3 147.2
At 31 October 2008 107.7 6.3 114.0
* The Company has Euro-denominated borrowings which it has designated as a hedge of the net investment in its Italian subsidiary, Simmel Difesa S.p.A. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
92
4. Investments in Group undertakings
The trading subsidiary undertakings held at 31 October 2009 are: 
Trading subsidiary undertaking
Country of incorporation 
(or registration) 
and operation
% of issued ordinary
share capital controlled by
Chemring Group PLC Activity
Chemring Countermeasures Ltd England 100 Countermeasures
Chemring Defence UK Ltd England 100 Energetics
Chemring Marine Ltd England 100 Energetics
*Chemring EOD Ltd England 100 Energetics
Chemring Energetics UK Ltd Scotland 100 Energetics
*Chemring Defence Germany GmbH Germany 100 Energetics
*Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. USA 100 Countermeasures
*Kilgore Flares Company LLC USA 100 Countermeasures and energetics
*Technical Ordnance, Inc. USA 100 Energetics
*Titan Dynamics Systems, Inc. USA 100 Energetics
*Scot, Inc. USA 100 Energetics
*Martin Electronics, Inc. USA 100 Energetics
*Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. USA 100 Energetics
*Chemring Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100 Countermeasures and energetics
*Chemring Defence Spain S.L. Spain 100 Energetics
Simmel Difesa S.p.A. Italy 100 Energetics
*Chemring Nobel AS Norway 100 Energetics
Associated undertaking
CIRRA S.A. France 49 Countermeasures
* Investments held by a subsidiary company
The directors consider that the carrying value of the investments does not exceed their fair value.
5. Debtors
2009
£m
2008
£m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 222.8 231.5
Group relief receivable 4.9 2.2
Deferred tax asset (see Note 11) 1.4 1.5
Other debtors 2.9 1.6
Prepayments and accrued income - 0.6
232.0 237.4
A financial instrument asset of £0.4 million (2008: £nil) is recognised within other debtors in respect of the fair value of interest rate 
swaps (see Note 24 of the Group financial statements). The directors consider that the carrying value of the debtors approximates to their 
fair value. Only the amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings are due after more than one year.
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 October 2009 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
93
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
6. Creditors due within one year
2009
£m
2008
£m
Bank overdrafts 36.5 1.1
Bank loans 32.9 17.7
Trade creditors 2.1 1.1
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 1.4 6.4
Other creditors 1.5 8.5
Other tax and Social Security 0.3 0.1
Accruals and deferred income 8.0 4.3
82.7 39.2
A financial instrument liability of £1.1 million (2008: £8.1 million) is recognised in other creditors in respect of the fair value of derivative 
financial instruments (see Note 24 of the Group financial statements).
Bank loans and overdrafts held with Bank of Scotland are secured by a debenture over the assets of certain of the Group’s subsidiaries 
and are also subject to cross guarantees between subsidiaries. Further information on the borrowing facilities can be found in Note 21 of 
the Group financial statements.
7. Creditors due after more than one year
2009
£m
2008
£m
Derivative financial instruments (see Note 24 of the Group financial statements) 3.7 3.0
Medium term loan 53.6 71.1
US loan notes 88.5 89.4
Preference shares (62,500 shares of £1 each) 0.1 0.1
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 14.1 -
160.0 163.6
The cumulative preference shares carry an entitlement to a dividend at the rate of 7p per share per annum, payable in equal instalments 
on 30 April and 31 October each year. Holders of the preference shares have the right on winding-up to receive, in priority to any other 
classes of shares, the sum of £1 per share together with any arrears of dividends.
2009
£m
2008
£m
Borrowings falling due within:
One year 69.4 18.8
One to two years 36.0 19.8
Two to five years 20.8 33.1
After five years 88.5 107.6
214.7 179.3 Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
94
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 October 2009
8. Called-up share capital
2009
£m
2008
£m
Authorised
43,000,000 ordinary shares of 5p each 2.2 2.2
Issued, allotted and fully paid
35,585,832 (2008: 35,535,699) ordinary shares of 5p each 1.8 1.8
The preference shares are presented as a liability (see Note 7) and accordingly are excluded from called-up share capital in the 
Balance Sheet.
Share options
The following options to subscribe for the Company’s ordinary shares granted under the Group’s share-based incentive schemes were 
outstanding at 31 October 2009:
The Chemring Group Performance Share Plan
Date of award
Number of ordinary 
shares under award
Vesting price 
per share 
£
Date when awards 
will vest
27 Sep 2006 7,256 nil 27 Sep 2009
24 Jan 2007 92,755 nil 24 Jan 2010 
23 Jan 2008 95,562 nil 23 Jan 2011
21 Jan 2009 150,404 nil 21 Jan 2012
24 Jun 2009 12,653 nil 24 Jun 2012
The Chemring Group 2008 UK Sharesave Plan
Date of grant
Number of ordinary 
shares under option
Excercise price 
per share 
£
Dates between which 
options may be exercised
1 Aug 2008 20,240 18.68 1 Oct 2011–1 Apr 2012
1 Aug 2008 24,284 18.68 1 Oct 2013–1 Apr 2014
31 Jul 2009 19,826 17.22 1Oct 2012–1 Apr 2013
31 Jul 2009 13,686 17.22 1 Oct 2014–1 Apr 2015
The Chemring Group 2008 US Stock Purchase Plan
Date of grant
Number of ordinary 
shares under option
Excercise price 
per share 
£
Dates between which 
options may be exercised
16 Sep 2008 6,501 18.49 16 Sep 2010–15 Dec 2010
31 Jul 2009 10,345 17.12 31 Jul 2011–30 Oct 2011
Full details of the schemes are disclosed in Note 32 of the Group financial statements. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
95
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
9. Reserves
Share premium
account
£m
Special capital
reserve
£m
Hedging reserve
£m
Profit and loss
account
£m
Total
£m
At 1 November 2008 119.8 12.9 (1.7) 22.0 153.0
Ordinary shares issued 0.5 - - - 0.5
Profit for the year - - - 2.1 2.1
Decrease in fair value of hedging reserve - - (0.4) 0.4 -
Dividends paid - - - (13.8) (13.8)
Other recognised losses - - - (1.8) (1.8)
Cost of share-based payments - - - 0.9 0.9
Deferred tax on share-based payment transactions - - - (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 October 2009 120.3 12.9 (2.1) 9.5 140.6
The share premium account and special capital reserve are not distributable. The Company generated a profit for the financial year of 
£2.1 million (2008: £11.5 million). Dividends from subsidiary undertakings of £1.6 million (2008: £11.2 million) were received in the year.
The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 October 2009 of 36p per share will, if approved, absorb approximately 
£12.7 million of shareholders’ funds. The dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and accordingly 
has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. Since the year end, the company has received dividends from 
subsidiaries, totalling £20 million to allow payment of the dividend.
10. Own shares
2009
£m
2008
£m
Balance at 1 November 2008 5.7 2.8
Acquired in the year 1.5 2.9
Issued in the year to satisfy employee share awards (2.0) -
Balance at 31 October 2009 5.2 5.7
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Chemring Group PLC purchased in the market and held by the Group to satisfy 
awards under the Group’s share-based incentive schemes (see Note 32 of the Group financial statements). During the year 78,301 
(2008: 160,000) ordinary shares were acquired, and 115,170 (2008: nil) ordinary shares were distributed following the vesting of awards 
under the Chemring Group Performance Share Plan. The total number of ordinary shares held in treasury at 31 October 2009 was 273,131 
(2008: 310,000) with an average rate of £18.17 (2008: £18.19) per share. This represents 0.8% of the total issued and fully-paid ordinary 
share capital.
11. Deferred tax
2009
£m
2008
£m
Movements in deferred tax liabilities/(assets) are as follows:
At 1 November 2008 (1.5) (1.3)
Charge to profit and loss account 0.1 0.5
Credit to Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses - (0.7)
At 31 October 2009 (1.4) (1.5)
The amount provided represents:
Other timing differences (1.4) (1.5) Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
96
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 October 2009
12. Staff costs
2009
Number
2008
Number
The average monthly number of employees (including executive directors) was:
Total 31 25
2009
£m
2008
£m
The costs incurred in respect of these employees were:
Wages and salaries 3.2 2.4
Social security costs 0.3 0.3
Other pension costs 0.6 0.3
4.1 3.0
Disclosures in respect of directors’ emoluments can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 47 of the Group 
financial statements.
13. Post balance sheet events
On 19 November 2009 the Company completed a private placement of $280 million of fixed interest loan notes with a number of 
institutional investors. Further details are included in Note 37 of the Group financial statements.  Find out more online
For more information about Chemring Group PLC, please visit  
www.chemring.co.uk where you can access the latest 
shareholder information:
• Current share price
• Key financial information
• Financial calendar
• Shareholder services and notices
• Corporate governance
• RSS news feeds
• Results and presentations
• Analysts’ forecasts
• Regulatory news
Chemring Group PLC’s Annual Report and Accounts 2009 can 
also be viewed online at www.chemring.co.uk/investors in a 
choice of formats:
• Fully-functional micro-site
• Downloadable PDF 
You can also view and download the Notice for our 
Annual General Meeting.
© Chemring Group PLC 2010
The information in this document is the property of Chemring Group PLC and may not be copied or communicated to a third party 
or used for any purpose other than that for which it is supplied without the express written consent of Chemring Group PLC. 
This information is given in good faith based upon the latest information available to Chemring Group PLC; no warranty or 
representation is given concerning such information, which must not be taken as establishing any contractual or other commitment 
binding upon Chemring Group PLC or any of its subsidiary or associated companies.
Printed on FSC certified Chorus Lux Silk; a paper bleached using a chlorine free process. 100% of the inks 
used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of 
any waste associated with this production will be recycled. The printer is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral® 
Company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001.
A world-leading defence company
Chemring is a global group that specialises in the 
manufacture of energetic material products and 
countermeasures. We provide solutions for highly 
demanding customer requirements in defence, 
security and safety markets. We are a world-leading 
defence company involved in advanced development 
programmes in the UK, USA, Europe and Australia.
Our existing businesses provide strong organic 
growth and we are continuing our acquisition strategy 
in the fast-growing energetics sector.
NIITEK won orders worth over $120m
NIITEK had an excellent year, 
successfully delivering its first contract 
for 30 Husky Mounted Detection Systems 
(HMDS) in September 2009 to the 
US Army and subsequently receiving 
a follow-on contract for a further 50 
systems. With over 30 HMDS units now 
deployed on counter-IED operations, 
NIITEK has made an impressive 
contribution to the Group.
For more information see page 16
Strong growth at Simmel Difesa
Simmel Difesa had another excellent year, 
delivering over £50 million of pyrotechnic 
products. This was an increase of 96% 
on the previous year, and included 70% 
growth in the supply of 81mm illuminating 
rounds to our UK customers. Orders for 
a further €42 million have been received 
this year, and underpin production of our 
81mm pyrotechnic mortar rounds until 
the end of 2011.
For more information see page 18
Acquisition of Hi-Shear
In September, we announced the 
acquisition of Hi-Shear, which 
will enhance our capability in the space 
sector as the sole qualified supplier of 
initiators to NASA. It also adds a position 
in the US ballistic missile defence 
market, as the sole supplier of key 
components for the PAC-3 missile. 
The acquisition was completed in 
November 2009.
For more information see page 18
Highlights
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
97
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Other information
Glossary of terms
BES Battlefield effects simulation 
CAD/PADs  Cartridge-actuated and propellant-actuated devices
EOD Explosive ordnance disposal
ESAF Electronic safe/arm fuze 
GPR Ground penetrating radar
HE High explosive
HEDP High explosive dual purpose
HMDS Husky Mounted Detection System 
HMX High melting explosive 
IDIQ Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity
IED Improvised explosive device
IM Insensitive munitions
IR Infra-red
JSF Joint Strike Fighter
LAP Load, assemble and pack
MANPADs Man-portable air defence systems
MTV Magnesium teflon viton
NAMSA NATO Maintenance and Supply Agency
NASA National Aeronautics and Space Administration
NLAW Next Generation Light Anti-Tank Weapon
OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PAAMS Principal Anti-Air Missile System
PAC-3 Patriot Advanced Capability 3
PEMBS Portable explosive minefield breaching systems
RDX Research department explosive
RF Radio frequency
ROV Remotely operated vehicle
UK MoD United Kingdom Ministry of Defence
US DoD United States Department of Defense
UXO Unexploded ordnance Chemring Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chemring Group PLC
Chemring House, 1500 Parkway, Whiteley, 
Fareham, Hampshire PO15 7AF, United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1489 881880
Fax: +44 (0)1489 881123
www.chemring.co.uk
Chemring Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Energetic growth Delivering global protection
