 Chemring Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Chemring Group PLC
Chemring House, 1500 Parkway, Whiteley, 
Fareham, Hampshire PO15 7AF, United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1489 881880
Fax: +44 (0)1489 881123
www.chemring.co.uk
Chemring Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Developing international markets Delivering global protection Strong sales growth at NIITEK
NIITEK had an outstanding year, 
increasing its revenue by 124% to 
£102 million, driven by the urgent 
demand from the US and Canadian 
Armies for the Husky Mounted Detection 
System (HMDS) ground penetrating 
radars for counter-IED operations.
For more information see page 6
Growth in the Middle East
Our non-NATO customers represent the 
largest opportunity for growth over the 
next five years. In 2010, our revenues 
from Middle East and Far East customers 
grew by over 60% and we believe that 
future growth in these regions should 
be substantial.
For more information see page 5
Acquisition of Roke
In September we completed the acquisition 
of Roke, a leading UK developer of 
advanced sensors, signal processing, 
communications and network solutions. 
The acquisition provides the Group with a 
very broad range of capabilities and market 
access across our business segments.
For more information see page 4
© Chemring Group PLC 2011
The information in this document is the property of Chemring Group PLC and may not be copied or communicated to a third party 
or used for any purpose other than that for which it is supplied without the express written consent of Chemring Group PLC. 
This information is given in good faith based upon the latest information available to Chemring Group PLC; no warranty or 
representation is given concerning such information, which must not be taken as establishing any contractual or other commitment 
binding upon Chemring Group PLC or any of its subsidiary or associated companies.
Printed on FSC certified Chorus Lux Silk; a paper bleached using a chlorine free process. 100% of the inks 
used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of 
any waste associated with this production will be recycled. The printer is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral® 
Company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001.
A world-leading defence company
Chemring is a global group that specialises in the 
manufacture of energetic material products and 
countermeasures. We provide solutions for highly 
demanding customer requirements in defence, 
security and safety markets. We are a world-leading 
defence company involved in advanced development 
programmes in the UK, USA, Europe and Australia.
Our existing businesses provide strong organic 
growth and we are continuing our acquisition strategy 
in the fast-growing energetics sector.
Highlights
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
101
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
1
Business overview Other information Financial statements Corporate governance
2010 Financial highlights
Revenue
£597.1m +18%
£503.9m
£354.2m
£254.7m
£597.1m 2010
2009
2008
2007
Underlying profit before tax*
£116.8m +14%
2010
2009
2008
2007
£102.6m
£74.2m
£53.2m
£116.8m
Underlying operating cash flow
£126.1m +18%
2010
2009
2008
2007
£106.7m
£83.7m
£60.6m
£126.1m
Underlying earnings per ordinary share*
246p +15%
213p
160p
112p
246p 2010
2009
2008
2007
*  Before acquisition related costs, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and (loss)/gain on fair value movements on derivatives totalling 
£27.7 million (2009: £6.8 million).
Contents
Business overview
Chemring at a glance 2
Statement by the Chairman 4
Review by the Chief Executive 6
Our strategy 10
Market sectors
• Countermeasures 12 
• Counter-IED 14
• Pyrotechnics 16
• Munitions 18
Review by the Finance Director 20
Key performance indicators  24
Principal risks and uncertainties 25
Corporate Responsibility Review 28
Corporate governance
Directors and corporate information 32
Directors’ Report 34 
Directors’ Remuneration Report 37
Statement on Corporate Governance  46
Independent Auditors’ Report to the 
Members of Chemring Group PLC 50
Financial statements
Consolidated Income Statement 5 1
Consolidated Statement of   
Comprehensive Income 52
Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity 52
Consolidated Balance Sheet 53
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 54
Notes to the Consolidated   
Cash Flow Statement  55
Notes to the Group   
Financial Statements 56
Independent Auditors’ Report on the   
Parent Company Financial Statements 88
Parent Company Balance Sheet   
(under UK GAAP) 89
Parent Company Statement of   
Total Recognised Gains and Losses  90
Reconciliation of Movements in Parent 
Company Shareholders’ Funds 90
Notes to the Parent Company   
Financial Statements 9 1
Other information
Glossary of terms 98 Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
2
Countermeasures
Chemring is the world leader in the 
design, development and manufacture 
of advanced expendable countermeasures 
and countermeasure suites for protecting 
air, sea and land platforms against 
guided missile threats.
• Over 50% world market share 
• Largest supplier of airborne 
decoy countermeasures to the 
US Department of Defense and 
the UK Ministry of Defence 
• Technology leader in spectral, 
special material and thrusted flares 
for fixed-wing and rotary aircraft 
• Customers in 35 countries
Revenue
£196.3m
Proportion of 
Group revenue
33%
For more information see page 12
Chemring at a glance
Pyrotechnics
Chemring is a leading developer 
and manufacturer of pyrotechnics 
for space, safety systems, military 
training, screening, signalling and 
illumination applications.
• Leading supplier of low shock satellite 
separation products and NASA 
standard initiators
• Largest supplier of pyromechanisms 
for aircraft egress systems 
• Significant supplier of training 
products to the US Army and other 
NATO forces 
• Growing demand for advanced 
pyrotechnic rounds and payloads
Revenue
£170.0m
Proportion of 
Group revenue
29%
For more information see page 16
Counter-IED
Chemring is the leading supplier of 
vehicle–mounted Ground Penetrating 
Radar (GPR) detection systems and 
has advanced technologies in other IED 
detectors and counter-IED electronic 
countermeasures. We manufacture high 
reliability detonators, initiators and 
disrupters for demolition and explosive 
ordnance disposal. 
• Leader in vehicle-mounted 
GPR detection
• Leader in anti-IED technology 
development 
• New safer demolition stores developed 
and undergoing qualification
Revenue
£114.9m
Proportion of 
Group revenue
19%
For more information see page 14
Chemring operates 
in four market sectors: 
Countermeasures, Counter-IED, 
Pyrotechnics and Munitions. 
All our products are technically 
demanding, requiring high reliability 
and integrity, and the highest level 
of safety in manufacture and use. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
3
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Group revenue by sector 
2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
£170.0m
£173.2m
£114.9m
£61.2m
£196.3m
£183.5m
£115.9m
£86.0m
Countermeasures
Counter-IED
Pyrotechnics
Munitions
Munitions
Chemring offers a unique capability in 
supplying energetic materials, components 
and sub-systems to leading prime 
contractors. We also operate as a prime 
contractor in certain market niches.
• Manufacturer of critical components for 
PAC-3 anti-ballistic missile system
• Leader in materials development for 
insensitive munitions
• Market leader in naval ammunition 
Revenue
£115.9m
Proportion of 
Group revenue
19%
For more information see page 18 Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
4
• Roke – a leading UK developer of 
advanced sensors, signal processing, 
communications and network 
solutions for the countermeasures, 
counter-improvised explosive device 
(counter-IED), counter-terrorism and 
industrial markets.
These acquisitions greatly enhance the 
Group’s capabilities and market access 
across our chosen business segments, 
and are expected to make a significant 
contribution to our future growth strategy. 
Balance sheet, cash flow and debt
The Board is committed to maintaining 
a solid balance sheet, and the Group has 
once again produced a healthy underlying 
operating cashflow of £126.1 million, 
demonstrating the reliable strong cash 
generation of the businesses.
We chose to debt-fund our acquisitions during 
the year, principally utilising our $280 million 
of private placement loan notes which have 
a maturity date of 2016 and 2019. Whilst the 
cost of acquisitions has increased our gearing 
level to 95%, I am confident that, with our 
continued strong cash generation, this high 
level of gearing will reduce in 2011.
Our working capital facilities were due for 
renewal in March 2012 but recognising the 
significant corporate refinancing that is due 
to occur in the UK in the latter part of 2011 
and early 2012, we took the opportunity to 
refinance the Group’s facilities early and 
completed this on 14 January 2011. Our new 
facilities, which are unsecured, now have 
an extended maturity to April 2015 and are 
£55 million higher than before.
Group strategy
Over the last five years, the Group has 
achieved substantial growth through 
a well-defined strategy of double digit 
organic growth together with a focused and 
well-executed programme of acquisitions. 
The development of new products is an 
essential component of this organic growth 
and the 81% increase in our investment in 
research and development during the year 
should provide an exciting foundation for 
the future. We also intend to pursue further 
Statement by the Chairman
Over the last five years, the Group has achieved 
substantial growth through a well-defined strategy of 
double digit organic growth together with a focused 
and well-executed programme of acquisitions.
Highlights
• Revenue up 18% to £597.1 million
• Underlying operating profit* 
up 18% to £135.6 million
• Underlying profit before tax* 
up 14% to £116.8 million
• Underlying earnings per share* 
up 15% at 246p
• Profit before tax £89.1 million
• Basic earnings per share 189p
• Total dividend per share for the year 
up 18% at 59p 
Key information
Underlying profit before tax*
£116.8m
+14%
Underlying earnings per share*
246p
+15%
Dividend per ordinary share
59p
+18%
*  Before acquisition related costs, intangible 
amortisation arising from business 
combinations and (loss)/gain on fair 
value movements on derivatives totalling 
£27.7 million (2009: £6.8 million)
In my first Statement as Chairman, 
I am delighted to report that the Group 
increased its revenue by 18% to £597.1 million 
and generated an underlying operating 
profit* of £135.6 million, an increase of 18% 
on last year. Two thirds of the growth was 
organic. The Group’s underlying profit before 
tax* increased 14% to £116.8 million and its 
underlying earnings per share* rose 15% to 
246p. With the continuing strong growth in 
earnings, the Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 42p, which gives a total dividend 
for the year of 59p, an increase of 18% 
over last year.
The order intake for the Group increased by 
31% to a new annual record of £824.3 million, 
and we entered the 2011 financial year with 
an order book of £803.3 million, 44% higher 
than last year. The order book today has 
reached a new record high of £902 million 
12% higher than at the year end, and this 
underpins our confidence in the prospects 
for further growth in 2011.
Since my appointment as Chairman 
on 1 October 2010, I have taken the 
opportunity to visit many of our 
manufacturing operations around the 
world. I have been most impressed with 
what I have seen of the Group’s technical 
and manufacturing skills, and it has enabled 
me to observe the strong profit and growth 
culture which is at the heart of the Group’s 
excellent performance over many years. 
I feel confident that this characteristic will 
enable growth to continue in the future. 
The Group invested £177 million in the 
acquisition of five new businesses during 
the year; the three most significant were: 
• Hi-Shear Technology Corporation – a 
US-based, leading manufacturer of high 
reliability energetic products for use in 
key US space and defence programmes, 
including satellites, missile defence and 
aircrew egress; 
• Mecar – a manufacturer of medium and 
large calibre ammunition, particularly for 
modern, light armoured vehicles, based 
in Belgium; Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
5
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Prospects
Over the last twelve months, the 
European defence market has weakened 
considerably with many nations reducing 
or deferring defence expenditure as 
they struggle to cope with rising deficit 
problems. Recent announcements 
from the US Government on their 2012 
budget intentions have provided greater 
assurance in the future prospects for that 
market. We remain confident that the USA 
represents an area of future growth in all 
of our market segments. However, it is our 
non-NATO customers that represent the 
largest opportunity for growth over the 
next five years. In 2010, our revenues from 
Middle East and Far East customers grew by 
over 60% and we believe that future growth 
in these regions should be substantial.
Our closing order book increased 
substantially to £803 million and, since 
the year end, it has increased further to 
£902 million. This strong order book, our 
solid balance sheet and our proven strategy 
provide clear visibility of the prospects for 
2011 and should provide the foundation for 
further growth in the future.
P C F Hickson
Chairman
18 January 2011
acquisitions of selected companies that 
expand our high technology capabilities and 
market position, including the consolidation 
of fragmented markets. 
Board of directors
Ken Scobie retired as a director at the 
end of September, after thirteen years as 
Chairman. During that period, the Group 
has been transformed as a business and is 
now a significant worldwide manufacturing 
organisation, which has delivered 
substantial shareholder value consistently 
over a number of years. On behalf of the 
Board, I would like to pay tribute to Ken’s 
contribution to the Group’s development 
and to thank him for the leadership he has 
provided to the Board. We shall miss his 
wisdom and guidance, and wish him well in 
his retirement.
During the year, Air Marshal Sir Peter 
Norriss and Mr Much completed their 
second three year terms as non-executive 
directors. Their appointments were 
extended on a rolling basis, pending my 
appointment, to assist with a smooth 
transition. I will be considering succession 
plans for the non-executive directors over 
the forthcoming year but in the meantime, 
the knowledge and experience of all my 
fellow Board members is of considerable 
benefit as I continue to become more 
familiar with the Group. 
Dividends
In accordance with the Group’s established 
policy of increasing dividends commensurate 
with the growth in the Group’s profitability, 
the Board is recommending a final dividend 
for the year of 42p (2009: 36p). With the 
interim dividend paid of 17p (2009: 14p), 
this gives a total dividend for 2010 of 59p 
(2009: 50p), an increase of 18%, in line with 
the revenue and underlying operating profit* 
growth of 18% for the full year. The dividend 
is covered 4.2 times by underlying after tax 
earnings* and with a solid balance sheet and 
cash flow, the Group remains well positioned 
to increase its return to shareholders.  Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
6
Review by the Chief Executive
The Group performed well throughout the year – revenue from 
continuing operations grew by 18% to a record £597.1 million.
Group results
The Group performed well throughout the 
year, in spite of the downturn in European 
defence spending as the majority of 
governments looked to reduce their fiscal 
deficits. Revenue from continuing operations 
grew by 18% to a record £597.1 million. 
Over two thirds of this growth was organic, 
with strong contributions from both our 
Counter-Improvised Explosive Device (IED) 
and Munitions operations. There was a 
tremendous performance from our US 
subsidiary, NIITEK, which delivered over 
one hundred Husky Mounted Detection 
System (HMDS) ground penetrating radars 
to the US Army for counter-IED operations. 
The Group revenue continued to be second 
half weighted, with £341.2 million of revenue 
(57%) generated in the second six months 
of the year, similar to the average phasing 
achieved over the last five years.
The order intake for the Group during the 
year reached a new record of £824.3 million, 
up 31% on the previous year. Our Counter-IED 
division generated £178.5 million of order 
intake, of which £151.5 million related to 
the provision of ground penetrating radar 
for the US Army. Our Munitions division 
also had an excellent year with over 100% 
growth in order intake to £245.2 million, 
£145.1 million of which was awarded by 
Middle Eastern customers. Order intake in 
our Pyrotechnics division also reached a 
new record of £181.4 million, up 25% on last 
year and providing the highest level of order 
cover we have ever had going into a new 
financial year. Our Countermeasures division 
achieved an order intake of £219.2 million, 
which although lower than last year, did not 
include any of the large multi-year contracts 
that were awarded by the US and Australian 
governments in 2009.
The closing order book for the Group, 
therefore, reached £803.3 million, an 
increase of 44% on the previous year end, 
and this provides a solid foundation for the 
expected growth in 2011. 
Our Counter-IED division had an excellent 
year, achieving an 88% increase in revenue 
to a record level of £114.9 million, in spite of 
delays in the placement of orders. NIITEK had 
an outstanding year, increasing its revenue 
by 124% to £102 million, driven by urgent 
demand from the US and Canadian Armies 
for the HMDS ground penetrating radar to 
support peacekeeping operations. A new 
production facility was opened in July 2010 
and production has now increased to twenty 
HMDS units per month.
Our Munitions division also had a 
commendable year, with revenue up 35% to 
a new record of £115.9 million and growing 
demand for our products in most geographic 
areas. Deliveries of 40mm grenades and 
medium and large calibre ammunition to 
Middle East customers under new multi-year 
contracts were the main contributor. Sales of 
sub-systems contributed just over 47% of the 
revenue, with full round ammunition making 
up the remainder.
Our Pyrotechnics division generated 
revenue of £170 million, slightly below last 
year but still 77% higher than that achieved 
in 2008. Growth was achieved in aircraft 
safety systems and space pyrotechnics, 
which was offset by reduced deliveries of 
training products because of customer-
funded product upgrades and the relocation 
of some US production.
Our Countermeasures division delivered a 
steady performance, achieving a 7% increase 
in revenue to £196.3 million, in spite of 
the incidents that disrupted production at 
Kilgore and, earlier in the year, at Chemring 
Countermeasures in the UK. 
The underlying operating margin* achieved 
for the Group was 23%, similar to that 
achieved last year, and an underlying 
operating profit* of £135.6 million was 
generated, which was 18% higher than 
last year. Operating margins in the 
Countermeasures division rose slightly to 
30% and those in the Munitions division 
rose to 18%, reflecting the higher relative 
proportion of prime contracting (lower 
margin) business to that of component 
and sub-system business (higher margin). 
Pyrotechnics margins reduced slightly 
compared with the previous year to 24%, 
reflecting the timing of product improvement 
in key training products for the US Army. 
Margins in the Counter-IED division remained 
constant at 25%. We remain confident that 
the current level of profitability should be 
sustainable into the future.
Operational highlights
• Tremendous performance from our 
US subsidiary, NIITEK, which delivered 
over one hundred Husky Mounted 
Detection System (HMDS) ground 
penetrating radars.
• Our Munitions division also had an 
excellent year with over 100% growth 
in order intake to £245.2 million.
• With the acquisition of Roke, the 
number of qualified engineers and 
scientists employed by the Group 
increased to over 600.
• Capital investment in the year grew by 
22% to £40.9 million, which represents 
nearly 7% of Group revenue.
Key information
Year end order book
£803.3m
+44%
Revenue
£597.1m
+18%
Number of employees
4,283
+28%
*  Before acquisition related costs, intangible 
amortisation arising from business 
combinations and (loss)/gain on fair 
value movements on derivatives totalling 
£27.7 million (2009: £6.8 million) Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
7
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The underlying operating cash inflow during 
the year was excellent at £126.1 million, 
equivalent to a cash conversion rate of 
93% from underlying operating profit*. 
Our operating cash inflow in the second half 
was particularly strong, with an equivalent 
cash conversion of 117%.
Health and safety
The Board recognises that the highest 
levels of safety are required to protect 
our employees, our customers and the 
general public. We believe that all injuries 
and incidents are preventable, and we are 
strengthening our long term strategies to 
ensure that the Group continually improves 
its performance and reduces risk.
During the year, we continued with our 
implementation of formal management 
systems across the Group. With the exception 
of our newest acquisitions, all sites are 
certified to the environment management 
system ISO14001 and all but one have now 
been validated as compliant with the health 
and safety management system OHSAS18001 
The remaining site will achieve certification 
by the end of the first quarter of 2011. 
Our lost time incident rate (calculated 
using the US OSHA rules) continues 
to improve slowly from 1.13 to 1.06 
incidents per 100 employees. Six of our 
sites reported no lost days in the year, 
which is an excellent achievement. 
Whilst we take all incidents seriously, we 
pay particular attention to those where 
employees sustain injury due to an 
energetic event. We did, unfortunately, 
have three significant lost time events 
following unexpected ignitions during the 
year. One was at the Tennessee site of our 
US subsidiary, Kilgore; one was at our UK 
subsidiary, Chemring Countermeasures; 
and one was at our newly acquired Belgian 
subsidiary, Mecar. All such events are fully 
investigated and controls implemented to 
prevent reoccurrence. In the Kilgore incident, 
three employees were seriously hurt and 
continue to receive treatment. We wish them 
a rapid and complete recovery, and are doing 
all that we can to support them and their 
families through this difficult time. As Chief 
Executive, I am fully aware that it is my 
responsibility to ensure that every single 
one of our employees returns safely home at 
the end of every working day.
Revenue analysis
Revenue from US customers increased by 
25% during the year to £293.1 million, which 
now represents 49% of the total Group 
revenue. Sales to Middle East countries 
increased substantially during the year 
by 153% to £51.6 million, as deliveries on 
new multi-year supply contracts started. 
Revenue from UK customers decreased 
by 11% to £111.6 million, and the UK market 
now contributes only 19% of the total Group 
revenue. Revenue from European countries 
also decreased to £73.0 million during 
the year, a notable decrease on last year. 
These reductions were principally caused 
by the late timing of order placement by 
our main European customers. Given the 
weakness in European economies, we 
expect this trend to continue whilst the 
Middle East and Far East export markets 
continue to enjoy more favourable 
conditions. Revenues from Australia and the 
Far East increased by 13% to £44.1 million, 
reflecting increased deliveries of 40mm 
grenades to the Australian Army. 
Acquisitions
The Group made five acquisitions during 
the year; the three most significant 
were Hi-Shear Technology Corporation 
in California, Mecar S.A. in Belgium and 
Roke Manor Research Limited in the UK. 
Hi-Shear was acquired at the start of the 
financial year and has performed well during 
its first year of ownership. It provides the 
Group with some key product technologies 
and customer relationships that augment 
the existing pyrotechnics and munitions 
portfolios. It provides the US space 
programme with the NASA standard initiators 
and low-shock separation devices and does, 
therefore, have a strong relationship with 
NASA and the main US prime contractors. 
It also provides advanced electronic safety 
and arming fuzes for ballistic missile defence 
applications, which represent a buoyant 
market at the moment due to widespread 
concerns about growing threats from rogue 
states with nuclear missiles.
Mecar was acquired towards the end of the 
financial year, and will have a significant 
impact on our Munitions division in 2011. 
It provides an extensive range of mortar 
ammunition, and medium calibre and large 
calibre ammunition for light armoured 
vehicles (LAVs), including the ammunition 
used in the CMI 90mm Mk8 gun, which 
is fitted on the LAVs used by many 
non-NATO nations.
Roke was also acquired at the end of the 
financial year, and provides the Group 
with a very broad range of systems 
engineering, electronics, software and 
network design capability. Its electronic 
warfare capabilities will significantly enhance 
our Countermeasures division and allow 
expansion into a wider range of products. 
Its jamming and communications technology 
will significantly enhance our offering into the 
counter-IED market, and its sensor and data 
fusion capabilities will augment our detection 
technologies. Finally, Roke plays an important 
role in the UK cyber market, and the Group 
intends to develop a niche role in this rapidly 
expanding market. 
Research and development
Our strategy for future growth continues 
to rely on technology leadership and the 
rapid development of new products that 
meet the changing needs of our customers 
and displace those of our competitors. 
Our total expenditure on R&D grew by 81% 
to £34.2 million, which represents nearly 
6% of the total Group revenue. Internally-
funded R&D grew by 48% to £13.6 million, 
reflecting the strategic emphasis we 
continue to place on product innovation.
The two largest areas of funding are in our 
Countermeasures and Counter-IED divisions, 
where NIITEK and Chemring Countermeasures 
have been particularly successful in 
attracting customer-funded development 
of new products and technology for ground 
penetrating radar and naval countermeasures 
respectively. We also continue to place 
considerable emphasis on our partnerships 
with academic institutions. Our long term 
partnership with Cranfield University 
continues to expand, and we now have 
sixteen programmes running across areas of 
interest relevant to all four of our divisions. Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
8
Review by the Chief Executive
continued
I would like to extend my personal thanks to all members 
of staff for their dedication and hard work in delivering 
the 2010 results. 
Capital investment
Capital investment in the year grew by 
22% to £40.9 million, which represents 
nearly 7% of Group revenue. £18.8 million 
of the investment was taken up with the 
continuing build of the new countermeasures 
manufacturing facilities at Salisbury in the 
UK, and at Lara in Australia. These facilities 
will be commissioned in 2011, and will provide 
automated manufacturing of the full range 
of our non-US magnesium and spectral 
flares, greatly reducing the exposure of our 
staff to risks and improving manufacturing 
productivity. Both facilities will provide a 
substantial improvement in operational 
efficiency and a flexible production surge 
capability. The Australian facility was recently 
audited by BAE Systems North America, who 
gave positive feedback on its suitability for 
second-source provision on the multi-national 
Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) programme.
A second principal area of investment was 
associated with the development of our 
Chemring Energetics facility in Scotland, 
where we have authorised an £11 million 
investment, spread over the 2010 and 2011 
financial years. The investment covers four 
new facilities: primary explosives facilities 
for the manufacture of detonators and 
initiators; the plastic explosives pressing 
facility for the manufacture of demolition 
stores; the Meccanite expansion facility for 
the manufacture of propellants; and the 
high explosive pressing facility for warhead 
manufacture. All of these facilities provide 
new manufacturing capabilities to the site and 
the capacity to meet the substantial growth 
in revenue that is expected in the future. 
Staff and employees
At the end of 2010, the Group employed 
a total of 4,283 people, 28% higher 
than the previous year end, although the 
majority of this increase was attributable 
to the acquisition of Hi-Shear, Mecar and 
Roke during the year. 45% of the staff 
are US-based, which is broadly in line with 
the geographic revenue profile. With the 
acquisition of Roke, the number of qualified 
engineers and scientists employed by the 
Group increased to over 600, about 14% 
of the Group. 
Although 80% of our revenue is currently 
generated with NATO countries, the fastest 
growth is taking place in the Middle East 
and the Far East, where nations continue to 
achieve double-digit increases in their Gross 
Domestic Product and regional instability 
justifies additional defence expenditure. 
With oil prices moving towards $100 per 
barrel, Middle East governments are relatively 
well-funded and should provide opportunities 
for growth over the next five to ten years. 
Countermeasures
In Afghanistan, the US Government has 
increased the number of troops deployed 
by 30,000, and taken the NATO deployment 
above 130,000. The US also deployed an 
additional two hundred and fifty helicopters 
and this should strengthen demand for 
flares to protect these particular platforms. 
Although the withdrawal of troops will 
start in 2011, both the US and the UK 
have indicated that they will maintain a 
substantial presence until around 2015. 
The major growth over the next five 
years will, however, be associated with 
the supply of flares and countermeasures 
to protect fast jets. These are principally 
used in operations against sophisticated 
opponents, where war stocks need to be in 
place for high volume usage during intense 
battle conditions. The entry-into-service 
of the Typhoon aircraft is one example, 
with large numbers of aircraft starting 
operations shortly within both Europe 
and the Middle East. The F-35 Joint Strike 
Fighter (JSF) will probably be the most 
significant driver of growth over the next 
ten to fifteen year period. Although aircraft 
production has been slow, Kilgore has 
completed development of the JSF flare set 
and has just been awarded the contract for 
the low-rate initial production. Over the next 
five years, production will need to increase 
rapidly if the aircraft is to achieve the 
necessary operational protection.
Another major area of growth in the next 
few years is naval countermeasures. 
These are designed to protect ships 
against incoming missiles, particularly 
in circumstances when rapid-fire gun 
systems cannot be used, such as in shallow 
water next to other vessels. The Group is 
developing a range of new payloads to meet 
I would like to extend my personal thanks to 
all members of staff for their dedication and 
hard work in delivering the 2010 results. 
Future prospects
Market conditions
During 2010, the defence market faced 
some uncertainty as most NATO nations 
reviewed total government expenditure to 
address fiscal deficits built up during the 
banking crises. In Europe, in particular, the 
market weakened as the majority of nations 
announced cut-backs in defence budgets, 
averaging at least a 10% reduction over 
the next few years. The majority of these 
reductions will be achieved by cancellation 
or cost reduction on specific programmes, 
such as the termination of the Harrier force 
announced by the UK Ministry of Defence 
as part of its recent Strategic Defence and 
Security Review, rather than a general cut-
back across all areas of expenditure. This is 
particularly true for customers involved in 
peacekeeping operations overseas, who 
continue to procure substantial product 
volumes for both operational use and to 
replenish their national stockpiles. However, 
the review process takes time and, even 
when there remains a clear need, we have 
seen an average of four to six months delay 
in the timing of our usual European orders. 
Our US market, on the other hand, has been 
more robust with little sign of any consensus 
supporting significant cuts in modernisation, 
force structure, troop numbers or overseas 
bases. The recent announcement from the 
US Department of Defense indicates that the 
FY12 budget proposal will be $553 billion, 
3% higher than the FY2011 proposal, and that 
there is no planned reduction in expenditure 
over the FY2012 to FY2016 period. Although 
a number of important programmes have 
been cancelled, none of these has a major 
impact on the Group, and the plans to 
procure additional F-18 aircraft as well as 
send 1,400 more marines to Afghanistan are 
likely to increase demand for some of our 
core products. The US defence market is 
substantial and there is considerable scope 
for consolidation at lower tier positions 
in the supply chain. We believe that there 
are significant opportunities for growth 
in this market, both in 2011 and over the 
longer-term future. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
9
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The order book, healthy cash flow and a solid balance sheet give 
the Board confidence that the prospects for the Group in 2011 
continue to be excellent.
the changing threat and is seeing a growing 
demand for both its current and next 
generation products. To satisfy the overall 
protection requirement, the Group has also 
developed an innovative new launcher, 
called Centurion, that will significantly 
enhance the effectiveness of the rounds. 
A prototype system has recently been 
demonstrated to the UK Ministry of Defence 
in a live-firing exercise, and we believe that 
it will be selected for qualification on the 
Type 45 destroyer. The global market for 
the product is expected to be substantial. 
The order book for our Countermeasures 
division increased by 14% to a new record 
of £265.4 million, with a 44% increase in 
the order book for flares used on fast-jet 
platforms. Our US subsidiary, Kilgore, saw its 
order book grow by 95% to £115.8 million, 
a level that is more than twice its 2010 
revenues, providing high levels of confidence 
in achieving further growth in 2011 and 2012. 
Counter-IED
Our HMDS ground penetrating radar 
continues to operate successfully during 
counter-IED operations in Afghanistan and 
has saved the lives of many US and coalition 
soldiers. The US Army has just placed an 
order for another sixty four systems for 
delivery by the end of 2011. This contract 
has a potential maximum value of 
$78 million and will take the number of 
HMDS systems delivered to the US and 
Canadian governments above two hundred 
and forty. The US Army is expecting to 
place a multi-year sustainment contract, 
potentially worth in excess of $70 million 
per year, on NIITEK for the provision of 
spares, maintenance and training necessary 
to support the deployed systems. The 
acquisition of a next-generation system, 
involving more advanced multi-sensor 
technology and data fusion, will probably be 
announced towards the end of 2011 with a 
multi-year procurement awarded in 2012.
The year end order book for our 
Counter-IED division was £99.3 million, 
169% higher than the previous year. Most of 
the current order book is for delivery by the 
end of July 2011. The latest system order 
and the multi-year sustainment contract 
should ensure that the prospects for growth 
in 2011 continue to be positive. 
Pyrotechnics
There continues to be strong interest in 
illuminating payloads for use in peacekeeping 
operations. We are currently developing a 
“black light” payload for the 120mm mortar 
round, which will then complete our full 
range of illumination and “black light” mortar 
products. We have also developed some 
air-launched “black light” munitions that will 
be going through qualification in 2011. 
We have also seen strong demand for our 
components and sub-systems used in safety 
systems on a variety of military platforms. 
One area of growing interest is egress and 
fire suppression systems for Mine Resistant 
Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles that 
are often used in peacekeeping operations. 
Protection of the crew and easy escape 
from a vehicle on fire has become a major 
priority and we are working with a number 
of partners on satisfying both US and 
European requirements.
The overall order book for the Pyrotechnics 
division reduced slightly to £171.9 million 
but grew substantially in the US market. 
It provides confidence in the stable 
prospects for 2011 even if the European 
market continues to weaken.
Munitions
The naval ammunition market remains 
stable with a growing number of ships built 
over the last five years that are fitted with 
40mm, 76mm or 127mm guns. There is 
considerable interest in our products from 
Middle East and South American customers. 
The French Navy expects to qualify a 76mm 
operational round, with an insensitive 
explosive warhead, in 2011 and is expected 
to place a multi-year production contract 
during the second half period.
The Middle East and South America are also 
growing markets for our 90mm, 105mm and 
115mm direct-fire ammunition. In particular, 
the CMI 90mm Mk8 gun is often fitted to the 
light armoured vehicles prevalent in these 
regions and offers the Group a substantial 
opportunity to develop new customer 
relationships and markets.
The order book for the Munitions division 
grew by 126% to £266.7 million, more 
than twice the 2010 revenue. This provides 
confidence that the business will continue 
to grow in 2011 and 2012. 
Outlook
Overall, the future outlook remains 
encouraging with many excellent 
opportunities for growth. The Group has 
a strong order book, which at the end of 
the year stood at £803.3 million, up 44% 
on the previous year. Most of our products 
are short-cycle consumables with order 
coverage of between six and twelve months’ 
duration. The order book does, therefore, 
represent a reliable leading indicator of 
future revenues. The order book, healthy 
cash flow and a solid balance sheet give the 
Board confidence that the prospects for the 
Group in 2011 continue to be excellent.
D J Price
Chief Executive
18 January 2011 Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
10
Vision
Our vision is to be the leading producer of 
protection systems and energetic products 
for the global defence market
Countermeasures Counter-IED
Maintain market share 
• Exploit lead in special 
material, spectral and 
thrusted flares
• Invest in new 
automated production 
facilities
• Develop a market lead in 
naval decoys and launchers
Establish technological 
leadership
• Become the world leader 
in IED detection and 
neutralisation
• Maintain technological 
lead in GPR and 
counter-IED jamming
• Develop a strong position 
in demilitarisation services
Pyrotechnics Munitions
Displace weak competitors
• Consolidate the market 
through acquisition
• Extend lead in niche 
technologies
• Develop capability in 
space applications
Partner prime contractors
• Develop position as 
preferred supplier of 
energetic materials to 
key prime contractors
• Develop position as a niche 
prime contractor
• Maintain position as the 
world market leader in 
naval ammunition
Maintain
market
share
Countermeasures Counter-IED
Establish
technology
leadership
Displace
weak
competitors
Pyrotechnics
Partner
prime
contractors
Munitions
Our strategy
Group strategy
The Group strategy remains focused on our four market segments 
– Countermeasures, Counter-IED, Pyrotechnics and Munitions. 
With the growing importance of electronics throughout our 
business, we have extended our future vision statement to include 
a broader definition of “protection systems”, including electronic 
countermeasures and IED detection systems.
Our core strategy over the next five years looks to develop our four 
key core competencies:
• Energetic materials – We will focus the business on products 
where we can exploit our extensive knowledge and expertise in 
explosive, pyrotechnic and pyrophoric materials. We will address 
niche, highly profitable markets with significant value-added 
manufacture/assembly where barriers to entry are high. We will 
exploit the commonality of technology and design expertise to 
generate a broad centre-of-expertise that can be maintained 
over the long term future.
• High reliability and integrity – The nature of our products requires 
the highest levels of safety in manufacture and use, and 
reliability, particularly when their correct operation is life critical, 
as in ejection seats or IED detection. Manufacturing and product 
safety must be one of our highest priorities if we are to sustain 
our position and become leader in the field. 
• High volume manufacturing – We currently manufacture 
IR flares, pyrotechnics, high-explosive pellets, impulse cartridges 
and detonators in significant quantities and have built up strong 
expertise in automated manufacturing. Our strategy is to 
consolidate manufacturing centres, where possible, to produce 
high volumes. Expertise in automation and flexible manufacture 
will drive down our cost base and maintain competitive advantage.
• Growing dependence on electronics – We recognise that a growing 
proportion of our business, either directly or indirectly, is dependent 
on electronics, from IED detection and jamming through to 
pyrotechnic delays, advanced fuzing and active expendable decoys.
Geographic strategy
Our geographic strategy has five components:
• Maintain a geographic footprint which reflects the balance 
of global defence spending.
• Manufacture in the USA for the US market and in Europe for 
the European market. 
• Use our excellent worldwide sales network to export both 
the Group’s and third parties’ products to global markets 
from both Europe and the USA. 
• Establish local manufacturing facilities in countries where 
it provides competitive advantage.
• Increase our regional marketing presence in the Far East 
and the Middle East.
Comet
(Germany)
Technical 
Ordnance
(USA)
Simmel Difesa
(Italy)
Richmond EEI
(UK)
Nobel Energetics
(UK)
Leafield 
Engineering
(UK)
BDL 
Systems 
(UK)
Nobel High 
Energy Materials
(Norway)
2005 2006 2007 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
11
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Strengths and resources
The Group has core competencies in the design and manufacture 
of energetic materials; the development of highly reliable and safe 
products; high volume manufacturing; and specialist electronics.
Market position and reputation
The Group is the world’s leading manufacturer of countermeasure 
decoys, with over 50% market share. We are currently 
leading the field in the development and manufacture of 
advanced countermeasures.
In the counter-IED market, we are the leading supplier of vehicle 
mounted ground penetrating radar detection systems to the 
US Army; a recognised UK leader in detection and jamming 
technologies; and a prominent player in explosive ordnance 
disposal equipment and consumables.
In our Pyrotechnics segment, we are an expert manufacturer of 
products containing energetic materials and we are developing 
a prominent position in several niche market areas, including 
screening and illumination pyrotechnics, satellite separation 
systems, and aircrew egress components.
In our Munitions segment, we have successful and long-standing 
relationships with many of the world’s leading missile and 
ammunition suppliers, and as a niche prime contractor, we are a 
leader in naval ammunition and specialist ammunition for light 
armoured vehicles (LAVs).
Customer relationships
The Group has an extensive customer base, comprising 
governments, armed forces, prime contractors and OEMs across 
the globe. We have an extensive distribution network and our 
businesses currently supply to over eighty countries worldwide.
Manufacturing operations
The Group continues to benefit from efficiency improvements 
achieved through automation and rationalisation of manufacturing 
across the Group, and we have an ongoing investment plan for new 
plants and technologies.
Solid financial base 
The Group enjoys healthy operating margins across its businesses. 
Our focus on working capital management in recent years has 
manifested itself in excellent cash conversion and produced a 
sound balance sheet for the Group.
Management 
Management resource and expertise have been strengthened at 
all levels across the Group during recent years, and we continue 
to develop our operational skills to ensure that we remain a world 
class manufacturer.
Acquisition strategy
Acquisitions have been an important element of the recent 
growth of the business. The successful completion of seventeen 
acquisitions over the last five years has contributed directly to the 
overall growth of the Group, and has broadened our capabilities.
Components of Group revenue growth 2005–2010
0
600
700
500
400
£ million
300
200
100
2005 Organic Acquisitive Foreign
exchange
2010
£121m
£201m
£224m
£51m £597m
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Our strategy for acquisitions is to continue to target opportunities 
which add capability, technology and market access. We will exploit 
synergies from such acquisitions by creating centres of excellence, 
investing in new products and promoting our products though our 
worldwide channels to market.
We intend to maintain a balance of acquisition investment across 
Counter-IED, Pyrotechnics and Munitions, and between Europe and 
the USA.
Our acquisition investments over the last five years can be analysed 
as follows:
Total investment in acquisitions 2005–2010
Pyrotechnics 43%
Munitions 34%
Counter-IED 16%
Countermeasures 7%
UK 25%
Europe 24%
USA 51%
Geographical spread Business activity
Acquisition timeline 2005–2010
Scot
(USA)
NIITEK
(USA)
Titan Dynamics 
Systems
(USA)
Martin 
Electronics
(USA)
Roke Manor 
Research
(UK)
Chemring 
Fuze Technology
(Italy)
Hi-Shear
(USA)
Mecar
(Belgium & USA)
2008 2009 Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
12
bolstered by $105 million of multi-year 
orders for the flare sets used to protect the 
B-52 and F-22 aircraft. A further $50 million 
of order book is for the M212 spectral flare.
Activities during the year
Kilgore Flares, one of our US subsidiaries, 
had an encouraging year, with revenue up 
17% to a new record on steady production 
volumes of around 1.1 million flares. This was 
principally driven by 24% growth in demand 
for fast-jet flares and, in particular, by a 
120% increase in the volume of advanced 
flares delivered on the F-22 and Joint Strike 
Fighter (JSF) programmes. Development of 
the JSF flare set was completed during the 
year and low rate initial production has now 
started. Production volumes are expected 
to gently increase over the next few years 
before the transition to volume production 
from 2014 onwards.
On 14 September 2010, there was a serious 
incident at Kilgore within a specialist 
assembly facility that undertakes the final 
assembly on the MJU-7 flare that protects 
the F-16 and a number of other aircraft. 
Three of our employees sustained serious 
injury and our investigations have identified a 
number of safety improvements that we have 
implemented across the site. The incident is 
still under investigation by the US regulatory 
authorities. There was substantial damage 
to the facility and it will be several months 
before it can be returned to operation. 
The restart of all other production lines was 
reviewed and a number of important safety 
improvements implemented. This took 
several months to complete and resulted in 
about £7 million of revenue being delayed 
from 2010 to 2011, which would have added 
another 15% to Kilgore’s full year revenue.
Our other US subsidiary, Alloy Surfaces, 
had a satisfactory year with stable revenue 
generated from production volumes of 
just under 1.9 million decoys, 5% lower 
than the previous year. This was in spite of 
growth in demand for MJU-50 decoys that 
are principally used by the US Air Force on 
transport aircraft. This growth was linked 
to a specific stockpile requirement and the 
demand is expected to drop back to normal 
levels from 2011 onwards. $60 million of new 
multi-year contracts were awarded during 
Countermeasures
Highlights in 2010
•  Revenue increased by 7% to 
£196.3 million
• Kilgore Flares order book increased 
by 95% to £115.8 million
• Sales of decoys for helicopters 
and transport aircraft rose 6% to 
£87 million
• Revenue from naval countermeasures 
grew by 70% to £17 million
• Kilgore Flares revenue rose by 17% 
to a new record on steady production 
volumes of around 1.1 million flares
Key information
Orders
£219.2m
Revenue
£196.3m
Operating profit
£58.8m
Operating margin
30%
Strategy
The core strategy for our Countermeasures 
division is to maintain our share of the 
expendable countermeasures market and to 
expand the business in line with the market, 
which is expected to grow steadily over the 
next ten to fifteen years. We will invest in 
new products and technologies that build on 
our current leadership in special materials, 
spectral and thrusted flare technologies. 
We will also invest significantly in both 
decoy and launcher technologies for the 
naval market, which we expect to grow 
rapidly in the future. The acquisition of Roke 
has enhanced our capabilities in advanced 
electronics and sensor systems, and we 
will exploit this capability by developing 
electronic countermeasures for air, sea 
and land applications. We will continue to 
invest in new fully automated production 
facilities that will improve operator safety 
and significantly enhance our operational 
efficiency, and we will maintain our lead role 
in the development of new products for the 
next generation of fixed-wing and rotary 
aircraft, naval ships and land forces.
Analysis
The market in expendable countermeasures 
is estimated to be £390 million. In 2010, our 
revenue was £196.3 million, 7% higher than 
the previous year and equating to a market 
share of just over 50%. Sales of decoys used 
on fast-jets increased slightly to £91 million, 
with increased demand at Kilgore offset by 
reduced demand elsewhere. Sales of decoys 
for helicopters and transport aircraft, whose 
usage is more closely linked to peacekeeping 
activities, rose 6% to £87 million, driven by 
increased demand from the US Air Force. 
Revenue from naval countermeasures grew 
by 70% to £17 million, driven by an increase 
in Royal Navy requirements.
The year end order book for the 
Countermeasures division was 
£265.4 million, up 14% on the previous 
year, and should be considered a positive 
indicator of further steady growth in 2011. 
This growth is dominated by the order book 
for decoys used on fast-jet aircraft, which 
rose 44% compared to 2009. The order 
book for Kilgore, in particular, increased 
by 95% to a record level of $186 million, 
The year end order book for the Countermeasures division 
was £265.4 million, up 14% on the previous year. This growth 
is dominated by the order book for decoys used on fast-jet 
aircraft, which rose 44% compared to 2009.  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
13
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Dispensing flares
F-22 Raptor aircraft deploys flares.
the year, one by the US Navy for decoys to 
support their fast-jet and helicopter fleet, 
and one from the UK Royal Air Force to 
support their combat aircraft.
Good progress was made during the year on 
the development of a next generation flare 
solution for the protection of helicopters. 
A new covert decoy underwent a number 
of trials with the US Army and the results, 
to date, have been very encouraging. 
The US Army is currently planning to run a 
competition for its next generation decoy 
in 2011 and Alloy Surfaces’ special material 
solution is believed to be a strong candidate. 
Chemring Countermeasures, our UK 
subsidiary, also had a good year with stable 
overall revenue, with aircraft flare volumes 
10% lower at 350,000 units, and revenue 
from naval countermeasures up 95% to 
a new record level. The reduction in flare 
volumes was directly related to three months 
of lost production of spectral flares caused 
by the oven fire at our site in Salisbury in 
April 2010. The demand for Typhoon flares 
did not increase by as much as we expected, 
as many of the European nations delayed 
placing orders as a consequence of budget 
reviews that have been undertaken to solve 
the fiscal deficit problem. The large numbers 
of Typhoon aircraft scheduled for delivery to 
customers over the next few years continues 
to represent a future growth opportunity.
The UK market was a major component of 
the growth in the naval countermeasures 
business in 2010, with significant deliveries of 
both infra-red and chaff decoy rounds. Orders 
to the value of £24 million were awarded, 
including the full development of an advanced 
technology decoy, which is expected to start 
production in 2011. However, to make full use 
of the latest variable range technology, we 
have developed a new launcher system that 
will significantly enhance the performance of 
the decoys against a wide range of threats. 
The new launcher is called Centurion, and 
a prototype version has recently been 
demonstrated to the UK Ministry of Defence 
in live firing trials involving a range of 
different types of decoy. The performance 
demonstration was a success and there 
is considerable interest in qualifying the 
launcher for use on the Type 45 Destroyer. 
Significant interest has also been shown in 
the system by overseas customers and we 
estimate that there could be a global market 
of 500 systems over the next ten years.
Our business units and companies 
Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. (USA)
The world’s only manufacturer of special 
material decoys for the US Department 
of Defense and militaries world wide. 
Alloy’s patented technology employs 
pyrophoric materials to decoy attacking 
enemy missiles.
Chemring Australia Pty Ltd
Australia’s leading manufacturer and 
supplier of military countermeasures.
Chemring Countermeasures Ltd (UK)
A world leader in the design, development 
and manufacture of advanced expendable 
countermeasures for air and sea platforms, 
and is also developing next generation 
launchers for deploying naval decoys.
Kilgore Flares Company LLC (USA)
Kilgore Flares develops and produces 
airborne expendable IR countermeasure 
decoys and IR naval decoys.
Roke Manor Research Ltd (UK)
A world-class developer of electronic 
countermeasures, electronic intelligence 
and threat detection technologies.
Our products 
Air countermeasures
• Conventional and advanced flares
• Special material decoys
• Chaff
Naval countermeasures
• RF decoys
• IR decoys
• Naval decoy launchers
Land/EW
• Electronic intelligence equipment
• Electronic countermeasures Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
14
customers on the performance of the system 
has been very positive and has confirmed 
that it makes an important contribution to 
the safety of coalition forces. To meet the 
increased demand, an additional production 
facility was brought into operation, raising 
the monthly production rate to over twenty 
HMDS units. Revenues did, therefore, grow by 
124% compared with the previous year. 
In August 2010, the US Army placed a new 
production contract, worth $217 million, on 
our US subsidiary, NIITEK, for the supply 
of 76 HMDS, together with the necessary 
spares, in-country maintenance and training. 
A contract for a further 64 systems has 
recently been placed, covering both the 
US Army and US Marine Corps requirements 
for 2011. This contract will take the 
number of delivered systems above 240. 
The US Army intends to place a multi-year, 
sustainment contract for the support of 
these systems, which is expected to be 
worth in excess of $60 million per annum, 
and will provide the necessary funding to 
maintain the sixty support staff that are 
currently located at forward operating 
bases. A multi-sensor, next generation 
product is expected to be competitively 
procured in the second half of 2012.
The number of countries showing interest 
in acquiring HMDS continues to grow, with 
Italy, France, Turkey, India and Australia all 
carefully evaluating its performance. A new 
hand-held system, with multiple sensors, 
is under development and initial trials with 
the US Army have been very encouraging. 
Our UK subsidiary, Chemring EOD, supplies 
another advanced detection system, called 
“VehicleScan”, that is used to identify 
IED packages under vehicles and trains. 
The system has been used for stadium 
security at the 2010 World Cup in South 
Africa, the F1 Grand Prix in the UAE and the 
G20 conference in Seoul. A large number 
of the systems are under consideration for 
installation at the 2012 Olympics in London. 
Phase 2 of the pilot trials of VehicleScan 
for railway systems will start in the next 
few months on the New York subway. 
A successful demonstration should qualify 
the system for all Federal-funded rail 
networks, including subways, in the USA.
Counter – Improvised Explosive Device (IED)
Highlights in 2010
•  Sales of our detection products were 
£102 million, 124% higher than last year
• The closing order book for Counter-IED 
was £99.3 million, up 169% on 2009
• NIITEK delivered 107 HMDS ground 
penetrating radars to the US and 
Canadian Armies for high reliability 
route clearance in support of 
peacekeeping operations
• Roke acquisition provides us with a 
wide range of technologies that will 
enhance our opportunities in the 
counter-IED market
Key information
New orders
£178.5m
Revenue
£114.9m
Operating profit
£28.1m
Operating margin
25%
Strategy
Our strategy is to become the world leader 
in the global counter-IED market with high 
technology products to detect, disable and 
defeat the threat posed by either buried 
or surface IEDs. We will invest in advanced 
sensor technology for the detection of 
explosive, biological, chemical and nuclear 
threats, as well the data fusion necessary 
for multi-sensor integration. We will develop 
wide-band adaptive jamming capabilities 
to disable remotely controlled devices, 
advanced technology disrupters and the 
full range of demolition stores needed 
to defeat them. We will also enhance our 
secure coded, frequency agile initiation 
systems needed to reliably control this 
process. Further acquisitions, focused on 
complementary technologies to expand our 
capabilities, also constitute an important 
element of our counter-IED strategy.
Analysis
The global market for counter-IED equipment 
is estimated to be £3 billion. Our revenue in 
2010 was £114.9 million, 88% higher than the 
previous year and equating to a market share 
of 4%. Sales of our detection products were 
£102 million, 124% higher than last year, 
principally driven by the demand from the 
US Army for the Husky Mounted Detection 
System (HMDS) ground penetrating 
radar. Revenue from our Defeat products 
was £12 million, lower than last year and 
reflecting the delayed order intake from 
European customers.
The closing order book for Counter-IED was 
£99.3 million, up 169% on 2009, and a clear 
indicator of continued revenue growth in 
2011. The availability of qualified demolition 
stores product with Insensitive Munitions (IM) 
characteristics in 2011 is also expected to 
enhance this year’s prospects. 
Activities during the year
Detect
The detection of IEDs continued to dominate 
the activities of our Counter-IED division 
during the year, and resulted in the delivery 
of 107 HMDS ground penetrating radars 
to the US and Canadian Armies for high 
reliability route clearance in support of 
peacekeeping operations. Feedback from 
Our revenue in 2010 was £114.9 million, 88% higher than 
the previous year.
  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
15
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Threat detection
Husky Mounted Detection System (HMDS) 
with VISOR™ 2500
Defeat
Demolition stores, which are used to destroy 
suspect packages or unwanted ordnance 
and for forced entry into buildings, are 
another important product range for the 
Group. Chemring Energetics is currently 
developing a suite of products, such as 
the SABREX flexible linear cutting charge, 
the Bangalore Torpedo and plastic sheet 
explosive, which all have IM explosive 
characteristics. These products will shortly 
complete qualification with the UK Ministry 
of Defence and are expected to start 
production in 2011. Strong interest from 
European and Far Eastern countries has 
already been evident and this should provide 
strong export opportunities for the future. 
The remote initiation of disrupters and 
explosives is also a key capability for the 
Group, and we continue to see a steady 
market for our BREACH secure-coded 
RF initiation system. A derivative, called the 
Forced Rapid Entry Device (FRED), that better 
meets the needs of Special Forces has been 
developed, and there is considerable interest 
in its application to Remote Operating Vehicle 
counter-IED operation.
Disable
Our recent acquisition of UK-based Roke 
provides us with a wide range of technologies 
that will enhance our opportunities in 
the counter-IED market. Their wide-band 
technology is a key component in UK 
jamming systems that are used to counter 
remote initiation. They also provide 
detection sensors across the full range of the 
electro-magnetic spectrum for close-range 
and stand-off applications. They have 
substantial data fusion and network enabled 
capabilities to support distributed operation.
Defeat the Network
Roke also produces a range of technologies 
for cyber warfare, including the Vanguard 
system that provides a scalable modular 
lawful intercept product that is deployed 
on five continents. A new generation system 
is currently under development and will be 
launched into the market in 2011.
Our business units and companies
Chemring Energetics UK Ltd 
Specialises in the design and 
manufacture of energetic materials, 
detonators, and demolition stores.
Chemring EOD Ltd (UK)
Manufactures a range of products 
for detection, assessment and 
neutralisation of explosive threats 
from improvised explosive devices 
and unexploded ordnance.
Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, 
Inc. (USA)
The leading manufacturer of  
vehicle-mounted ground penetrating 
radar mine detection systems.
Roke Manor Research Ltd (UK) 
A world-class developer of electronic 
countermeasures, electronic intelligence 
and threat detection technologies. 
Chemring Defence (Europe)
Manufactures Portable Explosive 
Minefield Breaching Systems 
(PEMBS) and distributes other 
demolition products.
Our products
Detect
• Vehicle-mounted detection systems
• Stand-off IED detectors
• Remote IED inspection equipment
• Under-vehicle surveillance systems
Disable
• Electronic countermeasures
Defeat
• Remote initiators
• Detonators
• Explosive charges
• Minefield clearance systems
• Recoilless de-armers/disrupters Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
16
from other NATO countries. The UK Army 
had accelerated deliveries of 81mm mortar 
pyrotechnic rounds in 2009 to ensure 
security of supply and, in 2010, the volumes 
reduced down, as expected, to their long 
term sustainable requirement. However, to 
augment the UK capability, we developed a 
“black light” payload for the BAE Systems 
Bofors 105mm ammunition over a very 
short period, and the first production units 
have been delivered for use in peacekeeping 
operations. Two air-launched “black light” 
products are also under development for US 
and European applications, and qualification 
of these products is expected to begin in 2011.
A new compact smoke grenade completed 
development during the year and was 
qualified by the UK Ministry of Defence. 
A multi-year contract, worth over 
£40 million, which included the supply of this 
new grenade, was awarded in March 2010. 
Production was increased rapidly in the 
second half of the year and reached its 
maximum capacity of 150,000 units per 
month. Efficiency improvements and 
automated assembly will be incorporated 
in 2011. We expect the export demand for 
this product to increase strongly. 
Demand for our 40mm pyrotechnic rounds 
continued to grow in the USA, with revenue 
up 22% compared with the previous year. 
Production of the M992 “black light” 
round commenced during the year and 
the volumes are expected to quadruple 
over the next few years. Production of the 
M661 green parachute round also started, 
and we expect to begin manufacture of the 
M662 red parachute round in 2011.
Training
The US Army changed the design of the 
M67 hand grenade, to include a “confidence 
clip” that prevents accidental arming of the 
product. This modification was incorporated 
into the design of the M228 training 
grenade during the year and implemented 
into the automated manufacturing process. 
This implementation took far longer than 
expected and production has only just 
returned to the 20 units per minute rate 
that is necessary to meet the US Army’s 
delivery requirements. Production volumes 
in 2010 did, therefore, drop to very low 
volumes whilst line qualification and factory 
Pyrotechnics
Highlights in 2010
• A multi-year contract, worth up to 
$75 million, was awarded to the Group 
in May 2010 for our BES launchers
• Demand for our 40mm pyrotechnic 
rounds continued to grow in the USA, 
with revenue up 22% compared with 
the previous year
• We successfully demonstrated the 
38mm Multiple Effects Rocket System 
(MERS), which can operate up to 1,000 
metres, to a number of UK, US and 
other international customers
• Growth in safety systems and space 
product sales
Key information
New orders
£181.4m
Revenue
£170.0m
Operating profit
£40.1m
Operating margin
24%
Strategy
Our strategy is to become the world 
leader in pyrotechnics, through focused 
investment in new products that displace 
existing incumbents and which better meet 
our customers’ requirements. We intend to 
expand our activities in the space sector 
by developing improved products for 
initiation, stage separation, satellite and 
sub-system deployment for military and 
commercial customers. This will address the 
US, European and emerging international 
markets. We intend to expand our safety 
systems activities, both in aircraft and 
Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) 
vehicles. We also intend to consolidate 
the market through carefully selected 
acquisitions in both Europe and the USA. 
Analysis
The global market for pyrotechnics is 
currently estimated to be £1.6 billion. 
Our revenue in 2010 was £170.0 million, 
which is slightly lower than the previous 
year and represents a market share of 
nearly 11%. Sales of smoke and illumination 
products were £112 million, 7% lower than the 
previous year, principally due to the timing 
of order intake from our UK and European 
customers. Sales of training and simulation 
products were £16 million, substantially down 
on the previous year, reflecting reduced US 
production levels due to the timing of product 
improvement and manufacturing transfer. 
These were compensated for by growth in 
safety systems and space products sales of 
£34 million and £8 million respectively.
The closing order book was £171.9 million, 
similar to the previous year, providing a clear 
indication of the stable outlook for 2011. 
The resumption of volume production in the 
USA of training grenades and Battlefield 
Effects Simulations (BES) cartridges should 
lead to a recovery in that part of the market, 
and the growing order book for safety 
systems and space should ensure growth 
in the future. 
Activities during the year
Smoke and illumination
Deliveries of “black light” and conventional 
illumination mortar rounds remained fairly 
stable throughout the year, with reductions 
in UK deliveries offset by the requirements 
We were awarded a multi-year contract, worth over £40 million, 
which included the supply of the compact smoke grenade, 
newly qualified by the UK Ministry of Defence.  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
17
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Enabling safe ejection
Detonation of twin seat Hawk trainer 
aircraft’s rear canopy taken from 
high-speed video of a trial.
acceptance testing took place. This will 
recover in 2011.
At the beginning of 2010, we took the 
decision to close our Titan Dynamics 
Systems facility in Marshall, Texas, and 
to transfer the manufacturing of BES 
launchers to Chicago and the cartridges to 
Florida. The US Army took the opportunity 
to upgrade the products, including both 
the M34 hostile fire and M35 target hit 
cartridges. The upgrade and the factory 
acceptance testing were completed but no 
production of cartridges was possible by the 
year end. A multi-year contract, worth up to 
$75 million, was awarded to the Group in 
May 2010.
A new shoulder-launched missile simulator, 
based upon our standard lightweight gunnery 
simulation system, has been developed by 
our European business, Chemring Defence. 
Trials of the product have recently been 
conducted for the US Army and a number 
of European nations. The results were 
very positive and we expect a number of 
customers to place orders for the system 
in 2011. We successfully demonstrated the 
38mm Multiple Effects Rocket System, which 
can operate up to 1,000 metres, to a number 
of UK, US and other international customers 
and its “black light” and illumination payloads 
will become available in 2011.
We also had a number of successes in the 
European market during the year, with the 
selection of the Multiple Effects Cartridge 
System (MECS) by the French Ministry of 
Defence for force-on-force training, and a 
contract from the French Army for a training 
simulator for the Portable Explosive Mine 
Breaching System (PEMBS).
Safety systems 
Military ejector seats continue to use 
a large number of pyrotechnic devices 
for propulsion, controlled initiation and 
sequencing. We continue to be a major 
supplier of components and sub-systems 
to the principal manufacturers of such 
systems. In the UK, there has been a 25% 
increase in demand for propellant products. 
In the USA, we have delivered a batch of 
leg restraint systems for the F-16 ejection 
system and have just finished qualification 
of the thermal battery for the F-22 system. 
The first production orders have also been 
received for the Joint Combined Aircraft 
Systems Testers (JCAST), that are used 
to test oxygen systems, helmets, noise 
reduction headsets and chemical defence 
systems on F-16 and F-22 aircraft.
Our business units and companies
Chemring Australia Pty Ltd
Supplies a range of pyrotechnics, military 
training and marine safety products.
Chemring Defence (Europe)
Centre-of-excellence for the design, 
development and production of smoke and 
illumination pyrotechnics and payloads for 
military, OEM and safety customers.
Chemring Energetics UK Ltd
A leading supplier of rocket motors, 
canopy cutting cords and pyromechanisms 
for safety and aircrew egress.
Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. (USA)
Supplier of pyrotechnic and 
electromechanical systems for space, 
safety and military training applications. 
Chemring Marine Ltd (UK)
The world’s leading supplier of marine 
distress signals to commercial and 
leisure markets, under the brand names 
Pains Wessex and Comet.
Chemring Ordnance, Inc. (USA)
Leading US manufacturer of military 
training pyrotechnics and pyrotechnic 
rounds for 40mm grenade launchers.
Hi-Shear Technology Corporation (USA)
Leading supplier of space qualified 
initiators and low shock satellite 
separation systems, and a range of 
pyromechanisms for aircrew egress.
Simmel Difesa S.p.A. (Italy)
Manufactures pyrotechnic visible and 
infra-red illumination rounds for mortars.
Our products
Space and satellite launch
• Initiators
• Separation sub-systems
• Thrusters and actuators
Training
• Pyrotechnics and launchers
Smoke and illumination 
• Military smokes, flares and rockets
• Distraction and screening products
• Pyrotechnic payloads
• Commercial marine pyrotechnics
Safety systems
• Rocket motors
• Canopy cutting charges
• Cartridge actuated devices Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
18
Activities during the year
Naval
76mm naval ammunition continued to be in 
demand during the year, with strong interest 
from Europe, the Middle East, the Far East 
and South America. A new insensitive 
explosive round for the French market 
is under development and will complete 
qualification in 2011. The training variant 
did finish qualification during 2010, and an 
initial production contract was placed by 
the French Ministry of Defence. A contract 
for the production of the operational 
rounds is unlikely to occur until the latter 
part of this calendar year.
Land
Our Italian subsidiary, Simmel Difesa, 
had an excellent year, with a substantial 
increase in the number of large calibre 
tank ammunition rounds sold to a variety 
of customers. $25 million of 125mm tank 
ammunition was delivered to a Middle East 
customer and $10 million of 120mm tank 
ammunition was supplied to a NATO 
country. The first production order for 
115mm tank ammunition was also awarded 
at the end of the year for delivery in 2011. 
However, the strongest demand was for our 
90mm ammunition, which is the standard 
round for the CMI Mk8 gun that is fitted to a 
large number of light armoured vehicles.
Components and sub-systems
Interest in ballistic missile defence systems 
continues to grow internationally, with 
many countries expressing concern about 
the threat from nuclear, biological or 
chemical payloads. Hi-Shear’s revenue 
from electronic safety and arming systems 
for the Mk3 Patriot missile grew by 33% 
compared to 2009, and further growth over 
the next few years is now expected.
The new lead azide manufacturing facility 
was completed in South Dakota and a 
broad set of samples manufactured for 
qualification testing by the US Army. 
This should complete in 2011 and we expect 
to rapidly expand our production to cater 
for the growing demand for both military 
and commercial applications. 
Munitions
Highlights in 2010
• Order book improved with the 
Middle East growing by 207%
• Steady growth in component sales to 
£54 million
• Revenue from electronic safety and 
arming systems for the Mk3 Patriot 
missile grew by 33% compared 
to 2009
• Over 100% growth in order intake to 
£245.2 million
Key information
New orders
£245.2m
Revenue
£115.9m
Operating profit
£20.9m
Operating margin
18%
Strategy
Our principal strategy is to develop our 
position as a strategic supplier of energetic 
material components and sub-systems to 
the key prime contractors for ammunition 
and missiles in Europe and the USA. This will 
be achieved by developing and qualifying 
components for next generation weapon 
systems, displacing poorly performing 
incumbents on legacy products, 
investment in automated manufacturing 
facilities, and by further complementary 
acquisitions. As a niche prime contractor 
we will build on our world leading position 
in naval ammunition, our strong position 
in ammunition for light armoured vehicles 
and our broad range of mortar and 40mm 
grenade products, through focused product 
development and investment in new 
facilities that will allow us to expand our 
presence in a growing international market. 
Analysis
The global market for munitions components 
is estimated to be £2 billion. In 2010, our 
revenue from components was £54 million, 
representing 47% of our total Munitions 
revenue, an increase of 8% compared 
with the previous year and equating to a 
market share of 3%. The global market 
for ammunition, excluding small calibre, is 
estimated to be £4 billion. Our total revenue 
in 2010 was £62 million, a 72% increase on 
last year and equating to a market share 
of 2%. This growth was driven by the award 
of a number of multi-year contracts from 
Middle East customers, which increased sales 
volumes by 270%.
The year end order book for the Munitions 
division was £266.7 million, an increase 
of 126% on the previous year and a clear 
indication of further growth in 2011. 
The improvement in the order book was 
well-distributed, with the Middle East 
growing by 207%, the Far East by 127%, 
Europe by 140% and the USA by 53%.
The year end order book for the Munitions division was 
£266.7 million, an increase of 126% on the previous year 
and a clear indication of further growth in 2011.  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
19
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Hi-Shear ESAF system
Patriot Advanced Capability (PAC-3) missile.
Our business units and companies
Chemring Energetics UK Ltd
A leading supplier of detonators, 
actuators, rocket motors, high explosive 
filling and pyromechanical sub-assemblies. 
Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. (USA)
Manufactures a range of materials, 
components and sub-systems for leading 
missile and ammunition prime contractors.
Chemring Military Products, Inc. (USA) 
Provides load, assemble, pack 
and procurement services to the 
US Government and prime contractors.
Chemring Nobel AS (Norway)
Manufactures niche energetic 
materials with insensitive munitions 
(IM) characteristics for munition and 
oil-field applications.
Chemring Ordnance, Inc. (USA)
Niche supplier of 40mm grenade 
ammunition.
Hi-Shear Technology Corporation (USA)
Develops advanced sub-systems 
for ballistic missile defence and 
tactical weapons.
Mecar S.A. (Belgium)
A niche supplier of medium and 
large calibre ammunition for light 
armoured vehicles.
Simmel Difesa S.p.A. (Italy)
A leading supplier of naval ammunition, 
advanced fuzing technology and 
missile components.
Chemring Fuze Technology S.r.l. (Italy)
Manufactures precision mechanical and 
electronic sub-systems.
Our products
Naval ammunition
• Medium and large calibre ammunition
Land forces ammunition
• Medium and large calibre ammunition
• 40mm grenades 
• Mortar ammunition
Components
• Propellants and rocket motors
• Fuze and safe/arm units
• Pyromechanisms and actuators
• Energetic materials Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
20
Review by the Finance Director
Underlying operating profit* was £135.6 million and 
underlying operating cash flow was £126.1 million, 
both increased by 18%. 
Results
Total revenue was up £93.2 million to £597.1 million, an increase of 18%. £26.5 million of the 
increased revenue was generated by acquired companies. Revenue excluding acquisitions was 
13% up on 2009. Total underlying operating profit* was £135.6 million (2009: £114.7 million), 
an increase of 18%. The net underlying margin* was 23% (2009: 23%).
An analysis of revenue and underlying operating profit* is set out below:
2010 2009
Division
Revenue 
£m
Underlying 
operating 
profit* 
£m
Underlying 
operating 
margin Revenue 
£m
Underlying 
operating 
profit* 
£m
Underlying 
operating 
margin 
Countermeasures 196.3 58.8 30% 183.5 53.5 29%
Counter-IED 114.9 28.1 25% 61.2 15.6 25%
Pyrotechnics 170.0 40.1 24% 173.2 43.8 25%
Munitions 115.9  20.9  18%  86.0  13.4 16%
Share-based payments - (2.3) - (2.1)
Restructuring costs - (1.5) - (2.9)
Incident costs - (2.8) - -
Provision release - 2.4 - -
Unallocated head office costs - (8.1)  - (6.6)
Total 597.1 135.6 23% 503.9 114.7 23%
The Counter-IED division delivered the most significant growth, with revenue increasing 
88% and operating profit 80%. Munitions sales increased by 35%, which reflected 
additional sales through Chemring Australia, our prime contract businesses and 
£5.2 million from acquisitions. Pyrotechnics had a slight deterioration of 2% on last year. 
Countermeasures grew 7%, reflecting strong sales by Kilgore Flares.
Restructuring costs
In the second half of the year a decision was taken to restructure the Group’s UK counter-IED 
business at a cost of £1.5 million. As a result, one of the two sites out of which it operated 
was closed. The benefits of this closure will be seen in the current financial year.
The £2.9 million of restructuring costs in 2009 related to our UK countermeasures 
business and Chemring Ordnance in the USA.
Incident costs
In September two separate incidents stopped production at our Kilgore Flares facility 
in Tennessee and our newly acquired subsidiary, Mecar, in Belgium. As a result of 
these incidents approximately £7 million of revenue and £3 million of underlying 
operating profit* was deferred into the current financial year. In addition, £2.8 million 
of non-recurring costs arising out of the incidents were incurred in respect of the write-off 
of damaged stock and destroyed assets.
Provision release
During the second half of the year, a third party assessment was carried out of the 
provision held in respect of the environmental liabilities associated with the Chemring 
Energetic Devices site in Illinois, USA. After taking into account this assessment and the 
additional insurance coverage that was secured in respect of this exposure during the year, 
the Group has released part of the provision. 
Financial highlights
• Revenue up 18% to £597.1 million
• Underlying profit before tax* up 14% 
to £116.8 million
• Underlying operating cash flow up 18% 
to £126.1 million
• Investment in research and development 
increased 81% to £34.2 million
• £104.6 million of undrawn borrowing 
facilities at the year end
Key information
Underlying operating profit*
£135.6m
+18%
Underlying operating cash flow
£126.1m
+18%
Operating margin
23%
*  Before acquisition related costs, intangible 
amortisation arising from business 
combinations and (loss)/gain on fair 
value movements on derivatives totalling 
£27.7 million (2009: £6.8 million) Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
21
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Analysis of underlying profit*
 
£m
2010 
£m
 
£m
2009 
£m
Underlying operating profit 135.6 114.7
Share of post-tax results of associate 0.1 0.1
Finance income 0.5 0.7
Finance expense (19.4) (12.9)
Net finance expense (18.9) (12.2)
Underlying profit before tax 116.8 102.6
Tax on underlying profit before tax (29.9) (27.6)
Underlying profit after tax 86.9 75.0
Finance income in the year was £0.5 million (2009: £0.7 million). 
Finance expense for the year was £19.4 million (2009: £12.9 million). 
Included within finance expense is £1.2 million (2009: £1.3 million) 
for retirement benefit obligations. Net finance expense was covered 
7.2 times (2009: 9.4 times) by underlying operating profit*, with the 
decrease of cover reflecting the fact that all acquisitions in the year 
were financed by debt. 
Underlying profit before tax* was £116.8 million (2009: £102.6 million), 
an increase of 14%.
Tax on the underlying profit before tax* was £29.9 million 
(2009: £27.6 million), representing an underlying rate 
of 26% (2009: 27%).
Underlying profit after tax* on continuing operations was 
£86.9 million (2009: £75.0 million), an increase of 16%.
Reconciliation of statutory operating profit 
to underlying operating profit* 
Underlying profit is used by the Board to measure and monitor the 
underlying performance of the Group. Set out below is a reconciliation 
of statutory operating profit and underlying operating profit.
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Statutory operating profit 107.9 107.9
Add back:
Acquisition related costs 6.7 -
Intangible amortisation arising 
from business combinations 17.0 13.8
Loss/(gain) on fair value 
movement on derivatives 4.0 (7.0)
Underlying operating profit* 135.6 114.7
During 2010 a revision of IFRS 3 Business Combinations was 
adopted relating to the treatment of costs incurred in relation to 
acquisitions. Accordingly, with effect from 1 November 2009, due 
diligence and other acquisition related costs have been charged to 
the Income Statement. In the past these costs have been charged 
to cost of investment.
Profit before tax and underlying profit before tax also vary by the 
above amounts.
All references in this report are to underlying operating profit and 
underlying profit before tax.
Shareholder returns
Underlying earnings per ordinary share* from continuing 
operations were 246p (2009: 213p), an increase of 15%. 
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations were 
189p (2009: 199p), a decrease of 5%. 
The total dividend per ordinary share of 59p (2009: 50p) is covered 
4.2 times (2009: 4.3 times) by the underlying earnings per share*.
Shareholders’ funds at the year end were £323.2 million 
(2009: £273.6 million).
Pensions 
The deficit on the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes before 
associated tax credits, as defined by IAS 19 Accounting for pension 
costs, was £23.0 million (2009: £28.1 million). The deficit reduced 
by 18% during the year due largely to the increase in the fair value 
of scheme assets as a result of the improvement in equity markets 
during the year. 
During the year, the 2009 triennial actuarial valuation for the UK 
Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme was concluded.
In accordance with the agreed funding plan, during the year the Group 
placed an additional £10.0 million in an escrow account (giving a total 
of £15.0 million) to provide additional funding for the Staff Pension 
Scheme in the event of a default. The bank guarantee for the Staff 
Pension Scheme, which may be drawn upon only in certain events of 
default by the Company, was maintained at £7.2 million during the 
year. Although the Staff Pension Scheme currently remains open for 
future accrual for existing members, most of our UK employees are 
now offered membership of a defined contribution pension scheme. 
The majority of our overseas pension arrangements are also defined 
contribution, save in those European countries where certain defined 
benefit pension arrangements are required. Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
22
Review by the Finance Director
continued
The Group continued its commitment to product innovation 
with research and development expenditure up 81% to 
£34.2 million.
Research and development
Research and development expenditure totalled £34.2 million 
(2009: £18.9 million), 81% higher than last year. An analysis of 
expenditure is set out below:
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Customer funded research and development 20.6 9.7
Internally funded research and development 5.8 4.4
Capitalised development costs 7.8 4.8
Total research and development expenditure 34.2 18.9
The Group’s policy is to write-off capitalised development costs 
over a three year period. Amortisation of development costs was 
£2.4 million (2009: £1.5 million).
Cash flow
Underlying operating cash flow was £126.1 million 
(2009: £106.7 million), which represents a conversion rate 
of underlying operating profit* to operating cash of 93% 
(2009: 93%). Working capital was well controlled in the year 
and was kept below increases in Group revenues.
Fixed asset expenditure across the Group was £48.7 million 
(2009: £38.2 million), which includes £18.8 million related to the 
construction of new facilities at our sites in Salisbury and Australia. 
These facilities will be completed during 2011, at a further cost of 
approximately £16 million. 
Cash flow before financing activities and acquisitions was 
£40.7 million (2009: £49.8 million), which represents a conversion 
rate of underlying operating profit* to cash flow of 30% (2009: 43%).
A summary of Group cash flow is set out below:
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Underlying operating cash flow 126.1 106.7
Acquisition related costs (6.7) -
Fixed asset expenditure (48.7) (38.2)
Tax (30.0) (18.7)
Cash flow before financing 
activities and acquisitions 40.7 49.8
Interest (14.0) (10.5)
Dividends (18.7) (13.8)
Net cash inflow before acquisitions 8.0  25.5 
Acquisitions
The following acquisitions were completed during the year:
Name of 
business acquired Activity 
Date of 
acquisition 
Proportion 
of shares 
acquired 
%
Acquisition 
consideration
£m
Hi-Shear Technology 
Corporation • 25 Nov 2009 100 78.7
Mecar S.A. • 1 Sept 2010 100 29.6
Roke Manor Research Ltd •• 30 Sept 2010 100 56.7
Other acquisitions • Various 19.2
Cash paid for acquisitions in the year 184.2
Net cash acquired with acquisitions (7.4)
Cash outflow from investing activities 176.8
Acquisition related costs included within 
cash generated from operations 6.7
Net cash outflow 183.5
•
 = Countermeasures   
•
 = Counter-IED   
•
 = Pyrotechnics   
•
 = Munitions
The combined net assets acquired are shown below: 
Book 
value 
£m
Provisional 
fair value 
adjustments 
£m
Fair 
value 
£m
Intangible assets 13.5 98.1 111.6
Property, plant and equipment 22.6 (0.6) 22.0
Cash 7.4 - 7.4
Regional development loan (5.0) - (5.0)
Finance leases (0.2) (0.2) (0.4)
Working capital (net of advance payments) 1.1 (11.6) (10.5)
Deferred tax 0.2 (26.0) (25.8)
Net assets acquired 39.6 59.7 99.3
Goodwill - 84.9 84.9
Total 39.6 144.6 184.2
Total cash paid for 
acquisitions during the year 184.2 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
23
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Net debt, facilities and going concern
Net debt at the year end was £307.5 million (2009: £122.8 million), 
an increase of 150%, which was predominantly due to the 
debt-funding of acquisitions during the year. The Group had 
£104.6 million (2009: £106.9 million) of undrawn borrowing 
facilities at the year end.
Gearing at the year end was 95% (2009: 45%). A summary of debt 
is set out below:
2010 
£m
Cash 58.4
Term loans (104.7)
Loan notes (261.2)
Net debt (307.5)
In November 2009 the Group completed a $280 million private 
placement of loan notes. The proceeds were used to fund the 
acquisitions of Hi-Shear and Mecar.
The Group’s two main bank covenants require that interest cover 
to EBITDA be maintained at not less than four times, and debt to 
EBITDA be maintained at not more than three times. At the year 
end, there was in excess of £80 million of headroom on both of 
these covenants. 
The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on going 
concern. Whilst the current volatility in financial markets has 
created general uncertainty, the Group has significant working 
capital headroom, strong covenant compliance and a record order 
book. Accordingly, the directors have a reasonable expectation 
that adequate financial resources will continue to be available for 
the foreseeable future. The going concern assumption is further 
supported by the recent bank refinancing, as noted in the post 
balance sheet events section below.
Foreign exchange
The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated 
into sterling at weighted average exchange rates. Currency 
denominated net assets are translated at year end rates.
Effective translation rates were as follows:
2010 2009
Average rates
US dollar 1.53 1.55
Euro 1.16 1.13
Year end rates
US dollar 1.60 1.65
Euro 1.15 1.12
The movements in the currencies against sterling were broadly 
neutral in the year.
Post balance sheet events
Bank refinancing
On 14 January 2011, the Group completed a refinancing of its bank 
facilities with a syndicate of five banks. The new Group facilities, 
which are unsecured, total £230 million, which is a £55 million 
increase on the previous secured facilities. In addition, the term of 
the facilities has been extended from April 2012 to April 2015.
The increase in the level of the facility and the tenure, together 
with the introduction of several new banks to the Group, will 
provide greater capacity and capability to support the Group’s 
future requirements.
Share split
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, shareholder approval 
will be sought to sub-divide the Company’s 5p ordinary shares into 
ordinary shares of 1p each. Further details are set out in the Notice 
of the Annual General Meeting. 
P A Rayner
Finance Director
18 January 2011
On 14 January 2011, the Group completed a refinancing of 
its banking facilities, increasing them to £230 million and 
extending the term to April 2015. Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
24
Key performance indicators
The Group’s strategy is underpinned by focusing on a number 
of key financial performance indicators. The key indicators that 
the Board utilises to assess Group performance are set out below. 
Similar indicators are used to review performance in each of 
the Group’s businesses. Details of non-financial performance 
indicators are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
The Board considers that the measurement of underlying 
and divisional operating profit provides additional useful 
information for users.
Orders received and order book
Orders received Order book
Continuing operations
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Countermeasures 219.2 281.7 265.4 232.0
Counter-IED 178.5 80.9 99.3 36.9
Pyrotechnics 181.4 145.2 171.9 172.4
Munitions 245.2 119.8 266.7 117.7
Total 824.3 627.6 803.3 559.0
The closing order book at the year end of £803.3 million represents 
a 44% increase on the previous year end. This reflects the significant 
increase in demand for the Group’s products during the year, and 
provides a solid base for performance in the current financial year. 
Since most of the Group’s contracts are annual contracts with 
delivery periods from six to twelve months following receipt of order, 
the order book represents a good leading indicator of the minimum 
revenues that will be traded in the following twelve months.
Operating profit**
Continuing operations
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Countermeasures 58.8 53.5 
Counter-IED 28.1 15.6
Pyrotechnics 40.1 43.8
Munitions 20.9 13.4
Total 147.9 126.3
**  Operating profits of the divisions are stated before charges for share-based 
payments, restructuring costs, incident costs, provision release, unallocated 
head office costs, acquisition related costs, intangible amortisation arising from 
business combinations and (loss)/gain on fair value movements on derivatives 
totalling £40.0 million (2009: £18.4 million).
The operating profit from continuing operations provides a consistent 
year-on-year measure of the trading performance of the divisions 
within the Group. It does not include significant non-recurring or 
exceptional costs that would distort a comparative assessment nor 
does it include unallocated corporate costs associated with operating 
a public company. The operating profit from continuing operations 
for the Group increased by 17% during the year, reflecting the strong 
operating performance of the divisions.
Return on sales 
Continuing operations
2010 
%
2009 
%
Countermeasures 30 29
Counter-IED 25 25
Pyrotechnics 24 25
Munitions 18 16
Total 25 25
The return on sales percentage is a vital measure that provides 
an assessment of the profitability of the business and allows a 
comparison to be made of management performance and trading 
effectiveness independent of revenue size. In a company with a 
significant rate of growth, such a measure provides a clear indicator 
of whether revenue growth has occurred at the expense of profit 
or whether market conditions, such as competitive pressures, have 
made an impact. The divisions have largely maintained their return 
on sales consistent with last year. 
Interest cover
2010 2009
Total 7.2 times 9.4 times
Interest cover provides a clear and simple metric of the ratio 
between the operating profit generated by trading, compared 
with the funding requirement to maintain the current debt. It is an 
important indicator for the Group and forms the basis of one of our 
specified banking covenants, which requires us to maintain at all 
times interest cover of at least 4 times. Net finance expense was 
covered 7.2 times by underlying operating profit* at the year end. 
The Board aims to keep interest cover at a prudent level.
Underlying operating cash flow
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Total 126.1 106.7
Operating cash flow provides a simple measure of the cash generated 
by trading within the businesses. It represents the money available 
to fund capital expenditure, interest payments, tax and shareholder 
dividends. The Group underlying operating cash flow increased by 
18% to £126.1 million during the year. This represents a conversion 
rate of underlying operating profit* to underlying operating cash 
of 93%. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
25
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Principal risks and uncertainties
As described on pages 48 and 49, the Board is responsible for the Group’s systems of internal control and its risk management systems. 
The Board has constituted a Risk Management Committee, which meets quarterly, to review the key risks associated with the achievement of 
the annual budget and the five year plan for each business; the top five health and safety risks identified at each site; and the risk control 
procedures implemented. The Committee reports biannually to the Audit Committee and the Board and, through this process, the Board 
has identified the following principal risks currently facing the Group. The mitigating actions taken by the Group management to address 
these risks are also set out below. The Group mitigates its risk exposure through an insurance programme that covers property and 
liability risks, where it is appropriate and cost effective to do so.
Risk Mitigation actions
Health and safety risks 
The nature of the Group’s operations, 
involving energetic materials, is such that 
the Board considers health and safety to 
be a key area of focus in managing risk.
Health and safety is included on the agenda at every Board meeting and is discussed at 
the monthly Group Executive Committee meeting. The Board believes that responsibility 
for the delivery of world class safety standards is an integral part of the operational 
management accountability, and managers are therefore expected to embrace a 
positive safety culture and to demonstrate leadership and commitment in the workplace. 
All employees are encouraged to report potential hazards, and to raise any health and 
safety concerns through the appropriate channels. 
Our stated aim is to achieve zero injuries and to reduce health and safety risks, 
where they cannot be eliminated altogether, to a level which is “as low as reasonably 
practicable”. All businesses are expected to proactively manage their own risks but 
in addition, the top five site risks at each business and their associated mitigation 
programmes are reviewed on a monthly basis by the Group Executive Committee and 
quarterly by the Risk Management Committee. Technology and automation roadmaps 
support the Group’s strategy for risk reduction through increased automation and 
remote operations, and this strategy is reflected in the Group’s five year plan. 
Further details on the Group’s approach to health and safety are set out in the Corporate 
Responsibility Review.
Possible defence budget cuts
We recognise that with large budget 
deficits and the prevailing economic 
conditions, there will be continued 
downward pressure on many countries’ 
budgets and defence expenditure could 
be severely impacted. 
Given the largely consumable nature of the Group’s products and the fact that we 
are not generally exposed to very large, long term defence programmes, the Board 
is currently confident that the Group will not be significantly affected by future cuts 
in worldwide defence budgets. However, we continually assess whether our proposed 
product developments align with priorities for future funding. Most of our product 
development programmes take between six and twelve months to complete, and we 
believe that this gives the Board the opportunity to quickly re-deploy engineering staff 
to product areas where funding is secure. We are also focusing our growth strategy 
on those countries where defence expenditure is forecast to grow over the next five to 
ten years. We continue to monitor the position very closely.
Timing of orders
The Group has a very strong order book 
but in general, the majority of the Group’s 
contracts are of a relatively short duration 
and, with the exception of framework 
contracts with key customers, do not 
usually cover multi-year requirements. 
This means that an unmitigated delay in 
the receipt of key orders could affect the 
Group’s earnings, and achievement of its 
growth targets, in a given financial year. 
Maximising order intake is therefore a key 
priority for the Group.
We continue to address this through the strengthening of our sales and marketing 
resources within individual businesses and at a divisional level. 
The development of world class manufacturing facilities, with the ability to transfer 
manufacture across sites and with an efficient enterprise resource planning system, also 
provides us with the flexibility to change our manufacturing schedules, if anticipated 
orders are delayed and need to be replaced at short notice, and to satisfy our customers’ 
surge requirements. 
We continue to pursue long term, multi-year contracts with our major customers 
wherever possible.  Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
26
Risk Mitigation actions
Management resource
The Group requires competent 
management if it is to achieve its growth 
expectations, successfully integrate its 
acquired businesses and meet its order 
capture targets. The Board has identified, 
in particular, that the Group needs to 
strengthen its sales and marketing 
resources, in order to maximise order 
intake as explained above, and its 
engineering resources, in order to 
undertake the product development 
activities needed to support the Group’s 
five year plan.
The Group Executive Committee reviews the strengths and weaknesses of the 
management team at each business twice a year, and the Board undertakes an annual 
review of future requirements as part of the strategic planning process. We continue to 
strengthen the management organisation across the Group, and a number of additional 
senior appointments have been made during the year.
We undertake a specific detailed review of our future sales and marketing and 
engineering resource requirements each year, and we are actively recruiting in each of 
these areas. During the year, we also undertook a review of the future requirements for 
our finance and IT functions, and we are now implementing a new long term IT strategy 
that will respond to the planned future expansion of the Group.
Introduction of new 
manufacturing facilities 
We are currently investing significant 
capital expenditure in the establishment 
of new manufacturing facilities in the UK, 
the USA, Italy and Australia. We need to 
ensure that these facilities are completed 
within budget and on time, in order to 
maximise our manufacturing capacity for 
our future growth expectations. 
Progress on all of the significant capital investment projects is being closely monitored 
by the Group Executive Committee and the Board. 
A Senior Project Director has been appointed to oversee the design and construction 
activities for the new countermeasures facilities in the UK and Australia, and dedicated 
project managers have been appointed to oversee the other major programmes in the 
USA and continental Europe. 
The new countermeasures facilities have taken slightly longer to complete than 
originally expected, due to the significant challenges associated with the new automated 
processes which are being installed, but both the UK and Australian facilities should be 
commissioned in 2011. 
Introduction of new products
The Group’s approach to innovation and 
continued research and development 
activity ensure that we are continually 
adding new products to the range. 
We need to ensure that this new product 
development is completed in a timely 
manner to a standard which allows us 
to undertake volume manufacturing, 
and to produce products against high 
reliability and safety criteria to meet 
our customers’ requirements. 
As referred to above, we continue to strengthen our engineering resources to ensure that 
we have the right people to deliver the product development activities in our five year plan.
In the UK, we have a five year research partnership with Cranfield University, looking at 
new technologies and products for future development. We also have smaller partnerships 
with a number of US universities, including the Georgia Technology & Research Institute, 
University of Massachusetts, Penn. State University, Duke University, University of Florida, 
University of Louisville, Missouri University, South Dakota School of Mines, and the 
New Jersey Institute of Technology.
We continue to build new manufacturing facilities to accommodate the production of new 
products, and to increase capacity on our existing production lines. This necessitates 
careful management of contractors – where construction work is being undertaken, 
suppliers – where new components have to be qualified for use in our products, and 
employees – where training in new skills is required. We continue to introduce Six Sigma 
techniques as appropriate within the organisation to improve our manufacturing 
capabilities. This investment in new facilities will continue over the course of our five 
year plan.
Political risks
It is recognised that the nature of the 
current military operations around the 
world may change over the next three to 
five years.
It is also recognised that changes in 
the political structure in certain of the 
countries to which we currently sell 
could impact on their future defence 
expenditure strategy. 
We do not believe that the Group’s Countermeasures business will be significantly 
impacted by a change in current military operations, as our products will still be required 
to provide defensive protection during the continuing peacekeeping activities. Growth in 
the Countermeasures division will be delivered as our proprietary products are fitted to 
a range of new platforms in Europe and the USA.
The Group’s Counter-IED, Pyrotechnics and Munitions businesses are less dependent 
on these military operations, particularly as the product portfolio continues to grow 
in areas such as IED-detection, space, safety systems, training, munitions components 
and naval ammunition.
Our businesses strive to maintain relationships at all levels within the political structure 
of certain key countries, in order to ensure that we are aware of and can counter 
proposed changes if and when they occur. 
Principal risks and uncertainties
continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
27
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Risk Mitigation actions
Competitive risks
Defence is a global industry, which 
is constantly challenged to counter 
ever-changing threats. The Group’s 
strategy is to focus on targeted niches 
in energetic materials and systems, 
where the nature of the products and the 
requisite production and qualification 
processes provide significant barriers 
to new entrants. However, as threats 
evolve, new businesses offering new 
solutions may enter the market.
The nature of the threat from missiles and other weapons is continually changing, 
particularly as new platforms are introduced in different countries, and countermeasures 
solutions need to develop on an ongoing basis to meet the enhanced requirements. 
The number of countermeasures manufacturers is currently small but as technologies 
change, existing manufacturers compete for new products and new businesses can enter 
into the market. The Group is currently the world leader in the supply and manufacture 
of expendable countermeasures, with a number of proprietary products, and we 
intend to maintain this position through our continued investment in research and 
development, and world class manufacturing facilities. 
The competitive threats to our Counter-IED, Pyrotechnics and Munitions businesses 
are generally lower, as the markets are fragmented and our competitors are generally 
companies with national market positions and limited product ranges. Our core strategy is 
to grow our business by taking market share and we are, therefore, strongly focused on our 
research and development activities to ensure we have new updated product available at 
the right time. We also invest substantial funds to enhance our manufacturing capabilities, 
in order to maintain our leading position in our niche technologies and markets.
Compliance and corruption risks
The Group operates in over eighty 
countries worldwide, and is subject to 
the laws and regulations of each of these 
countries. The Group must ensure that 
all of its businesses, its employees and 
third parties acting on its behalf comply 
with their legal obligations, and do not 
expose the Group to financial penalties 
or reputational damage. 
The Group has a central legal and compliance function which assists and monitors all 
Group businesses, and we have recently strengthened our internal resource in the USA 
with the appointment of in-house counsel. The Group’s internal audit activities have been 
expanded to incorporate a review of legal risks. 
The Group has a Code of Business Principles, which stipulates the standard of acceptable 
business conduct required from all of our employees and third parties acting on our 
behalf. A significant proportion of the Group’s management have received training in 
relation to ethics and anti-corruption. 
The Group has committed to adherence with the European Aerospace and Defence 
Association’s Common Industry Standards on Anti-Corruption, and has updated all of its 
business processes, including arrangements with third party representatives, in order to 
achieve full compliance. 
Financial risks
Details of the financial risks to which the 
Group is potentially exposed are set out in 
Note 24 of the financial statements. Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
28
Corporate Responsibility Review
Our approach
The Group fully acknowledges its obligation to 
ensure the responsible operation of its business 
at all times with due regards to the interests of 
shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers 
and the wider community. 
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and 
maintaining the Group’s policies in this area, and the Chief Executive 
is accountable to the Board for ensuring that the Group’s businesses 
adhere to these policies.
The Board recognises that the long term success of the Group will 
be enhanced by a positive interaction with all of our stakeholders, 
and has determined that the Group’s corporate responsibility 
initiatives should be focused on the following key areas:
• Health and safety
• Employee support and development
• Environmental protection
• Ethical business conduct 
We intend that our corporate responsibility approach should be fully 
embedded within our businesses, and our senior management bonus 
plan incorporates specific objectives in each of the above areas.
Further details of our approach are set out below.
In the workplace
Health and safety 
Our policy and practices
The Board recognises that the highest levels of safety are required 
in order to protect our employees, product end users and the 
general public, whilst achieving growth and maintaining leadership 
in the Group’s chosen markets. The Board believes that all incidents 
and injuries are preventable, and long term strategies have been 
adopted to ensure that we continually improve our performance 
and reduce risk. 
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for health, safety 
and environmental matters across the Group. The Group Director 
of Safety reports directly to the Chief Executive, and is responsible 
for the effective administration and implementation of the Group’s 
health, safety and environment strategy. The Group Director of 
Safety is a member of the Group Executive Committee and reports 
on the performance of all businesses against agreed targets and 
objectives. The Chief Executive reports monthly to the Board on 
all key health and safety issues.
The Board requires that all businesses systematically manage their 
health and safety hazards, set objectives, monitor progress by 
regular measurement, audit and review, and take additional action 
where necessary. Each Managing Director is responsible for the 
management of health and safety within their business and for 
providing adequate resources to satisfy the Board’s requirements. 
All Managing Directors have health and safety related objectives 
incorporated within their annual bonus plan. Managers in our 
businesses are required to enforce procedures, and to provide 
leadership and commitment to promote and embrace a positive 
health and safety culture. We emphasise the importance of individual 
responsibility for health and safety at all levels of the organisation, 
and expect employees to report potential hazards, to be involved in 
implementing solutions, and to adhere to rules and procedures. 
We recognise that a key element in the continual improvement 
of health and safety management is sharing best practice and 
lessons learnt from incidents across all of the Group’s companies. 
An alert system is in place that formally ensures key findings 
from incidents are quickly communicated to all operational sites 
and actions taken as appropriate. All accidents, incidents and 
near misses are investigated with actions generated to prevent 
recurrence. A Health, Safety and Environment Technical Group, 
with representatives from across the Group, supports continual 
improvement through the development and promotion of good 
health and safety practice.
In 2010, extensive safety compliance audits were conducted at 
all Group facilities using internationally recognised, external 
consultancy firms. The audits incorporated a review of process 
safety management in the USA, and addressed Seveso II 
requirements in Europe. All findings were subject to corrective 
action reviews to ensure closure and added to a findings database 
which is shared across the Group.
We aim to have all of our businesses certified to the international 
health and safety management system OHSAS18001, with the 
requirement that all newly acquired businesses are certified within 
two years post-acquisition. We are fully compliant with this aim, 
with the exception of the Chemring Ordnance facility, acquired in 
2008, in Florida, which is scheduled to be certified by the end of 
the first quarter of 2011.
Newly-acquired businesses are rapidly introduced to the Group’s 
safety philosophy, with detailed regulatory compliance audits and 
programme gap analysis. 
Safety is a major item for consideration by the Group’s Risk 
Management Committee. All businesses are required to produce 
a risk register from which the top five health and safety risks and 
improvement actions to reduce the risks to as low as reasonably 
practicable are reviewed on a monthly basis.
The Group has committed to substantial investments in 
manufacturing facilities that will, in addition to improving 
productivity, improve the safety of the workforce by reducing the 
levels of risk. We apply particular attention to those facilities that 
compare unfavourably with their peers, and systems and processes 
are in place to facilitate the sharing of information across the 
Group. Our ongoing safety improvement activities are focused on 
ensuring that our buildings, processes and products are as safe as 
reasonably practicable for our employees and product users. 
The Group has an established relationship with Cranfield University, 
both for the supply of employee training programmes and for the 
development of simulation modelling to evaluate blast and thermal 
effects from the ignition of pyrotechnic and other materials. 
Additionally, annual training in the handling of energetic materials 
is conducted by third party experts.
Our performance
Energetic events causing injury
Whilst we take all incidents seriously, we pay particular attention to 
those where employees sustain injury due to an energetic event. 
In November 2009 two contractors working at our Salisbury, UK 
facility suffered first degree burns during the disassembly of an 
obsolete extraction unit. Contractor management and permit to 
work systems have since been examined at all facilities and where 
potential gaps were observed, improvements were introduced. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
29
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
In September 2010 a fire at our Kilgore facility in Toone, Tennessee 
resulted in three employees sustaining serious injury. This incident 
remains under investigation by the regulatory authorities. Also in 
September, a small detonator initiated at our Chemring Energetics 
facility in Ardeer, Scotland, resulting in minor wounds to the hand 
of an operator.
Energetic events not causing physical injury
In 2010 we had unexpected energetic events at Kilgore, at Chemring 
Countermeasures in the UK, and at Chemring Defence in Derby, UK.
In September 2010 a deflagration at our newly acquired Mecar facility 
in Belgium resulted in a voluntary stop of all production. Following 
this incident, an extensive step-by-step improvement programme 
was implemented, which must be satisfactorily completed for each 
production process before the process is allowed to restart.
These events caused no physical injuries.
Other lost time events
Excluding the newly acquired Mecar and Roke businesses, the 
Group lost time incident rate (calculated using the US Occupational 
Safety and Health Administration rules) showed a modest 
improvement from 1.13 to 1.06 incidents per 100 employees during 
the year. Six of our sites reported no lost work days in the year, 
which is an excellent achievement.
Our historical lost time incident rate performance is shown below:
Lost time incident rate performance
0
2.0
1.5
1.0
Incidents per 100 employees
0.5
2005 2006 2007 2008 2010 2009
1.6 1.59 1.58
1.2
1.13
1.06
A total of thirty two lost time incidents were recorded in the year, 
categorised as follows:
0
12
Slip, trip, fall
Crush
Strain, sprain
Energetic event
RSI
Laceration/graze
Struck against object
Stress
Chemical burn
Puncture wound
8
Incidents
4
10
6
2
Employees
The Board recognises the valuable contribution that the Group’s 
employees continue to make to its success, and aims to provide a 
working environment that reflects and rewards this. The Group now 
has 4,283 (2009: 3,349) employees based in eight countries. 
Employment practices
The Group’s policy is to provide equal opportunities for all 
employees, irrespective of race, nationality, gender, sexual 
orientation, marital status, religion or political belief, disability or 
age. The Group is committed to meeting, at a minimum, the labour 
rights and legislation requirements in each country in which it 
operates, and in practice, often exceeds these. Our employment 
practices policies are introduced at newly-acquired businesses at 
the earliest opportunity after they join the Group. 
Male  64%
Female  36%
Gender diversity
  
White  77%
Non-white  23%
Ethnic diversity
  
Development and training
We continue to address training and development requirements for 
employees at all levels within the organisation. All of our businesses 
consider training needs for their employees at a local level, in order 
to ensure that they have the right skill base to deliver their five 
year strategic plan. The Board also undertakes a detailed review 
of the future management requirements and succession plans as 
part of the annual strategic planning process. Specific plans have 
been developed in relation to sales and marketing and engineering 
resources, in order to identify the requirements for future 
recruitment and development of our existing employees in these 
areas, and to ensure that we have the right capabilities to meet our 
future growth targets. 
Our European businesses fully implemented a new “people capability 
process” for performance appraisal and management during the year.
Our undergraduate “year in industry” placement scheme continues 
to be successful, and we aim to extend this programme each 
year. We are developing our graduate recruitment initiatives, and 
our acquisition of Roke, which has a well-established and highly 
successful graduate programme, will be of great benefit in this area.  Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
30
Corporate Responsibility Review
continued
Benefits
We aim to provide all of our employees with an attractive and 
competitive benefits package. Almost all of our businesses offer 
occupational pension scheme arrangements and our US employees 
receive health care. A number of our businesses offer health 
screening services and other health-related initiatives such as 
“stop-smoking” clinics. 
The Board is keen to encourage employees to join share schemes 
in order that they can share in the future success of the Group. 
We currently offer savings-related share plans to our UK and 
US employees, and plan to replicate these in the other countries 
in which we operate in the future. 
Communications
The Group pursues a policy of employee communication through 
meetings (including team briefings and works councils) and 
in-house magazines by which employees are made aware of the 
progress of the Group and the companies in which they work. 
We also engage with our employees through representative 
bodies and trade unions. 
Employee surveys are undertaken in relation to specific matters, 
such as health and safety, from time to time. 
A Group magazine, The Chemring Eye, is published on a quarterly 
basis and distributed to all of our employees.
In the environment
Our policy and practices 
The Board believes that protecting the environment by minimising 
our environmental impact will help to secure the long term future 
of our businesses. The Group’s Environmental Policy states that 
we will control pollution, minimise the quantity of material burnt 
at each site, consume resources efficiently, and use materials that 
minimise the environmental impact of our operations. 
With the exception of the recent acquisitions, all of the Group’s 
businesses are certified to the environmental management system 
ISO14001, which requires the setting of environmental goals and 
objectives focused on local aspects and impacts. Additionally, we 
monitor key environmental data across the Group. 
Land quality
The Chemring Energetic Devices (formerly Scot) facility, which is 
based in Downers Grove, Illinois, USA, is located on a site which 
has “superfund” status under the US contaminated land (CERCLA) 
regime. The Group carries a £2.2 million provision in respect of 
the pre-acquisition environmental liabilities associated with the 
site, which the Board considers to be adequate (see Note 25 of the 
financial statements). We continue to work with external consultants 
and the regulatory authorities to ensure that the legal obligations of 
the business in relation to this matter are fully satisfied. 
During the year, at the request of the Italian authorities, we 
completed soil sampling at Simmel Difesa’s facility in Colleferro as 
part of an overall regional characterisation exercise. No significant 
contamination was found.
The newly acquired Mecar business in Belgium has been working 
with its local regulator for some time to remediate historical 
contamination. It is anticipated that this will be an ongoing activity.
Incidents
An environmental incident occurred at Chemring Countermeasures 
in the UK in May 2009, when a corroded pipe led to the spillage of 
dichloromethane. A soil vapour extraction plant has been installed, 
which will continue to draw the dichloromethane from the 
sub-surface until the levels of contamination have been reduced 
to a level acceptable to the regulator.
Performance
Our environmental performance improved during the year in all of 
our target areas: energy, emissions, waste and water.
Energy and emissions
During 2008 we collected detailed data on travel within the Group, 
which revealed that this activity represented less than 3% of our 
overall carbon footprint. Energy utilisation is therefore our main focus 
of attention. We do not include emissions from our supply chain, nor 
use and disposal of products in our carbon footprint calculation.
Chemring Energetics at Ardeer in Scotland is currently the 
only site that falls under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme. 
However, all UK facilities participate in the Carbon Reduction 
Commitment programme.
Our total emissions during the year, excluding those of businesses 
acquired during the year, in carbon dioxide equivalents were 
as follows:
Source
2010 
(tonnes CO
2
)
2009 
(tonnes CO
2
)
2008 
(tonnes CO
2
)
2007 
(tonnes CO
2
)
Electricity 38,303 36,334 29,128 21,556
Gas 14,033 12,512 12,384 11,931
Oil 3,111 2,008 2,351 2,878
Total 55,447 50,854 43,863 36,365
The Group’s total emissions increased by 9% against a strong 
increase in revenue, which means that our overall carbon intensity 
reduced during the year as follows:
2010 2009 2008 2007
Total emissions (tonnes) 55,447 50,854 43,863 36,365
Group revenue (£million)* 571 504 354 254
Tonnes of CO
2
per £million of revenue 97 101 124 143
* Group revenue for 2010 excludes £26.5 million relating to acquisitions during the year.
We are increasing our efforts to address energy conservation 
and thus indirect emissions in the future. All UK sites have had 
independent energy audits and all of our businesses have emissions 
reduction programmes in place.
The Group participated in the 2010 Carbon Disclosure Project.
Waste 
Our total non-recycled waste generated, excluding that generated 
by businesses acquired during the year, reduced for the second 
year in a row:
2010 
(tonnes waste)
2009 
(tonnes waste)
2008 
(tonnes waste)
Non-hazardous 1,152 1,576 1,027
Hazardous 352 419 1,425
Total 1,504 1,995 2,452 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
31
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Many of our facilities are permitted to burn waste materials on site 
within closely controlled facilities. We offer a collection service 
in the UK for time-expired marine pyrotechnics, including those 
produced by other manufacturers, and these are transferred to an 
accredited third party disposal service. 
The Group is currently investing in a new demilitarisation facility 
in Italy, which will allow the return of time expired and obsolete 
munitions for decommissioning and disassembly. The individual 
materials will then be recycled back into the supply chain.
Water
We consumed a total of 1,550,374 m
3
 of water compared to 
1,762,000 m
3
 last year, an absolute reduction of 13% during 
a period of strong revenue growth.
In the community
Helping others
The Board recognises that each of the Group’s businesses has an 
important role to play in its local community. 
The Board operates a charitable policy, which confirms its 
commitment to support selected charitable causes with a focus 
on the military and armed services, and those linked to the local 
communities in which the Group’s businesses operate. At a Group 
level, charitable donations are considered on a monthly basis by the 
Executive Committee, and each business has its own locally held 
charity budget. Examples of support provided during the year include:
• Donations to a range of charities including Help for Heroes, 
Army Benevolent Fund, Supporting Royal Marines, Royal British 
Legion, Queen Alexandra Hospital Home, Scottish Veterans 
Garden City Association, Army Arts Society, various health 
and cancer charities, local hospitals and schools, and ongoing 
support for the Mary Rose Appeal and SSAFA. 
• Sponsorship of the 7 Air Assault Battalion Royal Electrical 
and Mechanical Engineers (REME) Royal Navy Field Gun Crew, 
the Red Devils, the Combined Services Under 23 Rugby Team 
and the Royal Artillery Gold Cup Day. 
• Sponsorship of the UK Aerospace Youth Rocketry Challenge. 
In addition to making cash donations, the Group also encourages 
and supports employees who undertake voluntary work in the local 
community, where appropriate. During the year, our employees 
donated their time and services on a wide range of projects, several 
of which had an educational bias. 
The Group is involved with a number of educational initiatives, 
notably including the sponsorship of various local schools. 
The Group has a partnership agreement with Cranfield University, 
under which the Group has committed to the provision of significant 
funding for students’ research activities over a five year period. 
With regards to the impact of our manufacturing activities on 
the local community, at locations where our operations may 
inconvenience neighbours through product proofing, we liaise with 
local residents to minimise any impact. We are also cognisant of 
the potential impact of our operations on the local environment, 
and we are addressing this through our environmental strategy.
In the marketplace
Policy on the Sale of Goods and Services
The Group’s strategy is to become the leading producer of 
protection systems and energetic products for the global defence 
market, and we continue to deliver significant growth in this area 
though a combination of organic development and acquisitions. 
The scope of the Group’s activities has broadened significantly 
in recent years, particularly with regards to the supply of 
components and sub-systems for various types of munitions, 
and there is increasing demand for the supply to our customers 
of third party products. Consequently, the Board has adopted a 
Policy on the Sale of Goods and Services, which provides guidance 
to all stakeholders on the products and services that the Group will 
supply, to which customers and to which countries, and sets out 
a clear definition of what we will not supply. All Group businesses 
are required to comply with this policy, which addresses both legal 
and ethical considerations with regards to certain products. 
Business Conduct
The Group has adopted a Code of Business Principles, which 
requires our employees, our businesses and all third parties who act 
on our behalf to comply with our standards of acceptable business 
conduct and applicable laws and regulations in all of the countries in 
which we operate. 
The managing directors of each business are required to report 
to the Chief Executive on compliance with the Code of Business 
Principles on an annual basis. 
Ethics and anti-corruption
The Group has committed to adherence with the European 
Aerospace and Defence Association’s Common Industry Standards 
on Anti-Corruption, and we continued to work towards achieving 
full compliance during the year. Our ethics and anti-corruption 
programme now incorporates the following: 
• Regular training for management and employees working within 
commercial, sales and marketing, finance and human resource 
functions on ethics and anti-corruption.
• A Group-wide policy and procedures on the appointment of agents 
and other third party representatives, stipulating due diligence and 
contractual requirements, approval levels and review processes. 
• Policies and procedures on the giving and receiving of gifts 
and hospitality. 
Our Code of Business Principles also incorporates the Common 
Industry Standards.
Our US businesses have adopted an ethical compliance programme 
to satisfy US Government requirements for ethical training for 
employees, compliance audits, an employees’ “hotline”, and related 
investigation procedures. 
The Group has a whistleblowing policy and procedures in place 
which enable all employees to raise concerns, in confidence, 
about possible improprieties. These arrangements now reflect the 
requirements of the Common Industry Standards.  Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
32
Directors and corporate information
Peter C F Hickson~+
Non-Executive Chairman
Joined the Group as a 
non-executive director 
on 1 July 2010 and was 
appointed Chairman of the 
Board on 1 October 2010. 
Currently Chairman of 
Communisis plc, Senior 
Independent Director of 
London & Continental Railways 
Ltd and a non-executive 
director of Kazakhymys PLC. 
He has had senior management 
experience with a number of 
large international companies 
and previous appointments 
include Chairman of Anglian 
Water Group, Finance Director of 
Powergen plc and non-executive 
directorships of Scottish Power 
plc, Marconi Corporation 
plc and RAC plc. He is also a 
trustee and Board member 
of Orbis Charitable Trust, 
the international sight 
saving charity, and a 
Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants.
Aged 65.
Headquarters and 
registered office
Chemring House, 1500 Parkway, 
Whiteley, Fareham, Hampshire 
PO15 7AF, England 
Tel: +44 1489 881880 
Fax: +44 1489 881123 
Website: www.chemring.co.uk
Registration number
86662
Registrars
Computershare Investor 
Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS13 8AE
Dr David J Price CBE 
CEng CSci
Chief Executive
Joined the Group in 
April 2005 as Chief Executive. 
Formerly Managing Director, 
Naval Marine at Rolls-Royce plc 
and Managing Director of 
Thomson (UK) Holdings Ltd 
(now part of the Thales Group). 
Fellow of the Institute of 
Engineering & Technology 
and the Institute of Marine 
Engineering, Science & 
Technology. Member of the 
Defence Industries Council, 
and appointed member of 
the Council for Southampton 
University in 2010. 
Aged 55.
Paul A Rayner FCA
Finance Director
Joined the Group in June 1994 
and acted as Finance Director to 
several Group companies before 
being appointed to the Board 
in August 1999. Formerly a 
Senior Audit Manager with 
Deloitte & Touche.
Aged 49.
David R Evans
Non-Executive Director
Joined the Group in 1987 
as Managing Director of the 
Countermeasures business and 
appointed to the Board in 1988. 
He took up his current position 
as a non-executive director in 
April 2005, after stepping down 
as Chief Executive, a position he 
had held since January 1999. 
Managing Director of the 
Marconi torpedo business prior 
to joining the Group. Currently 
a non-executive director of 
Avon Rubber plc. Previously 
a non-executive director of 
Whatman PLC.
Aged 64. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
33
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Membership of Board committees during year: * Audit, ~ Remuneration, + Nomination
The Rt Hon 
Lord Freeman*~
Non-Executive Director
Joined the Group as a 
non-executive director in 
May 2006. Chairman of the 
Audit Committee. Currently a 
Consultant (formerly Partner) 
to PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
Chairman of Thales UK Advisory 
Board and a non-executive 
director of Savile Group PLC. 
He is also on the main Board of 
Thales S.A., France. Partner with 
Lehman Brothers Investment 
Bankers between 1969 and 
1985. Member of Parliament 
from 1983 to 1997. Made a Privy 
Councillor in 1993. Minister 
1985–1997.
Aged 68.
Ian F R Much*~+
Non-Executive Director
Joined the Group as a 
non-executive director 
in December 2004. 
Senior Independent Director 
and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. 
Previous appointments include 
Chief Executive of De La Rue plc 
and T&N plc, and non-executive 
director of Admiral plc, 
Camelot plc, Manchester 
United plc and Simplyhealth 
Group Ltd. Currently a 
non-executive director 
of Senior plc and BTG plc.
Aged 66.
Air Marshal 
Sir Peter Norriss KBE 
CB AFC MA FRAeS*~+
Non-Executive Director
Joined the Group as a 
non-executive director 
in May 2004. Currently a 
Consultant to Tessella plc and 
a Senior Adviser to Newton. 
He is also a member of major 
programme review teams 
for the Office of Government 
Commerce and an adviser 
or court member at four 
universities. Formerly Deputy 
Chief of Defence Procurement 
(Operations) and Controller 
Aircraft on the Air Force Board. 
Past President of the Royal 
Aeronautical Society (2003-4).
Aged 66.
Sarah Ellard FCIS
Company Secretary Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
34
Directors’ Report 
for the year ended 31 October 2010
The directors present their annual report, together with the 
audited financial statements of the Group and the Company for 
the year ended 31 October 2010.
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group are the design, manufacture 
and sale of countermeasures, counter-IED equipment, pyrotechnics 
and munitions.
Business review
The Statement by the Chairman, the Review by the Chief Executive 
and the Review by the Finance Director, together with the sections 
of the annual report on each of the business segments, key 
performance indicators and principal risks, and the Corporate 
Responsibility Review on pages 4 to 33, provide a review of the 
Group’s business development, performance and position during 
and at the end of the financial year; its strategy and likely future 
development; key performance indicators; and a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business. 
Further information regarding financial risk management policies 
and financial instruments is given in Note 24 of the financial 
statements. Details of significant events since the balance sheet 
date are contained in Note 36 of the financial statements.
Results and dividends
The profit attributable to the Group’s shareholders for the year 
was £66.7 million (2009: £70.1 million). The directors recommend 
a final dividend of 42p per ordinary share, which together with the 
interim dividend of 17p per ordinary share paid in August 2010 gives 
a total for the year of 59p (2009: 50p). The final dividend is subject 
to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 
24 March 2011, and accordingly has not been included as a liability 
in these financial statements.
Directors and their interests
The present directors are shown on pages 32 and 33.
Mr P C F Hickson was appointed as a director on 1 July 2010. He will 
be seeking re-appointment under Article 87.1 of the Company’s 
Articles of Association at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
Mr Hickson does not have a service contract with the Company.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, all 
directors are required to submit themselves for re-election every 
three years. However, in order to ensure compliance with the revised 
UK Corporate Governance Code during the financial year ending 
31 October 2011, all directors will voluntarily submit themselves for 
re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the 
Company. Details of the service contracts between the Company and 
Dr Price and Mr Rayner are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on page 42.
Mr K C Scobie retired as a director and Chairman of the Board on 
30 September 2010.
None of the directors had a beneficial interest in any contract of 
significance to which the Group was a party during the year ended 
31 October 2010.
Information required as to directors’ shareholdings is set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Substantial shareholdings
At 17 January 2011 the following substantial holdings in the ordinary 
share capital of the Company had been notified to the Company 
in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules of the Financial Services Authority:
Name % Interest
Invesco Limited 19.15
Old Mutual Asset Managers 5.13
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 5.07
JP Morgan Chase & Co. 4.94
AXA S.A. and its group of companies 4.84
Standard Life Investments Ltd 4.57
Legal and General Group PLC 3.97
BT Pension Scheme Trustees Ltd as Trustees of the 
BT Pension Scheme 3.84
Employees
Details of the Group’s employment policies are set out in the 
Corporate Responsibility Review on page 29. 
Charitable and political donations
Charitable donations amounting to £98,400 (2009: £61,200) were 
made during the year. No political donations were made during the 
year (2009: £nil).
Contractual arrangements
The Group contracts with a wide range of customers, comprising 
governments, armed forces, prime contractors and OEMs across the 
globe. The US Department of Defense is the largest single customer, 
and procures the Group’s products under a significant number of 
separate contracts placed with individual Group businesses.
The Group’s businesses utilise many suppliers across the world, and 
arrangements are in place to ensure that businesses are not totally 
reliant on single suppliers for key raw materials or components.
Policy on payment of suppliers
It is the policy of the Group that each of the Group companies 
should agree appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions 
with suppliers. These will range from standard written terms to 
individually negotiated contracts. Creditor days of the Group as at 
31 October 2010 amounted to 83 days (2009: 78 days).
The Chemring Group Performance Share Plan 
(the “PSP”)
The following conditional awards were made under the PSP during 
the year:
Date of award
Total number of 
shares awarded
Number of participants 
receiving awards
20 January 2010 105,693 31
18 March 2010 5,115 2
Total 110,808 33 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
35
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The Chemring Group 2008 UK Sharesave Plan 
(the “UK Sharesave Plan”)
On 30 July 2010 options were granted over 17,921 ordinary shares. 
Options over 432 ordinary shares were exercised during the year 
and options on 5,705 shares lapsed. Additional information is set 
out in Note 31.
The Chemring Group 2008 US Stock Purchase 
Plan (the “US Stock Purchase Plan”)
On 30 July 2010 options were granted over 11,227 ordinary shares. 
Options over 2,387 ordinary shares were exercised during the year 
and options on 2,815 shares lapsed. Additional information is set 
out in Note 31.
Approach to share ownership
The Group actively encourages its employees to share in the 
future success of the Group. A third grant of options under 
the UK Sharesave Plan and the US Stock Purchase Plan, which 
were launched in 2008, took place during the year. The Board is 
considering the establishment of similar schemes for employees 
in Group companies outside of the UK and the USA.
Share capital and shareholder rights
General
The Company’s share capital consists of ordinary shares of 
5p each and preference shares of £1 each, which are fully paid up 
and quoted on the main market of the London Stock Exchange. 
Full details of the movements in the issued share capital of the 
Company during the financial year are provided in Note 27 of the 
financial statements.
All holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and 
vote at any general meeting of the Company and to appoint a 
proxy or proxies to exercise these rights. At a general meeting, 
every shareholder present in person, by proxy or (in the case of a 
corporate member) by corporate representative has one vote on 
a show of hands, and on a poll has one vote for every share held.
To decide who can attend or vote at a general meeting, the notice 
of meeting can give a time, which must not be more than 48 hours 
before the meeting, by which shareholders must have been 
entered on the register in order to have the right to attend or vote 
at the meeting.
If a shareholder has been properly served with notice under 
section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 requiring information about 
interests in shares, and has failed to supply such information within 
fourteen days after the service of the notice, then the shareholder 
is not entitled to attend and vote at a shareholder meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the 
capital of the Company other than certain restrictions which may 
from time to time be imposed by law, for example insider trading 
law. In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority, certain employees are required to seek the approval of 
the Company to deal in its shares.
The cumulative preference shares carry an entitlement to a dividend 
at the rate of 7p per share per annum, payable in equal instalments 
on 30 April and 31 October each year. Holders of the preference 
shares have the right on winding-up to receive, in priority to any 
other classes of shares, the sum of £1 per share together with any 
arrears of dividends.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders 
that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and/or 
voting rights.
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended by 
special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Issue of shares
Under the provisions of section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 
(“the Act”) the Board is prevented from exercising its powers 
under the Articles of Association (“the Articles”) to allot shares 
without an authority in terms of the Act contained either in the 
Articles or in a resolution of the shareholders in general meeting. 
The authority, when given, can last for a maximum period of five 
years, but the Board proposes that renewal should be sought at 
each Annual General Meeting. Such proposal is set out as resolution 
12 in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Section 561 of the Act requires that an allotment of shares for 
cash may not be made unless the shares are first offered to existing 
shareholders on a pre-emptive basis in accordance with the terms 
of the Act. In accordance with general practice, to ensure that small 
issues of shares can be made without the necessity of convening 
a general meeting, the Board proposes that advantage be taken 
of the provisions of section 571 of the Act to not apply the Act’s 
pre-emptive requirements. Accordingly, a special resolution (set 
out as resolution 14 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting) will 
be proposed which, if passed, will have the effect of granting the 
directors the power to allot not more than 5% of the present issued 
ordinary share capital free of the requirements of section 561 of the 
Act. No issue of these shares will be made which would effectively 
alter the control of the Company without prior approval of the 
shareholders in general meeting.
Purchase of own shares
During the year the Company purchased 126,880 (2009: 78,301) 
of its ordinary shares, and 100,011 (2009: 115,170) ordinary shares 
were distributed following vesting of awards under the Chemring 
Group Performance Share Plan. At 31 October 2010, the Company 
held a total of 300,000 ordinary shares in treasury (representing 
0.8% of the ordinary shares in issue on 1 November 2010). 
All purchases of ordinary shares were by means of market 
purchases through the London Stock Exchange. Further details 
can be found in Note 29 of the financial statements.
A special resolution (set out as resolution 15 in the Notice of Annual 
General Meeting) will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting, to renew the Company’s authority to purchase its 
own shares in the market up to a limit of 10% of its issued ordinary 
share capital. The maximum and minimum prices are stated in the 
resolution. The directors believe that it is advantageous for the 
Company to have this flexibility to make market purchases of its 
own shares. The directors of the Company will consider holding 
repurchased shares pursuant to the authority conferred by this 
resolution as treasury shares. This will give the Company the ability 
to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost effectively and will 
provide the Company with additional flexibility in the management 
of its capital base. Any issues of treasury shares for the purposes 
of the Company’s employee share schemes will be made within the 
10% anti-dilution limit set by the Association of British Insurers. 
The directors will only exercise this authority if they are satisfied 
that a purchase would result in an increase in expected earnings 
per share and would be in the interests of shareholders generally. Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
36
Directors’ Report
continued
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the directors are required 
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have 
elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable 
law). Under company law the directors must not approve the 
accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss 
of the Company for that period. In preparing the parent company 
financial statements, the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
• state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; 
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance; and
• make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as 
a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection 
of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken 
as a whole; and
• the Statement by the Chairman, the Review by the Chief Executive, 
the Review by the Finance Director, together with the sections 
of the annual report on each of the business segments, key 
performance indicators and principal risks, and the Corporate 
Responsibility Review, which are cross-referred from the 
Directors’ Report, include a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as 
a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
Provision of information to auditors
Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report 
confirms that:
• so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
• the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken 
as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are 
aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Close company provisions
As far as the directors are aware, the close company provisions of 
the Taxes Acts do not apply to the Group nor has there been any 
change in that respect since 31 October 2010.
Auditors
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors will be proposed 
at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting 
to be held on 24 March 2011, together with explanatory notes, 
appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting sent 
to all shareholders.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 18 January 2011 
Signed on behalf of the Board
S L Ellard
Company Secretary Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
37
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Directors’ Remuneration Report
for the year ended 31 October 2010
This report sets out the information required by the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008. The Report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority, and describes how the Board has applied the principles and complied with the provisions relating to directors’ 
remuneration in the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance. As required by the Regulations, the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
will be submitted to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting on 24 March 2011.
The Act requires the auditors to report to the Company’s members on certain parts of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and to 
state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Accounting Regulations. 
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for the audited and unaudited information.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
Remuneration Committee
During the year under review the Remuneration Committee comprised:
Mr I F R Much (Committee Chairman)
Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss
The Rt Hon Lord Freeman
Mr P C F Hickson (appointed 1 July 2010) 
The Committee’s principal responsibilities are:
• determining, agreeing with the Board and reviewing from time to time the overall policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, 
the executive directors, the Company Secretary and certain other senior executives in the Group, and their individual remuneration 
packages and any changes thereto;
• reviewing the market competitiveness of the remuneration policy and arrangements;
• overseeing salary levels and remuneration packages for the second and third tiers of management;
• approving the terms and conditions of employment, and any changes thereto, of the executive directors; 
• approving any compensation payments for executive directors;
• approving the design of, and determining targets for, any performance-related pay schemes operated by the Group;
• reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and the Company’s shareholders; 
• providing oversight of potential remuneration-related risks arising across the Group; and
• overseeing any major changes in employee benefits structures across the Group. 
With the exception of Mr Hickson whose remuneration is determined by the Committee, none of the Committee members has 
any personal financial interest in the matters reserved for the Committee nor do they have any conflicts of interest arising from 
cross-directorships, and they are not involved in the day to day running of the Group’s business. Therefore, they are regarded by 
the Board as independent. Mr Hickson does not participate in any discussions regarding his own remuneration.
The Committee met six times during the year. The Chief Executive attends meetings by invitation but is not present during any discussions 
relating to his own remuneration. 
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Company’s website or on request from the Company Secretary.
Advisers
During the year the Committee received advice on remuneration and incentive plan related matters from Hewitt New Bridge Street. 
The Company received no other services from Hewitt New Bridge Street or any other part of Hewitt Associates during the year. The Committee 
also received advice from Odgers Berndtson on the remuneration package for the new Chairman during the recruitment process. 
The Committee consults internally with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Remuneration policy for executive directors
The Committee’s policy is to provide executive remuneration packages which are competitive, but not excessive, by reference to market 
rates across comparator companies, reflect the performance of the business against financial objectives, and which take into account the 
individual contribution and performance of each executive director. Remuneration packages comprise the following elements:
(i) base salary and benefits, including pensions;
(ii) annual bonuses linked to the Group’s financial performance and personal objectives; and 
(iii) awards of share-based incentives linked to the long term growth of the Group.
The Committee aims to align the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders, by ensuring that a significant proportion 
of remuneration is performance-related. This is achieved through the performance-related elements of annual bonuses and 
share-based incentives. Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
38
Key aspects of the remuneration arrangements for the executive directors and changes thereto during the year are summarised below. 
Base salary: The Committee had been aware, for some time, that the salaries of the executive directors had not reflected the substantial 
growth in the Group’s revenue, earnings, dividends and market capitalisation in recent years. It had delayed addressing this anomaly 
during the initial stages of the economic downturn. In early 2010, however, following a year of 33% growth in underlying earnings per 
share, it was evident that the Group was in a position to continue its strong growth in revenue and earnings. The Committee therefore 
decided to review the executive directors’ salaries in the context of the outstanding Group performance and the need to maintain market 
competitive salary levels. The Committee also took into account retention issues and the demand for talented executive management with 
a proven track record in the industry. Against this background, base salaries for the executive directors were increased by just over 14% 
with effect from 1 April 2010. 
Pension provision: The Committee agreed that with effect from 6 April 2010, the executive directors would cease to participate in the 
Group’s defined benefit pension scheme, and would instead, for all future service, receive a salary supplement of 20% of base salary. 
Whilst these levels of contributions have enhanced the short term fixed costs to the Company relative to the existing defined benefit 
pension arrangements, there is clearly an advantageous and offsetting transfer of investment risk to the individuals. 
As a result of these two changes, the overall level of fixed pay for the executive directors was aligned more closely with the median of 
the market benchmarks used by the Committee (benchmarks which take into account both market capitalisation and turnover, and which 
have therefore increased less for the Group than would have arisen if based solely on market capitalisation). 
Annual bonus: Executive directors are now required to receive 40% of any bonus earned in the form of deferred shares (an increase 
from 25% in 2009). All other key aspects of the bonus scheme remain unchanged, save that in accordance with emerging good practice, 
clawback provisions have now been introduced into the bonus scheme, which will enable the Company to clawback deferred shares prior 
to vesting in the event of subsequent discovery of material misstatement of the Company’s financial results for the financial year in 
respect of which the deferred shares were awarded.
Share awards: Following approval by the Group’s shareholders of the increase in maximum award levels permissible under the Group’s 
performance share plan at the March 2010 Annual General Meeting, share awards worth (at grant) up to 125% of base salary were granted 
to the executive directors during the year. In accordance with current market norms, and as anticipated at the time of seeking approval 
for the increased award levels, the normal annual award limit will increase to 150% of base salary for the executive directors from 2011 
onwards. The Committee wishes to ensure that the executive directors are appropriately rewarded for exceptional performance and 
accordingly, the higher award levels will be subject to even more challenging earnings per share growth targets than those which were 
applied to the 125% awards made in 2010. Further details are set out below.
Comparator groups
The constituents of the sector-based comparator group utilised by the Committee for remuneration benchmarking purposes during the 
year were as follows:
Charter International plc Melrose PLC Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc
Chloride Group PLC QinetiQ Group PLC Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Halma p.l.c. Rotork PLC VT Group plc 
IMI plc Spectris plc The Weir Group PLC
Meggitt PLC  
The Committee also considered general comparator groups based on FTSE250 companies with a similar market capitalisation and turnover. 
Base salaries and benefits
The executive directors’ base salaries are reviewed annually by the Committee, and adjustments made, if appropriate, taking into account 
individual performance and comparable salary levels in the comparator groups set out above. The Committee refers to published salary 
surveys and data provided by its remuneration advisers, Hewitt New Bridge Street, and also reviews the remuneration information 
presented in the annual reports of companies in the comparator groups. 
The executive directors’ current base salaries are as follows:
• Dr D J Price £480,000 (2009: £420,000)
• Mr P A Rayner £300,000 (2009: £262,500)
The executive directors’ base salaries will next be reviewed on 1 April 2011.
The Committee also considers and approves the base salaries for twenty two other senior executives, and reviews salaries for the next 
two tiers of management at each of the Group’s businesses. In addition, the Committee receives information on general pay levels across 
the Group. The Committee therefore has due regard to salary levels across the Group in applying its remuneration policy.
The main taxable benefits for executive directors are fully-expensed company cars and private medical insurance.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
39
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Annual bonuses
During the year under review, the Company operated an annual performance-related bonus plan for the executive directors, with key 
characteristics as follows:
• a maximum bonus potential for the executive directors of 100% of base salary;
• three quarters of the bonus potential linked to two separate financial performance conditions, namely earnings per share and cash flow 
(with equal weighting). The conditions, which are set by the Committee, take into account a number of factors including budget, market 
expectations, long term growth prospects and the previous year’s out-turn. No bonus is payable for achievement of less than 90% of 
target, with bonuses being earned thereafter on a straight-line basis up to the maximum for 110% or better achievement of target;
• one quarter of the bonus potential may be achieved in connection with the satisfaction of personal objective criteria set at the 
beginning of the financial year. These comprise a mixture of short term and longer term objectives linked to the delivery of the 
Company’s strategic plan. No part of this element of bonus is payable unless threshold performance of both the financial conditions 
described above is achieved. The personal objectives set for the executive directors during the year were linked to the following 
strategic objectives:
 – delivery of improvements in the Group’s health, safety and environmental performance
 – growth of the Group’s order book, and development of key strategic growth opportunities
 – implementation of the expansion plans for the International Division
 – development of key new products and successful competitive strategies
 – completion of new production facilities
 – improved phasing of cashflow generation and management of working capital;
• 40% of any bonus payable is deferred as a conditional award of the Company’s shares, with vesting subject to continued employment 
(save in good leaver scenarios) three years from the award of bonus; and 
• the payment of any bonus remains ultimately at the discretion of the Committee.
Bonuses are non-pensionable.
The table below summarises the bonuses earned by the executive directors, as a percentage of base salary, in respect of the current and 
last years (the figures in brackets are the maximum percentages that could have been achieved:
2010 2009
Bonus percentage received for: D J Price P A Rayner D J Price P A Rayner
Earnings per share performance 17.78  (37.5) 17.78  (37.5) 35.63  (37.5) 35.63  (37.5)
Cash flow performance 24.03 (37.5) 24.03  (37.5) 37.5  (37.5) 37.5  (37.5)
Achievement of personal objectives 20.0  (25.0) 19.5  (25.0) 21.0  (25.0)  21.25  (25.0) 
Total 61.81  (100.0) 61.31  (100.0) 94.13  (100.0) 94.38  (100.0)
The Committee continues to set highly challenging bonus targets for the achievement of maximum bonuses. Despite the outstanding 
levels of EPS growth and returns to shareholders delivered by the Group in recent years, the executive directors have not received 
maximum bonuses in any of the last four years as evidenced by the chart below. 
Year 2010 2009 2008 2007
Growth in underlying EPS
1
 15% 33% 43% 56%
Return to shareholders in year -5% 70% -23% 41%
Executive D J Price P A Rayner D J Price P A Rayner D J Price P A Rayner D J Price P A Rayner
Maximum bonus potential (% of salary) 100% 100% 60% 60%
Bonus paid (% of salary) 61.81% 61.31% 94.13% 94.38% 52.1% 54.3% 46.1% 44.6%
1
Source: Statutory accounts for the years ended 31 October 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007 
The basic structure of the bonus scheme will remain unchanged for the current financial year, namely with a maximum bonus potential of 
100% of base salary, with 40% of any bonus satisfied by the award of deferred shares. However, clawback provisions have now been 
introduced into the bonus scheme, which will enable the Company to clawback the deferred shares prior to vesting in the event of 
subsequent discovery of material misstatement of the Company’s financial results for the financial year in respect of which the deferred 
shares were awarded. Bonuses will continue to be determined by a mixture of earnings per share, cash flow and personal objectives.  Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
40
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued
Long term incentives
Performance share plan
The Company operates the Chemring Group Performance Share Plan for the executive directors and other key members of the senior 
management team who influence the performance and prospects of the Group. The key features of the plan are currently as follows:
• conditional awards can be made of the Company’s shares worth no more than 150% of base salary each year under normal 
circumstances;
• awards will vest three years after grant subject to the extent to which a demanding performance condition has been achieved over a single 
three year performance period (with no ability to re-test the performance condition). The performance condition is based on the growth 
of the Company’s earnings per share in excess of RPI over three consecutive financial years. The Committee considers an earnings per 
share condition to most closely align the interests of participants with those of the Company’s shareholders; 
• the vesting schedules for awards granted to date are as follows:
Total earnings per share growth per annum  
(not compounded) over three financial years
Threshold vesting Full vesting
Awards made prior to 23 January 2007 RPI +5% (33% vests) RPI+15%
Awards made on 24 January 2007 RPI +7.5% (33% vests) RPI+20%
Awards made on or after 23 January 2008 RPI +10% (25% vests) RPI+30%
Awards made on or after 20 January 2010
RPI + 10% (25% vests for awards 
up to 100% of base salary)
RPI + 25% (for any additional 
awards over 100% of base salary) 
RPI + 25% (for awards 
up to 100% of base salary)
RPI + 30% (for awards 
up to 125% of base salary)*
* For awards of up to 125% of base salary, 100% will vest at RPI + 25%, with the additional 25% vesting on a straight-line basis between RPI + 25% and RPI + 30%
  No shares vest for growth below the threshold vesting target. Vesting is calculated on a straight-line basis for growth between the 
threshold and full vesting targets;
• earnings per share is calculated on a fully diluted and normalised basis, as specified by the Committee prior to grant; and
• market purchase shares or new issue shares (including treasury shares) may be used to satisfy awards. To the extent that new issue 
shares or treasury shares are used, these will count towards the usual share usage dilution limits (10% in ten years for all schemes 
and 5% in ten years for discretionary (executive) schemes).
Participation in the plan is extended at the discretion of the Committee to the executive directors and senior management of the Group, 
both in the UK and overseas. The following awards were made under the plan during the year:
Date of award
Total number of  
shares awarded
Number of participants 
receiving awards
20 January 2010 105,693 31
18 March 2010 5,115 2
Total 110,808 33
Details of the awards made to executive directors during the year are set out on pages 38 and 39.
Clawback provisions will apply to all awards under the plan from 2011 onwards, which will enable the Company to clawback awards prior to 
vesting in the event of subsequent discovery of material misstatement of the Company’s financial results, and after having first clawed back 
any unvested deferred shares awarded as part of the annual bonus for the financial year in which the results were misstated.
In considering the performance condition for awards which will be made in 2011, the Committee has acknowledged the continuing strong 
prospects for the Group, whilst recognising that defence budgets around the world may still come under pressure in the next few years. 
As a consequence, it is intended that the target for full vesting of awards worth up to 100% of salary will be maintained at RPI + 25%. 
Higher target growth of up to RPI + 35% will be required for full vesting of any award made above the 100% of base salary limit. This will 
continue the Committee’s policy of setting highly challenging performance targets, which align the interests of shareholders and the 
executive management, whilst rewarding the management in the event of outstanding performance. The following vesting schedule will 
therefore apply for awards made in 2011: 
Total earnings per share growth per annum  
(not compounded) over three financial years Value of award that will vest
Less than RPI + 10% Nil
RPI + 10% 25% of base salary
RPI + 25% 100% of base salary
RPI + 25% up to RPI + 35% 100% to 150% of base salary Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
41
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
These targets remain among the most demanding performance criteria anywhere and reflect the Committee’s ongoing commitment 
to setting appropriately challenging targets for executives to pursue. 
The Committee reviews, from time to time, the basis of the performance condition but continues to believe that the earnings per share 
metric mostly closely aligns the interests of executives and shareholders, and therefore remains an appropriate metric for the Group. 
During the year under review, the Company purchased 126,880 (2009: 78,301) treasury shares at a cost of £3.9 million for use in 
the plan. 100,011 shares were transferred from treasury to participants in the plan during the year on vesting of the awards made 
on 27 September 2006 and 24 January 2007. 
The executive directors are expected to build-up, over a five year period following appointment, and maintain a shareholding in the 
Company equivalent to one year’s base salary. Both of the executive directors currently hold shares significantly in excess of this 
requirement. Other participants in the plan are expected to retain a shareholding equivalent to up to 50% of their base salary following 
vesting of the awards. 
Other schemes
The Company operates all-employee savings-related share schemes in the UK (the Chemring Group 2008 Sharesave Plan) and the USA 
(the Chemring Group 2008 US Stock Purchase Plan). There are no performance criteria for these arrangements, and options are issued 
to all participants in accordance with UK HM Revenue and Customs and US Internal Revenue Service regulations. 
The Company complies with the dilution guidelines contained within “Executive Remuneration – ABI Guidelines on Policies and Practices”. 
At 31 October 2010, awards outstanding and issued under all share schemes during the previous ten years amounted to 2.98% of the 
ordinary share capital of the Company. At 31 October 2010, awards outstanding and issued under executive share schemes during the 
previous ten years amounted to 2.65% of the ordinary share capital of the Company. 
Performance graph
The following graph shows a comparison of the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) over the last five financial years against a 
“broad equity market index”, as required by the Regulations. The FTSE 250 Index has been selected by the Committee for this comparison 
because it provides the most appropriate measure of performance of listed companies of a similar size to the Company.
0
600
500
400
Value (£)
300
200
100
31 Oct 05 31 Oct 06 31 Oct 07 31 Oct 08 31 Oct 09 31 Oct 10
Total shareholder return
Source: Thomson Reuters
Chemring Group PLC
FTSE 250 Index
This graph shows the value, by 31 October 2010, of £100 invested in Chemring Group PLC on 31 October 2005 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index. 
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Pensions
Dr Price was a member of the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme (“the Staff Scheme”) until 6 April 2010. This is an approved final 
salary scheme, which is contracted out of the State Second Pension, and which provides, at retirement, a pension of up to two-thirds 
of salary, subject to Inland Revenue limits. The Staff Scheme also provides life assurance cover, dependants’ pensions and lump sum 
payments on death-in-service. Members of the Staff Scheme are required to make monthly contributions to the scheme at the rate of 8% 
of pensionable salary.
Dr Price’s pension under the Staff Scheme accrued at 1/80th of final pensionable salary for each year of membership, and he also accrued a 
cash lump sum at 3/80ths of final pensionable salary for each year of membership. Dr Price was subject to an earnings cap (equivalent to 
the cap applied by HM Revenue and Customs prior to April 2006) in respect of his membership of the Staff Scheme.
Mr Rayner was also a member of the Staff Scheme until 6 April 2010. Mr Rayner’s benefits under the Staff Scheme accrued in an identical 
manner to that in which Dr Price accrued benefits, as set out above, save that Mr Rayner was not contracted out of the State Second Pension. 
Mr Rayner was also subject to an earnings cap. 
Both Dr Price and Mr Rayner have a normal retirement age of 65. Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
42
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued
The Committee has previously referred to the fact that the pension arrangements for the executive directors under the Staff Scheme 
(1/80ths accrual rate only as far as the notional earnings cap) were well below market norms, and as explained above, in recent years 
this was a contributory factor in the relatively low level of their overall fixed pay. The Committee therefore agreed that with effect from 
6 April 2010, the executive directors would cease to participate in the Staff Scheme, and would instead, for all future service, receive a 
salary supplement of 20% of base salary. 
Service contracts
Dr Price has a rolling service contract dated 4 April 2005. This provides for termination by either party on twelve months’ notice. 
The Company may however terminate without notice, and make a payment in lieu of notice equal to the sum of the salary due for 
the unexpired notice period plus the fair value of any contractual benefits. Any such sum may be paid in instalments, and in these 
circumstances there is a requirement to mitigate loss.
Mr Rayner has a rolling service contract dated 27 August 1999. This provides for termination by either party on twelve months’ notice. 
The Company may however terminate without notice and make a payment in lieu of notice equal to the sum of twelve months’ salary plus 
the value of any contractual benefits. There are no other provisions relating to compensation on early termination.
It is the Committee’s general policy that all new executive directors appointed in the future will have service contracts with the Company 
which are terminable on a maximum of twelve months’ notice. The service contracts will contain provisions permitting the Company to 
make any termination payments by instalments, and will require directors to mitigate their loss in such circumstances.
Policy on outside appointments
With the specific approval of the Board in each case, executive directors may accept external appointments as non-executive directors of 
other companies, provided that they do not detract from their responsibilities to the Group, and may retain any related fees paid to them. 
Neither of the executive directors currently holds any such external appointments.
Non-executive directors
Mr Hickson was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 July 2010, and as Chairman on 1 October 2010. This followed an extensive 
and full external search by the Nomination Committee, chaired by the Senior Independent Director. Mr Hickson’s letter of appointment 
provides for a three year appointment at a fixed fee of £170,000 per annum. The appointment may be terminated on six months’ notice 
by either party. It is anticipated that Mr Hickson will devote four to five days each month to his role, subject to the overriding requirement 
that he allocates sufficient time to the role as is reasonably necessary for the proper performance of his duties. Ahead of Mr Hickson’s 
appointment as Chairman, both the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee reviewed fee levels for Chairmen in 
comparable companies and consulted with advisers on the appropriate level of fees for the role. 
Mr Scobie had a service contract with the Company which expired at the conclusion of the Company’s Annual General Meeting in March 2010. 
Whilst the Company undertook a search for his successor, his contract was extended on a rolling basis. Mr Scobie’s remuneration under 
the contract, part of which was paid to his company for consultancy services, was £145,000 per annum. Following his retirement as 
Chairman, the Board approved a payment of £50,000 to Mr Scobie, partly to reflect the fact that the Company did not make a payment in lieu 
of notice under Mr Scobie’s contract but principally in recognition of his outstanding contribution to the Group during his thirteen year tenure.
The other non-executive directors are all appointed for three year terms under letters of appointment covering, amongst other items, 
their terms of appointment and expected time commitment. The appointments may be terminated earlier by and at the discretion 
of either party upon three months’ written notice. The Rt Hon Lord Freeman is currently serving his second three year term as a 
non-executive director, which will expire on 25 May 2012. Mr Evans’ current three year appointment as a non-executive director will 
terminate on 30 March 2012. Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss have both now served two three year terms, which expired on 
30 November 2010 and 30 April 2010 respectively. Their appointments were extended on a rolling basis pending the appointment of 
the new Chairman, to ensure a smooth transition. They will be reviewed during the forthcoming year.
The basic fee payable to each of the four non-executive directors is £44,000 per annum. The Rt Hon Lord Freeman and Mr Much each 
receive an additional fee of £8,000 per annum, in respect of their Chairmanship of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee 
respectively. Mr Much also serves as the Senior Independent Director but he receives no additional fee for this role.
Fees for the non-executive directors are determined annually by the Board, having regard to the practice of other companies and the 
particular demands of the Group.
The Company provides private medical insurance for Mr Evans, Mr Hickson and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss, and their respective spouses.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the Company’s pension, bonus or share-based incentive schemes. However, Mr Evans does 
receive a pension from the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme, which he accrued during his former employment with the Company.  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
43
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
AUDITED INFORMATION
Directors’ emoluments
The emoluments of all the directors who served during the year are shown below:
Salaries and fees
Bonuses (cash and 
deferred shares)
Cash pension 
supplement Taxable benefits Total
2010 
£000
2009 
£000
2010 
£000
2009 
£000
2010 
£000
2009 
£000
2010 
£000
2009 
£000
2010 
£000
2009 
£000
Executives
D J Price 455 412 297 396 56 - 35 36 843 844
P A Rayner 284 257 186 248 35 - 21 20 526 525
Non-executives
D R Evans 43 41 - - - - 1 1 44 42
R N Freeman 51 48 - - - - - - 51 48
P C F Hickson (appointed 1 July 2010) 57 - - - - - - - 57 -
I F R Much 51 48 - - - - - - 51 48
P C Norriss 43 41 - - - - 2 1 45 42
K C Scobie (resigned 30 Sept 2010) 128 129 50 - - - 3 3 181 132
Total remuneration 1,112 976 533 644 91 - 62 61 1,798 1,681
Amounts shown above in the salaries and fees column relate to base salary in the case of executive directors and fees in the case 
of non-executive directors.
Mr Scobie’s remuneration includes payments to his company, K C Scobie Limited, in respect of his consultancy services. 
Directors’ share interests
The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company at 1 November 2009 and 31 October 2010 are shown below. 
All are beneficial holdings.
2010 
Number
2009 
Number
D R Evans 15,000 15,000
R N Freeman 350 350
P C F Hickson 4,000 -
I F R Much 5,300 3,000
P C Norriss 4,400 5,400
D J Price 123,763 110,867
P A Rayner 40,000 35,000
The directors’ share interests at 31 October 2010 include shares held by the directors’ adult children, as required by the Companies Act 2006.
No movements have taken place between 31 October 2010 and 17 January 2011. Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
44
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued
Performance share plan
Details of awards made to the executive directors under the Chemring Group Performance Share Plan during the year are shown below.
Number of shares under award
At 1 Nov 2009
Awarded during 
the year
Lapsed during  
the year
Vested during  
the year At 31 Oct 2010 Date of vesting
Share price on  
date of award (p)
D J Price 17,543 - - 17,543* - 24 Jan 2010 1,730
18,004 - - - 18,004 23 Jan 2011 1,895
20,000 - - - 20,000 21 Jan 2012 2,031
- 14,198 - - 14,198 20 Jan 2013 3,075
- 3,148 - - 3,148 18 Mar 2013 3,339
55,547 17,346 - 17,543 55,350
P A Rayner 11,111 - - 11,111* - 24 Jan 2010 1,730
11,316 - - - 11,316 23 Jan 2011 1,895
12,500 - - - 12,500 21 Jan 2012 2,031
- 8,874 - - 8,874 20 Jan 2013 3,075
- 1,967 - - 1,967 18 Mar 2013 3,339
34,927 10,841 - 11,111 34,657
* Awards granted on 24 January 2007 vested in full during the year, as the maximum earnings per share growth target was achieved. 
The share price on the date of vesting was 3,060p. The value of the vested award, and therefore the gain on vesting, to Dr D J Price was 
£233,322 and to Mr P A Rayner was £147,776.
Awards worth 100% of base salary were granted on 20 January 2010; 25% of the shares under these awards will vest if earnings per share 
growth is RPI+10% p.a. over the three year performance period, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for growth of at least RPI+25% p.a. 
A subsequent award worth an additional 25% of base salary was granted to the executive directors on 18 March 2010; these awards will vest 
on a straight-line basis if earnings per share growth over the three year performance period is between RPI+25% p.a and RPI+30% p.a. 
Share options
The holdings by the executive directors of share options granted under the Chemring Group 2008 UK Sharesave Plan at 1 November 2009 
and 31 October 2010 are shown below.
Number of share options
At 1 Nov 2009
Granted  
during  
the year
Lapsed  
during  
the year
Exercised 
during 
the year At 31 Oct 2010
Exercise 
price(p)
Market price 
at date of 
exercise (p)
Date from 
which 
exercisable Expiry date
D J Price 503 - - - 503 1,868 - 1 Oct 2011 1 Apr 2012
P A Rayner 871 - - - 871 1,868 - 1 Oct 2013 1 Apr 2014
The market price of the ordinary shares at 31 October 2010 was 2,998p. During the year, the ordinary shares traded within the range 
2,598p to 3,663p.
Deferred shares
Details of awards of deferred shares made to the executive directors under the annual performance-related bonus plan are set out below 
(the values of these shares at award are included in the bonus figures in the directors’ emoluments table):
Number of deferred shares under award
At 1 Nov 2009
Awarded during 
the year
Lapsed during  
the year
Vested during  
the year At 31 Oct 2010 Date of vesting
Share price on  
date of award (p)
D J Price 2,566 - - 2,566 - 16 Jan 2010 1,710
2,074 - - - 2,074 10 Jan 2011 1,944
2,603 - - - 2,603 13 Jan 2012 2,000
- 3,341 - - 3,341 12 Jan 2013 2,958
7,243 3,341 - 2,566 8,018
P A Rayner 1,625 - - 1,625 - 16 Jan 2010 1,710
1,261 - - - 1,261 10 Jan 2011 1,944
1,697 - - - 1,697 13 Jan 2012 2,000
- 2,094 - - 2,094 12 Jan 2013 2,958
4,583 2,094 - 1,625 5,052 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
45
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Pensions
The following table sets out the pension benefits accrued by the executive directors during the year.
Total benefit 
accrued at 
31 Oct 2009
Transfer 
value of 
accrued 
benefit at 
31 Oct 2009
Increase in accrued 
benefit during year 
before inflation 
Total benefit 
accrued at 
31 Oct 2010
Transfer 
value of 
accrued 
benefit at 
31 Oct 2010 
Increase in accrued 
benefit during year 
after inflation 
Transfer value 
of increase in 
accrued benefit 
after inflation 
(less members’ 
contributions)
Increase in 
transfer value 
during year 
(less members’ 
contributions)
Pension 
(£p.a.)
Cash  
(£) (£)
Pension 
(£p.a.)
Cash  
(£)
Pension 
(£p.a.)
Cash  
(£) (£)
Pension 
(£p.a.)
Cash  
(£) (£) (£)
D J Price 6,953 20,858 106,648 772 2,317 7,725 23,175 110,850 472 1,416 1,790 82
P A Rayner 23,819 71,456 393,325 643 1,931 24,462 73,387 368,480 (386) (1,158) (13,513) (28,965)
i) Transfer values represent liabilities of the applicable scheme, and do not represent sums paid to the individuals.
ii) Transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with actuarial professional guidance. 
iii) Both directors left the pension scheme with an entitlement to deferred benefits during the year.
Approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Report
The Directors’ Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on 18 January 2011.
Signed on behalf of the Board
I F R Much
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
46
This statement sets out how the Company has applied the main 
and supporting principles of good governance set out in Section 1 
of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in 2008 
by the Financial Reporting Council (“the Combined Code”). 
Throughout the year ended 31 October 2010, the Company has 
been in full compliance with the code provisions set out in Section 1 
of the 2008 Combined Code.
The Board
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, 
the Finance Director and four non-executive directors. The Board 
considers that the Chairman and three of the current non-executive 
directors, The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much and Air Marshal 
Sir Peter Norriss, are independent in character and judgment, and 
meet the criteria for independence set out in the Combined Code. 
The directors’ biographical details are set out on pages 32 and 33. 
The Board, which meets at least ten times a year, approves the 
Group’s long term goals and strategies and provides overall financial 
and organisational control. The Board has a formal schedule of 
matters specifically reserved to it for consideration and approval, 
including: approval of the Group’s five year plan; approval of the 
annual operating budgets; acquisitions, disposals and major capital 
expenditure; financing and treasury; pensions; ethical policies; health 
and safety strategy; reviewing the Group’s systems of financial 
control and risk management; approving appointments to the Board 
and approving policies relating to directors’ remuneration; and 
maintaining an effective dialogue with shareholders. All directors 
take decisions objectively in the interests of the Company.
The Board delegates certain responsibilities to the Executive 
Committee, including: implementation of the Group’s strategies 
and policies as determined by the Board; monitoring of operational 
and financial results against budget; allocation of resources across 
the Group within the overall plan approved by the Board; capital 
expenditure within limits imposed by the Board; and developing 
and implementing risk management systems. Further details of 
the Executive Committee are set out in the section of this report 
covering Board Committees.
Procedures are in place covering the content, presentation and 
timely delivery of papers to the Board for each Board meeting, to 
ensure that directors have sufficient information to make expedient 
and considered decisions in fulfilment of their fiduciary duties. 
Where directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the 
running of the Company or a proposed action, such concerns are 
recorded in the Board minutes.
Each director has full access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary who, under the direction of the Chairman, 
is responsible for maintaining good information flows within the 
Board and its committees, assisting with induction and keeping the 
directors informed about changes to their duties and responsibilities, 
and advising the Board on all governance matters. The appointment 
and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as 
a whole.
All directors are entitled to take independent professional advice in 
furtherance of their duties at the Company’s expense, if the need 
should arise.
An internal induction programme on the Group’s operations and 
its strategic and business plans is provided for newly-appointed 
directors. The Company Secretary also provides detailed information 
on directors’ legal duties and responsibilities on appointment, and 
updates the Board on a regular basis with regards to regulatory 
changes affecting the directors and the Group’s operations generally. 
Directors are continually updated on the Group’s businesses and 
the matters affecting the market in which they operate. The Company 
meets the cost of appropriate external training for directors, the 
requirement for which is kept under review by the Chairman. 
The Company separates the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive 
in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code. 
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the 
Chief Executive, and their respective job descriptions, are set out in 
writing and agreed by the Board.
In addition to chairing the Board, the Chairman is responsible for 
ensuring that the Board is kept properly informed and is consulted on all 
decisions reserved to it; promoting constructive relations between the 
executive and non-executive directors; ensuring that the development 
needs of directors are identified and the performance of the Board 
evaluated on a regular basis; ensuring effective communication 
with shareholders and acting as a conduit to ensure that the views 
of shareholders are communicated to the Board. The Chairman’s 
other business commitments, which are detailed on page 32, were 
fully disclosed to the Board prior to his appointment and the Board is 
comfortable that he has sufficient time available to commit to his role.
The non-executive directors perform an essential role in safeguarding 
shareholders’ interests. They actively participate in the development 
of strategic objectives and monitor the performance of executive 
management in achieving these objectives. The non-executive directors 
also review financial performance, and consider the integrity of the 
financial information produced by the Group and whether the financial 
controls and risk management systems are robust and defensible. 
They meet periodically with the management of the Group’s operating 
companies. In addition to participating in Board meetings, the three 
independent non-executive directors are the members of the standing 
committees set up to deal with audit and the remuneration of executive 
directors and senior management. The Board considers that the 
current balance of executive and non-executive influence which exists is 
appropriate for the Company, taking into account its size and status.
Mr Much served as the Senior Independent Director throughout 
the year.
During the year, both the previous and the current Chairman 
met regularly with the non-executive directors without the 
executives present.
The non-executive directors have letters of appointment covering, 
amongst other items, their terms of appointment and expected time 
commitment. These letters of appointment provide for a three year 
appointment, unless terminated earlier by and at the discretion 
of either party upon three months’ written notice. Mr Much and 
Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss have both now served two three year 
terms, and their letters of appointment expired on 30 November 2010 
and 30 April 2010 respectively. Their appointments were extended on a 
rolling basis pending the appointment of the new Chairman, to ensure 
a smooth transition. They will be reviewed during the forthcoming year. 
The non-executive directors’ letters of appointment are available for 
inspection on request to the Company Secretary.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, all 
directors are required to submit themselves for re-election every 
three years. However, in order to ensure compliance with the revised 
UK Corporate Governance Code during the financial year ending 
31 October 2011, all directors will voluntarily submit themselves for 
re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The papers accompanying the Notice of Annual General Meeting 
include a statement from the Chairman confirming that the 
performance of each non-executive director seeking re-election at 
the meeting continues to be effective and that each such director 
continues to demonstrate commitment to their role.
Statement on Corporate Governance Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
47
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Following his appointment on 1 October 2010, the Chairman 
undertook an evaluation of the current performance of the 
Board and its committees, and an assessment of the future 
requirements. Feedback was sought from all Board members on 
the perceived strengths and weaknesses of the current Board, and 
recommendations were made for future improvements. In addition, 
the Chairman and the non-executive directors considered the 
individual performance of the Chief Executive and the Finance 
Director as part of the annual remuneration review. Similarly, the 
Chairman and the Chief Executive reviewed the performance of the 
non-executive directors. No significant issues were identified.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance 
in respect of legal action against its directors. 
Meetings attendance
The following table shows the attendance of directors, who served 
during the year, at meetings of the Board, the Audit Committee, the 
Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee:
Board 
(12 meetings)
Audit 
Committee 
(3 meetings)
Nomination 
Committee 
(6 meetings)
Remuneration 
Committee 
(6 meetings)
K C Scobie 10(11) - 4(5) -
P C F Hickson 3(3) - - -
D R Evans 11(12) - - -
The Rt Hon 
Lord Freeman 12(12) 3(3) - 6(6)
I F R Much 12(12) 3(3) 6(6) 6(6)
Air Marshal Sir 
Peter Norriss 11(12) 3(3) 6(6) 5(6)
D J Price 12(12) - 4(5) -
P A Rayner 12(12) - - -
The maximum number of meetings which each director could have attended is shown 
in brackets. 
Board committees
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the Nomination 
Committee and the Remuneration Committee are posted on 
the Company’s website and are available on request from the 
Company Secretary.
Audit Committee
The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss 
all served as members of the Audit Committee during the year. 
The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, who is a chartered accountant, is Chairman 
of the Committee; his full biographical details are set out on page 33. 
The Committee met three times during the year and operates within 
formal written terms of reference. As referred to above, the terms 
of reference are available on the Company’s website. Meetings 
of the Committee are attended, at the invitation of the Chairman 
of the Committee, by the external auditors, the Chairman of the 
Board, the Finance Director and representatives from the Group 
finance and internal audit function. The Committee meets with the 
auditors on a regular basis without the executive directors present. 
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and 
minutes of meetings are circulated to all Board members.
The Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires 
from any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties, 
and to obtain any outside legal or other professional advice it 
requires at the Company’s expense.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the Group’s financial 
statements and the effectiveness of the external audit process. 
It is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship 
between the Group and the external auditors is maintained, 
including reviewing non-audit services and fees. The Committee 
keeps under review the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
controls and financial risk management systems, and on an annual 
basis, considers the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit 
function. The Committee reviews annually its terms of reference 
and its effectiveness, and recommends to the Board any changes 
required as the result of such review.
During the year, the Committee, operating under its terms of 
reference, discharged its responsibilities by:
• reviewing the Group’s draft 2009 financial statements and 2010 
interim results statement prior to Board approval, and reviewing 
the external auditors’ detailed reports thereon;
• reviewing the appropriateness of the Group’s accounting policies, 
and reviewing various accounting matters raised by management 
and the external auditors in the context of financial disclosures;
• considering and approving changes to the Group’s accounting 
policy manual;
• reviewing the potential impact on the Group’s financial 
statements of certain matters such as impairments of fixed asset 
values and the adoption of new accounting standards;
• reviewing the external auditors’ plan for the 2010 interim review 
and the 2010 year end audit, including reviewing the key risks on the 
accounts, confirmation of auditor independence and the proposed 
audit fee, and approving the terms of engagement for the audit; 
• receiving reports from the Risk Committee and reviewing the 
Group’s risk register;
• reviewing the Group’s commission policy and arrangements 
with agents;
• reviewing changes to the corporate structure of the Group and 
the associated tax implications;
• monitoring the Group’s key financial ratios and credit ratings; 
• overseeing the application of the Group’s whistleblowing policy 
and procedures for employees; 
• reviewing the work undertaken by the Group’s internal audit 
function, assessing the adequacy of the internal audit resource 
and recommending changes for increasing the scope of the 
internal audit activities; and
• implementing the Group’s policy on the provision of non-audit 
services by the auditors, taking into account relevant guidance 
and best practice.
The Group’s internal audit programme incorporates an annual 
rolling review of all businesses, and focuses on both financial and 
non-financial controls and procedures. Newly acquired businesses 
are subjected to a detailed review by the internal audit function 
immediately post-completion. The Committee approves the annual 
internal audit plan and receives regular reports from the internal 
auditors. The Group’s internal audit function in the USA was 
strengthened during the year.
The Committee has considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of 
the current auditors from the market and noted that there are no 
contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditors. Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
48
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, 
the Committee reviewed:
• the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors’ 
independence and objectivity;
• the external auditors’ fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and any 
variations from the plan;
• the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their 
handling of the key accounting and audit judgements; and
• the content of the external auditors’ reporting and internal control.
Deloitte LLP have been the Company’s auditors for many years. 
In the opinion of the Committee, the relationship with the auditors 
currently works well, and having reviewed their independence and 
effectiveness, the Committee has not considered it necessary to date 
to require Deloitte LLP to re-tender for the audit work. Accordingly, 
the Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP 
be proposed for re-appointment as auditors at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting.
The Committee keeps under review the level of any non-audit 
services which are provided by the external auditors, to ensure 
that this does not impair their independence and objectivity. 
The Committee has adopted a policy which states that the external 
auditors should not be appointed to provide services in relation 
to corporate finance matters, unless the Committee agrees that 
their appointment would be in the best interests of the Company’s 
shareholders in particular circumstances and would not create any 
direct conflict with their role as external auditors. The Committee, 
in conjunction with the Finance Director, ensures that the Group 
maintains a sufficient choice of appropriately qualified audit firms. 
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year 
for audit and other services are set out in the notes to the financial 
statements on page 64.
Nomination Committee
Mr Scobie, Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss all served on the 
Nomination Committee during the year. On his retirement, Mr Scobie 
was succeeded as Chairman of the Committee by Mr Hickson. In 
accordance with the Committee’s terms of reference, Mr Scobie was 
not permitted to chair meetings when the Committee was dealing 
with the appointment of his successor, and the same restriction will 
apply to Mr Hickson. As referred to above, the Committee’s terms of 
reference are available on the Company’s website.
With regards to the recruitment and appointment of new directors 
to the Board, the Committee considers the specific knowledge and 
expertise which would be of benefit to the Group’s current operations 
and future strategy, and provides a brief to external search agents 
based upon its conclusions. The search agents put forward a short 
list of candidates for the Committee to interview before making its 
recommendations to the Board. The Board interviews preferred 
candidates prior to making any formal offers of appointment. 
During the year, an external search consultancy was retained to 
recruit a successor for Mr Scobie on his retirement. A detailed 
brief for the new appointment, including an assessment of the 
time commitment expected, was prepared in consultation with 
all of the Board members. Dr Price was temporarily appointed to 
the Nomination Committee, which was chaired by Mr Much for 
this purpose, to assist specifically with the recruitment of the new 
Chairman. After an extensive search, Mr Hickson was successfully 
appointed as a non-executive director on 1 July 2010 and as 
Chairman on 1 October 2010.
Remuneration Committee
The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much, and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss 
all served on the Remuneration Committee throughout the year. 
Mr Hickson was appointed as a member of the Committee on 
1 October 2010. Mr Much is Chairman of the Committee. The Committee 
met six times during the year. Further details on the Committee and the 
Company’s policy on directors’ remuneration and long term incentive 
schemes are included within the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Executive Committee
The Chief Executive, Dr Price, chairs the Executive Committee, which 
meets monthly. The other members are the Finance Director, the 
Company Secretary, the Business Development Director, the Group 
Director of Safety, and the three Divisional Managing Directors. 
The Executive Committee is responsible for the executive day-to-day 
running of the Group, submission to the Board of strategic plans and 
budgets for the Group’s operations, and monitoring the day-to-day 
performance of the Group as a whole.
Relations with shareholders
The Company maintains an active dialogue with institutional 
shareholders through regular briefing meetings and formal 
presentations following the release of interim and annual results. 
Meetings are usually attended by the Chairman, the Chief Executive and 
the Finance Director. However, the non-executive directors are offered 
the opportunity to meet with major shareholders and attend meetings 
if so requested by major shareholders. No such requests were received 
during the year. Communication with private investors is achieved largely 
through the medium of the interim report and the financial statements.
The Company’s website (www.chemring.co.uk) provides financial 
and business information on the Group.
The directors are provided with reports and other written briefings 
from the Company’s principal shareholders and analysts, and are 
regularly informed by the Company Secretary about changes to 
significant shareholdings.
It is the Company’s policy that all directors should attend and make 
themselves available to take questions from shareholders or address 
any concerns at the Annual General Meeting. At other times of the 
year, the directors can be contacted via the Company’s head office.
All substantial issues, including the adoption of the annual report 
and financial statements, are proposed on separate resolutions at 
the Annual General Meeting. The number of proxy votes received for 
and against each resolution, together with the number of abstentions, 
are indicated after votes have been dealt with on a show of hands, 
and are posted on the Company’s website following the meeting. 
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders 
at least twenty working days before the meeting.
Financial reporting
The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the 
financial statements and accounting records maintained by the 
Company is set out on page 36.
Internal control and risk management
The Board has continued to review the effectiveness of the Group’s 
systems of internal control, including financial, operational and 
compliance controls, and risk management systems.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Group’s systems 
of internal control and attaches considerable importance to these 
systems, which are designed to meet the Group’s particular needs 
and identify those risks to which it is exposed. However, the systems 
can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement, loss or mismanagement of the Group’s assets.
Statement on Corporate Governance
continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
49
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
In carrying out its review of the effectiveness of the Group’s 
systems of internal control in compliance with provision C2.1 of 
the Combined Code, the Board has taken into consideration the 
following key features of the Group’s risk management systems and 
control procedures which operated during the year:
• The Board assesses the key risks associated with achievement 
of the Group’s business objectives as part of the annual strategic 
planning process. Out of this process, each business establishes 
a five year plan and annual budget, which are subject to approval 
by the Board. The performance of each business against 
budget and prior years is reviewed on a monthly basis at both 
operational level and by the Board. Achievement of strategic 
business objectives and the associated risks are monitored by 
the Board on an ongoing basis.
• All businesses hold monthly operating meetings, which are attended 
by the respective Divisional Managing Directors. In addition, 
the Chief Executive and the Finance Director attend operational 
and strategic review meetings with each of the businesses on a 
quarterly basis. In the case of the US businesses, formal Board 
meetings are held quarterly, and these are attended by main 
Board directors and external non-executive directors appointed 
in the US. The US non-executive directors are available to provide 
guidance and monitor governance in the US businesses throughout 
the year. External non-executive directors are also appointed to the 
Boards of the Group’s Italian and Australian subsidiaries.
• Each business is required to comply with the Group’s 
accounting policy manual, which sets out formal procedures for 
incurring certain types of expenditure and making contractual 
commitments. Compliance with the accounting policy manual 
is audited by the internal auditors, who report regularly to the 
Audit Committee on their findings.
• The Board retains primary responsibility for acquisitions and 
disposals, and financing arrangements for the Group. Treasury 
management, IT strategy, insurance and significant legal matters 
are dealt with centrally from the Group head office, and the Board 
receives regular reports on each of these items. Reviews of the 
Group’s pensions, insurance and risk management arrangements 
are carried out by external advisors on a regular basis.
• The Group Director of Safety, supported by divisional Health and 
Safety Management Committees, co-ordinates and controls the 
activities of each business in relation to health and safety and 
environmental matters, which are a key focus for the Board in 
view of the nature of the Group’s operations. The Chief Executive 
is the Board member nominated with specific responsibility for 
health and safety. The Chief Executive meets formally with health 
and safety professionals from each business on an annual basis.
• The Group has committed to adherence with the European 
Aerospace and Defence Association’s Common Industry 
Standards on Anti-Corruption, and has updated its business 
policies and procedures to ensure compliance. 
The Group’s Risk Management Committee meets on a 
quarterly basis. The Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the 
Company Secretary, the Business Development Director, the Group 
Director of Safety, and the three Divisional Managing Directors serve 
on the Committee. The Committee reviews the key risks associated 
with the achievement of the annual budget and the five year plan 
for each business, and the risk control procedures implemented. 
It also considers the top five health and safety risks which have 
been identified at each site and agrees the action plan to address 
these. The Risk Management Committee reports biannually to the 
Audit Committee and the Board on the top ten risks from a Group 
perspective, and monitors the actions being taken to mitigate these.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the 
Group’s systems of internal control and risk management which 
were in place during the financial year ended 31 October 2010, and 
it confirms that systems of internal control and risk management 
compliant with the Combined Code and the Turnbull Guidance were 
in place throughout the year and have remained in place up to the 
date of approval of these financial statements. Notwithstanding 
this, the Board will continue to take steps to embed internal control 
and risk management further into the operations of the Group and 
to deal with any areas of improvement which come to the attention 
of management and the Board.
Procedures to deal with directors’ 
conflicts of interest
All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 
(the “2006 Act”) to avoid a situation in which he or she has or 
can have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly 
may conflict with the interests of the Company. The Company’s 
Articles of Association include provisions for dealing with directors’ 
conflicts of interest in accordance with the 2006 Act. The Company 
has procedures in place to deal with situations where directors may 
have any such conflicts, which require the Board to:
• consider each conflict situation separately on its particular facts;
• consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest of their 
duties under the 2006 Act;
• keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations granted by 
directors and the scope of any approvals given; and
• regularly review conflict authorisation.
Going concern
The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on going 
concern. They have made appropriate enquiries and taken into 
account factors, which are further detailed in the Review by the 
Finance Director, such as:
• the strong order book of £803.3 million as at the year end;
• the Group’s underlying operating cash flow of £126.1 million 
during the year;
• the strong balance sheet at the year end, with net assets of 
£323.2 million; and
• the Group’s available banking facilities, which amount to 
£230 million with maturities through to April 2015 (see 
Note 36 of the financial statements).
The Group’s banking covenants were all met with a comfortable 
margin during the year, and the expectation is that this will continue. 
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Company is 
well-placed to manage its risks. Details of how the Group manages its 
liquidity risk can be found in Note 24 of the financial statements.
The long term nature of the Group’s business, taken together 
with the Group’s forward order book, provide a satisfactory level of 
confidence to the Board in respect of trading in the year ahead.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 18 January 2011.
Signed on behalf of the Board
S L Ellard
Company Secretary Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
50
Independent Auditors’ Report to the 
Members of Chemring Group PLC
We have audited the Group financial statements of 
Chemring Group PLC for the year ended 31 October 2010 which 
comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Notes to the Consolidated 
Cash Flow Statement, and the related Notes 1 to 36. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation 
is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions 
we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors 
and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, 
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of 
the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs 
as at 31 October 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for 
the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report 
by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the directors’ statement contained within the Statement 
on Corporate Governance in relation to going concern; and
• the part of the Statement on Corporate Governance relating 
to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 
June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Other matters
We have reported separately on the parent company financial 
statements of Chemring Group PLC for the year ended 
31 October 2010 and on the information in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Mark Mullins (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
Reading, United Kingdom
18 January 2011 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
51
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 October 2010
Note
2010
£m
2009
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue – continuing 570.6 503.9
  – acquired 26.5 -
Total revenue 4,5 597.1 503.9
Operating profit – continuing 105.9 107.9
  – acquired 2.0 -
Total operating profit 5,6 107.9 107.9
Operating profit is analysed as:
Underlying operating profit* 135.6 114.7
Acquisition related costs 32 (6.7) -
Intangible amortisation arising from business combinations 14 (17.0) (13.8)
(Loss)/gain on fair value movements on derivatives 24 (4.0) 7.0
107.9 107.9
Share of post-tax results of associate 17 0.1 0.1
Finance income 8 0.5 0.7
Finance expense 9 (19.4) (12.9)
Profit before tax for the year 89.1 95.8
Profit before tax for the year is analysed as:
Underlying profit before tax* 116.8 102.6
Acquisition related costs 32 (6.7) -
Intangible amortisation arising from business combinations 14 (17.0) (13.8)
(Loss)/gain on fair value movements on derivatives 24 (4.0) 7.0
89.1 95.8
Tax 10 (22.4) (25.7)
Profit after tax for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 28 66.7 70.1
Earnings per ordinary share 12
Underlying* 246p 213p
Basic 189p 199p
Diluted 187p 197p
* Before  acquisition related costs, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and (loss)/gain on fair value movements on derivatives Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
52
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income
for the year ended 31 October 2010
Note
2010
£m
2009
£m
Profit after tax for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 66.7 70.1
Other comprehensive income 
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges 1.0 (1.0)
Movement on deferred tax relating to cash flow hedges (0.3) 0.2
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 0.4 (3.1)
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension schemes 33 4.0 (14.1)
Movement on deferred tax relating to pension schemes (1.4) 4.0
Current tax on items taken directly to equity 0.2 (1.2)
Deferred tax on items taken directly to equity (0.5) 0.3
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to  
equity holders of the parent 70.1 55.2
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 October 2010
Note
2010
£m
2009
£m
Total comprehensive income for the year (see above) 70.1 55.2
Dividends paid 11 (18.7) (13.8)
51.4 41.4
Ordinary shares issued - -
Share premium arising 0.1 0.5
Credit to equity settled share-based payments 0.1 0.9
Deferred tax on share-based payment transactions - (0.3)
Transactions in own shares 29 (2.0) 0.5
Net addition to shareholders’ funds 49.6 43.0
Opening shareholders’ funds 273.6 230.6
Closing shareholders’ funds 323.2 273.6 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
53
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at 31 October 2010
Note

£m
2010
£m

£m
2009
£m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 13 236.4 149.5
Other intangible assets 14 195.4 90.4
Property, plant and equipment 15 188.7 135.0
Interest in associate 17 1.1 1.1
Deferred tax 26 16.6 17.7
638.2 393.7
Current assets
Inventories 18 142.3 96.9
Trade and other receivables 19 166.3 98.8
Cash and cash equivalents 20,24 58.4 61.3
Derivative financial instruments 24 1.9 0.4
368.9 257.4
Total assets 1,007.1 651.1
Current liabilities
Borrowings 21 (65.6) (34.3)
Obligations under finance leases 22 (2.6) (0.5)
Trade and other payables 23 (219.7) (115.1)
Short term provisions 25 (1.9) (1.2)
Current tax liabilities (8.0) (14.6)
Derivative financial instruments 24 (1.6) (1.1)
(299.4) (166.8)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 21 (294.6) (148.3)
Obligations under finance leases 22 (3.0) (0.9)
Trade and other payables 23 (1.0) (1.8)
Long term provisions 25 (3.1) (5.2)
Deferred tax 26 (52.4) (22.6)
Preference shares 27 (0.1) (0.1)
Retirement benefit obligations 33 (23.0) (28.1)
Derivative financial instruments 24 (7.3) (3.7)
(384.5) (210.7)
Total liabilities (683.9) (377.5)
Net assets 323.2 273.6
Equity
Share capital 27 1.8 1.8
Share premium account 28 120.4 120.3
Special capital reserve 28 12.9 12.9
Hedging reserve 28 (2.7) (3.4)
Revaluation reserve 28 1.4 1.4
Retained earnings 28 196.6 145.8
330.4 278.8
Own shares 29 (7.2) (5.2)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 323.2 273.6
Total equity 323.2 273.6
These financial statements of Chemring Group PLC (registered number 86662) were approved and authorised for issue by the 
Board of Directors on 18 January 2011.
Signed on behalf of the Board
D J Price   P A Rayner Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
54
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31 October 2010
Note
2010
£m
2009
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from underlying operations A 126.1 106.7
Acquisition related costs 32 (6.7) -
Cash generated from operations 119.4 106.7
Tax paid (30.0) (18.7)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 89.4 88.0
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends received from associate 0.1 -
Purchases of intangible assets 14 (7.8) (4.8)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 15 (40.9) (33.4)
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings (net of cash acquired) 32 (176.8) (27.6)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (225.4) (65.8)
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid 11 (18.7) (13.8)
Interest paid (14.0) (10.5)
Proceeds on issue of shares 0.1 0.5
New borrowings 208.8 14.9
Repayments of borrowings (41.7) (20.7)
Proceeds from sale and finance leaseback 4.5 -
Repayment of finance leases (0.7) (1.6)
Purchase of own shares 29 (3.9) (1.5)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities 134.4 (32.7)
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents during the year (1.6) (10.5)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of the year 61.3 69.6
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (1.3) 2.2
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 20,24 58.4 61.3 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
55
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Notes to the Consolidated  
Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31 October 2010
A. Cash generated from operations
2010
£m
2009
£m
Operating profit from continuing operations 105.9 107.9
Operating profit from acquired operations 2.0 -
107.9 107.9
Adjustment for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11.6 13.3
Impairment charge - 1.1
Amortisation of other intangibles 2.4 1.5
Loss on disposal of intangible assets 0.2 -
Amortisation of intangible assets arising from business combinations 17.0 13.8
Loss/(gain) on fair value movements on derivatives 4.0 (7.0)
Share-based payment expense 2.3 2.1
Difference between pension contributions paid and amount recognised in Income Statement 0.7 0.1
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (1.4) 0.5
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 144.7 133.3
Increase in inventories (19.2) (8.4)
Increase in trade and other receivables (44.0) (10.0)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 37.9 (8.2)
Cash generated from operations 119.4 106.7
Acquisition related costs 6.7 -
Cash generated from underlying operations 126.1 106.7
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents during the year (1.6) (10.5)
(Increase)/decrease in debt and lease financing due to cash flows (171.1) 7.5
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows (172.7) (3.0)
Acquired debt (see Note 32) (5.4) -
New finance leases - 0.5
Foreign exchange differences (5.4) (3.1)
Amortisation of debt finance costs (1.2) (0.5)
Movement in net debt in the year (184.7) (6.1)
Net debt at start of the year (122.8) (116.7)
Net debt at end of the year (307.5) (122.8)
Analysis of net debt
As at 
1 Nov 2009 
£m
Cash
 flow
£m
Non-cash
changes
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
As at 
31 Oct 2010
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 61.3 (1.6) - (1.3) 58.4
Debt due within one year (34.3) (10.1) (20.5) (0.7) (65.6)
Debt due after one year (148.3) (157.2) 14.3 (3.4) (294.6)
Finance leases (1.4) (3.8) (0.4) - (5.6)
Preference shares (0.1) - - - (0.1)
(122.8) (172.7) (6.6) (5.4) (307.5) Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
56
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
1. General information
Chemring Group PLC is a company incorporated in England and 
Wales under registration number 86662. The address of the 
registered office is Chemring House, 1500 Parkway, Whiteley, 
Fareham, Hampshire, PO15 7AF. The nature of the Group’s 
operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 5 and in 
the Directors’ Report on pages 34 to 36. These financial statements 
are the consolidated financial statements of Chemring Group PLC 
and its subsidiaries (“the Group”).
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling. 
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policy set 
out in Note 3 of the financial statements.
Going concern
The directors have, at the time of approving the financial 
statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting in preparing the financial statements. Further detail is 
contained in the Statement on Corporate Governance on page 49.
2. Adoption of new and revised standards
The IFRIC interpretations, amendments to existing standards and 
new standards that are mandatory and relevant for the Group’s 
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 November 2009 have 
been adopted. Adoption of these standards has impacted the 
disclosures on the results and financial position as follows:
•  IAS 1 (revised) Presentation of Financial Statements, effective 
for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009, requires 
the presentation of a statement of changes in equity as a 
primary statement, separate from the Income Statement and 
Statement of Comprehensive Income. As a result, a Consolidated 
Statement of Changes in Equity has been included in the primary 
statements, showing changes in each component of equity for 
each period presented.
•  IAS 23 Borrowing Costs amendment became effective for periods 
commencing on or after 1 January 2009 and requires borrowing 
costs which meet certain criteria to be capitalised. The standard 
was early adopted by Chemring Group PLC in 2009.
•  IFRS 8 Operating Segments, became effective for periods 
commencing on or after 1 January 2009. IFRS 8 requires 
operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal 
reports about components of the Group that are regularly 
reviewed by the Chief Executive and the Board of Directors 
to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their 
performance. In contrast, the predecessor Standard  
(IAS 14 – Segment Reporting) required the Group to identify two 
sets of segments (business and geographical), using a risks and 
rewards approach, with the Group’s system of internal financial 
reporting to key management personnel serving only as the 
starting point for the identification of such segments. As a 
result, the segmental information included in Note 5 is presented 
in accordance with IFRS 8. An additional balance sheet as at 
31 October 2008 has not been provided as the adoption of the 
standard has not changed any number on the balance sheet.
•  IFRS 3 (revised 2008) Business Combinations, requires that 
transaction costs shall be expensed for acquisitions on or after 
1 November 2009.
The most significant changes to the Group’s previous accounting 
policies for business combinations are as follows:
• Acquisition related costs which previously would have been 
included in the cost of a business combination are included in 
administrative expenses as they are incurred.
• Any changes to the cost of an acquisition, including contingent 
consideration, resulting from events after the date of acquisition 
are recognised in profit or loss. Previously, such changes resulted 
in an adjustment to goodwill.
The revised standards have been applied to all the acquisitions that 
were completed during the year as described in Note 32.
Additionally the following new standards and interpretations 
have been adopted in the current year but have not impacted the 
reported results or the financial position:
• Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment and 
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures became effective
•  IFRIC 14 IAS 19 Employee Benefits – The Limit on a Defined Benefit 
Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction
•  IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 Embedded Derivatives
•  IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements
•  IFRIC 15 Arrangements for the Construction of Real Estate
•  IAS 27 (revised 2008) Consolidated and Separate 
Financial Statements
•  IAS 39 (amended) Eligible Hedged Items
•  IFRS 1 Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled 
Entity or Associate
•  IFRS 2 (amended) Vesting Conditions and Cancellations
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the 
following Standards and Interpretations which have not been 
applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet 
effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU):
• IFRS 1 (amended) Additional Exemptions for First-time Adopters
• IFRS 2 (amended) Group Cash-settled Share-based 
Payment Transaction
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
• IAS 24 (revised) Related Party Disclosure
• IAS 32 (amended) Classification of Rights Issue
• IFRIC 14 (amended) Prepayments of a Minimum 
Funding Requirement
•  IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners
• IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers
• IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments
• Improvements to IFRSs 2010 (May 2010) and 2009 (April 2009)
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and 
Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the 
financial statements of the Group, except for:
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments – This will introduce a number of 
changes in the presentation of financial instruments. 
3. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRS adopted for use in the European Union. These will be those 
IAS, IFRS and related Interpretations (Standing Interpretations 
Committee (SIC)/International Financial Reporting Interpretations 
Committee (IFRIC) interpretations), subsequent amendments to 
those standards and related interpretations, future standards 
and related interpretations issued or adopted by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (IASB) that have been endorsed by the  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
57
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
European Commission (collectively referred to as IFRS). These are 
subject to ongoing review and endorsement by the European 
Commission or possible amendment by interpretive guidance from 
the IASB and the IFRIC and are therefore still subject to change.
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group 
financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. 
The particular accounting policies adopted have been applied 
consistently throughout the current and previous years and are 
described below.
Accounting convention
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost 
convention, except for the revaluation of certain properties and 
financial instruments.
Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company 
and all of its subsidiaries. A subsidiary undertaking is an entity 
over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and 
operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its 
activities. The results of subsidiaries acquired are consolidated 
from the date on which control passes to the Group and the results 
of disposed subsidiaries are consolidated up to the date on which 
control passes from the Group.
All companies within the Group make up their financial statements 
to the same date. All intra-group transactions, balances, income 
and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated before the share of results of associates 
and before finance expense. Operating profit excludes the results of 
discontinued operations.
Revenue recognition
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received 
or receivable for deliveries made, work completed or services 
rendered during the year, net of discounts, VAT and other revenue 
related taxes. Revenue is recognised when title passes, or when 
the right to consideration, in exchange for performance, has been 
received. For bill and hold arrangements revenue is recognised 
when the risks and rewards are transferred to the customer, 
typically on formal acceptance. Service income is recognised over 
the life of the contract. An appropriate proportion of total long 
term contract value, based on the fair value of work performed, is 
included in revenue and an appropriate level of profit is taken based 
on the percentage completion method when the final outcome can 
be reliably assessed. Provision is made in full for foreseeable losses 
as soon as they are identified.
Investment income
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the 
shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
Acquisitions
On acquisition of a subsidiary, the cost is measured as the fair value 
of the consideration. The assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
of a subsidiary that meet the IFRS 3 (Revised 2008) Business 
Combinations recognition criteria are measured at the fair value 
at the date of acquisition. Where cost exceeds fair value of the net 
assets acquired the difference is recorded as goodwill.
Where the fair value of the net assets exceeds the cost, the 
difference is recorded directly in the Income Statement. 
The accounting policies of subsidiaries are changed where 
necessary to be consistent with those of the Group.
Acquisition related costs have been recognised in association 
with acquisitions that have been completed during the year. In 
accordance with IFRS 3 (Revised 2008) Business Combinations 
acquisition costs have been expensed through the Income 
Statement with effect from 1 November 2009.
Intangible assets
Goodwill
The purchased goodwill of the Group is regarded as having 
an indefinite useful economic life and, in accordance with 
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, is not amortised but is subject to 
annual tests for impairment. Goodwill arising on acquisition before 
the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK 
GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date. 
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, 
the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination 
of the profit or loss on disposal.
Acquired intangibles
For acquisitions after 1 November 2004 the Group recognises 
separately from goodwill intangible assets that are separable 
or arise from contractual or other legal rights and whose fair 
value can be measured reliably. These intangible assets relate to 
technology, customer relationships and acquired orderbooks and 
are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic 
lives, averaging ten years.
Development costs
Development costs that qualify as intangible assets are capitalised 
as incurred, and once the relevant intangible asset has been 
completed are amortised on a straight-line basis over their 
estimated useful lives, averaging three years. 
Other intangibles
Other intangibles are patents and trademarks which are measured 
initially at purchase cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis 
over their estimated useful lives, averaging ten years.
Property, plant and equipment
Other than historically revalued land and buildings, property, plant 
and equipment are held at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
any recognised impairment loss. Borrowing costs on significant 
capital expenditure projects since 1 November 2008 are capitalised 
and allocated to the cost of the project. No depreciation is provided 
on freehold land. On other assets depreciation is provided at rates 
calculated to write down their cost or valuation to their estimated 
residual values by equal instalments over their estimated useful 
economic lives, which are considered to be:
Freehold buildings  – up to 50 years
Leasehold buildings  – the period of the lease
Plant and equipment – 10 years
Investments in associates
The results and the net assets of associates are accounted for 
using the equity method of accounting. Any excess of the cost of 
investment over the Group’s share of the fair value of identifiable 
assets and liabilities within the associate at the date of acquisition 
is accounted for as goodwill. This is included in the carrying value 
of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of 
that investment. 
Impairment of non-current assets
Assets that have indefinite lives are tested for impairment annually. 
Assets that are subject to depreciation or amortisation are reviewed 
for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that 
the carrying value may not be recoverable. To the extent that the 
carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount an impairment loss  Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
58
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
is recorded for the difference as an expense in the Income 
Statement. The recoverable amount used for impairment testing is 
the higher of the value in use and its fair value less costs of disposal. 
For the purpose of impairment testing assets are grouped at the 
lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
Inventories
Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost represents materials, direct labour, other direct costs 
and related production overheads and is determined using the 
first-in first-out (FIFO) method. Net realisable value is based on 
estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to 
completion and disposal.
Provision is made for slow moving, obsolete and defective items 
where appropriate.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets 
that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for 
their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, 
until such time as the assets are subsequently ready for their 
intended use or sale.
To the extent that variable rate borrowings are used to finance a 
qualifying asset and are hedged in an effective cash flow hedge 
of interest rate risk, the effective portion of the derivative is 
recognised in other comprehensive income and released to profit or 
loss when the qualifying asset impacts profit or loss. To the extent 
that fixed rate borrowings are used to finance a qualifying asset and 
are hedged in an effective fair value hedge of interest rate risk, the 
capitalised borrowing costs reflect the hedged interest rate.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific 
borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is 
deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the 
period in which they are incurred.
Government grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable 
assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching 
to them and that the grants will be received.
The benefit of a government loan at a below-market rate of interest 
is treated as a government grant, measured as the difference 
between proceeds received and the fair value of the loan based on 
prevailing market interest rates.
Government grants towards staff re-training costs are recognised 
as income over the periods necessary to match them with the 
related costs and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are 
treated as deferred income and released to the Income Statement 
over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
Tax
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable 
and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. 
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income 
Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are 
taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items 
of income that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability 
for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is expected to be payable or recoverable on 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used 
in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the 
balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally 
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred 
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable taxable 
profits will be available in the future against which deductible 
temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are 
not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or 
from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) 
of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither 
the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, 
and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able 
to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is 
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
Balance Sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all 
or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset 
is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income 
Statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited 
directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with 
in equity.
Special capital reserve
The special capital reserve was created as part of a capital 
reduction scheme involving the cancellation of the share premium 
account which was approved by the Court in 1986, in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group company are 
presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in 
which it operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the 
consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position 
of each Group company are expressed in pounds sterling, which 
is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation 
currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, 
transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional 
currency (foreign currencies) are recorded at the rates of exchange 
prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each Balance Sheet 
date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in 
foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the 
Balance Sheet date. Non-monetary items carried at fair value that 
are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates 
prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Non-
monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a 
foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, 
and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the 
profit or loss for the period.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, 
the Group enters into forward contracts and forward currency 
3. Accounting policies continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
59
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
structures which are accounted for as derivative financial 
instruments (see below for details of the Group’s accounting 
policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments).
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, 
the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are 
translated at exchange rates prevailing on the Balance Sheet date. 
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange 
rates for the period. 
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s 
Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their 
nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand 
deposits, and other short term highly liquid investments that are 
readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an 
insignificant risk of change in value.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according 
to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An 
equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest 
in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption, and 
direct issue costs are accounted for on an accruals basis to the 
Income Statement using the effective interest method and are 
added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that 
they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their 
nominal value. 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks 
of interest rate and foreign currency transactions, and it uses 
derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to these 
transactional risks. The Group uses interest rate swap contracts, 
foreign exchange forward contracts and other forward currency 
structures to reduce these exposures and does not use derivative 
financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value at 
the date the derivative contract is entered into and are revalued 
at fair value at each Balance Sheet date. The method by which 
any gain or loss is recognised depends on whether the instrument 
is designated a hedging instrument or not. To be designated as a 
hedging instrument the instrument must be documented as such 
at inception and must be assessed at inception and on an ongoing 
basis to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or 
cash flows of hedged items.
Hedge accounting principles are used for foreign currency forward 
contracts and interest rate swaps where movements in fair value 
are held in equity until such time as the underlying amounts of the 
contract mature. At maturity or disposal of the net investment the 
amounts held in equity will be recycled to the Income Statement. 
Changes in fair value of any ineffective portion of net investment 
hedges and interest rate swaps are recognised in the Income 
Statement immediately. The fair values of derivative financial 
instruments are calculated by independent third party valuers.
Where derivatives do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting 
the changes in fair value are immediately recognised in the 
Income Statement.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the 
effective portion of the hedge is recognised in the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income and accumulated in the foreign currency 
translation reserve that forms part of the revenue reserve. The gain 
or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately 
in the Income Statement.
Embedded derivatives that are not closely related to the host 
contract are treated as separate derivatives, with unrealised gains 
and losses reported in the Income Statement.
Retirement benefit costs
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes 
are charged as an expense as they fall due. For defined benefit 
schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the 
projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being 
carried out at each Balance Sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses 
are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. They 
are recognised outside of the profit or loss and presented in the 
Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that 
the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on 
a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits 
become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Balance Sheet 
represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation 
as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced 
by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this 
calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value 
of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to 
the scheme.
Leased assets
Where the Group enters into a lease which entails taking 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset, 
the lease is treated as a finance lease. The asset is recorded in the 
Balance Sheet as property, plant and equipment and is depreciated 
over the shorter of the estimated useful economic life and the lease 
term. Future instalments under such leases, net of finance charges, 
are included in creditors. The finance element of the instalments is 
charged to the Income Statement at a constant rate of charge on 
the remaining balance of the obligation.
All other leases are operating leases and the rental charges are 
taken to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the life 
of the lease.
Share-based compensation
The Group operates equity settled and cash settled share-based 
compensation schemes.
For grants made under the Group’s share-based compensation 
schemes, the fair value is calculated at the grant date and 
recognised in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over 
the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of the shares 
that will eventually vest. The valuation of the options utilises a 
methodology based on the Black-Scholes model. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
60
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
For equity settled share-based grants, the total amount recognised 
is based on the fair value of the equity instrument measured at the 
date the award is made. At each Balance Sheet date the impact 
of any revision to vesting estimates is recognised in the Income 
Statement over the vesting period. Proceeds received, net of any 
directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital 
and share premium.
For cash settled share-based grants, the total amount recognised is 
based on the fair value of the liability incurred. The fair value of the 
liability is re-measured at each Balance Sheet date with changes in 
the fair value recognised in the Income Statement for the period.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation 
(legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that 
the Group will be required to settle that obligation, and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of 
the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the 
Balance Sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties 
surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using 
the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its 
carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle 
a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a 
receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that 
reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable 
can be measured reliably.
Restructuring provisions
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has 
developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has 
raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out 
the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing 
its main features to those affected by it. The measurement of 
a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures 
arising from the restructuring and not those associated with the 
ongoing activities of the entity.
Warranties
Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations under 
local sale of goods legislation are recognised at the date of sale 
of the relevant products, at the directors’ best estimate of the 
expenditure required to settle the Group’s obligation. 
Post balance sheet events
Following IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, the Group 
continues to disclose events that it considers material and 
non-disclosure of which can influence the economic decisions 
of users of the financial statements.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of 
estimation uncertainty
When applying the Group’s accounting policies, management 
must make assumptions and estimates concerning the future 
that affect the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at the 
Balance Sheet date and the amounts of revenue and expenses 
recognised during the accounting period. Such assumptions and 
estimates are based upon factors such as historical experience, the 
observance of trends in the industries in which the Group operates, 
and information available from the Group’s customers and other 
outside sources.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key 
sources of estimation uncertainty at the Balance Sheet date that 
have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial 
year include:
Goodwill impairment review
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of 
the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has 
been allocated. The value in use calculation requires the entity to 
determine such assets, to estimate the future cash flows expected 
to arise from the cash-generating unit and to determine a suitable 
discount rate in order to calculate present value (see Note 13). In 
reviewing the carrying value of goodwill of the various businesses 
the Board has considered the separate plans and cash flows of 
these businesses consistent with the requirements of IAS 36 and is 
satisfied that these demonstrate that no impairment has occurred 
in respect of continuing operations.
Assets and liabilities acquired under business combinations
Under IFRS 3 Business Combinations, it is necessary to separately 
identify and value any acquired intangible assets. In order to 
ascertain the values of the separate assets it is necessary for 
management to estimate the future cash flows attributable to 
the assets and estimate their useful economic lives (see Note 14). 
Assets and liabilities are recognised on acquisition when relevant 
which include deferred tax assets on losses (see Note 26).
Pensions
The liability recognised in relation to retirement benefit obligations 
is dependent on a number of assumptions, including discount rate, 
mortality rate, salary increases and inflation. Any change in these 
assumptions would change the amount recognised (see Note 33).
Legal 
The Group is subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising 
in the ordinary course of business. The Group is required to assess 
the likelihood of any adverse judgements or outcomes, as well 
as potential ranges of probable losses. A determination of the 
amount of reserves required for these matters is based on a careful 
analysis of each individual issue with the assistance of outside 
legal counsel. However, actual claims incurred could differ from the 
original estimates.
3. Accounting policies continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
61
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
4. Revenue
All of the Group’s revenue is derived from the sale of goods and provision of services. The following table provides an analysis of the 
Group’s revenue by destination.
Revenue by destination
Continuing
 operations
2010
£m
Acquisitions
2010
£m
Total 
2010
£m
Total 
2009
£m
UK 110.0 1.6 111.6 125.2
USA 274.6 18.5 293.1 235.4
Europe 72.1 0.8 72.9 75.0
Australia and Far East 43.8 0.3 44.1 39.1
Middle East 49.9 1.7 51.6 20.4
Rest of the world 20.2 3.6 23.8 8.8
570.6 26.5 597.1 503.9
In addition to the revenues shown above there was finance income of £0.5 million (2009: £0.7 million).
The directors consider the only countries that are considered significant in accordance with IFRS 8 are the UK and USA as disclosed above.
5. Business segments
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly 
reviewed by the Chief Executive and the Board of Directors to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance. 
For management purposes the Group has four operating divisions – Countermeasures, Counter-IED, Pyrotechnics and Munitions. 
These divisions are the basis on which it reports its segmental information and the principal activities are as follows:
Countermeasures Expendable active and passive countermeasures for naval and air platforms; land-based electronic 
warfare (EW) equipment.
Counter-IED: IED (Improvised Explosive Device) detection equipment; IED electronic countermeasures; explosive 
ordnance disposal equipment; demilitarisation services.
Pyrotechnics: Signals and illumination devices and payloads; cartridge/propellant actuated devices; pyrotechnic 
devices for satellite launch and deployment.
Munitions: Missile and ammunition components; propellants; warheads; fuzes; energetic materials; medium and 
large calibre ammunition.
A segmental analysis of revenue and operating profit is set out below:
Business segments
2010
£m
2009
£m
Revenue
Countermeasures 196.3 183.5
Counter-IED 114.9 61.2
Pyrotechnics 170.0 173.2
Munitions 115.9 86.0
Total revenue from third parties 597.1 503.9 Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
62
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Analysis of operating profit
2010
£m
2009
£m
Countermeasures 58.8 53.5
Counter-IED 28.1 15.6
Pyrotechnics 40.1 43.8
Munitions 20.9 13.4
Charge for share-based payments (2.3) (2.1)
Restructuring costs (1.5) (2.9)
Incident costs (2.8) -
Provision release (see Note 25) 2.4 -
Unallocated head office costs (8.1) (6.6)
Total underlying operating profit* 135.6 114.7
Acquisition related costs (6.7) -
Intangible amortisation arising from business combinations (17.0) (13.8)
(Loss)/gain on fair value movements on derivatives (4.0) 7.0
Total operating profit (see Note 6) 107.9 107.9
*Before acquisition related costs, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and (loss)/gain on fair value movements on derivatives
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in Note 3.
Intra-group transactions
There are no intra-group transactions included within the above figures for revenue and profit.
Information about major customers
Included in revenues arising from the segments are revenues of approximately £236.7 million (2009: £195.4 million) which arose from 
sales to the Group’s largest customer, the US Department of Defense. This was the only individual customer where direct sales account 
for more than 10% of the total Group revenue for the year.
Restructuring costs
In the second half of the year a decision was taken to restructure the Group’s UK counter-IED business at a cost of £1.5 million. As a result, 
one of the two sites out of which it operated was closed. The benefits of this closure will be seen in the current financial year.
The £2.9 million of restructuring costs in 2009 related to the UK countermeasures business and Chemring Ordnance in the USA.
Incident costs
In September 2010 two separate incidents stopped production at the Kilgore Flares facility in Tennessee and the Group’s newly acquired 
subsidiary Mecar in Belgium. As a result of these incidents approximately £7.0 million of revenue and £3.0 million of underlying operating 
profit was deferred into the current financial year. In addition, £2.8 million of non-recurring costs arising out of the incidents were 
incurred in respect of the write-off of damaged stock and destroyed assets.
Provision release
During the second half of the year, a third party assessment was carried out of the provision held in respect of the environmental 
liabilities associated with the Chemring Energetic Devices site in Illinois, USA. After taking into account this assessment and the additional 
insurance coverage that was secured in respect of this exposure during the year, the Group has released part of the provision. 
The Group does not disclose assets or liabilities by segment in the monthly management accounts provided to the Executive Committee 
or the Board of Directors. The Improvements to IFRSs issued in April 2009 only requires information provided to the chief operating 
decision maker as a key decision making tool to be disclosed. The Group has adopted this amendment in order to clarify that the chief 
operational decision makers do not use this as a key decision tool.
There were no material changes to the numbers disclosed for the year ended 31 October 2009 in arriving at the IFRS 8 Operating 
Segments disclosure, in which the additional information was disclosed.
5. Business segments continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
63
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
6. Operating profit
The following table shows a reconciliation of cost by function:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Total revenue 597.1 503.9
Cost of sales (386.8) (329.9)
Administrative expenses* (74.7) (59.3)
Acquisition related costs (6.7) -
Intangible amortisation arising from business combinations (17.0) (13.8)
(Loss)/gain on fair value movements on derivatives (4.0) 7.0
Total administrative expenses (102.4) (66.1)
Total operating profit 107.9 107.9
*  Before  acquisition related costs, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and (loss)/gain on fair value movements on derivatives
Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting):
2010
£m
2009
£m
Research and development costs - customer funded 20.6 9.7
   - internally funded 5.8 4.4
Amortisation  - arising from business combinations 17.0 13.8
   - development costs 2.1 1.1
   - other intangible assets 0.3 0.4
Depreciation  - property, plant and equipment 11.5 13.0
   - leased assets 0.1 0.3
Impairment charge - 1.1
Operating lease rentals - plant and machinery 1.2 1.1
   - other 0.7 1.1
Government grant (0.1) (0.4)
Foreign exchange losses 2.0 3.1
Staff costs (see Note 7) 133.0 108.9
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 254.7 204.1
Restructuring costs (see Note 5) 1.5 2.9
Incident costs (see Note 5) 2.8 -
Provision release (see Note 5) (2.4) -
Auditors’ remuneration (see over) 1.4 0.9 Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
64
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
A more detailed analysis of auditors’ remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below:
Auditors’ remuneration:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for: 
The audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.4 0.3
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3
0.7 0.6
Other services:
Tax services - compliance 0.1 0.1
Tax services - advisory 0.3 0.1
Corporate finance services 0.3 0.1
0.7 0.3
1.4 0.9
Corporate finance services relate to fees for acquisitions and disposals. Included in the Group audit fees is £0.1 million (2009: £0.1 million) paid 
in respect of the parent company.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Statement on Corporate Governance on pages 47 and 48 and includes an 
explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
During the year the Group incurred professional fees with other accountancy firms for the provision of corporate finance services of 
£0.4 million (2009: £0.3 million).
7. Staff costs
The average monthly number of employees within each category (including executive directors) was:
2010
Number
2009
Number
Production 3,234 2,660
Administration, sales and marketing 754 719
3,988 3,379
At the year end the number of employees was 4,283 (2009: 3,349).
The costs incurred in respect of these employees were:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Wages and salaries 113.0 88.8
Social security costs 15.3 15.0
Other pension costs 4.7 5.1
133.0 108.9
8. Finance income
2010
£m
2009
£m
Bank interest 0.5 0.7
6. Operating profit continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
65
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
9. Finance expense
2010
£m
2009
£m
Bank overdraft and loan interest 0.3 0.3
Loan notes interest 15.5 5.8
Medium term loan interest 2.8 5.2
Finance lease interest 0.3 0.2
Amortisation of debt finance costs 1.2 0.5
Unwinding of discount on provisions (see Note 25) 0.3 -
Interest cost of retirement benefit obligations (see Note 33) 1.2 1.3
Amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets (2.2) (0.4)
19.4 12.9
Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate of 7% (2009: 6%)
to expenditure on such assets.
10. Tax
2010
£m
2009
£m
Current tax charge (19.5) (26.5)
Deferred tax (charge)/credit (see Note 26) (2.9) 0.8
Total current year tax charge (22.4) (25.7)
Income tax in the UK is calculated at 28% (2009: 28%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Tax for other jurisdictions is 
calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The total charge for the year can be reconciled to the Income Statement as follows:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Profit before tax for the year 89.1 95.8
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 28% (2009: 28%) (24.9) (26.8)
Income not chargeable for tax purposes 2.2 0.6
Utilisation of tax losses 0.2 0.9
Changes in tax rates 1.3 -
Other - 0.1
Prior year adjustments 0.6 (0.2)
Overseas profits taxed at rates different to the standard rate (1.8) (0.3)
Total current year tax charge (22.4) (25.7)
In addition to the income tax expense charged to the Income Statement, a tax debit of £2.0 million (2009: tax credit of £3.3 million) has 
been recognised in equity in the year and is included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The effective rate of tax incurred by the Group is 25.1% (2009: 26.8%), and the underlying* effective rate of tax incurred by the Group is 
25.6% (2009: 26.9%).
*  Before  acquisition related costs, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and (loss)/gain on fair value movements on derivatives.
11. Dividends
2010
£m
2009
£m
Dividends on ordinary shares of 5p each
Final dividend for the year ended 31 October 2009 36.0p (2008: 25.0p) 12.7 8.8
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 October 2010 17.0p (2009: 14.0p) 6.0 5.0
Total dividends 18.7 13.8
The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 October 2010 of 42p per share will, if approved, absorb approximately 
£14.8 million of shareholders’ funds. The dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and accordingly 
has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
66
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
12. Earnings per share
Earnings per share are based on the average number of shares in issue of 35,320,445 (2009: 35,266,616) and profit on ordinary 
activities after tax of £66.7 million (2009: £70.1 million). Diluted earnings per share has been calculated using a diluted average number 
of shares in issue of 35,677,687 (2009: 35,601,379) and profit on ordinary activities after tax of £66.7 million (2009: £70.1 million).
The earnings and shares used in the calculations are as follows:
From continuing operations 2010 2009
Earnings
£m
Ordinary shares
Number 
000s
EPS
Pence
Earnings
£m
Ordinary shares
Number 
000s
EPS
Pence
Basic 66.7 35,320 189 70.1 35,267 199
Additional shares issuable other 
than at fair value in respect of 
options outstanding - 358 (2) - 334 (2)
Diluted 66.7 35,678 187 70.1 35,601 197
The number of shares in issue differs from the number held by third parties due to the fact that the Group holds Chemring Group PLC 
shares in treasury. Further information on the treasury share holding is given in Note 29.
Reconciliation from basic earnings per share to underlying earnings per share:
Underlying basic earnings are defined as earnings before acquisition related costs, intangible amortisation arising from business 
combinations and (loss)/gain on fair value movements on derivatives. The directors consider this measure of earnings allows a more 
meaningful comparison of earnings trends.
2010 2009
Earnings
£m
Ordinary shares
Number 
000s
EPS
Pence
Earnings
£m
Ordinary shares
Number 
000s
EPS
Pence
Basic 66.7 35,320 189 70.1 35,267 199
Acquisition related costs, intangible 
amortisation arising from business 
combinations and (loss)/gain on fair 
value movements on derivatives 
(after tax) 20.2 - 57 4.9 - 14
Underlying 86.9 35,320 246 75.0 35,267 213
13. Goodwill 
£m
Cost
At 1 November 2008 128.8
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 17.0
Foreign exchange adjustments 3.7
At 1 November 2009 149.5
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 84.9
Foreign exchange adjustments 2.0
At 31 October 2010 236.4
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 November 2008, 1 November 2009 and 31 October 2010 -
Carrying amount
At 31 October 2010 236.4
At 31 October 2009 149.5 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
67
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Additions to goodwill since 1 November 2008 can be split as follows:
£m
Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. 16.6
Goodwill arising from fair value adjustments on prior year acquisitions  0.4
At 31 October 2009 17.0
Hi-Shear Technology Corporation* 47.3
Mecar S.A.* 3.8
Roke Manor Research Limited * 27.5
Other acquisitions* 6.3
At 31 October 2010 84.9
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the cash generating units (“CGUs”) that are expected to benefit 
from that business combination. The carrying amount of the goodwill has been allocated to our principal CGUs. An analysis of goodwill as 
at 31 October 2010 by principal CGU is shown below:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Hi-Shear Technology Corporation 49.2 -
Simmel Difesa S.p.A.** 48.5 47.1
Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. 28.7 28.0
Roke Manor Research Limited 27.5 -
Chemring Energetics UK Limited 18.1 18.1
Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. 15.5 15.1
Other 48.9 41.2
Total goodwill 236.4 149.5
*  See  Note 32
**  Includes  £2.8 million goodwill from the acquisition of Chemring Fuze Technology S.r.l. in 2010.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the CGU are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations 
are those regarding the discount rates, the growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period 
for which management have detailed plans. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGU being measured (the weighted average cost of capital “WACC”). 
The discount rate used is based on the Group pre-tax WACC of 7.4% (2009: 7.8%) and adjusted for a premium specific to each CGU. The 
calculation has used the Group’s budgeted figures for the next five years. At the end of five years, it assumes the performance of the 
Group companies will continue in perpetuity at the fifth year level. The growth rates are based on management’s view of industry growth 
forecasts, adjusted for a premium associated with the high technological nature of the businesses. Changes in selling prices and direct 
costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market. The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from 
the most recent financial budgets approved by management for the next five years and extrapolates cash flows after that period based on 
growth as described above.
Following a detailed review, no impairment losses for continuing operations have been recognised in the year and no prior impairment 
losses reversed.
There was significant headroom within all the value in use calculations. Additionally, sensitivity analysis has indicated that no reasonably 
possible change in the key assumptions used would result in a significant impairment charge being recorded in the financial statements. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
68
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
14. Other intangible assets
Acquired
intangibles
£m
Development
 costs
£m
Other*
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 November 2008 90.5 7.4 1.6 99.5
Additions - 4.6 0.2 4.8
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 15.5 - - 15.5
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.1 (0.1) - -
At 1 November 2009 106.1 11.9 1.8 119.8
Additions - 7.5 0.3 7.8
Disposals - (0.6) (0.2) (0.8)
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings** 111.2 0.2 0.2 111.6
Foreign exchange adjustments 4.8 - - 4.8
At 31 October 2010 222.1 19.0 2.1 243.2
Amortisation
At 1 November 2008 10.7 3.0 0.8 14.5
Charge for the year 13.8 1.1 0.4 15.3
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.3) (0.1) - (0.4)
At 1 November 2009 24.2 4.0 1.2 29.4
Charge for the year 17.0 2.1 0.3 19.4
Disposals - (0.5) (0.1) (0.6)
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.4) - - (0.4)
At 31 October 2010 40.8 5.6 1.4 47.8
Carrying amount
At 31 October 2010 181.3 13.4 0.7 195.4
At 31 October 2009 81.9 7.9 0.6 90.4
Acquired intangible assets represents acquired order book £35.2 million (2009: £10.4 million), technology £33.0 million (2009: £13.5 million), 
and customer relationships £113.1 million (2009: £58.0 million). These are recognised at fair value on acquisition and are amortised over 
their estimated useful lives. Fair values for acquired intangible assets are assessed by reference to future estimated cash flows discounted 
at an appropriate rate to present value, or by reference to the amount that would have been paid in an arm’s length transaction between 
two knowledgeable and willing parties. Other intangible assets are recognised at cost and are amortised over their estimated useful lives 
(see Note 3).
* Other intangibles comprise patents and licences. 
** See Note 32. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
69
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
15. Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Total 
£m
Cost or valuation
At 1 November 2008 60.3 93.0 153.3
Additions 6.0 27.4 33.4
Transfer - 2.3 2.3
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings - 0.4 0.4
Disposals - (0.8) (0.8)
Foreign exchange adjustments 2.8 2.0 4.8
At 1 November 2009 69.1 124.3 193.4
Additions 14.4 26.5 40.9
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 13.5 8.5 22.0
Disposals - (6.2) (6.2)
Foreign exchange adjustments 1.0 3.4 4.4
At 31 October 2010 98.0 156.5 254.5
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 November 2008 7.2 35.7 42.9
Charge for the year 2.5 10.8 13.3
Impairment charge 1.1 - 1.1
Disposals - (0.2) (0.2)
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.2) 1.5 1.3
At 1 November 2009 10.6 47.8 58.4
Charge for the year 0.5 11.1 11.6
Disposals - (6.1) (6.1)
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.6) 2.5 1.9
At 31 October 2010 10.5 55.3 65.8
Carrying amount
At 31 October 2010 87.5 101.2 188.7
At 31 October 2009 58.5 76.5 135.0
The carrying amount of the Group’s plant and equipment includes an amount of £5.4 million (2009: £2.1 million) in respect of assets held 
under finance leases. £2.2 million (2009: £0.4 million) of interest has been capitalised (see Note 9) in the year, bringing the cumulative 
cost to £2.6 million (2009: £0.4 million) since 1 November 2008.
Land and buildings were revalued at 30 September 1997 by Chestertons Chartered Surveyors, independent valuers not connected with 
the Group, on the basis of depreciated replacement cost for two pyrotechnic sites, and on open market for the remainder.
2010
£m
2009
£m
30 September 1997 depreciated replacement cost 5.8 5.8
Freehold at cost 92.2 63.3
 98.0 69.1
If stated under historical cost principles the comparable amounts for the total of land and buildings would be:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Cost 96.0 67.1
Accumulated depreciation (9.9) (10.0)
Historical cost value 86.1 57.1
All other tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
70
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
At 31 October 2010 the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting 
to £18.8 million (2009: £14.0 million). Included within this figure were commitments totalling £16.3 million to be spent on conducting two 
major investment programmes for new countermeasures facilities at Salisbury, UK and Lara, Australia. 
16. Subsidiary undertakings
All subsidiary undertakings have been included in the consolidation. The undertakings held at 31 October 2010 which, in the opinion of the 
directors, principally affected the results for the year or the net assets of the Group are shown below:
Subsidiary undertaking
Country of incorporation 
(or registration) 
and operation
% of issued ordinary
share capital controlled
by Chemring Group PLC Activity
Chemring Countermeasures Ltd England 100 Countermeasures
Chemring Defence UK Ltd England 100 Pyrotechnics/Counter-IED
Chemring Marine Ltd England 100 Pyrotechnics
Chemring EOD Ltd England 100 Counter-IED
Chemring Prime Contracts Ltd England 100 Munitions
Roke Manor Research Ltd England 100 Countermeasures/Counter-IED
Chemring Energetics UK Ltd Scotland 100 Munitions/Pyrotechnics/Counter-IED
Chemring Defence Germany GmbH Germany 100 Pyrotechnics/Counter-IED
Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. USA 100 Countermeasures
Kilgore Flares Company LLC USA 100 Countermeasures
Technical Ordnance, Inc. USA 100 Munitions/Pyrotechnics
Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. USA 100 Munitions/Pyrotechnics
Chemring Ordnance, Inc. USA 100 Munitions/Pyrotechnics
Chemring Military Products, Inc. USA 100 Munitions
Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. USA 100 Counter-IED
Hi-Shear Technology Corporation USA 100 Pyrotechnics
Chemring Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100 Countermeasures/Munitions/
Pyrotechnics/Counter-IED
Chemring Defence Spain S.L. Spain 100 Pyrotechnics
Simmel Difesa S.p.A. Italy 100 Pyrotechnics/Munitions/Counter-IED
Chemring Fuze Technology S.r.l. Italy 100 Munitions
Chemring Nobel AS Norway 100 Munitions
Mecar S.A. Belgium 100 Munitions
Associated undertaking
CIRRA S.A. France 49 Countermeasures
17. Interest in associate
2010
£m
2009
£m
Interest in associate (including goodwill of £0.5 million (2009: £0.5 million)) 1.1 1.1
Amounts relating to associate:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Total assets 1.6 1.6
Total liabilities (0.4) (0.4)
Net assets 1.2 1.2
Group’s share of net assets (excluding goodwill) 0.6 0.6
The results of the associated undertaking for the year ended 30 September 2010 relate to the Group’s share of CIRRA S.A.
2010
£m
2009
£m
Total revenue 1.9 1.7
Profit after tax 0.2 0.1
Group’s share of profit of associate 0.1 0.1
15. Property, plant and equipment continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
71
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
18. Inventories
2010
£m
2009
£m
Raw materials 53.1 41.7
Work in progress 68.4 32.0
Finished goods 20.8 23.2
142.3 96.9
There are no significant differences between the replacement costs and the fair values shown above.
19. Trade and other receivables
2010
£m
2009
£m
Current
Trade receivables 141.1 85.0
Allowance for doubtful debts (2.0) (1.0)
139.1 84.0
Other debtors 14.8 7.5
Prepayments and accrued income 12.4 7.3
166.3 98.8
All amounts shown above are due within one year.
The average credit period taken on sales of goods, based on a rollback basis, is 47 days (2009: 46 days). No interest is charged on the 
receivables from the date of invoice to payment. 
The Group’s policy is to provide in full for debtors greater than 120 days beyond agreed terms, unless extenuating circumstances exist. 
Due to the nature of the customer base the Group does not experience significant bad debt write-offs and hence no movement schedule 
for the allowance for doubtful debts has been provided due to its immaterial level in 2010 and 2009. The increase in the year is due to 
acquisitions. An ageing analysis has not been shown as all significant overdue receivables are covered by the allowance for doubtful debts 
provision above. The vast majority of the trade debtor balance is not yet due based on the average credit terms provided to customers.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair values.
20. Cash and cash equivalents
Bank balances and cash comprise cash held by the Group and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
Included within cash is £31.2 million of restricted cash (2009: £5.5 million), of which £15.0 million (2009: £5.0 million) is held in escrow in 
relation to the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme (see Note 33) and £13.1 million (2009: £nil) held as security against performance 
related bonds at Mecar S.A..
21. Borrowings
2010
£m
2009
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts 62.1 34.3
UK medium term bank loans - sterling denominated 1.1 13.3
- euro denominated 28.0 42.8
- other denominated 2.2 3.6
Overseas medium term bank loans - US dollar denominated 0.3 1.4
Other loans - euro denominated  5.3 -
Loan notes - sterling denominated 12.5 12.5
- US dollar denominated 248.7 74.7
 360.2 182.6 Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
72
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
2010
£m
2009
£m
Sterling 43.6 38.0
US dollar 254.9 89.4
Euro 58.0 51.6
Other 3.7 3.6
Total 360.2 182.6
The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows:
2010
%
2009
%
Bank overdrafts 4.9 4.9
UK medium term loans - sterling denominated 4.9 4.9
- US dollar denominated - 4.9
- euro denominated 5.0 5.0
- other denominated 5.5 6.8
Overseas medium term loans - US dollar denominated 4.2 4.2
Other loans - euro denominated 5.0 -
Loan notes - sterling denominated 6.8 6.8
- US dollar denominated 5.3 – 6.3 6.3
Bank
loans and
overdrafts
Loan
 notes
Other
 loans

2010


Total
Bank
loans and
overdrafts
Loan
 notes
Other
 loans
2009


Total
Borrowings falling due within:
One year 62.1 - 3.5 65.6 34.3 - - 34.3
Borrowings falling due within:
One to two years 30.5 - 1.8 32.3 36.4 - - 36.4
Two to five years 1.1 - - 1.1 24.7 - - 24.7
After five years - 261.2 - 261.2 - 87.2 - 87.2
 31.6 261.2 1.8 294.6 61.1 87.2 - 148.3
Total borrowings 93.7 261.2 5.3 360.2 95.4 87.2 - 182.6
Bank loans and overdrafts held with Lloyds Banking Group were secured by a debenture over the assets of certain of the Group’s 
subsidiaries and are also subject to cross guarantees between subsidiaries. Bank loans held with Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania (USA) 
were secured on the related assets purchased with these loans by Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. The security over the loan notes ranked 
pari passu with that held by Lloyds Banking Group.
As described in Note 36, the Group refinanced its facilities with Lloyds Banking Group with a new syndicate of five banks on 14 January 2011. 
The new facilities are unsecured, and the security over the loan notes has therefore also now been released.
Other loans represent the regional development loan which was acquired on the acquisition of Mecar S.A. (see Note 32). The movement in 
the loan represents foreign exchange movements since acquisition.
The directors do not believe the fair value of the Group’s borrowings to be materially different to the book values.
There have been no breaches of the terms of the loan agreements or defaults during the current or previous year. 
The Group had the following undrawn borrowing facilities in various currencies available in respect of which all conditions precedent have 
been met. These facilities are at floating interest rates.
2010
£m
2009
£m
Undrawn borrowings
Cash and gross facilities 219.3 163.6
Bonds and guarantees (114.7) (56.7)
Total undrawn borrowings  104.6 106.9
21. Borrowings continued
Analysis of borrowings by currency: Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
73
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
22. Obligations under finance leases
Minimum lease 
payments
Present value of minimum 
lease payments
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Amounts payable under finance leases:
Within one year 2.8 0.6 2.6 0.5
In the second to fifth years 3.3 1.1 3.0 0.9
Less future finance charges (0.5) (0.3) - -
Present value of lease obligations 5.6 1.4 5.6 1.4
Less amounts due within twelve months shown under current liabilities (2.6) (0.5)
Amount due for settlement after twelve months 3.0 0.9
Finance lease obligations attract interest rates of between 2% and 3% above base rate. Lease obligations are denominated in sterling, 
US dollars, Euro and Australian dollars.
The fair value of the Group’s leases approximates to their carrying amounts.
The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ title to the underlying leased assets (see Note 15).
23. Trade and other payables
2010
£m
2009
£m
Current
Trade creditors 100.1 62.4
Other creditors 40.5 10.6
Other tax and Social Security 4.6 3.9
Advanced payments 52.8 7.8
Accruals and deferred income 21.7 30.4
219.7 115.1
Non-current – Other creditors 1.0 1.8
Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. Advance payments are 
amounts received from customers on larger contracts to fund working capital. £18.9 million of these advance payments were assumed on 
the acquisition of Mecar S.A. (see Note 32). The directors consider that the carrying amount of payables approximates to their fair value.
The average credit period taken on purchases of goods, based on a rollback basis, is 83 days (2009: 78 days). No interest is charged on 
the payables from the date of invoice to payment. 
24. Financial instruments and risk management
The Group uses financial instruments to manage financial and commercial risk wherever it is appropriate to do so. The main risks 
addressed by the financial instruments of the Group are interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s policies in 
respect of the management of these risks, which remained unchanged throughout the year, were as follows:
The Group’s multi-national activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The 
Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, including:
• Forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on translation of the Group’s investments in overseas 
businesses which have currencies other than sterling as their functional currency.
• Interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of rising interest rates.
• Forward currency structures to hedge the exchange risk arising on translation of the overseas business profits.
Foreign currency risk management
The Group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Hence, exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise. 
Foreign currency exchange risk can be subdivided into two components, transactional risk and translation risk:
Transactional risk:  The Group policy is to hedge significant transactional currency exposures via the use of forward foreign exchange 
contracts. The measurement and control of this risk is closely monitored on a Group-wide basis.
Translation risk:  The Group translates overseas results and net assets in accordance with the accounting policy in Note 3. 
The translation risk on net assets is mitigated by the transfer of currencies between Group companies and the 
appropriate use of foreign currency borrowings. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
74
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the year end were as follows:
US$ Euro NOK
2010
AUS$ US$ Euro NOK
2009
AUS$
Monetary assets (million) 154.6 69.2 48.7 10.5 100.9 34.1 36.8 4.8
Monetary liabilities (million) 312.5 105.1 17.5 6.9 185.3 84.7 42.1 2.0
Currency denominated net assets are partially hedged by currency borrowings. The borrowings detailed below were designated as 
hedging instruments in net investment hedges.
US$ Euro NOK
2010
AUS$ US$ Euro NOK
2009
AUS$
Borrowings (million) 405.0 53.1 35.0 - 147.1 57.6 33.9 -
The Group uses foreign exchange contracts to hedge its currency risk, most with a maturity of less than one year from the year end. 
When necessary, forward exchange contracts are rolled over at maturity. The most significant exchange rate to manage as far as the 
Group is concerned is the sterling: US dollar exchange rate.
The following table details the forward foreign currency contracts for sales of foreign currencies outstanding as at the year end:
Average exchange rate Expiring within one year
2010

2009

2010
£m
2009
£m
US dollar 1.65 1.66 84.2 39.4
Euro Nil 1.01 Nil 1.2
At the year end, there was one US dollar structure in place which was set up to protect the Income Statement from currency fluctuations 
during 2010 and through to October 2011, which provides an economic hedge. The structure involves a cap and a collar, which lock in the 
exchange rates to give the Group the appropriate protection. However, the structure does not give linear relationships with the gain or 
loss from re-translation of future profits and hence hedge accounting has not been adopted for this financial instrument.
A loss for the year ended 31 October 2010 has arisen due to the continual fluctuation of foreign currency markets since the new structure 
was implemented in January 2010. The Group continues to protect its foreign currency position with a fixed rate of $1.64 in the year to 
October 2011 and $1.57 in the year to 31 October 2012. 
The principal amounts of the Group’s Euro, NOK and US dollar bank loans and loan notes have been accounted for as net investment 
hedges on the European, Norwegian and US businesses. These hedges are effective throughout the year and the losses arising on 
translation have been offset against the gains on re-translation of the subsidiaries in reserves. 
Interest on borrowing is denominated in currencies that match the cash flows generated by the underlying operations of the Group. 
This provides an economic hedge and no derivatives are entered into except for interest rate swaps to hedge the interest rate risks.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 10 cents movement in the relevant foreign currencies against sterling. 10 cents 
represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates. The sensitivity analysis includes only 
outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the year end for a 10 cents change in foreign 
currency rates. A negative number indicates a decrease in profit and equity where sterling strengthens against the relevant currency.
US dollar impact Euro impact
2010

2009

2010
£m
2009
£m
Loss (15.2) (9.8) (3.0) (4.6)
Other equity (15.2) (9.8) (3.0) (4.6)
The Group’s sensitivity to foreign currency increased during the year, mainly due to the growth of the US and European subsidiaries. 
These potential losses arising on the year end foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities would be more than offset by future 
translation and transaction gains. 
As such, in management’s opinion the sensitivity analysis above is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign exchange risk, as the year end 
exposure does not reflect the lower exposure during the year.
Interest rate risk
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits, bank borrowings and leasing lines of credit. The UK borrowings 
are denominated in sterling, Euro, US dollar and Norwegian Kroner, and during the year were subject to floating rates of interest 
linked to the Lloyds Banking Group base rate. In order to protect against the risk of higher interest rates, the Group has entered into 
amortising interest rate swaps for the majority of its UK borrowings. The overseas borrowings are denominated in local currency and are 
predominantly subject to fixed rates of interest.
24. Financial instruments and risk management continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
75
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
During 2007, the Group refinanced part of its Lloyds Banking Group borrowing facilities with a private placement of ten year fixed interest 
loan notes in the US. The arrangement provides a natural hedge against the Group’s investment structure in its US businesses. These loan 
notes are repayable in full in 2017.
During 2009, the Group undertook another refinancing of part of its Lloyds Banking Group borrowing facilities with private placements 
of seven and ten year fixed interest loan notes in the US. This arrangement also provides a natural hedge against the Group’s investment 
structure in its US businesses. These loan notes are repayable in full in 2016 and 2019.
Euro, NOK and sterling floating rate borrowings have interest rate swaps which mitigate the exposure arising on the floating rate debt 
and were all designated as cash flow hedges. The sterling loan was repaid in November 2009 and as such the interest rate hedge was 
de-recognised at the year end. The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap 
contracts outstanding at the reporting date.
Period of swap contracts
Fixed rate
%
From

To Currency value
m
Sterling bank loans 3.6–4.76 November 2007 April 2014 23.9
Euro bank loans 3.67–4.35 November 2007 April 2014 58.1
NOK bank loans 5.495 November 2007 April 2012 35.0
As the Group has predominantly fixed interest rate loans, the Income Statement is not sensitive to a small change in interest rates. The 
range represents the two applicable interest rates incurred during the swap contracts. The swap instruments match the interest payment 
profiles of the medium term debt. 
Liquidity risk
The table below details the maturity profiles of the Group’s derivative financial instruments and loans as at the year end:
2010 2009
Derivative 
payables
£m
Derivative
receivables
£m
Loans and
overdrafts 
£m
Total 
£m
Derivative 
payables
£m
Derivative
receivables
£m
Loans and
overdrafts 
£m
Total 
£m
Falling due within:
One year 84.2 (86.0) 65.6 63.8 59.4 (59.0) 34.3 34.7
One to two years 44.9 (45.8) 32.3 31.4 32.8 (32.5) 36.4 36.7
Two to five years - - 1.1 1.1 - - 24.7 24.7
After five years - - 261.2 261.2 - - 87.2 87.2
129.1 (131.8) 360.2 357.5 92.2 (91.5) 182.6 183.3
The profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities is as follows:
Financial assets
2010
Total
£m
2009
Total
£m
Sterling - 23.9
US dollar 47.0 17.3
Australian dollar 0.7 2.6
Euro 30.1 16.0
Other currencies 2.4 1.5
80.2 61.3
Overdraft offset in the UK (21.8) -
Cash at bank and in hand 58.4 61.3
Financial assets held in the UK enjoy a right of interest offset against overdraft balances. Overseas financial assets have a weighted 
average interest rate of 0.5% (2009: 0.5%). The financial assets for both years are at floating rate.
Included within cash is £31.2 million of restricted cash (2009: £5.5 million), of which £15.0 million (2009: £5.0 million) is held in escrow in 
relation to the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme (see Note 33) and £13.1 million (2009: £nil) is held as security against performance 
related bonds at Mecar S.A.. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
76
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Financial liabilities 2010 2009
Floating rate
£m
Fixed rate
£m
Total
£m
Floating rate
£m
Fixed rate
£m
Total
£m
Sterling (25.8) (43.7) (69.5) - (38.7) (38.7)
US dollar (1.3) (254.9) (256.2) (12.2) (78.0) (90.2)
Euro (0.3) (58.0) (58.3) - (51.6) (51.6)
Other currencies - (3.7) (3.7) - (3.6) (3.6)
(27.4) (360.3) (387.7) (12.2) (171.9) (184.1)
Overdraft offset in the UK 21.8 -
(365.9) (184.1)
Bank loans and overdrafts (62.1) (34.3)
UK medium term loans (31.3) (59.7)
Loan notes (261.2) (87.2)
Overseas medium term loans (0.3) (1.4)
Other loans (5.3) -
(360.2) (182.6)
Preference shares (see Note 27) (0.1) (0.1)
Obligations under finance leases (5.6) (1.4)
(365.9) (184.1)
A right of offset exists for currency amounts held within the UK by Lloyds Banking Group. These are used to offset the interest charged on 
the UK overdraft which bears interest at 0.5% above LIBOR. Cash at bank and in hand consists primarily of overseas funds which are used 
as short term intra-group financing as well as an internal exchange rate hedge.
The maturity profile for other financial assets and financial liabilities consisting of receivables and payables can be considered less than 
one year, as identified from the Balance Sheet.
The weighted average interest rate of fixed rate financial liabilities at 31 October 2010 was 5.6% (2009: 5.5%) and the weighted average 
period of funding was six years (2009: five years).
Derivative financial instruments 
The Group has three amortising interest rate swaps, from floating to fixed rate: one that expires in 2014 at a rate of 3.6-4.76% (sterling); 
one that expires in 2014 at a rate of 3.67-4.35% (Euro) and one that expires in 2012 at a rate of 5.495% (NOK). The fair value of interest 
rate swaps recognised on the Balance Sheet at 31 October 2010 was £5.7 million liability (2009: £4.8 million liability). The Group also has 
two forward exchange contracts with a fair value of £3.2 million liability (2009: £nil) and £1.9 million asset (2009: £0.2 million asset). The 
total of these financial instruments is a £7.0 million liability (2009: £4.6 million liability).
The following table details the fair value of derivative financial instruments recognised in the Balance Sheet at the year end:
2010
Total
£m
2009
Total
£m
Interest rate swaps (5.7) (4.8)
Forward exchange contracts (1.3) 0.2
Forward currency structure derivatives - 0.2
(7.0) (4.4)
Analysed as:
2010
Total
£m
2009
Total
£m
Included in current assets 1.9 0.4
Included in current liabilities (1.6) (1.1)
Included in non-current liabilities (7.3) (3.7)
(7.0) (4.4)
24. Financial instruments and risk management continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
77
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Hedge accounting has been applied on the forward exchange contracts and two of the interest rate swaps. The values are recorded 
in reserves. A third swap ceased to be hedge accounted due to the hedge becoming ineffective, and so all gains and losses from 
September 2010 are recorded in the Income Statement. The £3.0 million loss (2009: £8.9 million gain) on currency structures is 
recorded in the Income Statement as part of the reconciliation to underlying operating profit.
The following table details the (loss)/gain on fair value movements on derivatives recognised in the Income Statement:
2010
Total
£m
2009
Total
£m
Change in fair value of currency structures (3.0) 8.9
Amortisation (1.0) (0.5)
Charge arising on de-recognition of hedge accounting - (1.4)
(4.0) 7.0
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, and trade and other receivables, which represent the Group’s 
maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets. The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single 
counterparty. The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high 
credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the Balance Sheet are net of allowances 
for doubtful receivables, based on prior experience and an assessment of the current economic environment. Trade receivable consists 
of a small number of customers spread across diverse geographical areas. Customers are mainly multi-national organisations or 
government agencies with whom the Group has long term business relationships. The majority of the Group’s business is with the 
US Department of Defense and the UK Ministry of Defence, and as such the credit risk on debtors is considered to be very low. Ongoing 
credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable and, when appropriate, action is taken to minimise the 
credit risk to the Group.
The Group’s price risk is principally in relation to the cost of raw materials and is not considered significant. Price risk is managed through 
negotiations with suppliers and, where appropriate, the agreement of fixed price supply contracts.
Capital management
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future 
development of the business. The Board monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the return on capital, which 
the Group defines as total shareholders’ equity, excluding non-redeemable preference shares and minority interests, and the level of 
dividends to ordinary shareholders. 
From time to time the Group purchases its own shares on the market; the timing of these purchases depends on the market prices. 
Primarily, the shares are intended to be used for satisfying awards under the Group’s share-based incentive schemes. Buy and sell 
decisions are made on a specific transaction basis by the Board. The Group does not have a defined share buy back plan. 
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year. 
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements. 
25. Provisions
Environmental
provisions
£m
Warranty
provisions
£m
Restructuring
provisions
£m
Total
£m
At 1 November 2009 4.6 0.6 1.2 6.4
Unwinding of discount 0.3 - - 0.3
Provided for in the year - 0.2 1.5 1.7
Effect of foreign exchange movements - 0.2 - 0.2
Utilised in the year (0.3) (0.1) (0.8) (1.2)
Released in the year (see Note 5) (2.4) - - (2.4)
At 31 October 2010 2.2 0.9 1.9 5.0
Analysed as:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Included in current liabilities 1.9 1.2
Included in non-current liabilities 3.1 5.2
5.0 6.4 Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
78
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
During the second half of the year, a third party assessment was carried out of the provision held in respect of the environmental 
liabilities associated with the Chemring Energetic Devices site in Illinois, USA. After taking into account this assessment and the additional 
insurance coverage that was secured in respect of this exposure during the year, the Group has released part of the provision. This is 
expected to be utilised over a period of greater than five years.
The warranty provisions at 31 October 2010 are held by Simmel Difesa S.p.A. and represent management’s best estimate of the Group’s 
liability under six year warranties, based on past experience for defective products. 
The restructuring provisions at 31 October 2010 relate to Chemring Countermeasures Limited and Chemring EOD Limited. The provisions 
represent management’s best estimates of the costs to be incurred on the restructuring programmes during 2011.
26. Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities/(assets) recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the year.
Accelerated tax
depreciation
£m
Retirement benefit
obligations
£m
Tax losses
£m
Acquired
intangibles
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 November 2008 9.4 (3.8) (1.6) 7.9 (4.3) 7.6
Charge/(credit) to income 1.7 (0.1) - (3.9) 1.5 (0.8)
(Credit)/charge to equity (0.1) (4.0) - 0.1 (0.5) (4.5)
Amounts arising on acquisition of 
subsidiary undertakings - - (0.5) 4.3 (0.8) 3.0
Foreign exchange movements (0.1) - - - (0.3) (0.4)
At 1 November 2009 10.9 (7.9) (2.1) 8.4 (4.4) 4.9
Charge/(credit) to income 2.9 0.1 0.1 (5.9) 5.7 2.9
Charge/(credit) to equity - 1.4 - 0.9 (0.1) 2.2
Amounts arising on acquisition of 
subsidiary undertakings - - - 28.6 (2.8) 25.8
At 31 October 2010 13.8 (6.4) (2.0) 32.0 (1.6) 35.8
The Finance Act 2010, which provided for a reduction in the main rate of corporation tax from 28% to 27% effective from 1 April 2011, 
was substantively enacted on 27 July 2010. The impact of the rate reduction has been reflected in the calculation of the UK deferred tax 
liability provided at 31 October 2010. Therefore, a credit of £1.3 million has been included within the deferred tax charge for the year.
The Government has also indicated that it intends to enact future reductions in the main tax rate of 1% each year down to 24% by 
1 April 2014. The future 1% main tax rate reductions are expected to have a similar impact on the Group’s financial statements as outlined 
above, subject to the impact of other developments in the Group’s tax position which may reduce the beneficial effect of this in the 
Group’s tax rate. As the further reductions in UK Corporate tax rates have not been substantially enacted at the Balance Sheet date, this 
is considered a non-adjusting event in accordance with IAS 10 and no adjustments have been made. The impact of any further reduction 
will be taken into account at subsequent reporting dates, once the change has been substantively enacted.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy. Deferred tax balances after 
offset, for balance sheet purposes, and are analysed as follows:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Deferred tax liabilities 52.4 22.6
Deferred tax assets (16.6) (17.7)
35.8 4.9
At the Balance Sheet date the Group had unrecognised tax losses of £72.6 million (2009: £4.9 million) potentially available for offset 
against future profits in certain circumstances, with the majority arising from recent acquisitions. No deferred tax asset has been 
recognised in respect of this amount either because of the unpredictability of short term future qualifying profit streams or, as explained in 
Note 32, because the initial measurement period was incomplete as at the Balance Sheet date and so the fair values stated are provisional.
25. Provisions continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
79
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
27. Share capital
2010
£m
2009
£m
Issued and fully paid
35,588,651 (2009: 35,585,832) ordinary shares of 5p each 1.8 1.8
2,819 ordinary shares (2009: 133) were issued under the Group’s savings-related share schemes during the year. No ordinary shares 
(2009: 50,000) were issued under the Group’s executive share option scheme. 
The Company’s share capital also includes 62,500 7% cumulative preference shares of £1 each, which are all issued and fully paid-up, 
and are classified for accounting purposes within non-current liabilities. The cumulative preference shares carry an entitlement to 
a dividend at the rate of 7p per share per annum, payable in equal instalments on 30 April and 31 October each year. Holders of the 
preference shares have the right on winding-up to receive, in priority to any other classes of shares, the sum of £1 per share together 
with any arrears of dividends. 
28. Reserves
Share premium
account
£m
Special capital
reserve
£m
Hedging 
reserve
£m
Revaluation
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total
£m
At 1 November 2008 119.8 12.9 (2.6) 1.5 102.9 234.5
Ordinary shares issued 0.5 - - - - 0.5
Profit after tax for the year - - - - 70.1 70.1
Dividends paid - - - - (13.8) (13.8)
Cost of share-based payments (net of settlements) - - - - 0.9 0.9
Deferred tax on share-based payment transactions - - - - (0.3) (0.3)
Actuarial loss - - - - (14.1) (14.1)
Deferred tax credit on actuarial loss - - - - 4.0 4.0
Decrease in fair value of cash flow hedging derivatives - - (1.0) - - (1.0)
Deferred tax on decrease of cash flow hedges - - 0.2 - - 0.2
Foreign exchange translation loss - - - - (3.1) (3.1)
Transfers between reserves - - - (0.1) 0.1 -
Tax on items taken direct to reserves - - - - (0.9) (0.9)
At 1 November 2009 120.3 12.9 (3.4) 1.4 145.8 277.0
Ordinary shares issued 0.1 - - - - 0.1
Profit after tax for the year - - - - 66.7 66.7
Dividends paid - - - - (18.7) (18.7)
Cost of share-based payments (net of settlements) - - - - 0.1 0.1
Actuarial gain - - - - 4.0 4.0
Deferred tax credit on actuarial gain - - - - (1.4) (1.4)
Increase in fair value of cash flow hedging derivatives - - 1.0 - - 1.0
Deferred tax on decrease of cash flow hedges - - (0.3) - - (0.3)
Foreign exchange translation gain - - - - 0.4 0.4
Tax on items taken direct to reserves - - - - (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 October 2010 120.4 12.9 (2.7) 1.4 196.6 328.6
The share premium account, the special capital reserve and the revaluation reserve are not distributable.
Included within retained earnings are £1.1 million of retained profits (2009: £1.1 million) relating to the associated undertaking and 
£0.1 million (2009: £0.1 million) of the Company’s own shares held by the Group’s ESOP trustee and £12.4 million relating to the 
translation reserve (2009: £11.7 million). Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
80
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
29. Own shares
2010
£m
2009
£m
Balance at 1 November 2009 5.2 5.7
Acquired in the year 3.9 1.5
Issued in the year to satisfy employee share awards (1.9) (2.0)
Balance at 31 October 2010 7.2 5.2
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Chemring Group PLC purchased in the market and held by the Group to satisfy 
awards under the Group’s share-based incentive schemes (see Note 31). During the year 126,880 (2009: 78,301) ordinary shares were 
acquired, and 100,011 (2009: 115,170) ordinary shares were distributed following the vesting of awards under the Chemring Group 
Performance Share Plan. The total number of ordinary shares held in treasury at 31 October 2010 was 300,000 (2009: 273,131) with an 
average cost of £24.14 (2009: £18.17) per share. This represents 0.8% of the total issued and fully-paid ordinary share capital.
30. Obligations under non-cancellable operating leases
2010
£m
2009
£m
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in the Income Statement in the year 1.9 2.2
At the Balance Sheet date the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases, which fall due as follows:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Within one year 0.9 0.9
Two to five years 0.6 1.3
1.5 2.2
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group. Leases are negotiated for an average term of three years and rentals 
are fixed for the lease period with an option to extend for a further period at the then prevailing market rate.
31. Share-based payments
The Group operates share-based compensation arrangements to provide incentives to the Group’s senior management and other 
eligible employees.
Details of the four schemes which operated during the year are as follows:
The Chemring Group Performance Share Plan (the “PSP”)
Under the PSP, conditional awards of ordinary shares are made at nil cost. Awards vest on the third anniversary of the award date. 
The scheme commenced in March 2006.
Number of conditional shares awarded
2010 2009
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 358,630 310,743
Awarded during the year 110,808 163,057
Vested during the year (100,011) (115,170)
Lapsed during the year (21,208) -
Outstanding at the end of the year 348,219 358,630
Subject to vesting at the end of the year - -
The Group has applied a discount to the share-based awards, to reflect the anticipated achievement of the stipulated targets for each 
PSP award, based on the predicted figures within the Group’s five year plan as well as the expected number of leavers over the life of the 
PSP awards.
As there is no option element the share price is discounted based on the following assumptions:
• dividend growth at 5% per annum (2009: growth at 5% per annum);
• weighted average cost of capital 7.5% (2009: 8%).
The weighted average fair value of awards made during the year was 2,920.1p (2009: 2,004.7p) Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
81
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The Chemring 1998 Executive Share Option Scheme (the “1998 ESOS”)
Under the 1998 ESOS options were granted at a price not less than the market value of the Group’s ordinary shares on the date 
the options were granted.
2010 2009
Number of 
share options
Weighted average
exercise price
Pence
Number of 
share options
Weighted average
exercise price
Pence
Outstanding at the beginning of the year - - 50,000 973.0
Exercised during the year - - (50,000) 973.0
Outstanding at the end of the year - - - -
There were no share options exercised during the year and the average share price was nil (2009: 2,089.5p). There were no options 
outstanding at the end of the year, and this scheme has now terminated.
The compensation expense recognised in respect of share options is based on their fair value at the grant date calculated using the 
Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The Group recognised net costs of £2.3 million (2009: £2.1 million) in respect of share-based payment transactions during the year. 
The Chemring Group 2008 UK Sharesave Plan (the “UK Sharesave Plan”)
Options were granted during the year on 30 July 2010. 
Number of share options
2010 2009
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 78,036 51,175
Granted during the year 17,921 33,512
Exercised during the year (432) (133)
Lapsed during the year (5,705) (6,518)
Outstanding at the end of the year 89,820 78,036
Subject to exercise at the end of the year - -
The Chemring Group 2008 US Stock Purchase Plan (the “US Stock Purchase Plan”)
Options were granted during the year on 30 July 2010. This plan provides US employees with the opportunity to share in the future 
success of the Group and mirrors the UK Sharesave Plan subject to certain legal and tax differences due to the differing jurisdictions. 
Number of share options
2010 2009
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 16,846 6,960
Granted during the year 11,227 10,461
Exercised during the year (2,387) -
Lapsed during the year (2,815) (575)
Outstanding at the end of the year 22,871 16,846
Subject to exercise at the end of the year 1,925 - Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
82
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
32. Acquisitions
The following acquisition was completed during the year ended 31 October 2010:
Name of business acquired
Activity Date of acquisition
Proportion of
shares acquired 
%
Acquisition
consideration
including costs 
£m
Hi-Shear Technology Corporation Pyrotechnics 25 Nov 2009 100 78.7
Mecar S.A. Munitions 1 Sep 2010 100 29.6
Roke Manor Research Limited Countermeasures/Counter-IED 30 Sep 2010 100 56.7
Other acquisitions Munitions Various 19.2
Cash paid for acquisitions in the year 184.2
Net cash acquired with acquisitions (7.4)
Cash outflow from investing activities 176.8
Acquisition related costs included within cash generated from operations 6.7
Net cash outflow 183.5
The combined net assets acquired are shown below:
Book value
£m
Provisional 
fair value
adjustments
£m
Provisional 
fair value
£m
Intangible assets 13.5 98.1 111.6
Property, plant and equipment 22.6 (0.6) 22.0
Bank and cash balances 7.4 - 7.4
Debt  - regional development loan (5.0) - (5.0)
  - finance leases (0.2) (0.2) (0.4)
Advance payments (18.9) - (18.9)
Working capital 20.0 (11.6) 8.4
Deferred tax 0.2 (26.0) (25.8)
Net assets acquired 39.6 59.7 99.3
Goodwill 84.9
Total 184.2
Total cash consideration 184.2
An analysis of the net assets acquired of Hi-Shear Technology Corporation is shown below: 
Book value
£m
Provisional 
fair value
adjustments
£m
Provisional 
fair value
£m
Intangible assets - 42.3 42.3
Property, plant and equipment 1.6 - 1.6
Bank overdraft (3.1) - (3.1)
Debt  - finance leases (0.2) - (0.2)
Working capital 7.7 (5.3) 2.4
Deferred tax 0.2 (11.8) (11.6)
Net assets acquired 6.2 25.2 31.4
Goodwill 47.3
Total 78.7
Total cash consideration 78.7 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
83
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
An analysis of the net assets acquired of Mecar S.A. is shown below:
Book value
£m
Provisional 
fair value
adjustments
£m
Provisional 
fair value
£m
Intangible assets 0.7 38.7 39.4
Property, plant and equipment 7.6 (0.1) 7.5
Bank and cash balances 8.4 - 8.4
Debt  - regional development loan (5.0) - (5.0)
Advance payments (18.9) - (18.9)
Working capital 9.2 (5.6) 3.6
Deferred tax - (9.2) (9.2)
Net assets acquired 2.0 23.8 25.8
Goodwill 3.8
Total 29.6
Total cash consideration 29.6
An analysis of the net assets acquired of Roke Manor Research Limited is shown below:
Book value
£m
Provisional 
fair value
adjustments
£m
Provisional 
fair value
£m
Intangible assets 3.1 16.8 19.9
Property, plant and equipment 11.6 (0.7) 10.9
Bank and cash balances 2.1 - 2.1
Working capital 1.8 (0.2) 1.6
Deferred tax - (5.3) (5.3)
Net assets acquired 18.6 10.6 29.2
Goodwill 27.5
Total 56.7
Total cash consideration 56.7
Chemring Fuze Technology S.r.l., which was acquired by way of a cash purchase on 19 March 2010, provides fuzes to Simmel Difesa S.p.A, 
a fellow Group company. The acquisition is designed to provide synergies from vertical integration and security in the continued supply of 
fuzes. The company was acquired for £10.2 million, which resulted in goodwill of £4.9 million (subsequently revised to £2.8 million due to 
additional deferred tax assets identified within the company) and acquired intangibles of £7.2 million.
The trade and assets of Mecar USA, Inc. (now owned by Chemring Military Products, Inc.) were acquired alongside Mecar S.A. on 
1 September 2010, by way of a cash purchase of £9.0 million. This resulted in goodwill of £3.5 million and acquired intangibles of 
£2.8 million. 
The acquisitions during 2010 were completed in order to give the Group increased access into markets such as space, as well as allowing 
synergies from the combined companies. Further information can be found in the Review by the Chief Executive.
For the above acquisitions the initial measurement period was incomplete as at the Balance Sheet date and so the fair values stated are 
all provisional. The only measurement period adjustment related to the identification of additional deferred tax assets in Chemring Fuze 
Technology S.r.l. as noted above.
Adjustments from book value to provisional fair value arise principally from the application of Group accounting policies on working 
capital and the recognition of intangible assets under IFRS 3 Business Combinations and Fair Value Adjustments to Inventories, 
Receivables, Property, Plant and Equipment. Intangible assets relate principally to customer relationships and technology.
All intangible assets were recognised at their respective fair values. The residual excess of total cost over the fair value of net assets 
acquired is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements. Goodwill represents the value of synergies and assembled workforces 
acquired and future profits from new markets.
The acquisitions during the year contributed £26.5 million of revenue and £2.0 million to the Group’s profit before interest and tax for the 
period between the dates of acquisition and the Balance Sheet date.
If the acquisitions had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group revenue and profit before tax for the year would 
have been approximately £649.0 million and £92.5 million respectively. This information is not necessarily indicative of the results 
of operations that would have occurred had the operations been acquired at the start of the year, nor of the future results of the 
combined operations. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
84
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Acquisition related costs
With effect from 1 November 2009, a total of £6.7 million of costs relating to the acquisitions detailed above have been recognised in the 
Income Statement in line with IFRS 3 (Revised 2008). Previously these costs would have been capitalised as part of the investment. 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Hi-Shear Technology Corporation 2.0 -
Mecar S.A. 3.4 -
Roke Manor Research Limited 0.9 -
Other acquisitions 0.4 -
Total acquisition related costs 6.7 -
33. Pensions
Within the UK, the Group operates a defined benefit scheme (the “Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme”). In Germany, Chemring 
Defence Germany GmbH operates a defined benefit scheme (the “Chemring Defence Germany Scheme”) and in Norway, Chemring 
Nobel AS operates a defined benefit scheme (the “Chemring Nobel Scheme”). The other UK and overseas arrangements are all defined 
contribution schemes with a combined cost of £5.3 million (2009: £4.5 million). 
The Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme is a funded scheme and the assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee administered 
fund. A full actuarial valuation for the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme as at 6 April 2009 has been prepared and updated to 
31 October 2010 by a qualified actuary, using the projected unit credit method. The main assumptions for the scheme are detailed below.
The Group has given a bank guarantee to the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme of £7.2 million. The guarantee may be drawn upon in 
certain events of default by the Company. The Group has also placed £15.0 million in an escrow account to provide additional funding for 
the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme in the event of a default (see Note 20). 
The Chemring Defence Germany Scheme is an unfunded scheme. The actuarial liability has been calculated at 31 October 2010 by a 
qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. The main assumptions used were a discount rate of 5.3%, inflation rate of 
1.8% and rate of increase in deferred pensions of nil%. The net deficit of the Chemring Defence Germany Scheme was £1.3 million at 
31 October 2010 (2009: £1.2 million).
The Chemring Nobel Scheme is an unfunded scheme. The actuarial liability has been calculated at 31 October 2010 by a qualified actuary 
using the projected unit credit method. The main assumptions used were a discount rate of 3.2%, inflation rate of 2.5% and rate of increase 
in deferred pensions of 0.5%. The net deficit of the Chemring Nobel Scheme was £0.8 million at 31 October 2010 (2009: £1.5 million).
The amount recognised in the Balance Sheet in respect of the Group’s defined benefit schemes is as follows:
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Present value of funded and unfunded obligations (61.9) (63.0) (42.0)
Fair value of scheme assets 38.9 34.9 28.4
Net liability recognised in the Balance Sheet (23.0) (28.1) (13.6)
An analysis of the net liabilities recognised is as follows:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Change
£m
Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme (20.9) (25.4) 4.5
Chemring Defence Germany Pension Scheme (1.3) (1.2) (0.1)
Chemring Nobel AS Pension Scheme (0.8) (1.5) 0.7
Net liability recognised in the Balance Sheet (23.0) (28.1) 5.1
32. Acquisitions continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
85
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of the Group’s defined benefit schemes are as follows:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Amounts included within operating profit:
Current service credit/(cost) 0.6 (0.6)
Amounts included as other finance costs:
Expected return on scheme assets 2.3 1.8
Discount on scheme liabilities (3.5) (3.1)
(1.2) (1.3)
Net charge (0.6) (1.9)
Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income are as follows:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets
 (i)
1.4 4.0
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities
 (ii)
2.6 (18.1)
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 4.0 (14.1)
(i) scheme assets at the Balance Sheet date;
(ii) present value of the scheme liabilities at the Balance Sheet date.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Opening defined benefit obligations (63.0) (42.0)
Service credit/(cost) 0.6 (0.6)
Interest cost (3.5) (3.1)
Contributions from scheme members (0.6) (0.6)
Actuarial gains and losses 2.6 (18.1)
Benefits paid 2.0 1.4
Closing defined benefit obligations (61.9) (63.0)
Movements in the fair value of the schemes’ assets were as follows: 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Opening fair value of schemes’ assets 34.9 28.4
Expected return on scheme assets 2.3 1.8
Actuarial gains 1.4 4.0
Contributions from scheme members 0.6 0.6
Contributions from sponsoring companies 1.7 1.5
Benefits paid (2.0) (1.4)
38.9 34.9
The total scheme assets updated to 31 October along with the expected rates of return on assets were as follows:
2010 2009 2008
Long term rate of
return expected
£m
Long term rate of
return expected
£m
Long term rate of
return expected
£m
Equities 7.65% 27.7 8.4% 24.7 8.4% 19.9
Bonds 4.2% 11.2 4.9% 10.2 4.9% 8.5
Total fair value of assets 38.9 34.9 28.4 Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
86
The expected rates of return are determined by reference to relevant published indices. The overall expected rate of return is calculated 
by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the scheme’s investment portfolio.
History of experience gains and losses: 
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
2007
£m
2006
£m
Present value of funded and unfunded obligations (61.9) (63.0) (42.0) (48.3) (48.5)
Fair value of scheme assets 38.9 34.9 28.4 35.0 32.2
Deficit in the schemes (23.0) (28.1) (13.6) (13.3) (16.3)
Experience gains on scheme liabilities 3.8 - - - 5.5
Percentage of scheme liabilities 6.1% - - - 11.2%
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme assets 1.4 4.2 (9.9) 0.3 2.2
Percentage of scheme assets 3.6% 12.0% (34.9)% 0.9% 6.9%
Analysis of movement in the deficit in the schemes during the year: 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Opening deficit in schemes (28.1) (13.6)
Current service credit/(cost) 0.6 (0.6)
Contributions 1.7 1.5
Other finance costs (1.2) (1.3)
Actuarial gain/(loss) 4.0 (14.1)
Closing deficit in the schemes (23.0) (28.1)
The principal assumptions used in the actuarial valuation of the Staff Scheme were as follows:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Discount rate 5.35% 5.6%
Rate of increase in salaries 4.45% 4.5%
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 3.4% 3.45%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (where applicable) 3.4% 3.45%
Inflation assumption - RPI 3.45% 3.5%
    - CPI 2.75% -
Expected return on scheme assets 6.6% 7.3%
In determining the pension liabilities the Group uses mortality assumptions which are based on published mortality tables. For the Staff 
Scheme, the actuarial table currently used is SAPS Year of Birth Tables with a medium cohort and 1% underpin.
Life expectancy at 65:
2010 2009
Future pensioners  - male 88.5 88.2
    - female 91.9 91.0
Current pensioners  - male 86.6 86.3
    - female 89.8 89.1
The assumption considered to be the most significant is the discount rate adopted. If the discount rate in the scheme were to change by 
0.1% then it is predicted that the deficit in the scheme would change by approximately £1.1 million. A change in the rate of inflation by 
0.1% is predicted to change the deficit by approximately £0.6 million and a one year change to longevity assumption would change the 
deficit by approximately £1.7 million.
The Group anticipates contributions to the defined benefit schemes for the year ending 31 October 2011 will be £2.0 million 
(2010: £1.9 million).
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
33. Pensions continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
87
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
34. Contingent liabilities
During the year the Group was self insured through its captive insurance company CHG Insurance Limited, based in Guernsey. The Group 
has been self insured for the first £2.5 million of material damage and business interruption cover, subject to a maximum liability of 
£3.5 million in any one year, since 31 October 2001. Insurance cover in respect of this risk at a level over that disclosed here was placed 
with external insurers. From 1 November 2010, the Group ceased to utilise CHG Insurance Limited and has instead taken a £2.5 million 
deductible for its material damage and business interruption cover, subject to a maximum liability of £3.5 million in any one year.
The Group enters into contracts which sometimes have offset commitments. These requirements are valued at the time of the contract 
being awarded. The cost of the offsets is reviewed throughout the contract life and provided to the extent of the potential liability. 
35. Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note. 
Trading transactions
There are no trading activities between the Group and its associate.
Remuneration of key management personnel 
The remuneration of the executive directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each 
of the categories specified in IAS24 Related Party Disclosures. Further information on the remuneration of individual directors is provided 
in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 45.
The directors of the Company had no material transactions with the Company during the year other than as a result of service agreements. 
The remuneration of the executive directors is determined by the Remuneration Committee having regard to the performance of the 
individuals and market trends.
2010
£m
2009
£m
Remuneration of the executive directors 1.4 1.3
Share-based payments 0.5 0.1
Total 1.9 1.4
36. Post balance sheet events
New bank facilities
On 14 January 2011, the Group completed a refinancing of its bank facilities with a syndicate of five banks. The new Group facilities, which 
are unsecured, total £230 million, which is a £55 million increase on the previous secured facilities. In addition, the term of the facilities 
has been extended from April 2012 to April 2015.
The increase in the level of the facility and the tenure, together with the introduction of several new banks to the Group, will provide 
greater capacity and capability to support the Group’s future requirements.
Share split
The Board will be proposing a resolution to the Company’s shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting that the Company’s 
ordinary shares of 5p each be sub-divided into five new ordinary shares of 1p each. Further details can be found in the Notice of Meeting. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
88
Independent Auditors’ Report on the 
Parent Company Financial Statements
We have audited the parent company financial statements 
of Chemring Group PLC for the year ended 31 October 2010 
which comprise the Parent Company Balance Sheet, the Parent 
Company Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, the 
Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds and the 
related Notes 1 to 13. The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors 
and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, 
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent 
company financial statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the parent 
company financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
(APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the financial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the parent company’s 
affairs as at 31 October 2010;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report 
by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in 
our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Other matters
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of 
Chemring Group PLC for the year ended 31 October 2010.
Mark Mullins (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Reading, United Kingdom
18 January 2011 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
89
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Parent Company Balance Sheet (under UK GAAP)
as at 31 October 2010
Note

£m
2010
£m

£m
2009
£m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 2 0.8 0.7
Investments 3 515.6 147.2
516.4 147.9
Current assets
Debtors - due within one year 5 5.9 9.2
  - due after more than one year 5 246.9 222.8
Creditors due within one year 6 (129.4) (82.7)
Net current assets 123.4 149.3
Total assets less current liabilities 639.8 297.2
Creditors due after more than one year 7 (417.1) (160.0)
222.7 137.2
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 8 1.8 1.8
Reserves
Share premium account 9 120.4 120.3
Special capital reserve 9 12.9 12.9
Hedge reserve 9 (1.5) (2.1)
Profit and loss account 9 96.3 9.5
228.1 140.6
Own shares 10 (7.2) (5.2)
220.9 135.4
Shareholders’ funds 222.7 137.2
These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 18 January 2011.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Chemring Group PLC (registered number 86662)
D J Price
P A Rayner Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
90
Note
2010
£m
2009
£m
Profit for the financial year 9 106.1 2.1
Own shares 10 (2.0) 0.5
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges 9 0.6 (0.4)
Tax charge on items taken directly to reserves (0.1) (0.7)
Additional charge due to treasury shares (0.6) (0.7)
Total recognised gains and losses for the year 104.0 0.8
Reconciliation of Movements in 
Parent Company Shareholders’ Funds
for the year ended 31 October 2010
Note
2010
£m
2009
£m
Profit for the financial year 106.1 2.1
Dividends (18.7) (13.8)
Profit/(loss) for the year 87.4 (11.7)
Other recognised losses (0.1) (1.8)
Ordinary shares issued 8 - -
Share premium arising 9 0.1 0.5
Share-based payments (net of deferred tax) 0.1 0.6
Own shares 10 (2.0) 0.5
Net addition to/(reduction in) shareholders’ funds 85.5 (11.9)
Opening shareholders’ funds 137.2 149.1
Closing shareholders’ funds 222.7 137.2
Profit attributable to shareholders
In accordance with the concession granted under the Companies Act 2006, section 408, the profit and loss account of Chemring Group PLC 
has not been presented separately in these financial statements. There is no material difference between the results disclosed and the 
results on an unmodified historical cost basis.
During the year the Group carried out a restructuring which resulted in the transfer of ownership of Simmel Difesa S.p.A. to 
CHG Overseas Limited, a fully owned subsidiary of the Company, which generated a profit on disposal of £63.5 million. In addition, 
dividends of £45.4 million were received from the Company’s subsidiaries which, together with the profit generated from the 
restructuring, accounted for the substantial increase in profit compared to 2009.
Cash flow statement
In accordance with the exemption under FRS 1 the Company’s cash flow statement has not been presented separately in these 
financial statements.
Parent Company Statement of 
Total Recognised Gains and Losses
for the year ended 31 October 2010 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
91
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
1. Chemring Group PLC accounting policies
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
applicable United Kingdom accounting standards. The particular 
accounting policies adopted have been applied consistently 
throughout the current and previous year and are described below.
Accounting convention
The financial statements are prepared under the historical 
cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of property, 
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable 
accounting standards (UK GAAP).
Revenue recognition
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the 
principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, 
which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash 
receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to its net 
carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the 
shareholder’s rights to receive payment have been established.
Tangible fixed assets
Other than revalued land and buildings, property, plant and 
equipment are held at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
any recognised impairment loss. No depreciation is provided on 
freehold land. On other assets depreciation is provided at rates 
calculated to write down their cost or valuation to their estimated 
residual values by equal instalments over their estimated economic 
useful lives, which are considered to be:
Freehold buildings  - up to 50 years
Leasehold buildings  - the period of the lease
Plant and equipment - 10 years
Investment in Group undertakings
Investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment 
in value.
Operating leases
Operating lease rental charges are taken to the profit and loss 
account on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Provisions
A provision is recognised when the Company has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable 
that settlement will be required of an amount that can be reliably 
estimated. Long term liabilities and provisions are discounted when 
the impact is material.
Current tax
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is 
provided for at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using 
the tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantially 
enacted, by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided in full at the anticipated tax rates on 
differences arising from the inclusion of items of income and 
expenditure in tax computations in periods different from those in 
which they are included in the financial statements. Deferred tax 
is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation 
of fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell the asset. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Special capital reserve
The special capital reserve was created as part of a capital 
reduction scheme involving the cancellation of the share premium 
account which was approved by the Court in 1986, in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Foreign currencies
The functional currency of the Company is sterling. Transactions 
in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates ruling 
at the date of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the Balance Sheet date 
are translated at the rates ruling at that date. These translation 
differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
For a forward foreign exchange contract to be treated as a hedge 
the instrument must be related to actual foreign currency assets 
or liabilities or to a probable commitment. It must involve the same 
currency or similar currencies as the hedged item and must also 
reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the 
Company’s operations. Gains and losses arising on these contracts 
are deferred and recognised in the profit and loss account, or as 
adjustments to the carrying amount of fixed assets, only when 
the hedged transaction has itself been reflected in the Company’s 
financial statements.
For an interest rate swap to be treated as a hedge the instrument 
must be related to actual assets or liabilities or a probable 
commitment and must change the nature of the interest rate by 
converting a fixed rate to a variable rate or vice versa. Interest 
differentials under these swaps are recognised by adjusting new 
interest payable over the periods of the contracts.
If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, for example 
because the underlying hedged position is eliminated, the instrument 
is marked to market and any resulting profit or loss recognised at 
that time.
Pensions
The Company operates a defined benefit pension scheme. The 
defined benefit scheme is a multi-employer scheme including 
employees of other Group companies. It is not considered possible 
to allocate scheme assets and liabilities between the various 
companies and accordingly the scheme is accounted for as though 
it were a defined contribution scheme. The amount charged to 
the profit and loss account is the contribution payable in the year. 
Differences between amounts payable and actually paid are shown 
as accruals or prepayments in the Balance Sheet.
Share-based compensation
For grants made under the Company’s share-based remuneration 
schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value of options awarded 
at the time of grant are charged to the profit and loss account. 
The valuation of the options utilises a methodology based on the 
Black-Scholes model. Further details can be found within Note 3 of 
the Group’s financial statements.
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements  Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
92
2. Tangible assets
Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Total 
£m
Cost £m £m £m
At 1 November 2009 0.4 1.0 1.4
Additions - 0.3 0.3
At 31 October 2010 0.4 1.3 1.7
Depreciation
At 1 November 2009 - 0.7 0.7
Charge for the year 0.1 0.1 0.2
At 31 October 2010 0.1 0.8 0.9
Net book value
At 31 October 2010 0.3 0.5 0.8
At 31 October 2009 0.4 0.3 0.7
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 October 2010 (2009: nil).
Land and buildings represent leasehold improvements.
3. Investments
Shares in
subsidiary
undertakings
£m
Loans to 
subsidiary
undertakings
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 November 2009 160.1 6.3 166.4
Acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings 86.4 - 86.4
Capital contribution to subsidiary undertakings 352.9 - 352.9
Transfer to another Group company* (70.5) - (70.5)
Foreign exchange (0.4) - (0.4)
At 31 October 2010 528.5 6.3 534.8
Provision for impairment
At 1 November 2009 and 31 October 2010 19.2 - 19.2
Net book value
At 31 October 2010 509.3 6.3 515.6
At 31 October 2009 140.9 6.3 147.2
*  The  Company transferred ownership of Simmel Difesa S.p.A. on 1 April 2010 to CHG Overseas Limited, a fully owned subsidiary of the company. A profit on disposal of
£63.5 million has been recognised in the year.
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements 
  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
93
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
4. Investments in Group undertakings
The trading subsidiary undertakings held at 31 October 2010 were: 
Trading subsidiary undertaking
Country of incorporation 
(or registration) 
and operation
% of issued ordinary
share capital controlled
by Chemring Group PLC Activity
Chemring Countermeasures Ltd England 100 Countermeasures 
Chemring Defence UK Ltd England 100 Pyrotechnics/Counter-IED
Chemring Marine Ltd England 100 Pyrotechnics
*Chemring EOD Ltd England 100 Counter-IED
Chemring Prime Contracts Ltd England 100 Munitions
Roke Manor Research Ltd England 100 Countermeasures/Counter-IED
Chemring Energetics UK Ltd Scotland 100 Munitions/Pyrotechnics/Counter-IED
*Chemring Defence Germany GmbH Germany 100 Pyrotechnics/Counter-IED
*Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. USA 100 Countermeasures
*Kilgore Flares Company LLC USA 100 Countermeasures
*Technical Ordnance, Inc. USA 100 Munitions/Pyrotechnics
*Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. USA 100 Munitions/Pyrotechnics
*Chemring Ordnance, Inc. USA 100 Munitions/Pyrotechnics
*Chemring Military Products, Inc. USA 100 Munitions
*Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. USA 100 Counter-IED
*Hi-Shear Technology Corporation USA 100 Pyrotechnics
*Chemring Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100 Countermeasures/Munitions/
Pyrotechnics/Counter-IED
*Chemring Defence Spain S.L. Spain 100 Pyrotechnics
*Simmel Difesa S.p.A. Italy 100 Pyrotechnics/Munitions/Counter-IED
*Chemring Fuze Technology S.r.l. Italy 100 Munitions
*Chemring Nobel AS Norway 100 Munitions
Mecar S.A. Belgium 100 Munitions
Associated undertaking
CIRRA S.A. France 49 Countermeasures
* Investments held by a subsidiary company
The directors consider that the carrying value of the investments does not exceed their fair value.
5. Debtors
Amounts due within one year:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Group relief receivable 0.6 4.9
Deferred tax asset (see Note 11) 1.2 1.4
Other debtors 3.1 2.9
Prepayments and accrued income 1.0 -
5.9 9.2
Amounts due after more than one year: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 246.9 222.8
A financial instrument asset of £1.9 million (2009: £0.4 million) is recognised within other debtors in respect of the fair value of interest 
rate swaps (see Note 24 of the Group financial statements). The directors consider that the carrying value of the debtors approximates to 
their fair value. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
94
6. Creditors due within one year
2010
£m
2009
£m
Bank overdrafts 58.2 36.5
Bank loans 53.4 32.9
Trade creditors 1.6 2.1
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 5.1 1.4
Other creditors 1.8 1.5
Other taxation and Social Security 0.7 0.3
Accruals and deferred income 8.6 8.0
129.4 82.7
A financial instrument liability of £1.6 million (2009: £1.1 million) is recognised in other creditors in respect of the fair value of derivative 
financial instruments (see Note 24 of the Group financial statements).
Bank loans and overdrafts held with Lloyds Banking Group during the year were secured by a debenture over the assets of certain of the 
Group’s subsidiaries and were also subject to cross guarantees between subsidiaries. Further information on the borrowing facilities can 
be found in Note 21 of the Group financial statements.
7. Creditors due after more than one year
2010
£m
2009
£m
Derivative financial instruments (see Note 24 of the Group financial statements) 7.3 3.7
Medium term loan 26.6 53.6
Loan notes 261.2 88.5
Preference shares (62,500 shares of £1 each) 0.1 0.1
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 121.9 14.1
417.1 160.0
The cumulative preference shares carry an entitlement to a dividend at the rate of 7p per share per annum, payable in equal instalments 
on 30 April and 31 October each year. Holders of the preference shares have the right on winding-up to receive, in priority to any other 
classes of shares, the sum of £1 per share together with any arrears of dividends.
2010
£m
2009
£m
Borrowings falling due within:
One year 111.6 69.4
One to two years 26.6 36.0
Two to five years - 20.8
After five years 261.2 88.5
399.4 214.7
The interest incurred on the above borrowings is detailed within Note 21 of the Group financial statements. The medium term loans are 
denominated in Euro and Norwegian Kroner. All short term borrowings incur interest at 4.9% (2009: 4.9%).
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
95
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
8. Called-up share capital
2010
£m
2009
£m
Issued, allotted and fully paid
35,588,651 (2009: 35,585,832) ordinary shares of 5p each 1.8 1.8
2,819 ordinary shares (2009: 133) were issued under the Group’s savings-related share schemes during the year. No ordinary shares 
(2009: 50,000) were issued under the Group’s executive share option scheme. 
The preference shares are presented as a liability (see Note 7) and accordingly are excluded from called-up share capital in the 
Balance Sheet.
Share-based incentive schemes
The following awards and options granted under the Group’s share-based incentive schemes were outstanding at 31 October 2010:
The Chemring Group Performance Share Plan
Date of award
Number of ordinary 
shares under award
Vesting price 
per share 
£
Date when awards 
will vest
23 Jan 2008 91,371 Nil 23 Jan 2011
21 Jan 2009 137,934 Nil 21 Jan 2012
24 Jun 2009 11,179 Nil 24 Jun 2012
20 Jan 2010 102,620 Nil 20 Jan 2013
18 Mar 2010 5,115 Nil 18 Mar 2013
The Chemring Group 2008 UK Sharesave Plan
Date of grant
Number of ordinary 
shares under option
Exercise price 
per share 
£
Dates between which 
options may be exercised
1 Aug 2008 18,836 18.68 1 Oct 2011 – 1 Apr 2012
1 Aug 2008 23,239 18.68 1 Oct 2013 – 1 Apr 2014
31 Jul 2009 18,049 17.22 1 Oct 2012 – 1 Apr 2013
31 Jul 2009 11,775 17.22 1 Oct 2014 – 1 Apr 2015
30 Jul 2010 9,373 23.92 1 Oct 2013 – 1 Apr 2014
30 Jul 2010 8,548 23.92 1 Oct 2015 – 1 Apr 2016
The Chemring Group 2008 US Stock Purchase Plan
Date of grant
Number of ordinary 
shares under option
Exercise price 
per share 
£
Dates between which 
options may be exercised
16 Sep 2008 1,925 18.49 16 Sep 2010 – 15 Dec 2010
31 Jul 2009 9,765 17.12 31 Jul 2011 – 30 Oct 2011
30 Jul 2010 11,181 24.94 30 Jul 2012 – 29 Oct 2012
Full details of the schemes are disclosed in Note 31 of the Group financial statements. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
96
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements 
9. Reserves
Share premium
account
£m
Special capital
reserve
£m
Hedging reserve
£m
Profit and loss
account
£m
Total
£m
At 1 November 2009 120.3 12.9 (2.1) 9.5 140.6
Ordinary shares issued 0.1 - - - 0.1
Profit for the year - - - 106.1 106.1
Decrease in fair value of hedging reserve - - 0.6 (0.6) -
Dividends paid - - - (18.7) (18.7)
Other recognised losses - - - (0.1) (0.1)
Cost of share-based payments - - - 0.1 0.1
At 31 October 2010 120.4 12.9 (1.5) 96.3 228.1
The share premium account and special capital reserve are not distributable. The Company generated a profit for the financial year of 
£106.1 million (2009: £2.1 million). Dividends from subsidiary undertakings of £45.4 million (2009: £1.6 million) were received in the year.
The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 October 2010 of 42p per share will, if approved, absorb approximately 
£14.8 million of shareholders’ funds. The dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and accordingly 
has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. 
10. Own shares
2010
£m
2009
£m
Balance at 1 November 2009 5.2 5.7
Acquired in the year 3.9 1.5
Issued in the year to satisfy employee share awards (1.9) (2.0)
Balance at 31 October 2010 7.2 5.2
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Chemring Group PLC purchased in the market and held by the Group to satisfy 
awards under the Group’s share-based incentive schemes (see Note 31 of the Group financial statements). During the year 126,880 
(2009: 78,301) ordinary shares were acquired, and 100,011 (2009: 115,170) ordinary shares were distributed following the vesting of 
awards under the Chemring Group Performance Share Plan. The total number of ordinary shares held in treasury at 31 October 2010 was 
300,000 (2009: 273,131) with an average rate of £24.14 (2009: £18.17) per share. This represents 0.8% of the total issued and fully-paid 
ordinary share capital.
11. Deferred tax
2010
£m
2009
£m
Movements in deferred assets are as follows:
At 1 November 2009 (1.4) (1.5)
Charge to profit and loss account 0.2 0.1
At 31 October 2010 (1.2) (1.4)
The amount provided represents:
Other timing differences (1.2) (1.4) Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
97
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
12. Staff costs
2010
Number
2009
Number
The average monthly number of employees (including executive directors) was:
Total 34 31
2010
£m
2009
£m
The costs incurred in respect of these employees were:
Wages and salaries 3.3 3.2
Social security costs 0.4 0.3
Other pension costs 0.2 0.6
3.9 4.1
Disclosures in respect of directors’ emoluments can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 45 of the Group 
financial statements.
13. Post balance sheet events
New bank facilities
On 14 January 2011, the Group completed a refinancing of its bank facilities with a syndicate of five banks. The new Group facilities, which 
are unsecured, total £230 million, which is a £55 million increase on the previous secured facilities. In addition, the term of the facilities 
has been extended from April 2012 to April 2015.
The increase in the level of the facility and the tenure, together with the introduction of several new banks to the Group, will provide 
greater capacity and capability to support the Group’s future requirements.
Share split
The Board will be proposing a resolution to the Company’s shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting that the Company’s 
ordinary shares of 5p each be sub-divided into five new ordinary shares of 1p each. Further details can be found in the Notice of Meeting. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
98
Find out more online
For more information about Chemring Group PLC, please visit  
www.chemring.co.uk where you can access the latest 
shareholder information:
• Current share price
• Key financial information
• Financial calendar
• Shareholder services and notices
• Corporate governance
• RSS news feeds
• Results and presentations
• Analysts’ forecasts
• Regulatory news
Chemring Group PLC’s Annual Report and Accounts 2010 can 
also be viewed online at www.chemring.co.uk/investors in a 
choice of formats:
• Fully-functional micro-site
• Downloadable PDF 
You can also view and download the Notice for our 
Annual General Meeting.
Other information
Glossary of terms
BES Battlefield effects simulation 
EBITDA  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation
EOD Explosive ordnance disposal
FRED Forced Rapid Entry Device
GPR Ground Penetrating Radar
HMDS Husky Mounted Detection System 
IDIQ Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity
IED Improvised explosive device
IM Insensitive munitions
IR Infra-red
JCAST Joint Combined Aircraft Systems Tester
JSF Joint Strike Fighter 
LAP Load, assemble and pack
LAV Light Armoured Vehicle
MECS Multiple Effects Cartridge System
MRAP Mine Resistant Ambush Protected
NASA National Aeronautics and Space Administration
NATO North Atlantic Treaty Organization
OEM Original equipment manufacturer
PAC-3 Patriot Advanced Capability 3
PEMBS Portable explosive minefield breaching systems
RF Radio frequency Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
99
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Notes Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
100 Notes Strong sales growth at NIITEK
NIITEK had an outstanding year, 
increasing its revenue by 124% to 
£102 million, driven by the urgent 
demand from the US and Canadian 
Armies for the Husky Mounted Detection 
System (HMDS) ground penetrating 
radars for counter-IED operations.
For more information see page 6
Growth in the Middle East
Our non-NATO customers represent the 
largest opportunity for growth over the 
next five years. In 2010, our revenues 
from Middle East and Far East customers 
grew by over 60% and we believe that 
future growth in these regions should 
be substantial.
For more information see page 5
Acquisition of Roke
In September we completed the acquisition 
of Roke, a leading UK developer of 
advanced sensors, signal processing, 
communications and network solutions. 
The acquisition provides the Group with a 
very broad range of capabilities and market 
access across our business segments.
For more information see page 4
© Chemring Group PLC 2011
The information in this document is the property of Chemring Group PLC and may not be copied or communicated to a third party 
or used for any purpose other than that for which it is supplied without the express written consent of Chemring Group PLC. 
This information is given in good faith based upon the latest information available to Chemring Group PLC; no warranty or 
representation is given concerning such information, which must not be taken as establishing any contractual or other commitment 
binding upon Chemring Group PLC or any of its subsidiary or associated companies.
Printed on FSC certified Chorus Lux Silk; a paper bleached using a chlorine free process. 100% of the inks 
used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of 
any waste associated with this production will be recycled. The printer is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral® 
Company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001.
A world-leading defence company
Chemring is a global group that specialises in the 
manufacture of energetic material products and 
countermeasures. We provide solutions for highly 
demanding customer requirements in defence, 
security and safety markets. We are a world-leading 
defence company involved in advanced development 
programmes in the UK, USA, Europe and Australia.
Our existing businesses provide strong organic 
growth and we are continuing our acquisition strategy 
in the fast-growing energetics sector.
Highlights
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
101
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Chemring Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Chemring Group PLC
Chemring House, 1500 Parkway, Whiteley, 
Fareham, Hampshire PO15 7AF, United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1489 881880
Fax: +44 (0)1489 881123
www.chemring.co.uk
Chemring Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Developing international markets Delivering global protection
