 www.chemring.co.uk
Chemring Group PLC
Chemring House
1500 Parkway
Whiteley
Fareham
Hampshire PO15 7AF
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0)1489 881880
Email: info@chemring.co.uk
Chemring Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chemring Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Identifying growth in new markets  Continued growth at NIITEK
NIITEK increased revenue by 24% to 
£126.9 million, driven by high level of 
demand for spares and support for the 
200+ HMDS systems in service with the 
US and Canadian Armies. In addition, 
77 HMDS systems were delivered to the 
US Army.
For more information see page 6
Growth in non-NATO countries
Sales to non-NATO countries grew by 
81% in 2011 and now represent 29% of 
the Group revenues. We believe that our 
non-NATO business will grow to 40% 
of Group revenues, driven by economic 
growth and modernisation programmes 
in the Middle East, Far East and 
South America.
For more information see page 6
Acquisition of Chemring 
Detection Systems
In July 2011, the Group completed the 
acquisition of the Detection Systems 
operations of General Dynamics 
Armament and Technical Products. 
This acquisition brings a leading US 
capability in chemical and biological 
threat detection systems.
For more information see page 8
© Chemring Group PLC 2012
The information in this document is the property of Chemring Group PLC and may not be copied or communicated to a third party
or used for any purpose other than that for which it is supplied without the express written consent of Chemring Group PLC.
This information is given in good faith based upon the latest information available to Chemring Group PLC; no warranty or 
representation is given concerning such information, which must not be taken as establishing any contractual or other commitment 
binding upon Chemring Group PLC or any of its subsidiary or associated companies.
Printed on FSC certiﬁ ed Chorus Lux Silk; a paper bleached using a chlorine free process. 100% of the inks 
used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of 
any waste associated with this production will be recycled. The printer is an EMAS certiﬁ ed CarbonNeutral® 
Company and its Environmental Management System is certiﬁ ed to ISO14001.
A world-leading defence company
Chemring is a global group that specialises in the 
manufacture of energetic material products and 
countermeasures. We provide solutions for highly 
demanding customer requirements in defence, 
security and safety markets. We are a world-leading 
defence company involved in advanced development 
programmes in the UK, USA, Europe and Australia.
With strong growth in threat detection systems, 
electronics now represents 40% of our revenues. 
Our long-term strategy is to maintain a balance between 
high technology electronics and energetic products.
Highlights
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
105
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
1
Business overview Other information Financial statements Corporate governance
2011 Financial highlights
Revenue
£745.3m +25%
£745.3m
£503.9m
£354.2m
£597.1m 2010
2009
2008
2011
Underlying proﬁ t before tax*
£125.6m +6%
2010
2009
2008
2011 £125.6m
£105.5m
**
£74.2m
£118.7m
**
Underlying earnings per ordinary share*
52.1p +5%
52.1p
43.5p
**
32.0p
**
49.8p
**
2010
2009
2008
2011
*  Before acquisition related costs, restructuring and incident costs, provision release, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and gain/(loss) on fair value 
movements on derivatives totalling £34.8 million (2010: £29.6 million)
**  Restated ﬁ gures for prior years to reﬂ ect the subdivision of shares (see Note 13) as well as the reclassiﬁ cation of certain items from underlying costs to non-underlying 
costs (see Note 6)
Contents
Business overview
Chemring at a glance 2
Statement by the Chairman 4
Review by the Chief Executive 6
Our strategy 12
Market sectors
• Counter-IED 14
• Countermeasures 16
• Pyrotechnics 18
• Munitions 20
Review by the Finance Director 22
Key performance indicators  26
Principal risks and uncertainties 27
Corporate Responsibility Review 30
Corporate governance
Directors and corporate information 34
Directors’ Report 36 
Directors’ Remuneration Report 39
Statement on Corporate Governance  48
Independent Auditors’ Report to the 
Members of Chemring Group PLC 53
Financial statements
Consolidated Income Statement 54
Consolidated Statement of  
Comprehensive Income 54
Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity 55
Consolidated Balance Sheet 56
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 57
Notes to the Consolidated  
Cash Flow Statement  58
Notes to the Group  
Financial Statements 59
Independent Auditors’ Report on the  
Parent Company Financial Statements 95
Parent Company Balance Sheet  
(under UK GAAP) 96
Parent Company Statement of  
Total Recognised Gains and Losses  97
Reconciliation of Movements 
in Shareholders’ Funds 97
Notes to the Parent Company  
Financial Statements 98
Other information
Glossary of terms 104  Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
2
Counter-IED
Chemring is the leading supplier of 
vehicle–mounted ground penetrating 
radar (GPR) detection systems, 
chemical and biological detection 
systems, and counter-IED electronic 
countermeasures. We manufacture 
portable mineﬁ eld breaching systems 
and a range of detonators, initiators and 
disruptors for demolition and explosive 
ordnance disposal. 
• Leader in vehicle-mounted 
IED detection
• Leader in vehicle-mounted chemical 
and biological detection systems
• Supplier of disruptors, demolition 
stores and mine-ﬁ eld breaching 
systems to US and European forces
Revenue
£168m
Proportion of
Group revenue
22%
For more information see page 14
Chemring at a glance
Pyrotechnics
Chemring is a leading developer 
and manufacturer of pyrotechnics 
for space, safety systems, military 
training, screening, signalling and 
illumination applications.
• Leading supplier of low shock satellite 
separation products and NASA 
standard initiators
• Largest supplier of pyromechanisms 
for aircraft egress systems
• Signiﬁ cant supplier of training 
products to the US Army and other 
NATO forces
• Growing demand for advanced 
pyrotechnic rounds and payloads
Revenue
£140m
Proportion of
Group revenue
19%
For more information see page 18
Countermeasures
Chemring is the world leader in the 
design, development and manufacture 
of advanced expendable countermeasures 
for protecting air, sea and land 
platforms. We are also a leading 
developer of man-portable electronic 
warfare equipment.
• 50% share of expendable decoy market
• Largest supplier of airborne 
decoy countermeasures to the 
US Department of Defense and 
the UK Ministry of Defence
• Technology leader in spectral, 
special material and thrusted ﬂ ares 
for ﬁ xed-wing and rotary aircraft
• Supplier of RESOLVE man-portable 
electronic warfare equipment to UK 
and other military customers
Revenue
£201m
Proportion of
Group revenue
27%
For more information see page 16
Chemring operates
in four market sectors:
Counter-IED, Countermeasures, 
Pyrotechnics and Munitions. 
All our products are technically 
demanding, requiring high reliability 
and integrity, and the highest level 
of safety in manufacture and use. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
3
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Group revenue by sector 
2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
£167.6m
£114.9m
£139.9m
£170.0m
£200.8m
£196.3m
£237.0 m
£115.9m
Counter-IED
Countermeasures
Pyrotechnics
Munitions
Munitions
Chemring operates as a prime contractor 
in certain market niches and, as a 
component supplier, offers a unique 
capability in supplying energetic 
materials, components and subsystems.
• Market leader in naval ammunition
• Market leader in 90mm ammunition for 
light armoured vehicles
• Manufacturer of critical components for 
PAC-3 anti-ballistic missile system
• Leader in materials development for 
insensitive munitions
Revenue
£237m
Proportion of
Group revenue
32%
For more information see page 20 Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
4
two potential acquisitions. We went ahead 
with the purchase of Chemring Detection 
Systems but did not, in the end, proceed 
with the other potential opportunity, as 
further investigation indicated that it would 
not generate sufﬁ cient value. In the light 
of this, the Board has reviewed the balance 
sheet to determine the appropriate levels 
of debt and gearing for the Group in the 
future. We have taken a cautious view in the 
light of the world’s economic and ﬁ nancial 
uncertainties and will continue reducing 
debt levels when appropriate. However, we 
have also concluded that we should consider 
returning surplus capital to shareholders 
whilst maintaining the strength of the 
balance sheet. Accordingly, we will seek 
approval at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting to renew our authority to buy back 
shares, when it is considered appropriate, 
over the course of the next year. We would 
only expect to exercise this authority for a 
buyback of up to £50 million of shares.
The Board also considered its long term 
dividend policy as part of this balance sheet 
review. For many years, the Group has 
adopted a policy of maintaining dividend 
cover at around four times. With our strong 
annual cash generation, we believe it would 
be appropriate to reduce the cover to three 
times over the next year. As part of this 
move, the proposed total dividend for 2011 
will be covered 3.5 times by underlying after 
tax earnings* , compared with 4.2 times 
last year.
Group strategy
Over a number of years, the Group 
has pursued a strategy of combining 
signiﬁ cant organic growth from its existing 
businesses with a successful programme of 
acquisitions which have contributed further 
to the Group’s growth. This has enabled us 
to develop new products and technologies, 
and utilise our market positions to exploit 
opportunities. The acquisitions have 
usually been relatively modest in size, 
but have demonstrated a strong potential 
for expansion. Whilst there are none 
Statement by the Chairman
The Group has pursued a strategy of combining 
signiﬁ cant organic growth from its existing businesses 
with a successful programme of acquisitions which have 
contributed further to the Group’s growth.
Highlights
• Revenue up 25% to £745.3 million
• Underlying operating proﬁ t* up 3% to 
£141.8 million
• Underlying proﬁ t before tax* up 6% to 
£125.6 million
• Underlying earnings per share* up 5% 
at 52.1p
• Proﬁ t before tax £90.8 million
• Basic earnings per share 39.8p
• Total dividend per share for the year up 
25% at 14.8p
Key information
Underlying proﬁ t before tax*
£125.6m
+6%
Underlying earnings per share*
52.1p
+5%
Dividend per ordinary share
14.8p
+25%
*  Before non-underlying items (see Note 6)
Chemring produced another year of growth 
in proﬁ ts and earnings, although both were 
affected in the last month by a slippage of 
deliveries into the current ﬁ nancial year. 
Revenue was £745.3 million, an increase 
of 25%, and this generated an underlying 
operating proﬁ t* of £141.8 million, up 3%. 
Underlying proﬁ t before tax* increased by 
6% to £125.6 million, producing underlying 
earnings per share* of 52.1p, 5% above 
last year. The Board is recommending a 
ﬁ nal dividend of 10.8p per share which 
will provide a full year dividend of 14.8p, 
an increase of 25% over last year.
The order intake for the Group was 
£819.1 million, which was slightly lower 
than last year. We saw strong order book 
growth in our Counter-IED and Munitions 
businesses, which was offset by a downturn 
in orders received in the Countermeasures 
and Pyrotechnics divisions. These two 
divisions suffered from reduced customer 
demand, which was driven, in the main, 
by government ﬁ scal and budgetary 
controls. The closing order book reached 
£878.3 million, which was 9% above last year.
In July the Group acquired the Detection 
Systems business of General Dynamics 
Armament and Technical Products for a 
total cash consideration of £56.1 million. 
The business, which is now operating as 
Chemring Detection Systems, Inc., is a US 
leader in chemical and biological threat 
detection and has an advanced capability in 
stand-off detection of improvised explosive 
devices. The acquisition greatly enhances 
the capabilities of our Counter-IED division, 
and has already made a good contribution 
to the Group’s earnings.
Balance sheet, cash ﬂ ow and debt
The Group generated an underlying 
operating cash ﬂ ow* of £124.6 million, 
which was 88% of underlying operating 
proﬁ t* . At the end of the year, net debt 
was £262.7 million compared with 
£307.5 million last year.
In April 2011, approximately £112 million 
of new equity was raised in order to fund  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
5
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Prospects
During the last year, many governments 
have struggled with increasing deﬁ cits and 
lower economic growth. This has affected 
defence procurement, leading to volume 
reductions and delays. The continuing 
problems of the Eurozone and the impact 
of possible sequestration in the US indicate 
that our traditional markets will not be any 
easier this year. We continue to pursue 
our policy of reducing our dependence on 
these markets, and will actively seek more 
business from elsewhere. It is encouraging 
to note that 44% of today’s order book 
emanates from these non-NATO markets, 
compared with 33% at the same time 
last year. We see further good growth 
prospects in these markets and will pursue 
the opportunities they offer. I am conﬁ dent 
that we have the products, the management 
and technological skills to achieve our 
objectives and provide the foundation for 
steady growth.
P C F Hickson
Chairman
24 January 2012
planned at the current time, we operate in 
markets where consolidation may become 
attractive, and we will therefore continue 
to consider opportunities when they arise 
and pursue them only if there is a clear 
opportunity to enhance shareholder value. 
We see long term growth coming from our 
existing businesses but there will be times 
when acquisitions may be appropriate to 
supplement and enhance our portfolio.
Board of directors
During the year, there have been some 
changes in the composition of the Board. 
Two new directors were appointed during 
2011. Sarah Ellard, who has been head 
of the Group’s legal affairs for fourteen 
years, joined the Board in October as 
Legal Director. On 1 November 2011, 
Vanda Murray, who has a number of 
non-executive appointments, was appointed 
to the Board as a non-executive director. 
I welcome them both to the Board.
David Evans, who has been a director since 
1988, ﬁ rst as Chief Executive and for the 
last seven years as a non-executive director, 
has indicated his intention to retire from 
the Board at the Annual General Meeting 
in March. During his time with the Group, 
David has made a major contribution to its 
development, and I would like to take the 
opportunity to thank him on behalf of the 
Board and wish him well in the future.
Dividends
In line with the revised long term dividend 
policy outlined above, the Board is 
recommending a ﬁ nal dividend for the 
year of 10.8p (2010: 8.4p). With the interim 
dividend paid of 4p (2010: 3.4p), this gives a 
total dividend for 2011 of 14.8p (2010: 11.8p), 
an increase of 25%. The dividend is covered 
3.5 times by underlying after tax earnings* , 
and with a solid balance sheet and cash 
ﬂ ow, the Group remains well positioned to 
increase its return to shareholders. Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
6
Review by the Chief Executive
The Group delivered another year of good growth. 
Revenue from continuing operations grew by 25% 
to a record £745.3 million.
Group results
The Group delivered another year of good 
growth. This was achieved despite the 
disruption within the US defence market 
caused by the extended Continuing 
Resolution position that delayed approval 
of the US government budget until 
the middle of April 2011. Revenue from 
continuing operations grew by 25% to 
a record £745.3 million. Approximately 
one third of this growth was organic
#
, 
with strong contributions from both our 
Counter-IED and Munitions operations. 
There were excellent performances from 
NIITEK, which delivered a further 77 ground 
penetrating radars for the Husky Mounted 
Detection Systems (HMDS) to the US Army 
for counter-IED operations, and from our 
European ammunition prime contractors, 
Mecar and Simmel, which both substantially 
expanded their Middle East exports. The 
Group revenue continued to be second-half 
weighted, with £415.5 million of revenue 
(56%) generated in the second six months 
of the year, a little lower than the average 
phasing achieved over the last ﬁ ve years.
It was disappointing however that, as a 
result of unexpected last-minute delays 
in customer approvals of product lot 
acceptance, £37 million of revenue 
associated with ﬁ nished product 
manufactured in September and October 
slipped out of the last week of October into 
the ﬁ rst few months of the current ﬁ nancial 
year. The largest element of the delay (36%) 
was associated with the ﬁ nal negotiation 
on the 64 system HMDS contract awarded 
to NIITEK in January 2011. All of the HMDS 
systems and spares had been manufactured 
and were ready for delivery but negotiations 
on the ﬁ nal contract pricing under open 
book requirements took many months 
longer than expected and were ﬁ nally 
completed in November 2011, just after 
the end of the ﬁ nancial year. The revenue 
achieved in 2011 was, therefore, about 5% 
lower than the Board’s expectations.
The order intake for the Group during the 
year was £819.1 million, 1% lower than 
the previous year, reﬂ ecting a balance 
between strong growth in two of our 
divisions and contraction in the other two. 
Our Counter-IED division generated 
£207.4 million of order intake, up 16% on 
the previous year, of which £46.1 million 
relates to the successful capture of the 
contract to manufacture the MK7 MOD 2 
Anti-Personnel Obstacle Breaching System 
(APOBS) for the US Army and Marine 
Corps. Our Munitions division also had 
an excellent year, with an increase of 
42% in order intake to a new record of 
£349.4 million, £244.3 million of which 
was awarded by Middle Eastern customers. 
Our Countermeasures division, however, 
saw a contraction of 29% in its order 
intake to £154.9 million, mainly driven 
by budgetary control actions in the US, 
particularly at Kilgore where our backlog 
levels are high. Order intake in our 
Pyrotechnics division was also lower than 
expected, down 41% to £107.4 million, with 
UK and US customers deferring annual 
purchases as part of their austerity and 
deﬁ cit reduction programmes.
The closing order book for the Group, 
therefore, reached £878.3 million, an 
increase of 9% on the previous year, 
although substantially lower than it was 
at the time of our third quarter interim 
management statement on 30 August 2011. 
Timing of orders from our Middle East 
customers and the impact on US orders 
from another year of Continuing Resolution 
budget management by the US government 
were the principal contributors. The 9% 
increase does, however, still provide a solid 
foundation for the growth expected in 2012.
The composition of the order book changed 
substantially during 2011, with a signiﬁ cant 
shift to non-NATO customers. Orders 
from NATO customers now make up only 
58% of the order book, with the Middle 
East reaching 27%. Order intake from UK 
customers has been disappointing, and our 
UK order book dropped 30% to only 13% of 
the Group total at the year end.
Our Counter-IED division had another 
excellent year, achieving a 46% increase in 
revenue to a record level of £167.6 million, 
reﬂ ecting strong growth in various 
detection and disable sub-segments of 
the markets. NIITEK had an outstanding 
year, increasing its revenue by 24% to 
Operational highlights
• Excellent performance from NIITEK, 
which grew by 24% and delivered a 
further 77 ground penetrating radars 
for the Husky Mounted Detection 
Systems (HMDS) to the US Army
• Our Munitions business had a 
tremendous year, with revenue up 
104% to a new record of £237.0 million 
and growing demand for our products 
from a variety of Middle East customers
• Acquisition of Chemring Detection 
Systems adds the US leader in chemical 
and biological threat detection and 
brings advanced capability in the 
stand-off detection of improvised 
explosive devices
• Our total expenditure on research 
and development grew by 74% to 
£59.6 million, which represents 8% of 
the total Group revenue
Key information
Year end order book
£878.3m
+9%
Revenue
£745.3m
+25%
Number of employees
4,679
+9%
*  Before non-underlying items (see Note 6)
#
  Organic growth at constant US dollar excludes 
growth from contracts and customers acquired 
with Roke, Mecar and Chemring Detection Systems Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
7
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
£126.9 million, driven by high level of 
demand for spares and support for the 
200+ HMDS systems in service with the 
US and Canadian Armies on peacekeeping 
operations. Chemring Ordnance also had a 
successful breakthrough into the “defeat” 
part of the US counter-IED market by 
winning the multi-year competition for 
the manufacture of the APOBS for the 
US Army and Marine Corps. This system is 
designed to safely clear a footpath through 
anti-personnel mines and multi-strand wire 
obstacles. Production under the contract, 
which is worth up to $150 million over the 
next four years, will start in the second half 
of 2012.
Our Munitions division also had a 
tremendous year, with revenue up 104% 
to a new record of £237.0 million and 
growing demand for our products from 
a variety of Middle East customers. Our 
two prime contract activities grew very 
strongly, with sales of our ammunition for 
Light Armoured Vehicles (LAVs) up 198% 
to £158.2 million and our naval ammunition 
revenues up 122% to £20.4 million. Our 
prime contract business now represents 
75% of this division, compared to 53% in 
the previous year.
Our Countermeasures division delivered 
a steady performance, achieving a 3% 
increase in revenue to £200.8 million, 
including the full year contribution from 
Roke, which was acquired in 2010. The 
expendable countermeasures revenues, 
however, dropped by 17%, with a 29% 
reduction in demand from our principal 
customers for decoys used to protect 
helicopter and transport aircraft, in 
anticipation of the planned withdrawal from 
Afghanistan in 2014. Two upgraded naval 
countermeasure rounds completed their 
development and qualiﬁ cation programmes 
during the year and production deliveries 
are expected to contribute to growth from 
2012 onwards.
Our Pyrotechnics division generated 
revenue of £139.9 million, 18% lower than 
last year, with a large number of annual 
orders placed at reduced volumes, or 
deferred completely, as European and 
US governments reduced expenditure as 
part of their deﬁ cit control programmes. 
However, we did successfully capture 
the competitive, multi-year contracts for 
the improved submarine distress signals 
for both the UK and US Navy customers. 
These will put us in a strong position to 
address the global market, where the demand 
for diesel submarines continues to grow.
The underlying operating margin* achieved 
by the Group was 19%, lower than the 23% 
achieved last year, and took the underlying 
operating proﬁ t* to £141.8 million, which 
was 3% higher than the previous year. 
Half of this change in margin is attributable 
to recent acquisitions, which are generating 
lower margins than the continuing 
businesses. The other half came from 
margin deterioration in two of our divisions. 
The operating margin in the Counter-IED 
division reduced to 19%, with Chemring 
Detection Systems contributing four 
months of post-acquisition revenue at 15% 
margin. The largest reduction, however, 
was generated at NIITEK, where the very 
late cost auditing of the HMDS contracts 
disallowed any gains from risk mitigation 
and efﬁ ciency performance. Operating 
margins in our Countermeasures division 
reduced to 23%, with Roke contributing a 
full year of post-acquisition revenue at 10% 
margin and our expendable decoys business 
providing a 27% margin. This was a lower 
margin than last year (2010: 30%) because 
of lower decoy production volumes at 
Alloy Surfaces, in the US, and at Chemring 
Countermeasures, in the UK. Operating 
margins in the Pyrotechnics and Munitions 
divisions were similar to last year at 23% 
and 17% respectively.
Health and safety
It is with great regret and sadness that I 
have to report that one of our employees, 
who was injured during the September 2010 
incident at our subsidiary Kilgore Flares in 
Tennessee, was taken back into hospital 
during 2011 and subsequently died. We have 
supported her and her family through very 
difﬁ cult times and continue to extend our 
support and deepest sympathies to her 
family and friends.
As Chief Executive, I am fully aware of our 
responsibility to ensure that every single 
one of our employees returns safely home 
at the end of every working day, and we 
continue to invest heavily in safety-related 
plant and equipment improvements to 
reduce the exposure of our employees to 
danger. During the year, we spent more than 
£7 million speciﬁ cally targeted at further 
improvements in safety.
With the exception of the businesses 
acquired in late 2010 and 2011, all Chemring 
sites are certiﬁ ed to the environmental 
management system ISO14001 and the 
health and safety management system 
OHSAS18001. The outstanding sites are 
scheduled for certiﬁ cation during 2012. 
In addition to this external validation and 
surveillance, we continue to use recognised 
consultancies to support our audit 
programme to test the compliance and 
quality of our systems.
I am pleased to report that we had no major 
incidents in the year.
Our lost time incident rate (calculated 
using the US OSHA rules) reported in 
the last Annual Report was 1.06 per 100 
employees. When the historical data for the 
September 2010 acquisitions was included 
the rate increased to 1.67, and we worked 
hard during the year to drive the rate 
downwards and closed at 1.32. Eight of our 
sixteen businesses (six last year) reported 
no lost days in the year, which is an 
excellent achievement.
The Board recognises that the highest 
levels of safety are required to protect 
our employees, our customers and the 
general public. We believe that all injuries 
and incidents are preventable and we 
will continue to strengthen our long-term 
strategies to ensure that the Group 
improves its safety performance and 
reduces risk. Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
8
Review by the Chief Executive
continued
I would like to extend my personal thanks to all 
members of staff for their personal achievements 
and hard work during the year.
Acquisitions
The Group made only one acquisition during 
the year. In July 2011, the Group completed 
the acquisition of the Detection Systems 
operations and certain related assets of 
General Dynamics Armament and Technical 
Products, a subsidiary of General Dynamics 
Corporation, for a cash consideration of 
$90 million (£56 million).
The business, now renamed Chemring 
Detection Systems, Inc. (CDS), is based in 
Charlotte, North Carolina. It is a US leader 
in chemical and biological threat detection 
and has advanced capability in the stand-off 
detection of improvised explosive devices. 
CDS is the incumbent supplier for two major 
US military vehicle-mounted detection 
programmes: the Joint Biological Point 
Detection System (JBPDS) and the Joint 
Service Lightweight Stand-off Chemical 
Agent Detector (JSLSCAD). In addition, 
its products include a stand-off IED and 
explosives detector and the Juno hand-held 
chemical detector.
The acquisition substantially enhances 
our Counter-IED business activities with 
leading-edge US technology for biological, 
chemical and stand-off explosive detection. 
It provides a complementary capability 
to our existing subsidiaries, NIITEK and 
Chemring EOD, and will help us expand our 
growing global market position.
During the summer, we were in discussions 
with a third party regarding a signiﬁ cant 
acquisition that would have made a major 
impact to our market position. However, 
the restructuring required to deliver the 
full beneﬁ t was considerable, and we 
felt that the vendor’s valuation of the 
business was too high. Although we are no 
longer pursuing this opportunity, the core 
strategy of the Group remains focused on 
organic growth that is augmented by small 
bolt-on acquisitions.
Electronics
In line with the Group’s strategy, electronics, 
including electronic countermeasures 
and IED detection systems, is of growing 
importance across our four market 
segments. With the acquisition of Chemring 
Detection Systems and Roke, we have 
signiﬁ cantly enhanced our capabilities in 
strategic emphasis we continue to place 
on product innovation. Our long-term 
partnership with Cranﬁ eld University 
continues to expand, and we now have 
sixteen programmes running across areas of 
interest relevant to all four of our divisions.
Roke now represents our largest 
concentration of research and development 
expenditure, with around 50% of the total 
funding directed at electronic rather than 
energetic products and technology.
Capital investment
Capital investment in the year grew by 19% 
to £48.6 million, which represents nearly 
7% of Group revenue. £19.7 million of the 
investment relates to the continuing build 
of the new countermeasures manufacturing 
facilities at Salisbury in the UK and at Lara 
in Australia. The UK facility has not yet 
been completed and has been delayed by 
technical issues with the safety critical 
software. These have recently been 
resolved, and initial production is scheduled 
for the end of 2012. Better progress has 
been made on the facility in Australia, and 
the ﬁ rst locally manufactured ﬂ ares were 
produced in 2011. Low rate initial production 
is scheduled for March 2012, but it will take 
at least another six months to work up to 
full volume manufacture.
A second principal area of investment 
was associated with the development 
of our Chemring Energetics facility in 
Scotland, where we spent £4.7 million 
on the completion of four facilities: 
the primary explosives facility for the 
manufacture of detonators and initiators; 
the plastic explosives pressing facility for 
the manufacture of demolition stores; 
the Meccanite expansion facility for the 
manufacture of propellants; and the high 
explosive pressing facility for warhead 
manufacture. All of these facilities provide 
new manufacturing capabilities to the site 
and the capacity to meet the substantial 
growth in revenue that is expected in 
the future.
Staff and employees
At the end of 2011, the Group employed a 
total of 4,679 people, 396 (9%) higher than 
the previous year end, although 109 of them 
were associated with our latest acquisition, 
electronic systems design, development and 
integration. In 2011, electronics contributed 
40% of the Group revenue, and this is 
expected to grow to 50% over the next ﬁ ve 
years. These electronic capabilities are in 
ﬁ ve niche areas:
• Initiation – delays, sequencing and 
safety/arming
• Detection – radar and infra-red 
stand-off technologies
• Electronic warfare – interception of 
communications and electronic attack
• Electronic countermeasures – active 
jamming systems
• Network protection – legal intercept 
and anomaly detection
Roke has become a strategic European 
centre-of-excellence for product and 
technology development of electronic 
systems. It is heavily engaged in the system 
engineering and software development of 
our CENTURION countermeasure launcher; 
it is designing low-cost, active-jamming 
technology for our air and naval expendable 
markets; and it has completed the design of 
our new SPLINTER hand-held mine detector.
In 2011, Roke was given the Queens 
Award for Innovation for its RESOLVE 
modular, man-portable, electronic 
warfare system for the exploitation and 
suppression of hostile communication 
equipment. RESOLVE is now in service with 
the UK Ministry of Defence and a number 
of customers in the global export market. 
Roke has produced and demonstrated a 
vehicle-mounted RESOLVE capability, and 
there is strong interest from Europe and the 
Middle East in vehicle-mounted surveillance 
systems for dedicated electronic 
surveillance applications.
Research and development
Our strategy for future growth continues to 
rely on technology leadership and the rapid 
development of new products that meet 
the changing needs of our customers and 
displace those of our competitors. Our total 
expenditure on research and development 
grew by 74% to £59.6 million, which 
represents 8% of the total Group revenue. 
Internally-funded research and development 
grew by 56% to £21.2 million, reﬂ ecting the  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
9
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Chemring Detection Systems. In addition, 
the year end ﬁ gure included a signiﬁ cant 
number of short-term contractors engaged 
within our UK operations during the last 
quarter of the ﬁ nancial year. Excluding 
these contractors reduces the year-on-year 
growth to around 4%. 1,798 employees 
(38%) are located within the UK and 2,047 
employees (44%) are located in the US.
I would like to extend my personal thanks 
to all members of staff for their personal 
achievements and hard work during the 
year. The Board understands how important 
our employees are to the success of this 
fast-changing business.
Future prospects
Market conditions
During 2011, the defence market faced 
greater uncertainty than in previous 
years, with the Eurozone crisis and 
European government deﬁ cit reduction 
programmes continuing to have a 
negative impact on defence budgets. 
Most of our European customers continue 
to delay their annual procurements by 
six months, and are looking for reduced 
volumes of consumables to save money. 
The UK Ministry of Defence, in particular, 
has substantially reduced its procurement 
of ﬂ ares and decoys for the protection of 
helicopters and transport aircraft.
The UK defence market continues to be 
challenging, with a contracting budget, 
signiﬁ cant changes to procurement 
structures, and substantial reductions 
in personnel. The impact of last year’s 
Strategic Defence & Security Review has 
gradually become clear but the structural 
reforms proposed by Lord Levene are only 
just starting to get underway. Of particular 
importance to the defence industry is the 
restructuring of the acquisition organisation, 
which may cause a signiﬁ cant disruption to 
the future procurement process whilst it is 
being implemented. A number of options for 
reform have been submitted to Ministers but 
a decision is unlikely to be announced until 
the middle of 2012.
However, it is the US market that has been 
far more challenging during the past year. 
No agreement was reached between the 
President and Congress on the size and 
constitution of the FY2011 budget, and 
Continuing Resolution funding of the 
US government continued all the way 
through the ﬁ rst half of our ﬁ nancial year. 
This mechanism maintains the funding for 
the government employees but prohibits 
new programme starts or increases in 
funding compared to the previous year. 
The Pentagon was hesitant to release funds 
for procurement until the full year budget 
was known, as they were concerned about 
the number of programmes that would have 
to be adjusted. The majority of our annual 
contracts were delayed into the second 
half of the year, reducing the opportunity 
for early deliveries from these contracts. 
Revenues from our US businesses were, 
therefore, heavily second-half weighted 
and greatly increased the risk of slippage 
into 2012.
The US government started its 2012 
ﬁ nancial year with further Continuing 
Resolutions, and there was a real threat 
that a twelve month Continuing Resolution 
might be adopted. This would have had a 
signiﬁ cant effect on the timing of annual 
contract placement, resulting in a stronger 
than usual second-half bias to our revenues, 
and a risk that sales would slip past October 
2012. However, in late December, the US 
FY2012 base defence budget was approved 
at $520 billion, and the Overseas Contingent 
Operations (OCO) budget, which funds 
peacekeeping operations in Afghanistan, 
was set at $115 billion. The funding contains 
a substantial year-on-year reduction in 
expendable countermeasures that will 
affect the Group, but this appears to be 
offset by opportunities in counter-IED 
and chemical/biological threat detection, 
and by strong growth in important 
niche product areas, such as demolition 
stores, pyrotechnics and medium 
calibre ammunition.
Details of the US FY2013 budget 
should be announced in February 2012. 
US Department of Defense guidance has 
focused on a base budget of $523 billion 
and OCO funding of $83 billion, which is 
a 5% reduction on this year. However, 
President Obama recently announced that 
he was looking for $263 billion of cuts 
over the next ﬁ ve years against the FY2011 
baseline, which equates to a base budget of 
$517 billion. If implemented, the US budget 
will reduce by 6% in FY2013 and then 
return to slow growth of a few per cent each 
year thereafter.
However, the 2011 Budget Control Act, 
passed in the US in August 2011, contains 
a “sequestration” clause that will 
automatically reduce US defence spending 
by a further $54.7 billion per year and 
threatens to reduce the FY2013 base budget 
to $465 billion. This will be very difﬁ cult to 
achieve without cancellation of important 
major programmes and may lead to serious 
cutbacks in all aspects of procurement. 
Although Congress has started to make 
plans to repeal the sequestration clause, 
the President has threatened to veto 
any attempts by Congress to block 
the automatic spending cuts. There is, 
therefore, considerable continuing 
uncertainty about the US market.
Non-NATO markets, on the other hand, 
remain buoyant with more attractive 
economic growth rates and lower ﬁ scal 
deﬁ cits. The International Monetary 
Fund
1
 forecasts that real Gross Domestic 
Product in India/Asia will grow by 7.5%, 
Latin America by 3.9% and in the Middle 
East by 3.6%. Defence spending in these 
regions continues to strengthen and 
they represent a very attractive market 
for the Group. Customers are looking to 
upgrade their products to near-NATO 
standards, to develop local manufacturing, 
and to eventually develop an indigenous 
design capability. The Group is ﬁ nding 
considerable opportunities in all four of 
our market segments, but the specialist 
capabilities that we have in direct ﬁ re 
ammunition, in particular, are proving to 
be a signiﬁ cant attraction.
Counter-IED
Our HMDS ground penetrating radar 
continues to operate successfully during 
counter-IED operations in Afghanistan and 
has saved the lives of many US and coalition 
soldiers. During 2011, NIITEK delivered 
77 HMDS systems to the US Army taking 
the number of systems supplied to over 
240. Negotiations with the US Army for a 
multi-year sustainment contract, covering 
systems, spares and support and potentially 
1
 World Economic Outlook, September 2011 published by the International Monetary Fund Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
10
Review by the Chief Executive
continued
The Board anticipates that organic growth will 
continue at a similar rate to that achieved in 2011.
worth in excess of $500 million, has been 
underway for many months, and the 
contract is expected to be received by the 
end of the second quarter. This will support 
the operation of the HMDS ﬂ eet until 
withdrawal from Afghanistan in 2015.
Good progress has also been made in 
developing the export market for HMDS. 
Agreement has been reached with MBDA 
Italy to provide the Italian Army with a 
modiﬁ ed ground penetrating radar system 
to go on the Calife pushed trailer and the 
IVECO VTMM multi-role tactical vehicle. 
Full development will be completed in 2012 
and production is expected in 2012 and 
2013. The Australian Defence Force has 
also selected HMDS for its counter-IED 
operations, and is looking to procure 
systems through the US Foreign Military 
Sales channels.
The US Army’s acquisition of a 
next-generation IED detection system, 
involving more advanced multi-sensor 
technology and data fusion, will probably 
take place in 2013, and they have conﬁ rmed 
that they expect to purchase in excess of 
500 systems over a ﬁ ve year period.
In 2012, the US Army will take the Milestone C 
decision to start full rate production 
of the nuclear, biological and chemical 
reconnaissance vehicle – Stryker Suite. An 
additional 100 vehicles will be built in 2012 
and a further 50 in 2013. This will boost 
demand for both the biological (JBPDS) 
and chemical detection systems (JSLSCAD) 
supplied by our new subsidiary, Chemring 
Detection Systems, and will generate good 
growth over the next few years.
The Group has also continued work on a 
customer-funded development programme 
for stand-off explosives detection. Three 
systems were manufactured and delivered 
for early user testing during 2011. Additional 
work is expected in 2012 to continue early 
user testing, to complete a production 
readiness phase of the current generation 
system, and to work on a next generation 
system for vehicle-mounted applications 
with on-the-move capability.
The qualiﬁ cation of our range of insensitive 
demolition stores is making good progress, 
and considerable export interest has been 
and the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (JSF), will 
dominate the market over the next ten to 
ﬁ fteen year period. A technical problem 
with the dispenser, manufactured by a 
third party, has delayed volume production 
of the Typhoon units, and we are still in 
low rate initial production with the JSF 
ﬂ are set. With the approval of the US 
government, Chemring Australia has been 
identiﬁ ed as a second source supplier for 
JSF countermeasures and, after the US 
Department of Defense qualiﬁ es production 
in Australia, will compete with Kilgore for a 
share of the long-term production.
Another major area of growth over the 
next few years is naval countermeasures. 
These are designed to protect ships 
against incoming missiles, particularly in 
circumstances when rapid-ﬁ re gun systems 
cannot be used, such as in shallow water 
next to other friendly vessels. During 2011, 
the Group completed development of a 
range of new payloads to meet the changing 
threat and is now starting to manufacture 
these next generation products. The Group 
has also purchased, from Lockheed Martin, 
the manufacturing assets and intellectual 
property for certain legacy US naval 
rounds. Our new designs and the detailed 
knowledge of current US in-service rounds 
will position us strongly for a new US Navy 
procurement programme which will run 
from 2013 onwards.
The Group has also made good progress 
in the development of its new trainable 
launcher system, Centurion. A series of 
land-based ﬁ ring demonstrations were 
successfully undertaken last year, and 
a fully operational prototype is now in 
manufacture. Discussions with the Royal 
Navy on sea trials are underway, and the 
Italian Navy has recently expressed strong 
interest in undertaking an extended sea 
trial of the system on one of their San 
Antonio Landing Platform Dock vessels. 
Considerable interest has been shown by 
a number of US, Middle East, Far East and 
South American customers.
The order book for our Countermeasures 
division decreased by 12% to £234.0 million 
during 2011. Although this is normally a 
reliable lead indicator of trends over the 
next twelve months, it does not take into 
generated, both within and outside NATO, 
by our SABREX ﬂ exible linear cutting 
charge. The global market for products 
used to “defeat” the threat remains 
steady at £300 million, and represents 
an important area for future growth. The 
award of the multi-year APOBS contract to 
Chemring Ordnance by the US Army was 
a strong endorsement of the investment 
in technology and facilities. Technology 
transfer of our next generation demolition 
stores to the US should help capture a 
sizable share of the global market.
The order book for our Counter-IED division 
was £127.1 million at the end of the year, 
28% higher than the previous year. 
The growth has been driven by the APOBS 
contract. The HMDS multi-year sustainment 
contract has taken many months to 
negotiate, and the delay is reﬂ ected in the 
reducing order book. The delayed timing 
of the new contract will impact revenues 
at NIITEK in 2012. However, revenue from 
Chemring Detection Systems will offset this 
reduction, and overall, the Board expects 
good growth from this segment in 2012.
Countermeasures
In Afghanistan, the total NATO deployment 
is still 130,000 troops. However, coalition 
forces have announced their intention to 
withdraw their troops by 2015, starting with 
a reduction of nearly 40,000 by the end of 
2012. In anticipation of this withdrawal and, 
under pressure from budget constraints, 
most of our customers have cut back 
signiﬁ cantly on the purchase of ﬂ ares 
and decoys needed for the protection 
of helicopters and transport aircraft. A 
combination of reductions in the volumes 
ordered and delays in order placement is 
quickly reducing the current stock piles. 
Further reductions are anticipated in 2012, 
which will take production on some decoys 
down to a minimum sustainable level.
The major growth in expendable 
countermeasures over the next ﬁ ve years 
will, however, be associated with the 
supply of ﬂ ares and countermeasures to 
protect fast jets. These are principally 
used in operations against sophisticated 
opponents, where war stocks need to be in 
place for high volume usage during intense 
battle conditions. Two aircraft, Typhoon  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
11
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
account the high level of backlog at Kilgore 
or the delays in order placement caused by 
the US government’s Continuing Resolution 
funding. Strong growth in deliveries of 
decoys for combat aircraft programmes 
are, therefore, expected to compensate for 
the reduction in demand for those used on 
helicopters and transport aircraft, and a 
stable level of revenue can be expected for 
this segment.
Pyrotechnics
There continues to be strong interest 
in illuminating payloads for use in 
peacekeeping operations. We have 
developed a family of “white light” and 
“black light” payloads for the full range of 
mortar calibres, large calibre ammunition 
and for low signature, hand-held rockets 
that can be used by individual soldiers. 
These are all expected to enter into volume 
manufacture during 2012 and 2013.
We have also completed the initial 
development of a payload for the 
replacement of white phosphorous in 
smoke/screening payloads. A 120mm 
spotting round has completed development 
and will be qualiﬁ ed by the US Army in 2012 
for sale to Middle East customers under the 
Foreign Military Sales programme.
The overall order book for the Pyrotechnics 
division reduced by 16% to £145.5 million, 
with large reductions in the smoke, 
illumination and training parts of the market. 
However, the Pyrotechnics order book has 
a much shorter coverage, and the opening 
order book does not adequately characterise 
the scale of in-for-out orders that make up 
the full year performance. Lower demand 
for training and aircraft safety products 
is expected in 2012 but further growth in 
revenues for smoke, illumination and space 
products means that revenues approaching 
2010 levels can be expected.
Munitions
The naval ammunition market continues to 
grow, principally driven by the number of 
76mm guns ﬁ tted to new naval ships. There 
is considerable interest in our products from 
Middle East and South American customers. 
A live-ﬁ ring demonstration is planned in 
Italy to demonstrate its capability against 
pirate boats or fast attack craft to a number 
of Middle East customers.
The Middle East and South America are also 
growing markets for our 90mm, 105mm and 
115mm ammunition. In particular, the CMI 
90mm Mk8 gun is often ﬁ tted to the LAVs 
prevalent in these regions, and offers the 
Group a substantial opportunity to develop 
new customer relationships and markets. 
Discussions are also underway with the 
Brazilian government for the supply of 
90mm ammunition for the 400 new IVECO 
LAVs which they are planning to acquire 
over the next ten years.
The Group is under contract with General 
Dynamics Land Systems, Canada for the 
supply of vehicle-based 120mm mortar 
systems for sale under a US Foreign Military 
Sales programme. System deliveries 
will commence in 2012 and will involve 
production testing by the US Army during 
2012 and 2013, using Mecar supplied 
ammunition. New inspection requirements 
from the US government have delayed 
the expected delivery programme and the 
majority of deliveries are now scheduled 
for 2013. Annual ammunition contracts are 
then expected.
The order book for the Munitions division 
grew by 39% to £371.7 million in 2011, with 
strong growth in both the land and naval 
prime contract markets. Growth in 2012 
revenues is expected to be good, albeit at 
a lower rate than would be implied by the 
increase in the opening order book.
Non-NATO growth
The Group sells to a wide variety of military 
customers in 80 countries around the 
world. Over the last four years, revenues 
from non-NATO customers have grown 
by 360% and now represent 29% of 
the Group revenue. Economic growth 
and lower ﬁ scal deﬁ cits offer attractive 
markets for companies willing to quickly 
develop new products for their speciﬁ c 
needs, to establish local entities, transfer 
the technology for local manufacture, and 
develop over the long term the capability 
to incrementally upgrade products for 
the future.
We believe that we are well-positioned to 
develop our non-NATO business to 40% 
of Group revenue over the next ﬁ ve to ten 
years. Our niche ammunition products have 
provided the foundation for negotiations in 
a number of countries but interest is also 
high in our countermeasures, counter-IED 
and electronics technologies.
During 2011, we announced that we had 
reached agreement with the Hinduja Group 
to form a joint venture in India. Initially, 
the focus has been on a marketing joint 
venture, which will be pursuing a number of 
major opportunities during 2012. However, 
we expect to obtain Indian government 
approval for a defence manufacturing joint 
venture in due course, which will address 
the full range of the Group’s products and 
technologies. Similar discussions with 
potential joint venture partners are taking 
place in Saudi Arabia and Brazil, and the 
Group expects to announce more detailed 
information later in the year.
Outlook
Over the next two years, the NATO market 
will face considerable uncertainties and 
revenues will be constrained by government 
deﬁ cit reduction actions. Non-NATO 
markets, on the other hand, still offer good 
growth prospects but the timescales for 
successful implementation often take some 
time. Over the short term, therefore, the 
Board anticipates that organic growth will 
continue at a similar rate to that achieved 
in 2011.
In the medium term, there are good 
opportunities in all four of our business 
segments. The Group focuses on short 
term developments of products that 
match important and constantly changing 
customer needs. This agility and its wide 
breadth of technology allows the Group to 
target a number of well-funded, specialist 
niches and growth in market share at the 
expense of weaker competitors.
D J Price
Chief Executive
24 January 2012 Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
12
Group strategy
The Group strategy is focused on our four market segments – 
Counter-IED, Countermeasures, Pyrotechnics and Munitions. 
With the growing importance of electronics throughout our 
business, our future vision statement includes a broader deﬁ nition 
of “protection systems”, including electronic countermeasures 
and IED detection systems.
Our core strategy over the next ﬁ ve years is to develop and build 
on our key core competencies:
• Energetic materials – We will focus on products where we can 
exploit our extensive knowledge and expertise in explosive, 
pyrotechnic and pyrophoric materials. We will address 
niche, highly proﬁ table markets with signiﬁ cant value-added 
manufacture/assembly where barriers to entry are high. We will 
exploit the commonality of technology and design expertise to 
generate a broad centre-of-expertise that can be maintained 
over the long-term future.
• Electronics for sensors, electronic warfare and network 
protection – A growing proportion of our business will be 
based on high integrity, high-speed electronics for detecting 
and analysing threats as well as enabling a timely response. 
Many of these electronic systems will be network-based.
Organic strategy
Our organic growth strategy is based on two elements:
• Geographic expansion outside NATO
• New product development
Our geographic strategy is to establish a strong local 
manufacturing presence in the world’s leading defence spending 
countries and to export vigorously around the world. We have 
businesses in the US and Europe’s top ﬁ ve spending countries 
(UK, Germany, France, Italy and Spain), and export to over 80 
countries around the world. As the emphasis of global defence 
spending migrates from NATO to the Middle East, Far East and 
South America, we will develop our presence in these regions. 
We are in the process of establishing joint ventures in India, 
Saudi Arabia and Brazil.
Top 15 defence spending countries
0
150
100
$ billion
50
USA
China
UK
France
Russia
Japan
Saudi Arabia
Germany
India
Italy
Brazil
South Korea
Australia
Canada
Turkey
698
Joint venture targets
Our strategy
Vision
Our vision is to be the leading producer of 
protection systems and energetic products 
for the global defence market
Counter-IED Countermeasures
Establish technology 
leadership
• Become the world leader in 
IED, chemical and biological 
threat detection
• Maintain technological lead 
in ground penetrating radar 
and counter-IED jamming
• Become world leader in 
IED neutralisation and 
demolition stores
Maintain market share
• Exploit lead in special 
material, spectral and 
thrusted ﬂ ares
• Develop a market lead in 
naval launchers and decoys
• Become the world 
leader in dismounted 
and vehicle electronic 
warfare equipment
• Establish niche position 
in network protection
Pyrotechnics Munitions
Displace weak competitors
• Establish undisputed 
world lead
• Develop new products to 
transform user operations
Develop niche prime position
• Become a leading prime 
contractor for non-NATO
• Become a supplier of 
choice for NATO primes
Maintain
market
share
Countermeasures Counter-IED
Establish
technology
leadership
Displace
weak
competitors
Pyrotechnics
Develop
niche prime
positions
Munitions
Our strategy is to develop and build on our 
core competencies in energetic materials and 
electronics for sensors, electronic warfare 
and network protection. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
13
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Secondly, we will maintain a strong focus on developing 
world-leading products. As a growing proportion of our business 
is based on advanced electronics, we have developed parallel 
energetics and electronics technology strategies.
Our energetics technology strategy is focused on materials 
technology and applications engineering in ﬁ ve key areas:
• Explosive materials – We will develop and optimise material 
formulations to improve their performance and safety.
• Warheads – We will build a lead in missile warheads and will offer 
insensitive munitions (IM) variants of our ammunition products.
• Propellants – We will develop a new generation of low 
vulnerability ammunition (LOVA) propellants and will build a 
capability in composite rocket motors.
• Pyrotechnic countermeasures and illumination – We will maintain 
our world lead in air countermeasures and will develop a full 
range of spectrally-optimised pyrotechnic payloads.
• Pyrotechnic obscurants – We will lead development of safer, 
multi-spectral smokes and less-lethal technologies.
Our electronics technology strategy builds on our leadership in 
key niches:
• Initiation – Is the interface to energetic products, and we will 
extend the application of electronics to improve the performance 
of our munitions and pyrotechnic products.
• Detection – We will maintain our lead in stand-off threat 
detection technologies and will enhance these with sensor fusion 
and advanced algorithm development.
• Electronic warfare (EW) – We will extend our lead in man-portable 
electronic intelligence equipment, and will develop 
vehicle-mounted variants of our products.
• Electronic countermeasures – We will establish a world lead 
in active off-board decoys, and will develop a step-change in 
portable counter-IED jammers.
• Network protection – We will apply our leading capability in fast 
electronic hardware to lawful intercept applications and the 
protection of wirelessly networked military systems.
We will maintain an underpinning technology base to enable a cycle 
of rapid product development and technology insertion through 
internal research and partnerships with universities, research 
institutions and technology companies. Where we cannot quickly 
develop critical capabilities and technologies organically, we will 
supplement this with targeted acquisitions.
Acquisition strategy
Acquisitions have been an important element of the recent growth 
of the business. The successful completion of eighteen acquisitions 
over the last six years has broadened our capabilities, diversiﬁ ed 
our segmental and geographic activities, and has directly 
contributed to the overall growth of the Group.
Revenue growth 2005–2011
0
700
800
600
500
£ million
400
300
200
100
2005 Organic
growth
Acquisitive 
growth*
Foreign
exchange
2011
*Acquisitive growth comprises
Full year revenue of prior year acquisitions
Revenue contribution of businesses acquired in the year
Our strategy for acquisitions is to continue to target opportunities 
which add capability, technology and market access. We will exploit 
synergies from such acquisitions by creating centres-of-excellence, 
investing in new products and selling our products though our 
worldwide channels to market.
We intend to maintain a balance of acquisition investment across all 
our segments, markets and technologies.
Our acquisition investments over the last six years can be analysed 
as follows:
Total investment on acquisitions 2005–2011 c.£480 million
Pyrotechnics 39%
Munitions 31%
Counter-IED 24%
Countermeasures 6%
UK 22%
Europe 23%
USA 55%
Geographical spread Business activity
Electronic warfare
Ground troops using the Queen’s Award 
winning RESOLVE system Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
14
for operational maintenance in-theatre, 
generating an increase in revenue of 24% 
compared with the previous year.
In the middle of the year, a system upgrade 
was introduced to all new HMDS radar 
systems. This upgrade provided greater 
sensitivity and a higher ground clearance 
mount to minimise panel damage during 
transit. A remote-controlled version of 
the Husky system was also deployed to 
Afghanistan and is currently undergoing 
operational evaluation.
NIITEK also won a contract from the 
US Army for a Talon-based GPR system 
with an embedded metal detector coil. 
The system has successfully completed 
US trials and safety testing. It is expected 
to start operational evaluation during 
2012 and production should commence 
shortly thereafter.
Roke has been funded by the UK Ministry 
of Defence to develop a family of new 
hand-held detector systems, called 
SPLINTER. An early prototype system was 
deployed to Afghanistan during the year 
and the results achieved were described 
as “very encouraging”. A fully functional 
product has recently been completed and a 
rapid qualiﬁ cation programme is expected 
in 2012.
The acquisition of Chemring Detection 
Systems provides the Group with a 
world-leading capability in chemical and 
biological detection, as it is the incumbent 
supplier for two major US military 
vehicle-mounted detection programmes: 
the Joint Biological Point Detection System 
(JBPDS) and the Joint Service Lightweight 
Stand-off Chemical Agent Detector 
(JSLSCAD). Chemring Detection Systems 
continued its customer-funded development 
programme during the year and moved 
on to Phase 3 of the Biological Detection 
System Upgrade Program. These updates 
will be implemented into new production 
systems, as well as retroﬁ tted into existing 
ﬁ eld units.
Chemring Detection Systems also launched 
a commercially available variant of the 
JSLSCAD. This product provides ground 
platforms, ﬁ xed sites and shipboard 
installations with state-of-the-art remote 
Counter – IED
Highlights in 2011
•  Revenue 46% higher than 2010
•  NIITEK delivered 77 complete HMDS 
and range of spares, increasing its 
revenue by 24%
• Acquisition of Chemring Detection 
Systems provides world-leading 
capability in chemical and 
biological detection
•  Chemring Ordnance won US 
production contract for Anti-Personnel 
Obstacle Breaching System (APOBS), 
worth up to $150 million
•  Closing order book for Counter-IED 
was £127 million, up 28% on 2010
Key information
Orders
£207m
Revenue
£168m
Operating proﬁ t
£32m
Operating margin
19%
Strategy
Our strategy is to become the world leader 
in the global counter-IED (improvised 
explosive device) market with high 
technology products to detect, disable and 
defeat the threat posed by IEDs, as well 
as chemical and biological agents. We will 
invest in advanced sensor technology 
for the detection of explosive, biological, 
chemical and nuclear threats, as well as 
the data fusion necessary to deliver high 
reliability detection performance. We will 
also develop portable wide-band adaptive 
jamming capabilities to disable remotely 
controlled devices, and will develop and 
qualify advanced technology disruptors and 
the full range of safer demolition stores to 
defeat them.
Analysis
The global market for counter-IED 
equipment is estimated to be £3 billion. 
Our revenue in 2011 was £168 million, 
46% higher than the previous year, which 
equates to a market share of 6%. The 
Group’s strongest focus is on detection 
systems, and revenue from this part of the 
business increased by 51% to £149 million, 
representing a 25% market share of this key 
high technology area. Our success has been 
driven by the demand from the US Army for 
highly effective ground penetrating radar 
(GPR). In July, the acquisition of Chemring 
Detection Systems was completed and, 
in the last four months of the ﬁ nancial 
year, the business contributed £15 million 
of revenue.
The closing order book for Counter-IED 
was £127 million, up 28% on 2010, and a 
clear indicator of continued revenue growth 
in 2012.
Activities during the year
Detect
The detection of IEDs continued to 
dominate the activities of our Counter-IED 
division during the year, with continued 
growth at NIITEK in support of the Husky 
Mounted Detection System (HMDS) ground 
penetrating radars currently deployed in 
Afghanistan. During 2011, NIITEK delivered 
77 complete radar systems, over 2,700 
radar panels, and a wide variety of spares 
The closing order book for Counter-IED was £127 million, 
up 28% on 2010, and a clear indicator of continued revenue 
growth in 2012. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
15
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Chemical/biological detection
JUNO hand held detector in use
chemical agent detection capabilities. 
A recent test demonstrated its ability to 
detect stimulants out to a full 5km range. 
A ﬁ rst export contract has been received 
from a Far East country, and strong interest 
has been expressed by a number of Middle 
East customers.
Chemring Detection Systems also continued 
work in 2011 on a customer-funded 
development for the Lightguard stand-off 
explosives detector. Three systems were 
fabricated and delivered for early user 
testing.  Additional work is expected in 
2012 to continue user testing, to complete a 
production readiness phase of the current 
generation system, and to work on a next 
generation system for vehicle-mounted 
applications with on-the-move capability.
Defeat
In June 2011, our US subsidiary Chemring 
Ordnance won a highly competitive contract 
to produce the MK7 MOD 2 Anti-Personnel 
Obstacle Breaching System (APOBS) for the 
US Army and Marine Corps. The contract 
is for three years and is worth up to 
$150 million. The APOBS is a self-contained, 
one-shot, expendable linear demolition 
charge, which can be transported and 
deployed by a two person team. The 
system is capable of safely clearing a 
footpath through anti-personnel mines and 
multi-strand wire obstacles. This contract 
award expands our position in the US 
demolition stores market. A new production 
facility, to assemble the product, is now 
nearing completion.
This year has seen the successful 
development and qualiﬁ cation of a new 
generation of Bangalore Torpedo under 
contract from the UK Ministry of Defence. 
Although the concept of the Bangalore 
Torpedo is over 100 years old, our 
development has produced a substantial 
improvement in performance whilst 
ensuring that it meets the criteria for an 
insensitive munition.
The development of the SABREX ﬂ exible 
linear cutting charge has continued 
throughout the year with ﬁ nal design, 
to meet the underwater performance 
requirements, being achieved in the 
summer. A commercial qualiﬁ cation 
programme, to meet the needs of our 
export and commercial customers, has 
commenced, and UK qualiﬁ cation will 
follow in summer 2012. A number of export 
customers have already placed orders and 
there continues to be strong interest in the 
product from all parts of the global market.
Our business units and companies
Chemring Energetics UK Ltd 
Specialises in the design and 
manufacture of energetic materials, 
detonators, and demolition stores.
Chemring EOD Ltd (UK)
Manufactures a range of products for 
detection, assessment and neutralisation 
of threats from improvised explosive 
devices and unexploded ordnance.
Chemring Ordnance, Inc. (USA)
Supplies Anti-Personnel Obstacle 
Breaching System (APOBS), a 
rocket-deployed mine clearance system, 
to the US Army.
Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. (USA)
Leading US developer and supplier of 
vehicle-mounted chemical and biological 
detection systems for the US Army.
Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, 
Inc. (USA)
The leading manufacturer of 
vehicle-mounted ground penetrating 
radar mine detection systems.
Roke Manor Research Ltd (UK)
A world-class developer of electronic 
countermeasures and threat detection 
technologies.
Our products
Detect
• Vehicle-mounted IED detection systems
• Chemical and biological detection 
systems
• Stand-off IED detectors
• Remote IED inspection equipment
• Under-vehicle surveillance systems
Disable
• Electronic countermeasures
Defeat
• Remote initiators
• Detonators
• Explosive charges
• Mineﬁ eld breaching systems
• Recoilless de-armers/disruptors Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
16
Our land-based electronic warfare business 
grew substantially, reﬂ ecting the full year 
contribution of Roke and the success 
of its RESOLVE product in the UK and 
export markets.
The closing order book for the 
Countermeasures division was 
£234 million, down 12% on the previous 
year. This reﬂ ected lower orders for 
helicopter and transport applications, 
and slower growth in demand for fast jet 
ﬂ ares, as Typhoon war stock procurement 
for European and Middle East customers 
was delayed by dispenser issues.
Activities during the year
During the year, Chemring Countermeasures 
provided strong support for the UK 
peacekeeping operation over Libya, rapidly 
delivering enhanced capability to protect 
both Typhoon and Tornado fast jets. 
These products were made available to 
operational aircraft within days of issue of 
the requirement, ensuring that platforms 
sent to Libya were protected from a variety 
of potential surface-to-air missile threats. 
Overall, production volumes remained 
stable at around 450,000 decoys.
Kilgore Flares, one of our US subsidiaries, 
had an excellent year, with revenue up 
5% to a new record on steady production 
volumes of around 1 million ﬂ ares. This was 
principally driven by a four-fold growth in 
the production volumes of ﬂ ares used to 
protect the B-52 aircraft. Following ﬁ nal 
qualiﬁ cation of the Joint Strike Fighter 
(JSF) ﬂ are set, Kilgore will continue with 
low rate production over the next two 
years while the overall aircraft programme 
is completed. Although currently a sole 
source provider, Kilgore has entered into 
a manufacturing license agreement which 
will facilitate the transfer of production of 
a JSF ﬂ are to Chemring Australia in the 
coming years. BAE Systems, Lockheed 
Martin, the US Navy Program Ofﬁ ce, and 
the JSF Program Ofﬁ ce are all part of a joint 
effort to establish this important industrial 
participation program for Australia.
Following the September 2010 incident at 
Kilgore, we are rebuilding the ﬁ nal assembly 
building that was damaged in the incident. 
The building will have numerous safety 
Countermeasures
Highlights in 2011
•  Revenues from fast jet decoys 
increased by 7% to £97 million
• Chemring Countermeasures supported 
peacekeeping operations over Libya, 
delivering enhanced capability to 
protect UK combat aircraft
• Two key naval decoy upgrade 
programmes completed
• Roke completed deliveries of the 
RESOLVE man-portable electronic 
warfare system to the UK Army 
Key information
Orders
£155m
Revenue
£201m
Operating proﬁ t
£47m
Operating margin
23%
Strategy
The core strategy for our Countermeasures 
division is to maintain our share of the 
expendable countermeasures market and to 
expand the business in line with the market, 
which is expected to grow over the next ﬁ ve 
to ten years. We will continue to invest in 
new products and technologies that build on 
our current leadership in special materials, 
spectral and thrusted ﬂ are technologies. 
We will also invest signiﬁ cantly in both decoy 
and launcher technologies for the naval 
market, which we expect to grow rapidly 
in the future. A new generation of active 
off-board decoys will be developed, building 
on our world-leading position in expendable 
countermeasures and our capabilities in 
advanced, miniaturised radio frequency 
(RF) electronics. We will build on our strong 
position in man-portable electronic warfare 
equipment to establish ourselves as a world 
leader in dismounted and vehicle-mounted 
systems. We will also establish a niche 
position in network protection, based on our 
capabilities in fast electronic hardware and 
Network Enabled Capability.
Analysis
The market for expendable countermeasures 
is estimated to be £360 million. In 2011, our 
revenue was £201 million, up 3% on the 
previous year, but this included a full year 
of revenue from Roke which was acquired in 
2010. Excluding Roke, organic revenue fell 
18%, reﬂ ecting reduced demand for ﬂ ares 
for the protection of helicopter and transport 
aircraft, as customers reduce stockpiles in 
anticipation of withdrawal from Afghanistan. 
This reduction was larger than expected 
as both US and UK governments have 
continued to delay order placement because 
of the tight budgetary constraints. Sales at 
our US subsidiary, Alloy Surfaces, and at our 
UK subsidiary, Chemring Countermeasures, 
were most affected. On the other hand, 
sales of decoys used on fast jets increased 
by 7% to £97 million, despite the fact that 
there was no production of the MJU-7 ﬂ ares 
used to protect the F-15 and F-16 ﬁ ghters. 
Revenue from naval countermeasures was 
lower than 2010, due to the extended time 
taken to complete development of two key 
naval round upgrade programmes, which 
prevented volume production in the year. 
Kilgore Flares, one of our US subsidiaries, had an 
excellent year, with revenue up 5% to a new record. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
17
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Dispensing ﬂ ares
F-22 aircraft deploys ﬂ ares
and productivity improvements, including 
increased automation, and is on schedule 
for commissioning by the end of the ﬁ rst 
half of this ﬁ nancial year. Production of the 
MJU-7 ﬂ are, used to protect the F-15 and 
F-16 aircraft, will then recommence.
Our other US subsidiary, Alloy Surfaces, 
had a more difﬁ cult year, with a substantial 
reduction in revenue from lower production 
volumes of 1.3 million decoys, 32% down 
on last year. This was principally driven by 
the 50% reduction in volumes of MJU-50 
decoys that are mainly used by the US Air 
Force on transport aircraft. This reduction 
in volumes had an adverse impact on our 
operating margin, and resulted in the 
closure of one of Alloy Surfaces’ three 
production sites in Philadelphia and a 
reduction of over one hundred staff.
Alloy Surfaces has, however, made progress 
with its development of two next generation 
decoys for the protection of helicopters. 
The business has received a contract to 
deliver 1,500 developmental units of one 
decoy for US Air Force effectiveness testing 
in early 2012, with a production order 
expected later in the year. The other decoy 
is designed for the protection of small 
signature rotary aircraft. Flight tests have 
shown excellent performance, and further 
effectiveness testing is expected to begin in 
the second quarter.
Alloy Surfaces has also been developing 
a new pre-emptive, long duration, 
infra-red countermeasure with exceptional 
performance. It will expand countermeasure 
protection capabilities for both the F-16 
and F-18 aircraft. Initial US Navy tests were 
completed in September 2011 and further 
ﬂ ight tests are scheduled for early 2012.
Chemring Australia’s new manufacturing 
facility is currently being commissioned. 
The ﬁ rst ﬂ are has been manufactured 
and volume production is scheduled to be 
underway by summer 2012. Further upgrades 
to support the JSF programme will be 
implemented over the next few years.
The acquisition of Roke in September 
2010 signiﬁ cantly enhanced the Group’s 
electronics capabilities for the design of 
the next generation active-RF expendable 
countermeasures, for the design and 
integration of the Centurion trainable 
launcher, and for a range of electronic 
warfare systems for land forces. Deliveries 
to the UK Army of our RESOLVE electronic 
warfare system, designed to be carried 
by an individual soldier, were completed 
during the year. Operational feedback has 
been extremely positive and export interest 
has grown substantially, particularly from 
Middle East customers. Roke has also 
demonstrated a vehicle-mounted system, 
which is attracting strong export interest.
In 2011, Roke developed Battleﬁ eld Connect, 
the world’s ﬁ rst wide area military 3G 
base station. Capable of 40km range and 
high bandwidths, Battleﬁ eld Connect 
is interoperable with existing military 
command infrastructure systems and can 
support defence applications including 
streaming video to unmanned air vehicles, 
imagery and biometric information 
exchange, and simultaneous voice and 
data communications. This year, Roke 
has partnered with a major international 
defence communications supplier to bring 
the full product to market.
Roke is also part of the industry consortium 
that has been awarded a contract to deliver 
the UK Ministry of Defence’s Intelligence, 
Surveillance, Target Acquisition and 
Reconnaissance (ISTAR) Information 
Integration and Management (I3M) 
programme, which sits at the heart of the 
capacity of the armed forces to effectively 
use the information gleaned from their 
many platforms and sensors.
Roke has successfully deployed a number 
of next generation Aquila Deep Packet 
Inspection probes into our existing 
customer base with positive feedback to 
date. Aquila’s patented search technology 
has the highest density data processing 
capability on the market, with less 
than half the footprint of comparable 
platforms. Network protection is a fast 
growing market for Roke, providing key 
expertise and research and development 
technology to a number of long term UK 
government programmes.
Our business units and companies 
Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. (USA)
The world’s only manufacturer of special 
material decoys for the US Department 
of Defense and militaries worldwide. 
Alloy’s patented technology employs 
pyrophoric materials to decoy attacking 
enemy missiles.
Chemring Australia Pty Ltd
Australia’s only on-shore manufacturer of 
aircraft expendable countermeasures.
Chemring Countermeasures Ltd (UK)
A world leader in the design, development 
and manufacture of advanced expendable 
countermeasures for air and sea platforms, 
and is also developing next generation 
launchers for deploying naval decoys.
Kilgore Flares Company LLC (USA)
Develops and produces airborne 
expendable IR countermeasure decoys 
and naval decoys.
Roke Manor Research Ltd (UK)
A world-class developer of electronic 
countermeasures, electronic intelligence 
and network protection technologies.
Our products 
Air countermeasures
• Conventional and advanced ﬂ ares
• Special material decoys
• Chaff
Naval countermeasures
• RF decoys
• IR decoys
• Naval decoy launchers
Land/EW
• Electronic intelligence equipment
• Electronic countermeasures
• Lawful intercept equipment Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
18
took six months to hold the competition 
for the 40mm prime contract covering 
the next ﬁ ve years. This extended period 
forced re-qualiﬁ cation of all production 
lines, and the Army decided to give priority 
to its non-pyrotechnic requirements. 
Production is restarting in 2012 with good 
volumes for M662 Red Star and M992 
Blacklight rounds. In September, the 
US Army declared the M992 was one of its 
top ten award-winning inventions.
Mecar has completed the initial development 
of a 120mm mortar spotting round, which 
is used to improve long-range ﬁ ring 
accuracy as well as operator and forward 
observer training. This new product uses a 
proprietary composition that replaces the 
conventional white phosphorus payload. In 
2012, Mecar will also develop an infra-red 
and visible light screening round for towed 
and turreted 120mm mortar systems.
In September, Chemring Ordnance won 
two new marine pyrotechnic production 
contracts, worth up to $31 million, from the 
US Navy. The ﬁ rst was for Mk 140 series 
day/night signals that are launched from 
submarines to signal surface vessels or 
aircraft. The second was for the MK124 
day/night pyrotechnic marking signal, a 
hand-held device utilised by the US Navy 
and US Air Force aircrew in air and sea 
rescue and recovery operations. These 
new contracts establish Chemring as 
one of the largest suppliers of submarine 
location markers.
Training
In 2010, Chemring Ordnance upgraded 
the M228 training grenade to incorporate 
the conﬁ dence clip ﬁ tted to live grenades 
used by the US Army to prevent accidental 
removal of the ﬁ ring pin. During 2011, the 
automated production line was increased 
to 20 units per minute and over two million 
units were made. The company also passed 
several pre-qualiﬁ cation tests for a next 
generation pyrotechnic simulator, which 
provides a safe and realistic visible effect 
to orientate air and ground personnel to 
the launch of a MANPADS surface-to-air 
missile. The MANPADS simulator will be 
utilised to train personnel involved in rotary 
wing close air support and UAV operations.
Pyrotechnics
Highlights in 2011
• US Army declared the M992 “black 
light” illumination round produced by 
Chemring Ordnance as one of its top 
ten inventions
• Chemring Energetics UK selected to 
deliver components associated with the 
emergency oxygen deployment system 
for the Boeing 787
• Chemring Energetic Devices completed 
initial deliveries of its Joint Combined 
Aircraft Systems Testers (JCAST), for 
testing life-support systems for F-16 
and F-22 aircraft
Key information
Orders
£107m
Revenue
£140m
Operating proﬁ t
£32m
Operating margin
23%
Strategy
Our strategy is to become the world 
leader in pyrotechnics, through focused 
investment in new products that displace 
existing incumbents and which better meet 
our customers’ requirements and transform 
their operational capabilities. We intend to 
expand our activities in the space sector 
by developing improved products for 
initiation, stage separation, and satellite 
and sub-system deployment for military and 
commercial customers. This will address the 
US, European and emerging international 
markets. We intend to expand our safety 
systems activities, both in military and 
civil aircraft.
Analysis
The global market for pyrotechnics is 
currently estimated to be £1.6 billion. 
Our revenue in 2010 was £140 million, 
which is 18% lower than the previous year 
and represents a reduction in global market 
share to 9%. The majority of this decline 
was driven by reduced sales of smoke and 
illumination products, which were 25% lower 
than the previous year. Sales of training 
and simulation products were down 5%, 
reﬂ ecting reduced European sales which 
were partially offset by increased deliveries 
of US training grenades.
The closing order book was £145 million, 
down 16% on the previous year due to 
delayed order placement from many of our 
customers. However, demand is recovering 
in this sector and revenues are expected to 
recover to pre-2011 levels.
Activities during the year
Smoke and illumination
The Group continues to focus on the 
development of advance “blacklight” and 
visible illumination payloads for a wide 
variety of ordnance rounds and missiles. 
During the year, volume production was 
started on 105mm ammunition payloads 
and this has generated considerable 
interest with the US Army. A number of 
air-launched products are also under 
development and should enter production 
in the next few years.
Production of US 40mm pyrotechnic 
rounds slowed in 2011, when the US Army 
In September, Chemring Ordnance won two new marine 
pyrotechnic production contracts, worth up to $31 million, 
from the US Navy. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
19
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Safety systems
Chemring Energetics UK has been selected 
by BE Aerospace to deliver components 
associated with the emergency oxygen 
deployment system for the Boeing 787. 
The initial components have been delivered 
as part of the qualiﬁ cation programme for 
the system, and we have signed a long-term 
agreement with BE Aerospace to deliver 
these components over an extended period. 
We are also supporting proposals for an 
emergency oxygen delivery system on the 
Airbus 350.
In early September, Chemring Energetic 
Devices completed initial deliveries of its 
Joint Combined Aircraft Systems Testers 
(JCAST), which are used to test oxygen 
systems, helmets, noise reduction headsets 
and chemical defence systems on F-16 and 
F-22 aircraft. These testers were used by 
the US Air Force to assess the quality of 
the oxygen systems that grounded the 
F-22 ﬂ eet during 2011. Each of the F-22 
squadrons now has an onsite test capability.  
We are also under contract to provide 
additional systems to the US Air Force Air 
Combat Command for its F-16 units in 2012, 
and have started working with the Air Force 
on deﬁ ning the modiﬁ cations necessary to 
service the multi-national F-35 Joint Strike 
Fighter programme.
Space
Our commercial launch and satellite 
segment continues to grow, and defence 
customers are combining their requirements 
with the commercial side to realise cost 
savings. The constant need for weather, 
navigation and increased communications 
bandwidth will have a positive impact on 
this marketplace. The market is becoming 
more global with both Europe and Asia 
increasing their rate of launches, and in 
order to exploit this change, Hi-Shear and 
Chemring Energetics UK have entered into 
an agreement to expand Chemring’s space 
presence in Europe. We are solidifying our 
relationship with both ANA and Mitsubishi 
in Japan, and we have begun to explore 
relationships in India.
Our business units and companies
Chemring Australia Pty Ltd
Supplies a range of pyrotechnics, military 
training and marine safety products.
Chemring Defence (Europe)
Centre-of-excellence for the design, 
development and production of smoke and 
illumination pyrotechnics and payloads for 
military, OEM and safety customers.
Chemring Energetics UK Ltd
A leading supplier of rocket motors, 
canopy cutting cords and pyromechanisms 
for safety and aircrew egress.
Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. (USA)
Supplier of pyrotechnic and 
electromechanical systems for space, 
safety and military training applications. 
Chemring Marine Ltd (UK)
The world’s leading supplier of marine 
distress signals to commercial and 
leisure markets, under the brand names 
Pains Wessex and Comet.
Chemring Ordnance, Inc. (USA)
Leading US manufacturer of military 
training pyrotechnics and pyrotechnic 
rounds for 40mm grenade launchers.
Hi-Shear Technology Corporation (USA)
Leading supplier of space qualiﬁ ed 
initiators and low shock satellite 
separation systems, and a range of 
pyromechanisms for aircrew egress.
Our products
Space and satellite launch
• Initiators
• Separation sub-systems
• Thrusters and actuators
Training
• Pyrotechnics and launchers
Smoke and illumination 
• Military smokes, ﬂ ares and rockets
• Distraction and screening products
• Pyrotechnic payloads
• Commercial marine pyrotechnics
• Submarine distress signals
Safety systems
• Rocket motors
• Canopy cutting charges
• Cartridge actuated devices
Troop concealment
Training with smoke grenades Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
20
Activities during the year
Naval
76mm naval ammunition continued to be 
in demand during the year, with production 
volumes up 83% to 13,000 rounds. There 
has been strong interest from many of our 
naval customers in Europe, the Middle East, 
the Far East and South America. A new 
microwave fuze, jointly developed with 
Oto Melara, has recently completed NATO 
qualiﬁ cation and a live-ﬁ ring demonstration 
for a number of Middle East customers is 
scheduled to take place shortly in Italy.
Land
Our sales of large calibre ammunition grew 
strongly during the year with revenues 
up 198% for Middle East and Far East 
customers. Demand for advanced 90mm 
and 105mm ammunition for LAVs has 
continued to increase with more and more 
non-NATO countries upgrading their ﬂ eets 
to make them more effective. Demand for 
81mm and 120mmm mortar products also 
increased and we recently signed our ﬁ rst 
contract with an important Middle East 
Navy customer.
Demand for our range of 40mm grenades 
has also continued to grow, with a 200% 
increase in production volumes for 
Australian and Middle East customers. 
Our US subsidiary, Chemring Ordnance, 
continues to develop, qualify, and ﬁ eld 
advanced products for the US market and 
this year we qualiﬁ ed a family of extended 
range, low velocity rounds and the next 
generation door-breaching round used by 
special forces for forced entry operations.
Components and sub-systems
Demand for our high performance, high 
reliability components and sub-systems 
continues to grow with increased sales to 
both US and European prime contractors. 
During the year, there was a substantial 
increase in the deliveries of warheads to 
MBDA for use on their Sea Viper air defence 
missile, that protects the UK’s Daring class 
destroyers. There was also strong growth in 
sales of fuzing and safety/arming systems 
that initiate warheads and rocket motors 
with over 20,000 ordnance fuzes delivered 
to Far East customers.
Munitions
Highlights in 2011
• Revenue up 104% on 2010
• Large calibre ammunition sales grew 
strongly with revenues up 198%
• New microwave fuze, jointly developed 
with Oto Melara, recently completed 
NATO qualiﬁ cation
• Continued growth in demand for 
40mm grenades, with a 200% increase 
in production
• Closing order book for Munitions 
was £372 million, an increase of 39% 
on 2010
Key information
Orders
£349m
Revenue
£237m
Operating proﬁ t
£41m
Operating margin
17%
Strategy
Our principal strategy is to develop our 
position as a niche prime contractor 
of specialist ammunition products for 
European and non-NATO markets. We will 
build on our world-leading position in naval 
ammunition, our growing strength in the 
supply of ammunition for light armoured 
vehicles (LAVs), and our broad range of 
mortar and 40mm grenade products. 
We will focus on new product development 
and investment in facilities that will allow 
us to expand our presence in a growing 
international market. We intend to build 
our position as a key strategic supplier 
of energetic material components and 
sub-systems to the key prime contractors 
for ammunition and missiles in Europe 
and the US. This will be achieved by 
developing and qualifying components 
for next generation weapon systems, 
displacing poorly performing incumbents on 
legacy products, investment in automated 
manufacturing facilities, and by further 
complementary acquisitions where 
there is a clear opportunity to enhance 
shareholder value.
Analysis
The global market for ammunition, 
excluding small calibre, is estimated to 
be £4 billion. Our total revenue in 2011 
was £237 million, a 104% increase on the 
previous year and equating to a market 
share of 6%. Our highest growth comes 
from the sale of ammunition for LAVs, 
which increased by 198% to £158 million of 
revenue. Naval ammunition sales increased 
by 122% to £20 million, as deliveries 
of 76mm ammunition started to ramp 
upwards. The global market for munitions 
components is estimated to be £2 billion. 
In 2011, our revenue from components 
was £58 million, representing 24% of our 
total Munitions revenue, an increase of 
8% compared with the previous year and 
equating to a market share of 3%.
The closing order book for the Munitions 
division was £372 million, an increase of 
39% on the previous year, and a clear 
indication of further growth in 2012. 
About 71% of the order book is from 
non-NATO customers.
The closing order book for the Munitions division 
was £372 million, an increase of 39% on the 
previous year. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
21
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The Group also manufactures critical 
components of fuzing systems used 
in a large number of US missiles and 
ammunition rounds. A new 25mm airburst 
round, called the XM-25, was qualiﬁ ed 
during the year and then evaluated in the 
ﬁ eld by US Special Forces. Highly automated 
manufacturing systems will be set up 
during 2012 to handle the start of full rate 
production in 2014.
Our business units and companies
Chemring Energetics UK Ltd
A leading supplier of detonators, 
actuators, rocket motors, high explosive 
ﬁ lling and pyromechanical sub-assemblies. 
Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. (USA)
Manufactures a range of materials, 
components and sub-systems for leading 
missile and ammunition prime contractors.
Chemring Military Products, Inc. (USA) 
Provides load, assemble, pack 
and procurement services to the 
US government and prime contractors.
Chemring Nobel AS (Norway)
Manufactures niche energetic 
materials with insensitive munitions 
(IM) characteristics for munition and 
oil-ﬁ eld applications.
Chemring Ordnance, Inc. (USA)
Niche supplier of 40mm grenade 
ammunition.
Hi-Shear Technology Corporation (USA)
Develops advanced sub-systems 
for ballistic missile defence and 
tactical weapons.
Mecar S.A. (Belgium)
A niche supplier of medium and 
large calibre ammunition for light 
armoured vehicles.
Simmel Difesa S.p.A. (Italy)
A leading supplier of naval ammunition, 
advanced fuzing technology and 
missile components.
Our products
Naval ammunition
• Medium and large calibre ammunition
Land forces ammunition
• Medium and large calibre ammunition
• 40mm grenades
• Mortar ammunition
Components
• Propellants and rocket motors
• Fuze and safe/arm units
• Pyromechanisms and actuators
• Energetic materials
105mm tank ammunition
105mm MGS Stryker BCT vehicle Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
22
Underlying proﬁ t before tax* was up 6% to £125.6 million,
and underlying proﬁ t after tax* was up 10% to £96.8 million.
Results
An analysis of the underlying results is set out below:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Total revenue 745.3 597.1
Divisional operating proﬁ t 151.8 147.9
Unallocated corporate costs (10.0) (10.4)
Underlying operating proﬁ t 141.8 137.5
Share of post-tax results of associate 0.1 0.1
Finance income 0.1 0.5
Finance expense (16.4) (19.4)
Underlying proﬁ t before tax 125.6 118.7
Tax on underlying proﬁ t before tax (28.8) (30.7)
Underlying proﬁ t after tax 96.8 88.0
Total revenue was £745.3 million (2010: £597.1  million), an increase of 25%. Revenue 
arising from the acquisition of Chemring Detection Systems in 2011 was £14.6 million, 2% 
of the increase. Organic revenue growth
~
 was 9%. Roke and Mecar, which were acquired 
in September 2010, contributed 17% of the Group revenue increase. During the year, the 
US dollar depreciated against sterling, which reduced the reported sterling revenues of 
US subsidiaries by £15.1 million, equivalent to 3%.
An analysis of revenue and divisional operating proﬁ t* by segment is set out below:
Division
Revenue
£m
 Underlying 
 operating 
 proﬁ t*
 £m
2011
Underlying 
operating 
margin Revenue
£m
 Underlying 
 operating 
 proﬁ t*
#
 £m
2010
Underlying 
operating 
margin
Counter-IED 167.6 31.9 19% 114.9 28.1 25%
Countermeasures 200.8 46.7 23% 196.3 58.8 30%
Pyrotechnics 139.9 32.4 23% 170.0 40.1 24%
Munitions 237.0 40.8 17% 115.9 20.9 18%
Divisional results 745.3 151.8 20% 597.1 147.9 25%
Counter-IED revenue increased 46% to £167.6 million, due to increased revenue at 
NIITEK for HMDS spares and support, together with a £14.6 million contribution from 
Chemring Detection Systems. Operating margins reduced to 19%, largely due to pricing 
pressure on NIITEK’s products. Chemring Detection Systems’ 15% margin also diluted 
the overall margin for this segment.
Countermeasures revenue grew by 3% but underlying operating proﬁ t* reduced 21%, 
largely due to lower demand for decoys at Alloy Surfaces, which was only partially offset 
by revenue from Roke at a lower margin of 10%.
Pyrotechnics revenue decreased 18% to £139.9 million and underlying operating 
proﬁ t* decreased 19% to £32.4 million, principally due to lower demand for 81mm 
illumination products.
Financial highlights
• Revenue up 25% to £745.3 million
• Underlying proﬁ t before tax* up 6% to
£125.6 million 
• Net ﬁ nance expense down 14% to 
£16.3 million
• Underlying operating cash ﬂ ow of 
£124.6 million, representing an 
88% conversion from underlying 
operating proﬁ t*
• £150.1 million of undrawn borrowing 
facilities at the year end
Key information
Underlying operating proﬁ t*
£141.8m
+3%
Research and development expenditure
£59.6m
+74%
Divisional operating margin
20%
*  Before non-underlying items (see Note 6)
#
  The 2010 ﬁ gures have been restated to reﬂ ect the 
reclassiﬁ cation of certain items from underlying 
costs to non-underlying costs (see Note 6)
~
  Organic growth at constant US dollar excludes 
growth from contracts and customers acquired with 
Roke, Mecar and Chemring Detection Systems
Review by the Finance Director Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
23
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Munitions grew the most, with revenue increasing 104% to 
£237.0 million following a strong second half performance from 
Mecar. Mecar’s margin grew to 10% in the second half from a 
negative margin at the half year.
Unallocated corporate costs were £10.0 million, slightly down on 
2010. In 2010, two non-recurring cost items, which netted out at 
£1.9 million (£4.3 million charge, £2.4 million credit) were included 
in unallocated corporate costs but with the reformatting of the 
Income Statement this year these items have now been reclassiﬁ ed 
as non-underlying items in order to be consistent year-on-year. 
The impact of this reclassiﬁ cation is an increase in underlying 
operating proﬁ t* for 2010 to £137.5 million from £135.6 million, 
although divisional operating proﬁ ts are unchanged.
Total underlying operating proﬁ t* was £141.8 million 
(2010: £137.5 million), an increase of 3%. Underlying operating 
proﬁ t* generated by Chemring Detection Systems was £2.2 million. 
Roke and Mecar contributed £9.0 million. The impact of the 
depreciation of the US dollar against sterling reduced the US 
subsidiaries’ reported sterling proﬁ ts in 2011 by £3.6 million. 
Without this depreciation, growth in total underlying operating 
proﬁ t* in 2011 would have been 6%.
Total underlying operation margin* reduced to 19% from 23% last 
year. Approximately half this reduction is attributable to lower 
margins at Alloy Surfaces and NIITEK, with the other half reﬂ ecting 
the impact of acquired businesses with lower margins than the 
Group average.
Finance income in the year was £0.1 million (2010: £0.5 million). 
Finance expense for the year was £16.4 million (2010: £19.4 million), 
a decrease of 15%. Included within ﬁ nance expense is £0.7 million 
(2010: £1.2 million) for retirement beneﬁ t obligations. Net ﬁ nance 
expense was covered 8.7 times (2010: 7.3 times) by underlying 
operating proﬁ ts.
Underlying proﬁ t before tax* was £125.6 million 
(2010: £118.7 million
#
), an increase of 6%.
Tax on underlying proﬁ t before tax* was £28.8 million 
(2010: £30.7 million), representing an underlying rate of 23% 
(2010: 26%). The reduction in the tax rate arises from the 
utilisation of research and development tax credits across the 
Group, particularly at Roke, together with the partial utilisation 
of tax losses within our European businesses which had not 
previously been recognised.
Underlying proﬁ t after tax* was £96.8 million 
(2010: £88.0 million
#
), an increase of 10%.
Analysis of non-underlying items
The Board monitors underlying operating proﬁ t and underlying 
proﬁ t before tax for reporting purposes so as to not distort 
year-on-year comparisons, hence certain items are classed as 
non-underlying as set out below:
2011
£m
 2010
#
 £m
Acquisition related costs 5.7 6.7
Restructuring and incident costs 7.2 4.3
Provision release – (2.4)
(Gain)/loss on fair value movements on derivatives (2.4) 4.0
Intangible amortisation arising from 
business combinations 24.3 17.0
Total non-underlying items 34.8 29.6
Acquisition related costs include the external costs incurred 
in acquiring businesses in 2010 and 2011, together with costs 
associated with an aborted bid and the establishment of 
joint ventures.
In 2011, the restructuring and incident costs related to the 
closure of Plant 3 at Alloy Surfaces (£1.1 million) and the start-up 
of production at Mecar following the incident that occurred in 
September 2010 (£2.3 million). At the end of October 2011, the 
Board decided to exit some loss-making munitions product lines in 
the US, and in addition to minor losses, a provision has also been 
made for excess inventory and ﬁ xed assets (£3.8 million).
In 2010, the restructuring and incident costs included the 
restructuring of the Group’s UK Counter-IED business at a cost 
of £1.5 million. As a result, one of the two sites out of which it 
operated was closed. Also, there were two separate incidents that 
stopped production at the Kilgore Flares facility in Tennessee and 
Mecar in Belgium. As a result of these incidents, £2.8 million of 
non-recurring costs were incurred in respect of the write-off of 
damaged stock and destroyed assets.
During 2010, part of the provision held in respect of the 
environmental liabilities associated with the Chemring Energetic 
Devices site in Illinois was released, following a third party 
assessment of the provision. This resulted in a £2.4 million 
non-recurring credit to the Income Statement.
A gain on derivatives of £2.4 million arose this year, due largely to 
the movement in the sterling/dollar exchange rate during the year.
Intangible amortisation arising from business combinations 
increased in the year, with a full year amortisation of assets 
acquired with the Mecar and Roke acquisitions, and four 
months’ amortisation arising from the acquisition of Chemring 
Detection Systems. Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
24
Review by the Finance Director
continued
Research and development expenditure totalled 
£59.6 million, 74% higher than last year, reﬂ ecting 
the Group’s investment in future growth.
Shareholder returns
Underlying basic earnings per ordinary share* was 52.1p 
(2010: 49.8p
#
), an increase of 5%. Basic earnings per share were 
39.8p (2010: 37.8p), an increase of 5%.
The total dividend per ordinary share of 14.8p (2010: 11.8p) is 
covered 3.5 times (2010: 4.2 times) by the underlying earnings 
per share* .
The Group’s underlying return on capital employed was 19% 
(2010: 22%).
Shareholders’ funds at the year end were £475.4 million 
(2010: £323.2 million), an increase of 47%.
Pensions
The deﬁ cit on the Group’s deﬁ ned beneﬁ t schemes before 
associated tax credits, as deﬁ ned by IAS 19 Accounting for pension 
costs, was £25.2 million (2010: £23.0 million).
The Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme is a deﬁ ned beneﬁ t 
scheme, with the assets held in a separate trustee-administered 
fund. A full actuarial valuation for the Staff Pension Scheme as at 
6 April 2009 has been prepared and updated to 31 October 2011 
by a qualiﬁ ed actuary, using the projected unit credit method.
The Group has given a bank guarantee and letters of credit totalling 
£27.2 million (2010: £7.2 million) to the Staff Pension Scheme. 
The guarantee and letters of credit may be drawn upon in certain 
events of default by the Company. The increase in this contingent 
funding during the year resulted in the release of the £15.0 million 
of previously restricted cash pledged to the Staff Pension Scheme, 
with £5.0 million of the increase being provided in line with the 
agreed funding plan.
The Group is currently consulting with active members of the 
Staff Pension Scheme on the proposed closure of the scheme to 
future accrual.
Most of our UK employees are now offered membership of a 
deﬁ ned contribution pension scheme. The majority of our overseas 
pension arrangements are also deﬁ ned contribution, save in 
those European countries where certain deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension 
arrangements are required.
Research and development
Research and development expenditure totalled £59.6 million 
(2010: £34.2 million), 74% higher than last year. The increase 
reﬂ ects the Group’s investment in future growth, and includes the 
signiﬁ cant full year impact of Roke’s customer-funded research and 
development. An analysis of expenditure is set out below:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Customer-funded research and development 38.4 20.6
Internally-funded research and development 21.2 13.6
Total research and development expenditure 59.6 34.2
£12.4 million (2010: £7.8 million) of the internally-funded research 
and development costs were capitalised in the year.
The Group’s policy is to write-off capitalised development costs 
over a three year period. Amortisation of development costs was 
£2.4 million (2010: £2.1 million).
Cash ﬂ ow
Underlying operating cash ﬂ ow* was £124.6 million 
(2010: £128.0 million
#
), which represents a conversion rate of 
underlying operating proﬁ t* to operating cash of 88% (2010: 93%).
Fixed asset expenditure across the Group was £61.7 million 
(2010: £48.7 million), which includes £19.7 million related to the 
construction of new facilities at our sites in Salisbury and Australia, 
and £4.5 million relating to new facilities in Scotland.
Tax payments were lower than last year due to the availability 
of research and development tax credits and lower tax rates, 
combined with the timing of payments.
Interest was higher due to the timing of interest payments relating 
to some of the US loan notes.
A summary of underlying Group cash ﬂ ow is set out below:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Underlying operating cash ﬂ ow 124.6 128.0
Fixed asset expenditure (61.7) (48.7)
Tax (17.2) (30.0)
Interest (17.8) (14.0)
Underlying free cash ﬂ ow 27.9 35.3
Working capital
A summary of working capital balances is set out below:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Variance
£m
Inventories 146.8 141.3 5.5
Trade receivables 164.1 139.1 25.0
Trade payables (105.3) (100.1) (5.2)
Advance payments (48.7) (52.8) 4.1
Total working capital 156.9 127.5 29.4
Total working capital days 77 78
Overall working capital increased by 23% on 2010, slightly lower than 
the increase in revenue. Total working capital days were consistent 
with last year at 77 days (2010: 78 days). Trade receivables were 
18% higher than 2010, although lower than the rate of revenue 
growth. At the end of 2010, trade payables were high as a result of 
payables acquired with Mecar. During the ﬁ rst half of 2011, these 
trade payables were settled. It is anticipated that working capital 
will reduce in 2012. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
25
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Acquisitions
On 1 July 2011, the Group completed the acquisition of the Detection 
Systems operations and certain related assets of General Dynamics 
Armament and Technical Products, a subsidiary of General 
Dynamics Corporation, for a cash consideration of $90 million 
(£56.1 million). The business, which has been renamed Chemring 
Detection Systems Inc., is based in Charlotte, North Carolina, and 
is a US leader in chemical and biological threat detection. It also 
has advanced capability in the stand-off detection of improvised 
explosive devices.
A summary of the business acquired, together with the provisional 
fair value adjustments made on acquisition is set out below:
Book
value
£m
Provisional 
fair value 
adjustments 
£m
Fair
value
£m
Intangible assets 4.8 30.3 35.1
Property, plant and equipment 4.2 (0.7) 3.5
Overdraft assumed (1.9) - (1.9)
Working capital 8.0 (2.1) 5.9
Net assets acquired 15.1 27.5 42.6
Goodwill 13.5
Total 56.1
Total cash consideration 56.1
During the year, the provisional fair value adjustments made to 
the 2010 acquisitions were ﬁ nalised. As a result, the net assets 
of the acquired companies increased by £5.4 million, with a 
commensurate reduction in goodwill. As required by accounting 
standards, the 2010 balance sheet has been restated. Full details 
can be found in Note 33 of the ﬁ nancial statements.
Share split
At the Annual General Meeting on 24 March 2011, the shareholders 
approved the subdivision of the Company’s ordinary shares of 5p 
each into ordinary shares of 1p each.
Equity issue
On 20 April 2011, the Group placed 17,405,183 new ordinary shares 
at 645p per share, raising approximately £112 million before costs. 
The placing represented in the region of 9.8% of the Group’s market 
capitalisation, and it was anticipated that the capital raised would 
be used to fund two acquisitions. Approximately £56 million of the 
placing proceeds was used to fund the acquisition of Chemring 
Detection Systems but the Board did not pursue the second 
acquisition and the funds remain within the Group’s balance sheet.
Net debt, facilities and going concern
Net debt at the year end was £262.7 million (2010: £307.5 million), 
a decrease of 15%. The Group had £150.1 million 
(2010: £104.6 million) of undrawn borrowing facilities at the 
year end.
On 14 January 2011, the Group completed a reﬁ nancing of its bank 
facilities with a syndicate of ﬁ ve banks. The new Group facilities, 
which are unsecured, total £230 million, a £55 million increase 
on the previous secured facilities. The term of the facilities is now 
through to April 2015.
Gearing at the year end was 55% (2010: 95%). A summary of debt 
is set out below:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Cash 91.9 58.4
Loans and ﬁ nance leases (94.4) (104.7)
Loan notes (260.2) (261.2)
(262.7) (307.5)
The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on going 
concern. Whilst the current volatility in ﬁ nancial markets has 
created general uncertainty, the Group has signiﬁ cant working 
capital headroom and strong covenant compliance. Thus, the 
directors have a reasonable expectation that adequate ﬁ nancial 
resources will continue to be available for the foreseeable future.
P A Rayner
Finance Director
24 January 2012 Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
26
Key performance indicators
The Group’s strategy is underpinned by focusing on a number of 
key ﬁ nancial performance indicators. The key indicators that the 
Board utilises to assess Group performance are set out below. 
Similar indicators are used to review performance in each of the 
Group’s businesses. Details of non-ﬁ nancial performance indicators 
are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Review.
The Board considers that the measurement of underlying and 
divisional operating proﬁ t provides additional useful information 
for users.
Orders received and order book
Orders received Order book
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Counter-IED 207.4 178.5 127.1 99.3
Countermeasures 155.0 219.2 234.0 265.4
Pyrotechnics 107.4 181.4 145.5 171.9
Munitions 349.3 245.2 371.7 266.7
Total 819.1 824.3 878.3 803.3
The closing order book at the year end of £878.3 million represents 
a 9% increase on the previous year end. This reﬂ ects an increase 
in demand for the Group’s products during the year, and provides 
a solid base for the growth expected in the current ﬁ nancial year. 
Since most of the Group’s contracts are annual contracts with 
delivery periods from six to twelve months following receipt of 
order, the order book represents a good leading indicator of the 
revenues that will be traded in the following twelve months.
Divisional operating proﬁ t**
2011
£m
2010
£m
Counter-IED 31.9 28.1
Countermeasures 46.7 58.8
Pyrotechnics 32.4 40.1
Munitions 40.8 20.9
Total 151.8 147.9
**  Operating proﬁ ts of the divisions are stated before charges for unallocated 
corporate costs and non-underlying items (see Note 5)
The divisional operating proﬁ t provides a consistent year-on-year 
measure of the trading performance of the divisions within the 
Group. It does not include signiﬁ cant non-recurring or exceptional 
costs that would distort a comparative assessment nor does it 
include unallocated corporate costs associated with operating a 
public company. The divisional operating proﬁ t increased by 3% 
during the year.
Return on sales 
2011
%
2010
%
Counter-IED 19 25
Countermeasures 23 30
Pyrotechnics 23 24
Munitions 17 18
Total 20 25
The return on sales percentage is a vital measure that provides 
an assessment of the proﬁ tability of the business and allows a 
comparison to be made of management performance and trading 
effectiveness independent of revenue size. Such a measure provides 
a clear indicator of whether revenue growth has occurred at the 
expense of proﬁ t or whether market conditions, such as competitive 
pressures, have made an impact. The divisions have largely 
maintained their return on sales at core businesses consistent with 
last year. However, the Counter-IED division was impacted by lower 
margins at NIITEK, where the very late cost auditing of the HMDS 
contracts disallowed any gains from risk mitigation and efﬁ ciency 
performance, and the Countermeasures and Munitions divisions 
were affected by the full year impact of the 2010 acquisitions of 
Roke and Mecar respectively, which both have lower margins.
Underlying earnings per share*
2011 2010
 As restated
#
Total 52.1p 49.8p
Growth rate 5% 15%
Underlying earnings per share is a key measure for the Group and 
forms the basis for executive incentive plans. Growth in earnings 
per share is considered the key measure in assessing the increase 
in shareholder value.
Interest cover
2011 2010
Total 8.7 times 7.3 times
Interest cover provides a clear and simple metric of the ratio 
between the operating proﬁ t generated by trading, compared 
with the funding requirement to maintain the current debt. It is an 
important indicator for the Group and forms the basis of one of our 
speciﬁ ed banking covenants, which requires us to maintain at all 
times interest cover of at least 4 times. Net ﬁ nance expense was 
covered 8.7 times by underlying operating proﬁ t* at the year end. 
The Board aims to keep interest cover at a prudent level.
Underlying operating cash ﬂ ow
2011
£m
 2010
 £m
 As restated
#
Total cash ﬂ ow 124.6 128.0
Conversion from operating proﬁ t 88% 93%
Operating cash ﬂ ow provides a simple measure of the cash generated 
by trading within the businesses. It represents the money available 
to fund capital expenditure, interest payments, tax and shareholder 
dividends. In our short cycle business, operating cash conversion 
closely follows operating proﬁ t and the Group usually targets a rate 
above 90%. The Group operating cash ﬂ ow decreased by 3% to 
£124.6 million during the year. This represents a conversion rate of 
underlying operating proﬁ t* to operating cash of 88% (2010: 93%).
* Before non-underlying items (see Note 6)
#
  The 2010 ﬁ gures have been restated to reﬂ ect the reclassiﬁ cation of certain items 
from underlying to non-underlying (see Note 6) Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
27
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Principal risks and uncertainties
As described on page 51 and 52, the Board is responsible for the Group’s systems of internal control and its risk management systems. 
The Board has constituted a Risk Management Committee, which meets quarterly, to review the key risks associated with the achievement 
of the annual budget and the ﬁ ve year plan for each business; the top ﬁ ve health and safety risks identiﬁ ed at each site; and the risk control 
procedures implemented. The Committee reports biannually to the Audit Committee and the Board and, through this process, the Board 
has identiﬁ ed the following principal risks currently facing the Group. The mitigating actions taken by the Group management to address 
these risks are also set out below. The Group mitigates its risk exposure through an insurance programme that covers property and liability 
risks, where it is appropriate and cost effective to do so.
Risk Mitigation actions
Health and safety risks
The nature of those Group operations 
which utilise energetic materials is 
such that the Board considers health 
and safety to be a key area of focus in 
managing risk.
Health and safety is included on the agenda at every Board meeting and is discussed at the 
monthly Group Executive Committee meeting. The Board believes that responsibility for 
the delivery of world class safety standards is an integral part of operational management 
accountability, and managers are therefore expected to embrace a positive safety culture 
and to demonstrate leadership and commitment in the workplace. All employees are 
encouraged to report potential hazards, and to raise any health and safety concerns 
through the appropriate channels.
Our stated aim is to achieve zero injuries and to reduce health and safety risks, 
where they cannot be eliminated altogether, to a level which is “as low as reasonably 
practicable”. All businesses are expected to proactively manage their own risks but 
in addition, the top ﬁ ve site risks at each business and their associated mitigation 
programmes are reviewed on a monthly basis by the Group Executive Committee and 
quarterly by the Risk Management Committee. Technology and automation roadmaps 
support the Group’s strategy for risk reduction through increased automation and 
remote operations, and this strategy is reﬂ ected in the Group’s ﬁ ve year plan.
Further details on the Group’s approach to health and safety are set out in the Corporate 
Responsibility Review. 
Possible defence budget cuts
We recognise that with large budget 
deﬁ cits and the prevailing economic 
conditions, there will be continued 
downward pressure on many countries’ 
budgets and consequently defence 
expenditure could be severely impacted. 
In particular, the Group has signiﬁ cant 
exposure to the US defence market, 
where there is currently considerable 
uncertainty in relation to the defence 
budget for 2013.
In recognition of the issues affecting our traditional NATO markets, we are focusing 
our growth strategy on non-NATO markets, where defence expenditure is forecast to 
grow strongly over the next ﬁ ve to ten years. We are making good progress on the 
establishment of a joint venture in India, and we are also in discussions with potential 
joint venture partners in Saudi Arabia and Brazil.
We also continually assess whether our planned organic growth strategies and product 
developments align with government priorities for future funding. Most of our product 
development programmes take between six and twelve months to complete, and we 
believe that this gives the Board the agility to quickly re-deploy engineering staff to 
product areas where funding is more secure.
We continue to closely monitor the position in all the key markets in which we operate.
Timing of orders
The Group has a strong order book. 
In general, the majority of the Group’s 
contracts are of a relatively short duration 
and, with the exception of framework 
contracts with key customers, do not 
usually cover multi-year requirements. 
This means that an unmitigated delay in 
the receipt of key orders could affect the 
Group’s earnings, and achievement of its 
growth targets, in any given ﬁ nancial year. 
We have already experienced delays in 
the placement of orders by our traditional 
NATO customers, due to budgetary 
constraints, and this is likely to continue 
in the short to medium term. 
As referred to above, we are focusing on expanding our business in non-NATO markets, 
where defence expenditure is forecast to increase, and the composition of our current 
order book reﬂ ects a higher level of orders from non-NATO customers.
Maximising order intake remains a key objective for our businesses, and we continue 
to address this through the strengthening of our sales and marketing resources, both 
within individual businesses and at a divisional level.
The development of world class manufacturing facilities, with the ability to transfer 
manufacturing across sites and with an efﬁ cient enterprise resource planning system, 
also provides us with the ﬂ exibility to change our manufacturing schedules, if anticipated 
orders are delayed and need to be replaced at short notice, and to satisfy our customers’ 
surge requirements.
We continue to pursue long term, multi-year contracts with our major customers 
wherever possible. Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
28
Risk Mitigation actions
Political risks
It is recognised that political unrest 
and changes in the political structure 
in certain non-NATO countries to which 
we currently sell could impact on their 
future defence expenditure strategy 
and our ability to export products to 
these countries, thereby reducing our 
opportunities for growth.
It is also recognised that the nature of the 
current military operations around the 
world may change over the next three to 
ﬁ ve years.
Our businesses strive to maintain relationships at all levels within the political structure 
of certain key countries, in order to ensure that we are aware of and can counter 
proposed changes if and when they occur.
We do not believe that the Group’s Countermeasures business will be signiﬁ cantly 
impacted by a change in current military operations, as our products will still be required 
to provide defensive protection during continuing peacekeeping activities. Growth in the 
Countermeasures division will be delivered as our proprietary products are ﬁ tted to a 
range of new platforms in Europe and the US.
The Group’s Counter-IED, Pyrotechnics and Munitions businesses are less dependent 
on active military operations, particularly as our electronics activities expand and 
our product portfolio continues to grow in areas such as IED-detection, space, safety 
systems, training, munitions components and naval ammunition.
Introduction of new 
manufacturing facilities
We are currently investing signiﬁ cant 
capital expenditure in the establishment 
of new manufacturing facilities in the UK, 
the US, Italy and Australia. We need to 
ensure that these facilities are completed 
within budget and on time, in order to 
maximise our manufacturing capacity for 
our future growth expectations. 
Progress on all of the signiﬁ cant capital investment projects is being closely monitored 
by the Group Executive Committee and the Board.
A Senior Project Director has been appointed to oversee the design and construction 
activities for the new countermeasures facilities in the UK and Australia, and dedicated 
project managers have been appointed to oversee the other major programmes in the 
US and continental Europe.
The new countermeasures facilities have taken slightly longer to complete than 
originally expected, principally due to the signiﬁ cant challenges associated with the new 
automated processes which are being installed, but both the UK and Australian facilities 
should now be commissioned during 2012.
Introduction of new products
The Group’s approach to innovation and 
continued emphasis on research and 
development activity ensure that we are 
continually adding new products to the 
range. We need to ensure that this new 
product development is completed in a 
timely manner to a standard which allows 
us to undertake volume manufacturing, 
and to produce products against high 
reliability and safety criteria to meet our 
customers’ requirements.
We continue to strengthen our engineering resources to ensure that we have the right 
people in place to deliver the product development activities in support of our ﬁ ve 
year plan.
In the UK, we have a ﬁ ve year research partnership with Cranﬁ eld University, looking 
at new technologies and products for future development. We also have smaller 
partnerships with a number of US universities, including the Georgia Technology & 
Research Institute, University of Massachusetts, Penn. State University, Duke University, 
University of Florida, University of Louisville, Missouri University, South Dakota School 
of Mines, and the New Jersey Institute of Technology.
We continue to build new manufacturing facilities to accommodate the production 
of new products, and to increase capacity on our existing production lines. 
This necessitates careful management of contractors – where construction work is 
being undertaken; suppliers – where new components have to be qualiﬁ ed for use in 
our products; and employees – where training in new skills is required. We continue 
to introduce Six Sigma techniques as appropriate within the organisation to improve 
our manufacturing capabilities. This investment in new facilities will continue over the 
course of our ﬁ ve year plan.
Principal risks and uncertainties
continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
29
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Risk Mitigation actions
Competitive risks
Defence is a global industry, which 
is constantly challenged to counter 
ever-changing threats. The Group’s 
strategy is to focus on targeted niche 
markets in energetic materials and 
protective systems, where the nature 
of the products and the requisite 
production and qualiﬁ cation processes 
provide signiﬁ cant barriers to new 
entrants. However, as threats evolve, new 
businesses offering new solutions may 
enter the market.
The nature of the threat from missiles and other weapons is continually changing, 
particularly as new platforms are introduced in different countries, and countermeasure 
solutions need to develop on an ongoing basis to meet the enhanced requirements. 
The number of countermeasures manufacturers is currently small, however, as 
technologies change, existing manufacturers are able to compete for new products 
and new businesses can also enter into the market. The Group is currently the world 
leader in the supply and manufacture of expendable countermeasures, with a number 
of proprietary products. We intend to maintain this position through our continued 
investment in research and development, and world class manufacturing facilities.
The competitive threats to our Pyrotechnics and Munitions businesses are generally 
lower, as the markets are fragmented and our competitors are generally companies with 
national market positions and limited product ranges. Our Counter-IED businesses need 
to continually develop next generation systems in order to address emerging threats, 
and this provides an opportunity for new competitors to emerge. However, the detection 
systems produced by NIITEK in particular are extensively used in-theatre, and this 
provides a good platform from which to capture the future market.
Our core strategy is to grow our business by taking market share and we are, therefore, 
strongly focused on our research and development activities to ensure we have next 
generation products available at the right time. We also invest substantial funds to 
enhance our manufacturing capabilities, in order to maintain our leading position in our 
niche technologies and markets.
Management resource
The Group requires competent 
management if it is to achieve its growth 
expectations, successfully integrate its 
acquired businesses and meet its order 
capture targets. The Board has identiﬁ ed, 
in particular, that the Group needs to 
strengthen its sales and marketing 
resources, in order to maximise order 
intake as explained above, and its 
engineering resources, in order to 
undertake the product development 
activities needed to support the Group’s 
ﬁ ve year plan.
The Group Executive Committee reviews the strengths and weaknesses of the 
management team at each business twice a year, and the Board undertakes an annual 
review of future requirements and succession planning as part of the strategic planning 
process. We continue to strengthen the management organisation across the Group, and 
a number of additional senior appointments have been made during the year.
We undertake a speciﬁ c detailed review of our future sales and marketing and 
engineering resource requirements each year, and we are actively recruiting in each of 
these areas. During the year, we also undertook a review of the future requirements for 
our ﬁ nance and IT functions, and we have implemented a new long term IT strategy that 
will respond to the future expansion of the Group.
Compliance and corruption risks
The Group operates in over eighty 
countries worldwide, and is subject to 
the laws and regulations of each of these 
countries. The Group must ensure that 
all of its businesses, its employees and 
third parties acting on its behalf comply 
with their legal obligations, and do not 
expose the Group to ﬁ nancial penalties 
or reputational damage.
The Group has a central legal and compliance function which assists and monitors all 
Group businesses, assisted by dedicated internal legal resource in the US. The Group’s 
internal audit activities also incorporate a review of legal risks.
The Group has a Global Code of Business Principles, which stipulates the standard 
of acceptable business conduct required from all of our employees and third parties 
acting on our behalf. The Group has also adopted a Bribery Act Compliance Manual, 
incorporating all of our anti-bribery policies and procedures.
A signiﬁ cant proportion of the Group’s management have received training in relation to 
ethics and anti-corruption.
Financial risks
Details of the ﬁ nancial risks to which the 
Group is potentially exposed are set out in 
Note 25 of the ﬁ nancial statements. Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
30
Corporate Responsibility Review
Our approach
The Group acknowledges its obligation to ensure the responsible 
operation of its business at all times, and is fully committed 
to sound and ethical business conduct in its interaction 
with key stakeholders (shareholders, employees, customers, 
business partners and suppliers), governments and regulators, 
communities and society, and the environment.
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining 
the Group’s policies in this area, and the Chief Executive is 
accountable to the Board for ensuring that the Group’s businesses 
adhere to these policies.
The Board recognises that the long term success of the Group will 
be enhanced by a positive interaction with all our stakeholders, and 
has determined that the Group’s corporate responsibility initiatives 
should be focused on the following key areas:
• Health and safety
• Employee support and development
• Environmental protection
• Ethical business conduct
We intend that our corporate responsibility approach should be 
fully embedded within our businesses, and our senior management 
bonus plan incorporates speciﬁ c objectives in the above areas.
Further details of our approach are set out below.
In the workplace
Health and safety
Our policy and practices
The Board recognises that the highest levels of safety are required 
in order to protect our employees, product end users and the 
general public, whilst achieving growth and maintaining leadership 
in the Group’s chosen markets. The Board believes that all incidents 
and injuries are preventable, and that all employees have the right 
to return home safely at the end of every working day. The long 
term strategies we have adopted are designed to ensure that we 
continually improve our performance and reduce risk.
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for health, safety and 
environmental matters across the Group. The Group Director of 
Safety reports directly to the Chief Executive, and is responsible 
for the effective administration and implementation of the Group’s 
health, safety and environment strategy. The Group Director of 
Safety is a member of the Group Executive Committee and reports 
on the performance of all businesses against agreed targets and 
objectives. The Chief Executive reports monthly to the Board on all 
key health and safety issues.
The Board requires that all businesses systematically manage their 
health and safety hazards, set objectives, monitor progress by 
regular measurement, audit and review, and take additional action 
where necessary. Each Managing Director is responsible for the 
management of health and safety within their business, and for 
providing adequate resources to satisfy the Board’s requirements. 
All Managing Directors have health and safety related objectives 
incorporated within their annual bonus plan. Managers in our 
businesses are required to enforce procedures, and to provide 
leadership and commitment to promote and embrace a positive 
health and safety culture. We emphasise the importance of 
individual responsibility for health and safety at all levels of the 
organisation, and expect employees to report potential hazards, 
to be involved in implementing solutions, and to adhere to rules 
and procedures.
We recognise that a key element in the continual improvement 
of health and safety management is sharing best practice and 
lessons learnt from incidents across all of the Group’s companies. 
An alert system is in place that formally ensures key ﬁ ndings 
from incidents are quickly communicated to all operational sites 
and actions taken as appropriate. All accidents, incidents and 
near misses are investigated, with actions generated to prevent 
recurrence. A Health, Safety and Environment Technical Group, 
with representatives from across all our businesses, supports 
continual improvement through the development and promotion 
of good health and safety practice.
Compliance audits are conducted at all Group facilities using 
external consultancy ﬁ rms. All ﬁ ndings are subject to corrective 
action reviews to ensure closure, and added to a ﬁ ndings database 
which is shared across the Group.
The Group’s policy is to have all of our businesses certiﬁ ed to the 
international health and safety management system OHSAS18001, 
with all newly acquired businesses certiﬁ ed within two years of 
acquisition. We are fully compliant with this objective.
Safety is a major item for consideration by the Group’s Risk 
Management Committee. All businesses are required to produce 
a risk register, from which the top ﬁ ve health and safety risks and 
improvement actions to reduce the risks to as low as reasonably 
practicable are reviewed on a monthly basis.
The Group has committed to substantial investments in 
manufacturing facilities that will, in addition to improving 
productivity, improve the safety of the workforce by reducing the 
levels of risk. We apply particular attention to those facilities that 
compare unfavourably with their peers, and systems and processes 
are in place to facilitate the sharing of information across the 
Group. Our ongoing safety improvement activities are focused on 
ensuring that our buildings, processes and products are as safe as 
reasonably practicable for our employees and product users.
Our performance
Energetic events causing injury
Whilst we take all incidents seriously, we pay particular attention to 
those where employees sustain injury due to an energetic event.
In September 2010, a ﬁ re at our Kilgore facility in Toone, Tennessee 
resulted in three employees sustaining serious injury. Sadly, one of 
the employees passed away in September 2011. Since the incident, 
we have worked hard at Kilgore, and other related sites, to ensure 
that all lessons learnt are fully implemented.
During the year under review, we had one incident involving 
an energetic event that resulted in lost time. At our Chemring 
Ordnance facility in Perry, Florida, an operator was hurt when a 
trip ﬂ are ignited inside her booth, causing a ﬂ ash which burned the 
operator’s hand and ﬁ ngers. She returned to work after seven days.
Energetic events not causing injury
We had no energetic events during the year that caused signiﬁ cant 
damage to buildings or equipment.
Other lost time events
We collect and report lost time incident rates using the US 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) rules. Last 
year we reported a lost time incident rate of 1.06 incidents per 100 
employees. When the statistics for the businesses acquired in 2010 
were included, this rate increased to 1.67. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
31
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
After considerable time and attention (and excluding the newly 
acquired Chemring Detection Systems business), the Group’s lost 
time incident rate improved by 20% from 1.67 to 1.32 incidents per 
100 employees during the year. With the inclusion of the Chemring 
Detection Systems business, the rate reduces to 1.28. Eight of our 
sites (six last year) reported no lost work days in the year, which is 
an excellent achievement.
Our historical lost time incident rate performance is shown below:
Lost time incident rate performance
0
2.0
1.5
1.0
Incidents per 100 employees
0.5
2005 2006 2007 2008 2010 2011 2009
A total of ﬁ fty lost time incidents were recorded in the year, 
categorised as follows:
0
12
Slip, trip, fall
Energetic
Strain, sprain
Repetitive strain
Laceration/graze
Crush
Skin exposure to substance
Struck against object
8
Incidents
4
10
6
2
Employees
The Board recognises the valuable contribution that the Group’s 
employees continue to make to its success, and aims to provide a 
working environment that reﬂ ects and rewards this. The Group now 
has 4,679 (2010: 4,283) employees based in eight countries.
Employment practices
The Group’s policy is to provide equal opportunities for all 
employees, irrespective of race, nationality, gender, sexual 
orientation, marital status, religion or political belief, disability or 
age. The Group is committed to meeting, at a minimum, the labour 
rights and legislation requirements in each country in which it 
operates and, in practice, often exceeds these. Our employment 
practices policies are introduced at newly-acquired businesses at 
the earliest opportunity after they join the Group.
In 2011, two new female directors were appointed to the Board. 
The Board recognises the importance of promoting diversity across 
the Group, and is committed to achieving a minimum of at least 
25% female representation on the Board by 2013.
Male  66%
Female  34%
Gender diversity
  
White  71%
Non-white  29%
Ethnic diversity
  
Development and training
We continue to address training and development requirements for 
employees at all levels within the organisation. All of our businesses 
consider training needs for their employees at a local level, in order 
to ensure that they have the right skill base to deliver their ﬁ ve 
year strategic plan. The Board also undertakes a detailed review 
of the future management requirements and succession plans as 
part of the annual strategic planning process. Speciﬁ c plans have 
been developed in relation to sales and marketing, and engineering 
resources, in order to identify the requirements for future 
recruitment and development of our existing employees in these 
areas, and to ensure that we have the right capabilities to meet our 
future growth targets.
Our undergraduate “year in industry” placement scheme continues 
to be successful, and we aim to extend this programme each 
year. We are developing our graduate recruitment initiatives, and 
our acquisition of Roke, which has a well-established and highly 
successful graduate programme, has been of considerable beneﬁ t 
in this area.
Beneﬁ ts
We aim to provide all of our employees with an attractive and 
competitive beneﬁ ts package. Almost all of our businesses offer 
occupational pension scheme arrangements and our US employees 
receive health care. A number of our businesses offer health 
screening services and other health-related initiatives such as 
“stop-smoking” clinics.
The Board is keen to encourage employees to join share schemes 
in order that they can share in the future success of the Group, 
and we therefore offer savings-related share plans to our UK and 
US employees.
Communications
The Group pursues a policy of employee communication through 
meetings (including team brieﬁ ngs and works councils) and in-house 
magazines by which employees are made aware of the progress of 
the Group and the companies in which they work. We also engage 
with our employees through representative bodies and trade unions.
Employee surveys are undertaken in relation to speciﬁ c matters, 
such as health and safety, from time to time.
A Group magazine, The Chemring Eye, is published on a quarterly 
basis and distributed to all of our employees. Business overview
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
32
Corporate Responsibility Review
continued
In the environment
Our policy and practices
The Board believes that protecting the environment by minimising 
our environmental impact will help to secure the long term future 
of our businesses.
The Group’s policy is to have all of our businesses certiﬁ ed to 
the environmental management system ISO14001, with all newly 
acquired businesses certiﬁ ed within two years of acquisition. 
We are fully compliant with this objective. ISO14001 requires the 
setting of environmental goals and objectives focused on local 
aspects and impact and in addition, we set expectations and 
monitor performance across the Group.
Land quality
The Chemring Energetic Devices (formerly Scot) facility, which is 
based in Downers Grove, Illinois, USA, is located on a site which 
has “superfund” status under the US contaminated land (CERCLA) 
regime. We continue to work with external consultants and the 
regulatory authorities to ensure that the legal obligations of the 
business in relation to this matter are fully satisﬁ ed.
Our Mecar business in Belgium has been working with its local 
regulator for some time to remediate historical contamination. 
It is anticipated that this will be an ongoing activity.
The Group carries a £2.7 million provision in respect of these 
pre-acquisition environmental liabilities, which the Board considers 
to be adequate (see Note 26 of the ﬁ nancial statements).
Incidents
There were no signiﬁ cant environmental incidents in the year.
Performance
Energy and emissions
We have calculated that business travel represents less than 3% 
of our overall carbon footprint, and we therefore focus our efforts 
on energy utilisation in our facilities. We do not include emissions 
from our supply chain nor use or disposal of products in our carbon 
footprint calculation.
Our total emissions during the year in carbon dioxide equivalents, 
excluding those of businesses acquired during the year, were 
as follows:
Source
2011
(tonnes CO
2
)
2010
(tonnes CO
2
)
2009
(tonnes CO
2
)
2008
(tonnes CO
2
)
Electricity 46,459 38,303 36,334 29,128
Gas 14,676 14,033 12,512 12,384
Oil 7,222 3,111 2,008 2,351
Total 68,357 55,447 50,854 43,863
The Group’s total emissions increased by 20% against a strong 
increase in revenue, which means that our overall carbon intensity 
reduced as follows:
2011 2010 2009 2008
Total emissions (tonnes) 68,357 55,447 50,854 43,863
Group revenue (£million)* 730 571 504 354
Tonnes of CO
2
per £million of revenue 94 97 101 124
* Group revenue for 2011 and 2010 excludes revenue attributable to acquisitions
We are increasing our efforts to address energy conservation and 
thus indirect emissions. All sites have analysed their top energy 
consuming plant or buildings and created energy reduction 
programmes for the top ﬁ ve. Together, these represent more 
than 30% of the Group’s total energy consumption.
All UK facilities participate in the Carbon Reduction Commitment 
programme, with the exception of Chemring Energetics UK at Ardeer 
in Scotland, which operates under a Climate Change Agreement.
The Group participated in the 2011 Carbon Disclosure Project.
Waste
Our total waste generation, excluding the recently acquired 
Chemring Detection Systems, increased during the year as a result 
of the inclusion of the businesses acquired during 2010 and our 
ongoing construction and renewal programmes.
2011
(tonnes waste)
2010
(tonnes waste)
2009
(tonnes waste)
Recycled, non-hazardous 1,684 712 Not available
Recycled, hazardous 415 369 Not available
Not recycled, 
non-hazardous 1,018 1,161 Not available
Not recycled, hazardous 388 360 Not available
Total 3,505 2,602 1,876
Many of our facilities are permitted to burn waste materials on 
site within closely controlled facilities. We offer a collection service 
in the UK for time-expired marine pyrotechnics, including those 
produced by other manufacturers and these are transferred to an 
accredited third party for disposal.
The Group is currently investing in a new demilitarisation facility 
in Italy, which will allow the return of time-expired and obsolete 
munitions for decommissioning and disassembly. The individual 
materials will then be recycled back into the supply chain.
Water
Despite substantial revenue growth during the year, our absolute 
water consumption (excluding Chemring Detection Systems) 
continued to decline.
2011
(m
3
)
2010
(m
3
)
2009
(m
3
)
Total water consumption 1,441,000 1,550,000 1,762,000
In the community
Helping others
The Board recognises that each of the Group’s businesses has an 
important role to play in its local community.
The Board operates a charitable policy, which conﬁ rms its 
commitment to support selected charitable causes with a focus 
on the military and armed services, and those linked to the local 
communities in which the Group’s businesses operate. Each business 
has its own locally held charity budget, and at a Group level, 
charitable donations are considered on a monthly basis by the 
Executive Committee. Examples of support provided during the 
year include:
• Donations to a range of charities including Help for Heroes, 
SSAFA, The Army Benevolent Fund, Supporting Royal Marines, 
Queen Alexandra Hospital Home for Ex-Service Personnel, 
Houses for Heroes Appeal, various health and cancer charities, 
local hospitals and schools.
• Sponsorship of the 7 Air Assault Battalion Royal Electrical and 
Mechanical Engineers (REME) Field Gun Crew, the Red Devils, the 
Combined Services Under 23 Rugby Team and the Royal Artillery 
Gold Cup Day – all part of Team Army.
• Sponsorship of the UK Aerospace Youth Rocketry Challenge.
• Sponsorship of Portsmouth Festivities. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
33
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
In addition to making cash donations, the Group also encourages 
and supports employees who undertake voluntary work in the local 
community, where appropriate. During the year, our employees 
donated their time and services on a wide range of projects, several 
of which had an educational bias.
The Group is involved with a number of educational initiatives, 
notably including the sponsorship of various local schools. The Group 
has a partnership agreement with Cranﬁ eld University, under which 
the Group has committed to the provision of signiﬁ cant funding for 
students’ research activities over a ﬁ ve year period.
With regards to the impact of our manufacturing activities on 
the local community, at locations where our operations may 
inconvenience neighbours through product prooﬁ ng, we liaise with 
local residents to minimise any impact. We are also cognisant of the 
potential impact of our operations on the local environment, and 
we are addressing this through our environmental strategy.
In the marketplace
Policy on the Sale of Goods and Services
The Group’s vision is to become the leading producer of protection 
systems and energetic products for the global defence market, and 
we continue to deliver growth in this area through a combination 
of organic development and acquisitions. The scope of the Group’s 
activities has broadened signiﬁ cantly in recent years, particularly 
with regards to the supply of components and sub-systems for 
various types of munitions, and there is increasing demand for the 
supply to our customers of third party products. Consequently, 
the Board has adopted a Policy on the Sale of Goods and Services, 
which provides guidance to all stakeholders on the products and 
services that the Group will supply, to which customers and to 
which countries, and sets out a clear deﬁ nition of what we will not 
supply. All Group businesses are required to comply with this policy, 
which addresses both legal and ethical considerations with regards 
to certain products.
Ethics and business conduct
The Group has adopted a Global Code of Business Principles, 
which requires our employees, our businesses and all third parties 
who act on our behalf to comply with our standards of acceptable 
business conduct and applicable laws and regulations in all of the 
countries in which we operate.
The managing directors of each business are required to report to 
the Chief Executive on compliance with the Global Code of Business 
Principles on an annual basis.
Anti-bribery and corruption
Following implementation of the UK Bribery Act 2010, the Group 
adopted a Bribery Act Compliance Manual, consolidating our 
previous anti-corruption policies and procedures which were 
aligned to the European Aerospace and Defence Association’s 
Common Industry Standards on Anti-Corruption. Our anti-bribery 
programme now incorporates the following:
• Requirements for bribery risk assessments to be carried out as 
part of normal operating procedures.
• Group-wide policies and procedures on the appointment of all 
sales partners and other third party advisers, stipulating due 
diligence and contractual requirements, approval levels, and 
monitoring and review processes.
• Regular training for management and employees working 
within commercial, sales and marketing, ﬁ nance and human 
resource functions.
• Policies and procedures on the giving and receiving of gifts 
and hospitality.
Our US businesses have also adopted an ethical compliance 
programme to satisfy US government requirements for ethical 
training for employees, compliance audits, a conﬁ dential reporting 
line for employees, and related investigation procedures.
The Group has a whistleblowing policy and procedures in place 
which enable all employees to raise concerns, in conﬁ dence, 
about possible improprieties. These arrangements reﬂ ect the 
requirements of the UK Bribery Act 2010. Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
34
Directors and corporate information
David R Evans
Non-Executive Director
Joined the Group in 1987 
as Managing Director of 
the Countermeasures 
business and appointed 
to the Board in 1988. 
Prior to joining the Group 
he was a Managing 
Director of GEC-Marconi’s 
division responsible for 
torpedos. He took up 
his current position as a 
non-executive director in 
April 2005, after stepping 
down as Chief Executive, 
a position he had held 
since January 1999. 
Currently a non-executive 
director and Chairman 
designate of Avon Rubber 
plc, and previously a 
non-executive director 
of Whatman PLC.
Aged 65.
Peter C F Hickson~+
Non-Executive 
Chairman
Joined the Group 
as a non-executive 
director on 1 July 2010 
and was appointed 
Chairman of the Board 
on 1 October 2010. 
Currently Chairman of 
Communisis plc and a 
non-executive director 
of UK Coal plc. He has 
had senior management 
experience with a number 
of large international 
companies, and previous 
appointments include 
Chairman of Anglian 
Water Group, Senior 
Independent Director 
of London & Continental 
Railways Ltd, Finance 
Director of Powergen 
plc and non-executive 
directorships of Scottish 
Power plc, Marconi 
Corporation plc, RAC plc 
and Kazakhymys PLC. 
He is also a trustee 
and Board member of 
Orbis Charitable Trust, 
the international sight 
saving charity, and a 
Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants.
Aged 66.
Dr David J Price 
CBE DSc PhD CEng CSci
Chief Executive
Joined the Group in April 
2005 as Chief Executive. 
He is also a non-executive 
director of AZ Electronics 
Materials S.A. and a 
member of the Council for 
Southampton University. 
Formerly Managing 
Director, Naval Marine 
at Rolls-Royce plc and 
Managing Director of 
Thomson (UK) Holdings 
Ltd (now part of the 
Thales Group). Fellow 
of the Institute of 
Engineering & Technology, 
the Institute of Marine 
Engineering, Science 
& Technology, the 
Institute of Directors, 
and Companion 
of the Chartered 
Management Institute.
Aged 56.
Paul A Rayner FCA
Finance Director
Joined the Group in 
June 1994 and acted 
as Finance Director to 
several Group companies 
before being appointed 
to the Board in August 
1999. Formerly a Senior 
Audit Manager with 
Deloitte LLP. Fellow of 
the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants.
Aged 50.
Sarah L Ellard FCIS
Group Legal Director & 
Company Secretary
Joined the Group in 
1994, and was appointed 
as the Group Company 
Secretary in 1998. 
She was appointed to the 
Board on 7 October 2011. 
Prior to joining the Group, 
she trained and worked 
at Ernst & Young LLP. 
Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Secretaries 
and Administrators.
Aged 41.
Membership of Board committees: * Audit, ~ Remuneration, + Nomination Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
35
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The Rt Hon
Lord Freeman*~
Non-Executive Director
Joined the Group as a 
non-executive director 
in May 2006. Chairman 
of the Audit Committee. 
Currently a Consultant 
(formerly Partner) to 
PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
Chairman of Thales UK 
Advisory Board and a 
non-executive director of 
Savile Group PLC. He is 
also on the main Board 
of Thales S.A., France. 
Partner with Lehman 
Brothers Investment 
Bankers between 1969 
and 1985. Member of 
Parliament from 1983 
to 1997. Made a Privy 
Councillor in 1993. 
Minister 1985-1997.
Aged 69.
Ian F R Much*~+
Non-Executive Director
Joined the Group as a 
non-executive director in 
December 2004. Senior 
Independent Director 
and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. 
Previous appointments 
include Chief Executive 
of De La Rue plc and 
T&N plc, and non-executive 
directorships of 
Admiral plc, Camelot plc, 
Manchester United plc 
and Simplyhealth 
Group Ltd. Currently 
Senior Independent 
Director and Chairman 
of the Remuneration 
Committee of Senior plc, 
and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee 
of BTG plc.
Aged 67.
Air Marshal
Sir Peter Norriss 
KBE CB AFC MA 
FRAeS*~+
Non-Executive Director
Joined the Group as a 
non-executive director in 
May 2004. Currently a 
consultant to Tessella plc 
and a Senior Adviser to 
Newton. He is also a 
member of major 
programme review 
teams for the Ofﬁ ce of 
Government Commerce 
and an adviser or 
court member at four 
universities. Formerly 
Deputy Chief of Defence 
Procurement (Operations) 
and Controller Aircraft on 
the Air Force Board. 
Past President of the 
Royal Aeronautical 
Society (2003-4).
Aged 67.
Vanda Murray OBE*~
Non-Executive Director
Joined the Group as 
non-executive director 
on 1 November 2011. 
Currently holds a 
portfolio of non-executive 
directorships, including 
Carillion plc, where she 
chairs the Remuneration 
Committee, The 
Manchester Airport 
Group plc and Microgen 
plc. She has also been 
appointed to the Board 
of Fenner plc as senior 
non-executive director 
and takes up this role in 
January 2012. Previous 
appointments include 
Deputy Chairman of the 
North West Regional 
Development Agency, 
non-executive director of 
SIG plc, Chief Executive 
Ofﬁ cer of Blick plc and 
UK Managing Director 
of Ultraframe PLC. 
She is a Fellow of the 
Chartered Institute of 
Marketing, and in 2002 
was appointed OBE for 
Services to Industry and 
to Export.
Aged 51.
Headquarters and 
registered ofﬁ ce
Chemring House 
1500 Parkway
Whiteley
Fareham
Hampshire
PO15 7AF
England
Tel: +44 1489 881880
Fax: +44 1489 881123
Website: 
www.chemring.co.uk
Registration number
86662
Registrars
Computershare Investor 
Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol 
BS13 8AE Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
36
Directors’ Report
for the year ended 31 October 2011
The directors present their annual report, together with the audited 
ﬁ nancial statements of the Group and the Company for the year 
ended 31 October 2011.
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group are the design, manufacture 
and sale of counter-IED equipment, countermeasures, pyrotechnics 
and munitions.
Business review
The Statement by the Chairman, the Review by the Chief 
Executive and the Review by the Finance Director, together 
with the sections of the annual report on each of the business 
segments, key performance indicators and principal risks, and 
the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 4 to 33, provide a 
review of the Group’s business development, performance and 
position during and at the end of the ﬁ nancial year; its strategy 
and likely future development; key performance indicators; and 
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the 
business. Further information regarding ﬁ nancial risk management 
policies and ﬁ nancial instruments is given in Note 25 of the ﬁ nancial 
statements. There have been no signiﬁ cant events since the 
balance sheet date.
Results and dividends
The proﬁ t attributable to the Group’s shareholders for the year 
was £73.9 million (2010: £66.7 million). The directors recommend 
a ﬁ nal dividend of 10.8p per ordinary share, which together with 
the interim dividend of 4p per ordinary share paid in August 2011 
gives a total for the year of 14.8p (2010: 11.8p*). The ﬁ nal dividend is 
subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting 
on 21 March 2012, and accordingly has not been included as a 
liability in these ﬁ nancial statements.
Directors and their interests
The present directors are shown on pages 34 and 35.
Mrs S L Ellard was appointed as a director on 7 October 2011 
and Mrs V Murray was appointed as a director on 1 November 
2011. Both of these directors will be seeking re-appointment 
under Article 87.1 of the Company’s Articles of Association at 
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Details of Mrs Ellard’s 
service contract with the Company are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on page 44. Mrs Murray does not have a 
service contract with the Company.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, all 
directors are required to submit themselves for re-election every 
three years. However, in order to ensure compliance with the 
UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors will voluntarily 
submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting.
Details of the service contracts between the Company and the 
executive directors are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on page 44. The non-executive directors do not have 
service contracts with the Company.
The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions 
for the beneﬁ t of its directors, which were effected during the year 
and remain in force at the date of this report.
None of the directors had a beneﬁ cial interest in any contract of 
signiﬁ cance to which the Group was a party during the year ended 
31 October 2011.
Information required as to directors’ shareholdings is set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Substantial shareholdings
At 23 January 2012 the following substantial holdings in the 
ordinary share capital of the Company had been notiﬁ ed to the 
Company in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority:
Name % Interest
Invesco Limited 29.90
Cantillon Capital Management LLC 5.18
Old Mutual Asset Managers 5.13
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 5.07
JP Morgan Chase & Co. 4.94
AXA S.A. and its group of companies 4.84
Standard Life Investments Ltd 4.57
Legal and General Group PLC 3.97
BT Pension Scheme Trustees Ltd as Trustees of the BT 
Pension Scheme 3.84
Hermes Equity Ownership Services Ltd 2.94
Employees and employee consultation
Details of the Group’s employment policies and employee 
consultation practices are set out in the Corporate Responsibility 
Review on page 31.
Charitable and political donations
Charitable donations amounting to £129,000 (2010: £98,400) were 
made during the year. No political donations were made during the 
year £nil (2010: £nil).
Contractual arrangements
The Group contracts with a wide range of customers, comprising 
governments, armed forces, prime contractors and OEMs across the 
globe. The US Department of Defense is the largest single customer, 
and procures the Group’s products under a signiﬁ cant number of 
separate contracts placed with individual Group businesses.
The Group’s businesses utilise many suppliers across the world, and 
arrangements are in place to ensure that businesses are not totally 
reliant on single suppliers for key raw materials or components.
Policy on payment of suppliers
It is the policy of the Group that each of the Group companies 
should agree appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions 
with suppliers. These will range from standard written terms to 
individually negotiated contracts. Creditor days of the Group as at 
31 October 2011 amounted to 49 days (2010: 61 days).
The Chemring Group Performance Share Plan 
(the “PSP”)
The following conditional awards were made under the PSP during 
the year:
Date of award
Total number of
shares awarded
Number of participants 
receiving awards
19 January 2011 693,720* 36
24 October 2011 17,492 1
Total 711,212 37
* Restated to reﬂ ect subdivision of 5p ordinary shares into 1p ordinary shares Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
37
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The Chemring Group 2008 UK Sharesave Plan 
(the “UK Sharesave Plan”)
On 29 July 2011, options were granted over 182,629 ordinary shares. 
Options over 85,885 ordinary shares were exercised during the 
year and options on 40,680 shares lapsed. Additional information 
is set out in Note 32.
The Chemring Group 2008 US Stock Purchase 
Plan (the “US Stock Purchase Plan”)
On 29 July 2011, options were granted over 40,635 ordinary shares. 
Options over 42,111 ordinary shares were exercised during the year 
and options on 20,089 shares lapsed. Additional information is set 
out in Note 32.
Approach to share ownership
The Group actively encourages its employees to share in the 
future success of the Group. A fourth grant of options under 
the UK Sharesave Plan and the US Stock Purchase Plan, which 
were launched in 2008, took place during the year. The Board is 
considering the establishment of similar schemes for employees 
in Group companies outside of the UK and the US.
Share capital and shareholder rights
General
At the Annual General Meeting on 24 March 2011, the shareholders 
approved the subdivision of the Company’s ordinary shares of 5p 
each into ordinary shares of 1p each. The Company’s share capital 
now consists of ordinary shares of 1p each and preference shares 
of £1 each, which are fully paid-up and quoted on the main market 
of the London Stock Exchange. Full details of the movements in the 
issued share capital of the Company during the ﬁ nancial year are 
provided in Note 28 of the ﬁ nancial statements.
All holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and 
vote at any general meeting of the Company and to appoint a 
proxy or proxies to exercise these rights. At a general meeting, 
every shareholder present in person, by proxy or (in the case of a 
corporate member) by corporate representative has one vote on a 
show of hands, and on a poll has one vote for every share held.
To decide who can attend or vote at a general meeting, the notice 
of meeting can give a time, which must not be more than forty eight 
hours before the meeting, by which shareholders must have been 
entered on the register in order to have the right to attend or vote 
at the meeting.
If a shareholder has been properly served with notice under 
section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 (“the Act”) requiring 
information about interests in shares, and has failed to supply 
such information within fourteen days after the service of the 
notice, then the shareholder is not entitled to attend and vote at a 
shareholder meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the 
capital of the Company other than certain restrictions which may 
from time to time be imposed by law, for example insider trading 
law. In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority, certain employees are required to seek the approval of 
the Company to deal in its shares.
The cumulative preference shares carry an entitlement to a 
dividend at the rate of 7p per share per annum, payable in equal 
instalments on 30 April and 31 October each year. Holders of 
the preference shares have the right on winding-up to receive, in 
priority to any other classes of shares, the sum of £1 per share 
together with any arrears of dividends.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of 
securities and/or voting rights.
The Company’s Articles of Association (“the Articles”) may 
only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting 
of shareholders.
Issue of shares
Under the provisions of section 551 of the Act, the Board is 
prevented from exercising its powers under the Articles to allot 
shares without an authority in terms of the Act contained either 
in the Articles or in a resolution of the shareholders in general 
meeting. The authority, when given, can last for a maximum period 
of ﬁ ve years, but the Board proposes that renewal should be 
sought at each Annual General Meeting. Such proposal is set out as 
resolution 13 in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Section 561 of the Act requires that an allotment of shares for cash 
may not be made unless the shares are ﬁ rst offered to existing 
shareholders on a pre-emptive basis in accordance with the terms 
of the Act. In accordance with general practice, to ensure that small 
issues of shares can be made without the necessity of convening 
a general meeting the Board proposes that advantage be taken 
of the provisions of section 571 of the Act to not apply the Act’s 
pre-emptive requirements. Accordingly, a special resolution (set 
out as resolution 14 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting) will 
be proposed which, if passed, will have the effect of granting the 
directors the power to allot not more than 5% of the present issued 
ordinary share capital free of the requirements of section 561 of the 
Act. No issue of these shares will be made which would effectively 
alter the control of the Company without prior approval of the 
shareholders in general meeting.
Purchase of own shares
During the year, the Company purchased 300,000 (2010: 634,400*) 
of its ordinary shares, and 456,855 (2010: 500,055*) ordinary shares 
were distributed following vesting of awards under the Chemring 
Group Performance Share Plan. At 31 October 2011, the Company 
held a total of 1,343,145 ordinary shares in treasury (representing 
0.69% of the ordinary shares in issue on 1 November 2011).
During November 2011 and prior to the start of the close period 
leading up to release of the Company’s full year results, the 
Company purchased 1,000,000 additional ordinary shares for 
treasury. At 23 January 2012, the Company therefore held a total 
of 2,343,145 ordinary shares in treasury (representing 1.2% of 
the ordinary shares in issue on 23 January 2012). All purchases 
of ordinary shares were made by way of market purchases on the 
London Stock Exchange. Further details can be found in Note 30 of 
the ﬁ nancial statements.
A special resolution (set out as resolution 15 in the Notice of Annual 
General Meeting) will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting, to renew the Company’s authority to purchase its 
own shares in the market up to a limit of 10% of its issued ordinary 
share capital. The maximum and minimum prices are stated in the 
resolution. The directors believe that it is advantageous for the 
Company to have this ﬂ exibility to make market purchases of its 
own shares. The directors of the Company may consider holding 
repurchased shares pursuant to the authority conferred by this 
resolution as treasury shares. This will give the Company the ability 
to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost effectively, and will 
provide the Company with additional ﬂ exibility in the management 
of its capital base. Any issues of treasury shares for the purposes 
of the Company’s employee share schemes will be made within the 
10% anti-dilution limit set by the Association of British Insurers. 
* Restated to reﬂ ect subdivision of 5p ordinary shares into 1p ordinary shares. Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
38
Directors’ Report
continued
The directors will only exercise this authority if they are satisﬁ ed 
that a purchase would result in an increase in expected earnings 
per share and would be in the interests of shareholders generally.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report 
and the ﬁ nancial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare ﬁ nancial statements 
for each ﬁ nancial year. Under that law the directors are required 
to prepare the Group ﬁ nancial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have 
elected to prepare the parent company ﬁ nancial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable 
law). Under company law the directors must not approve the 
accounts unless they are satisﬁ ed that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the proﬁ t or loss 
of the Company for that period. In preparing the parent company 
ﬁ nancial statements, the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
• make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
• state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the ﬁ nancial statements; and
• prepare the ﬁ nancial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
In preparing the Group ﬁ nancial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; 
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
speciﬁ c requirements in IFRSs are insufﬁ cient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the entity’s ﬁ nancial position and ﬁ nancial 
performance; and
• make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufﬁ cient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
ﬁ nancial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that 
the ﬁ nancial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and ﬁ nancial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of ﬁ nancial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
We conﬁ rm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the ﬁ nancial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
relevant ﬁ nancial reporting framework, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, ﬁ nancial position and proﬁ t or loss of 
the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
• the Statement by the Chairman, the Review by the Chief 
Executive, the Review by the Finance Director, together with the 
sections of the annual report on each of the business segments, 
key performance indicators and principal risks, and the 
Corporate Responsibility Review, which are cross-referred from 
the Directors’ Report, include a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face.
Provision of information to auditors
Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report 
conﬁ rms that:
• so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
• the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken 
as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are 
aware of that information.
This conﬁ rmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Close company provisions
As far as the directors are aware, the close company provisions of 
the Taxes Acts do not apply to the Group nor has there been any 
change in that respect since 31 October 2011.
Auditors
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors will be proposed 
at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting 
to be held on 21 March 2012, together with explanatory notes, 
appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting sent to 
all shareholders.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 24 January 2012
Signed on behalf of the Board
S L Ellard
Group Legal Director & Company Secretary Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
39
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Directors’ Remuneration Report
for the year ended 31 October 2011
This report sets out the information required by the Companies Act 2006, and Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium Sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008. The Report also satisﬁ es the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules 
of the Financial Services Authority, and describes how the Board has applied the principles and complied with the provisions relating to 
directors’ remuneration in the UK Corporate Governance Code. The Directors’ Remuneration Report will be submitted to shareholders for 
approval at the Annual General Meeting on 21 March 2012.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditors to report to the Company’s members on certain parts of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting 
regulations. The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for the audited and unaudited information.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
Remuneration Committee
During the year under review the Remuneration Committee comprised:
 Mr I F R Much (Committee Chairman)
 Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss
 The Rt Hon Lord Freeman
 Mr P C F Hickson
Mr Hickson, the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board, was considered to be independent on appointment.
Mrs V Murray was also appointed as a member of the Committee on her appointment as a non-executive director on 1 November 2011. 
The Committee’s principal responsibilities are:
• determining, agreeing with the Board and reviewing from time to time the overall policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, the 
executive directors, the Company Secretary, members of the Executive Committee and the ﬁ rst tier of senior management below the 
Executive Committee, and their individual remuneration packages and any changes thereto;
• reviewing the market competitiveness of the remuneration policy and arrangements;
• overseeing salary levels and remuneration packages for the second and third tiers of management;
• approving the terms and conditions of employment, and any changes thereto, of the executive directors; 
• approving any compensation payments for executive directors;
• approving the design of, and determining targets for, any performance-related pay schemes operated by the Group;
• reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and the Company’s shareholders; 
• providing oversight of potential remuneration-related risks arising across the Group; and
• overseeing any major changes in employee beneﬁ ts structures across the Group.
With the exception of Mr Hickson, whose remuneration is determined by the Committee, none of the Committee members has 
any personal ﬁ nancial interest in the matters reserved for the Committee nor do they have any conﬂ icts of interest arising from 
cross-directorships, and they are not involved in the day to day running of the Group’s business. Therefore, they are regarded by the 
Board as independent. Mr Hickson does not participate in any discussions regarding his own remuneration.
The Committee met six times during the year. The Chief Executive attends meetings by invitation but no executive director or other 
employee is present during discussions relating to their own remuneration.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Company’s website or on request from the Company Secretary.
Advisers
During the year, the Committee retained New Bridge Street (an Aon Hewitt company) to advise on remuneration and incentive-plan 
related matters. The Company received no other services from New Bridge Street, or any other part of the Aon group of companies, 
during the year. 
The Committee consults internally with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Remuneration policy for executive directors
The Committee’s policy is to provide executive remuneration packages which are competitive, but not excessive, by reference to market 
rates across comparator companies, which take into account the individual contribution and performance of each executive, and which 
reﬂ ect the performance of the business against ﬁ nancial objectives. Remuneration packages comprise the following elements:
(i) base salary and beneﬁ ts, including pensions;
(ii) annual bonuses linked to the Group’s ﬁ nancial performance and personal objectives; and 
(iii) awards of share-based incentives linked to the long term growth of the Group.
The Committee aims to align the interests of executive directors and senior executive with those of shareholders, by ensuring that a 
signiﬁ cant proportion of remuneration is performance-related. This is achieved through the performance-related elements of annual 
bonuses and share-based incentives. Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
40
There were a number of important inﬂ uences on the Committee’s key decisions during the year:
• The Group completed two major acquisitions, Mecar S.A. and Roke Manor Research Limited, towards the end of the 2010 ﬁ nancial 
year, and in April 2011, the acquisition of the General Dynamics Armament and Technical Products’ Detection Systems business (now 
Chemring Detection Systems, Inc.) was announced.
• The acquisition of Mecar has resulted in a signiﬁ cant increase in the Group’s sales to non-NATO countries, and Roke has substantially 
augmented the Group’s engineering capabilities in electronics, software and systems engineering. The Chemring Detection Systems 
acquisition creates substantial opportunities to enhance the Group’s existing IED detection capabilities.
• These three new businesses have increased the Group’s revenue by over £149 million on an annualised basis and, as a result, the 
operational complexity of managing the Group has intensiﬁ ed. These important factors were taken into account when the Committee 
adjusted salary levels for the executive directors with effect from 1 April 2011.
• Prospects within the defence sector were reasonably optimistic in the ﬁ rst half of the year. This was reﬂ ected in highly challenging 
earnings per share and cash ﬂ ow targets set by the Committee for the annual bonus plan for the year ended 31 October 2011 and 
the equally demanding earnings per share targets set for the awards made under the Chemring Group Performance Share Plan in 
January 2011.
• However, the immediate outlook for the sector became increasingly uncertain towards the end of 2011. This has been an important 
inﬂ uence on the Committee’s thinking on a number of issues during the last few months, resulting in:
 – the imposition of a salary freeze for the executive directors for 2012;
 – the award of zero bonuses for the year ended 31 October 2011; and
 – reduced earnings per share growth targets for Performance Share Plan awards to be made during 2012.
Full details on the Committee’s key decisions are set out below.
Comparator groups
The constituents of the sector-based comparator group utilised by the Committee for remuneration benchmarking purposes during the 
year were as follows:
Bodycote plc Melrose PLC Senior plc
Charter International plc Morgan Crucible Company  Spectris plc
Domino Printing Services plc QinetiQ Group PLC Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc
Fenner PLC Renishaw plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Halma plc Rotork PLC 
The Committee also considered a general comparator group of forty nine FTSE companies with a similar market capitalisation and turnover 
of half to double that of the Group.
Base salaries and beneﬁ ts
The executive directors’ base salaries are reviewed annually by the Committee, and adjustments made, if appropriate, taking into account 
individual performance and comparable salary levels in the comparator groups set out above. The Committee refers to published salary 
surveys and data provided by its remuneration advisers, New Bridge Street, and also reviews the remuneration information presented in 
the annual reports of companies in the comparator groups.
The Committee has considered two annual salary reviews since the last Directors’ Remuneration Report was published:
• 2011 adjustment (effective 1 April 2011): As explained above, a key consideration for the Committee when it carried out the salary review 
in early 2011 was the enhanced complexity of the most senior executive roles following the expansion of the Group. The Committee also 
took into account the outstanding and sustained Group performance over a number of years and the demand for talented executive 
management with a proven track record in the industry. The Group has a relatively small executive management team, and the current 
members of this team have been critical to the Group’s recent success. The Committee was keen to ensure that these individuals were 
motivated to remain with the Group. Accordingly, salaries for the executive directors were increased by 9.4% with effect from 1 April 
2011. Revised salaries were, therefore, Dr Price £525,000 and Mr Rayner £328,125.
• 2012 adjustment (effective 1 April 2012): In light of the increasingly difﬁ cult immediate trading outlook for the Group, given the current 
worldwide pressure on defence budgets, the Committee has determined that there should be no adjustment to the executive directors’ 
salaries for 2012. The executive directors’ salaries will, therefore, remain at the levels outlined above for 2012. 
Mrs Ellard’s base salary was increased from £180,000 to £200,000 on her appointment as an executive director on 7 October 2011.
The executive directors’ base salaries will next be reviewed on 1 April 2013.
The Committee also considers and approves the base salaries for twenty seven other senior executives, and reviews salaries for the next 
two tiers of management at each of the Group’s businesses. In addition, the Committee receives information on general pay levels across 
the Group. The Committee therefore has due regard to salary levels across the Group in applying its remuneration policy.
The main taxable beneﬁ ts for executive directors are fully-expensed company cars and private medical insurance.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
41
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Annual bonuses
During the year under review, the Company operated an annual performance-related bonus plan for the executive directors, with key 
characteristics as follows:
• a maximum bonus potential for the executive directors of 100% of base salary;
• three quarters of the bonus potential linked to two separate ﬁ nancial performance conditions, namely earnings per share and cash ﬂ ow 
(with equal weighting). The conditions, which are set by the Committee, take into account a number of factors including budget, market 
expectations, long term growth prospects and the previous year’s out-turn. No bonus is payable for achievement of less than 90% of 
target, with bonuses being earned thereafter on a straight-line basis up to the maximum for 110% or better achievement of target;
• one quarter of the bonus potential may be achieved in connection with the satisfaction of personal objective criteria set at the 
beginning of the ﬁ nancial year. These comprise a mixture of short term and longer term objectives linked to the delivery of the 
Company’s strategic plan. No part of this element of bonus is payable unless threshold performance of both the ﬁ nancial conditions 
described above is achieved. The personal objectives set for the executive directors during the year were linked to the following 
strategic objectives:
 – improvements in the Group’s operational efﬁ ciency
 – capture of key new programmes and delivery of new product development required for future organic growth
 – expansion of the Group’s non-NATO activities
 – consolidation of previous acquisitions;
• 40% of any bonus payable is deferred as a conditional award of the Company’s shares, with vesting subject to continued employment 
(save in good leaver scenarios) three years from the award of bonus; and 
• the payment of any bonus remains ultimately at the discretion of the Committee.
Bonuses are non-pensionable.
The issues experienced by the Group right at the end of the ﬁ nancial year, resulting in delays in revenue, meant that the tough pre-set 
targets on earnings per share and cash ﬂ ow were missed and no bonus was payable in respect of these elements. Although many of the 
personal objectives were successfully achieved, nothing is payable under this element of the bonus plan unless threshold performance is 
achieved under both the earnings per share and cash ﬂ ow measures. In summary, the Committee’s belief in rigorous target setting meant 
that despite the Group achieving 5% year-on-year underlying earnings per share growth and successfully implementing a number of key 
strategic developments for the longer-term beneﬁ t of the Group, no bonuses were payable to the executive directors for performance in 
the year under review.
The Committee has consistently set highly challenging bonus targets for the achievement of maximum bonuses. Despite the outstanding 
levels of earnings per share growth and returns to shareholders delivered by the Group in recent years, the executive directors did not 
receive maximum bonuses in any of the four years prior to the year under review, as evidenced by the chart below. 
Year 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Growth in underlying EPS
1
5% 15% 33% 43% 56%
Return to shareholders in year -13% 15% 70% -27% 41%
Executive All D J Price P A Rayner D J Price P A Rayner D J Price P A Rayner D J Price P A Rayner
Maximum bonus potential (% of salary) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Bonus paid (% of salary) 0% 61.81% 61.31% 94.13% 94.38% 52.1% 54.3% 46.1% 44.6%
1
Source: Statutory accounts for the years ended 31 October 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007
The basic structure of the bonus plan will remain unchanged for the current ﬁ nancial year, namely with a maximum bonus potential of 
100% of base salary, with 40% of any bonus satisﬁ ed by the award of deferred shares. Clawback provisions exist in the bonus plan, which 
will enable the Company to clawback the deferred shares prior to vesting in the event of subsequent discovery of material misstatement 
of the Company’s ﬁ nancial results for the ﬁ nancial year in respect of which the deferred shares were awarded. Bonuses will continue to be 
determined by a mixture of earnings per share, cash ﬂ ow and personal objectives. Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
42
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued
Long term incentives
Performance share plan
The Company operates the Chemring Group Performance Share Plan for the executive directors and other key members of the senior 
management team who inﬂ uence the performance and prospects of the Group. The key features of the plan are currently as follows:
• conditional awards can be made of the Company’s shares worth no more than 150% of base salary each year under normal 
circumstances (200% of salary in exceptional circumstances);
• awards will vest three years after grant subject to the extent to which a demanding performance condition has been achieved over a 
single three year performance period (with no ability to re-test the performance condition). The performance condition is based on 
the growth of the Company’s earnings per share in excess of RPI over three consecutive ﬁ nancial years. The Committee considers an 
earnings per share condition to most closely align the interests of participants with those of the Company’s shareholders;
• the vesting schedules for awards granted to date are as follows:
Awards to 
executive directors
Total earnings per share growth per annum (not compounded) over three ﬁ nancial years
Threshold vesting Full vesting
Awards made prior to 
23 January 2007 100% of salary RPI +5% p.a. (33% vests) RPI+15% p.a.
Awards made on 
24 January 2007 100% of salary RPI +7.5% p.a. (33% vests) RPI+20% p.a.
Awards made on or after 
23 January 2008 100% of salary RPI +10% p.a. (25% vests) RPI+30% p.a.
Awards made on or after 
23 January 2010
125% of salary
RPI + 10% p.a. (25% vests for 
awards up to 100% of salary)
RPI + 25% p.a. (for any additional
awards over 100% of salary) 
RPI + 25% p.a. (for awards
up to 100% of salary)
RPI + 30% (for awards
up to 125% of salary)
Awards made on or after 
19 January 2011
150% of salary
RPI + 10% p.a. (25% vests for 
awards up to 100% of salary)
RPI + 25% p.a. (for any additional
awards over 100% of salary) 
RPI + 25% p.a. (for awards
up to 100% of salary)
RPI + 35% p.a. (for awards
up to 150% of salary)*
* For awards of up to 150% of base salary, 100% will vest at RPI + 25%, with the additional 50% vesting on a straight-line basis between RPI + 25% and RPI + 35%
  No shares vest for growth below the threshold vesting target. Vesting is calculated on a straight-line basis for growth between the 
threshold and full vesting targets;
• earnings per share is calculated on a fully diluted and normalised basis, as speciﬁ ed by the Committee prior to grant; and
• market purchase shares or new issue shares (including treasury shares) may be used to satisfy awards. To the extent that new issue 
shares or treasury shares are used, these will count towards the usual share usage dilution limits (10% in ten years for all schemes and 
5% in ten years for discretionary (executive) schemes).
Participation in the plan is extended at the discretion of the Committee to the executive directors and senior management of the Group, 
both in the UK and overseas. The following awards were made under the plan during the year:
Date of award
Total number of 
shares awarded
Number of participants 
receiving awards
19 January 2011 693,720* 36
24 October 2011 17,492 1
Total 711,212 37
* Restated to reﬂ ect subdivision of 5p ordinary shares into 1p ordinary shares
Details of the awards made to executive directors during the year are set out on page 46.
Clawback provisions apply to all awards under the plan from 2011 onwards, which will enable the Company to clawback awards prior to 
vesting in the event of subsequent discovery of material misstatement of the Company’s ﬁ nancial results, and after having ﬁ rst clawed 
back any unvested deferred shares awarded as part of the annual bonus for the ﬁ nancial year in which the results were misstated.
The Committee has historically set highly challenging earnings per share targets, reﬂ ecting the Board’s conﬁ dence in the strong growth 
prospects for the Group but also the Committee’s ﬁ rm commitment to align the interests of shareholders with the executive management 
through the use of signiﬁ cant levels of potential variable pay triggered by exceptional levels of performance.
In considering the performance condition for awards which will be made in 2012, the Committee has remained consistent with its 
commitment to tough target setting. However, with defence budgets around the world under signiﬁ cant pressure, growth prospects for 
the Group are considerably more uncertain and this is reﬂ ected in the lower target growth range selected by the Committee.  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
43
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The following vesting schedule will therefore apply for awards made in 2012:
Total earnings per share growth per annum 
(not compounded) over three ﬁ nancial years Value of award that will vest
Less than 3% p.a. 0%
3% p.a. 15% of base salary
5% p.a. 25% of base salary
10% p.a. 100% of base salary
10% p.a. up to 12.5% p.a. 100% to 150% of base salary
Given the ﬂ uctuating nature of inﬂ ation over recent years, the Committee feels that it is more appropriate going forward to set a robust 
target that is expressed as a simple growth percentage (rather than a target expressed as RPI+x%). The Committee believes that this 
simpler structure will be more transparent for both shareholders and executives.
The Committee is satisﬁ ed that, although lower than for previous awards, this target range is still highly challenging given the current 
prospects for the Group and for the sector.
The Committee reviews, from time to time, the basis of the performance condition but continues to believe that the earnings per share 
metric mostly closely aligns the interests of executives and shareholders, and therefore remains an appropriate metric for the Group.
During the year under review, the Company purchased 300,000* (2010: 634,400*) treasury shares at a cost of £1.5 million for use in 
the plan. 456,855* shares were transferred from treasury to participants in the plan during the year on vesting of the awards made on 
23 January 2008.
The executive directors are expected to build-up, over a ﬁ ve year period following appointment, and maintain a shareholding in the Company 
equivalent to one year’s base salary. All of the executive directors currently hold shares in excess of this requirement. Other participants 
in the plan are expected to retain a shareholding equivalent to up to 50% of their base salary following vesting of the awards.
Other schemes
The Company operates all-employee savings-related share schemes in the UK (The Chemring Group 2008 Sharesave Plan) and the US 
(The Chemring Group 2008 US Stock Purchase Plan). There are no performance criteria for these arrangements, and options are issued 
to all participants in accordance with UK HM Revenue and Customs and US Internal Revenue Service regulations.
The Company complies with the dilution guidelines contained within the “ABI Principles of Remuneration”. At 31 October 2011, awards 
outstanding and issued under all share schemes during the previous ten years amounted to 3.07% of the ordinary share capital of the 
Company. At 31 October 2011, awards outstanding and issued under executive share schemes during the previous ten years amounted to 
2.67% of the ordinary share capital of the Company.
* Restated to reﬂ ect subdivision of 5p ordinary shares into 1p ordinary shares.
Performance graph
The following graph shows a comparison of the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) over the last ﬁ ve ﬁ nancial years against a 
“broad equity market index” , as required by the Regulations. The FTSE 250 Index has been selected by the Committee for this comparison 
because it provides the most appropriate measure of performance of listed companies of a similar size to the Company.
0
250
200
150
Value (£)
100
50
31 Oct 06 31 Oct 07 31 Oct 08 31 Oct 09 31 Oct 10 31 Oct 11
Total shareholder return
Source: Thomson Reuters
Chemring Group PLC
FTSE 250 Index
This graph shows the value, by 31 October 2011, of £100 invested in Chemring Group PLC on 31 October 2006 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index. 
The other points plotted are the values at intervening ﬁ nancial year ends. Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
44
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued
Pensions
The executive directors were members of the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme (“the Staff Scheme”) until 6 April 2010. This is an 
approved ﬁ nal salary scheme, which is contracted out of the State Second Pension, and which provides, at retirement, a pension of up 
to two-thirds of salary, subject to Inland Revenue limits. The pension arrangements for the executive directors under the Staff Scheme 
(1/80ths accrual rate only as far as the notional earnings cap) were well below market norms. The Committee therefore agreed that with 
effect from 6 April 2010, the executive directors would cease to participate in the Staff Scheme, and would instead, for all future service, 
receive a salary supplement of 20% of base salary.
Service contracts
The executive directors all have rolling service contracts, as follows:
Date of 
commencement Notice period
S L Ellard 7 October 2011 12 months
D J Price 4 April 2005 12 months
P A Rayner 27 August 1999 12 months
The contracts may all be terminated by the Company without notice, by making a payment in lieu of notice equal to the sum of the salary 
due for the unexpired notice period plus the fair value of any contractual beneﬁ ts. The contracts for Mrs Ellard and Dr Price provide that 
any such sum may be paid in instalments, and in these circumstances there is a requirement to mitigate loss. Mr Rayner’s contract does 
not include such a provision.
It is the Committee’s general policy that all new executive directors appointed in the future will have service contracts with the Company 
which are terminable on a maximum of twelve months’ notice. The service contracts will contain provisions permitting the Company to 
make any termination payments by instalments, and will require directors to mitigate their loss in such circumstances.
Policy on outside appointments
With the speciﬁ c approval of the Board in each case, executive directors may accept external appointments as non-executive directors of 
other companies, provided that they do not detract from their responsibilities to the Group, and may retain any related fees paid to them. 
Mr Rayner and Mrs Ellard do not currently hold any such external appointments. Dr Price is currently serving as a non-executive director 
of AZ Electronic Materials S.A., for which he receives and retains an annual fee of £55,000.
Non-executive directors
Mr Hickson’s letter of appointment provides for a three year appointment at a ﬁ xed fee of £170,000 per annum. The appointment may 
be terminated on six months’ notice by either party. It is anticipated that Mr Hickson will devote four to ﬁ ve days each month to his role, 
subject to the overriding requirement that he allocates sufﬁ cient time to the role as is reasonably necessary for the proper performance 
of his duties.
The other non-executive directors are all appointed for three year terms under letters of appointment covering, amongst other items, 
their terms of appointment and expected time commitment. The appointments may be terminated earlier by and at the discretion 
of either party upon three months’ written notice. The Rt Hon Lord Freeman is currently serving his second three year term as a 
non-executive director, which will expire on 25 May 2012. Mr Evans’ current appointment as a non-executive director will terminate on 
30 March 2012, and he has advised the Board that he intends to retire and will not therefore seek reappointment at the Annual General 
Meeting on 21 March 2012. Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss are currently serving their third terms, under letters of appointment 
which have been extended on a rolling basis. Mrs Murray’s ﬁ rst three year term will expire on 31 October 2014.
Following a review of time commitment and market rates, the basic fees for the non-executive directors were adjusted during the year. 
The basic fee payable to each of the ﬁ ve non-executive directors is now £55,000 per annum. The Rt Hon Lord Freeman and Mr Much each 
receive an additional fee of £8,000 per annum, in respect of their Chairmanship of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee 
respectively. Mr Much also serves as the Senior Independent Director but he receives no additional fee for this role. Fees for the 
non-executive directors have been ﬁ xed for the next three years.
The Company provides private medical insurance for Mr Evans, Mr Hickson and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss, and their respective spouses.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the Company’s pension, bonus or share-based incentive schemes. However, Mr Evans does 
receive a pension from the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme, which he accrued during his former employment with the Company. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
45
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
AUDITED INFORMATION
Directors’ emoluments
The emoluments of all the directors who served during the year are shown below:
Salaries and fees
Bonuses (cash and 
deferred shares)
Cash pension 
supplement Taxable beneﬁ ts Total
2011
£000
2010
£000
2011
£000
2010
£000
2011
£000
2010
£000
2011
£000
2010
£000
2011
£000
2010
£000
Executives
D J Price 506 455 - 297 101 56 34 35 641 843
P A Rayner 316 284 - 186 63 35 22 21 401 526
S L Ellard (appointed 7 Oct 2011) 17 - - - 3 - 1 - 21 -
Non-executives
D R Evans 50 43 - - - - 1 1 51 44
R N Freeman 58 51 - - - - - - 58 51
P C F Hickson 170 57 - - - - 2 - 172 57
I F R Much 58 51 - - - - - - 58 51
P C Norriss 50 43 - - - - 2 2 52 45
Total remuneration 1,225 984 - 483 167 91 62 59 1,454 1,617
Amounts shown above in the salaries and fees column relate to base salary in the case of executive directors and fees in the case of non-
executive directors.
Aggregate directors’ remuneration
The total amounts for directors’ remuneration were as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Salaries, fees, bonuses and beneﬁ ts in kind 1,287 1,526
Cash pension supplement 167 91
Gains on exercise of share options and vesting of awards under long-term incentive schemes 429 381
1,883 1,998
Directors’ share interests
The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company at 1 November 2010, or date of appointment if later, and 
31 October 2011 are shown below. All are beneﬁ cial holdings.
2011
Number
 2010
 Number*
S L Ellard 75,035 75,035
D R Evans 75,000 75,000
R N Freeman 1,750 1,750
P C F Hickson 40,000 20,000
I F R Much 26,500 26,500
P Norriss 27,000 27,000
D J Price 641,720 618,815
P A Rayner 212,500 200,000
* Restated to reﬂ ect subdivision of 5p ordinary shares into 1p ordinary shares
The directors’ share interests at 31 October 2011 include shares held by the directors’ adult children, as required by the Companies Act 2006.
Mrs Murray has no interests in the ordinary shares of the Company.
During November 2011 and prior to the start of the Company’s close period preceding the release of its annual results, Dr Price purchased 
an additional 9,000 shares, Mr Rayner 1,000 shares, Mr Hickson 25,000 shares and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss an additional 1,000 shares. 
No other movements have taken place between 31 October 2011 and 23 January 2012. Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
46
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued
Performance share plan
Details of awards made to the executive directors under the Chemring Group Performance Share Plan during the year are shown below.
Number of shares under award*
At 1 Nov 2010
Awarded during 
the year
Lapsed during 
the year
Vested during 
the year At 31 Oct 2011 Date of vesting
Share price on 
date of award (p)
S L Ellard 14,785 - - 14,785 - 24 Jan 2011 379.0
23,190 - - - 23,190 21 Jan 2012 406.2
16,460 - - - 16,460 20 Jan 2013 615.0
- 25,520 - - 25,520 19 Jan 2014 636.8
54,435 25,520 - 14,785 65,170
D J Price 90,020 - - 90,020 - 24 Jan 2011 379.0
100,000 - - - 100,000 21 Jan 2012 406.2
70,990 - - - 70,990 20 Jan 2013 615.0
15,740 - - - 15,740 18 Mar 2013 667.8
- 111,350 - - 111,350 19 Jan 2014 636.8
276,750 111,350 - 90,020 298,080
P A Rayner 56,580 - - 56,580 - 24 Jan 2011 379.0
62,500 - - - 62,500 21 Jan 2012 406.2
44,370 - - - 44,370 20 Jan 2013 615.0
9,835 - - - 9,835 18 Mar 2013 667.8
- 69,590 - - 69,590 19 Jan 2014 636.8
173,285 69,590 - 56,580 186,295
* Figures restated to reﬂ ect subdivision of 5p ordinary shares into 1p ordinary shares
Awards granted on 23 January 2008 vested in full during the year, as the maximum earnings per share growth target was achieved. 
The share price on the date of vesting was 666.6p. The value of the vested award, and therefore the gain on vesting, to Dr Price was 
£258,897.52, to Mr Rayner was £162,724.08, and to Mrs Ellard was £42,521.66.
Awards worth 150% of base salary were granted to Dr Price and Mr Rayner on 19 January 2011; 25% of the shares under these awards 
will vest if earnings per share growth is RPI+10% p.a. over the three year performance period, rising on a straight-line basis to vesting of 
the award worth 100% of base salary for growth of RPI+25% p.a, and vesting of an additional award worth 50% of base salary for growth 
between RPI+25% p.a. to RPI+35% p.a. An award worth 100% of base salary was granted to Mrs Ellard on 19 January 2011.
Share options
The holdings by the directors of share options granted under the Chemring Group 2008 UK Sharesave Plan at 1 November 2010 and 
31 October 2011 are shown below.
Number of share options*
At 1 Nov 2010
Granted 
during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
Exercised 
during
the year At 31 Oct 2011
Exercise 
price(p)
Market price 
at date of 
exercise (p)
Date from 
which 
exercisable Expiry date
S L Ellard 2,515 - - 2,515 - 373.6 528.5 1 Oct 2011 1 Apr 2012
1,776 - - 1,776 508.0 - 1 Oct 2014 1 Apr 2015
D J Price 2,515 - - 2,515 - 373.6 528.5 1 Oct 2011 1 Apr 2012
P A Rayner 4,355 - - - 4,355 373.6 - 1 Oct 2013 1 Apr 2014
* Figures restated to reﬂ ect subdivision of 5p ordinary shares into 1p ordinary shares
Options granted on 1 October 2008 became exercisable during the year. The share price on the date of exercise was 528.5p. The gain on 
exercise to each of Dr Price and Mrs Ellard was £3,896.
The closing market price of the ordinary shares at 31 October 2011 was 510p. During the year, the ordinary shares traded within the range 
485p to 736.5p. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
47
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Deferred shares
Details of awards of deferred shares made to the executive directors under the annual performance-related bonus plan are set out below 
(the values of these shares at award are included in the bonus ﬁ gures in the directors’ emoluments table):
Number of deferred shares under award*
At 1 Nov 2010
Awarded during 
the year
Lapsed during 
the year
Vested during 
the year At 31 Oct 2011 Date of vesting
Share price on 
date of award (p)
D J Price 10,370 - - 10,370 - 18 Jan 2011 388.8
13,015 - - - 13,015 13 Jan 2012 400.0
16,705 - - - 16,705 12 Jan 2013 591.6
- 18,355 - - 18,355 11 Jan 2014 636.8
40,090 18,355 - 10,370 48,075
P A Rayner 6,305 - - 6,305 - 18 Jan 2011 388.8
8,485 - - - 8,485 13 Jan 2012 400.0
10,470 - - - 10,470 12 Jan 2013 591.6
- 11,380 - - 11,380 11 Jan 2014 636.8
25,260 11,380 - 6,305 30,335
* Figures restated to reﬂ ect subdivision of 5p ordinary shares into 1p ordinary shares
Pensions
The following table sets out the pension beneﬁ ts accrued by the directors during the year, as a consequence of their former membership 
of the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme.
Total beneﬁ t
accrued at
31 Oct 2010
Transfer 
value of 
accrued 
beneﬁ t at 
31 Oct 2010
Total beneﬁ t
accrued at
31 Oct 2011
Transfer 
value of 
accrued 
beneﬁ t at 
31 Oct 2011 
Increase in 
transfer value 
during year 
(less members’ 
contributions)
Pension 
(£p.a.)
Cash 
(£) (£)
Pension 
(£p.a.)
Cash 
(£) (£) (£)
S L Ellard 19,669 59,006 239,437 19,669 59,006 298,770 59,333
D J Price 7,725 23,175 110,850 7,725 23,175 126,930 16,080
P A Rayner 24,462 73,387 368,480 24,462 73,387 443,574 75,094
(i) Transfer values represent liabilities of the applicable scheme, and do not represent sums paid to the individuals.
(ii) Transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with actuarial professional guidance.
(iii) All directors left the pension scheme with an entitlement to deferred beneﬁ ts on 6 April 2010.
Approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Report
The Directors’ Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on 24 January 2012.
Signed on behalf of the Board
I F R Much
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
48
Introduction by the Chairman
The Board is committed to upholding the highest standards 
on corporate governance, protecting and growing our 
shareholders’ assets, and engaging in a fair and transparent 
manner with all of our stakeholders. We take responsibility 
for approving the Group’s long term goals and strategies, 
and provide overall ﬁ nancial and organisational control. 
We also ensure that the Group’s businesses have appropriate 
and effective internal control and risk management systems. 
The detailed statement below sets out how the Company 
has applied the main and supporting principles of good 
governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 
issued in June 2010 by the Financial Reporting Council 
(“the Code”). I would like to draw your attention to some 
speciﬁ c examples of how the principles relating to the role 
and effectiveness of the Board are applied in practice:
Setting of strategic aims
The Board convenes annually for two days in October to 
undertake a detailed review of the updated ﬁ ve year plan 
for the Group, which includes a detailed assessment of the 
current and future resource requirements for delivery of the 
plan. Risks to achievement of the ﬁ ve year plan are reviewed 
regularly by the Group’s Risk Committee and the full Board.
Setting of values
The Board sets the standards of behaviour expected of all 
employees and third parties acting on our behalf, as set out in 
our Global Code of Business Principles. This is reviewed on an 
annual basis.
Role of the Chairman
Following my appointment as Chairman in October 2010, 
I took the opportunity to consult with each of the directors 
individually to discuss their views on the operation and 
effectiveness of the Board meetings and the interaction of its 
members. We now have an agenda for our meetings which has 
an increased focus on key strategic issues.
Composition of the Board
Following a review by the Board during the year of its current 
balance of skills, experience and knowledge of the Company, 
two new directors were appointed. Sarah Ellard, the Company 
Secretary since 1998, was appointed as Group Legal Director, 
and Vanda Murray was appointed as a new non-executive 
director. Both individuals bring valuable experience and a new 
perspective to the Board.
Induction
We have implemented a structured induction programme for 
Mrs Murray, which includes visits to a number of the Group’s 
sites. Mrs Ellard’s induction requirements are different, as 
she is already very familiar with the Group’s operations and 
the workings of the Board, but we have identiﬁ ed other plans 
for her future personal development in order to enhance her 
contribution to the Board.
The Company has been in full compliance with the provisions 
of Code throughout the year ended 31 October 2011. 
P C F Hickson
Chairman
The Board
The Board currently comprises three executive directors and 
six non-executive directors (including the Chairman). The Board 
considers that the Chairman and four of the other non-executive 
directors, The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much, Mrs Murray and 
Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss are independent in character and 
judgment, and meet the criteria for independence set out in the Code. 
The directors’ biographical details are set out on pages 34 and 35. 
The Board meets at least ten times a year, and has a formal schedule 
of matters speciﬁ cally reserved to it for consideration and approval, 
including: approval of the Group’s ﬁ ve year plan; approval of the 
annual operating budgets; acquisitions, disposals and major capital 
expenditure; ﬁ nancing and treasury; pensions; ethical policies; health 
and safety strategy; reviewing the Group’s systems of ﬁ nancial 
control and risk management; approving appointments to the Board 
and approving policies relating to directors’ remuneration; and 
maintaining an effective dialogue with shareholders. All directors 
take decisions objectively in the interests of the Company.
The Board delegates certain responsibilities to the Executive 
Committee, including: implementation of the Group’s strategies 
and policies as determined by the Board; monitoring of operational 
and ﬁ nancial results against budget; allocation of resources across 
the Group within the overall plan approved by the Board; capital 
expenditure within limits imposed by the Board; and developing 
and implementing risk management systems. Further details of the 
Executive Committee are set out in the section of this report covering 
Board Committees.
Procedures are in place covering the content, presentation and 
timely delivery of papers to the Board for each Board meeting, to 
ensure that directors have sufﬁ cient information to make expedient 
and considered decisions in fulﬁ lment of their ﬁ duciary duties. Where 
directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the running 
of the Company or a proposed action, such concerns are recorded in 
the Board minutes.
Each director has full access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary who, under the direction of the Chairman, is 
responsible for maintaining good information ﬂ ows within the Board 
and its committees; assisting with induction; keeping the directors 
informed about changes to their duties and responsibilities; and 
advising the Board on all governance matters. The appointment 
and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as 
a whole.
All directors are entitled to take independent professional advice in 
furtherance of their duties at the Company’s expense, should the 
need arise.
An internal induction programme on the Group’s operations and 
its strategic and business plans is provided for newly-appointed 
directors. The Company Secretary also provides detailed information 
on directors’ legal duties and responsibilities on appointment, and 
updates the Board on a regular basis with regards to regulatory 
changes affecting the directors and the Group’s operations generally. 
Directors are continually updated on the Group’s businesses and the 
matters affecting the market in which they operate. The Company 
meets the cost of appropriate external training for directors, the 
requirement for which is kept under review by the Chairman. 
The Company separates the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive 
in accordance with the recommendations of the Code. The division of 
responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, and 
their respective job descriptions, are set out in writing and agreed by 
the Board.
Statement on Corporate Governance Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
49
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
In addition to chairing the Board, the Chairman is responsible 
for ensuring that the Board is kept properly informed and is 
consulted on all decisions reserved to it; promoting constructive 
relations between the executive and non-executive directors; 
ensuring that the training and development needs of directors 
are identiﬁ ed and the performance of the Board evaluated on a 
regular basis; ensuring effective communication with shareholders 
and acting as a conduit to ensure that the views of shareholders 
are communicated to the Board. The Chairman’s other business 
commitments, which are detailed on page 34, were fully disclosed 
to the Board prior to his appointment and the Board is comfortable 
that he has sufﬁ cient time available to commit to his role.
The non-executive directors perform an essential role in 
safeguarding shareholders’ interests. They actively participate 
in the development of strategic objectives, and monitor the 
performance of executive management in achieving these 
objectives, in a constructively challenging manner where 
appropriate. The non-executive directors also review ﬁ nancial 
performance, and consider the integrity of the ﬁ nancial information 
produced by the Group and whether the ﬁ nancial controls and 
risk management systems are robust and defensible. They meet 
periodically with the management of the Group’s operating 
companies. In addition to participating in Board meetings, the 
four independent non-executive directors are the members of the 
standing committees set up to deal with audit and the remuneration 
of executive directors and senior management. The Board 
considers that the current balance of executive and non-executive 
inﬂ uence which exists is appropriate for the Company, taking into 
account its size and status.
Mr Much served as the Senior Independent Director throughout 
the year.
During the year the Chairman met regularly with the non-executive 
directors without the executives being present.
The non-executive directors have letters of appointment covering, 
amongst other items, their terms of appointment and expected 
time commitment. These letters of appointment provide for a 
three year appointment, unless terminated earlier by and at the 
discretion of either party upon three months’ written notice. 
Further details are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
on page 44, and copies of the letters of appointment are available 
for inspection on request to the Company Secretary.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, all 
directors are required to submit themselves for re-election every 
three years. However, in order to ensure compliance with the 
Code, all directors voluntarily submitted themselves for re-election 
at the Annual General in March 2011, and will do so again at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The papers accompanying the Notice of Annual General Meeting 
include a statement from the Chairman conﬁ rming that the 
performance of each non-executive director seeking re-election at 
the meeting continues to be effective and that each such director 
continues to demonstrate commitment to their role.
The performance of the Board and its effectiveness are subject 
to periodic review by the Chairman. The Chairman and the 
non-executive directors consider the individual performance of the 
executive directors as part of the annual remuneration review, and 
the Chairman and the Chief Executive review the performance of 
the non-executive directors. During the year, a formal evaluation of 
the Board was also carried out by the Chairman, with the assistance 
of the Company Secretary. Feedback was sought from each of the 
directors on topics including: the quality of the Board’s review and 
monitoring of strategic aims; ways in which the mix of skills and 
knowledge on the Board could be improved; the effectiveness of 
the Board’s interaction with shareholders and with employees; the 
Board agenda; ﬂ ow of information to the Board; Board succession; 
and the operation of the Board Committees. Each director was 
also invited to propose three objectives for the Board for the 
forthcoming year. As a consequence of this exercise, a set of key 
objectives was agreed, which the Board will work towards achieving 
this year. The Board intends to comply with the Code guidance that 
its performance evaluation should be externally facilitated at least 
every three years. 
The Company maintains directors and ofﬁ cers liability insurance in 
respect of legal action against its directors. 
Meetings attendance
The following table shows the attendance of directors, who served 
during the year, at meetings of the Board, the Audit Committee, the 
Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee:
Board 
(13 meetings)
Audit 
Committee 
(3 meetings)
Nomination 
Committee 
(1 meeting)
Remuneration 
Committee 
(6 meetings)
P C F Hickson 12(13) - 1(1) 6(6)
S L Ellard 1(1) - - -
D R Evans 12(13) - - -
The Rt Hon Lord 
Freeman 12(13) 3(3) - 6(6)
I F R Much 11(13) 3(3) 1(1) 6(6)
Air Marshal 
Sir Peter Norriss 12(13) 3(3) 1(1) 6(6)
D J Price 12(13) - - -
P A Rayner 13(13) - - -
The maximum number of meetings which each director could have attended is shown 
in brackets. 
Board Committees
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the Nomination 
Committee and the Remuneration Committee are posted on 
the Company’s website and are available on request from the 
Company Secretary.
Audit Committee
 The Rt Hon Lord Freeman (Committee Chairman)
 Vanda Murray (Appointed 1 November 2011)
 Ian Much
 Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss
The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, who is a chartered accountant, is 
Chairman of the Audit Committee; his full biographical details 
are set out on page 35. The Committee met three times during 
the year, and operates within formal written terms of reference. 
As referred to above, the terms of reference are available on the 
Company’s website. Meetings of the Committee are attended, at 
the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, by the external 
auditors, the Chairman of the Board, the Finance Director and 
representatives from the Group ﬁ nance and internal audit function. 
The Committee meets with the auditors on a regular basis without 
the executive directors being present. The Company Secretary 
acts as secretary to the Committee and minutes of meetings are 
circulated to all Board members.
The Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires 
from any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties, 
and to obtain any outside legal or other professional advice it 
requires at the Company’s expense. Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
50
The Committee monitors the integrity of the Group’s ﬁ nancial 
statements and the effectiveness of the external audit process. It is 
responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between 
the Group and the external auditors is maintained, including 
reviewing non-audit services and fees. The Committee keeps 
under review the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls 
and ﬁ nancial risk management systems, and on an annual basis, 
considers the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function. 
The Committee reviews annually its terms of reference and its 
effectiveness, and recommends to the Board any changes required 
as the result of such review.
During the year, the Committee, operating under its terms of 
reference, discharged its responsibilities by:
• reviewing the Group’s draft 2010 ﬁ nancial statements and 2011 
interim results statement prior to Board approval, and reviewing 
the external auditors’ detailed reports thereon;
• reviewing the appropriateness of the Group’s accounting policies, 
and reviewing various accounting matters raised by management 
and the external auditors in the context of ﬁ nancial disclosures;
• considering and approving changes to the Group’s accounting 
policy manual;
• reviewing the potential impact on the Group’s ﬁ nancial 
statements of certain matters such as impairments of ﬁ xed asset 
values and the adoption of new accounting standards;
• reviewing the external auditors’ plan for the 2011 interim review 
and the 2011 year end audit, including reviewing the key risks 
on the accounts, conﬁ rmation of auditor independence and the 
proposed audit fee, and approving the terms of engagement for 
the audit; 
• receiving reports from the Risk Committee and reviewing the 
Group’s risk register;
• reviewing the Group’s anti-bribery policies and procedures, 
and the compliance of each of the Group’s businesses with 
these policies;
• monitoring the Group’s ﬁ nancing structures;
• monitoring the Group’s key ﬁ nancial ratios and credit ratings; 
• overseeing the application of the Group’s whistleblowing policy 
and procedures for employees; 
• reviewing the work undertaken by the Group’s internal audit 
function, assessing the adequacy of the internal audit resource 
and recommending changes for increasing the scope of the 
internal audit activities; and
• implementing the Group’s policy on the provision of non-audit 
services by the auditors, taking into account relevant guidance 
and best practice.
The Group’s internal audit programme incorporates an annual 
rolling review of all businesses, and focuses on both ﬁ nancial and 
non-ﬁ nancial controls and procedures. Newly acquired businesses 
are subjected to a detailed review by the internal audit function 
immediately post-completion. The Committee approves the 
annual internal audit plan and receives regular reports from the 
internal auditors. 
The Committee has considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of 
the current auditors from the market and noted that there are no 
contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditors.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the 
Committee reviewed:
• the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors’ 
independence and objectivity;
• the external auditors’ fulﬁ lment of the agreed audit plan and any 
variations from the plan;
• the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their 
handling of the key accounting and audit judgements; and
• the content of the external auditors’ reporting and 
internal control.
Deloitte LLP have been the Company’s auditors for many years. 
In the opinion of the Committee, the relationship with the auditors 
currently works well, and having reviewed their independence 
and effectiveness, the Committee has not considered it necessary 
to date to require Deloitte LLP to re-tender for the audit work. 
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended to the Board that 
Deloitte LLP be proposed for re-appointment as auditors at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Committee keeps under review the level of any non-audit 
services which are provided by the external auditors, to ensure 
that this does not impair their independence and objectivity. The 
Committee has adopted a policy which states that the external 
auditors should not be appointed to provide services in relation 
to corporate ﬁ nance matters, unless the Committee agrees that 
their appointment would be in the best interests of the Company’s 
shareholders in particular circumstances and would not create any 
direct conﬂ ict with their role as external auditors. The Committee, 
in conjunction with the Finance Director, ensures that the Group 
maintains a sufﬁ cient choice of appropriately qualiﬁ ed audit ﬁ rms. 
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year 
for audit and other services are set out in the notes to the ﬁ nancial 
statements on page 68.
Nomination Committee
 Peter Hickson (Committee Chairman)
 Ian Much
 Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss
Mr Hickson is Chairman of the Nomination Committee but, in 
accordance with the Committee’s terms of reference, is not 
permitted to chair meetings when the Committee is dealing 
with the appointment of his successor. As referred to above, 
the Committee’s terms of reference are available on the 
Company’s website.
With regards to the recruitment and appointment of new directors 
to the Board, the Committee considers the speciﬁ c knowledge 
and expertise which would be of beneﬁ t to the Group’s current 
operations and future strategy, and provides a brief to external 
search agents based upon its conclusions. The search agents put 
forward a short list of candidates for the Committee to interview 
before making its recommendations to the Board. The Board 
interviews preferred candidates prior to making any formal offers 
of appointment. These procedures were adopted during the year 
for the appointment of Mrs Murray.
During the year, the Board considered the contents of Lord Davies’ 
Review into Women on Boards published in February 2011, and 
has since noted the changes to the Code in relation to diversity 
which will take effect from 1 October 2012. The Board supports 
the principles set out in the Davies Review, as reﬂ ected by the 
fact that the Board now has two female members. The Board also 
Statement on Corporate Governance
continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
51
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
recognises the importance of promoting diversity across the Group, 
and is therefore committed to achieving a minimum of at least 25% 
female representation on the Board by 2013.
Remuneration Committee
 Ian Much (Committee Chairman)
 The Rt Hon Lord Freeman
 Peter Hickson
 Vanda Murray (Appointed 1 November 2011)
 Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss
The Remuneration Committee met six times during the year. 
Further details on the Committee and the Company’s policy on 
directors’ remuneration and long term incentive schemes are 
included within the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Executive Committee
 David Price (Chief Executive)
 Terry Bridgewater (Group Director of Safety) 
 Richard Dellar (Managing Director – Chemring International)
 Sarah Ellard (Group Legal Director)
 Stephen Grinham (Managing Director – Roke Electronics) 
 Michael Helme (Managing Director – Chemring Europe)
 Daniel McKenrick (President – Chemring North America)
 Rupert Pittman (Director of Communications & Investor Relations)
 Paul Rayner (Group Finance Director)
Dr Price chairs the Executive Committee, which meets monthly. 
The Executive Committee is responsible for the executive 
day-to-day running of the Group, submission to the Board of 
strategic plans and budgets for the Group’s operations, and 
monitoring the day-to-day performance of the Group as a whole.
Relations with shareholders
The Company maintains an active dialogue with institutional 
shareholders through regular brieﬁ ng meetings and formal 
presentations following the release of interim and annual results. 
Meetings are usually attended by the Chief Executive and the 
Finance Director, although the Chairman has attended meetings 
with some shareholders during the year. The non-executive 
directors are also offered the opportunity to meet with major 
shareholders and attend meetings if so requested by major 
shareholders. No such requests were received during the year. 
Communication with private investors is achieved largely through 
the medium of the interim report and the ﬁ nancial statements.
The Company’s website (www.chemring.co.uk) provides ﬁ nancial 
and business information on the Group.
The directors are provided with reports and other written brieﬁ ngs 
from the Company’s principal shareholders and analysts, and are 
regularly informed by the Company Secretary about changes to 
signiﬁ cant shareholdings.
It is the Company’s policy that all directors should attend and 
make themselves available to take questions from shareholders 
or address any concerns at the Annual General Meeting. At other 
times of the year, the directors can be contacted via the Company’s 
head ofﬁ ce.
All substantial issues, including the adoption of the annual report 
and ﬁ nancial statements, are proposed on separate resolutions at 
the Annual General Meeting. In line with best practice guidelines, 
voting at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting will be 
conducted by way of a poll. This allows all votes to be counted, not 
just those of shareholders who attend the meeting. Poll results 
will be published on the Company’s website as soon as practicable 
following the conclusion of the meeting. The Notice of the Annual 
General Meeting is sent to shareholders at least twenty working 
days before the meeting.
Financial reporting
The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the 
ﬁ nancial statements and accounting records maintained by the 
Company is set out on page 38.
Internal control and risk management
The Board has continued to review the effectiveness of the Group’s 
systems of internal control, including ﬁ nancial, operational and 
compliance controls, and risk management systems.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Group’s systems 
of internal control and attaches considerable importance to 
these systems, which are designed to meet the Group’s particular 
needs and identify those risks to which it is exposed. However, 
the systems can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement, loss or mismanagement of the 
Group’s assets.
In carrying out its review of the effectiveness of the Group’s 
systems of internal control in compliance with provision C2.1 of 
the Code, the Board has taken into consideration the following 
key features of the Group’s risk management systems and control 
procedures which operated during the year:
• The Board assesses the key risks associated with achievement of 
the Group’s business objectives as part of the annual strategic 
planning process. Out of this process, each business establishes 
a ﬁ ve year plan and annual budget, which are subject to approval 
by the Board. The performance of each business against 
budget and prior years is reviewed on a monthly basis at both 
operational level and by the Board. Achievement of strategic 
business objectives and the associated risks are monitored by 
the Board on an ongoing basis.
• All businesses hold monthly operating meetings, which are 
attended by the respective Divisional Managing Directors. In 
addition, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director attend 
operational and strategic review meetings with each of the 
businesses on a quarterly basis. In the case of the US businesses, 
formal Board meetings are held quarterly, and these are 
attended by main Board directors and external non-executive 
directors appointed in the US. The US non-executive directors 
are available to provide guidance and monitor governance in 
the US businesses throughout the year. External non-executive 
directors are also appointed to the Boards of the Group’s Italian, 
Norwegian and Australian subsidiaries.
• Each business is required to comply with the Group’s 
Accounting Policy Manual, which sets out formal procedures for 
incurring certain types of expenditure and making contractual 
commitments. Compliance with the accounting policy manual 
is audited by the internal auditors, who report regularly to the 
Audit Committee on their ﬁ ndings.
• The Board retains primary responsibility for acquisitions and 
disposals, and ﬁ nancing arrangements for the Group. Treasury 
management, IT strategy, insurance and signiﬁ cant legal 
matters are dealt with centrally from the Group head ofﬁ ce, 
and the Board receives regular reports on each of these items. 
Reviews of the Group’s pensions, insurance and risk management 
arrangements are carried out by external advisors on a 
regular basis. Corporate governance
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
52
Statement on Corporate Governance
continued
• The Group Director of Safety, supported by divisional Health and 
Safety Management Committees, co-ordinates and controls the 
activities of each business in relation to health and safety and 
environmental matters, which are a key focus for the Board in 
view of the nature of the Group’s operations. The Chief Executive 
is the Board member nominated with speciﬁ c responsibility for 
health and safety. The Chief Executive meets formally with health 
and safety professionals from each business on an annual basis.
• The Group has committed to adherence with the European 
Aerospace and Defence Association’s Common Industry 
Standards on Anti-Corruption, and following the enactment 
of the UK Bribery Act 2010, the Group introduced a Bribery 
Act Compliance Manual incorporating its anti-bribery policies 
and procedures. 
The Group’s Risk Management Committee meets on a quarterly 
basis. All members of the Group Executive Committee also serve on 
the Risk Management Committee. The Committee reviews the key 
risks associated with the achievement of the annual budget and the 
ﬁ ve year plan for each business, and the risk control procedures 
implemented. It also considers the top ﬁ ve health and safety risks 
which have been identiﬁ ed at each site and agrees the action 
plan to address these. The Risk Management Committee reports 
biannually to the Audit Committee and the Board on the top ten 
risks from a Group perspective, and monitors the actions being 
taken to mitigate these.
The Board conﬁ rms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the 
Group’s systems of internal control and risk management which 
were in place during the ﬁ nancial year ended 31 October 2011, and 
it conﬁ rms that systems of internal control and risk management 
compliant with the Code and the Turnbull Guidance were in place 
throughout the year and have remained in place up to the date of 
approval of these ﬁ nancial statements. Notwithstanding this, the 
Board will continue to take steps to embed internal control and 
risk management further into the operations of the Group and to 
deal with any areas of improvement which come to the attention of 
management and the Board.
Procedures to deal with directors’ 
conﬂ icts of interest
All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 
(the “2006 Act”) to avoid a situation in which he or she has or 
can have a direct or indirect interest that conﬂ icts or possibly 
may conﬂ ict with the interests of the Company. The Company’s 
Articles of Association include provisions for dealing with directors’ 
conﬂ icts of interest in accordance with the 2006 Act. The Company 
has procedures in place to deal with situations where directors may 
have any such conﬂ icts, which require the Board to:
• consider each conﬂ ict situation separately on its particular facts;
• consider the conﬂ ict situation in conjunction with the rest of their 
duties under the 2006 Act;
• keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations granted by 
directors and the scope of any approvals given; and
• regularly review conﬂ ict authorisation.
Going concern
The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on going 
concern. They have made appropriate enquiries and taken into 
account factors, which are further detailed in the Review by the 
Finance Director, such as:
• the strong order book of £878.3 million as at the year end, 
despite market conditions and government spending cuts in the 
US and Europe;
• the Group’s underlying operating cash ﬂ ow of £124.6 million 
during the year;
• the strong balance sheet at the year end of £475.4 million; and
• the Group’s available banking facilities, which amount to 
£230 million with maturities through to April 2015 (see Note 22 
of the ﬁ nancial statements).
The Group’s banking covenants were all met during the year, and 
the expectation is that this will continue. As a consequence, the 
directors believe that the Company is well-placed to manage its 
risks. Details of how the Group manages its liquidity risk can be 
found in Note 25 of the ﬁ nancial statements.
The long term nature of the Group’s business, taken together with 
the Group’s forward order book, provide a satisfactory level of 
conﬁ dence to the Board in respect of trading in the year ahead.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the ﬁ nancial statements.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 24 January 2012.
Signed on behalf of the Board
S L Ellard
Group Legal Director & Company Secretary Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
53
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Independent Auditors’ Report to the 
Members of Chemring Group Plc
We have audited the Group ﬁ nancial statements of Chemring 
Group PLC for the year ended 31 October 2011 which comprise the 
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in 
Equity, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement, the Notes to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, 
and the related Notes 1 to 36. The ﬁ nancial reporting framework 
that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors 
and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, 
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group 
ﬁ nancial statements and for being satisﬁ ed that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion 
on the Group ﬁ nancial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
(APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁ nancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the ﬁ nancial statements sufﬁ cient to give reasonable 
assurance that the ﬁ nancial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of signiﬁ cant accounting 
estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of 
the ﬁ nancial statements. In addition, we read all the ﬁ nancial and 
non-ﬁ nancial information in the annual report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited ﬁ nancial statements. If we become 
aware of any material misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on ﬁ nancial statements
In our opinion the Group ﬁ nancial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 
31 October 2011 and of its proﬁ t for the year then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the 
ﬁ nancial year for which the ﬁ nancial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the Group ﬁ nancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report 
by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁ ed by law 
are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the directors’ statement contained within the Statement on 
Corporate Governance in relation to going concern; 
• the part of the Statement on Corporate Governance relating 
to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code speciﬁ ed for our review; and
• certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board 
on directors’ remuneration.
Other matters
We have reported separately on the parent company ﬁ nancial 
statements of Chemring Group PLC for the year ended 
31 October 2011 and on the information in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Nigel Mercer ACA (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
London, United Kingdom
24 January 2012 Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
54
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 October 2011
2011 2010
 As restated*
Note
 Underlying
  business 
 performance
#
 £m
 Non-
 underlying
 items
#
 £m
Total
£m
 Underlying
  business 
 performance
#
 £m
 Non-
 underlying
 items
#
 £m
Total
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue – continuing 4 730.7 - 730.7 597.1 - 597.1
  – acquired 4 14.6 - 14.6 ---
Total revenue 4,5 745.3 - 745.3 597.1 - 597.1
Operating proﬁ t – continuing 139.6 (33.5) 106.1 137.5 (29.6) 107.9
  – acquired 2.2 (1.3) 0.9 ---
Total operating proﬁ t 5,6 141.8 (34.8) 107.0 137.5 (29.6) 107.9
Share of post-tax results of associate 18 0.1 - 0.1 0.1 - 0.1
Finance income 8 0.1 - 0.1 0.5 - 0.5
Finance expense 9 (16.4) - (16.4) (19.4) - (19.4)
Proﬁ t before tax 5 125.6 (34.8) 90.8 118.7 (29.6) 89.1
Tax 10 (28.8) 11.9 (16.9) (30.7) 8.3 (22.4)
Proﬁ t after tax 96.8 (22.9) 73.9 88.0 (21.3) 66.7
Earnings per ordinary share* 12
Basic 52.1p 39.8p 49.8p 37.8p
Diluted 39.4p 37.4p
#
 Further information about non-underlying items can be found in Note 6
*   Restated ﬁ gures for prior year to reﬂ ect the subdivision of shares (see Note 13) as well as the reclassiﬁ cation of certain items from underlying costs to non-underlying costs 
(see Note 6) 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income
for the year ended 31 October 2011
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Proﬁ t after tax for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 73.9 66.7
Other comprehensive income 
(Losses)/gains on cash ﬂ ow hedges (0.1) 1.0
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (7.4) 0.4
Actuarial (losses)/gains on deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension schemes 34 (1.8) 4.0
Movement on deferred tax relating to cash ﬂ ow hedges - (0.3)
Movement on deferred tax relating to pension schemes 0.4 (1.4)
Current tax on items taken directly to equity - 0.1
Deferred tax on items taken directly to equity 0.3 (0.5) 
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to 
equity holders of the parent 65.3 70.0 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
55
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 October 2011
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
account 
£m
Special 
capital 
reserve 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
Revaluation 
reserve 
£m
Translation 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Own 
shares 
£m
Total
£m
At 1 November 2010 1.8 120.4 12.9 (2.7) 1.4 (12.4) 209.0 (7.2) 323.2
Proﬁ t after tax for the year - - - - - - 73.9 - 73.9
Other comprehensive income 
for the year - - - (0.1) - (7.1) (1.4) - (8.6)
Total comprehensive income 
for the year - - - (0.1) - (7.1) 72.5 - 65.3
Ordinary shares issued 0.2 110.2 - - ---- 110.4
Dividends paid ------ (22.7) - (22.7)
Share-based payments 
(net of settlement) ------ (2.1) - (2.1)
Current tax relating to 
share-based payments ------ 0.7 - 0.7
Transactions in own shares ------- 0.6 0.6
Transfers between reserves - - - 2.8 - - (2.8) - -
At 31 October 2011 2.0 230.6 12.9 - 1.4 (19.5) 254.6 (6.6) 475.4
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
account 
£m
Special 
capital 
reserve 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
Revaluation 
reserve 
£m
Translation 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Own 
shares 
£m
Total
£m
At 1 November 2009 1.8 120.3 12.9 (3.4) 1.4 (11.7) 157.5 (5.2) 273.6
Proﬁ t after tax for the year - - - - - - 66.7 - 66.7
Other comprehensive income 
for the year - - - 0.7 - 0.4 2.2 - 3.3
Total comprehensive income 
for the year - - - 0.7 - 0.4 68.9 - 70.0
Ordinary shares issued - 0.1 ------ 0.1
Dividends paid - - - - - - (18.7) - (18.7)
Share-based payments 
(net of settlement) - - - - - - 0.1 - 0.1
Current tax relating to 
share-based payments - - - - - - 0.1 - 0.1
Transactions in own shares - - - - - - - (2.0) (2.0)
Transfers between reserves - - - - - (1.1) 1.1 - -
At 31 October 2010 1.8 120.4 12.9 (2.7) 1.4 (12.4) 209.0 (7.2) 323.2 Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
56
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at 31 October 2011
Note £m
2011
£m £m
 As restated*
 2010
 £m
 As restated*
Non-current assets
Goodwill 14 243.4 231.0
Development costs 15 23.3 13.3
Other intangible assets 15 191.8 182.0
Property, plant and equipment 16 231.1 197.5
Interest in associate 18 1.5 1.1
Deferred tax 27 21.7 17.3
712.8 642.2
Current assets
Inventories 19 146.8 141.3
Trade and other receivables 20 190.8 165.6
Cash and cash equivalents 21,25 91.9 58.4
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 25 1.9 1.9
431.4 367.2
Total assets 1,144.2 1,009.4
Current liabilities
Borrowings 22 (86.0) (65.6)
Obligations under ﬁ nance leases 23 (2.0) (2.6)
Trade and other payables 24 (212.4) (222.3)
Provisions 26 (2.5) (1.9)
Current tax liabilities (5.6) (7.7)
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 25 (1.5) (1.6)
(310.0) (301.7)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 22 (262.1) (294.6)
Obligations under ﬁ nance leases 23 (4.4) (3.0)
Trade and other payables 24 (1.2) (1.0)
Provisions 26 (2.4) (3.1)
Deferred tax 27 (59.0) (52.4)
Preference shares 28 (0.1) (0.1)
Retirement beneﬁ t obligations 34 (25.2) (23.0)
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 25 (4.4) (7.3)
(358.8) (384.5)
Total liabilities (668.8) (686.2)
Net assets 475.4 323.2
Equity
Share capital 28 2.0 1.8
Share premium account 230.6 120.4
Special capital reserve 12.9 12.9
Hedging reserve - (2.7)
Revaluation reserve 1.4 1.4
Translation reserve (19.5) (12.4)
Retained earnings 254.6 209.0
482.0 330.4
Own shares 30 (6.6) (7.2)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 475.4 323.2
Total equity 475.4 323.2
*  The restatement above relates to the ﬁ nalisation of the fair value of acquired assets from prior year acquisitions (see Note 33) 
These ﬁ nancial statements of Chemring Group PLC (registered number 86662) were approved and authorised for issue by the 
Board of Directors on 24 January 2012.
Signed on behalf of the Board
D J Price   P A Rayner Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
57
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31 October 2011
Note
2011
£m
 2010
 £m
 As restated*
Cash ﬂ ows from operating activities
Cash generated from underlying operations A 124.6 128.0
Acquisition related costs 33 (6.6) (6.7)
Restructuring and incident costs 5 (6.7) (1.9)
Cash generated from operations 111.3 119.4
Tax paid (17.2) (30.0)
Net cash inﬂ ow from operating activities 94.1 89.4
Cash ﬂ ows from investing activities
Dividends received from associate 0.1 0.1
Purchases of intangible assets (12.9) (7.8)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (48.8) (40.9)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 -
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings (net of overdraft assumed) 33 (58.0) (176.8)
Net cash outﬂ ow from investing activities (119.2) (225.4)
Cash ﬂ ows from ﬁ nancing activities
Dividends paid 11 (22.7) (18.7)
Interest paid (17.8) (14.0)
Proceeds on issue of shares 110.4 0.1
New borrowings 107.2 211.5
Capitalised facility fees (4.8) (2.7)
Repayments of borrowings (112.6) (41.7)
Proceeds from new ﬁ nance leases 3.4 4.5
Repayments of ﬁ nance leases (2.6) (0.7)
Purchase of own shares 30 (1.5) (3.9)
Net cash inﬂ ow from ﬁ nancing activities 59.0 134.4
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents during the year 33.9 (1.6)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of the year 58.4 61.3
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (0.4) (1.3)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 25 91.9 58.4 
*  Restated ﬁ gures for prior year to reﬂ ect the reclassiﬁ cation of certain items from underlying costs to non-underlying costs in order to conform with the current year 
treatment of the corresponding items (see Note 6) Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
58
Notes to the Consolidated 
Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31 October 2011
A. Cash generated from operations
2011
£m
 2010
 £m
 As restated*
Operating proﬁ t from continuing operations 106.1 107.9
Operating proﬁ t from acquired operations 0.9 -
107.0 107.9
Adjustment for:
Amortisation of development costs 2.4 2.1
Amortisation of intangible assets arising from business combinations 24.3 17.0
Amortisation of patents and licences 0.2 0.3
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 17.2 11.6
(Gain)/loss on fair value movements on derivatives (2.4) 4.0
Share-based payment expense 0.2 2.3
Difference between pension contributions paid and amount recognised in Income Statement (0.4) 0.7
Decrease in provisions (0.1) (1.4)
Operating cash ﬂ ows before movements in working capital 148.9 144.7
Increase in inventories (1.2) (19.2)
Increase in trade and other receivables (22.5) (44.0)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (13.5) 37.9
111.7 119.4
Acquisition related costs 5.7 6.7
Restructuring and incident costs 7.2 4.3
Provision release - (2.4)
Cash generated from underlying operations 124.6 128.0
Reconciliation of net cash ﬂ ow to movement in net debt
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents during the year 33.9 (1.6)
Decrease/(increase) in debt and lease ﬁ nancing due to cash ﬂ ows 9.4 (171.1)
Change in net debt resulting from cash ﬂ ows 43.3 (172.7)
Acquired debt - (5.4)
Foreign exchange differences 3.0 (5.4)
Amortisation of debt ﬁ nance costs (1.5) (1.2)
Movement in net debt in the year 44.8 (184.7)
Net debt at start of the year (307.5) (122.8)
Net debt at end of the year (262.7) (307.5)
*  Restated ﬁ gures for prior year to reﬂ ect the reclassiﬁ cation of certain items from underlying costs to non-underlying costs in order to conform with the current year 
treatment of the corresponding items
Analysis of net debt
As at 
1 Nov 2010
£m
Cash
 ﬂ ow
£m
Non-cash
changes
£m
Exchange 
movement
£m
As at 
31 Oct 2011
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 58.4 33.9 - (0.4) 91.9
Debt due within one year (65.6) (18.8) (2.7) 1.1 (86.0)
Debt due after one year (294.6) 29.0 1.2 2.3 (262.1)
Finance leases (5.6) (0.8) - - (6.4)
Preference shares (0.1) - - - (0.1)
(307.5) 43.3 (1.5) 3.0 (262.7) Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
59
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
1. General information
Chemring Group PLC is a company incorporated in England and 
Wales under registration number 86662. The address of the 
registered ofﬁ ce is Chemring House, 1500 Parkway, Whiteley, 
Fareham, Hampshire, PO15 7AF. The nature of the Group’s 
operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 5 and in 
the Directors’ Report on pages 36 to 38. These ﬁ nancial statements 
are the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements of Chemring Group PLC 
and its subsidiaries (“the Group”).
These ﬁ nancial statements are presented in pounds sterling. 
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policy set 
out in Note 3 of the ﬁ nancial statements.
Going concern
The directors have, at the time of approving the ﬁ nancial 
statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company 
have adequate resources to continue to adopt the going concern 
basis of accounting in preparing the ﬁ nancial statements. Further 
detail is contained in the Statement on Corporate Governance on 
page 52.
2. Adoption of new and revised standards
The following IFRIC interpretations, amendments to existing 
standards and new standards have been adopted in the 
current year but have not impacted the reported results or the 
ﬁ nancial position:
• Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures for First Time Adopters
• Amendment to IAS 32 Classiﬁ cation of Rights Issues
• IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments
• Amendment to IFRS 1 Limited Exemption from Comparative 
IFRS 7 Disclosures for First Time Adopters
• Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment
• Amendment to IFRS 3 (revised 2008) Business Combinations
• Improvements to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate 
Financial Statement
• IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments
At the date of authorisation of these ﬁ nancial statements, the 
following standards and interpretations which have not been 
applied in these ﬁ nancial statements were in issue but not yet 
effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU):
• Amendments to IFRS 1 Severe Hyperinﬂ ation and Removal of 
Fixed Dates for First Time Adopters
• Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures: Transfers of Financial Assets
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
• IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements
• IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 
• IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
• IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
• Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other 
Comprehensive Income
• Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of 
Underlying Assets
• IAS 19 (Revised) Employee Beneﬁ ts
• IAS 24 (Revised) Related Party Disclosures
• IAS 27 (Revised) Separate Financial Statements 
• IAS 28 (Revised) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
• Amendment to IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting
• Amendment to IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes
• Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum 
Funding Requirement
• IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a 
Surface Mine 
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and 
interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the 
ﬁ nancial statements of the Group, except for:
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments – This will introduce a number of 
changes in the presentation of ﬁ nancial instruments.
• IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint 
Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, 
IAS 27 (Revised) Separate Financial Statements and IAS 28 
(Revised) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures – 
These will restrict the presentation options of the results of 
joint ventures in the ﬁ nancial statements, which the Group 
expect to enter into.
• Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements – 
This will impact the presentation of various items within the 
Statement of Other Comprehensive Income by requiring the 
separation of items that will later be reclassiﬁ ed through the 
Income Statement from those that will never pass through the 
Income Statement. 
• IAS 19 Employee Beneﬁ ts (Revised) – This will impact the 
measurement of the various components representing 
movements in the deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension obligation and 
associated disclosures, but not the Group’s total obligation. 
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a 
reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed 
review has been completed.
3. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
These ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRS adopted for use in the European Union. These will be those 
IAS, IFRS and related Interpretations (Standing Interpretations 
Committee (SIC)/International Financial Reporting Interpretations 
Committee (IFRIC) interpretations), subsequent amendments to 
those standards and related interpretations, future standards 
and related interpretations issued or adopted by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (IASB) that have been endorsed by 
the European Commission (collectively referred to as IFRS). These 
are subject to ongoing review and endorsement by the European 
Commission or possible amendment by interpretive guidance from 
the IASB and the IFRIC and are therefore still subject to change.
Basis of accounting
The ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group 
ﬁ nancial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. 
The particular accounting policies adopted have been applied 
consistently throughout the current and previous years and are 
described below.
Accounting convention
The ﬁ nancial statements are prepared under the historical cost 
convention, except for the revaluation of certain properties and 
ﬁ nancial instruments.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
60
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Basis of consolidation
The Group ﬁ nancial statements consolidate those of the Company 
and all of its subsidiaries. A subsidiary undertaking is an entity 
over which the Group has the power to govern the ﬁ nancial and 
operating policies of an entity so as to obtain beneﬁ ts from its 
activities. The results of subsidiaries acquired are consolidated 
from the date on which control passes to the Group and the results 
of disposed subsidiaries are consolidated up to the date on which 
control passes from the Group.
All companies within the Group make up their ﬁ nancial statements 
to the same date. All intra-group transactions, balances, income 
and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Operating proﬁ t
Operating proﬁ t is stated before the share of results of associates 
and before ﬁ nance expense. 
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received 
or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods 
and services provided in the normal course of business, net of 
discounts, VAT and other revenue related taxes.
Sale of goods
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when all of the 
following conditions are satisﬁ ed:
• the Group has transferred to the buyer the signiﬁ cant risks and 
reward of ownership, typically on formal acceptance;
• the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement 
to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective 
control over the goods sold;
• the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;
• it is probable that the economic beneﬁ ts associated with the 
transaction will ﬂ ow to the entity; and 
• the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction 
can be measured reliably. 
Rendering of services
Revenue from a contract to provide services is recognised by 
reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
Long term contracts
When the outcome of a long term contract can be estimated 
reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage 
of completion at the Balance Sheet date. This is normally measured 
by the proportion of contract costs incurred for work performed to 
date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this 
would not be representative of the stage of completion. Variations 
in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the 
extent that the amount can be measured reliably and its receipt is 
considered probable.
When the outcome of a long term contract cannot be estimated 
reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract 
costs incurred where it is probable they will be recoverable. 
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which 
they are incurred. When it is probable that total contract costs will 
exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as 
an expense immediately.
Investment income
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the 
shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established 
(provided that the economic beneﬁ ts will ﬂ ow to the Group and the 
amount of revenue can be measured reliably).
Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic 
beneﬁ ts will ﬂ ow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be 
measured reliably. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by 
reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest 
rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated 
future cash receipts through the expected life of the ﬁ nancial asset 
to that asset’s net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Acquisitions
On acquisition of a subsidiary, the cost is measured as the fair value 
of the consideration. The assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
of subsidiary undertakings that meet the IFRS 3 (revised 2008) 
Business Combinations recognition criteria are measured at the fair 
value at the date of acquisition, except that:
• deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets relating 
to employee beneﬁ t arrangements are recognised and measured 
in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee 
Beneﬁ ts respectively;
• liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by 
the Group of an acquiree’s share-based payment awards are 
measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment; and
• assets (or disposal groups) that are classiﬁ ed as held for sale, 
in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale 
and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with 
that standard .
Where cost exceeds fair value of the net assets acquired the 
difference is recorded as goodwill.
Where the fair value of the net assets exceeds the cost, the 
difference is recorded directly in the Income Statement. The 
accounting policies of subsidiary undertakings are changed where 
necessary to be consistent with those of the Group.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by 
the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, 
the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the 
accounting is incomplete. Those provisional amounts are adjusted 
during the measurement period (see below), or additional assets 
or liabilities recognised, to reﬂ ect new information obtained about 
facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date 
that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of 
that date.
The measurement period is from the date of acquisition to the 
date the Group obtains complete information about facts and 
circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject 
to a maximum of one year. 
In accordance with IFRS 3 (revised 2008) Business Combinations, 
acquisition costs have been expensed through the Income 
Statement. Acquisition related costs refer to external costs incurred 
in acquiring companies, together with the costs of abortive bids and 
the establishment of joint ventures.
Intangible assets
Goodwill
The purchased goodwill of the Group is regarded as having an 
indeﬁ nite useful economic life and, in accordance with IAS 36 
Impairment of Assets, is not amortised but is subject to annual tests 
for impairment. On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly 
controlled entity, the attributable amount to goodwill is included in 
the determination of the proﬁ t or loss on disposal.
3. Accounting policies continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
61
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Acquired intangibles
For acquisitions after 1 November 2004, the Group recognises 
separately from goodwill intangible assets that are separable or 
arise from contractual or other legal rights and whose fair value 
can be measured reliably. These intangible assets are amortised 
at rates calculated to write down their cost or valuation to their 
estimated residual values by equal instalments over their estimated 
useful economic lives, which are considered to be:
Technology  – average of 10 years
Customer relationships – average of 10 years
Orderbooks  – average of 2 years 
Development costs
Development costs that qualify as intangible assets are capitalised 
as incurred, and once the relevant intangible asset is ready for use 
are amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, 
averaging three years (2010: three years). 
Patents and licences
Patents and licences are measured initially at purchase cost and are 
amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, 
averaging ten years (2010: ten years).
Property, plant and equipment
Other than historically revalued land and buildings, property, plant 
and equipment are held at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
any recognised impairment loss. Borrowing costs on signiﬁ cant 
capital expenditure projects are capitalised and allocated to the 
cost of the project. No depreciation is provided on freehold land. 
On other assets depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write 
down their cost or valuation to their estimated residual values by 
equal instalments over their estimated useful economic lives, which 
are considered to be:
Freehold buildings  – up to 50 years
Leasehold buildings  – the period of the lease
Plant and equipment – up to 10 years
Investments in associates
The results and the assets and liabilities of associates are 
accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Any excess 
of the cost of investment over the Group’s share of the fair value 
of identiﬁ able assets and liabilities within the associate at the date 
of acquisition is accounted for as goodwill that is included in the 
carrying value of the investment and is assessed for impairment as 
part of that investment. 
Impairment of non-current assets
Assets that have indeﬁ nite lives are allocated to the Group’s cash 
generating units and tested for impairment at least annually. 
Assets that are subject to depreciation or amortisation are 
reviewed for impairment whenever changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. To the 
extent that the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount an 
impairment loss is recorded for the difference as an expense in the 
Income Statement. The recoverable amount used for impairment 
testing is the higher of the value in use and its fair value less 
costs of disposal. For the purpose of impairment testing assets 
are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately 
identiﬁ able cash ﬂ ows.
Inventories
Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost represents materials, direct labour, other direct costs 
and related production overheads and is determined using the 
ﬁ rst-in ﬁ rst-out (FIFO) method. Net realisable value is based on 
estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred 
to completion and disposal.
Provision is made for slow moving, obsolete and defective items 
where appropriate.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets 
that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for 
their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, 
until such time as the assets are subsequently ready for their 
intended use or sale. Once the assets are ready for their intended 
use these capitalised borrowing costs are depreciated in line with 
the underlying asset.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of speciﬁ c 
borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is 
deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in proﬁ t or loss in the 
period in which they are incurred.
Government grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable 
assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching 
to them and that the grants will be received.
The beneﬁ t of a government loan at a below-market rate of interest 
is treated as a government grant, measured as the difference 
between proceeds received and the fair value of the loan based on 
prevailing market interest rates.
Government grants towards staff re-training costs are recognised 
as income over the periods necessary to match them with the 
related costs and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are 
treated as deferred income and released to the Income Statement 
over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
Tax
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable 
and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable proﬁ t for the year. 
Taxable proﬁ t differs from net proﬁ t as reported in the Income 
Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are 
taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items 
of income that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability 
for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is expected to be payable or recoverable on 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
in the ﬁ nancial statements and the corresponding tax bases used 
in the computation of taxable proﬁ t, and is accounted for using the 
balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally 
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred 
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable taxable 
proﬁ ts will be available in the future against which deductible 
temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are 
not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or 
from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) 
of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither 
the tax proﬁ t nor the accounting proﬁ t.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, 
and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able 
to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is  Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
62
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
Balance Sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufﬁ cient taxable proﬁ ts will be available to allow 
all or part of the asset to be recovered. Deferred tax is calculated 
at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the 
liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged or 
credited in the Income Statement, except where it relates to items 
charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred 
tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally 
enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when they relate to income taxed levied by the same 
tax authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets 
and liabilities on a net basis.
Special capital reserve
The special capital reserve was created as part of a capital 
reduction scheme involving the cancellation of the share premium 
account which was approved by the Court in 1986, in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Foreign currencies
The individual ﬁ nancial statements of each Group company are 
presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in 
which it operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the 
consolidated ﬁ nancial statements, the results and ﬁ nancial position 
of each Group company are expressed in pounds sterling, which 
is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation 
currency for the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements.
In preparing the ﬁ nancial statements of the individual companies, 
transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional 
currency (foreign currencies) are recorded at the rates of exchange 
prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each Balance 
Sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated 
in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rates prevailing on 
the Balance Sheet date. Non-monetary items carried at fair value 
that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the 
rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost 
in a foreign currency are not re-translated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, 
and on the re-translation of monetary items, are included in the 
proﬁ t or loss for the period.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, 
the Group enters into forward contracts and forward currency 
structures which are accounted for as derivative ﬁ nancial 
instruments (see below for details of the Group’s accounting 
policies in respect of such derivative ﬁ nancial instruments).
For the purpose of presenting consolidated ﬁ nancial statements, 
the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are 
translated at exchange rates prevailing on the Balance Sheet date. 
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange 
rates for the period. 
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s 
Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their 
nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand 
deposits, and other short term highly liquid investments that are 
readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an 
insigniﬁ cant risk of change in value.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classiﬁ ed according 
to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An 
equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest 
in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption, and 
direct issue costs are accounted for on an accruals basis to the 
Income Statement using the effective interest method and are 
added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that 
they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their 
nominal value. 
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the ﬁ nancial risks 
of interest rate and foreign currency transactions, and it uses 
derivative ﬁ nancial instruments to hedge its exposure to these 
transactional risks. The Group uses interest rate swap contracts, 
foreign exchange forward contracts and other forward currency 
structures to reduce these exposures and does not use derivative 
ﬁ nancial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments are recognised at fair value at 
the date the derivative contract is entered into and are revalued 
at fair value at each Balance Sheet date. The method by which 
any gain or loss is recognised depends on whether the instrument 
is designated a hedging instrument or not. To be designated as a 
hedging instrument the instrument must be documented as such 
at inception and must be assessed at inception and on an ongoing 
basis to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or 
cash ﬂ ows of hedged items.
Hedge accounting principles are used for foreign currency 
forward contracts and interest rate swaps where appropriate, with 
movements in fair value taken to equity for cash ﬂ ow hedges and 
the proﬁ t and loss account for fair value hedges until such time 
as the underlying amounts of the contract mature. At maturity 
or disposal of the net investment the amounts held in equity will 
be recycled to the Income Statement. Changes in fair value of 
any ineffective portion of net investment hedges and interest 
rate swaps are recognised in the Income Statement immediately. 
The fair values of derivative ﬁ nancial instruments are calculated by 
third party valuers.
3. Accounting policies continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
63
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Where derivatives do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting 
the changes in fair value are immediately recognised in the 
Income Statement.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the 
effective portion of the hedge is recognised in the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income and accumulated in the foreign currency 
translation reserve that forms part of the revenue reserve. The gain 
or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately 
in the Income Statement.
Embedded derivatives
Embedded derivatives that are not closely related to the host 
contract are treated as separate derivatives, with unrealised gains 
and losses reported in the Income Statement.
Retirement beneﬁ t costs
Payments to deﬁ ned contribution retirement beneﬁ t schemes 
are charged as an expense as they fall due. For deﬁ ned beneﬁ t 
schemes, the cost of providing beneﬁ ts is determined using the 
projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being 
carried out at each Balance Sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses 
are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. They 
are recognised outside of the proﬁ t or loss and presented in the 
Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that 
the beneﬁ ts are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on 
a straight-line basis over the average period until the beneﬁ ts 
become vested.
The retirement beneﬁ t obligation recognised in the Balance Sheet 
represents the present value of the deﬁ ned beneﬁ t obligation 
as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced 
by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this 
calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value 
of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to 
the scheme.
Leased assets
Where the Group enters into a lease which entails taking 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset, 
the lease is treated as a ﬁ nance lease. The asset is recorded in the 
Balance Sheet as property, plant and equipment and is depreciated 
over the shorter of the estimated useful economic life and the lease 
term. Future instalments under such leases, net of ﬁ nance charges, 
are included in creditors. The ﬁ nance element of the instalments is 
charged to the Income Statement at a constant rate of charge on 
the remaining balance of the obligation.
All other leases are operating leases and the rental charges are 
taken to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the life 
of the lease.
Share-based compensation
The Group operates equity settled and cash settled share-based 
compensation schemes.
For grants made under the Group’s share-based compensation 
schemes, the fair value is calculated at the grant date and 
recognised in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over 
the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of the shares 
that will eventually vest. The valuation of the options utilises a 
methodology based on the Black-Scholes model. For equity settled 
share-based grants, the total amount recognised is based on the 
fair value of the equity instrument measured at the date the award 
is made. At each Balance Sheet date the impact of any revision to 
vesting estimates is recognised in the Income Statement over the 
vesting period. Proceeds received, net of any directly attributable 
transaction costs, are credited to share capital and share premium.
For cash settled share-based grants, the total amount recognised is 
based on the fair value of the liability incurred. The fair value of the 
liability is re-measured at each Balance Sheet date with changes in 
the fair value recognised in the Income Statement for the period.
Post balance sheet events
Following IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, the Group 
continues to disclose events that it considers material and 
non-disclosure of which can inﬂ uence the economic decisions 
of users of the ﬁ nancial statements.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of 
estimation uncertainty
When applying the Group’s accounting policies, management 
must make assumptions and estimates concerning the future 
that affect the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at the 
Balance Sheet date and the amounts of revenue and expenses 
recognised during the accounting period. Such assumptions and 
estimates are based upon factors such as historical experience, the 
observance of trends in the industries in which the Group operates, 
and information available from the Group’s customers and other 
outside sources.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key 
sources of estimation uncertainty at the Balance Sheet date that 
have a signiﬁ cant risk of causing a material adjustment to the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next ﬁ nancial 
year include:
Assessment of long term contractual arrangements
The Group has long term contracts that fall into different 
accounting periods. In assessing the allocation of revenues and 
costs to individual accounting periods, and the consequential 
assets and liabilities, the Group estimates the total revenues and 
costs forecast to arise in respect of the contract and the stage 
of completion based on an appropriate measure of performance 
as described under revenue recognition on page 60. The Group 
utilises assumptions and projections, principally relating to future 
material, labour and overhead costs. As a consequence, there is a 
risk that total contract costs will exceed those originally estimated 
and the margin will decrease. Changes to initial assumptions, which 
are reviewed on a regular basis, may result in revisions to estimated 
costs and anticipated margins. These are recognised in the period 
in which the estimated costs are determined.
Goodwill impairment review
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of 
the value-in-use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has 
been allocated. The value-in-use calculation requires the entity to 
determine such assets, to estimate the future cash ﬂ ows expected 
to arise from the cash-generating unit and to determine a suitable 
discount rate in order to calculate present value (see Note 14). In 
reviewing the carrying value of goodwill of the various businesses 
the Board has considered the separate plans and cash ﬂ ows of 
these businesses consistent with the requirements of IAS 36 
Impairment of Assets and is satisﬁ ed that these demonstrate that 
no impairment has occurred in respect of continuing operations. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
64
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Tax
The largest category of deferred tax asset which contains 
signiﬁ cant estimation uncertainty and which requires management 
judgement in assessing its recoverability relates to tax losses 
carried forward (see Note 27 for further details).
Applicable accounting standards permit the recognition of deferred 
tax assets only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable 
proﬁ ts will be available to utilise the tax losses carried forward. The 
assessment of future taxable proﬁ ts involves signiﬁ cant estimation 
uncertainty, principally relating to an assessment of management’s 
projections of future taxable income based on business plans 
and ongoing tax planning strategies. These projections include 
assumptions about the future strategy of the Group, the economic 
and regulatory environment in which the Group operates, future 
tax legislation and customer behaviour, amongst other variables 
(see Note 27 for details of tax losses on which deferred tax assets 
have not been recognised).
Assets and liabilities acquired under business combinations
Under IFRS 3 (revised 2008) Business Combinations, it is necessary 
to separately identify and value any acquired intangible assets. In 
order to ascertain the values of the separate assets it is necessary 
for management to estimate the future cash ﬂ ows attributable to 
the assets and estimate their useful economic lives (see Note 15). 
Assets and liabilities are recognised on acquisition when relevant, 
which include deferred tax assets on losses (see Note 27).
Pensions
The liability recognised in relation to retirement beneﬁ t obligations 
is dependent on a number of assumptions, including discount rate, 
mortality rate, salary increases and inﬂ ation. Any change in these 
assumptions would change the amount recognised (see Note 34).
Legal
The Group is subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising 
in the ordinary course of business. The Group is required to assess 
the likelihood of any adverse judgements or outcomes, as well 
as potential ranges of probable losses. A determination of the 
amount of reserves required for these matters is based on a careful 
analysis of each individual issue with the assistance of outside 
legal counsel. However, actual claims incurred could differ from the 
original estimates.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation 
(legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that 
the Group will be required to settle that obligation, and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The amount 
recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration 
required to settle the present obligation at the Balance Sheet date, 
taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the 
obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash ﬂ ows 
estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is 
the present value of those cash ﬂ ows.
When some or all of the economic beneﬁ ts required to settle 
a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a 
receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that 
reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable 
can be measured reliably.
Environmental provisions
Where the Group is liable for decontamination work or the 
restoration of sites to their original condition, the directors make 
their best estimate of the costs needed to complete these works, 
discounted back to present values where appropriate, relying upon 
independent expert third party valuers where appropriate. 
Restructuring provisions
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has 
developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has 
raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out 
the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing 
its main features to those affected by it. The measurement of 
a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures 
arising from the restructuring and not those associated with the 
ongoing activities of the entity.
Warranties
Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations under 
local sale of goods legislation are recognised at the date of sale 
of the relevant products, at the directors’ best estimate of the 
expenditure required to settle the Group’s obligation. 
3. Accounting policies continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
65
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
4. Revenue
All of the Group’s revenue is derived from the sale of goods, revenue from long term contracts and provision of services. The following 
table provides an analysis of the Group’s revenue by destination.
Revenue by destination
Continuing
 operations
2011
£m
Acquisitions
2011
£m
Total 
2011
£m
Total 
2010
£m
UK 129.4 - 129.4 111.6
USA 307.3 12.8 320.1 293.1
Europe 80.1 - 80.1 72.9
Australia and Far East 49.7 1.1 50.8 44.1
Middle East 139.1 - 139.1 51.6
Rest of the world 25.1 0.7 25.8 23.8
730.7 14.6 745.3 597.1
In addition to the revenues shown above there was ﬁ nance income of £0.1 million (2010: £0.5 million).
The directors consider the only countries that are considered signiﬁ cant in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments are the USA and 
the UK, as disclosed above, and Saudi Arabia, which is included within the Middle East category and which had revenue of £104.1 million 
(2010: £12.7 million).
5. Business segments
IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identiﬁ ed on the basis of internal reports about components of the 
Group that are regularly reviewed by the Chief Executive and the Board of Directors to allocate resources to the segments and 
to assess their performance. For management purposes the Group has four operating divisions – Counter-IED, Countermeasures, 
Pyrotechnics and Munitions. These divisions are the basis on which it reports its segmental information and the principal activities are 
as follows:
Counter-IED: IED (improvised explosive device) detection equipment; chemical and biological threat 
detection equipment; IED electronic countermeasures; explosive ordnance disposal equipment; 
demilitarisation services.
Countermeasures: Expendable active and passive countermeasures for naval and air platforms; land-based electronic 
warfare (EW) equipment.
Pyrotechnics: Signals and illumination devices and payloads; cartridge/propellant actuated devices; pyrotechnic 
devices for satellite launch and deployment.
Munitions: Missile and ammunition components; propellants; warheads; fuzes; energetic materials; medium and 
large calibre ammunition.
A segmental analysis of revenue and operating proﬁ t is set out below:
Business segments
2011
£m
2010
£m
Revenue
Counter-IED 167.6 114.9
Countermeasures 200.8 196.3
Pyrotechnics 139.9 170.0
Munitions 237.0 115.9
Total revenue from third parties 745.3 597.1 Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
66
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Operating proﬁ t
2011
£m
 2010
 £m
 As restated*
Counter-IED 31.9 28.1
Countermeasures 46.7 58.8
Pyrotechnics 32.4 40.1
Munitions 40.8 20.9
Unallocated corporate costs (10.0) (10.4)
Total underlying operating proﬁ t
#
141.8 137.5
Acquisition related costs (see Note 33) (5.7) (6.7)
Restructuring and incident costs (7.2) (4.3)
Provision release - 2.4
Intangible amortisation arising from business combinations (24.3) (17.0)
Gain/(loss) on fair value movements on derivatives 2.4 (4.0)
Non-underlying items (34.8) (29.6)
Total operating proﬁ t (see Note 6) 107.0 107.9
Share of post-tax results of associate 0.1 0.1
Finance income 0.1 0.5
Finance expense (16.4) (19.4)
Proﬁ t before tax 90.8 89.1
*  The 2010 ﬁ gures have been restated by including certain items that were identiﬁ ed separately within unallocated corporate costs, and other costs being moved from within 
underlying operating proﬁ t to non-underlying items in order to be consistent with the current year treatment of the equivalent costs 
#
  Before non-underlying items (see Note 6)
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in Note 3.
Unallocated corporate costs
Unallocated corporate costs were £10.0 million, slightly down on 2010. In 2010 two non-recurring cost items which netted out at 
£1.9 million (£4.3m charge, £2.4m credit) were included in unallocated corporate costs, but with the re-formatting of the Income 
Statement this year these items have now been reclassiﬁ ed as non-underlying items in order to be consistent year-on-year. The impact of 
this reclassiﬁ cation is an increase in underlying operating proﬁ t for 2010 to £137.5 million from £135.6 million.
Intra-group transactions
There are no material intra-group transactions included within the above ﬁ gures for revenue and proﬁ t.
Restructuring and incident costs
In 2011, the restructuring and incident costs related to the closure of Plant 3 at Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. (£1.1 million) and the start-up 
of production at Mecar S.A. following the incident that occurred in September 2010 (£2.3 million). At the end of October 2011 the Board 
decided to exit some loss-making munitions product lines in the US and in addition to minor losses, a provision has also been made for 
excess inventory and ﬁ xed assets (£3.8 million). There is a £0.5 million difference between the expense in the Income Statement and the 
amount appearing in the Cash Flow Statement which relates to timing differences and non-cash movements. 
In 2010, the restructuring costs of £1.5 million included the restructuring of the Group’s UK Counter-IED business. As a result, one of the 
two sites out of which it operated was closed. 
In 2010, there were also two separate incidents that stopped production at the Kilgore Flares facility in Tennessee and Mecar in 
Belgium. As a result of these incidents, £2.8 million of non-recurring costs were incurred in respect of the write-off of damaged stock 
and destroyed assets. There is a difference between the expense in the Income Statement and the amount appearing in the Cash Flow 
Statement for restructuring and incident costs in 2010. This is due to only £0.4 million of the incident costs resulting in cash movements, 
along with the £1.5 million of restructuring costs. 
Provision release
During 2010 part of the provision held in respect of the environmental liabilities associated with the Chemring Energetic Devices site in 
Illinois was released following a third party assessment of the provision. This resulted in a £2.4 million credit to the Income Statement.
5. Business segments continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
67
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Information about major customers
Included in revenues arising from the segments are revenues of approximately £246.6 million (2010: £236.7 million) and £103.6 million 
(2010: £12.5 million) which arose from sales to the Group’s two largest customers respectively. The largest customer had sales reported 
in all four of the Group’s reporting segments, whilst sales to the second largest customer were primarily from the munitions segment. 
These were the only individual customers where direct sales account for more than 10% of the total Group revenue for the year.
The Group does not disclose assets or liabilities by segment in the monthly management accounts provided to the Executive Committee 
or the Board of Directors. The Improvements to IFRSs issued in April 2009 only requires information provided to the chief operating 
decision maker as a key decision making tool to be disclosed. The Group has adopted this amendment in order to clarify that the 
chief operational decision makers do not use this as a key decision tool. IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires a geographic analysis of 
non-current assets and so a disclosure of non-current assets by location is shown below.
Non-current assets by location
Continuing
 operations
2011
£m
Acquisitions
2011
£m
Total 
2011
£m
 Total 
 2010
 £m
 As restated*
UK 221.1 - 221.1 200.3
USA 231.5 83.3 314.8 275.7
Europe 150.3 - 150.3 151.0
Australia and Far East 26.6 - 26.6 15.2
629.5 83.3 712.8 642.2
*  See Note 33
6. Operating proﬁ t
The following table shows a reconciliation of cost by function:
2011
£m
 2010
 £m
 As restated*
Total revenue 745.3 597.1
Cost of sales (523.8) (386.8)
Administrative expenses (79.7) (72.8)
Acquisition related costs (see Note 33) (5.7) (6.7)
Restructuring and incident costs (7.2) (4.3)
Provision release - 2.4
Intangible amortisation arising from business combinations (24.3) (17.0)
Gain/(loss) on fair value movements on derivatives 2.4 (4.0)
Non-underlying items (34.8) (29.6)
Total operating proﬁ t 107.0 107.9
*  The 2010 ﬁ gures have been restated by including certain items that were identiﬁ ed separately within unallocated corporate costs, and other costs being moved from within 
underlying operating proﬁ t to non-underlying items in order to be consistent with the current year treatment of the equivalent costs Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
68
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Operating proﬁ t is stated after charging/(crediting):
2011
£m
2010
£m
Research and development costs – customer-funded 38.4 20.6
   – internally-funded 8.8 5.8
Amortisation  – arising from business combinations 24.3 17.0
   – development costs 2.4 2.1
   – patents and licences 0.2 0.3
Depreciation  – property, plant and equipment 16.9 11.5
   – leased assets 0.3 0.1
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.2
Operating lease rentals – plant and machinery 1.5 1.2
   – other 1.0 0.7
Government grant (0.1) (0.1)
Foreign exchange losses 0.3 2.0
Staff costs (see Note 7) 179.3 133.0
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 341.7 254.7
Acquisition related costs 5.7 6.7
Restructuring and incident costs (£0.9 million relates to write down of property, plant and equipment) 7.2 4.3
Provision release - (2.4)
Auditors’ remuneration (see below) 1.3 1.4
A more detailed analysis of auditors’ remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below:
Auditors’ remuneration:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for: 
The audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.4 0.4
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.3
0.8 0.7
Other services:
Tax services – compliance 0.1 0.1
Tax services – advisory 0.2 0.3
Corporate ﬁ nance services 0.2 0.3
0.5 0.7
1.3 1.4
Included in the Group audit fees is £0.1 million (2010: £0.1 million) paid in respect of the parent company.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Statement on Corporate Governance on pages 49 and 50 and includes 
an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors. 
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
During the year the Group incurred professional fees with other accountancy ﬁ rms for the provision of corporate ﬁ nance services of 
£0.4 million (2010: £0.4 million).
7. Staff costs
The average monthly number of employees within each category (including executive directors) was:
2011
Number
2010
Number
Production 3,445 2,842
Administration, sales and marketing 847 662
4,292 3,504
At the year end the number of employees was 4,679 (2010: 4,283).
6. Operating proﬁ t continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
69
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The costs incurred in respect of these employees (including share-based payments) were:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Wages and salaries 150.9 113.0
Social security costs 20.6 15.3
Other pension costs 7.8 4.7
179.3 133.0
The increase in wages and salaries expense since 2010 exceeded the increase in average staff numbers due to the acquisition of 
Roke Manor Research Limited at the end of the prior year and Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. during the current year. Both companies 
have higher than average staff costs compared to the Group as a whole, increasing average wages and salaries accordingly.
8. Finance income
2011
£m
2010
£m
Bank interest 0.1 0.5
9. Finance expense
2011
£m
2010
£m
Bank overdraft and loan interest 2.2 0.3
Loan notes interest 15.5 15.5
Medium term loan interest 0.5 2.8
Finance lease interest 0.4 0.3
Amortisation of debt ﬁ nance costs 1.5 1.2
Unwinding of discount on provisions (see Note 26) 0.3 0.3
Interest cost of retirement beneﬁ t obligations (see Note 34) 0.7 1.2
Amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets (4.7) (2.2)
16.4 19.4
Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate of 6% (2010: 7%) 
to expenditure on such assets.
10. Tax
2011
£m
2010
£m
Current tax charge (14.0) (19.5)
Deferred tax charge (see Note 27) (2.9) (2.9)
Total current year tax charge (16.9) (22.4)
Income tax in the UK is calculated at 26.83% (2010: 28.00%) of the estimated assessable proﬁ t for the year. Tax for other jurisdictions is 
calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The total charge for the year can be reconciled to the Income Statement as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Proﬁ t before tax for the year 90.8 89.1
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 26.83% (2010: 28.00%) (24.4) (24.9)
Income not chargeable for tax purposes 1.0 2.2
Changes in tax rates 2.1 1.3
Research and development tax relief 1.2 -
Utilisation and recognition of tax losses 5.1 0.8
Overseas proﬁ ts taxed at rates different to the standard rate (1.9) (1.8)
Total current year tax charge (16.9) (22.4) Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
70
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
In addition to the income tax expense charged to the Income Statement, a tax credit of £1.4 million (2010: tax debit of £2.0 million) has 
been recognised in equity in the year.
The effective rate of tax incurred by the Group is 18.6% (2010: 25.1%), and the underlying* effective rate of tax incurred by the Group is 
22.9% (2010: 25.9%
#
). This reduction is principally due to additional research and development tax credits following the acquisition of 
Roke Manor Research Limited and utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised. 
*  Before acquisition related costs, restructuring and incident costs, provision release, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and gain/(loss) on fair value 
movements on derivatives 
#
  The 2010 ﬁ gure has been restated due to certain costs being moved from within underlying operating proﬁ t to non-underlying items in order to be consistent with the 
current year treatment of the equivalent costs (see Note 6)
11. Dividends
2011
£m
2010
£m
Dividends on ordinary shares of 1p each*
Final dividend for the year ended 31 October 2010 8.4p (2009: 7.2p) 14.9 12.7
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 October 2011 4.0p (2010: 3.4p) 7.8 6.0
Total dividends 22.7 18.7
* Restated ﬁ gures for prior year to reﬂ ect the subdivision of each 5p ordinary share into ﬁ ve 1p ordinary shares on 28 March 2011
The proposed ﬁ nal dividend in respect of the year ended 31 October 2011 of 10.8p per share will, if approved, absorb approximately 
£20.9 million of shareholders’ funds. The dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and accordingly 
has not been included as a liability in these ﬁ nancial statements.
12. Earnings per share
On 28 March 2011, the 5p ordinary shares in the Company were subdivided into ﬁ ve 1p ordinary shares. All ﬁ gures relating to share 
numbers (including shares in issue, dividends per share and earnings per share) prior to 28 March 2011 have been restated as though the 
share split had already occurred. This has been done to provide comparable information for the current ﬁ nancial year. (See Note 13 for 
further detail on the share split). 
Earnings per share are based on the average number of shares in issue of 185,633,996 (2010: 176,602,225) and proﬁ t on ordinary 
activities after tax of £73.9 million (2010: £66.7 million). Diluted earnings per share has been calculated using a diluted average number 
of shares in issue of 187,636,114 (2010: 178,388,435) and proﬁ t on ordinary activities after tax of £73.9 million (2010: £66.7 million).
The earnings and shares used in the calculations are as follows:
From continuing operations 2011 2010
Earnings
£m
Ordinary shares
Number 
000s
EPS
Pence
Earnings
£m
Ordinary shares
Number 
000s
EPS
Pence
Basic 73.9 185,634 39.8 66.7 176,602 37.8 
Additional shares issuable other 
than at fair value in respect of 
options outstanding - 2,002 (0.4) - 1,786 (0.4) 
Diluted 73.9 187,636 39.4 66.7 178,388 37.4
The number of shares in issue differs from the number held by third parties due to the fact that the Company holds its own shares in 
treasury. Further information on the treasury shares holding is given in Note 30.
Reconciliation from basic earnings per share to underlying earnings per share:
Underlying basic earnings are deﬁ ned as earnings before acquisition related costs, restructuring and incident costs, provision release, 
intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and gain/(loss) on fair value movements on derivatives. The directors 
consider this measure of earnings allows a more meaningful comparison of earnings trends.
2011 2010
Earnings
£m
Ordinary shares
Number 
000s
EPS
Pence
 Earnings
 £m
 As restated*
Ordinary shares
Number 
000s
EPS
Pence
Basic 73.9 185,634 39.8 66.7 176,602 37.8
Non-underlying items
#
22.9 - 12.3 21.3 - 12.0
Underlying 96.8 185,634 52.1 88.0 176,602 49.8
10. Tax continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
71
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
*  Restated 2010 underlying earnings due to reclassiﬁ cation of certain items from underlying costs to non-underlying costs in order to conform with the current year treatment 
of the corresponding items
#
  Acquisition related costs, restructuring and incident costs, provision release, intangible amortisation arising from business combinations and gain/(loss) on fair value 
movements on derivatives (after tax)
The reclassiﬁ cation of certain items from underlying to non-underlying in 2010 has resulted in a revised 2010 ﬁ gure for underlying 
earnings per share. A reconciliation of the movement from the reported ﬁ gure in the 2010 ﬁ nancial statements to the ﬁ gure above is 
shown below. 
2010
Earnings
£m
Ordinary shares
Number 
000s
EPS
Pence
Underlying earnings per share as previously reported 86.9 176,602 49.2
Reclassiﬁ cation of items from underlying to non-underlying (including tax) 1.1 - 0.6
Revised underlying earnings per share 88.0 176,602 49.8
13. Share split and placing
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting on 24 March 2011 a resolution was passed to split the Company’s ordinary shares of 5p 
each (the “Existing Ordinary Shares”) in issue or held in treasury into ordinary shares of 1p each (the “Ordinary Shares”), resulting in 
shareholders holding ﬁ ve Ordinary Shares for each Existing Ordinary Share they held prior to the share split. This share split took effect 
on 28 March 2011.
On 20 April 2011, the Group placed 17,405,183 new ordinary shares at 645p per share, raising £112.4 million before costs. This 
represented an increase of £0.2 million in the ordinary share capital and £110.2 million in the share premium reserve after costs. The 
placing represented in the region of 9.8% of the Group’s market capitalisation and it was anticipated that the proceeds would be used 
fund possible future acquisition opportunities. Approximately £56 million of the placing proceeds were used to fund the acquisition of 
Chemring Detection Systems. The Board did not pursue any further acquisition opportunities during the year and the funds remain within 
the Group’s Balance Sheet.
14. Goodwill 
£m
Cost
At 1 November 2009 149.5
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings as restated (see below) 79.5
Foreign exchange adjustments 2.0
At 31 October 2010 231.0
At 1 November 2010 231.0
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings* 13.5
Foreign exchange adjustments (1.1)
At 31 October 2011 243.4
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 November 2009, 1 November 2010 and 31 October 2011 -
Carrying amount
At 31 October 2011 243.4
At 31 October 2010 231.0
Additions to goodwill since 1 November 2009 can be split as follows: 
£m
Hi-Shear Technology Corporation 47.3
Roke Manor Research Limited, as restated* 28.3
Other acquisitions as restated* 3.9
At 31 October 2010 79.5
Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. 13.5
At 31 October 2011 13.5 Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
72
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the cash generating units (“CGU”) that are expected to beneﬁ t 
from that business combination. The carrying amount of the goodwill has been allocated to our principal CGUs. An analysis of the pre-tax 
discount rates used and the goodwill (after foreign exchange) as at 31 October 2011 by principal CGU is shown below:
2011
%
2010
%
2011
£m
2010
£m
Hi-Shear Technology Corporation 11.6 7.4 48.9 49.2
Simmel Difesa S.p.A.** 13.7 7.4 48.2 48.5
Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. 11.6 7.4 28.6 28.7
Roke Manor Research Limited, as restated* 2.9 7.4 28.3 28.3
Chemring Energetics UK Limited 11.7 7.4 18.1 18.1
Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. 11.6 7.4 15.4 15.5
Chemring Detection Systems, Inc.* 11.6 - 13.4 -
Other 42.5 42.7
Total goodwill 243.4 231.0
* See Note 33
**  Includes £2.9 million goodwill from the acquisition of Chemring Fuze Technology S.r.l. in 2010
The pre-tax discount rate for Roke Manor Research Limited is signiﬁ cantly lower compared to the other CGUs due to the research and 
development tax credits it receives, which result in post-tax cashﬂ ows exceeding pre-tax cashﬂ ows. 
The Group tests goodwill at least annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the CGU are determined from value-in-use calculations. The key assumptions for the value-in-use 
calculations are those regarding the discount rates, the growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the 
period for which management have detailed plans. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reﬂ ect current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks speciﬁ c to the CGU.
Pre-tax discount rates, derived from the Group’s weighted average cost of capital of 9.4% (2010 7.0%), and adjusted for a premium 
speciﬁ c to each CGU to account for differences in currency risk, country risk and other factors affecting speciﬁ c CGUs, have been used to 
discount projected cash ﬂ ows. 
The calculation has used the Group’s forecast ﬁ gures for the next ﬁ ve years. At the end of ﬁ ve years, it assumes the performance of the 
Group companies will grow at a nominal annual rate of 0.5% in perpetuity thereafter. The growth rates are based on management’s view 
of industry growth forecasts. Having considered the budget cuts in the US and UK, management are still forecasting growth similar to 
historic rates. Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market. 
The Group prepares cash ﬂ ow forecasts derived from the most recent ﬁ nancial budgets approved by management for the next ﬁ ve years 
and extrapolates cash ﬂ ows after that period based on growth as described above.
Following a detailed review, no impairment losses for continuing operations have been recognised in the year and no prior impairment 
losses reversed.
There was signiﬁ cant headroom within all the value-in-use calculations. Additionally, stress testing has indicated that no reasonably 
possible change in the key assumptions used would result in a signiﬁ cant impairment charge being recorded in the ﬁ nancial statements. 
A 20% fall in the forecast cashﬂ ows of all the CGUs was modelled and no impairment was required for any CGU in this scenario. 
14. Goodwill continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
73
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
15. Other intangible assets
Development 
costs 
£m
Acquired 
orderbook
£m
Acquired 
technology
£m
Acquired 
customer 
relationships
£m
Patents 
and licences
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 November 2009 11.9 22.4 16.8 66.9 1.8 107.9
Additions 7.5 - - - 0.3 0.3
Disposals (0.6) - - - (0.2) (0.2)
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings* 0.1 30.8 21.3 59.1 0.2 111.4
Foreign exchange adjustments - 2.7 (0.1) 2.2 - 4.8
At 1 November 2010* 18.9 55.9 38.0 128.2 2.1 224.2
Additions 12.4 - - - 0.5 0.5
Disposals (1.0) - - - (0.6) (0.6)
Transfer between categories - 6.8 (4.1) (2.7) - -
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings* - 0.5 27.8 6.8 - 35.1
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.1) (0.4) (0.4) (0.8) - (1.6)
At 31 October 2011 30.2 62.8 61.3 131.5 2.0 257.6
Amortisation
At 1 November 2009 4.0 12.0 3.3 8.9 1.2 25.4
Charge for the year 2.1 7.7 2.4 6.9 0.3 17.3
Disposals (0.5) - - - (0.1) (0.1)
Foreign exchange adjustments - 1.0 (0.7) (0.7) - (0.4)
At 1 November 2010 5.6 20.7 5.0 15.1 1.4 42.2
Charge for the year 2.4 11.3 2.3 10.7 0.2 24.5
Disposals (1.0) - - - (0.6) (0.6)
Transfer between categories - 2.5 (0.5) (2.0) - -
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.1) (1.1) 1.1 (0.3) - (0.3)
At 31 October 2011 6.9 33.4 7.9 23.5 1.0 65.8
Carrying amount
At 31 October 2011 23.3 29.4 53.4 108.0 1.0 191.8
At 31 October 2010* 13.3 35.2 33.0 113.1 0.7 182.0
Acquired intangible assets are recognised at fair value on acquisition and are amortised over their estimated useful lives. Fair values for 
acquired intangible assets are assessed by reference to future estimated cash ﬂ ows discounted at an appropriate rate to present value, or 
by reference to the amount that would have been paid in an arm’s length transaction between two knowledgeable and willing parties. Other 
intangible assets are recognised at cost and are amortised over their estimated useful lives (see Note 3).
*  See Note 33 Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
74
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
16. Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and 
equipment
£m
Total 
£m
Cost or valuation
At 1 November 2009 69.1 124.3 193.4
Additions 14.4 26.5 40.9
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings* 22.3 8.5 30.8
Disposals - (6.2) (6.2)
Foreign exchange adjustments 1.0 3.4 4.4
At 1 November 2010* 106.8 156.5 263.3
Additions 11.1 37.5 48.6
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 0.6 2.9 3.5
Disposals (0.6) (10.1) (10.7)
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.5 (0.4) 0.1
At 31 October 2011 118.4 186.4 304.8
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 November 2009 10.6 47.8 58.4
Charge for the year 0.5 11.1 11.6
Disposals - (6.1) (6.1)
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.6) 2.5 1.9
At 1 November 2010 10.5 55.3 65.8
Charge for the year 3.2 14.0 17.2
Disposals (0.4) (8.5) (8.9)
Foreign exchange adjustments - (0.4) (0.4)
At 31 October 2011 13.3 60.4 73.7
Carrying amount
At 31 October 2011 105.1 126.0 231.1
At 31 October 2010* 96.3 101.2 197.5
The carrying amount of the Group’s plant and equipment includes an amount of £6.1 million (2010: £5.4 million) in respect of assets 
held under ﬁ nance leases. £4.7 million (2010: £2.2 million) of interest has been capitalised (see Note 9) in the year, bringing the 
cumulative cost to £7.3 million (2010: £2.6 million) since 1 November 2008. In the year £0.5 million (2010: £0.3 million) has been 
charged as depreciation on completion of the relevant projects. This results in a net book value for capitalised interest of £6.5 million 
(2010: £2.3 million). 
Land and buildings were revalued at 30 September 1997 by Chestertons Chartered Surveyors, independent valuers not connected with 
the Group, on the basis of depreciated replacement cost for two pyrotechnic sites, and on open market for the remainder.
2011
£m
 2010
 £m
 As restated*
30 September 1997 depreciated replacement cost 5.8 5.8
Freehold at cost 112.6 101.0
118.4 106.8 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
75
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
If stated under historical cost principles the comparable amounts for the total of land and buildings would be:
2011
£m
 2010
 £m
 As restated*
Cost 116.4 104.8
Accumulated depreciation (12.7) (9.9)
Historical cost value 103.7 94.9
* See Note 33
All other tangible ﬁ xed assets are stated at historical cost.
The total amount of additions during 2011, shown above, is different to the ﬁ gure shown in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement due to 
timing of payments. 
At 31 October 2011 the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting 
to £14.6 million (2010: £18.8 million). Included within this ﬁ gure were commitments totalling £10.5 million to be spent on conducting two 
major investment programmes for new countermeasures facilities at Salisbury, UK and Lara, Australia. 
17. Subsidiary undertakings
All subsidiary undertakings have been included in the consolidation. The undertakings held at 31 October 2011 which, in the opinion of the 
directors, principally affected the results for the year or the net assets of the Group are shown below. 
Subsidiary undertaking
Country of incorporation 
(or registration) 
and operation
% of issued ordinary 
share capital controlled 
by Chemring Group PLC Activity
Chemring Countermeasures Ltd England 100 Countermeasures
Chemring Defence UK Ltd England 100 Counter-IED/Pyrotechnics
Chemring Marine Ltd England 100 Pyrotechnics
Chemring EOD Ltd England 100 Counter-IED
Chemring Prime Contracts Ltd England 100 Munitions
Roke Manor Research Ltd England 100 Counter-IED/Countermeasures
Chemring Energetics UK Ltd Scotland 100 Counter-IED/Pyrotechnics/Munitions
Chemring Defence Germany GmbH Germany 100 Counter-IED/Pyrotechnics
Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. USA 100 Countermeasures
Kilgore Flares Company LLC USA 100 Countermeasures
Technical Ordnance, Inc. USA 100 Pyrotechnics/Munitions
Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. USA 100 Pyrotechnics/Munitions
Chemring Ordnance, Inc. USA 100 Pyrotechnics/Munitions
Chemring Military Products, Inc. USA 100 Munitions
Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. USA 100 Counter-IED
Hi-Shear Technology Corporation USA 100 Pyrotechnics
Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. USA 100 Counter-IED
Chemring Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100 Counter-IED/Countermeasures/ 
Pyrotechnics/Munitions
Chemring Defence Spain S.L. Spain 100 Pyrotechnics
Simmel Difesa S.p.A. Italy 100 Counter-IED/Pyrotechnics/Munitions
Chemring Nobel AS Norway 100 Munitions
Mecar S.A. Belgium 100 Munitions
Associated undertaking
CIRRA S.A. France 49 Countermeasures Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
76
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
18. Interest in associate
2011
£m
2010
£m
Interest in associate (including goodwill of £0.5 million (2010: £0.5 million)) 1.5 1.1
Amounts relating to associate:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Total assets 2.7 1.6
Total liabilities (0.7) (0.4)
Net assets 2.0 1.2
Group’s share of net assets (excluding goodwill) 1.0 0.6
The results of the associated undertaking for the year ended 30 September 2011 relate to the Group’s share of CIRRA S.A. CIRRA S.A.’s 
ﬁ nancial year ended on 30 September 2011 and there is no material difference between the results as reported and those that would be 
obtained were CIRRA S.A. to have a year ending on 31 October 2011. 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Total revenue 1.9 1.9
Proﬁ t after tax 0.2 0.2
Group’s share of proﬁ t of associate 0.1 0.1
19. Inventories
2011
£m
2010
£m
Raw materials 49.1 53.1
Work in progress (2010 ﬁ gure restated – see Note 33) 70.8 67.4
Finished goods 26.9 20.8
146.8 141.3
There are no signiﬁ cant differences between the replacement costs and the fair values shown above.
20. Trade and other receivables
2011
£m
2010
£m
Current
Trade receivables 165.5 141.1
Allowance for doubtful debts (1.4) (2.0)
164.1 139.1
Other debtors (2010 ﬁ gure restated – see Note 33) 13.4 14.1
Prepayments and accrued income 13.3 12.4
190.8 165.6
All amounts shown above are due within one year.
The average credit period taken on sales of goods, based on a countback basis, is 45 days (2010: 47 days). No interest is charged on the 
receivables from the date of invoice to payment. 
The Group’s policy is to provide in full for debtors greater than 120 days beyond agreed terms, unless extenuating circumstances 
exist. Due to the nature of the customer base the Group does not experience signiﬁ cant bad debt write-offs and hence no movement 
schedule for the allowance for doubtful debts has been provided due to its immaterial level in 2011 and 2010. The increase in the year of 
trade receivables is in part due to the acquisition of Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. during the year, adding £3.0 million to the trade 
receivables balance. It was also partly due to the timing of invoicing and cash receipts at the end of the current ﬁ nancial year. An ageing 
analysis has not been shown as all signiﬁ cant overdue receivables are covered by the allowance for doubtful debts provision above. 
The vast majority of the trade debtor balance is not yet due based on the average credit terms provided to customers.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair values. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
77
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
21. Cash and cash equivalents
Bank balances and cash comprise cash held by the Group and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
Included within cash is £0.4 million of restricted cash (2010: £31.2 million), of which £nil (2010: £15.0 million) is held in escrow in relation 
to the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme (see Note 34) and £nil (2010: £13.1 million) is held as security against performance related 
bonds at Mecar S.A..
22. Borrowings
2011
£m
2010
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts – sterling denominated 35.6 59.2
– euro denominated 45.9 2.9
Other loans due in less than one year – euro denominated 4.5 3.5
Borrowings due within one year 86.0 65.6
UK medium term bank loans – sterling denominated 1.0 1.1
– euro denominated - 28.0
– other denominated - 2.2
Overseas medium term bank loans – US dollar denominated 0.2 0.3
Other loans – euro denominated 0.7 1.8
Loan notes – sterling denominated 12.5 12.5
– US dollar denominated 247.7 248.7
Borrowings due after more than one year 262.1 294.6
Finance leases 6.4 5.6
Preference shares 0.1 0.1
354.6 365.9
Analysis of total borrowings by currency:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Sterling 54.7 48.6
US dollar 248.8 255.6
Euro 51.1 58.0
Other - 3.7
Total 354.6 365.9
The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows:
2011
%
2010
%
Bank overdrafts 4.6 4.9
UK medium term bank loans – sterling denominated 4.6 4.9
– euro denominated 5.0 5.0
– other denominated 5.5 5.5
Overseas medium term bank loans – US dollar denominated 4.2 4.2
Other loans – euro denominated 5.0 5.0
Loan notes – sterling denominated 6.8 6.8
– US dollar denominated 5.3 – 6.3 5.3 – 6.3 Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
78
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Bank 
loans and 
overdrafts
£m
Loan
 notes
£m
 Other 
 loans* 
 £m
2011
Total
£m
Bank 
loans and 
overdrafts
£m
Loan
 notes
£m
Other 
loans*
£m
2010
Total
£m
Borrowings falling due within:
One year 81.5 - 6.5 88.0 62.1 - 6.1 68.2
Borrowings falling due within:
One to two years 0.5 - 2.6 3.1 30.5 - 4.8 35.3
Two to ﬁ ve years 0.7 - 2.5 3.2 1.1 - - 1.1
After ﬁ ve years - 260.2 0.1 260.3 - 261.2 0.1 261.3
1.2 260.2 5.2 266.6 31.6 261.2 4.9 297.7
Total borrowings 82.7 260.2 11.7 354.6 93.7 261.2 11.0 365.9
* Includes ﬁ nance leases and preference shares
In January 2011, the Group completed a reﬁ nancing of its bank facilities with a syndicate of ﬁ ve banks. The new Group facilities, which 
are unsecured, total £230 million. In addition, the term of the facilities was extended from April 2012 to April 2015. This revolving credit 
facility provides access to committed lending and bonding line support. 
Other loans represent loans held by certain Group companies to fund working capital.
The directors do not believe the fair value of the Group’s borrowings to be materially different to the book values.
There have been no breaches of the terms of the loan agreements or defaults during the current or previous year. 
The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities in various currencies available in respect of which all conditions precedent have 
been met. These facilities are at ﬂ oating interest rates.
2011
£m
2010
£m
Undrawn borrowings
Cash and gross facilities 292.1 219.3
Drawn facilities (142.0) (114.7)
Total undrawn borrowings 150.1 104.6
The Group is subject to two key ﬁ nancial covenants which are tested quarterly, relating to the ratio between earnings before interest, 
tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) and net debt (‘debt ratio’), as well as the ratio between EBITDA and ﬁ nance costs (‘interest 
cover’). The Group comfortably complied with these covenants throughout the year and the position at the year end is detailed below:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Debt ratio
Maximum allowed ratio of net debt to EBITDA 3.0 3.0
Actual ratio of net debt to EBITDA 1.6 2.3
Interest cover
Minimum allowed ratio of EBITDA to ﬁ nance costs 4.0 4.0
Actual ratio of EBITDA to ﬁ nance costs 10.0 8.7
22. Borrowings continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
79
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
23. Obligations under ﬁ nance leases
Minimum lease 
payments
Present value of minimum 
lease payments
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Amounts payable under ﬁ nance leases:
Within one year 2.3 2.8 2.0 2.6
In the second to ﬁ fth years 4.7 3.3 4.4 3.0
Less future ﬁ nance charges (0.6) (0.5) - -
Present value of lease obligations 6.4 5.6 6.4 5.6
Less amounts due within twelve months shown under current liabilities (2.0) (2.6)
Amount due for settlement after twelve months 4.4 3.0
Finance lease obligations attract interest rates of between 2% and 3% above base rate. Lease obligations are denominated in sterling and 
US dollars. 
The fair value of the Group’s leases approximates to their carrying amounts.
The Group’s obligations under ﬁ nance leases are secured by the lessors’ title to the underlying leased assets (see Note 16).
24. Trade and other payables
2011
£m
2010
£m
Current
Trade payables 105.3 100.1
Other payables 33.5 40.5
Other tax and Social Security 4.0 4.6
Advance payments 48.7 52.8
Accruals and deferred income (2010 ﬁ gure restated – see Note 33) 20.9 24.3
212.4 222.3
Non-current – Other creditors 1.2 1.0
Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. Advance payments 
are amounts received from customers on larger contracts to fund working capital. The directors consider that the carrying amount of 
payables approximates to their fair value.
The average credit period taken on purchases of goods is 49 days (2010: 61 days). At the end of 2010 trade payables were high, in terms 
of days, due to excess trade payables acquired with the Mecar acquisition (impact of 9 days). During the ﬁ rst half of 2011 these trade 
payables were settled. It is anticipated that working capital will reduce in 2012. No interest is charged on the payables from the date of 
invoice to payment. 
25. Financial instruments and risk management
The Group uses ﬁ nancial instruments to manage ﬁ nancial risk wherever it is appropriate to do so. The main risks addressed by the 
ﬁ nancial instruments of the Group are interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s policies in respect of the 
management of these risks, which remained unchanged throughout the year, were as follows.
The Group’s multi-national activities expose it to the ﬁ nancial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The 
Group enters into a variety of derivative ﬁ nancial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, including:
• Forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange structures to manage the exchange risk arising from transactional foreign 
exchange exposures within the Group. 
• Interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of the movement in interest rates. 
Foreign currency risk management
The Group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Hence, exposures to exchange rate ﬂ uctuations arise. 
Foreign currency exchange risk can be subdivided into two components, transactional risk and translation risk:
Transactional risk:  The Group policy is to hedge signiﬁ cant transactional currency exposures via the use of forward foreign exchange 
contracts and structures. The measurement and control of this risk is closely monitored on a Group-wide basis.
Translation risk:  The Group translates overseas results and net assets in accordance with the accounting policy in Note 3. The 
translation risk on net assets is mitigated by the transfer of currencies between Group companies and the appropriate 
use of foreign currency borrowings. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
80
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the year end were as follows:
US$ Euro NOK
2011 
AUS$ US$ Euro NOK
2010 
AUS$
Monetary assets (million) 143.9 108.3 44.6 8.4 154.6 69.2 48.7 10.5
Monetary liabilities (million) 314.4 99.6 11.1 3.7 312.5 105.1 17.5 6.9
Foreign currency denominated net assets are partially hedged by currency borrowings. The borrowings detailed below were designated 
as hedging instruments in net investment hedges.
US$ Euro NOK
2011 
AUS$ US$ Euro NOK
2010 
AUS$
Borrowings (million) 405.0 53.1 - - 405.0 53.1 35.0 -
The Group uses foreign exchange contracts to hedge its currency risk, most with a maturity of less than one year from the year end. 
The most signiﬁ cant exchange rates to manage, as far as the Group is concerned, are the US dollar and Euro exchange rates.
The following table details the forward foreign currency contracts for sales of foreign currencies outstanding as at 31 October:
Average exchange rate Expiring within one year
2011
 
2010
 
2011
£m
2010
£m
US dollar 1.56 1.65 48.5 84.2
At the year end, there were two US dollar structures in place which were set up to protect the Income Statement from currency 
ﬂ uctuations during 2012 and so provide an economic hedge. The structure involves a cap and a collar, which lock in the exchange rates to 
give the Group the appropriate protection against transactional ﬂ ows. Hedge accounting was not adopted for this structure. 
The principal amounts of the Group’s Euro and US dollar bank loans and loan notes have been accounted for as net investment hedges on 
the European and US businesses. These hedges are effective throughout the year and the losses arising on translation have been offset 
against the gains on re-translation of the subsidiaries in reserves. 
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 10 cents movement in the relevant foreign currencies against sterling with regards 
to its monetary assets and liabilities. 10 cents represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign 
exchange rates. The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their 
translation at the year end for a 10 cents change in foreign currency rates. 
+10 cents - 10 cents
US dollar impact Euro impact US dollar impact Euro impact
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Gain/(loss) 10.1 13.4 (0.6) 2.5 (11.4) (15.2) 0.7 (3.0)
Other equity 10.1 13.4 (0.6) 2.5 (11.4) (15.2) 0.7 (3.0)
The potential gains or losses arising from these movements in exchange rates would partly result in foreign exchange movements in the 
Income Statement and partly through movements directly through reserves. 
The Group’s sensitivity to foreign currency decreased during the year, mainly due to the movements in working capital at the US and 
European subsidiaries. 
Interest rate risk
The Group ﬁ nances its operations through a mixture of retained proﬁ ts, bank and private placement borrowings and leasing lines of 
credit. The UK borrowings are denominated in sterling, Euro and US dollar, and at the shorter end are subject to ﬂ oating rates of interest. 
The Group has entered into a ﬂ oating to ﬁ xed interest rate swap for the Euro borrowings at a weighted average rate of 3.84%. 
The Group has outstanding ﬁ xed interest loan notes in the US, repayable in full in November 2016 ($80 million), November 2017 
(£12.5 million and $125 million) and in November 2019 ($200 million). This arrangement provides a natural hedge against the Group’s 
investment structure in its US businesses.
As the Group has predominantly ﬁ xed interest rate loans, a change in interest rates would not have an immediate signiﬁ cant impact on 
the Income Statement. 
25. Financial instruments and risk management continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
81
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Liquidity risk
The table below details the maturity proﬁ les of the Group’s derivative ﬁ nancial instruments and loans (excluding ﬁ nance leases, 
preference shares and capitalised facility fees) as at 31 October:
2011 2010
Derivative 
payables
£m
Derivative 
receivables
£m
Loans and 
overdrafts 
£m
Total 
£m
Derivative 
payables
£m
Derivative 
receivables
£m
Loans and 
overdrafts 
£m
Total 
£m
Falling due within:
One year 48.5 (49.9) 90.1 88.7 84.2 (86.0) 65.6 63.8
One to two years 18.7 (19.5) 1.3 0.5 44.9 (45.8) 32.3 31.4
Two to ﬁ ve years - - 0.7 0.7 - - 1.1 1.1
After ﬁ ve years - - 263.4 263.4 - - 264.9 264.9
67.2 (69.4) 355.5 353.3 129.1 (131.8) 363.9 361.2
The proﬁ le of the Group’s ﬁ nancial assets and liabilities is as follows:
Financial assets
2011
Total
£m
2010
Total
£m
Sterling 81.3 38.6
US dollar 69.7 101.2
Australian dollar 6.2 7.1
Euro 98.3 69.8
Other currencies 5.0 4.5
260.5 221.2
Overdraft offset in the UK (2.6) (21.8)
Financial assets 257.9 199.4
Cash at bank and in hand 91.9 58.4
Trade receivables 164.1 139.1
Financial instruments 1.9 1.9
257.9 199.4
Cash balances held in the UK enjoy a right of interest offset against overdraft balances. Overseas cash balances have a weighted average 
interest rate of 0.1% (2010: 0.5%) and are at a ﬂ oating rate. 
The foreign currency balances mostly sit within overseas business units and so do not result in signiﬁ cant exposure to transactional risks 
for the Group. Included within cash is £0.4 million of restricted cash (2010: £31.2 million) (see Note 21). During 2011, a standby letter of 
credit was put in place, substituting the need for funds held in escrow in relation to the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
82
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
Financial liabilities 2011 2010
Floating rate
£m
Fixed rate
£m
Total
£m
Floating rate
£m
Fixed rate
£m
Total
£m
Sterling (40.1) (43.3) (83.4) (25.8) (76.9) (102.7)
US dollar (3.7) (287.8) (291.5) (1.3) (287.4) (288.7)
Euro (5.2) (87.2) (92.4) (0.3) (98.1) (98.4)
Other currencies - (2.3) (2.3) - (7.9) (7.9)
(49.0) (420.6) (469.6) (27.4) (470.3) (497.7)
Overdraft offset in the UK 2.6 21.8
Financial liabilities (467.0) (475.9)
Bank loans and overdrafts (81.5) (62.1)
UK medium term loans (1.0) (31.3)
Loan notes (260.2) (261.2)
Overseas medium term loans (0.2) (0.3)
Other loans (5.2) (5.3)
(348.1) (360.2)
Preference shares (see Note 28) (0.1) (0.1)
Obligations under ﬁ nance leases (6.4) (5.6)
(354.6) (365.9)
Trade payables due within one year (105.3) (100.1)
Financial instruments due within one year (1.5) (1.6)
Trade payables due after more than one year (1.2) (1.0)
Financial instruments due after more than one year (4.4) (7.3)
(467.0) (475.9)
A right of offset exists for currency amounts held within the UK by Barclays Bank PLC. These are used to offset the interest charged on 
any UK overdraft. Cash at bank and in hand consists primarily of overseas funds, which are used as short term intra-group ﬁ nancing as 
well as an internal exchange rate hedge.
The weighted average interest rate of ﬁ xed rate ﬁ nancial liabilities at 31 October 2011 was 5.1% (2010: 5.6%) and the weighted average 
period of funding was ﬁ ve years (2010: six years).
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 
The Group has one interest rate swap, from ﬂ oating to ﬁ xed rate, that expires in April 2015 at a rate of 3.84%. The fair value of interest 
rate swaps recognised on the Balance Sheet at 31 October 2011 was a £4.2 million liability (2010: £5.7 million liability). The Group also 
has two forward exchange structures with a fair value of £1.7 million liability (2010: £3.2 million liability) and £1.9 million asset 
(2010: £1.9 million asset). The total of these ﬁ nancial instruments is a £4.0 million liability (2010: £7.0 million liability).
The following table details the fair value of derivative ﬁ nancial instruments recognised in the Balance Sheet at 31 October:
2011
Total
£m
2010
Total
£m
Interest rate swaps (4.2) (5.7)
Forward exchange contracts 0.2 (1.3)
(4.0) (7.0)
25. Financial instruments and risk management continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
83
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Analysed as:
2011
Total
£m
2010
Total
£m
Included in current assets 1.9 1.9
Included in current liabilities (1.5) (1.6)
Included in non-current liabilities (4.4) (7.3)
(4.0) (7.0)
The following table details the gain/(loss) on fair value movements on derivatives recognised in the Income Statement:
2011
Total
£m
2010
Total
£m
Change in fair value of currency structures 2.4 (3.0)
Amortisation - (1.0)
2.4 (4.0)
Fair value hierarchy
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires companies that carry ﬁ nancial instruments at fair value in the Balance Sheet to disclose 
their level of visibility, determining into which category those ﬁ nancial instruments fall under the fair value hierarchy.
The fair value measurement hierarchy is as follows:
• Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
• Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
(i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
• Level 3 – Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (i.e. as unobservable inputs).
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value:
2011 2010
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Total
£m
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Total
£m
Assets
Forward exchange contracts - 1.9 1.9 - 1.9 1.9
Total assets - 1.9 1.9 - 1.9 1.9
 
2011 2010
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Total
£m
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Total
£m
Liabilities
Borrowings (80.8) (273.8) (354.6) (79.9) (286.0) (365.9)
Interest rate swaps - (4.2) (4.2) - (5.7) (5.7)
Forward exchange contracts - (1.7) (1.7) - (3.2) (3.2)
Total liabilities (80.8) (279.7) (360.5) (79.9) (294.9) (374.8)
There were no assets or liabilities that were classed under Level 3 on the fair value hierarchy.
Credit risk
The Group’s principal ﬁ nancial assets are bank balances and cash, and trade and other receivables, which represent the Group’s maximum 
exposure to credit risk in relation to ﬁ nancial assets. Whilst the Group does not have any signiﬁ cant credit risk exposure to any single 
counterparty, the credit risk on liquid funds and derivative ﬁ nancial instruments is monitored on an ongoing basis using credit ratings 
assigned by international credit rating agencies, the credit default swap market and market capitalisation.
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the Balance Sheet are net of allowances 
for doubtful receivables, based on prior experience and an assessment of the current economic environment. Trade receivables consist 
of a small number of customers spread across diverse geographical areas. Customers are mainly multi-national organisations or 
government agencies with whom the Group has long term business relationships. The Group principally does business with government 
defence departments, such as the US Department of Defense and the UK Ministry of Defence, as well as US and UK defence prime 
contractors (such as Lockheed Martin, BAE Systems and General Dynamics). Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
84
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
The counterparties are monitored on an ongoing basis for credit risk and as at the Balance Sheet date the risk was deemed to be low. 
Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the ﬁ nancial condition of accounts receivable and, when appropriate, action is taken to 
minimise the credit risk to the Group.
Group accounting policy requires letters of credit to be put in place for the majority of contracts with overseas customers. Any departures 
from this policy require approval by the Group ﬁ nance function.
The Group’s price risk is primarily in relation to the cost of raw materials and is not considered signiﬁ cant. Price risk is managed through 
negotiations with suppliers and, where appropriate, the agreement of ﬁ xed price supply contracts.
Capital management
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market conﬁ dence and to sustain future 
development of the business. The Board monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the return on capital. From 
time to time the Group purchases its own shares on the market; the timing of these purchases depends on the market prices. Primarily, 
the shares are intended to be used for satisfying awards under the Group’s share-based incentive schemes. Buy and sell decisions are 
made on a speciﬁ c transaction basis by the Board. Following the share placing in April 2011 and the subsequent decision not to pursue 
further acquisition opportunities in the immediate future for which the funds had been partly intended, the Board has concluded that 
the Group should consider returning surplus capital to shareholders whilst maintaining the strength of the Balance Sheet, if deemed 
appropriate over the course of the next year. 
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements. 
26. Provisions
Environmental 
provisions
£m
Warranty 
provisions
£m
Restructuring 
provisions
£m
Total
£m
At 1 November 2010 2.2 0.9 1.9 5.0
Unwinding of discount – charged to interest 0.3 - - 0.3
Provided for in the year 0.7 0.6 - 1.3
Effect of foreign exchange movements (0.2) (0.2) - (0.4)
Paid in the year (0.3) (0.3) (0.5) (1.1)
Released in the year - - (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 October 2011 2.7 1.0 1.2 4.9
Analysed as:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Included in current liabilities 2.5 1.9
Included in non-current liabilities 2.4 3.1
4.9 5.0
At the year end, a third party assessment was carried out of the provision held in respect of the environmental liabilities associated with 
the Chemring Energetic Devices site in Illinois, USA. The majority of the provision is expected to be utilised within the next year, with the 
balance due in future years.
The warranty provisions at 31 October 2011 are held by Simmel Difesa S.p.A. and represent management’s best estimate of the Group’s 
liability under six year warranties, based on past experience for defective products. 
The restructuring provisions at 31 October 2011 relate to Chemring Countermeasures Limited and Chemring EOD Limited. The provisions 
represent management’s best estimates of the costs to be incurred on the restructuring programmes during 2012.
25. Financial instruments and risk management continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
85
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
27. Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities/(assets) recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the year.
Accelerated tax 
depreciation
£m
Retirement beneﬁ t 
obligations
£m
Tax losses
£m
Acquired 
intangibles
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 November 2009 10.9 (7.9) (2.1) 8.4 (4.4) 4.9
Charge/(credit) to income 2.9 0.1 0.1 (5.9) 5.7 2.9
Charge/(credit) to equity - 1.4 - 0.9 (0.1) 2.2
Amounts arising on acquisition of 
subsidiary undertakings (0.2) - (0.5) 28.6 (2.8) 25.1
At 1 November 2010 as restated 
(see Note 33) 13.6 (6.4) (2.5) 32.0 (1.6) 35.1
Charge/(credit) to income 5.3 0.4 (6.1) (8.2) 11.5 2.9
Credit to equity - (0.4) - (0.3) - (0.7)
At 31 October 2011 18.9 (6.4) (8.6) 23.5 9.9 37.3
The Finance Act 2011, which provides for a reduction in the main rate of corporation tax from 26% to 25%, effective from 1 April 2012, was 
substantively enacted on 5 July 2011. The impact of the rate reduction has been reﬂ ected in the calculation of the UK deferred tax liability 
provided at 31 October 2011. Therefore, a credit of £2.1 million has been included within the deferred tax charge for the year.
The Government has also indicated that it intends to enact a future reduction in the main tax rate of 1% down to 24% on 1 April 2013. 
The future 1% main tax rate reduction is expected to have a similar impact on our ﬁ nancial statements as outlined above, subject to the 
impact of other developments in our tax position which may reduce the beneﬁ cial effect of this in our tax rate. As this reduction in the 
UK corporate tax rate has not been substantially enacted at the Balance Sheet date, this is considered a non-adjusting event in accordance 
with IAS 10 Events After the Reporting Period and no adjustments have been made. The impact of this and any further reduction will be 
taken into account at subsequent reporting dates, once the change has been substantively enacted.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy. Deferred tax balances after 
offset, for balance sheet purposes, are analysed as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Deferred tax liabilities 59.0 52.4
Deferred tax assets (2010 ﬁ gure restated – see Note 33) (21.7) (17.3)
37.3 35.1
At the Balance Sheet date the Group had unrecognised tax losses of £53.0 million (2010: £72.6 million) potentially available for offset 
against future proﬁ ts in certain circumstances, with the majority arising from recent acquisitions. No deferred tax asset has been 
recognised in respect of this amount because of the unpredictability of short term future qualifying proﬁ t streams.
28. Share capital
2011
£m
2010
£m
Issued and fully paid
195,476,434 (2010: 177,943,255) ordinary shares of 1p each* 2.0 1.8
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting on 24 March 2011 a resolution was passed to split the Company’s ordinary shares of 
5p each (the “Existing Ordinary Shares”) in issue or held in treasury into ordinary shares of 1p each (the “Ordinary Shares”), resulting 
in shareholders holding ﬁ ve Ordinary Shares for each Existing Ordinary Share they held prior to the share split. This share split took 
effect on 28 March 2011.
On 20 April 2011, the Company placed 17,405,183 new ordinary shares at an issue price of 645p per share, giving rise to £0.2 million 
of ordinary share capital and £110.2 million to the share premium reserve after costs (see Note 13). 
127,996 ordinary shares (2010: 14,095*) were issued under the Group’s savings-related share schemes during the year. 
The Company’s share capital also includes 62,500 7% cumulative preference shares of £1 each, which are all issued and fully paid-up, and 
are classiﬁ ed for accounting purposes within non-current liabilities. The cumulative preference shares carry an entitlement to a dividend 
at the rate of 7p per share per annum, payable in equal instalments on 30 April and 31 October each year. Holders of the preference 
shares have the right on winding-up to receive, in priority to any other classes of shares, the sum of £1 per share together with any arrears 
of dividends.
* Restated ﬁ gures for prior year to reﬂ ect the subdivision of each 5p ordinary share into ﬁ ve 1p ordinary shares on 28 March 2011 Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
86
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
29. Reserves
The share premium account, the special capital reserve and the revaluation reserve are not distributable.
Included within retained earnings are £1.2 million of retained proﬁ ts (2010: £1.1 million) relating to the associated undertaking and 
£0.1 million (2010: £0.1 million) of the Company’s own shares held by the Group’s ESOP trustee.
30. Own shares
2011
£m
2010
£m
Balance at 1 November 2010 7.2 5.2
Acquired in the year 1.5 3.9
Issued in the year to satisfy employee share awards (2.1) (1.9)
Balance at 31 October 2011 6.6 7.2
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Chemring Group PLC purchased in the market and held by the Group to satisfy 
awards under the Group’s share-based incentive schemes (see Note 32). During the year 300,000 (2010: 634,400*) ordinary shares were 
acquired, and 456,855 (2010: 500,055*) ordinary shares were distributed following the vesting of awards under the Chemring Group 
Performance Share Plan. The total number of ordinary shares held in treasury at 31 October 2011 was 1,343,145 (2010: 1,500,000*) with 
an average cost of £4.89 (2010: £4.83*) per share. This represents 0.7% of the total issued and fully-paid ordinary share capital.
Since the year end, the Company has acquired an additional 1,000,000 ordinary shares, bringing the number of shares held in treasury at 
23 January 2012 to 2,343,145, with an average cost of £4.50 per share.
* Restated ﬁ gures for prior year to reﬂ ect the subdivision of each 5p ordinary share into ﬁ ve 1p ordinary shares on 28 March 2011
31. Obligations under non-cancellable operating leases
2011
£m
2010
£m
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in the Income Statement in the year 2.5 1.9
At the Balance Sheet date the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases, which fall due as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Within one year 4.0 2.7
Two to ﬁ ve years 10.8 7.7
14.8 10.4
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group. Leases are negotiated for an average term of three years and rentals 
are ﬁ xed for the lease period with an option to extend for a further period at the then prevailing market rate.
The increase in operating lease commitments since 2010 is primarily due to the acquisition of Chemring Detection Systems, Inc..
32. Share-based payments
The Group operates share-based compensation arrangements to provide incentives to the Group’s senior management and other 
eligible employees.
Details of the three schemes which operated during the year are as follows:
The Chemring Group Performance Share Plan (the “PSP”)
Under the PSP, conditional awards of ordinary shares are made at nil cost. Awards ordinarily vest on the third anniversary of the award 
date. The scheme commenced in March 2006.
Number of conditional shares awarded*
2011 2010
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,741,095 1,793,150
Awarded during the year 711,212 554,040
Vested during the year (456,855) (500,055)
Lapsed during the year (202,475) (106,040)
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,792,977 1,741,095
Subject to vesting at the end of the year - - Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
87
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The following awards were outstanding at 31 October 2011:
Date of award Number of ordinary shares  
 under award*
Vesting price 
per share
£
Date when awards 
will ordinarily vest
21 Jan 2009 614,920 Nil 21 Jan 2012
24 Jun 2009 30,530 Nil 24 Jun 2012
20 Jan 2010 447,365 Nil 20 Jan 2013
18 Mar 2010 25,575 Nil 18 Mar 2013
19 Jan 2011 657,095 Nil 19 Jan 2014
24 Oct 2011 17,492 Nil 24 Oct 2014
* Restated ﬁ gures for prior year to reﬂ ect the subdivision of each 5p ordinary share into ﬁ ve 1p ordinary shares on 28 March 2011
The Group has applied a discount to the share-based payment, to reﬂ ect the anticipated achievement of the stipulated targets for each 
PSP award, based on the predicted ﬁ gures within the Group’s ﬁ ve year plan as well as the expected number of leavers over the life of the 
PSP awards.
As there is no option element the share price is discounted based on the following assumptions:
• dividend growth at 2p per annum (2010: growth at 1p per annum);
• weighted average cost of capital 9.4% (2010: 7.5%).
The weighted average fair value of awards made during the year was 607p (2010: 584p). 
The closing share price on the date of vesting of awards in the year was 666.6p (2010: 612p). The compensation expense recognised in 
respect of share options is based on their fair value at the grant date calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The Group recognised a net charge of £0.2 million (2010: £2.3 million) in respect of share-based payment transactions during the year. 
The Chemring Group 2008 UK Sharesave Plan (the “UK Sharesave Plan”)
Options were granted during the year on 29 July 2011. 
2011 2010
Number of 
share options
Weighted average 
exercise price 
Pence
 Number of 
 share options*
Weighted average 
exercise price 
Pence
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 449,100 385 390,180 361
Granted during the year 182,629 508 89,605 478
Exercised during the year (85,885) 373 (2,160) 360
Lapsed during the year (40,680) 400 (28,525) 356
Outstanding at the end of the year 505,164 430 449,100 385
Subject to exercise at the end of the year 116,805 374 --
The following awards were outstanding at 31 October 2011:
Date of grant Number of ordinary shares 
 under option*
 
 Exercise price 
 per share*
 £
Dates between which 
options may be exercised 
1 Aug 2008 11,395 3.736 1 Oct 2011 – 1 Apr 2012
1 Aug 2008 105,410 3.736 1 Oct 2013 – 1 Apr 2014
31 Jul 2009 80,905 3.444 1 Oct 2012 – 1 Apr 2013
31 Jul 2009 49,855 3.444 1 Oct 2014 – 1 Apr 2015
30 Jul 2010 40,485 4.784 1 Oct 2013 – 1 Apr 2014
30 Jul 2010 34,485 4.784 1 Oct 2015 – 1 Apr 2016
29 Jul 2011 120,104 5.080 1 Oct 2014 – 1 Apr 2015
29 Jul 2011 62,525 5.080 1 Oct 2016 – 1 Apr 2017
* Restated ﬁ gures for prior year to reﬂ ect the subdivision of each 5p ordinary share into ﬁ ve 1p ordinary shares on 28 March 2011
The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year was 42p (2010: 99p).
The weighted average fair value of options exercised in the year was 85p (2010: 74p).
The weighted average share price on exercise of the options during the year was 610p (2010: 616p).
The fair values of the share options in the UK Sharesave Plan are based on the difference between the exercise price and the share price 
on the grant date of the option. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
88
The Chemring Group 2008 US Stock Purchase Plan (the “US Stock Purchase Plan”)
Options were granted during the year on 29 July 2011. This plan provides US employees with the opportunity to share in the future 
success of the Group and mirrors the UK Sharesave Plan subject to certain legal and tax differences due to the differing jurisdictions. 
2011 2010
Number of 
share options
Weighted average 
exercise price 
Pence
 Number of 
 share options*
Weighted average 
exercise price 
Pence
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 114,355 423 84,230 353
Granted during the year 40,635 481 56,135 499
Exercised during the year (42,111) 348 (11,935) 370
Lapsed during the year (20,089) 385 (14,075) 348
Outstanding at the end of the year 92,790 491 114,355 423
Subject to exercise at the end of the year -- 9,625 370
The following options were outstanding at 31 October 2011:
Date of grant Number of ordinary shares 
 under option*
 
 Exercise price 
 per share*
 £
Dates between which 
options may be exercised 
30 Jul 2010 52,155 4.988 30 Jul 2012 – 29 Oct 2012
29 Jul 2011 40,635 4.810 29 Jul 2013 – 28 Oct 2013
* Restated ﬁ gures for prior year to reﬂ ect the subdivision of each 5p ordinary share into ﬁ ve 1p ordinary shares on 28 March 2011
The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year was 69p (2010: 79p).
The weighted average fair value of options exercised in the year was 80p (2010: 40p).
The weighted average share price on exercise of the options during the year was 610p (2010: 616p).
The fair values of the share options in the US Stock Purchase Plan are based on the difference between the exercise price and the share 
price on the date of grant of the option.
33. Acquisitions
The following acquisition was completed during the year ended 31 October 2011:
Name of business acquired
Activity Date of acquisition
Proportion of 
shares acquired 
%
Acquisition 
consideration 
£m
Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. – business and assets Counter-IED 1 July 2011 N/A 56.1
Cash paid for acquisitions in the year 56.1
Net overdraft assumed with acquisitions 1.9
Cash outﬂ ow from investing activities 58.0
Acquisition related costs included within cash generated from operations 2.5
Net cash outﬂ ow relating to Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. 60.5
Acquisition related costs for acquisitions made in previous years 4.1
Net cash outﬂ ow relating to acquisitions 64.6
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
32. Share-based payments continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
89
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The net assets acquired are shown below:
Book value
£m
Provisional 
fair value 
adjustments
£m
Provisional 
fair value
£m
Intangible assets 4.8 30.3 35.1
Property, plant and equipment 4.2 (0.7) 3.5
Overdraft assumed (1.9) - (1.9)
Working capital 8.0 (2.1) 5.9
Net assets acquired 15.1 27.5 42.6
Goodwill 13.5
Total 56.1
Total cash consideration 56.1
The acquisition was originally estimated to cost approximately £55 million, based on the exchange rate prevailing at the date of 
announcement of the acquisition in April 2011. The ﬁ nal cost of £56.1 million was due to the US dollar strengthening between the date on 
which the deal was announced and the completion date.
The acquisition during the year was completed in order to enhance the Group’s existing Counter-IED detection capabilities and the 
prospect of substantial opportunities for growth within Chemring Detection Systems’ chemical and biological detection programmes. 
Further information can be found in the Review by the Chief Executive.
The acquisition price was based on a cash-free/debt-free basis, however, at completion an overdraft was assumed. In compensation, trade 
receivables of the same amount were transferred with the business. 
For the above acquisition the initial measurement period was incomplete as at the Balance Sheet date and so the fair values stated are all 
provisional. If there are changes to the provisional value next year the 2011 Balance Sheet will be restated. In the current year there were 
measurement adjustments to the acquired balance sheets of Roke Manor Research Limited, Mecar and Chemring Fuze Technology S.r.l.. 
Roke Manor 
Research Limited
£m
Mecar
£m
Chemring Fuze 
Technology S.r.l.
£m
Total
£m
Intangible non-current assets (0.1) - - (0.1)
Property, plant and equipment - 8.8 - 8.8
Deferred tax - 0.7 - 0.7
Working capital (0.7) (3.2) (0.1) (4.0)
(Decrease)/increase to net assets (0.8) 6.3 (0.1) 5.4
Goodwill as at 31 October 2010 27.5 7.4 2.8 37.7
Increase/(decrease) to goodwill 0.8 (6.3) 0.1 (5.4)
Goodwill as at 31 October 2011 28.3 1.1 2.9 32.3
There was a decrease in the fair value of acquired inventory at Roke Manor Research Limited of £1.0 million, and a decrease in the fair 
value of acquired current tax liabilities of £0.3 million, resulting in a net reduction to the fair value of working capital of £0.7 million. 
There was also a decrease in development costs of £0.1 million, resulting in a revised goodwill ﬁ gure of £28.3 million. 
At Mecar the fair value of other receivables decreased by £0.7 million and accruals increased by £2.5 million, resulting in a £3.2 million 
reduction in the fair value of working capital. There was an increase in the deferred tax asset of £0.7 million and a revaluation of property, 
plant and equipment that increased the fair value by £8.8 million. This revaluation of the property, plant and equipment was undertaken 
by an independent valuer. The net effect reduced goodwill by £6.3 million down to £1.1 million. 
An additional £0.1 million of accruals were identiﬁ ed in relation to Chemring Fuze Technology S.r.l., resulting in revised goodwill of 
£2.9 million.  Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
90
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
The Balance Sheet as at 31 October 2010 has been restated to reﬂ ect the above changes. 
Original 2010 
balance
£m
Fair value 
adjustment
£m
Restated 2010 
balance
£m
Goodwill 236.4 (5.4) 231.0
Development costs 13.4 (0.1) 13.3
Land and buildings 87.5 8.8 96.3
Deferred tax asset 16.6 0.7 17.3
Work in progress 68.4 (1.0) 67.4
Other debtors 14.8 (0.7) 14.1
Current tax liabilities (8.0) 0.3 (7.7)
Accruals and deferred income (21.7) (2.6) (24.3)
Adjustments from book value to provisional fair value arise principally from the application of Group accounting policies on working 
capital and the recognition of intangible assets under IFRS 3 Business Combinations and Fair Value Adjustments to Inventories, 
Receivables, Property, Plant and Equipment. Intangible assets relate principally to customer relationships and technology.
All intangible assets were recognised at their respective fair values. The residual excess of total cost over the fair value of net assets 
acquired is recognised as goodwill in the ﬁ nancial statements. Goodwill represents the value of synergies and assembled workforces 
acquired and future proﬁ ts from new markets.
The acquisition during the year contributed £14.6 million of revenue and £0.9 million to the Group’s proﬁ t before interest and tax for the 
period between the date of acquisition and the Balance Sheet date.
If the acquisition had been completed on the ﬁ rst day of the ﬁ nancial year, Group revenue for the year would have been approximately 
£775.6 million, underlying proﬁ ts before tax for the year would have been approximately £130.3 million, and statutory proﬁ ts before tax 
for the year would have been approximately £92.8 million. This information is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that 
would have occurred had the operations been acquired at the start of the year, nor of the future results of the combined operations.
Acquisition related costs
A total of £5.7 million (2010: £6.7 million) of costs relating to the acquisition above, as well as acquisitions completed in previous years, 
have been recognised in the Income Statement as non-underlying items. 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Hi-Shear Technology Corporation - 2.0
Mecar S.A. 0.2 3.4
Roke Manor Research Limited 0.2 0.9
Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. 2.5 -
Aborted acquisition 0.9 -
Joint ventures and other acquisition related costs 1.9 0.4
Total acquisition related costs 5.7 6.7
This ﬁ gure differs from the cash ﬂ ow ﬁ gure arising from acquisition related costs of £6.6 million due to £0.9 million of ﬁ nal payments 
associated with the acquisition of Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc., as required under the original purchase agreement.
34. Pensions
Within the UK, the Group operates a deﬁ ned beneﬁ t scheme (the “Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme”). In Germany, Chemring 
Defence Germany GmbH operates a deﬁ ned beneﬁ t scheme (the “Chemring Defence Germany Scheme”) and in Norway, Chemring 
Nobel AS operates a deﬁ ned beneﬁ t scheme (the “Chemring Nobel Scheme”). The other UK and overseas arrangements are all deﬁ ned 
contribution schemes with a combined cost of £6.6 million (2010: £5.3 million). 
The Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme is a funded scheme and the assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee administered 
fund. A full actuarial valuation for the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme as at 6 April 2009 has been prepared and updated to 
31 October 2011 by a qualiﬁ ed actuary, using the projected unit credit method. The main assumptions for the scheme are detailed below.
Under the funding plan agreed with the trustees following the 2009 actuarial valuation, the Company agreed to eliminate the deﬁ cit 
calculated at that time over a period of 9.75 years. The Company and the trustees monitor funding levels annually, and a new funding 
plan is agreed with the trustees every three years, based on actuarial valuations. The next triennial valuation is due to be completed as 
at 6 April 2012. The Group considers that the current contribution rates agreed with the trustees are sufﬁ cient to eliminate the calculated 
deﬁ cit over the agreed period.
33. Acquisitions continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
91
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The Group has provided letters of credit and bank guarantees to the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme totalling £27.2 million 
(2010: £7.2 million). The letters of credit and guarantees may be drawn upon in certain events of default by the Company. The letters 
of credit totalling £20 million were provided in order to facilitate the release of £15 million of restricted cash pledged by the Company 
to the scheme, and the additional £5 million was in line with the agreed funding plan. 
The Group is currently consulting with active members of the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme on the proposed closure of the 
scheme to future accrual. 
The Chemring Defence Germany Scheme is an unfunded scheme. The actuarial liability has been calculated at 31 October 2011 by a 
qualiﬁ ed actuary using the projected unit credit method. The main assumptions used were a discount rate of 5.3%, inﬂ ation rate of 1.8% 
and rate of increase in deferred pensions of nil%. The net deﬁ cit of the Chemring Defence Germany Scheme was £1.3 million at 
31 October 2011 (2010: £1.3 million).
The Chemring Nobel Scheme is an unfunded scheme. The actuarial liability has been calculated at 31 October 2011 by a qualiﬁ ed 
actuary using the projected unit credit method. The main assumptions used were a discount rate of 3.3%, inﬂ ation rate of 2.5% and 
rate of increase in deferred pensions of 0.7%. The net deﬁ cit of the Chemring Nobel Scheme was £0.2 million at 31 October 2011 
(2010: £0.8 million).
The amount recognised in the Balance Sheet in respect of the Group’s deﬁ ned beneﬁ t schemes is as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Present value of funded and unfunded obligations (65.2) (61.9) (63.0)
Fair value of scheme assets 40.0 38.9 34.9
Net liability recognised in the Balance Sheet (25.2) (23.0) (28.1)
An analysis of the net liabilities recognised is as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Change
£m
Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme (23.7) (20.9) (2.8)
Chemring Defence Germany Pension Scheme (1.3) (1.3) -
Chemring Nobel AS Pension Scheme (0.2) (0.8) 0.6
Net liability recognised in the Balance Sheet (25.2) (23.0) (2.2)
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of the Group’s deﬁ ned beneﬁ t schemes are as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Amounts included within operating proﬁ t:
Current service (cost)/credit (1.2) 0.6
Amounts included as other ﬁ nance costs:
Expected return on scheme assets 2.5 2.3
Discount on scheme liabilities (3.2) (3.5)
(0.7) (1.2)
Net charge (1.9) (0.6)
Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income are as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets
 (i)
(1.3) 1.4
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities
 (ii)
(0.5) 2.6
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income (1.8) 4.0
(i)  scheme assets at the Balance Sheet date;
(ii) present value of the scheme liabilities at the Balance Sheet date. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
92
Changes in the present value of the deﬁ ned beneﬁ t obligations are as follows: 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Opening deﬁ ned beneﬁ t obligations (61.9) (63.0)
Service credit (1.2) 0.6
Interest cost (3.2) (3.5)
Contributions from scheme members (0.6) (0.6)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (0.5) 2.6
Beneﬁ ts paid 2.2 2.0
Closing deﬁ ned beneﬁ t obligations (65.2) (61.9)
Movements in the fair value of the schemes’ assets were as follows: 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Opening fair value of schemes’ assets 38.9 34.9
Expected return on scheme assets 2.5 2.3
Actuarial (losses)/gains (1.3) 1.4
Contributions from scheme members 0.6 0.6
Contributions from sponsoring companies 1.5 1.7
Beneﬁ ts paid (2.2) (2.0)
40.0 38.9
The total scheme assets updated to 31 October along with the expected rates of return on assets were as follows: 
2011 2010 2009
Long term rate of 
return expected
£m
Long term rate of 
return expected
£m
Long term rate of 
return expected
£m
Equities 6.8% 27.7 7.65% 27.7 8.4% 24.7
Bonds 3.4% 12.3 4.2% 11.2 4.9% 10.2
Total fair value of assets 40.0 38.9 34.9
The expected rates of return are determined by reference to relevant published indices. The overall expected rate of return is calculated 
by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the scheme’s investment portfolio.
History of experience gains and losses: 
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
2007
£m
Present value of funded and unfunded obligations (65.2) (61.9) (63.0) (42.0) (48.3)
Fair value of scheme assets 40.0 38.9 34.9 28.4 35.0
Deﬁ cit in the schemes (25.2) (23.0) (28.1) (13.6) (13.3)
Experience gains on scheme liabilities - 3.8 - - -
Percentage of scheme liabilities - 6.1% - - -
Experience (losses)/gains on scheme assets (1.3) 1.4 4.2 (9.9) 0.3
Percentage of scheme assets (3.3)% 3.6% 12.0% (34.9)% 0.9%
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
34. Pensions continued Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
93
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Analysis of movement in the deﬁ cit in the schemes during the year: 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Opening deﬁ cit in schemes (23.0) (28.1)
Current service (cost)/credit (1.2) 0.6
Contributions 1.5 1.7
Other ﬁ nance costs (0.7) (1.2)
Actuarial (loss)/gain (1.8) 4.0
Closing deﬁ cit in the schemes (25.2) (23.0)
The principal assumptions used in the actuarial valuation of the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme were as follows:
2011 2010
Discount rate 5.0% 5.35%
Rate of increase in salaries 4.05% 4.45%
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 3.0% 3.4%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (where applicable) 3.0% 3.4%
Inﬂ ation assumption – RPI 3.05% 3.45%
    – CPI 2.35% 2.75%
Expected return on scheme assets 5.72% 6.6%
In determining the pension liabilities the Group uses mortality assumptions which are based on published mortality tables. For the 
Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme, the actuarial table currently used is SAPS Year of Birth Tables with a medium cohort and 
1% underpin. 
Life expectancy at 65:
2011 2010
Future pensioners  – male 88.2 88.5
    – female 91.0 91.9
Current pensioners  – male 86.3 86.6
    – female 89.1 89.8
The assumption considered to be the most signiﬁ cant is the discount rate adopted. If the discount rate in the scheme were to change by 
0.1% then it is predicted that the deﬁ cit in the scheme would change by approximately £1.2 million. A change in the rate of inﬂ ation by 
0.1% is predicted to change the deﬁ cit by approximately £0.8 million and a one year change to the longevity assumption would change 
the deﬁ cit by approximately £1.6 million.
The Group anticipates contributions to the deﬁ ned beneﬁ t schemes for the year ending 31 October 2012 will be £2.2 million 
(2011: £2.0 million).
35. Contingent liabilities
The Group enters into contracts which sometimes have offset commitments. These requirements are valued at the time of the contract 
being awarded. The cost of the offsets are reviewed throughout the contract life and provided for to the extent of the potential liability. 
At 31 October 2011, the Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and contractual performance guarantees and other matters 
arising in the ordinary course of business. Where it is expected that a material liability will arise in respect of these matters, appropriate 
provision is made within the Group ﬁ nancial statements. As the conditions of these guarantees are currently being met, no obligating 
event is foreseeable and therefore no provision has been made at the year end.
The Group is, from time to time, party to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business. The directors do 
not anticipate that the outcome of these proceedings, actions and claims, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse 
effect upon the Group’s ﬁ nancial position.
During the year the Group wound up its captive insurance company, CHG Insurance Limited. CHG Insurance Limited ceased to provide 
insurance cover for the Group on 31 October 2010, and the Group has instead carried a self-insured deductible of £2.5 million on its 
material damage and business interruption insurance cover since that date.  Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
94
36. Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note. 
Trading transactions
There are no trading activities between the Group and its associate.
Remuneration of key management personnel 
The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the 
categories speciﬁ ed in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Further information on the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the 
audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 47.
The directors of the Company had no material transactions with the Company during the year other than as a result of service agreements. 
The remuneration of the executive directors is determined by the Remuneration Committee having regard to the performance of the 
individuals and market trends. The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the Board having regard to the practice 
of other companies and the particular demands of the Group.
2011
£m
2010
£m
Remuneration of the executive and non-executive directors 1.5 1.6
Share-based payments - 0.5
Total 1.5 2.1
Notes to the Group Financial Statements Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
95
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Independent Auditors’ Report on the 
Parent Company Financial Statements
We have audited the parent company ﬁ nancial statements of 
Chemring Group PLC for the year ended 31 October 2011 which 
comprise the Parent Company Balance Sheet, the Parent 
Company Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, the 
Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds and the 
related Notes 1 to 12. The ﬁ nancial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors 
and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, 
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent 
company ﬁ nancial statements and for being satisﬁ ed that they 
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the parent 
company ﬁ nancial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
(APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁ nancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the ﬁ nancial statements sufﬁ cient to give reasonable 
assurance that the ﬁ nancial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of signiﬁ cant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the ﬁ nancial statements.
In addition, we read all the ﬁ nancial and non-ﬁ nancial information 
in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited ﬁ nancial statements. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications in our report. 
Opinion on ﬁ nancial statements
In our opinion the parent company ﬁ nancial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the parent company’s 
affairs as at 31 October 2011;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁ nancial 
year for which the ﬁ nancial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the parent company ﬁ nancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report 
by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company ﬁ nancial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁ ed by law 
are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Other matters
We have reported separately on the Group ﬁ nancial statements of 
Chemring Group PLC for the year ended 31 October 2011.
Nigel Mercer ACA (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London, United Kingdom
24 January 2012 Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
96
Note £m
2011
£m £m
2010
£m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 2 0.9 0.8
Investments 3 571.2 515.6
572.1 516.4
Current assets
Debtors – due within one year 5 15.4 5.9
  – due after more than one year 5 272.0 246.9
Creditors due within one year 6 (133.1) (129.4)
Net current assets 154.3 123.4
Total assets less current liabilities 726.4 639.8
Creditors due after more than one year 7 (381.4) (417.1)
345.0 222.7
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 8 2.0 1.8
Reserves
Share premium account 9 230.6 120.4
Special capital reserve 9 12.9 12.9
Hedge reserve 9 - (1.5)
Proﬁ t and loss account 9 106.1 96.3
349.6 228.1
Own shares 10 (6.6) (7.2)
343.0 220.9
Shareholders’ funds 345.0 222.7
These ﬁ nancial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 24 January 2012.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Chemring Group PLC (registered number 86662)
D J Price   P A Rayner
Parent Company Balance Sheet (under UK GAAP)
as at 31 October 2011 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
97
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Parent Company Statement of 
Total Recognised Gains and Losses
for the year ended 31 October 2011
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Proﬁ t for the ﬁ nancial year 9 36.7 106.1
(Losses)/gains on cash ﬂ ow hedges (0.1) 0.6
Tax charge on items taken directly to reserves - (0.1)
Additional charge due to treasury shares (0.5) (0.6)
Total recognised gains and losses for the year 36.1 106.0
Reconciliation of Movements 
in Shareholders’ Funds
for the year ended 31 October 2011
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Proﬁ t for the ﬁ nancial year 36.7 106.1
Dividends (22.7) (18.7)
Proﬁ t for the year 14.0 87.4
Other recognised losses (0.6) (0.1)
Ordinary shares issued 8 0.2 -
Share premium arising 9 110.2 0.1
Share-based payments (net of deferred tax) (2.1) 0.1
Own shares 10 0.6 (2.0)
Net addition to shareholders’ funds 122.3 85.5
Opening shareholders’ funds 222.7 137.2
Closing shareholders’ funds 345.0 222.7
Proﬁ t attributable to shareholders
In accordance with the concession granted under the Companies Act 2006, section 408, the proﬁ t and loss account of Chemring Group PLC
has not been presented separately in these ﬁ nancial statements. There is no material difference between the results disclosed and the 
results on an unmodiﬁ ed historical cost basis.
Cash ﬂ ow statement
In accordance with the exemption under FRS 1 the Company’s cash ﬂ ow statement has not been presented separately in these 
ﬁ nancial statements. Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
98
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 October 2011
1. Chemring Group PLC accounting policies
The ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
applicable United Kingdom accounting standards. The particular 
accounting policies adopted have been applied consistently 
throughout the current and previous year and are described below.
Accounting convention
The ﬁ nancial statements are prepared under the historical 
cost convention, as modiﬁ ed by the revaluation of property, 
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable 
accounting standards (UK GAAP).
Related Parties
The Company is exempt under FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures 
from disclosing transactions with other members of the Group. 
Revenue recognition
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the 
principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, 
which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash 
receipts through the expected life of the ﬁ nancial asset to its net 
carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the 
shareholder’s rights to receive payment have been established.
Tangible ﬁ xed assets
Other than revalued land and buildings, property, plant and 
equipment are held at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
any recognised impairment loss. No depreciation is provided on 
freehold land. On other assets depreciation is provided at rates 
calculated to write down their cost or valuation to their estimated 
residual values by equal instalments over their estimated economic 
useful lives, which are considered to be:
Freehold buildings  – up to 50 years
Leasehold buildings  – the period of the lease
Plant and equipment – up to 10 years
Investment in Group undertakings
Investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment 
in value.
Operating leases
Operating lease rental charges are taken to the proﬁ t and loss 
account on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Provisions
A provision is recognised when the Company has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable 
that settlement will be required of an amount that can be reliably 
estimated. Long term liabilities and provisions are discounted when 
the impact is material.
Current tax
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is 
provided for at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using 
the tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantially 
enacted, by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided in full at the anticipated tax rates on 
differences arising from the inclusion of items of income and 
expenditure in tax computations in periods different from those in 
which they are included in the ﬁ nancial statements. Deferred tax 
is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation 
of ﬁ xed assets where there is no commitment to sell the asset. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Special capital reserve
The special capital reserve was created as part of a capital 
reduction scheme involving the cancellation of the share premium 
account which was approved by the Court in 1986, in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Foreign currencies
The functional currency of the Company is sterling. Transactions 
in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates ruling 
at the date of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the Balance Sheet date 
are translated at the rates ruling at that date. These translation 
differences are dealt with in the proﬁ t and loss account.
For a forward foreign exchange contract to be treated as a hedge 
the instrument must be related to actual foreign currency assets 
or liabilities or to a probable commitment. It must involve the same 
currency or similar currencies as the hedged item and must also 
reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the 
Company’s operations. Gains and losses arising on these contracts 
are deferred and recognised in the proﬁ t and loss account, or as 
adjustments to the carrying amount of ﬁ xed assets, only when 
the hedged transaction has itself been reﬂ ected in the Company’s 
ﬁ nancial statements.
For an interest rate swap to be treated as a hedge the instrument 
must be related to actual assets or liabilities or a probable 
commitment and must change the nature of the interest rate by 
converting a ﬁ xed rate to a variable rate or vice versa. Interest 
differentials under these swaps are recognised by adjusting new 
interest payable over the periods of the contracts.
If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, for 
example because the underlying hedged position is eliminated, 
the instrument is marked to market and any resulting proﬁ t or loss 
recognised at that time.
Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption, and 
direct issue costs are accounted for on an accruals basis to the 
proﬁ t and loss account using the effective interest method and are 
added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that 
they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Pensions
The Company operates a deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension scheme. The 
deﬁ ned beneﬁ t scheme is a multi-employer scheme including 
employees of other Group companies. It is not considered possible 
to allocate scheme assets and liabilities between the various 
companies and accordingly schemes are accounted for as though 
they were deﬁ ned contribution schemes. The amount charged to 
the proﬁ t and loss account is the contribution payable in the year. 
Differences between amounts payable and actually paid are shown 
as accruals or prepayments in the Balance Sheet.
The Company also operates a deﬁ ned contribution pension 
scheme. The amount charged to the proﬁ t and loss account in 
respect of pension costs and other post-retirement beneﬁ ts 
is the contributions payable in the year. Differences between 
contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid 
are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the Balance Sheet.
Share-based compensation
For grants made under the Company’s share-based incentive 
schemes, amounts which reﬂ ect the fair value of options awarded 
at the time of grant are charged to the proﬁ t and loss account. 
The valuation of the awards utilises a methodology based on the 
Black-Scholes model. Further details can be found within Note 3 of 
the Group ﬁ nancial statements. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
99
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
2. Tangible assets
Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and 
equipment
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 November 2010 0.4 1.3 1.7
Additions 0.1 0.3 0.4
Disposals - (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 October 2011 0.5 1.5 2.0
Depreciation
At 1 November 2010 0.1 0.8 0.9
Charge for the year - 0.3 0.3
Disposals - (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 October 2011 0.1 1.0 1.1
Net book value
At 31 October 2011 0.4 0.5 0.9
At 31 October 2010 0.3 0.5 0.8
The Company had no capital commitments as at 31 October 2011 (2010: nil).
Land and buildings represent leasehold improvements.
3. Investments
Shares in 
subsidiary 
undertakings
£m
Loans to 
subsidiary 
undertakings
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 November 2010 528.5 6.3 534.8
Capital contribution to subsidiary undertakings 56.1 - 56.1
Disposal (0.5) - (0.5)
At 31 October 2011 584.1 6.3 590.4
Provision for impairment
At 1 November 2010 and 31 October 2011 19.2 - 19.2
Net book value
At 31 October 2011 564.9 6.3 571.2
At 31 October 2010 509.3 6.3 515.6
During the year the Company wound up its captive insurance company, CHG Insurance Limited. The business distributed its assets to its 
parent, Chemring Group PLC. The distribution led to the investment being received and no gain or loss being incurred. CHG Insurance Limited 
ceased to provide insurance cover for the Group on 31 October 2010, and the Group has instead carried a self-insured deductible of 
£2.5 million on its material damage and business interruption insurance cover since that date.  Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
100
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 October 2011
4. Investments in Group undertakings
The trading subsidiary undertakings held at 31 October 2011 were: 
Trading subsidiary undertaking
Country of incorporation 
(or registration) 
and operation
% of issued ordinary 
share capital controlled 
by Chemring Group PLC Activity
Chemring Countermeasures Ltd England 100 Countermeasures 
Chemring Defence UK Ltd England 100 Counter-IED/Pyrotechnics
Chemring Marine Ltd England 100 Pyrotechnics
*Chemring EOD Ltd England 100 Counter-IED
Chemring Prime Contracts Ltd England 100 Munitions 
Roke Manor Research Ltd England 100 Counter-IED/Countermeasures
Chemring Energetics UK Ltd Scotland 100 Counter-IED/Pyrotechnics/Munitions
*Chemring Defence Germany GmbH Germany 100 Counter-IED/Pyrotechnics
*Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. USA 100 Countermeasures
*Kilgore Flares Company LLC USA 100 Countermeasures
*Technical Ordnance, Inc. USA 100 Pyrotechnics/Munitions
*Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. USA 100 Pyrotechnics/Munitions
*Chemring Ordnance, Inc. USA 100 Pyrotechnics/Munitions
*Chemring Military Products, Inc. USA 100 Munitions
*Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. USA 100 Counter-IED
*Hi-Shear Technology Corporation USA 100 Pyrotechnics
*Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. USA 100 Counter-IED
*Chemring Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100 Counter-IED/Countermeasures/ 
Pyrotechnics/Munitions
*Chemring Defence Spain S.L. Spain 100 Pyrotechnics
*Simmel Difesa S.p.A. Italy 100 Counter-IED/Pyrotechnics/Munitions
*Chemring Nobel AS Norway 100 Munitions
Mecar S.A. Belgium 100 Munitions
Associated undertaking
CIRRA S.A. France 49 Countermeasures
* Investments held by a subsidiary company
The directors consider that the carrying value of the investments does not exceed their fair value.
5. Debtors
Amounts due within one year:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Group relief receivable - 0.6
Deferred tax asset (see Note 11) 0.5 1.2
Other debtors 13.2 3.1
Prepayments and accrued income 1.7 1.0
15.4 5.9
Amounts due after more than one year: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 272.0 246.9
A ﬁ nancial instrument asset of £1.9 million (2010: £1.9 million) is recognised within other debtors in respect of the fair value of interest 
rate swaps (see Note 25 of the Group ﬁ nancial statements). The directors consider that the carrying value of the debtors approximates to 
their fair value.  Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
101
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
6. Creditors due within one year
2011
£m
2010
£m
Bank overdrafts 9.6 58.2
Bank loans 80.8 53.4
Trade creditors 1.2 1.6
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 30.9 5.1
Other creditors 2.8 1.8
Other tax and Social Security 0.3 0.7
Accruals and deferred income 7.5 8.6
133.1 129.4
A ﬁ nancial instrument liability of £1.2 million (2010: £1.6 million) is recognised in other creditors in respect of the fair value of derivative 
ﬁ nancial instruments (see Note 25 of the Group ﬁ nancial statements for further details).
In January 2011, the Group reﬁ nanced its bank facilities with a syndicate of ﬁ ve banks, extending the term of the facilities from April 2012 
to April 2015. This revolving credit facility provides access to committed lending and bonding line support. Further information on the 
borrowing facilities can be found in Note 22 of the Group ﬁ nancial statements.
7. Creditors due after more than one year
2011
£m
2010
£m
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments (see Note 25 of the Group ﬁ nancial statements) 4.4 7.3
Medium term loan - 26.6
Loan notes 260.3 261.2
Preference shares (62,500 shares of £1 each) 0.1 0.1
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 116.6 121.9
381.4 417.1
The cumulative preference shares carry an entitlement to a dividend at the rate of 7p per share per annum, payable in equal instalments 
on 30 April and 31 October each year. Holders of the preference shares have the right on winding-up to receive, in priority to any other 
classes of shares, the sum of £1 per share together with any arrears of dividends.
2011
£m
2010
£m
Borrowings falling due within:
One year 90.4 111.6
One to two years - 26.6
After ﬁ ve years 260.3 261.2
350.7 399.4
The interest incurred on the above borrowings is detailed within Note 22 of the Group ﬁ nancial statements. The overdraft and bank loans 
are denominated in sterling and Euro. 
8. Called-up share capital
2011
£m
2010
£m
Issued, allotted and fully paid
195,476,434 (2010: 177,943,255*) ordinary shares of 1p each 2.0 1.8
On 20 April 2011 the Company placed 17,405,183 new ordinary shares, representing an increase of £0.2 million in the ordinary share 
capital and £110.2 million in the share premium reserve after costs (see Note 13 of the Group ﬁ nancial statements). 
127,996 ordinary shares (2010: 14,095*) were issued under the Group’s savings-related share schemes during the year. 
The preference shares are presented as a liability (see Note 7) and accordingly are excluded from called-up share capital in the 
Balance Sheet.
Share-based incentive schemes
Full details of the schemes are disclosed in Note 32 of the Group ﬁ nancial statements.
* Restated ﬁ gures for prior year to reﬂ ect the subdivision of each 5p ordinary share into ﬁ ve 1p ordinary shares on 28 March 2011 Financial statements
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
102
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 October 2011
9. Reserves
Share premium 
account
£m
Special capital 
reserve
£m
Hedging reserve
£m
Proﬁ t and loss 
account
£m
Total
£m
At 1 November 2010 120.4 12.9 (1.5) 96.3 228.1
Ordinary shares issued 110.2--- 110.2
Proﬁ t for the year - - - 36.7 36.7
Dividends paid - - - (22.7) (22.7)
Other recognised losses - - - (0.6) (0.6)
Cost of share-based payments - - - (2.1) (2.1)
Transfers between reserves - - 1.5 (1.5) -
At 31 October 2011 230.6 12.9 - 106.1 349.6
The share premium account and special capital reserve are not distributable. Of the £106.1 million in the proﬁ t and loss account, 
£42.6 million is distributable, with the remaining £63.5 million arising from the disposal of the investment in Simmel Difesa S.p.A. not 
being distributable. 
The Company generated a proﬁ t for the ﬁ nancial year of £36.7 million (2010: £106.1 million). Dividends from subsidiary undertakings of 
£29.5 million (2010: £45.4 million) were received in the year.
The proposed ﬁ nal dividend in respect of the year ended 31 October 2011 of 10.8p per share will, if approved, absorb approximately 
£20.9 million of shareholders’ funds. The dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and accordingly 
has not been included as a liability in these ﬁ nancial statements. 
10. Own shares
2011
£m
2010
£m
Balance at 1 November 2010 7.2 5.2
Acquired in the year 1.5 3.9
Issued in the year to satisfy employee share awards (2.1) (1.9)
Balance at 31 October 2011 6.6 7.2
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Chemring Group PLC purchased in the market and held by the Group to satisfy 
awards under the Group’s share-based incentive schemes (see Note 32 of the Group ﬁ nancial statements). During the year 300,000 
(2010: 634,400*) ordinary shares were acquired, and 456,855 (2010: 500,055*) ordinary shares were distributed following the vesting 
of awards under the Chemring Group Performance Share Plan. The total number of ordinary shares held in treasury at 31 October 2011 
was 1,343,145 (2010: 1,500,000*) with an average rate of £4.81 (2010: £4.83*) per share. This represents 0.7% of the total issued and 
fully-paid ordinary share capital.
Since the year end, the Company has acquired an additional 1,000,000 ordinary shares, bringing the number of shares held in treasury 
at 23 January 2012 to 2,343,145, with an average cost of £4.50 per share. 
* Restated ﬁ gures for prior year to reﬂ ect the subdivision of each 5p ordinary share into ﬁ ve 1p ordinary shares on 28 March 2011
11. Deferred tax
2011
£m
2010
£m
Movements in deferred tax assets are as follows:
At 1 November 2010 (1.2) (1.4)
Charge to proﬁ t and loss account 0.7 0.2
At 31 October 2011 (0.5) (1.2)
The amount provided represents:
Other timing differences (0.5) (1.2) Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
103
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
12. Staff costs
2011
Number
2010
Number
The average monthly number of employees (including executive directors) was:
Total 38 34
2011
£m
2010
£m
The costs incurred in respect of these employees were:
Wages and salaries 3.4 3.3
Social security costs 0.4 0.4
Other pension costs 0.3 0.2
4.1 3.9
Disclosures in respect of directors’ emoluments can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 47 of the Group 
ﬁ nancial statements. Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
104 Other information
Find out more online
For more information about Chemring Group PLC, please visit 
www.chemring.co.uk where you can access the latest 
shareholder information:
• Current share price
• Key ﬁ nancial information
• Financial calendar
• Shareholder services and notices
• Corporate governance
• RSS news feeds
• Results and presentations
• Analysts’ forecasts
• Regulatory news
Chemring Group PLC’s Annual Report and Accounts 2011 can 
also be viewed online at www.chemring.co.uk/investors. 
You can also view and download the Notice for our 
Annual General Meeting.
Glossary and website
Glossary of terms
APOBS Anti-Personnel Obstacle Breaching System
EBITDA  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation
EOD Explosive ordnance disposal
EW Electronic warfare
GPR Ground penetrating radar
HMDS Husky Mounted Detection System
I3M ISTAR Information Integration and Management
IED Improvised explosive device
IM Insensitive munitions
IR Infra-red
ISTAR  Intelligence, Surveillance, Target Acquisition 
and Reconnaissance
JBPDS Joint Biological Point Detection System
JCAST Joint Combined Aircraft Systems Tester
JSF Joint Strike Fighter
JSLSCAD  Joint Service Lightweight Stand-off Chemical 
Agent Detector
LAV Light armoured vehicle
LOVA Low vulnerability ammunition
MANPADS Man-portable air-defence system
MJU Multi-Jettison Unit
NATO North Atlantic Treaty Organization
OCO Overseas Contingent Operations
OEM Original equipment manufacturer
OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Administration (US)
UAV Unmanned aerial vehicle Continued growth at NIITEK
NIITEK increased revenue by 24% to 
£126.9 million, driven by high level of 
demand for spares and support for the 
200+ HMDS systems in service with the 
US and Canadian Armies. In addition, 
77 HMDS systems were delivered to the 
US Army.
For more information see page 6
Growth in non-NATO countries
Sales to non-NATO countries grew by 
81% in 2011 and now represent 29% of 
the Group revenues. We believe that our 
non-NATO business will grow to 40% 
of Group revenues, driven by economic 
growth and modernisation programmes 
in the Middle East, Far East and 
South America.
For more information see page 6
Acquisition of Chemring 
Detection Systems
In July 2011, the Group completed the 
acquisition of the Detection Systems 
operations of General Dynamics 
Armament and Technical Products. 
This acquisition brings a leading US 
capability in chemical and biological 
threat detection systems.
For more information see page 8
© Chemring Group PLC 2012
The information in this document is the property of Chemring Group PLC and may not be copied or communicated to a third party
or used for any purpose other than that for which it is supplied without the express written consent of Chemring Group PLC.
This information is given in good faith based upon the latest information available to Chemring Group PLC; no warranty or 
representation is given concerning such information, which must not be taken as establishing any contractual or other commitment 
binding upon Chemring Group PLC or any of its subsidiary or associated companies.
Printed on FSC certiﬁ ed Chorus Lux Silk; a paper bleached using a chlorine free process. 100% of the inks 
used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of 
any waste associated with this production will be recycled. The printer is an EMAS certiﬁ ed CarbonNeutral® 
Company and its Environmental Management System is certiﬁ ed to ISO14001.
A world-leading defence company
Chemring is a global group that specialises in the 
manufacture of energetic material products and 
countermeasures. We provide solutions for highly 
demanding customer requirements in defence, 
security and safety markets. We are a world-leading 
defence company involved in advanced development 
programmes in the UK, USA, Europe and Australia.
With strong growth in threat detection systems, 
electronics now represents 40% of our revenues. 
Our long-term strategy is to maintain a balance between 
high technology electronics and energetic products.
Highlights
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
105
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information www.chemring.co.uk
Chemring Group PLC
Chemring House
1500 Parkway
Whiteley
Fareham
Hampshire PO15 7AF
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0)1489 881880
Email: info@chemring.co.uk
Chemring Group PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chemring Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Identifying growth in new markets 
