 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
CHEMRING GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 
AND ACCOUNTS
for the year ended 31 October 2013
CHEMRING GROUP PLC ❘ ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS for the year ended 31 October 2013 Stock Code: CHG
Delivering 
g lobal 
Protection 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
CHEMRING GROUP
A wORLD–LEADING 
DEf ENCE COMPANy
Chemring is a global business that specialises in the 
manufacture of high technology products. We operate in four 
strategic product segments: Countermeasures, Sensors & 
Electronics, Pyrotechnics & Munitions, and Energetic  
Sub–Systems, and deliver high reliability solutions to protect 
people, platforms, missions and information against constantly 
changing threats. With production facilities in seven countries, 
we meet specific customer requirements in defence and security 
markets in more than sixty countries worldwide.
CHEMRING’S kEy STRENGTHS
Market leading positions in a number of core markets
 — Chemring is a world leader in the countermeasure, IED detection and naval ammunition markets.
Excellent technology and broad product range
 — Leading developer of portable EW and new IED detectors.
 — Advanced flares for next generation aircraft including F–35 and Typhoon.
Significant new market opportunities
 — International reach to growing non–NATO defence markets.
 — Growing opportunities in security, cyber protection and non–defence markets.
knowledgeable and talented employees
 — Extensive pool of employees who continue to lead technology development in their fields.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Contents
Overview
Chairman’s statement 02
Chemring’s business model 08
Strategy 10
Global growth opportunities 12
Market review 14
 
Performance review
Business highlights 16
Segmental review  18
Countermeasures 18
Sensors & Electronics  20
Pyrotechnics & Munitions 22
Energetic Sub–Systems 24
CEO questions and answers 26
Financial review 28
Key performance indicators 33
Principal risks and uncertainties 36
Corporate responsibility review 41
Governance
Board of directors 48
Directors’ report  50
Corporate governance report 54
Directors' remuneration report 64
Financial statements
Independent auditor's report to the 
members of Chemring Group PLC 88
Consolidated income statement 94
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income 95
Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity 96
Consolidated balance sheet 97
Consolidated cash flow statement 98
Notes to the group 
financial statements 99
Parent company balance sheet 143
Parent company statement of 
total recognised gains and losses 144
Parent company reconciliation of 
movements in shareholders’ funds 144
Notes to the parent company 
financial statements 145
Other information
Corporate information and website 152
Strategic report
Visit us online at 
www.chemring.co.uk
Get investor information on the 
move with our iPad App.
Chairman’s statement
Find out Peter Hickson's view on 
Chemring's performance in 2013.
CEO questions and answers
Mark Papworth's thoughts on his first year 
as Chief Executive Officer.
Segmental review
Review of the operational performance of 
the business.
Strategy
Market environment, competitive 
dynamics and future prospects for each of 
Chemring's business segments.
Pictured:
Anti–Personnel Obstacle Breaching  
Systems (APOBS).
Pictured:
Chemring was a contributor to the successful 
landing of the NASA Mars Science Laboratory 
Curiosity Rover
01
www.chemring.co.uk
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Chairman’s statement
 
At the end of a year of 
significant change, Chemring is 
now a more resilient business, 
with a clear strategic direction. 
Much has been achieved by the 
new management team during 
the year, with the positive 
impact of the Performance 
Recovery Programme beginning 
to bear fruit. In addition, the 
Strategic Planning Process has 
provided a clear view of the 
market, competitive dynamics 
and prospects for each of the 
businesses, as well as identifying 
the core markets in which the 
Group will focus investment. 
Defence markets have remained challenging, and operational 
issues in certain businesses further impacted the Group's 
financial performance. In addition, the US Government 
shutdown in the last month of the financial year meant that 
government inspectors were not present in a number of 
the Group's facilities, thus delaying product acceptance and 
shipment in October 2013.
Performance Recovery Programme
In January 2013, the new management team established 
a Performance Recovery Programme focused on delivering 
improvements in operational performance and providing 
increased resilience to challenging markets. This led to a 
reorganisation of the Group to ensure swift and effective 
response to attractive market opportunities. The cost of 
this reorganisation and restructuring will be approximately 
£15.0 million, which has predominantly arisen in the year 
ended 31 October 2013, and will deliver annual savings of 
approximately £10.0 million from 2014.
The Performance Recovery Programme had five initial areas 
of focus:
• Simplify the organisational structure.
• Integrate compatible business units and deliver untapped 
synergies.
• Implement a systematic programme of operational 
performance improvement.
• Refocus business development activity. 
• Improve cash and cost management. 
Chemring’s previous organisational structure included 
significant divisional overhead, and this has been eliminated. 
Head office and divisional functions have been integrated into 
a single, tighter central management structure, resulting in 
a 46% reduction in head office and divisional headcount. The 
operating businesses have also been reorganised to provide a 
more effective reporting structure consisting of four strategic 
product segments: Countermeasures, Sensors & Electronics, 
Pyrotechnics & Munitions, and Energetic Sub–Systems.
Operational efficiency is improving, but it will take time to 
resolve all of the Group's operational issues. Clearer reporting 
lines and more rapid communication with the Group’s senior 
management are delivering improved focus, accountability 
and responsiveness. Crucially, customers are also benefiting 
from this streamlined organisation through a more  
co–ordinated approach to the Group's markets, product 
portfolio, quality and technology development.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
02 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Strategic Planning Process
The Group has undertaken a comprehensive Strategic 
Planning Process to determine its business strategy. This has 
provided a clear view for each of Chemring’s business units 
of their current market environment, competitive dynamics 
and future prospects. It has confirmed strong market–leading 
positions and the strength of the Group's technology in 
a number of areas, whilst highlighting new defence and 
adjacent non–defence opportunities. It has also identified a 
number of further operational initiatives which will enable the 
Group to manage the impact of current market challenges.
As a result of this process, a number of business units have 
been identified as not being part of Chemring's longer–term 
strategy. As a consequence, several divestment processes 
are now under way, the outcome of which should lead to a 
reduction in the Group's debt. 
The first of these divestments was in December 2013, with 
a conditional agreement for the sale of Chemring Energetic 
Devices' build–to–print business located in Clear Lake, South 
Dakota to AMTEC Corporation for $10.0 million (£6.1 million), 
payable in cash. Completion of the sale, which is conditional 
upon regulatory approvals and subject to a working capital 
adjustment, is expected within the next few weeks.
Trading 
Chemring’s improving operational performance has been 
adversely affected by the deteriorating external trading 
environment, largely as a result of budgetary pressures on 
global defence spending, which has manifested in delays in 
order placement in all our markets.
In particular, the US has seen a significant deterioration 
in defence spending due to the effects of sequestration, 
continuing resolution and budget reductions. This was 
heightened by the shutdown of the US Government in 
early October 2013, a key month in the Group's delivery 
schedule. The shutdown resulted in the temporary closure 
of the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA), the 
government agency with responsibility for inspecting and 
approving products for delivery to the US Department of 
Defense. This closure impacted deliveries to customers in the 
last weeks of the financial year but these delays are expected 
to be resolved in the first quarter of the current financial year. 
Consequently, Group revenue for 2013 was £624.9 million, a 
decrease of 15.6%, generating an underlying operating profit 
of £72.1 million (2012: £88.3 million). Underlying profit 
before tax reduced by 25.2% to £52.4 million, resulting in 
underlying earnings per share of 21.6p (2012: 28.5p). 
Order intake for the Group was £534.5 million, 14.5% below 
revenue. As a result, the closing order book was  
£675.5 million (2012: £760.9 million), a reduction of 11.2%. 
The closing order book is lower than the value of £702 million 
disclosed in the Group's trading update published on  
25 November 2013, due to exchange rate fluctuations 
impacting the valuation of certain orders.
Board of directors
A number of changes were made to the Board of directors 
during the year. Mark Papworth joined as Chief Executive 
on 5 November 2012, followed by Steve Bowers as Finance 
Director on 7 January 2013. 
Nigel Young, who was Interim Chief Financial Officer between 
August 2012 and January 2013, became a non–executive 
director and Chairman of the Audit Committee on  
1 May 2013. Andy Hamment, who was previously Group 
Marketing Director of Ultra Electronics plc, joined the Board 
as a non–executive director on 1 July 2013. Two  
non–executive directors retired from the Board during the 
year: Peter Norriss, who had been a director since May 2004, 
stepped down at the Annual General Meeting in March 2013, 
and Roger Freeman, who had been a director since  
May 2006, retired from the Board on 31 December 2013. 
The Board is most grateful to both for their valuable 
contributions over many years.
These changes mean that Chemring has created a 
substantially new Board in the last two years. This fresh 
perspective will be important in meeting the challenges and 
opportunities facing the Group.
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend for the year of 
3.8p (2012: 4.2p). With the interim dividend of 3.4p  
(2012: 5.3p), paid in August 2013, this results in a total 
dividend in respect of 2013 of 7.2p (2012: 9.5p). This 
total dividend is in line with the Group’s stated policy of 
maintaining a dividend that is covered three times by 
underlying earnings.
03
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Chairman’s statement
Outlook
Real progress has been made in transforming Chemring and 
the Performance Recovery Programme is eliminating a number 
of the issues that have dragged down recent performance. The 
benefits of the programme will come through in 2014 and the 
Group is better placed as a result. 
While sequestration of the US defence budget has been 
avoided, the difficult market conditions that Chemring 
experienced in 2013 are expected to continue throughout 
2014 and represent the most significant challenge that 
the Group currently faces. Growth in emerging markets is 
expected to be offset by defence spending constraints in the 
US, UK and Europe, and a recovery in the Group's traditional 
NATO markets is not expected in the medium term. The 
current strength of sterling against the US dollar, if sustained, 
will also impact earnings given the significance of the Group's 
US operations.
Chemring will continue to drive improvements in operational 
performance, and pursue the growth opportunities that 
exist, particularly within non–NATO markets where defence 
spending is expected to increase. It will also reshape and 
strengthen its portfolio of businesses through the disposal 
of non–core activities and technology investment in those 
businesses that can achieve sustainable growth and margin 
improvement. Meanwhile, the Board's expectations for the 
current financial year remain unchanged.
Peter Hickson 
Chairman 
23 January 2014
Underlying measures referred to in these financial statements are stated before costs 
relating to acquisitions and disposals, business restructuring and incident costs, profit on 
disposal of businesses, items deemed to be of an exceptional nature, impairment of goodwill 
and acquired intangibles, impairment of assets held for sale, amortisation of acquired 
intangibles and gains/losses on the movement in the fair value of derivative financial 
instruments. A reconciliation of underlying and total operating profit is set out in note 5 of 
the group financial statements.
Pictured right:
RESOLVE integrated tactical electronic warfare system.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
04 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
05
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
MOvING  
INTO NEw  
TERRITORIES
CASe Study
HUSky MOUNTED DETECTION S ySTEM (HMDS)
t he Husky Mounted detection System 
(HMdS) is a combat proven,  
high–performance ground penetrating 
radar (GPR) system, which operates on 
manned and unmanned blast–resistant 
vehicles that provide rapid ability to 
detect landmines and other explosive 
hazards, such as improvised explosive 
devices (Ieds), on main supply routes 
and open areas. Originally funded 
to satisfy an urgent operational 
requirement in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
the HMdS is now in use with the uS, 
Canadian, Australian and Spanish 
militaries. t he system’s success has 
resulted in it being recognised as a 
critical requirement in the protection 
of troops, and there is significant 
interest in the system from other NAt O 
countries.
t here were over 250 HMdSs in use in 
Afghanistan, and in the uS the system 
is now in the process of transitioning 
to become a baseline item in the uS 
department of defense budget. In 
October 2013, Chemring Sensors 
& electronic Systems was awarded 
a $10.6 million contract by the uS 
Army for the procurement of six 
HMdS test units, and a test support 
package. t hese systems will be used 
for advanced testing in preparation for 
a long–term procurement programme. 
t his secures the position of the HMdS 
as an enduring capability for the uS 
military over the next ten to fifteen 
years. 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
See more information online 
www.chemring.co.uk
Strategic 
report
Overview
Chemring’s business model 08
Strategy 10
Global growth opportunities 12
Market review 14
Performance review
Business highlights 16
Segmental review  18
Countermeasures 18
Sensors & Electronics  20
Pyrotechnics & Munitions 22
Energetic Sub–Systems 24
CEO questions and answers 26
Financial review 28
Key performance indicators 33
Principal risks and uncertainties 36
Corporate responsibility review 41
Pictured left:
Husky HMDS checks a road for mines and IEDs in Afghanistan. 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Chemring’s business model
Chemring creates value by developing and manufacturing protection 
solutions for the defence and security markets based on threat 
detection, countermeasures and energetic material products.
Sensors & Electronics
Chemring’s sensor and electronics products include 
the world’s leading vehicle–mounted system for 
detecting IEDs, as well as core technologies for 
electronic warfare, and detecting, intercepting 
and jamming communications, including 
radio–controlled IEDs. The Group is 
exploiting its network protection 
capabilities to defend against the 
growing threat of cyber-attacks.
Energetic 
Sub–Systems
Chemring’s energetic sub–systems are 
safety–critical components of missiles, aircraft 
and space launch systems. Operators and prime 
contractors depend on Chemring’s very high reliability,
single–use devices to perform key functions, including
satellite deployment, aircrew egress and missile
self–destruct.
Countermeasures
Chemring is well established as the world’s leading 
manufacturer of expendable decoys to protect aircraft 
and ships from the growing threat of guided missiles.
The Group’s ﬂares have been proven in peace–keeping 
operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the business
continues to develop naval decoy technology 
in response to emerging anti–ship 
missile threats.
Pyrotechnics &
Munitions
Chemring manufactures a range of 
pyrotechnic products which are used by 
militaries and security forces around the world for 
screening, signalling and illumination. In addition, the Group
produces a specialist range of medium and 
large–calibre ammunition for tanks, armoured 
vehicles, infantrymen and naval platforms.
See page 11 for strategic focus
See page 24 and 25 for segmental review
See page 10 for strategic focus
See page 18 and 19 for segmental review
See page 11 for strategic focus
See page 22 and 23 for segmental review
See page 10 for strategic focus
See page 20 and 21 for segmental review
1
TRACK AND
IDENTIFY
THREATS
2
LEVERAGE 
INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY
3
COMMERCIALISE
KNOW-HOW
4
EXTEND
REACH
 
Countermeasures Sensors & electronics
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
08 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
1 TRACk AND IDENTIfy THREATS
Chemring delivers protection solutions in a world facing 
rapidly–evolving threats from both organised militaries and 
the growing base of insurgents. Tracking and identifying 
threats and understanding their implications are critical  
precursors to detecting and countering these threats. The 
Group has strong, long–standing customer relationships 
around the world, which provide insight into a unique mix 
of military doctrines and security challenges faced by 
NATO, non–NATO and other security forces. The “home” 
markets in the US, UK, Europe and Australia provide a base 
of sophisticated and influential users, whilst a network of 
relationships in the Middle East, Asia Pacific and South 
America provide insight into specific security challenges, 
ranging from the Olympic Games to protecting offshore 
assets from pirates or insurgents. Chemring monitors the 
evolving pattern of threats, and this provides the base for 
exploring technology options to address these threats.
2  LEvERAGE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTy
Chemring has a strong portfolio of technology which it 
draws upon to develop solutions for customers. The Group 
strategically invests “seedcorn” capital to investigate 
technical alternatives and to secure critical intellectual 
property underpinning potential solutions. Where promising 
technologies are found outside the Group, a flexible approach 
is adopted to securing this for the targeted application - for 
example, by securing licences, funding joint development, or 
in some cases, outright acquisition of a company to secure 
both the technology and the underlying ability to develop 
it. Having secured the critical intellectual property, the 
Group takes a pragmatic approach to product design and 
development. In the case of specialist military products such 
as IED detectors, countermeasures or missile components, 
where the user’s specialist operational, qualification and test 
requirements place a disproportionate cost on development 
programmes, customer funding, support and qualification 
is sought to develop specific solutions. For example, our 
countermeasures products require significant investment 
in flight qualification, and the business work closely with 
a lead customer in the US or Europe to prove the product. 
Where military qualification costs are less prohibitive and 
their applications are wider than a single customer’s unique 
requirements, the Group invests its own development funding 
to secure a more versatile solution which can be sold more 
widely - for example, funding network protection offerings to 
ensure the Group can fully exploit the commercial market for 
these solutions.
3 COMMERCIALISE kNOw–HOw
Chemring is a manufacturing business, and we maintain a 
high margin portfolio by producing and selling proprietary 
products. This means that the Group optimises its 
manufacturing capability to protect our technology, product 
and process–related intellectual property. Energetic material 
products, including countermeasures, energetic sub–systems, 
pyrotechnics and munitions, all involve the blending, forming 
and packing of energetic materials. Rigour in these processes 
is critical to ensure product quality and performance, and 
the Group uses its world–leading capabilities in this field 
to perform the majority of this in–house at its large and 
well–equipped sites. For less critical production processes, 
such as metal part manufacture, component production 
may be outsourced. For sensors and electronics products, 
the critical processes are associated with assembly, test and 
software - the Group ensures that its production and delivery 
capabilities in these processes meet our production needs. In 
some cases, the Group exploits its knowledge by undertaking 
contract research and development for clients, where this 
provides an opportunity to extend the knowledge base, 
understand new opportunities and operational scenarios, or 
build new customer relationships.
4  EX TEND REA CH
Chemring sells to over sixty countries globally through an 
established network of sales partners. These partners have 
strong in–country relationships with national procurement 
offices, and these channels are used in promoting Chemring’s 
full range of products, technologies, capabilities and 
solutions. These partners are critical to the launch of the 
Group's new products into their markets, and also provide 
local intelligence and product support.
Defence is a sensitive capability for all countries, and many 
aim to develop a local industrial base to support their 
national security. This is particularly true in consumables 
such as countermeasures, where the ability of a supply 
chain to support military operations is key - the Group's US 
and UK–based flare manufacturing capabilities were critical 
to support operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, and many 
nations are seeking to be self–sufficient in their own supply 
chain. The Group will work with nations who wish to develop 
indigenous capability, and will support product development 
and manufacturing facilities. For example, Chemring Australia 
has established a development programme in Australia, 
in collaboration with Chemring Technology Solutions, to 
develop a next–generation enhancement to man–portable 
electronic warfare equipment. Similarly, Mecar has signed 
an agreement to transfer technology for tank ammunition 
manufacture to a partner in Brazil, to enable it to meet 
national requirements locally - in this case, Mecar will control 
proprietary technologies through the long–term supply of 
critical components to its partner.
Pictured left:
F15 dispensing flares.
Pictured far left:
HMDS is currently operational in Afghanistan.
09
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Strategy
The Group's vision is to be:
The leading developer and manufacturer of advanced 
detection and countermeasure technologies to defeat 
threats from radio frequency and network–based electronic 
warfare, IEDs, chemical and biological agents, and guided 
missiles.
The Group's strategy is to reposition itself for growth 
through the innovation and exploitation of intellectual 
property. This will focus on Chemring's core competancies, 
directing investment into those lines of business which have 
technologies, products and market positioning that provide 
the greatest opportunity to achieve sustainable high margins 
and revenue growth.
Historically, Chemring has adopted a strategy and structure 
focused on being able to respond quickly to urgent 
requirements in rapidly changing operational scenarios. 
This approach supported a regional divisional structure, and 
strong local investment in facilities, equipment and research 
and development. As current NATO operations draw to a 
close, Chemring has refocused its strategy on  
highly–targeted investment across the portfolio, delivering 
structural efficiencies and improving operational 
performance.
Targeted investment 
The first element of Chemring's strategy is to manage the 
Group businesses as a portfolio, based on a rational and 
objective analysis of their markets, and their competitive 
position within those markets. The summary of this analysis is 
shown below with clear priorities for each segment.
Strong
Chemring 
competitive 
position
Weak
Shrinking Market 
attractiveness
Growing
Countermeasures
Sensors & 
Electronics
Pyrotechnics 
& Munitions
Energetic 
Sub-Systems
Maintain world leadership in countermeasures 
market
Chemring has a clear lead in expendable decoys, as a result 
of its customer relationships and manufacturing facilities in 
its core markets of the US, UK and Australia, combined with 
advanced technologies in flare, radio frequency and special 
material decoys. In the face of reduced short–term demand, 
the Group is integrating Alloy Surfaces and Kilgore Flares to 
form Chemring Countermeasures USA, in order to reduce 
costs and raise efficiency levels.
The three strategic priorities for the Countermeasures 
segment are:
• Complete the integration of Chemring Countermeasures 
USA. The integration of Alloy Surfaces and Kilgore Flares 
has already reduced the overhead base and enabled 
sharing of operational best practice to position Chemring 
Countermeasures USA for profitable growth as new 
platforms enter service.
• Maintain a technological lead in core markets. Customers in 
these markets are the most advanced in the world, and the 
Group will promote targeted customer–funded development 
projects to maintain national capabilities to support future 
military operations.
• Optimise the Group's manufacturing base and routes to 
market. Current manufacturing capacity is scaled to meet 
surge levels of demand. This capacity and its utilisation 
will be optimised to ensure a flexible, efficient and safe 
manufacturing base to meet customer requirements.
Build a world–leading technology base in 
Sensors & Electronics
Chemring has world–leading technologies in chemical, 
biological and IED threat detection, electronic warfare and 
cyber protection. The Group will invest to extend this portfolio 
of Sensors & Electronics technology. The key priorities are:
• Ensure critical wins in the US defence market. The US 
market is the world’s largest and the Group will continue to 
invest to secure its position and win key programmes.
• Build a world–leading technology base across the Group's 
transatlantic footprint. Chemring's technical centres in 
the US and UK are well–recognised nationally but do not 
fully exploit the scale and synergies of its international 
operations. Chemring will build on existing customer 
relationships to anticipate user needs and capitalise on 
its global capability, growing the Group's technology base 
through targeted investment.
• Leverage Chemring's proven skills and reputation to expand 
into adjacent areas, for example cyber protection.
• Incubate technologies for non–defence markets.
• Complete the integration of Chemring Detection Systems 
and NIITEK in the US into a single organisation, Chemring 
Sensors & Electronic Systems, to leverage technology 
capabilities, co–ordinate customer interactions and 
maximise supply chain efficiencies.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
10 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Optimse operational performance of 
Pyrotechnics & Munitions
Military pyrotechnics and ammunition are used in both 
training and active operations. The global market for these 
products has been heavily impacted by the decline in NATO 
operations in Afghanistan, leaving many forces' stockpiles 
full and a target for short–term cuts. The Group's strategic 
priorities for this segment are:
• Establish operational excellence in pyrotechnics. 
Chemring's pyrotechnic portfolio includes many products 
which are infrequently produced, which causes complexity 
and impacts margins. The Group will rationalise this product 
range and continue to improve production efficiency.
• Maintain the leading position in large and medium–calibre 
ammunition niches. Chemring has a strong position in naval 
and light armoured vehicle ammunition, and will maintain 
the technologies and relationships which underpin this. 
The Group will also manage workload across its sites to 
reduce manufacturing bottlenecks and maximise capacity 
utilisation.
f ocus on performance improvement and  
near–term market opportunities in Energetic 
Sub–Systems
Chemring's Energetic Sub–Systems segment is complex, 
with a wide variety of products produced infrequently in 
batch production runs. The market is stable, with significant 
qualification costs and other barriers to entry, and the 
segment therefore has the potential to improve margins. 
However, recent operational challenges have impacted 
performance. The key priorities for Energetic Sub–Systems 
are:
• Complete the integration of Hi–Shear with Chemring 
Energetic Devices, in order to exploit Hi–Shear’s strong 
market position on key programmes such as the PAC–3 
missile and the NASA Standard Initiatior, whilst eliminating 
manufacturing bottlenecks by distributing work between 
sites. The integration will also deliver benefits from sharing 
best practices, systems and marketing resources.
• Explore non–defence opportunities in civil aerospace, space 
and other markets.
Deliver structural efficiencies
In 2013, a review of the Group’s divisional structure was 
completed. This highlighted that the organisational structure 
was more focussed on local agility than efficiency, and also 
risked creating some confusion in the market–place, as 
similar business units in the US and Europe sought export 
opportunities outside their home markets. As a result, the 
Group’s operational structure has been reconfigured along 
product and technology lines to eliminate regional divisional 
entities, and the integration of several key business units has 
been completed.
Improve operational performance
The restructuring has reduced the Group’s overheads, and 
has facilitated both national and transatlantic synergies. 
However, several businesses have a poor track record of 
delivery on time or to cost and quality. This has driven a 
highly–focused thrust on manufacturing and operational 
performance improvement throughout the Group, but 
with specific focus on certain businesses. Actions include 
improvements to financial systems, changing operational 
management, redistribution of work between sites and 
elimination of manufacturing bottlenecks. This will continue 
within the segments, where grouping similar businesses 
together will better enable sharing of best practices,  
co–ordinated marketing strategies and establishment of  
centres–of–excellence.
11
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Global growth opportunities
AREAS Of OPERATION AND POTENTIAL GRO wTH
“With a footprint in the USA, Europe and Australia, Chemring is established in the  
world’s largest defence markets — the Group is well positioned to move into fast–growing  
markets in the Middle East, Asia Pacific and South America.”
NORtH AMeRICA
Market overview
• Declining budget but reduced uncertainties 
following recent Bipartisan Budget Act
• Maintenance of key programmes 
including Joint Strike Fighter (“JSF”)
• Transition from urgent operational 
requirements to core Programs of Record
Chemring’s position
• Strong position on HMDS as it transitions 
to become a Program of Record
• Well positioned to capitalise on 
pre-emptive countermeasure technology 
and growth in JSF fleet
• Further opportunities in Sensors & 
Electronics
Regional defence 
spend*
$664bn
SOutH AMeRICA
Market overview
• Growing regional defence and security 
spend
• Brazil is economically and strategically 
dominant in the region
Chemring’s position
• Well-positioned for cyber security 
opportunity with regional partner
• Partnership on large–calibre ammunition
Regional defence  
spend*
$69bn
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
12 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
ASIA PACIFIC
Market overview
• Growing defence spend driven by economic 
growth
• China’s economic growth and strategic 
aspirations driving increased focus and 
investment by US and its allies
Chemring’s position
• Chemring Australia well-positioned in 
southern hemisphere
• Building presence in India
• Major opportunities in countermeasures, 
missiles, radar and ammunition 
development programmes
Regional defence 
spend*
$212bn
MIddLe eAS t & NOR tH AFRICA
Market overview
• Growing defence spend driven by regional 
tensions and economic growth
• Saudi Arabia maintaining its position as 
strategic and economic hub for the region
Chemring’s position
• Leading position to win countermeasure 
opportunities for large combat aircraft 
fleets
• UK support for cyber security collaboration
• Major coastal defence opportunity
Regional defence 
spend*
$142bn
wHeRe we OPeRA te
GROwtH PO teNtIAL
key t O MAP
euROPe
Market overview
• Declining defence spend
• Several national strategic defence reviews
• Pockets of growth in newer NATO countries
Chemring’s position
• Well positioned for key IED detection and 
electronic warfare opportunities
• Supplier of choice for traditional and 
advanced countermeasures
• Growing interest in CENTURION naval 
launcher
Regional defence 
spend*
$280bn
* Source: The Military Balance 2013 (excludes Iran, Syria, North Korea, Russia and China)
13
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Market review
The global defence market is dominated by US and European 
budget reductions which overwhelm growth in Asia Pacific, 
the Middle East and South America
Chemring’s business is driven by national defence 
departments which are either its immediate customers or 
the end–users of products incorporating its components. 
The global defence market has suffered several years of 
decline since its peak in 2010 and this macro trend is likely 
to continue until 2015 before it begins to recover. There are 
at least two coincident drivers for this. The first is that the 
US and NATO are winding down their military presence and 
combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, which at their 
peak intensity drove US Overseas Contingency Operations 
(“OCO”) spending of more than $150 billion per year over 
and above the baseline US defence budget. The second is the 
financial crisis, which has forced debt–laden governments 
to take vigorous measures across all departments to reduce 
their deficits. Most countries appear to have completed their 
most draconian cuts but many have revised the long–term 
view of their strategic military ambition and are proposing a 
permanently smaller force structure to support this.
United States
The US represents 40% of the world’s defence spend and 
its rapid decline since 2010 dominates the overall market 
trajectory. With a decline in military operations, OCO 
funding has halved since 2010. This downward trend has 
been exacerbated by Washington's fractured politics which 
have crippled budget processes. The US Government’s 
FY13 budget has been sequestered down by 10% from the 
departments’ original requests. This had a direct impact 
on Chemring’s performance in 2013, when the furlough 
of government officials in October impacted the ability of 
the Group's US businesses to ship products, causing some 
deliveries to slip beyond the year end. The recently hailed 
Bipartisan Budget Act, announced in December 2013, 
partially alleviates the sequester but total budgeted spend for 
2014 will be down on the current year.
Uk and Europe
The UK and Europe have also cut their budgets since the 
2010 peak and these cuts will continue, with 2017 levels as 
much as 5% down on 2012 levels. Defence spending in Europe 
is well below the NATO commitment of 2% of GDP, and the top 
spending countries in Europe (UK, France, Germany and Italy) 
are reducing spend and all have conducted major reviews 
of future force requirements, scaling back both strategic 
ambition and required force structure. Turkey and Poland 
are the only major players in NATO which are increasing 
their spend, as they upgrade older equipment to modern 
standards.
Middle East and North Africa
This region continues to face instabilities, ranging from the 
systemic Arab–Israeli tensions to the extended civil war in 
Syria, unrest in Egypt, and Iran’s uncertain position on its 
nuclear programme. Saudi Arabia is the largest defence 
player in the region, and its oil–driven economic growth, 
combined with aspirations to remain the local force of 
stability and peace, mean that it is likely to continue to grow 
its spend.
Asia Pacific
This region has enjoyed strong economic growth, enabling 
increased funding to support national capability upgrades 
throughout the region. China is not an accessible market but 
its accelerating defence spending and increasingly aggressive 
posture have driven a major shift in US regional focus, as well 
as encouraging other fast–growing economies in the region to 
accelerate their own spend. India, in particular, is modernising 
its defence capabilities, although faltering economic growth 
and a declining rupee have eroded real growth. The country 
still imports approximately 65% of its military equipment 
requirements, and the currency decline has therefore had a 
particularly pernicious effect on its buying power. Its policy of 
“make / buy Indian” aims to address this but has so far failed 
to transform the local defence industrial base.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
14 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
South America
South America is dominated by Brazil, and its recent 
economic slowdown has reduced its ability to maintain the 
defence spending growth rates seen recently. Brazil’s regional 
economic dominance means that its defence requirements 
are more driven by security challenges than in deterring a 
traditional full scale military attack by a neighbour. Two key 
programmes are SISFRON, an integrated border monitoring 
system, and SISGAAS, to secure the Amazon. In addition, 
Brazil has established CDCiber to build a capability to protect 
state IT systems from cyber–attacks.
Impact on Chemring segments
For Chemring, national defence budgets are an important 
environmental backdrop but they only form part of the 
picture. The Group's four strategic product business segments 
operate with different drivers across defence markets. In 
addition, the Group is actively seeking to grow its presence in 
other markets where it is already establishing a foothold.
Countermeasures
It is believed that the countermeasures market is close to 
customers’ minimum sustaining rates of production, from 
which the industrial base still has the capability to respond to 
surge demand from extended military operations. The Group 
expects the market to slowly recover from these levels over 
the next few years, driven by exports and new platforms’ 
achievement 
of full operational capability. There has been some relaxation 
of export restrictions on advanced countermeasure 
technologies, and it is expected that some new customers will 
add these to their inventory of decoys. In addition, the fleet  
build–up and achievement of full operational capability for 
the Joint Strike Fighter and Typhoon will drive a need for 
significant war stocks of the unique decoys required for 
each of these platforms. In addition, the recent successful 
demonstration firings of the CENTURION launcher and the 
interest they have inspired suggest that there is real potential 
for the system, which should also reinvigorate a flat naval 
countermeasures market. 
Sensors & Electronics
Chemring’s Sensors & Electronics products are  
innovation–led, frequently developed in response to Urgent 
Operational Requirements (“UORs”). Whilst the operational 
tempo has reduced, recent conflicts have demonstrated the 
vulnerability of modern forces against asymmetric threats. 
As a result, counter–IED doctrine is becoming a key element 
of defence thinking and the equipment is migrating into 
core defence budgets, to establish a sustained capability for 
future operations. The HMDS is the most important example 
of this for Chemring but the Group’s electronic warfare and 
electronic countermeasures products are other candidates. 
The Sensors & Electronics segment also has capabilities 
in fast–growing government and commercial information 
network protection markets, where the growing threat posed 
by cyber–attacks is creating opportunities for new protection 
technologies. Finally, this segment has the technology and 
products to solve a diverse range of problems in telecoms, 
medical, industrial and consumer markets, offering most 
scope to enable the Group to diversify away from dependence 
on defence.
Pyrotechnics & Munitions
The global military pyrotechnic and ammunition market has 
suffered a steep decline following the drop–off in military 
activity in Afghanistan. However, in regions where there is 
growth in defence spending and major capability upgrades, 
there is some growth in demand as countries buy war  
stockpiles of ammunition and pyrotechnics to support this. 
Energetic Sub–Systems
The Energetic Sub–Systems market remains steady, driven 
by the existing operational military aircraft fleets, long–term 
missile production programmes, and a sustained tempo of 
military and civilian satellite launches and deployments. This 
segment has some non–military applications, including space 
and the oil and gas markets, and the Group expects demand 
to remain steady in these niches.
Pictured:
A HH–60H Seahawk helicopter launches flares.
15
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
OPERATIONAL
“Operational performance improvements beginning to show benefits  
in challenging defence markets.”
Good progress with Performance Recovery Programme
 — Creation of leaner, simpler organisation with elimination of divisional structure and overhead.
 — Integration of four pairs of businesses to exploit synergies.
Completion of Strategic Planning Process
 — Clear view of priorities for future investment.
 — Identified potential non–core businesses.
Maintaining world lead
 — HMDS transitioning to Program of Record.
 — Sustained position of countermeasures for next–generation platforms.
International business development
 — Growing presence in Middle East and Asia–Pacific markets through local partnerships.
 See pages 2 and 3 for further information
Business highlights
Pictured:
A bomb disposal expert carrying a disrupter.
Pictured:
HMS Dragon's Lynx helicopter fires infra–red flares during an 
exercise over the T45 destroyer. (Crown Copyright)
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
16 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
fINANCIAL
“Chemring's improving operational performance has been offset by the effects of a 
deteriorating external trading environment, largely as a result of budgetary pressures on global 
defence spending, which have manifested in delays in order placement in all of its markets.”
Order book
£675.5m 
2012: £760.9m
Revenue
£624.9m 
2012: £740.3m
underlying operating profit
£72.1m 
2012: £88.3m
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
£559.0m
£803.3m
£876.7m
£760.9m
£675.5m
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
£503.9m
£597.1m
£724.1m
£740.3m
£624.9m
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
£114.7m
£135.6m
£135.8m
£88.3m
£72.1m
 See pages 28 and 33 for further information
Segmental highlights
Countermeasures
 
Creation of Chemring 
Countermeasures USA by 
integration of Alloy Surfaces 
and Kilgore Flares.
Sensors &  
Electronics
Building on continued 
success of HMDS, with 
growing international 
interest and new detection 
technologies, applications 
and non–defence 
opportunities.
Pyrotechnics & 
Munitions
Improving operational 
performance.
Energetic 
Sub–Systems
Integration of Hi–Shear with 
Chemring Energetic Devices.
Revenue
£125.0m
Revenue
£211.3m
Revenue
£200.6m
Revenue
£88.0m
17
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Segmental review
COUNTERMEASURES
Our business units:
Chemring Countermeasures USA - incorporating Alloy 
Surfaces and Kilgore Flares - manufactures infra–red (IR) air 
countermeasures, and is the only dedicated manufacturer of 
covert multi–spectral special material decoys.
The business is the foremost supplier of airborne expendable 
IR decoy flares, and serves as the sole–source IR decoy flare 
supplier for some of the world’s most sophisticated and 
advanced airborne platforms. Kilgore was the first expendable 
IR decoy flare manufacturer to introduce full automation to 
the decoy manufacturing process, bringing a new level of 
safety and quality to the industry not previously seen.
Chemring Countermeasures - based in the UK, is a world 
leader in the design, development and manufacture of 
advanced expendable countermeasures for air and sea 
platforms, and is also developing next generation launchers 
for deploying naval decoys.
Chemring Australia - Australia’s only onshore manufacturer 
of aircraft expendable countermeasures, and supplier of a 
range of pyrotechnic and military training products.
Analysis
Revenue in the Countermeasures segment was  
£125.0 million, down 23.4% on the previous year. This was 
primarily due to a lower opening order book in the US and 
UK, resulting from the drawdown from Afghanistan, but 
also reflected US Department of Defense delays in product 
acceptance, order funding and awards. Both sequestration 
and continuing resolution have caused delays to orders 
and sales, especially in relation to special material decoys. 
Further issues were experienced as a result of the US 
Government shutdown in October 2013. Sales at the Group's 
Australian operation reduced as a result of lower expenditure 
by the Australian Defence Force. The closing order book 
for Countermeasures was £160.8 million, down 24.6% on 
the previous year, reflecting generally lower order intake, 
particularly in the US, due to the effects of the drawdown 
from Afghanistan.
Activities during the year
The two US countermeasures business units have been 
integrated to form Chemring Countermeasures USA. This 
is enabling the Group to reduce overheads, retain the best 
management talent, reduce costs when volumes are low, and 
take advantage of synergies. It has also enabled the Group to 
focus operational and quality improvement resource on the 
significant challenges at Kilgore. The integration is delivering 
cost savings and, more importantly, is improving performance 
to customers.
The US Government shutdown in October 2013 resulted 
in the closure of the DCMA, the government agency with 
responsibility for inspecting and approving products for 
delivery to the US Department of Defense. This closure 
impacted deliveries in the final weeks of the year, the 
effects of which were particularly felt at Kilgore, which 
also continued to be impacted by production quality issues. 
Further steps are being taken to strengthen the management 
team at this business, and in the past six months a new 
General Manager and a new Health, Safety & Environment 
Manager have been appointed. These appointments are 
already having a meaningful impact on the business, and 
relationships with customers have improved significantly as a 
consequence. 
The inclusion of decoy dispensers on the Joint Strike Fighter, 
with the significant costs associated with embedding these 
into the airframe and the development of a dedicated suite 
of flares for this platform, gives confidence that the Group's 
countermeasures technology will remain a critical element of 
defensive aids for military aircraft.
Chemring Countermeasures USA has developed a number 
of new evolutions of its special material decoys, and has 
successfully flight–tested a new MJU–66 decoy. This decoy, 
which will be used on multiple platforms, including the F–16, 
A–10 and C130 transport aircraft, will be fielded in 2014. 
In addition, the ASD–1292 decoy, which is an advanced IR 
decoy that was developed to beat multiple advanced threats, 
was successfully flight–tested in 2013. It is now scheduled 
for further testing in 2014 by a number of US agencies and 
See more information online 
www.chemring.co.uk
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
18 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
services. In flight–testing, this flare has been shown to be 
an effective single decoy solution against legacy and most 
advanced IR threats.
Chemring Countermeasures USA continues to win new export 
orders. In 2013, the business received two FMS purchase 
orders from the US Army for M211 sales to a Middle Eastern 
customer, with further FMS orders expected shortly from 
other customers in the region. 
Interest in Chemring Countermeasures USA’s MJU–7A/B 
decoy remains high worldwide, as those countries using the 
F–15 move away from the older technology MJU–10 to the 
MJU–7A/B. This decoy can be used on the F–15 and F–16 
fighters, as well as the C17 transport aircraft, which has 
opened up new markets in India, the UAE and Oman.
In Europe, Chemring Countermeasures and Chemring 
Technology Solutions have engaged in their first joint 
development. This relates to the CENTURION naval decoy 
launcher, where Phase 3 of development of the launcher 
software has successfully been completed. These businesses 
have also co–operated in the development of an air 
countermeasure electronic sequencer - a small circuit board 
which fits inside a standard flare cartridge case to provide 
accurate time delays for a single flare capable of firing 
multiple shots. This not only increases the decoy deployment 
capacity within existing aircraft dispenser constraints, but 
also opens up technical and market opportunities in air 
countermeasures.
The CENTURION launcher continues to generate significant 
interest. Originally conceived by Chemring Countermeasures 
to deliver accurate placement of countermeasures for 
anti–ship missile defence, the CENTURION launcher is 
now also being offered as a multi–role system, capable of 
deploying a wide range of additional effectors. These include 
acoustic decoys and short–range missiles.
Since the year end, Chemring Countermeasures, in 
collaboration with Raytheon Missile Systems, successfully 
conducted a first “proof of concept” by launching a Raytheon 
Javelin missile from the CENTURION launcher.
Outlook
The outlook for the air countermeasures market is expected 
to remain challenging in the short term, with the decline in 
NATO procurement outpacing growth in non–NATO markets. 
While Chemring has sole–source qualified positions on the 
two major new platforms, Joint Strike Fighter and Typhoon, 
delays in aircraft deliveries and expected in–service dates will 
lead to the deferment of procurements of war reserves and 
training rounds for these fleets. 
Encouragingly, these delays are driving capability extensions 
to existing platforms and there is heightened interest in 
Chemring's countermeasure products from non–NATO 
customers. There is also a growing capability gap in 
customers’ naval countermeasures, with resulting interest in 
naval decoys and launchers. However, the timing of orders in 
the current tight budget environment remains uncertain. 
While demand for countermeasures has fallen dramatically 
in recent years, the Group considers that it is now close to 
minimum sustaining volumes. This ensures that production 
lines can be maintained at a high state of readiness to 
quickly ramp–up output when new threats arise. Chemring's 
principal customers are maintaining some development effort 
to ensure their capability against the next generation of 
threats but until budgets recover, a material improvement in 
production volumes will be dependent upon the new aircraft 
programmes entering service. 
Order book
underlying 
operating profit
£160.8m £13.2m
(2012: £213.3m) (2012: £20.4m)
Revenue
underlying 
operating margin
£125.0m 10.6%
(2012: £163.2m) (2012: 12.5%)
19
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
SENSORS & 
ELECTRONICS
Segmental review
Our business units:
Chemring Sensors & Electronic Systems - incorporating 
Non–Intrusive Inspection Technology (NIITEK) and Chemring 
Detection Systems - is the leading US manufacturer of 
vehicle–mounted ground penetrating radar mine detection 
systems, and the leading developer and supplier of  
vehicle–mounted chemical and biological detection systems.
Chemring Technology Solutions - incorporating Roke Manor 
Research and Chemring EOD - is a world class developer of 
detection, portable electronic warfare and network protection 
technologies. It also manufactures a range of products for 
detection, assessment and neutralisation of improvised 
explosive devices and unexploded ordnance.
Analysis
Revenue in the Sensors & Electronics segment was  
£211.3 million, 7.7% lower than the previous year, and was 
underpinned by ongoing fulfilment of the $579 million  
multi–year HMDS ground penetrating radar indefinite delivery, 
indefinite quantity (“IDIQ”) contract. The closing order book 
for Sensors & Electronics was £106.2 million, up 5.5% on 
2012, as a result of major orders for HMDS and chemical and 
biological detection products. 
Activities during the year
Chemring has integrated two US operations to create a single 
business unit - Chemring Sensors & Electronic Systems. 
This integration allows the Group to leverage its technology 
capabilities, co–ordinate customer interaction and maximise 
efficiencies within the supply chain.
Trading at Chemring Sensors & Electronic Systems was 
strong, and included completion of the initial $161.3 million 
delivery order placed under the HMDS IDIQ contract. Orders 
totalling $141.0 million were placed under this contract 
during the year, with these orders expected to be fulfilled 
in the period to May 2014. Encouragingly, the Group has 
continued to receive interest in its ground penetrating radar 
from other NATO countries, with sales to Australia, Italy, 
Turkey and Spain during the year.
During the year, Chemring Sensors & Electronic Systems 
and Chemring Australia were recognised in a prestigious 
Australian defence industry award for their work in helping 
to deliver Australia’s protected route clearance capability. 
The award recognised the close relationship between defence 
and industry that is required to deliver complex military 
procurement projects in a timely and cost–effective manner.
The ground penetrating radar product range, which began 
with the large–scale HMDS, is expanding into smaller scale 
solutions designed to deliver capability to dismount troops. 
These solutions include a vehicle–mounted squad support 
unit designed for fast–moving infantry, an autonomous mine 
detection system mounted on a man–packable robot R–VISOR, 
and handheld ground penetrating radar and metal detector 
solutions. These solutions have continued to receive strong 
research and development funding from the US Department 
of Defense. 
The HMDS programme has historically been funded as an 
Urgent Operational Requirement (UOR), driven by demand 
for Iraq and Afghanistan, but is currently transitioning into a 
long–term capability and is expected to be funded from the 
US Department of Defense’s core budget through a Program 
of Record.
In October 2013, Chemring Sensors & Electronic Systems 
was awarded a $10.6 million contract by the US Army for 
the procurement of six HMDS test systems. These will be 
used for advanced testing in preparation for a long–term 
HMDS procurement from base budget funds. This is a 
significant development, potentially securing the position 
of HMDS as a long–term capability for the US military. Both 
the R–VISOR robot–mounted ground penetrating radar and 
handheld detection solutions are also expected to transition 
to Programs of Record during 2014. The operational and 
logistical life cycle of these systems is expected to be over 
ten years. The ground penetrating radar technology used in 
these solutions is being augmented by additional capabilities, 
including sensors from Chemring Technology Solutions, to 
enhance performance.
See more information online 
www.chemring.co.uk
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
20 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Internationally, all of the HMDS orders received this year have 
been delivered. Several countries deployed these systems into 
the current theatre of operations in the Middle East with 
great success. Additionally, after the Turkish Ministry of 
National Defence received its initial delivery of HMDS and 
R–VISOR systems, it is planning further expansion of this 
fleet. These systems, are now being used as an active 
detection solution for the Turkish forces in conflict zones. The 
initial Italian “Minebuster” systems are currently undergoing 
testing at multiple sites around Italy. Additionally, the South 
Korean Ministry of National Defense began trials on a robot–
mounted mid–scale solution in late 2013. 
Chemring Detection Systems also performed well during the 
year , and in January 2013, was awarded a $28.5 million 
delivery order against a multi–year IDIQ contract to supply 
chemical detection systems to the US Army. This is the final 
order expected to be placed under the IDIQ. Later in the year , 
the US Army placed a further order worth $25.2 million for 
the production and delivery of thirty two Joint Biological Point 
Detection Systems. These systems will be installed in the 
Stryker Nuclear Biological Chemical Reconnaissance Vehicle.
In the UK, Roke Manor Research and Chemring EOD have 
been integrated to create Chemring Technology Solutions, 
with the explosive ordnance disposal business reporting 
alongside Roke’s three other sectors of defence, security and 
technology solutions. Chemring Technology Solutions had a 
favourable sales mix in the year, weighted towards  
higher–margin product sales and away from its historical 
focus on contract–based research and development activity.
The Resolve electronic warfare manpack system continues 
to attract interest from around the world. Development of 
the product range continues, in order to meet users' needs 
for lighter, yet more capable, systems and in September, a 
lightweight version designed specifically for on–the–march 
missions was launched. Weighing just ten kilograms, the 
lightweight manpack system fits into a standard daysack, 
delivering dismounted soldiers more flexible electronic 
warfare capabilities. A focused push on the Group's strategic 
electronic warfare capability is also delivering positive results, 
with sales of the Locate product into Europe. 
The Group is raising the profile and level of investment in 
non–defence products and technology, and a number of 
concepts are showing early promise. Efforts continue to 
diversify into commercial markets. The SmartSwitch product, 
which delivers a complete framework to optimise mobile data 
user experience and maximise operator profitability, has been 
tested by several global mobile network operators. Product 
evaluations indicate that SmartSwitch is a technically superior 
product and a front runner for significant opportunities in 
2014.
Alongside product development, there have been successes 
in winning customer–funded development, with Chemring 
Technology Solutions delivering over £1 million of specialist 
development capability to major customers.
Outlook
The long–term outlook for Sensors & Electronics is robust. 
Many countries acknowledge a significant and growing gap 
in their capabilities to deal with the persistent and rapidly 
evolving threat of IEDs. This is resulting in sustained interest 
in Chemring's detection, jamming and defeat products from 
both NATO and non–NATO markets. 
Other programmes, such as the Stryker reconnaissance 
vehicle, will complete during 2014. The focus is therefore on 
investing in technology to ensure a strong position on new 
programmes as they arise. The Group will continue to invest 
and develop new detection offerings, including handheld 
and robot–mounted variants. There also continues to be 
significant interest in the Group's electronic warfare, security 
and cyber security solutions.
Order book
underlying 
operating profit
£106.2m £44.7m
(2012: £100.7m) (2012: £44.9m)
Revenue
underlying 
operating margin
£211.3m 21.2%
(2012: £228.9m) (2012: 19.6%)
21
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Segmental review
Our business units:
Simmel Difesa - a leading Italian–based supplier of naval 
ammunition, advanced fusing technology and missile 
components.
Mecar - a niche Belgian–based supplier of medium and  
large–calibre ammunition for light armoured vehicles.
Chemring Defence - incorporating Chemring Defence UK 
and Chemring Defence Germany - designs, develops and 
produces smoke and illumination pyrotechnics and payloads 
for military, OEM and safety customers.
Chemring Ordnance - a leading US manufacturer of military 
training pyrotechnics and ammunition for 40mm grenade 
launchers.
Analysis
Pyrotechnics & Munitions revenue was £200.6 million, a 
19.6% reduction from 2012. This reduction was partially a 
consequence of mortar system delivery delays. The closing 
order book for Pyrotechnics & Munitions was £315.5 million, 
a reduction of 9.9%. Order intake included a $42.1 million 
contract for the procurement and supply of non–standard 
ammunition for the US Government.
Activities during the year
A significant focus in Pyrotechnics & Munitions has been on 
enhancing operational performance and optimising routes 
to market, whilst developing a coherent and comprehensive 
product catalogue. These activities have started to deliver 
results. At Chemring Ordnance, the Anti–Personnel Obstacle 
Breaching System (APOBS) production line has been 
enhanced, resulting in improved gross margins. The overall 
staffing and facilities layout at Chemring Ordnance has also 
been revised, to raise efficiency and throughput.
At Simmel, a significant improvement in production efficiency 
has resulted from selective automation of processes and a 
general revision of layout and processes. This has resulted 
in greater than 20% cost savings on our naval ammunition 
packing lines.
Technology refreshments have also been used to improve 
margins, exemplified by the development of new  
micro–electronics for proximity fuzes, resulting in a 6% gross 
margin improvement for these products.
Naval
The naval ammunition market remains stable, with revenue 
at similar levels to 2012. However, order intake has been 
disappointing due to delays in receipt of significant orders 
from non–NATO customers, although the Group is confident 
of receiving these orders during 2014. Nonetheless, the 
Group received several orders from Middle Eastern customers 
and grew the level of naval munitions business with the NATO 
Support Agency.
In furthering market reach, Simmel has signed an agreement 
with a Turkish partner for the technology transfer of naval 
munitions. Initial activities will be focused on 40mm L70 
munitions for the domestic market and selected export 
countries, mainly in the Caucasus area. Negotiations are also 
ongoing with a customer for the establishment of a  
co–production capability in the Middle East.
Land ammunition
Integration of the first turreted mortar system was completed 
during the year, and Mecar is working towards additional 
orders for these systems. Sales of munitions continued at 
historic levels, the majority of which were to strategic Middle 
Eastern customers. Whilst order intake was disappointing in 
numerical terms, this was due solely to the delay in receipt of 
a single strategic order, due to the customer's reassessment 
of requirements. This order is anticipated within the next 
quarter. The Group remains in a very strong position to 
exploit opportunities in the Egyptian marketplace when 
export licence approval activity resumes.
In seeking to develop its market presence, Chemring has 
signed a number of strategic agreements focused on 
technology sharing, co–production and joint marketing. 
PyROTECHNICS 
& MUNITIONS
See more information online 
www.chemring.co.uk
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
22 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Mecar has signed agreements with Burkan in the UAE, and 
with Emgepron in Brazil, to have Mecar products assembled 
in–country for local market needs. The agreement with 
Emgepron puts Mecar in a strong position to meet the current 
105mm tank and future 105mm light armoured vehicle (LAV) 
ammunition requirements, and provides a base to service 
other South American requirements. Following the signing 
of a strategic agreement with ATK, Mecar will complete 
the development of the 30mm APFSDS–T and 120mm HEP 
rounds in 2014, to increase its product portfolio in two new 
calibres. 
During 2013, development of the 120mm mortar red 
phosphorus smoke round was completed, and the first 
production delivery will take place in 2014. Work has also now 
commenced on an improved 90mm MK8 TPFSDS round for the 
Belgian Army, which has a fleet of forty 90mm–armed LAVs. 
Deliveries of 81mm mortar ammunition to NATO customers 
continued at a steady pace. However, the withdrawal of troops 
will result in a slowdown in requirements. The business is 
therefore actively pursuing opportunities in new markets for 
this product range.
Chemring Ordnance finished the year with strong order 
intake, exceeding its order forecast by over 50%. The order 
improvement was helped significantly by capturing a  
$42 million non–standard ammunition contract for the 
US Government.
Outlook
The outlook for Pyrotechnics & Munitions is mixed. NATO 
demand is reducing but this is being offset by Chemring's 
leading positions in naval ammunition and certain  
large–calibre tank and armoured vehicle munitions. The  
Group will leverage its position in non–NATO markets, 
particularly where customers are building up national 
capabilities with new armoured vehicle fleets.
Order book
underlying 
operating profit
£315.5m £13.0m
(2012: £350.1m) (2012: £21.2m)
Revenue
underlying 
operating margin
£200.6m 6.5%
(2012: £249.5m) (2012: 8.5%)
Pictured:
A paratrooper mortar platoon team fires 81mm shells in 
support of a patrol in Afghanistan. (Crown Copyright)
23
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Segmental review
Our business units:
Chemring Energetic Devices - incorporating Chemring 
Energetic Devices and Hi–Shear Technology Corporation - is 
a leading US supplier of pyrotechnic and electromechanical 
systems for space, safety and military training applications.
The business is a leading supplier of space–qualified initiators 
and low–shock satellite separation systems, and a range 
of pyromechanisms for aircrew egress. It also develops 
advanced sub–systems for ballistic missile defence and 
tactical weapons.
Chemring Energetics - incorporating Chemring Energetics 
UK and Chemring Nobel in Norway - is a leading supplier of 
detonators, actuators, rocket motors, high explosive filling, 
canopy cutting cords and pyromechanisms for safety and 
aircrew egress, and demolition stores for the UK Ministry 
of Defence. It is also a leading supplier of high explosives 
and energetic binders to the defence, security, oil and gas 
industries.
Analysis
Energetic Sub–Systems revenue was £88.0 million, a 10.8% 
reduction from 2012. This was mainly as a result of the 
reduction in defence spending in the US and UK. The closing 
order book for Energetic Sub–Systems was £93.0 million, a 
reduction of 3.9%.
Activities during the year
The Group is integrating Hi–Shear with Chemring Energetic 
Devices to exploit common technology and production 
synergies. This integration is resulting in common systems 
and processes, which will facilitate better management of 
the operations. In addition, the integration is improving the 
loading of production facilities to alleviate manufacturing 
bottlenecks, and has resulted in a more co–ordinated sales 
force. The combined business will be better able to leverage 
volume and integrate technology development plans, while 
also having a streamlined management structure. The 
combined portfolio of defence and non–military customers 
provides an opportunity for future growth.
In December 2013, the conditional sale of Chemring 
Energetic Devices' business based in Clear Lake, South Dakota 
was agreed. The gross sales proceeds will be $10.0 million 
(£6.1 million), subject to a working capital adjustment. 
Chemring Nobel had its best ever revenue year, whilst further 
developing the site and its processes to ensure business 
continuity at this level. This business continues to develop its 
portfolio of products to suit the oil and gas industry, as well 
as the defence primes.
Chemring Energetics UK has successfully commissioned its 
state–of–the–art primary explosive remote manufacturing 
facility, built to replace an old labour–intensive facility. 
Product from the facility is now being qualified with 
customers. 
Safety systems
Chemring Energetic Devices successfully qualified product 
on the Digital Recovery Sequencer, a new product that 
will generate sales every year from the US Air Force and 
international customers. Chemring Energetic Devices also 
won a product improvement programme for the US Air 
Force B–1B bomber ejection system components that will 
increase profitability from the manufacturing improvements. 
Additionally, the business received international orders for 
fourteen JCAST pilot flight gear testers, and completed 
qualification and received the first production order for the 
safe and arm fuze used on Lockheed Martin’s smart version of 
the 2.75 inch Hydra missile. 
Chemring Energetics UK continues to be the sole supplier of 
energetic material for Martin Baker Aviation ejection systems. 
ENERGETIC 
SUB–SySTEMS
See more information online 
www.chemring.co.uk
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
24 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Space
Chemring Energetic Devices was awarded a $5 million 
contract to produce the fore and aft thrusters used to 
separate the side–mounted booster modules on the Atlas V 
heavy lift launch vehicle. Hi–Shear was awarded a contract to 
develop a new standard initiator for NASA’s Orion project. 
Chemring Energetics UK is developing lead–free explosive 
cords for the European space market, which will be a move 
into a new sector for the business.
Missiles
Hi–Shear’s newly developed and qualified electronic safe and 
arm fuze for the Missile Segment Enhancement programme 
nearly doubles the existing Patriot Advanced Capability 
missile performance envelope. The missile has successfully 
completed all flight qualification testing. Raytheon Missile 
Systems awarded a sole–source contract for the manufacture 
and future qualification of an ejector line cutter to be used on 
the US Navy’s SM3–Blk2A ballistic missile defence missile. In 
the next phase of the programme, this cutter and its power 
cartridge will undergo a series of qualification tests to meet 
the US Navy’s stringent performance requirements. 
The Group has secured its position on a number of missile and 
space programmes, and its sole–source position on a number 
of programmes secures a good level of base activity. 
Chemring Energetics UK has continued to work on its major 
contract for components for the Next Generation Light 
Anti–Tank Weapon. Sales under this contract have been 
delayed due to technical performance issues, and the 
business continues to work with its partners on the 
programme to complete delivery of its obligations.
Civil aerospace
Chemring Energetics UK has been selected and is supplying 
product into the safety system for the Boeing Dreamliner. 
The product has been qualified in the aircraft oxygen release 
system.
Demolition stores
In the UK, Chemring Energetics secured a £9.9 million 
contract to supply the UK Ministry of Defence with plastic 
explosive for a four year period commencing in April 2014.
This contract strengthens Chemring's position as a leader in 
the supply of demolition products to the military. The contract 
was won after Chemring Energetics UK took part in the UK 
Ministry of Defence’s competitive tendering process that 
started in July 2012.
A derivative of the SABREX family of flexible and  
explosively–efficient linear cutting charges has been 
successfully developed for the US Navy, and this is expected 
to generate more interest in this product from other areas of 
the US Department of Defense.
Outlook
The Energetic Sub–Systems segment is expected to be 
relatively flat in the near term. Growth will be generated 
by diversification into non–defence markets, with the 
development of bespoke products for fire suppression, 
security and space applications. Defence requirements will 
continue to reduce within NATO and emphasis will therefore 
be on securing positions in emerging markets, particularly the 
Middle East and Far East.
Order book
underlying 
operating profit
£93.0m £11.3m
(2012: £96.8m) (2012: £12.3m)
Revenue
underlying 
operating margin
£88.0m 12.8%
(2012: £98.7m) (2012: 12.5%)
25
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Q: Given recent problems and the 
uncertainty in Chemring’s traditional 
markets, what changes have you 
made to ensure the business is 
more resilient in the future? 
A: We have achieved a great deal this year and made 
significant progress in realigning the business with the 
realities of the constrained defence spending environment 
that we are operating in, whilst also working hard to ensure 
that we have the correct management and reporting 
structures in place to more effectively drive business 
development across the Group. Under the Performance 
Recovery Programme, we have simplified the Group structure 
to become more coherent and integrated. 
Operational performance has improved as a result, with new 
measures put in place to manage capacity, reduce waste, and 
ensure consistent quality in our products. In tandem, we’ve 
focused sharply on cash and cost management, with a culture 
of stringent cost awareness now embedded across the Group. 
The business is more streamlined and, importantly, resilient 
to market dynamics; the restructuring, office closures and 
reduction in headcount will realise savings of £10.0 million 
per annum from 2014. These operational changes will allow 
us to be more flexible and respond to changes in demand, 
whilst putting in place a stable foundation for the future.
Q: How has Chemring been affected 
by the spending cuts in the US 
caused by sequestration and the 
shutdown of the US Government at 
the beginning of October? 
A: Spending cuts and uncertainty in the US have 
undoubtedly created testing conditions for all defence 
companies and we are no different. The US Government 
shutdown in October resulted in the closure of a large number 
of government departments. This included the Defense 
Contract Management Agency, the government agency with 
responsibility for inspecting and approving products for 
delivery to the US Department of Defense. This was extremely 
frustrating since it impacted on our October 2013 deliveries 
CeO questions and answers
“We have achieved a great deal this year and made 
significant progress in realigning the business. Despite 
the headwinds we are facing in our core markets, I am 
optimistic about the Group's long–term prospects.”
Mark Papworth, Chief Executive
to the US Department of Defense in the final few weeks of 
the financial year, and made it necessary for us to bring down 
market expectations.
Unpredictable events such as this have meant that we have 
had to adapt our business and have budgeted accordingly 
for 2014. It is prudent to assume that the effects of the US 
defence spending cuts will adversely affect Chemring during 
the coming year, although I would highlight that the US is still 
prioritising defence electronics spending and, as a result, we 
continue to see robust levels of demand for our Sensors & 
Electronics products.
Q: How well is Chemring placed to 
benefit from opportunities in  
non–NATO markets given the cuts to 
the US defence budget?
A: Non–NATO markets do represent an opportunity for 
Chemring and already account for over 25% of total Group 
revenues, through sales in more than twenty countries. 
However, they are not an instant remedy to the difficulties in 
our traditional markets: doing business in these geographies 
brings with it various cultural, political and commercial issues 
that aren’t present in the US, UK and Europe.
Q: When do you envisage a return 
to more encouraging trends in the 
defence market?
A: The defence sector is dependent on so many external, 
non–cyclical factors that this is very difficult to predict. We 
expect US, UK and European markets to remain subdued 
in 2014 and 2015, with visibility continuing to be limited, 
particularly in the US. However, we are starting to see signs 
that the UK defence budget is stabilising, and are seeing 
key export markets such as the Middle East, India and Brazil 
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
26 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
continue to grow. Although US defence spending is likely to 
remain under pressure in the medium term, we are expecting 
a return to top–line budget growth there from 2016 onwards. 
In the meantime, there is much we can do by way of self–
help to ensure Chemring’s performance keeps improving, 
regardless of wider market trends that are, frankly, outside of 
our control.
Q: What are your priorities for 2014? 
A: We have made good progress in our work to transform 
the way in which Chemring operates, and we will continue this 
during 2014, ensuring these changes are properly bedded–in 
and our integration programmes are complete. We will also 
focus on leveraging business development opportunities that 
the new Group structure engenders, including exploring  
non–military applications of our technology and increasing our 
presence in growing markets. We know that we have work to 
do to restore investor confidence given the issues of recent 
years. However , the recently completed Strategic Planning 
Process has confirmed the Group’s market–leading positions 
and the strength of its technology in a number of areas. 
It also highlighted new defence and adjacent non–defence 
opportunities that the Group has yet to exploit. We have great 
people and technologies at Chemring, and there is much to aim 
for in 2014 and beyond.
Q: What is your longer term strategy 
for the business?
A: In November, we announced that we had concluded that 
there are a number of businesses within the Group which 
do not form part of the longer–term business strategy, and 
that we had started a process to divest of certain of these 
businesses. Our strategy is to reposition the portfolio for 
future growth through technology exploitation. We will focus 
on our core competencies, directing investment into those 
lines of business which have technologies, products and 
market positioning that provide opportunities to achieve 
sustainable high margins and revenue growth.
Q: In which geographies, markets 
and products do you see the best 
opportunities?
A: We’ve already identified opportunities to move beyond 
our traditional markets through the Performance Recovery 
Programme, and the Strategic Planning Process takes this 
further. As things stand, we think there is good potential to 
expand sales of our Sensors & Electronics products outside 
the US and the UK. These products are subject to preferential 
spend in many countries and we have well–established, 
market–leading technologies that will help us capitalise on 
that. Non–NATO markets are obviously also a priority; we are 
particularly enthusiastic about India, a market where defence 
spending is set to double by 2017. 
The Middle East is another region where we have identified 
positive trends in defence budgets, with Saudi Arabia 
particularly keen to invest in security.
Q: Have you been able to preserve 
the Group’s safety record despite 
integrating businesses and 
reducing costs?
A: We are committed to ensuring the safety of all our 
employees, customers and the general public. This is 
ingrained in our Code of Business Principles, and the 
commitment of all management and staff to upholding them 
has remained undimmed by our restructuring programme. 
Integrating different businesses understandably brings 
challenges, but the creation of a safe working environment 
has been a priority in every instance. We’ve invested 
substantially in robotics and automated processes to protect 
employees working with volatile materials as part of a 
continual programme of improvements.
Q: How have you found your first full 
year in the job?
A: It’s fair to say that things have been challenging but that 
is no less than I expected, given the well–documented issues 
that Chemring was facing when I arrived. The backdrop of 
constrained defence spending in the US is clearly affecting all 
defence companies at the moment but I have to admit that I 
was surprised by just how much room for improvement there 
was in terms of Chemring’s operational capabilities. This gives 
us a great opportunity to turn the business around and we 
have already started to see some tangible benefits from the 
actions we have undertaken. Chemring has some excellent 
businesses with strong positions in markets that hold 
significant potential for the Group so, despite the headwinds 
we are facing in our core markets, I am optimistic about the 
Group’s long–term prospects.
27
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
financial highlights
• Revenue from continuing operations down 15.6% to £624.9 million
• Underlying profit before tax £52.4 million
• Underlying operating margin 11.5% (2012: 11.9%)
• Underlying operating cash inflow £68.6 million
Group results
An analysis of underlying and total results is set out below:
2013
Underlying
£m
2013
Total
£m
2012
Underlying
£m
2012
Total
£m
Revenue 624.9 624.9 740.3 740.3
Segmental operating profit/(loss) 82.2 (26.8) 98.8 47.5
Unallocated corporate costs (10.1) (10.1) (10.5) (10.5)
Operating profit/(loss) 72.1 (36.9) 88.3 37.0
Share of profit after tax of associate — — 0.1 0.1
Finance income 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1
Finance expense (19.9) (19.9) (18.4) (18.4)
Profit/(loss) before tax 52.4 (56.6) 70.1 18.8
Tax (10.6) 9.1 (15.1) (5.6)
Profit/(loss) after tax 41.8 (47.5) 55.0 13.2
Results shown above are for continuing operations and exclude the results of the marine business, which was sold in July 2012. Underlying measures referred to are stated before costs 
relating to acquisitions and disposals, business restructuring and incident costs, profit on disposal of businesses, items deemed to be of an exceptional nature, impairment of goodwill and 
acquired intangibles, impairment of assets held for sale, amortisation of acquired intangibles and gains/losses on the movement in the fair value of derivative financial instruments.  
A reconciliation of underlying and total operating profit is set out in note 5 of the group financial statements.
During the year, changes in foreign exchange rates, principally the depreciation of sterling against the US dollar, increased 
reported revenues by £8.0 million. At constant exchange rates, revenue was £616.9 million, a reduction of 16.7%. 
An analysis of segmental revenue and underlying operating profit is set out below:
2013 2012
Revenue
£m
Underlying
operating
profit*
£m
Underlying
operating
margin
%
Revenue
£m
Underlying
operating
profit*
£m
Underlying
operating
margin
%
Countermeasures 125.0 13.2 10.6 163.2 20.4 12.5
Sensors & Electronics 211.3 44.7 21.2 228.9 44.9 19.6
Pyrotechnics & Munitions 200.6 13.0 6.5 249.5 21.2 8.5
Energetic Sub–Systems 88.0 11.3 12.8 98.7 12.3 12.5
Segment results 624.9 82.2 13.2 740.3 98.8 13.3
Unallocated corporate costs (10.1) (10.5)
72.1 11.5 88.3 11.9
Countermeasures revenue decreased by 23.4%, due to lower 
demand from the UK and US as a result of the continuing 
withdrawal from Afghanistan. In the US, volumes were also 
impacted by ongoing production delays caused by operational 
quality issues, most notably at Kilgore. However, the extent of 
these delays began to reduce towards the end of the year, due 
to the focus on operational improvements. Included within 
the results is revenue arising from the contract for the supply 
of aircraft countermeasures to a customer in the Middle East 
that was highlighted in the 2012 annual report.
Despite headcount reductions and other measures taken to 
improve efficiency, operating margins decreased to 10.6% 
(2012: 12.5%), reflecting the high fixed–cost base of the 
countermeasures production facilities. Development of the 
advanced countermeasure highlighted in the 2012 annual 
report is ongoing, with further customer trials due to be 
conducted in 2014. 
Financial review
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
28 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Sensors & Electronics revenue reduced by 7.7% to  
£211.3 million (2012: £228.9 million), despite strong sales of 
HMDS to the US Department of Defense and growing sales in 
other markets. Operating margins increased to 21.2%  
(2012: 19.6%), reflecting the release of contingencies held 
back prior to customer acceptance of the first delivery order 
for the HMDS under the IDIQ contract. In addition, the sales 
mix at Chemring Technology Solutions was weighted toward 
higher margin product sales.
Pyrotechnics & Munitions revenue reduced by 19.6% 
to £200.6 million (2012: £249.5 million), due to lower 
activity levels resulting from order deferrals by a number of 
customers. Underlying operating profit decreased by 38.7% to 
£13.0 million (2012: £21.2 million). Operating margins were 
impacted by an adverse sales mix, notably lower demand for 
illumination products, and by the high fixed–cost nature of the 
munitions facilities. Deliveries on the Group's contract for the 
supply of vehicle–based mortar systems recommenced in the 
final quarter of the year, following the resolution of export 
licence and customer acceptance issues.
Energetic Sub–Systems revenue reduced to £88.0 million  
(2012: £98.7 million), with deliveries constrained by 
production issues at Chemring Energetic Devices in the 
US. Demand from the major customers of the Group's UK 
operation, including the UK Ministry of Defence, was also 
lower. Operating profit of £11.3 million (2012: £12.3 million) 
resulted in an operating margin of 12.8% (2012: 12.5%). 
Margins benefited from a reduction in sales of lower margin 
build–to–print products manufactured at the Clear Lake 
facility, for which a conditional sale agreement was signed in 
December 2013.
Unallocated corporate costs were £10.1 million  
(2012: £10.5 million), reflecting an element of the savings 
from the simplification of the Group’s management structure 
and the closure of administrative offices in the UK and US.
As a result of these factors, the Group’s underlying operating 
profit was £72.1 million (2012: £88.3 million), a decrease of 
18.3%. The underlying operating margin was 11.5%  
(2012: 11.9%).
The total operating loss was £36.9 million  
(2012: £37.0 million profit). This loss is principally due to the 
higher level of non–underlying costs of £109.0 million  
(2012: £51.3 million) which are discussed below.
Net finance expense was £19.7 million  
(2012: £18.3 million). Included within finance expense is  
£0.5 million (2012: £0.8 million) in respect of retirement 
benefit obligations. 
Underlying profit before tax was £52.4 million  
(2012: £70.1 million), a decrease of 25.2%. Including  
non–underlying items, the total loss before tax was  
£56.6 million (2012: £18.8 million profit).
Tax on underlying profit before tax was £10.6 million  
(2012: £15.1 million), representing an effective tax rate 
of 20.2% (2012: 21.5%). The tax rate is comparable to the 
UK corporation tax rate, and benefits from the utilisation 
of research and development tax credits, together with the 
recognition of certain tax losses within the Pyrotechnics & 
Munitions segment. The effective tax rate on the total loss 
before tax was 16.1% (2012: 29.8%), due to the higher 
proportion of non–underlying costs in the total result.
Underlying profit after tax was £41.8 million  
(2012: £55.0 million), a decrease of 24.0%. Including  
non–underlying items, the total loss after tax was  
£47.5 million (2012: £13.2 million profit).
Analysis of non–underlying items
The use of underlying measures, in addition to the total 
measures noted above, is considered by the Board to improve 
comparability of business performance between periods and, 
in line with past practice, certain items are classed as  
non–underlying as set out below: 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Acquisition and disposal related 
costs 3.2 8.2
Business restructuring and 
incident costs 11.7 11.9
Profit on disposal of business — (10.3)
Impairment of goodwill 50.9 22.5
Impairment of acquired 
intangibles 15.7 —
Impairment of assets held for sale 8.8 —
Intangible amortisation arising 
from business combinations 18.8 20.9
Gain on fair value movements on 
derivatives financial instruments (0.1) (1.9)
Total non–underlying items 109.0 51.3
Acquisition and disposal related costs of £3.2 million include 
£2.1 million in respect of a one–off provision relating to 
an onerous lease for a business sold in 2003. Business 
restructuring and incident costs of £11.7 million include 
costs relating to the major simplification of Chemring's 
management structure (£4.4 million) and business unit 
integration and restructuring (£5.5 million) that has been 
completed as part of the Performance Recovery Programme.
The profit on disposal of business in the prior year related to 
the sale of the Group’s marine business in July 2012.
29
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Following a detailed review, goodwill relating to Hi–Shear of 
£50.9 million has been fully impaired as a result of lower 
expectations of future trading performance. In addition, 
an impairment of £15.7 million of acquired intangibles has 
been recognised in relation to Chemring Energetic Devices' 
Clear Lake facility, due to a decline in the market for its 
build–to–print products. In 2012, the goodwill impairment of 
£22.5 million related to Chemring Ordnance (£6.8 million) 
and Chemring Energetic Devices (£15.7 million). Impairment 
analysis is based on value–in–use calculations, with the 
impairments being primarily driven by business valuations 
negatively impacted by the challenging conditions facing the 
defence industry. 
In December 2013, conditional agreement was reached for 
the sale of Chemring Energetic Devices' Clear Lake facility. 
Assets and liabilities relating to Clear Lake have been 
classified as held for sale at 31 October 2013, incurring a 
further impairment charge of £8.8 million. 
The amortisation of intangible assets arising from business 
combinations was £18.8 million (2012: £20.9 million), with 
the decrease reflecting the fact that certain intangible assets 
are now fully amortised. This amortisation is treated as  
non–underlying to improve comparability and understanding 
of the results given its large size and its non–cash nature.
Shareholder returns
Underlying basic earnings per share were 21.6p  
(2012: 28.5p), a decrease of 24.2%. There was a basic loss 
per share of 24.6p (2012: 6.8p earnings per share).
The total dividend per share of 7.2p (2012: 9.5p) is covered 
3.0 times (2012: 3.0 times) by underlying earnings per share.
Shareholders’ funds at the year end were £383.8 million  
(2012: £433.5 million).
Pensions
The deficit on the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes, 
as defined in IAS 19 (Revised) Employee Benefits, was  
£25.1 million (2012: £27.0 million). This principally  
relates to the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme (the 
“Scheme”), a UK defined benefit scheme whose assets 
are held in a separately administered fund. The Scheme 
was closed to future accrual in April 2012. A full actuarial 
valuation for the Scheme as at 6 April 2012 has been 
prepared and updated to 31 October 2013, using the 
projected unit credit method. 
The actuarial valuation of the Scheme at 31 October 2013 
showed a deficit of £24.2 million, compared to a deficit of 
£25.9 million in the prior year. Following discussions with 
the Scheme's trustees, a new funding structure has been 
agreed. This replaces the previous £20.0 million lump 
sum funding commitment, which would have fallen due for 
payment in June 2014, with contributions of £8.2 million 
in the year to 31 October 2014 and £5.0 million annually 
thereafter. The Group has given a bank guarantee and letters 
of credit totalling £27.2 million (2012: £27.2 million) to the 
Scheme in respect of future contributions payable. Of these 
commitments, £20.0 million will progressively reduce as 
contributions are paid to the Scheme under the new funding 
structure.
Chemring will implement amendments to IAS 19 (Revised) 
Employee Benefits in its financial statements for the year 
ending 31 October 2014, and while there will be no resulting 
cash effect, the net interest cost associated with retirement 
benefit obligations is expected to increase by approximately  
£0.9 million per annum.
Chemring's UK employees are now offered membership of 
a defined contribution pension scheme. The majority of the 
Group's overseas pension arrangements are also defined 
contribution, save in those European countries where certain 
defined benefit pension arrangements are required.
Research and development
Research and development expenditure was £46.0 million 
(2012: £59.0 million). The reduction primarily reflects 
a lower level of customer–funded development projects.
Continued investment in research and development is a key 
aspect of the Group’s Performance Recovery Programme, 
and internally–funded research and development is expected 
to increase in 2014 as investment is made in product 
development, particularly within Sensors & Electronics. An 
analysis of research and development expenditure is set out 
below:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Customer–funded research and 
development 27.1 34.4
Internally–funded research and 
development
— expensed to the income statement 11.5 12.3
— capitalised 7.4 12.3
Total research and development 
expenditure 46.0 59.0
Amortisation of development and patent costs in the year 
was £5.9 million (2012: £4.6 million), reflecting a number of 
previously capitalised projects coming on–stream.
Financial review
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
30 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Cash flow
Underlying continuing operating cash flow was £68.6 million  
(2012: £114.9 million).
A summary of underlying Group cash flow from continuing 
operations is set out below:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Underlying continuing operating 
profit 72.1 88.3
Depreciation and loss on disposal of 
fixed assets 22.3 19.1
Amortisation of development costs, 
patents and licences 5.9 4.6
Underlying continuing profit, 
before interest, depreciation and 
amortisation 100.3 112.0
(Increase)/decrease in working capital (31.3) 19.9
Other movements (0.4) (17.0)
Underlying operating cash flow 68.6 114.9
Fixed asset expenditure (19.7) (41.1)
Tax (0.5) (6.1)
Interest (20.4) (23.8)
Underlying free cash flow 28.0 43.9
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment and capitalised 
development projects was £19.7 million (2012: £41.1 million). 
This includes £1.5 million (2012: £6.9 million) associated with 
the construction of new facilities at the Group's 
countermeasures sites in the UK and Australia. Other 
expenditure comprised numerous projects including health 
and safety related projects, to upgrade electricity supplies and 
automate production.
Tax payments were £0.5 milion (2012: £6.1 million), 
reflecting the lower profits of the Group, receipt of refunds in 
respect of prior periods and timing of payments. 
Interest payments reduced due to a lower level of gross debt 
during the year.
working capital
A summary of working capital is set out below:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Inventories 113.7 113.8
Trade receivables 76.2 90.9
Contract receivables 104.8 87.6
Trade payables (62.8) (100.2)
Advance payments (17.4) (11.7)
Accruals and deferred income (48.9) (45.6)
Other items (40.0) (41.5)
Total working capital 125.6 93.3
During September and October 2013, deliveries to customers 
in the Middle East were delayed due to constraints in available 
shipping capacity. Working capital at 31 October 2013 was 
higher as a consequence of these delays; however , this impact 
has largely unwound during the first quarter of the current 
financial year . Working capital has also risen due to a reduction 
in trade payables, reflecting a more sustainable approach 
towards creditor management. Contract accounting continues 
to be applied where appropriate, and contract accounted 
revenues represented 38% (2012: 37%) of total revenue.
The Group’s working capital is a key focus area for 
management, and initiatives have been implemented to raise 
working capital efficiency, notably through the reduction 
of inventories and contract receivables. Working capital 
is expected to reduce during 2014, although the profile 
of certain major contracts is now expected to lead to this 
reduction being weighted towards the second half of the 
current financial year.
Net debt, facilities and going concern
Net debt at 31 October 2013 was £248.7 million 
(2012: £244.8 million). The Group had £126.8 million  
(2012: £143.9 million) of undrawn borrowing facilities at the 
year end.
The Group’s debt facilities include a £230.0 million revolving 
credit facility with a syndicate of five banks. The facility, 
which is unsecured, provides both trade finance and funds 
for general working capital purposes. The term of this facility 
is to April 2015, with an option to extend for twelve months. 
In practice, it is intended that the facility will be refinanced 
during 2014. 
In addition to the revolving credit facility, the Group has fixed 
interest loan notes in the US, repayable in November 2016 
($80.0 million), November 2017 (£12.5 million and  
$125.0 million), and November 2019 ($200.0 million). The 
Group continues to have positive relationships with all its debt 
providers.
The Group is subject to two key financial covenants, which 
are tested quarterly, relating to the leverage ratio between 
underlying earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation (“underlying EBITDA”) and debt, and the interest 
cover ratio between underlying EBITDA and finance costs. 
The revolving credit facility and the loan notes have differing 
covenant compliance calculations, with the primary difference 
being that the revolving credit facility uses consolidated net 
debt in calculating the leverage ratio, whereas the loan notes 
use total gross debt. In June 2013, Chemring successfully 
concluded a revision of financial covenants with its debt 
providers. In respect of the revolving credit facility, the 
maximum permitted ratio of net debt to underlying EBITDA 
was increased to 3.50 times at the April and July 2013 testing 
dates, and then reduced to 3.25 times at the October 2013 
and January 2014 testing dates, before reverting to  
3.00 times thereafter . The basis of calculation of this ratio was 
also amended so as to translate non–sterling denominated 
31
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Financial review
debt using average, rather than closing, rates of exchange. 
In respect of the loan notes, the permitted ratio of debt to 
underlying EBITDA was increased to 3.50 times for the four 
quarters mentioned above before reverting to 3.00 times 
thereafter , with this covenant continuing to be based upon total 
gross debt. This covenant also uses average exchange rates. 
The Group complied with these covenants throughout 
the year, and this compliance is expected by the directors 
to continue for the foreseeable future. The result of the 
covenant tests at the year end are detailed below:
2013 2012
Covenant ratios - revolving credit 
facility
Maximum allowed ratio of 
consolidated net debt to underlying 
EBITDA 3.25x 3.00x
Actual ratio of consolidated net debt 
to underlying EBITDA 2.65x 2.14x
Minimum allowed ratio of underlying 
EBITDA to finance costs 4.00x 4.00x
Actual ratio of underlying EBITDA to 
finance costs 4.98x 6.71x
Covenant ratios - loan note 
agreements
Maximum allowed ratio of 
consolidated total debt to underlying 
EBITDA 3.50x 3.00x
Actual ratio of consolidated total debt 
to underlying EBITDA 2.78x 2.79x
Minimum allowed ratio of underlying 
EBITDA to finance costs 3.50x 3.50x
Actual ratio of underlying EBITDA to 
finance costs 5.61x 6.86x
The composition of gross and net debt is set out below:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Loan notes (259.1) (261.2)
Revolving credit facility — (71.1)
Other loans and finance leases (3.8) (8.5)
Gross debt (262.9) (340.8)
Cash 14.2 96.0
Net debt (248.7) (244.8)
The Group's level of debt, and therefore leverage, reflects 
the historic development of the Group through acquisition, 
together with the effect of growth in working capital and the 
substantial investment in production capacity. The Group 
continues to work towards a sustained reduction in debt 
through consistent conversion of operating profit to operating 
cash flow.
As part of their regular assessment of the business working 
capital and financing position, the directors have prepared a 
detailed trading budget and cash flow forecast for a period 
which covers at least twelve months after the date of approval 
of the financial statements. In assessing the forecast, the 
directors have considered:
• Trading risks presented by the current economic 
conditions in the defence market, particularly in relation 
to government budgets and spends.
• The impact of macroeconomic factors, particularly 
interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
• The status of the Group's financial arrangements and 
associated covenant requirements.
• Progress made in developing and implementing outcomes 
from the Strategic Planning Process, including the 
implications of disposing of businesses which do not form 
part of the Group's longer–term strategy.
• Mitigating actions available should business activities 
fall behind current expectations, including the deferral 
of discretionary overheads and restricting cash flows, 
together with the potential to dispose of non–core 
operations.
The long–term nature of the Group's business, taken together 
with the Group's order book, provide a satisfactory level of 
confidence to the Board in respect of trading.
The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on 
going concern. They have made appropriate enquiries and 
taken into account factors which are detailed in the strategic 
report. As a consequence, the directors believe that the 
Company is well placed to manage its risks. Further details 
on the covenants are set out in note 24 of the group financial 
statements, which also details how the Group manages its 
liquidity risk.
Whilst the current volatility in financial markets has created 
general uncertainty, the Group continues to have working 
capital headroom. The Group has been in compliance with its 
revolving credit facility and loan note covenants throughout 
2013 and is forecast to be in compliance for the coming 
twelve months. Additional sensitivity analysis has been 
prepared with a focus on the April 2014 covenant test date, 
when the permitted leverage ratios revert to 3.00 times, to 
consider the impact of a reduction in forecast EBITDA. This 
sensitised scenario includes identified mitigating actions 
that can be taken if needed and, based on the application 
of these, shows headroom on all covenant test dates. The 
directors, having considered the forecasts, the risks and 
associated mitigating actions, have a reasonable expectation 
that adequate financial resources will continue to be available 
for the foreseeable future. Thus, they continue to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
32 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
The Group’s strategy is underpinned by focusing on a number 
of key performance indicators. The key indicators that 
the Board and senior management utilise to assess Group 
performance are set out below. Similar indicators are used to 
review performance of each of the Group’s businesses, albeit 
that the exact nature of these varies between business units 
to reflect the differing nature of their operations.
Orders
The Group uses a number of key performance indicators 
relating to orders. These comprise order intake, order book 
and the level of order coverage for the balance of the current 
financial year. Details of order intake and order book by 
segment are as set out below:
Order intake Order book
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Countermeasures 80.7 106.3 160.8 213.3
Sensors & Electronics 212.3 256.2 106.2 100.7
Pyrotechnics & Munitions 157.3 203.0 315.5 350.1
Energetic Sub–Systems 84.2 94.7 93.0 96.8
Group 534.5 660.2 675.5 760.9
The closing order book at 31 October 2013 of £675.5 million 
represents a 11.2% decrease on the prior year, reflecting 
the budget constraints which continue to affect the group's 
principal NATO markets and the deferral of order placement 
decisions in a number of non–NATO markets. As at  
31 October 2013, of the orders on hand of £675.5 million, 
£477.7 million were for delivery in the year ending  
31 October 2014.
Segmental underlying operating profit
2013
£m
2012
£m
Countermeasures 13.2 20.4
Sensors & Electronics 44.7 44.9
Pyrotechnics & Munitions 13.0 21.2
Energetic Sub–Systems 11.3 12.3
Group 82.2 98.8
Segmental underlying operating profit is stated before 
charges for unallocated corporate costs and non–underlying 
items, as shown in note 6 to the group financial statements. 
Segmental underlying operating profit provides a consistent 
year–on–year measure of the trading performance of 
the Group’s operations. It does not include significant 
non–recurring or exceptional costs that would distort a 
comparative assessment, nor does it include unallocated 
corporate costs associated with operating a public company. 
The segmental underlying operating profit decreased by 
16.8% during the year, reflecting the reduction in revenue and 
the operating leverage effects associated with the high  
fixed–cost nature of certain of the Group’s activities.
Underlying operating margin
2013
%
2012
%
Countermeasures 10.6 12.5
Sensors & Electronics 21.2 19.6
Pyrotechnics & Munitions 6.5 8.5
Energetic Sub–Systems 12.8 12.5
Group 11.5 11.9
Operating margin is based on underlying segmental operating 
profit and provides an assessment of the profitability of the 
business. A focus on operating margin allows the impact of 
changes in revenue and cost base to be monitored, enabling 
comparisons to be made of management performance and 
trading effectiveness. The changes in margin of each segment 
reflect the weak market conditions, volume changes and 
performance improvement actions, as set out in this strategic 
report.
Underlying earnings per share
2013 2012
Total 21.6p 28.5p
Change on previous year (24.2)% (43.0)%
Underlying earnings per share is a key measure for the Group, 
reflecting the combined trading performance together with 
the impact of funding structure and taxation. The decrease in 
the year reflects the Group’s trading performance in difficult 
market conditions.
Debt to underlying EBITDA
2013 2012
Revolving credit facility
Actual ratio of consolidated net debt 
to underlying EBITDA 2.65x 2.14x
Maximum allowed ratio of 
consolidated net debt to  
underlying EBITDA 3.25x 3.00x
Loan note agreements
Actual ratio of consolidated total  
debt to underlying EBITDA 2.78x 2.79x
Maximum allowed ratio of 
consolidated total debt to  
underlying EBITDA 3.50x 3.00x
The ratio of underlying EBITDA generated by trading to the 
Group’s debt levels is a clear indicator of the leverage borne 
by the Group. The ratio is a specified financial covenant 
within the Group’s principal debt finance facilities the 
revolving credit facility and the loan note agreements and 
the ratio under each of these measurement bases therefore 
forms a key performance indicator for the Group. The basis 
of calculation under the two facilities differs in some regards, 
notably in the use of gross debt for the loan note agreements, 
compared to net debt for the revolving credit facility. The 
Group’s aim over the medium term is to reduce the ratio of 
net debt to underlying EBITDA to approximately 1.50 times.
key performance indicators
33
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
key performance indicators
Interest cover
2013 2012
Revolving credit facility
Actual ratio of underlying EBITDA to 
finance costs 4.98x 6.71x
Minimum allowed ratio of underlying 
EBITDA to finance costs 4.00x 4.00x
Loan note agreements
Actual ratio of underlying EBITDA to 
finance costs 5.61x 6.86x
Minimum allowed ratio of underlying 
EBITDA to finance costs 3.50x 3.50x
Interest cover provides a simple metric of the ratio between 
the underlying EBITDA generated by trading and the finance 
costs incurred in servicing the Group’s debt. It is an important 
indicator for the Group, and is a specified financial covenant 
under the revolving credit facility and loan note agreements. 
As with the ratio of debt to underlying EBITDA, there are 
certain differences in the bases of calculation of interest 
cover under the two facilities.
Underlying continuing operating cash flow
2013
£m
2012
£m
Operating cash flow 68.6 114.9
Operating cash flow provides a measure of the cash 
generated by the Group’s trading. It represents the cash that 
is generated to fund capital expenditure, interest payments, 
tax and dividends. In the Group's relatively short cycle 
business and with working capital being released, operating 
cash conversion closely follows operating profit. The Group's 
underlying operating cash flow decreased by 40.3% to  
£68.6 million during the year.
Safety
2013 2012
Lagging indicators
Fatalities — 1
Lost time incidents 33 32
Significant energetic incidents not  
causing injury — —
Leading indicators
Near misses reported and actioned 2,168 1,384
Many Chemring products involve the use of hazardous 
substances and energetic materials, and safety metrics are 
a fundamental part of the key performance indicators used 
to manage the business. All incidents and near misses are 
reported and investigated, in order to share findings and 
corrective actions throughout the Group. The Group's key 
lagging indicators are fatalities, the number of incidents 
that result in working time being lost through injury, and 
the number of energetic incidents that do not cause injury. 
In addition, the Group has a number of leading indicators, 
principally the level of near misses. The active reporting of 
near misses is encouraged by employees in order to highlight 
potential risk issues and enable these to be considered and 
addressed on a timely basis. The Group has had no significant 
process safety incidents in the year but our occupational 
safety performance remains flat. Further details on health 
and safety matters are included in the corporate responsibility 
review.
working capital and inventory
Working capital
2013
Working capital
£m
2012
Working capital
£m
Countermeasures 26.1 23.6
Sensors & Electronics 16.8 12.1
Pyrotechnics & Munitions 81.8 46.1
Energetic Sub–Systems 20.8 25.0
Unallocated items (19.9) (13.5)
Group 125.6 93.3
Inventory
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Countermeasures 29.0 30.9
Sensors & Electronics 11.5 12.3
Pyrotechnics & Munitions 51.3 45.8
Energetic Sub–Systems 21.9 24.8
113.7 113.8
Working capital is defined as inventories, trade and other 
receivables, contract receivables, trade and other payables, 
and provisions. A primary focus within working capital is 
inventory.
Optimum inventory levels drive both effective staff utilisation, 
ensuring staff are productive while awaiting materials, 
and cost efficiency. In addition, excess inventory results in 
second order costs such as increased storage and inventory 
management, write–off of ageing or obsolete inventory, 
and disposal costs, which can be significant for energetic 
materials. Chemring currently measures total inventory 
levels. However, further metrics to measure availability are 
being developed as part of a working capital management 
review.
Pictured right:
US Air Force pilot ejects from US Air Force Thunderbird at 
an air show at Mountain Home Air Force Base.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
34 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
35
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Principal risks and uncertainties
RISkS AND IMPACTS kEy MITIGANTS
Health and safety risks
The Group’s operations which utilise energetic 
materials are subject to inherent health and 
safety risks. From time to time, incidents may 
occur which could result in the temporary 
shutdown of facilities or other disruption to 
manufacturing processes, causing production 
delays and resulting in financial loss and 
potential liability for workplace injuries and 
fatalities.
The Board believes that responsibility for the delivery of world class safety 
standards is an integral part of operational management accountability, 
and is committed to ensuring that the Group’s leadership operates with 
health and safety as the top priority and that the strength of the Group's 
safety culture and the quality of its protective systems deliver operations 
where all employees and visitors feel and are absolutely safe. A new 
safety leadership programme has been developed this year , which will be 
attended by the management teams of every business during 2014. 
All employees now receive a booklet setting out the Group’s statements 
of intent in relation to delivery of its health and safety strategy and the 
behaviours required of them as individual employees. All employees 
are encouraged to report potential hazards, and to raise any health and 
safety concerns through the appropriate channels. 
The Group continues to invest in state–of–the–art process safety systems 
and equipment. The Group's safety and loss prevention programmes 
require detailed pre–construction reviews of process changes and new 
operations, and routine safety audits of operations are undertaken on a 
regular basis. 
All businesses are expected to proactively manage their own risks but, in 
addition, the top site risks at each business and their associated mitigation 
programmes are reviewed quarterly by the Risk Management Committee. 
Health and safety is included on the agenda at every Board meeting, and is 
discussed at the monthly Group Executive Committee meeting.
Further details on the Group’s approach to health and safety are set out 
in the corporate responsibility review.
Possible defence budget cuts
Defence spending depends on a complex mix of 
political considerations, budgetary constraints 
and the requirements of the armed forces to 
address specific threats and perform certain 
missions. As such, defence spending may be 
subject to significant fluctuations from year 
to year. Given the large budget deficits and 
the prevailing economic conditions in many 
NATO countries, the Group expects there to be 
continued downward pressure on budgets, and 
consequently, defence expenditure could be 
severely impacted.
In recognition of the issues affecting the Group's traditional NATO 
markets, business development activities are being focused on  
non–NATO markets, where defence expenditure is forecast to grow 
strongly over the next five to ten years. The Group has made good 
progress on developing its routes to market in India, Saudi Arabia, the 
United Arab Emirates and Brazil.
The Group has established a more focused international sales and 
business development team, and has implemented new processes 
to ensure that the businesses are successful in “winning every sales 
opportunity”. 
The Group also continually assesses whether its planned organic growth 
strategies and product developments align with government priorities 
for future funding. Most product development programmes take between 
six and twelve months to complete, and this gives the Group the ability 
to quickly redeploy engineering staff to product areas where funding is 
more secure. 
The Group continues to closely monitor the position in all the key 
markets in which it operates.
As described on pages 59 and 60, the Board is responsible for the Group’s systems of internal control and its risk management 
systems. The Board has constituted a Risk Management Committee, which meets quarterly, to review the key risks associated 
with the achievement of the annual budget and the three year plan for each business, the most significant health and safety 
risks identified at each site, and the risk control procedures implemented. The Committee reports biannually to the Audit 
Committee and the Board, and through this process, the Board has identified the following principal risks currently facing the 
Group. The mitigating actions taken by the Group management to address these risks are also set out below. The Group also 
mitigates its risk exposure through an insurance programme that covers property and liability risks, where it is appropriate and 
cost effective to do so.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
36 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
RISkS AND IMPACTS kEy MITIGANTS
Timing and value of orders
The Group’s profits and cash flows are 
dependent, to a significant extent, on the timing 
of award of defence contracts. In general, 
the majority of the Group’s contracts are of a 
relatively short duration and, with the exception 
of framework contracts with key customers, do 
not usually cover multi–year requirements. This 
means that an unmitigated delay in the receipt 
of orders could affect the Group's earnings and 
achievement of its budget, in any given financial 
year. 
The Group anticipates that delays in the 
placement of orders by traditional NATO 
customers, as a result of budgetary constraints, 
are likely to continue in the short to medium 
term. If the Group's businesses are unable to 
continue trading profitably during periods of 
lower order intake, financial performance will 
deteriorate and assets may be impaired.
As referred to above, the Group is focusing on the expansion of its 
business in non–NATO markets, where defence expenditure is forecast to 
increase.
Maximising order intake remains a key objective for the businesses, and 
they continue to address this through the strengthening of their sales 
and marketing resources. The businesses also continue to pursue  
long–term, multi–year contracts with their major customers wherever 
possible. 
The Group has undertaken various restructuring projects over the last 
year, which were aimed at restoring the profitability of those Group 
businesses which have suffered most from order delays in recent times.
Site optimisation plans are now being developed to ensure that the 
Group utilises its manufacturing facilities as efficiently as possible, within 
the constraints imposed by export control legislation and customer 
requirements.
Political risks
The Group is active in several countries that are 
suffering from political, social and economic 
instability. The Group's business in these 
countries may be adversely affected in a way 
that is material to the Group’s financial position 
and the results of its operations.
In addition, political unrest and changes in the 
political structure in certain non–NATO countries 
to which the Group currently sells could impact 
on their future defence expenditure strategy and 
the Group's ability to export products to these 
countries.
During periods of unrest, delays in obtaining 
export licences can result in delayed revenues.
The Group's businesses strive to maintain relationships at all levels 
within the political structure of certain key countries, in order to ensure 
that they are aware of and can react to proposed changes, if and when 
they occur. 
The businesses implement financing arrangements for contracts 
with high risk customers, which are intended to mitigate the impact 
of a deterioration in the customer’s financial position, and in certain 
circumstances, they may also procure political risks insurance. 
The Group is exploring opportunities for collaboration on the 
establishment of local manufacturing operations in certain countries, 
which will remove some of the uncertainty regarding export of products. 
The planned expansion in non–defence markets should also increase the 
Group's portfolio of products which are less sensitive from an export 
control perspective.
Operational risks
The Group's manufacturing activities may be 
exposed to business continuity risks, arising 
from plant failures, supplier interruptions or 
quality issues. These could result in financial 
loss, reputational damage and loss of future 
business.
All of the Group's businesses are required to prepare business continuity 
plans. 
The Group has introduced new requirements in relation to the reporting 
of key performance indicators this year, in order to provide better 
visibility on operational performance and to facilitate the identification of 
potential production and quality issues at an early stage. 
The Group insures certain business interruption risks where appropriate.
37
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Principal risks and uncertainties
RISkS AND IMPACTS kEy MITIGANTS
Introduction of new products
The Group’s approach to innovation and 
continued emphasis on research and 
development activity ensures that it is 
continually adding new products to the 
range. There is a need to ensure that this 
new product development is completed in a 
timely manner, and to a standard which allows 
volume manufacturing to be undertaken 
and the production of products against high 
reliability and safety criteria to meet customers’ 
requirements. Failure to achieve this may have 
both financial and reputational impacts. 
The Group also needs to ensure that it continues 
to upgrade its existing product range to compete 
with emerging technologies, and to avoid the 
risk of obsolescence or loss of business.
The Group has introduced a more focused product development and 
technology investment approach, in order to ensure that resources are 
applied appropriately across the Group in support of the three year plan. 
A Technology Review Board has been established to review all proposed 
research and development projects to ensure that key initiatives are 
being prioritised and to eliminate possible duplication of effort in 
different parts of the Group. 
Working groups have been established to drive and co–ordinate the 
Group's technology growth in certain key areas, such as cyber security.
Product liability and other 
customer claims
The Group may be subject to product liability and 
other claims from customers or third parties, 
in connection with (i) the non–compliance of 
these products or services with the customer’s 
requirements, due to faults in design or 
production; (ii) the delay or failed supply of 
the products or the services indicated in the 
contract; or (iii) possible malfunction or misuse 
of products. As many of the Group’s products 
are single–use devices, it is often impossible to 
conduct functional testing without destroying the 
product, and this increases the risk of possible 
product failure, either in use or during customers’ 
own sample–based functional tests. 
Substantial claims could harm the Group’s 
business and its financial position. In addition, 
any accident, failure, incident or liability, even if 
fully insured, could negatively affect the Group’s 
reputation among customers and the public, 
thereby making it more difficult for the Group to 
compete effectively.
Material breaches in the performance of 
contractual obligations may also lead to contract 
termination and the calling of performance bonds.
The businesses maintain rigorous control of their production processes, 
monitoring critical parameters on a batch or unit basis. State–of–the–art 
techniques, including statistical process control or Six Sigma, are applied 
and, where appropriate, processes are automated to reduce the scope 
for human operator error. Detailed assessments of incoming components 
and materials are conducted to ensure compliance with specifications.
Product liability claims from third parties for damage to property or 
persons are generally covered by the Group’s insurance policies, subject 
to applicable insurance conditions.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
38 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
RISkS AND IMPACTS kEy MITIGANTS
Management resource
The Group requires competent management 
to lead it through the next stage of its 
development. In challenging markets and 
difficult times, there is a need to retain and 
incentivise senior managers and key employees, 
in order to ensure that the operations of the 
Group do not suffer from loss of management 
expertise and knowledge.
As the shape of the Group’s business also 
changes, with an increased focus on electronics, 
there is a need to ensure that the businesses 
build an appropriate skill base to enable them 
to compete successfully in new markets and 
product areas.
A Group Human Resources Director was appointed during 2013, to 
oversee the future people strategy.
The Group has introduced a new performance management system for 
2014, which will facilitate improved monitoring of individual employees’ 
development objectives and requirements. Alongside this, a talent 
database is being developed, which will provide improved visibility on 
skills and resources across the Group, and will open up opportunities for 
employees to progress their careers within different parts of the Group.
Incentivisation arrangements have been streamlined and improved in 
certain areas of the business, to ensure that employees are suitably 
incentivised to deliver key strategic objectives.
Compliance and corruption risks
The Group operates in over sixty countries 
worldwide, in a highly–regulated environment, 
and is subject to the applicable laws and 
regulations of each of these jurisdictions. The 
Group must ensure that all of its businesses, its 
employees and third parties providing services 
on its behalf comply with all relevant legal 
obligations, as non–compliance could result in 
administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, and 
could expose the Group to fines, penalties, 
suspension or debarment, and reputational 
damage. 
The nature of the Group’s operations could also 
expose it to government investigations relating 
to import–export controls, money–laundering, 
false accounting, and corruption or bribery.
The Group has a central legal and compliance function which assists and 
monitors all Group businesses, supported by dedicated internal legal 
resource in the US. The Group’s internal audit activities also incorporate 
a review of legal risks. 
The Group operates under a Global Code of Business Principles, which 
stipulates the standard of acceptable business conduct required from all 
employees and third parties acting on the Group's behalf. The Group has 
also adopted a Bribery Act Compliance Manual, incorporating all of its 
anti–bribery policies and procedures.
A significant proportion of the Group’s management have received 
training in relation to ethics and anti–corruption.
39
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
RISkS AND IMPACTS kEy MITIGANTS
Environmental laws and 
regulations
The Group’s operations and ownership or use 
of real property is subject to a number of 
federal, state and local environmental laws 
and regulations, including those relating to 
discharge of hazardous materials, remediation 
of contaminated sites, and restoration of 
damage to the environment. 
At certain sites that the Group owns or operates, 
or formerly owned or operated, there is known 
or potential contamination for which there is a 
requirement to remediate or provide resource 
restoration. The Group could incur substantial 
costs, including remediation costs, resource 
restoration costs, fines and penalties, or be 
exposed to third–party property damage or 
personal injury claims, as a result of liabilities 
associated with past practices or violations of 
environmental laws or non–compliance with 
environmental permits.
All of the Group’s businesses are certified to the environmental 
management system ISO14001, which requires the setting of 
environmental goals and objectives focused on local aspects and 
impacts.
The Group has managed monitoring and remediation programmes at 
certain sites, for which appropriate financial provision has been made. 
In certain circumstances, the Group procures environmental liability 
insurance, subject to applicable insurance conditions.
financial risks
Details of the financial risks to which the Group 
is potentially exposed and details of mitigating 
factors are set out in the financial review and 
note 24 of the group financial statements.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
40 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Corporate responsibility review
The Group's approach 
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and 
maintaining the Group’s policies in this area, and the Chief 
Executive is accountable to the Board for ensuring that the 
Group’s businesses adhere to these policies.
The Board recognises that the long–term success of the 
Group will be enhanced by a positive interaction with all of its 
stakeholders, and has determined that the Group’s corporate 
responsibility initiatives should be focused on the following 
key areas:
• Health and safety
• Employee support and development
• Environmental protection
• Ethical business conduct
The Board intends that the Group's corporate responsibility 
approach will be fully embedded within its businesses, and 
the senior management bonus plan incorporates specific 
objectives in the above areas.
Further details of the Group's approach are set out below.
In the workplace
Health and safety 
Policy and practices
The Board recognises that the highest levels of safety are 
required in order to protect employees, product end users 
and the general public. The Board believes that all incidents 
and injuries are preventable, and that all employees have 
the right to expect to return home safely at the end of every 
working day. The long–term strategies the Group has adopted 
are designed to ensure that it continually improves its 
performance and reduces risk. 
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for health, 
safety and environmental matters across the Group. The 
Group Director of Safety reports directly to the Chief 
Executive, and is responsible for the effective administration 
and implementation of the Group’s health, safety and 
environment strategy. The Group Director of Safety is a 
member of the Group Executive Committee and reports on 
the performance of all businesses against agreed targets and 
objectives. The Chief Executive reports monthly to the Board 
on all key health and safety issues.
The Board requires that all businesses systematically manage 
their health and safety hazards, set objectives, monitor 
progress by regular measurement, audit and review, and take 
additional action where necessary. Each managing director 
is responsible for the management of health and safety 
within their business, and for providing adequate resources 
to satisfy the Board’s requirements. All managing directors 
have health and safety related objectives incorporated within 
their annual bonus plan. Managers in the Group's businesses 
are required to enforce procedures, and to provide leadership 
and commitment to promote and embrace a positive health 
and safety culture. The Board emphasises the importance of 
individual responsibility for health and safety at all levels of 
the organisation, and expects employees to report potential 
hazards, to be involved in implementing solutions, and to 
adhere to rules and procedures. 
A key element in the continual improvement of health and 
safety management is sharing best practice and lessons 
learnt from incidents across all of the Group’s businesses. 
Accidents, incidents and near misses are investigated, with 
actions generated to prevent recurrence. Compliance audits 
are conducted and all findings are subject to corrective action 
reviews to ensure closure.
With the exception of Mecar, all of the Group's businesses are 
certified to the international health and safety management 
system OHSAS18001. 
Culture and behaviour
In the last few years, the Group has made substantial 
investments in its manufacturing facilities to reduce the 
levels of risk. The Group continues to focus on ensuring 
that its buildings, processes and products are as safe as 
reasonably practicable for employees and product users, 
by driving improvements in process safety management 
systems, by investing in automation, remote operations and 
infrastructure, and also by improving risk control systems and 
asset integrity. 
In 2013, the Group developed a new culture and behaviour 
improvement programme based on industry best practice. 
This safety leadership programme will be delivered to all 
senior leaders, who will then develop individual business 
improvement programmes. The Board believes that the 
Group's leaders foster the culture by setting expectations, 
building structure, teaching others and stewarding results. 
The Group acknowledges its obligation to ensure the responsible 
operation of its business at all times, and is fully committed to 
sound and ethical business conduct in its interaction with key 
stakeholders (shareholders, employees, customers, business 
partners and suppliers), governments and regulators, communities 
and society, and the environment.
41
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Corporate responsibility review
It is expected that this additional focus on culture and 
behaviour will drive further improvements in the Group's 
overall safety performance.
Performance
Energetic events
Whilst the Group takes all incidents seriously, particular 
attention is paid to those where employees sustain injury 
due to an energetic event. One such incident occurred during 
the year, which resulted in three days of lost time when an 
operator received minor burns at the Kilgore facility in Toone, 
Tennessee.
There were no energetic events during the year that caused 
significant damage to buildings or equipment.
Other lost time events
The Group collects and reports lost time incident rates 
using the US Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
(OSHA) rules. In 2013, there was a disappointing reduction in 
performance from a rate of 0.80 lost time incidents per 100 
employees last year to 0.98 this year. 
The Group's historical lost time incident rate performance per 
100 employees is shown below:
2.00
1.50
1.00
0.50
0.00
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
The most common lost time injury types continue to be slips, 
trips and falls, and strains and sprains.
Employees
The Board recognises the valuable contribution that the 
Group’s employees continue to make to its success, and aims to 
provide a working environment that reflects and rewards this. 
The Group now has 3,693 (2012: 4,193) employees based in 
seven countries.
Employment practices
The Group’s policy is to provide equal opportunities for 
all employees, irrespective of race, nationality, gender, 
sexual orientation, marital status, religion or political belief, 
disability or age. The Group is committed to meeting, at a 
minimum, the labour rights and legislation requirements 
in each country in which it operates, and in practice, often 
exceeds these. The Group's employment practices policies 
are introduced at newly–acquired businesses at the earliest 
opportunity after they join the Group. 
Human rights
The Group does not have a stand–alone human rights policy 
but its practices and policies adhere to internationally 
recognised human rights principles.
Gender diversity
A breakdown by gender of the number of persons who 
are directors of the Company, senior managers and other 
employees is set out below.
The Board currently has two female members, and 
remains committed to a minimum of at least 25% female 
representation on the Board. The Board recognises the 
importance of promoting diversity across the Group. In 2013, 
Dr Janice Turner, an employee of Chemring Technology 
Solutions, won the science category at the Women of 
the Future Awards. The Women of the Future Awards 
acknowledge the inspirational women of tomorrow across 
diverse sectors. The science category was new for 2013, 
and recognises young female scientists who are forging new 
ground in research and scientific achievement.
Directors
Male (6) (2) Female
75% 25%
Senior managers
Male (53) (15) Female
78% 22%
All Chemring employees
Male (2,493) (1,200) Female
68% 32%
Ethnic diversity
White (3,081) (612) Non–white
83% 17%
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
42 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Development and training
The Group continues to address training and development 
requirements for employees at all levels within the 
organisation. All businesses consider training needs for their 
employees at a local level, in order to ensure that they have 
the right skill base to deliver their three year strategic plan. 
The Board also reviews future management requirements and 
succession plans on an ongoing basis. 
During the year, a Group–wide online performance 
management process was launched, which will standardise 
objective setting and performance classifications across the 
Group, as well as capturing personal development actions for 
employees. 
In the UK, Chemring Technology Solutions continues to 
operate successful undergraduate placement and graduate 
development programmes, which have received external 
recognition.
Benefits
The Group aims to provide all employees with an attractive 
and competitive benefits package. US employees receive 
health care, and the Group is continuing to monitor proposed 
legislative changes to ensure compliance with any revised 
obligations which may be imposed. In the UK, January 
2014 is the Group's staging date to comply with the pension 
scheme auto–enrolment legislation.
The Board is keen to encourage employees to join share 
schemes in order that they can share in the future success 
of the Group, and savings–related share plans are therefore 
offered to UK and US employees. 
Communications
The Group pursues a policy of employee communication 
through meetings (including team briefings and works 
councils) and in–house magazines by which employees are 
made aware of the progress of the Group and the companies 
in which they work. The businesses also engage their 
employees through representative bodies and trade unions. 
The Group has recently completed its first all–employee 
engagement survey, for which there was a 78% response rate. 
Results are now being cascaded across the Group and plans 
formulated in response to the feedback received.
A Group magazine, “chemring–i”, is published on a quarterly 
basis and distributed to all employees.
In the environment
Policy and practices 
All of the Group’s businesses are certified to the 
environmental management system ISO14001, which 
requires the setting of environmental goals and objectives 
focused on local aspects and impacts. In addition, 
expectations are set and performance is monitored across the 
Group. 
Land quality
The Chemring Energetic Devices (formerly Scot) facility, which 
is based in Downers Grove, Illinois, USA, is located on a site 
which has “superfund” status under the US contaminated 
land (CERCLA) regime. The business continues to work with 
external consultants and the regulatory authorities to ensure 
that its legal obligations in relation to this matter are fully 
satisfied. 
Mecar has been working with its local regulator in Belgium 
for some time to remediate historical contamination. It is 
anticipated that this will be an ongoing activity.
In addition, Simmel Difesa may become indirectly involved in 
proceedings related to environmental issues in the Colleferro 
region of Italy, where its principal manufacturing site is 
located.
The Group carries a £2.6 million provision in respect of 
pre–acquisition environmental liabilities, which the Board 
considers to be adequate (see note 25 of the group financial 
statements).
Incidents
There were no significant environmental incidents in the year.
Performance
Greenhouse gas emissions
The Group is required to report on all of the emission 
sources of entities that fall within its consolidated financial 
statements, as specified under the Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013. 
The Group does not have responsibility for any emission 
sources of entities which are not included in its consolidated 
financial statements. 
Absolute values have been converted to carbon dioxide 
equivalents using the UK Government Conversion Factors 
for Company Reporting 2013 produced by Ricardo–AEA. The 
reporting period covered aligns with the Group's financial 
year ended 31 October 2013. The Group has not reported on 
its Scope 3 emissions.
43
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Corporate responsibility review
Scope 1 emissions
Combustion of fuel in any premises, 
machinery or equipment operated, owned 
or controlled by the Group
Quantity 
(Mwh)
Conversion 
factor
CO
2
e 
(tonnes)
Gas 61,184 0.18404 11,260
Heating oil 1,641 0.28594 469
Liquid petroleum gas (LPG) 409 0.21452 88
The use of any means of transport, 
machinery or equipment operated, owned 
or controlled by the Group
Quantity
(tonnes)
Conversion
factor
CO
2
e
(tonnes)
Diesel 162 3.1885 517
Liquid petroleum gas (LPG) 113 1.4929 168
Petroleum 44 3.0058 132
The operation or control of any manufacturing process
CO
2
e
(tonnes)
On–site waste incineration 10,865
Fugitive emissions 909
Product testing 9
With reference to the six Kyoto substances, the Group does 
not emit hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons or sulphur 
hexafluoride. Values for carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous 
oxides are included in the above figures.
Scope 2 emissions
Purchased energy
Quantity 
(Mwh)
Conversion 
factor
CO
2
e 
(tonnes)
Electricity
 — Australia 1,001 0.84092 842
 — Belgium 6,451 0.21956 1,416
 — Germany 246 0.46089 113
 — Italy 2,261 0.40631 919
 — Norway 43,338 0.01669 723
 — UK 15,443 0.44548 6,880
 — USA 39,763 0.52225 20,766
Steam 20,903 0.21644 4,524
Total greenhouse gas emissions
Quantity 
(tonnes)
Scope 1 24,417
Scope 2 36,183
Total 60,600
■ Scope 1 Gas
■ Scope 1 Heating Oils
■ Scope 1 LPG
■ Scope 1 Vehicles
■ Scope 1 Waste incineration
■ Scope 1 Fugitive emissions
■ Scope 1 Product testing
■ Scope 2 Purchased electricity
■ Scope 2 Purchased steam
Sources of emissions 2013
The above greenhouse gas report uses conversion factors 
provided by the UK Environment Agency. The Group's past 
conversion methodology differed from this, and to aid 
comparison, the following data uses historic converters 
to display emissions from electricity, gas and oil in carbon 
dioxide equivalents:
Source
2013
(tonnes
CO
2
)
2012
(tonnes
CO
2
)
2011
(tonnes
CO
2
)
2010
(tonnes
CO
2
)
2009
(tonnes
CO
2
)
Electricity 43,244 44,576 46,459 38,303 36,334
Gas 11,437 13,630 14,676 14,033 12,512
Oil 6,229 5,726 7,222 3,111 2,008
Total 60,910 63,932 68,357 55,447 50,854
The Group uses sales revenue for intensity measurement, 
which it considers to be the most reliable comparator. The 
intensity progress for electricity, gas and oil over the last five 
years is shown below.
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Total emissions 
(tonnes CO
2
)* 60,910 63,932 68,357 55,447 50,854
Group revenue 
(£million)* 625 740 730 571 504
Tonnes CO
2
 
per £million of 
revenue 97 86 94 97 101
* Group revenue and emissions exclude in–year acquisitions
All UK facilities participate in the CRC Energy Efficiency 
Scheme, with the exception of Chemring Energetics UK at 
Ardeer in Scotland, which operates under a Climate Change 
Agreement.
The Group participated in the 2013 Carbon Disclosure 
Project.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
44 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Waste 
The Group's total waste generation increased during the year as a result of ongoing construction and renewal programmes.
2013
(tonnes waste)
2012
(tonnes waste)
2011 
(tonnes waste)
2010 
(tonnes waste)
2009 
(tonnes waste)
Recycled, non–hazardous 2,240 1,804 1,684 712 Not available
Recycled, hazardous 226 387 415 369 Not available
Not recycled, non–hazardous 1,080 1,028 1,018 1,161 Not available
Not recycled, hazardous 490 469 388 360 Not available
Total 4,036 3,688 3,505 2,602 1,876
Water
The Group's absolute water consumption varies each year within a narrow tolerance band, principally due to changes in product 
mix.
2013
(m
3
)
2012
 (m
3
)
2010 
(m
3
)
2010
 (m
3
)
2009
(m
3
)
Total water consumption 1,606,541 1,646,906 1,441,000 1,550,000 1,762,000
In the community
Helping others
The Board recognises that each of the Group’s businesses has 
an important role to play in its local community. 
The Board operates a charitable policy, which confirms its 
commitment to support selected charitable causes with a focus 
on the military and armed services, and those linked to the 
local communities in which the Group’s businesses operate. 
Each business has its own locally held charity budget, and at a 
Group level, charitable donations are considered on a monthly 
basis by the Executive Committee. The Group continues to 
sponsor the Red Devils and the UK Aerospace Youth Rocketry 
Challenge.
In addition to making cash donations, the Group also 
encourages and supports employees who undertake voluntary 
work in the local community, where appropriate. During the 
year , employees donated their time and services on a wide 
range of projects, several of which had an educational bias.
The Group is involved with a number of educational initiatives, 
notably including the sponsorship of various local schools. 
The Group has relationships with several universities, whereby 
funding is provided for students’ research activities.
Local impact
With regards to the impact of the Group's manufacturing 
activities on the local community, at locations where 
operations may inconvenience neighbours through product 
proofing, the businesses liaise with local residents to minimise 
any impact. The Group is also cognisant of the potential impact 
of its operations on the local environment, and is addressing 
this through its environmental strategy. 
In the marketplace
Policy on the Sale of Goods and Services
In recent years, the scope of the Group’s activities has 
broadened significantly, particularly with regards to the supply 
of components and sub–systems for various types of munitions. 
In addition, demand has increased for the supply of third party 
products to a number of customers. Consequently, the Board 
has adopted a Policy on the Sale of Goods and Services, which 
provides guidance to all stakeholders on the products and 
services that the Group will supply, to which customers and 
to which countries, and sets out a clear definition of what the 
businesses will not supply. All Group businesses are required to 
comply with this policy, which addresses both legal and ethical 
considerations with regards to certain products. The policy is 
reviewed and updated on a regular basis. 
Ethics and business conduct
The Group has adopted a Global Code of Business Principles, 
which requires its employees, its businesses and all third 
parties who act on the Group's behalf to comply with the 
Group's standards of acceptable business conduct and 
applicable laws and regulations in all of the countries in which 
the Group operates. 
Anti–bribery and corruption
Following implementation of the UK Bribery Act 2010, the Group 
adopted a Bribery Act Compliance Manual, which incorporates 
all of its anti–corruption policies and procedures. The Group's 
anti–bribery programme now incorporates the following:
• Requirements for bribery risk assessments to be carried out 
as part of normal operating procedures.
• Group–wide policies and procedures on the appointment of 
all sales partners and other third party advisers, stipulating 
due diligence and contractual requirements, approval levels, 
and monitoring and review processes.
• Regular training for management and employees working 
within commercial, sales and marketing, finance and human 
resource functions.
• Policies and procedures on the giving and receiving of gifts 
and hospitality.
The Group's US businesses have also adopted an ethical 
compliance programme to satisfy US Government 
requirements for ethical training for employees, compliance 
audits, a confidential reporting line for employees, and 
related investigation procedures. 
The Group has a whistleblowing policy and procedures in place 
which enable all employees to raise concerns, in confidence, 
about possible improprieties. These arrangements reflect the 
requirements of the UK Bribery Act 2010. 
45
www.chemring.co.uk
Governance Strategic report Financial statements Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
CREATIvE 
PRODUCT 
INNOvATION
CASe Study
CENTURION
t he innovative CeNtuRION launcher has 
had an excellent year, and continues to 
progress towards delivering a  
highly–capable and versatile system that 
has excellent utility across a range of 
platforms.
Conceived as a countermeasure launcher 
to introduce a step change improvement 
in naval anti–ship missile defence, the 
versatility of the CeNtuRION design has 
captured imagination. Already capable 
of firing both air countermeasures 
and anti–torpedo decoys, the system’s 
ability to deploy short range surface–to– 
surface missiles has taken the launcher 
to a new dimension, making it a truly 
multi–role ship protection system.
t his broad range of capability makes 
CeNtuRION suitable for ship classes 
ranging from patrol craft through to 
major vessels. with its low weight, 
simple installation requirements and an 
ability to be rapidly deployed, the system 
is ideally suited to protect less well 
defended ships. t his has significantly 
extended its potential market and has 
generated keen interest from around the 
globe.
t he past year has seen the completion of 
Phase 3 proving test firings, outstanding 
levels of customer and industry interest, 
including from the uk Ministry of 
defence and several NAt O navies, and 
completion of a proof–of–concept missile 
launch, underscoring its multi–role 
capability.
t he next stage of development will 
include design consolidation, software 
development and environmental testing, 
leading to a production standard system. 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Governance
Board of directors 48
Directors’ report  50
Corporate governance report 54
Directors’ remuneration report  64
Pictured Left: 
CENTURION® completed successful proof firings on Salisbury Plain. 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Board of directors
Name/Position/
Committee membership
Length of service on 
the Board
(as at 23 January 
2014) Experience Independent
Public board
experience
Operational
experience
International 
experience
Legal/M&A 
experience
Finance 
experience
Government/
regulatory 
experience Commentary
Peter Hickson
Non–Executive 
Chairman
Remuneration
Nomination (Chairman)
3 years 7 months • Finance experience from 
CFO positions
• Board experience at 
Chairman level
• Chartered Accountant
N/A ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Peter Hickson joined the Group as a non–executive director on 1 July 2010, and was appointed Chairman of the Board 
on 1 October 2010. Currently Chairman of Communisis plc, and a non–executive director of Coalfield Resources plc. He 
has had senior management experience with a number of large international companies, and previous appointments 
include Chairman of Anglian Water Group, Senior Independent Director of London & Continental Railways Ltd, Finance 
Director of Powergen plc and non–executive directorships of Scottish Power plc, Marconi Corporation plc, RAC plc and 
Kazakhmys plc. He is also a trustee and Board member of Orbis Charitable Trust, the international sight saving charity, 
and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Mark Papworth
Group Chief Executive
1 year 3 months • Extensive senior 
management experience 
in the servicing and 
manufacturing industries
• International experience
N/A ✓ ✓ ✓ Mark Papworth formerly worked at Wood Group plc, a leading FTSE 100 company, where he served as Chief Executive 
Officer of the Gas Turbines Services division from 2005 and also as an executive director on the Board from 2006. 
His career has covered high technology, service and manufacturing companies serving aerospace, energy and 
infrastructure markets. During his tenure at Wood Group, he implemented and delivered a strategic review, which 
resulted in a successful turnaround, improved manufacturing capabilities and substantial improvements in profitability.
Prior to his time at Wood Group plc, Mark spent two years as Executive Vice President of Rolls–Royce Energy, based 
in the USA, and thirteen years with Alstom Power in various roles, finally as Managing Director of the Industrial Gas 
Turbines division.
Steve Bowers
Group Finance Director
 1 year 1 month • Financial expertise
• Chartered Accountant
N/A ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Steve Bowers was appointed Group Finance Director on 7 January 2013. He was formerly Finance Director of  
Umeco plc until its acquisition by Cytec UK Holdings Limited in July 2012.
During Steve’s time with Umeco he was involved in both acquisitions and disposals, as well as in the management 
of financial reporting, treasury functions and banking relationships. Prior to his appointment as Finance Director of 
Umeco, he held a number of financial roles, alongside the role of Company Secretary.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG LLP and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accoutants.
Sarah Ellard
Group Legal Director & 
Company Secretary
2 years 4 months • Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Secretaries 
and Administrators
• Appointed Group 
Company Secretary in 
1998
N/A ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Sarah Ellard was appointed as Group Legal Director on 7 October 2011, having been Group Company Secretary since 
1998. Prior to joining the Group, Sarah trained and worked at Ernst & Young LLP. She is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. 
Nigel Young
Non–Executive 
Director
Audit (Chairman)
Remuneration
9 months • Previously Interim Chief 
Financial Officer of the 
Group from August 2012 
to January 2013
• Finance experience from 
CFO positions
• Chartered Accountant
✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Nigel Young became a non–executive director on 1 May 2013. This followed his appointment as Interim Chief Financial 
Officer in August 2012. Nigel was previously finance director of ALVIS PLC, First Technology PLC and Babcock 
International PLC. He was also Group Finance Director of the FTSE 250 company Morgan Advanced Materials plc, until 
he retired in 2004. Since then, Nigel has undertaken a number of charitable, interim and consultancy roles including 
roles with the UK Atomic Energy Authority and McBride PLC.
Nigel is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Andy Hamment
Non–Executive 
Director
Audit
Remuneration
7 months • Extensive knowledge of 
the defence industry
• Senior Board experience
✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Andy Hamment was appointed as a non–executive director on 1 July 2013. He is also a non–executive director of 
Senior PLC, and was previously Group Marketing Director and a main Board director of Ultra Electronics plc.
Andy has worked in the defence and manufacturing industries for most of his career, primarily in business development 
and management roles. He joined Dowty in 1988 as Managing Director of its Controls business, and participated in the 
management buy–out that created Ultra Electronics. 
Ian Much
Senior Independent 
Non–Executive Director
Audit
Remuneration 
(Chairman)
Nomination
9 years 2 months • Board experience at 
Chief Executive level
• Key shareholder 
representative
✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Ian Much joined the Group as a non–executive director in December 2004. He is Senior Independent Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Previous appointments include Chief Executive of De La Rue plc and  
T&N plc, and non–executive director of Admiral plc, Camelot plc, Manchester United plc and Simplyhealth Group Ltd. 
He is currently Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Senior plc, and non–
executive director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of BTG plc.
Vanda Murray 
OBE
Non–Executive 
Director
Audit
Remuneration
Nomination
2 years 3 months • Board experience at 
Chief Executive level
• Fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Marketing
✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Vanda Murray joined the Group as a non–executive director on 1 November 2011. She currently holds a portfolio of 
non–executive directorships, including Carillion plc, where she chairs the Remuneration Committee, The Manchester 
Airport Group plc, and Microgen plc. She also took up the role of Senior Independent Director of Fenner plc in January 
2012. Previous appointments include Deputy Chairman of the North West Regional Development Agency, non–
executive director of SIG plc, Chief Executive Officer of Blick plc, and UK Managing Director of Ultraframe PLC. She is a 
Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing, and in 2002 was appointed OBE for Services to Industry and  
to Export.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
48 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Name/Position/
Committee membership
Length of service on 
the Board
(as at 23 January 
2014) Experience Independent
Public board
experience
Operational
experience
International 
experience
Legal/M&A 
experience
Finance 
experience
Government/
regulatory 
experience Commentary
Peter Hickson
Non–Executive 
Chairman
Remuneration
Nomination (Chairman)
3 years 7 months • Finance experience from 
CFO positions
• Board experience at 
Chairman level
• Chartered Accountant
N/A ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Peter Hickson joined the Group as a non–executive director on 1 July 2010, and was appointed Chairman of the Board 
on 1 October 2010. Currently Chairman of Communisis plc, and a non–executive director of Coalfield Resources plc. He 
has had senior management experience with a number of large international companies, and previous appointments 
include Chairman of Anglian Water Group, Senior Independent Director of London & Continental Railways Ltd, Finance 
Director of Powergen plc and non–executive directorships of Scottish Power plc, Marconi Corporation plc, RAC plc and 
Kazakhmys plc. He is also a trustee and Board member of Orbis Charitable Trust, the international sight saving charity, 
and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Mark Papworth
Group Chief Executive
1 year 3 months • Extensive senior 
management experience 
in the servicing and 
manufacturing industries
• International experience
N/A ✓ ✓ ✓ Mark Papworth formerly worked at Wood Group plc, a leading FTSE 100 company, where he served as Chief Executive 
Officer of the Gas Turbines Services division from 2005 and also as an executive director on the Board from 2006. 
His career has covered high technology, service and manufacturing companies serving aerospace, energy and 
infrastructure markets. During his tenure at Wood Group, he implemented and delivered a strategic review, which 
resulted in a successful turnaround, improved manufacturing capabilities and substantial improvements in profitability.
Prior to his time at Wood Group plc, Mark spent two years as Executive Vice President of Rolls–Royce Energy, based 
in the USA, and thirteen years with Alstom Power in various roles, finally as Managing Director of the Industrial Gas 
Turbines division.
Steve Bowers
Group Finance Director
 1 year 1 month • Financial expertise
• Chartered Accountant
N/A ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Steve Bowers was appointed Group Finance Director on 7 January 2013. He was formerly Finance Director of  
Umeco plc until its acquisition by Cytec UK Holdings Limited in July 2012.
During Steve’s time with Umeco he was involved in both acquisitions and disposals, as well as in the management 
of financial reporting, treasury functions and banking relationships. Prior to his appointment as Finance Director of 
Umeco, he held a number of financial roles, alongside the role of Company Secretary.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG LLP and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accoutants.
Sarah Ellard
Group Legal Director & 
Company Secretary
2 years 4 months • Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Secretaries 
and Administrators
• Appointed Group 
Company Secretary in 
1998
N/A ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Sarah Ellard was appointed as Group Legal Director on 7 October 2011, having been Group Company Secretary since 
1998. Prior to joining the Group, Sarah trained and worked at Ernst & Young LLP. She is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. 
Nigel Young
Non–Executive 
Director
Audit (Chairman)
Remuneration
9 months • Previously Interim Chief 
Financial Officer of the 
Group from August 2012 
to January 2013
• Finance experience from 
CFO positions
• Chartered Accountant
✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Nigel Young became a non–executive director on 1 May 2013. This followed his appointment as Interim Chief Financial 
Officer in August 2012. Nigel was previously finance director of ALVIS PLC, First Technology PLC and Babcock 
International PLC. He was also Group Finance Director of the FTSE 250 company Morgan Advanced Materials plc, until 
he retired in 2004. Since then, Nigel has undertaken a number of charitable, interim and consultancy roles including 
roles with the UK Atomic Energy Authority and McBride PLC.
Nigel is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Andy Hamment
Non–Executive 
Director
Audit
Remuneration
7 months • Extensive knowledge of 
the defence industry
• Senior Board experience
✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Andy Hamment was appointed as a non–executive director on 1 July 2013. He is also a non–executive director of 
Senior PLC, and was previously Group Marketing Director and a main Board director of Ultra Electronics plc.
Andy has worked in the defence and manufacturing industries for most of his career, primarily in business development 
and management roles. He joined Dowty in 1988 as Managing Director of its Controls business, and participated in the 
management buy–out that created Ultra Electronics. 
Ian Much
Senior Independent 
Non–Executive Director
Audit
Remuneration 
(Chairman)
Nomination
9 years 2 months • Board experience at 
Chief Executive level
• Key shareholder 
representative
✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Ian Much joined the Group as a non–executive director in December 2004. He is Senior Independent Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Previous appointments include Chief Executive of De La Rue plc and  
T&N plc, and non–executive director of Admiral plc, Camelot plc, Manchester United plc and Simplyhealth Group Ltd. 
He is currently Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Senior plc, and non–
executive director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of BTG plc.
Vanda Murray 
OBE
Non–Executive 
Director
Audit
Remuneration
Nomination
2 years 3 months • Board experience at 
Chief Executive level
• Fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Marketing
✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Vanda Murray joined the Group as a non–executive director on 1 November 2011. She currently holds a portfolio of 
non–executive directorships, including Carillion plc, where she chairs the Remuneration Committee, The Manchester 
Airport Group plc, and Microgen plc. She also took up the role of Senior Independent Director of Fenner plc in January 
2012. Previous appointments include Deputy Chairman of the North West Regional Development Agency, non–
executive director of SIG plc, Chief Executive Officer of Blick plc, and UK Managing Director of Ultraframe PLC. She is a 
Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing, and in 2002 was appointed OBE for Services to Industry and  
to Export.
The structure of the Board
The Board consists of a balance of executive and non–executive directors who each  
bring a strong and in–depth mix of knowledge, business skills and experience to the 
Board’s deliberations.
49
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
The directors present their annual report, together with the 
audited financial statements of the Group and the Company, 
for the year ended 31 October 2013.
Business review
The strategic report on pages 2 to 45 provides a review of 
the Group’s business development, performance and position 
during and at the end of the financial year; its strategy and 
likely future development; key performance indicators; and 
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing 
the business. Further information regarding financial risk 
management policies and financial instruments is given in 
note 24 of the group financial statements. There have been 
no significant events since the balance sheet date, other than 
as referred to in note 41 of the group financial statements.
Results and dividends
The loss attributable to the Group’s shareholders for the year 
was £47.5 million (2012: £15.3 million profit). The directors 
recommend a final dividend of 3.8p per ordinary share which, 
together with the interim dividend of 3.4p per ordinary 
share paid in August 2013, gives a total for the year of 7.2p 
(2012: 9.5p). The final dividend is subject to approval by 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on  
20 March 2014, and accordingly has not been included as a 
liability in these financial statements.
Directors and their interests
The present directors are shown on pages 48 and 49.
Peter Norriss resigned as a director on 20 March 2013, and 
Roger Freeman resigned as a director on 31 December 2013.
Mark Papworth was appointed as a director on 5 November 
2012 and Steve Bowers was appointed as a director on  
7 January 2013. These directors sought reappointment 
under Article 87.1 of the Company’s Articles of Association  
at the last Annual General Meeting.
Nigel Young was appointed as a director on 1 May 2013 and 
Andy Hamment was appointed as a director on 1 July 2013. 
Both of these directors will be seeking reappointment under 
Article 87.1 of the Company’s Articles of Association at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, all 
directors are required to submit themselves for re–election 
every three years. However, in order to ensure compliance 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors now 
voluntarily submit themselves for re–election at every Annual 
General Meeting.
Details of the service contracts between the Company and the 
executive directors are set out in the directors’ remuneration 
report on page 72. The non–executive directors do not have 
service contracts with the Company.
The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity 
provisions for the benefit of its directors, which were in effect 
throughout the year and remain in force at the date of this 
report.
None of the directors had a beneficial interest in any contract 
of significance to which the Group was a party during the year 
ended 31 October 2013.
Information required as to directors’ shareholdings is set out 
in the directors’ remuneration report on page 82.
Substantial shareholdings
At 22 January 2014, the following substantial holdings in the 
ordinary share capital of the Company had been notified to 
the Company in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority:
Name % Interest
Invesco Limited 19.9
Investec Asset Management Limited 6.4
UBS Global Asset Management 5.5
Old Mutual Asset Managers 5.1
JP Morgan Chase & Co. 4.9
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 4.8
AXA S.A and its group of companies 4.8
Standard Life Investments Limited 4.6
Tameside MBC re Greater Manchester Pension Fund 4.2
Norges Bank 4.0
BT Pension Scheme Trustees Ltd as Trustees of  
 the BT Pension Scheme 3.8
Cantillon Capital Management LLC 3.6
Hermes Equity Ownership Services Ltd 2.9
Employees and employee consultation
Details of the Group’s employment policies and employee 
consultation practices are set out in the corporate 
responsibility review on pages 42 and 43. 
Political donations
No political donations were made during the year  
(2012: £nil).
Contractual arrangements
The Group contracts with a wide range of customers, 
comprising governments, armed forces, prime contractors 
and OEMs across the globe. The US Department of Defense 
is the largest single customer, and procures the Group’s 
products under a significant number of separate contracts 
placed with individual Group businesses.
The Group’s businesses utilise many suppliers across 
the world, and arrangements are in place to ensure that 
businesses are not totally reliant on single suppliers for key 
raw materials or components.
directors’ report
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
50 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Share capital and shareholder rights
General
The Company’s share capital consists of ordinary shares of 
1p each and preference shares of £1 each, which are fully 
paid–up and quoted on the main market of the London Stock 
Exchange. Full details of the movements in the issued share 
capital of the Company during the financial year are provided 
in note 27 of the group financial statements.
All holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak 
and vote at any general meeting of the Company and to 
appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise these rights. At a 
general meeting, every shareholder present in person, by 
proxy or (in the case of a corporate member) by corporate 
representative has one vote on a show of hands, and on a poll 
has one vote for every share held.
To decide who can attend or vote at a general meeting, 
the notice of meeting can give a time, which must not be 
more than forty eight hours before the meeting, by which 
shareholders must have been entered on the register in order 
to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
If a shareholder has been properly served with notice under 
section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”) requiring 
information about interests in shares, and has failed to supply 
such information within fourteen days after the service of the 
notice, then the shareholder is not entitled to attend and vote 
at a shareholder meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares 
in the capital of the Company, other than certain restrictions 
which may from time to time be imposed by law, for example 
insider trading law. In accordance with the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Conduct Authority, certain employees are required 
to seek the approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
The cumulative preference shares carry an entitlement to 
a dividend at the rate of 7p per share per annum, payable 
in equal instalments on 30 April and 31 October each year. 
Holders of the preference shares have the right on a
winding–up to receive, in priority to any other classes of 
shares, the sum of £1 per share together with any arrears of 
dividends.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of 
securities and/or voting rights.
The Company’s Articles of Association (the “Articles”) may 
only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of 
shareholders.
Issue of shares
Under the provisions of section 551 of the Act, the Board 
is prevented from exercising its powers under the Articles 
to allot shares without an authority in terms of the Act 
contained either in the Articles or in a resolution of the 
shareholders passed in general meeting. The authority, 
when given, can last for a maximum period of five years, but 
the Board proposes that renewal should be sought at each 
Annual General Meeting. An ordinary resolution, seeking such 
authority, will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting.
Section 561 of the Act requires that an allotment of shares 
for cash may not be made unless the shares are first offered 
to existing shareholders on a pre–emptive basis in accordance 
with the terms of the Act. In accordance with general practice, 
to ensure that small issues of shares can be made without the 
necessity of convening a general meeting, the Board proposes 
that advantage be taken of the provisions of section 571 
of the Act to not apply the Act’s pre–emptive requirements. 
Accordingly, a special resolution will be proposed at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting which, if passed, will have 
the effect of granting the directors the power to allot not more 
than 5% of the present issued ordinary share capital free of 
the requirements of section 561 of the Act. No issue of these 
shares will be made which would effectively alter the control of 
the Company without the prior approval of the shareholders in 
general meeting.
Purchase of own shares
The Company did not purchase any of its ordinary shares 
(2012: 1,215,000) during the year, and no ordinary shares 
(2012: 359,331) were distributed following vesting of awards 
under the Chemring Group Performance Share Plan. At 
31 October 2013, the Company held a total of 2,198,814 
ordinary shares in treasury (representing 1.1% of the ordinary 
shares in issue on 1 November 2013).
A special resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting to renew the Company’s authority to 
purchase its own shares in the market up to a limit of 10% of 
its issued ordinary share capital. The maximum and minimum 
prices are stated in the resolution. The directors believe that 
it is advantageous for the Company to have this flexibility to 
make market purchases of its own shares. The directors of the 
Company may consider holding repurchased shares pursuant 
to the authority conferred by this resolution as treasury 
shares. This will give the Company the ability to reissue 
treasury shares quickly and cost effectively, and will provide 
the Company with additional flexibility in the management 
of its capital base. Any issues of treasury shares for the 
purposes of the Company’s employee share schemes will be 
made within the 10% anti–dilution limit set by the Association 
of British Insurers. The directors will only exercise this 
authority if they are satisfied that a purchase would result in 
an increase in expected earnings per share and would be in 
the interests of shareholders generally.
51
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
directors’ report
The Chemring Group Performance Share Plan 
(the “PSP”)
The following conditional awards were made under the PSP 
during the year:
Date of awards
Total number of 
shares awarded
Number of 
participants 
receiving awards
21 November 2012 413,412 1
31 January 2013 1,260,059 27
27 June 2013 79,796 1
Total 1,753,267 29 
The Chemring Group Restricted Share Plan 
(the “RSP”)
The following deferred share awards were made under the 
RSP during the year:
Date of awards
Total number of 
shares awarded
Number of 
participants 
receiving awards
15 February 2013 542,032 34
The Chemring Group 2008 Uk Sharesave Plan 
(the “Uk Sharesave Plan”)
On 30 July 2013, options were granted over 222,874 
ordinary shares. Options over 2,577 ordinary shares were 
exercised during the year and options on 166,091 shares 
lapsed. Additional information is set out in note 31 of the 
group financial statements.
The Chemring Group 2008 US Stock Purchase 
Plan (the “US Stock Purchase Plan”)
On 30 July 2013, options were granted over 55,997 ordinary 
shares. No options were exercised during the year and 
options on 65,515 shares lapsed. Additional information is 
set out in note 31.
Approach to share ownership
The Group actively encourages its employees to share in the 
future success of the Group. The sixth annual grant of options 
under the UK Sharesave Plan and the US Stock Purchase 
Plan, which were both launched in 2008, took place during 
the year.
Going concern
Details of the conclusions arrived at by the directors in 
preparing the financial statements on a going concern basis 
are set out in the financial review on page 32.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law, the 
directors are required to prepare group financial statements 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs), as adopted by the European Union 
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, and have elected to 
prepare the parent company financial statements under 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. Under company 
law, the directors must not approve the accounts unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of 
the Company for that period. In preparing these financial 
statements, IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements 
requires that directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information;
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance; and
• make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as 
a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the 
Company’s transactions, disclose with reasonable accuracy 
at any time the financial position of the Company, and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company, and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
52 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Directors’ responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and 
profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole; 
• the strategic report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they 
face; and
• the annual report and financial statements, taken as a 
whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
Provision of information to auditors
Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report 
confirms that:
• so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; 
and
• the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have 
taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Close company provisions
As far as the directors are aware, the close company 
provisions of the Taxes Acts do not apply to the Group nor 
has there been any change in that respect since 31 October 
2013.
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditors will be 
proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting 
to be held on 20 March 2014, together with explanatory 
notes, appear in the separate Notice of Annual General 
Meeting sent to all shareholders.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 23 January 2014
Signed on behalf of the Board
Sarah Ellard 
Group Legal Director & Company Secretary
53
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Introduction by the Chairman
The Board is committed to upholding the highest 
standards on corporate governance, protecting and 
growing the shareholders’ assets, and engaging in a 
fair and transparent manner with all of the Group's 
stakeholders. The Board takes responsibility for approving 
the Group’s long–term goals and strategies, and provides 
overall financial and organisational control. The Board 
also ensures that the Group’s businesses have appropriate 
and effective internal control and risk management 
systems. 
The detailed report below sets out how the Company 
has applied the main and supporting principles of good 
governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 
issued in September 2012 by the Financial Reporting 
Council (the “Code”). I would like to draw your attention to 
some specific examples of how the principles relating to 
the role and effectiveness of the Board have been applied 
in particular areas of focus this year:
Composition of the Board
Following the resignations of the former Chief Executive 
and Finance Director during 2012, Mark Papworth was 
appointed as Chief Executive on 5 November 2012, 
and Steve Bowers was appointed as Finance Director 
on 7 January 2013. In recruiting the new executive 
management team, the Board was keen to ensure that 
the team would have the requisite skills and experience 
to deliver the recovery of the Group’s operational and 
financial performance, and to develop and oversee the 
future strategy for the Group. Whilst there is still much to 
do, the Board is pleased with the progress that has been 
made in these areas during the year. 
Nigel Young, who was Interim Chief Financial Officer 
between August 2012 and January 2013, was  
appointed to the Board as a non–executive director on  
1 May 2013 and became Chairman of the Audit 
Committee, succeeding Roger Freeman who retired 
from the Board on 31 December 2013. Nigel’s detailed 
knowledge of the Group’s businesses and their accounting 
systems is greatly assisting the activities of the Audit 
Committee in its oversight of the Group's financial 
controls and reporting. 
Peter Norriss retired from the Board at the Annual 
General Meeting in March 2013, after nine years’ service. 
In defining the requirements for his successor, the Board 
recognised that it would be beneficial to appoint another 
non–executive director with specific defence industry 
experience, and Andy Hamment, a former executive 
director of Ultra Electronics plc, was therefore appointed 
to the Board on 1 July 2013.
Setting of strategic aims
As referred to in the strategic report, the Board engaged 
in a comprehensive planning process towards the end 
of the financial year, which crystallised the strategy for 
the Group for the next three years. The process was 
particularly challenging on this occasion, given the need 
to realign the Group’s strategy against the background of 
continuing difficult market conditions, and lack of visibility 
on future requirements in the Group’s key markets. 
However, the Board now has a clear plan for delivering 
future shareholder value. 
Remuneration arrangements
In anticipation of the changes to the requirements 
for reporting on and seeking approval for executive 
remuneration arrangements, which came into effect in 
August 2013, the Remuneration Committee engaged in 
a significant amount of work this year in developing a set 
of remuneration principles, which will be presented to 
shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting 
in March 2014. As part of this process, Ian Much, the 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and I engaged 
with a number of our major shareholders to seek their 
feedback on the proposed principles. Further details are 
set out in the directors’ remuneration report. 
The Company has been in compliance with the provisions 
of the Code throughout the year ended 31 October 2013, 
with the exception that the performance evaluation of the 
Board has not been externally facilitated in the last three 
years. As indicated in last year’s corporate governance 
report, given the significant changes in the composition 
of the Board over the last two years, we will undertake 
an externally facilitated evaluation during 2014. In the 
meantime, we will continue to assess our performance and 
identify areas for future improvement, both in terms of 
the composition and effective operation of the Board. 
Peter Hickson 
Chairman
Corporate governance report
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
54 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
The Board
Composition and operation of the Board
The Board currently comprises three executive directors 
and five non–executive directors (including the Chairman). 
The Board considers all of the non–executive directors to 
be independent in judgment and character, and considered 
Peter Hickson to be independent on his appointment as 
Chairman. 
Although Nigel Young was employed as Interim Chief 
Financial Officer for a period of six months prior to his 
appointment as a non–executive director, the Board does not 
consider that this short period of employment impacted his 
independence and his contribution to the Board continues 
to be impartial and objective. Similarly, whilst Ian Much 
has now served as a non–executive director for a period of 
nine years and two months, he continues to fulfil both of 
his roles as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee in an unbiased and objective 
manner, and his experience remains very valuable to the 
Board. 
The directors’ biographical details are set out on pages 48 
and 49. 
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, all 
directors are required to submit themselves for re–election 
every three years. However, in order to ensure compliance 
with the Code, all directors will voluntarily submit themselves 
for re–election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board meets at least ten times a year, and has a 
formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for 
consideration and approval, including: 
• approval of the Group’s three year plan;
• approval of annual budgets; 
• approval of acquisitions, disposals and major capital 
expenditure; 
• approval of policies on financing and treasury, ethical 
matters, and health and safety; and 
• oversight of the Group’s systems of financial control and 
risk management. 
All directors take decisions objectively in the interests of the 
Company.
The Board delegates certain responsibilities to the Executive 
Committee, including: 
• implementation of the Group’s strategies and policies as 
determined by the Board; 
• monitoring of operational and financial results against 
budget; 
• allocation of resources across the Group within the overall 
plan approved by the Board; 
• approval of capital expenditure within limits imposed by the 
Board; and 
• developing and implementing risk management systems. 
Further information on the Executive Committee is set out in 
the section of this report covering Board committees.
The Board continually reviews the content and presentation 
of Board papers, to ensure that the directors have sufficient 
information to make expedient and considered decisions 
in fulfilment of their fiduciary duties. The adoption of an 
electronic portal for dissemination of information to the 
Board has resulted in more efficient communication and 
improved access for the Board to minutes and other records. 
Each director has full access to the advice and services of 
the Company Secretary who, under the direction of the 
Chairman, is responsible for maintaining good information 
flows within the Board and its committees; assisting with 
induction; keeping the directors informed about changes to 
their duties and responsibilities; and advising the Board on 
all governance matters. The appointment and removal of the 
Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
All directors are entitled to take independent professional 
advice in furtherance of their duties at the Company’s 
expense, should the need arise.
An internal induction programme on the Group’s operations 
and its strategic and business plans is provided for 
newly–appointed directors. The Company Secretary also 
provides detailed information on directors’ legal duties and 
responsibilities on appointment, and updates the Board on 
a regular basis with regards to regulatory changes affecting 
the directors and the Group’s operations generally. Directors 
are continually updated on the Group’s businesses and the 
matters affecting the market in which they operate. The 
Company meets the cost of appropriate external training for 
directors, the requirement for which is kept under review by 
the Chairman. 
The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance in respect of legal action against its directors. 
55
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Board activity throughout the year 
The Board receives reports from the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Legal Director and the Group 
Director of Safety as standing agenda items at every scheduled Board meeting. Details of the other principal activities 
undertaken by the Board during the year are set out below: 
Corporate governance report
November 2012
Consideration of market 
and shareholder feedback 
following withdrawal of 
bid approach and issue of 
trading updates
Review of draft budget for 
2013
Review of strategy for 
international joint ventures
Approval of integration 
of Chemring Sensors 
& Electronic Systems 
businesses 
December 2012
Consideration and 
approval of management 
reorganisation 
Consideration of potential 
business divestments
January 2013
Approval of 2013 budget
Approval of preliminary 
announcement and annual 
results
February 2013
Update on management 
reorganisation and business 
integrations
Discussion on current 
Board performance and 
opportunities for improving 
future effectiveness
Review of updated terms 
of reference for Board 
committees 
March 2013
Review of strategy for 
renegotiation of bank 
and note holder financing 
covenants 
April 2013
Discussion on the 
appointment of new  
non–executive directors
May 2013
Discussion on US 
organisation and legal 
requirements
Presentation and approval of 
new HSE strategy
Capital expenditure approval
June 2013
Approval of interim results
July 2013
Presentations from 
operational business heads 
Review of Policy on the Sale 
of Goods and Services
Review of strategic 
objectives
September 2013
Presentations from financial 
advisers on proposed 
business divestments
October 2013
Consideration and approval 
of trading update
Approval of 2014 budget
Review of three year plan 
and Strategic Planning 
Process
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
56 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Meeting attendance
The following table shows the attendance of directors, who served during the year, at scheduled meetings of the Board, the 
Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee:
Board
(11 meetings)
Audit Committee
(3 meetings)
Remuneration Committee
(6 meetings)
Peter Hickson (11) — (6)
Steve Bowers  
(appointed 7 January 2013) (9) — —
Sarah Ellard (11) — —
Roger Freeman  
(retired 31 December 2013) (11) (3) (6)
Andy Hamment  
(appointed 1 July 2013)  (3) (1) (2)
Ian Much (11) (3) (6)
Vanda Murray (11) (3) (6)
Peter Norriss  
(retired 20 March 2013) (5) (1) (2)
Mark Papworth  
(appointed 5 November 2012) (11) — —
Nigel Young  
(appointed 1 May 2013) (5) (2) (3)
The maximum number of meetings which each director could 
have attended is shown in brackets. 
In addition to the scheduled meetings, a further three ad hoc 
Board meetings and two ad hoc Remuneration Committee 
meetings were convened during the year to deal with matters 
arising between scheduled meetings. 
The Nomination Committee did not meet separately during 
the year, as the new appointments made during the year and 
related matters were dealt with by the Board as a whole.
The Chairman
The Company separates the roles of Chairman and Chief 
Executive in accordance with the recommendations of the 
Code. The division of responsibilities between the Chairman 
and the Chief Executive, and their respective job descriptions, 
are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
In addition to chairing the Board, the Chairman is 
responsible for ensuring that the Board is kept properly 
informed and is consulted on all decisions reserved to it; 
promoting constructive relations between the executive 
and non–executive directors; ensuring that the training 
and development needs of directors are identified and the 
performance of the Board is evaluated on a regular basis; 
ensuring effective communication with shareholders and 
acting as a conduit to ensure that the views of shareholders 
are communicated to the Board. The Chairman’s other 
business commitments, which are detailed on page 49, were 
fully disclosed to the Board prior to his appointment, and the 
Board is comfortable that he has sufficient time available to 
commit to his role.
Non–executive directors
The non–executive directors perform an essential role 
in safeguarding shareholders’ interests. They actively 
participate in the development of strategic objectives, and 
monitor the performance of executive management in 
achieving these objectives, in a constructively challenging 
manner where appropriate. The non–executive directors also 
review financial performance, and consider the integrity 
of the financial information produced by the Group and 
whether the financial controls and risk management systems 
are robust and defensible. They meet periodically with the 
management of the Group’s operating companies. In addition 
to participating in Board meetings, the four independent 
non–executive directors are the members of the standing 
committees set up to deal with audit and the remuneration 
of executive directors and senior management. The Board 
considers that the current balance of executive and  
non–executive influence which exists is appropriate for the 
Company, taking into account its size and status.
Ian Much served as the Senior Independent Director 
throughout the year.
During the year, the Chairman met regularly with the  
non–executive directors without the executives being present.
The non–executive directors have letters of appointment 
covering, amongst other items, their terms of appointment 
and expected time commitment. These letters of appointment 
usually provide for a three year appointment, unless 
terminated earlier by and at the discretion of either party 
upon three months’ written notice. Further details are set out 
in the directors’ remuneration report on page 73, and copies 
57
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
of the letters of appointment are available for inspection on 
request to the Company Secretary.
The papers accompanying the Notice of Annual General 
Meeting include a statement from the Chairman confirming 
that the performance of each non–executive director seeking 
re–election at the meeting continues to be effective and that 
each such director continues to demonstrate commitment to 
their role.
Board performance evaluation
The performance of the Board and its effectiveness are 
subject to periodic review by the Chairman. The Chairman 
and the non–executive directors consider the individual 
performance of the executive directors as part of the annual 
remuneration review, and the Chairman and the Chief 
Executive review the performance of the non–executive 
directors. Any weaknesses identified as a result of the 
individual performance evaluations are considered during the 
overall evaluation of the Board and addressed appropriately. 
There were a number of changes to the Board during 2012 
and 2013, which required the Chairman, with the assistance 
of the non–executive directors, to undertake a full evaluation 
of the performance of the Board and an assessment of 
the additional skills, experience and knowledge that would 
improve its future effectiveness. The evaluation of the current 
individual directors has confirmed that they all continue 
to contribute effectively to the operation of the Board and 
demonstrate full commitment to their respective roles. 
Given the various new appointments to the Board since 
2012, the Board did not consider that it would be beneficial 
to appoint an external adviser to assist with a formal 
performance evaluation during 2013, and this exercise will 
instead be undertaken during 2014. 
Diversity
The Board supports the principles set out in Lord Davies’ 
Review into Women on Boards published in February 2011, as 
reflected by the fact that the Board has two female members. 
The Board also recognises the importance of promoting 
diversity across the Group, and remains committed to a 
minimum of at least 25% female representation on the Board.
Board committees
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the 
Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee are 
posted on the Company’s website and are available on request 
from the Company Secretary.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises four independent  
non–executive directors. At the date of this report, the Audit 
Committee members were Nigel Young (Chairman), Andy 
Hamment, Ian Much and Vanda Murray. 
Nigel Young succeeded Roger Freeman as Chairman of the 
Audit Committee on 1 May 2013. Nigel acted as Interim Chief 
Financial Officer for the Company between August 2012 and 
January 2013, and was formerly Finance Director of Morgan 
Advanced Materials plc, ALVIS PLC, First Technology PLC and 
Babcock International PLC. The remaining members of the 
Committee have also served as executive directors of listed 
companies and as non–executive directors on other audit 
committees, and have extensive commercial and financial 
experience. The Board therefore considers that each member 
of the Audit Committee has the requisite recent and relevant 
financial experience to satisfy the requirements of the Code. 
The Audit Committee met three times during the year. The 
Committee operates within formal written terms of reference, 
which are available on the Company’s website, as referred to 
above. 
The Audit Committee report is set out on pages 61 to 63.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises five independent 
non–executive directors. At the date of this report, the 
Remuneration Committee members were Ian Much 
(Chairman), Andy Hamment, Peter Hickson, Vanda Murray 
and Nigel Young.
Six scheduled Remuneration Committee meetings were held 
during the year, together with two ad hoc meetings. Further 
details on the Remuneration Committee and its activities, and 
the Company’s policies on directors’ remuneration are set out 
in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 64 to 85.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises three independent 
non–executive directors. At the date of this report, the 
Nomination Committee members were Peter Hickson 
(Chairman), Ian Much and Vanda Murray.
Peter Hickson is Chairman of the Nomination Committee but, 
in accordance with the Committee’s terms of reference, is not 
permitted to chair meetings when the Committee is dealing 
with the appointment of his successor. As referred to above, 
the Committee’s terms of reference are available on the 
Company’s website.
With regards to the recruitment and appointment of a new 
non–executive director during the year, the Board considered 
the specific knowledge and expertise which was required to 
enhance the Board’s existing skill set. A brief was prepared, 
based on the Board’s conclusions, and The Zygos Partnership 
(who also handled the recruitment of Mark Papworth and 
Steve Bowers) were retained to identify appropriate external 
candidates. The Chairman and the Senior Independent 
Director interviewed a selection of short–listed candidates 
initially, and thereafter, preferred candidates were invited to 
meet with the Chief Executive and certain other members 
of the Board. Following completion of this process, Andy 
Hamment was invited to join the Board on 1 July 2013. 
His defence industry and international experience were key 
factors in the Board’s decision. 
Corporate governance report
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
58 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Executive Committee
The current members of the Executive Committee are:
• Mark Papworth (Group Chief Executive)
• Rik Armitage (Group Director – Strategy & Technology)
• Steve Bowers (Group Finance Director)
• Terry Bridgewater (Group Director of Safety) 
• Richard Dellar (Group Director – Sales & International 
Business Development)
• Jim Devine (Group HR Director)
• Sarah Ellard (Group Legal Director & Company Secretary)
• Michael Flowers (Group Director – European Munitions)
• Stephen Grinham (Managing Director – Chemring 
Technology Solutions) 
• Juan Navarro (President – Chemring North America) 
• Rupert Pittman (Group Director of Communications & 
Investor Relations)
Mark Papworth chairs the Executive Committee, which 
meets monthly. The Executive Committee is responsible for 
the executive day–to–day running of the Group, submission 
to the Board of strategic plans and budgets for the Group’s 
operations, and monitoring the day–to–day performance of 
the Group as a whole.
Relations with shareholders and other 
providers of capital
The Company maintains an active dialogue with institutional 
shareholders through regular briefing meetings and formal 
presentations following the release of interim and annual 
results. Meetings are usually attended by the Chief Executive 
and the Finance Director, although the Chairman and the 
Senior Independent Director did attend meetings with 
certain shareholders during 2013. The other non–executive 
directors are also offered the opportunity to meet with major 
shareholders and attend meetings if so requested by major 
shareholders. 
Communication with private investors is achieved largely 
through the medium of the interim report, interim 
management statements, and the annual report and 
accounts.
The Company’s website (www.chemring.co.uk) provides 
financial and business information on the Group.
The directors are provided with reports and other written 
briefings from the Company’s principal shareholders and 
analysts, and are regularly informed by the Company 
Secretary about changes to significant shareholdings.
It is the Company’s policy that all directors should attend 
and make themselves available to take questions from 
shareholders or address any concerns at the Annual General 
Meeting. At other times of the year, the directors can be 
contacted via the Company’s head office.
All substantial issues, including the adoption of the annual 
report and financial statements, are proposed on separate 
resolutions at the Annual General Meeting. In line with 
best practice guidelines, voting at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting will be conducted by way of a poll. This 
allows all votes to be counted, not just those of shareholders 
who attend the meeting. Poll results will be published on 
the Company’s website as soon as practicable following the 
conclusion of the meeting. The Notice of the Annual General 
Meeting is sent to shareholders at least twenty working days 
before the meeting.
In addition to issuing shares, the Company also finances its 
activities through external bank loans and by the issue of loan 
notes. The Board recognises the importance of maintaining 
good relationships with the providers of this capital, and the 
Chief Executive and the Finance Director brief the banks 
and note holders on a regular basis on the Company and 
its performance. The Board receives regular reports on any 
issues impacting these relationships. 
financial and business reporting
The statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the 
financial statements and accounting records maintained by 
the Company is set out on page 52.
Having taken all the matters considered by the Board and 
brought to the attention of the Board during the year into 
account, we are satisfied that the annual report and accounts 
for the year ended 31 October 2013, taken as a whole, is 
fair, balanced and understandable. Furthermore, the Board 
believes that the disclosures set out on pages 2 to 45 of the 
annual report provide the information necessary to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy. 
Internal control and risk management
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s systems 
of internal control, including financial, operational and 
compliance controls, and risk management systems.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Group’s 
systems of internal control and attaches considerable 
importance to these systems, which are designed to meet the 
Group’s particular needs and identify those risks to which it is 
exposed. However, the systems can only provide reasonable, 
not absolute, assurance against material misstatement, loss 
or mismanagement of the Group’s assets.
In carrying out its annual review of the effectiveness of 
the Group’s systems of internal control in compliance with 
provision C2.1 of the Code, the Board considered the 
following key features of the Group’s risk management 
systems and control procedures which operated during the 
year:
• The Board assesses the key risks associated with 
achievement of the Group’s business objectives as part of 
the annual strategic planning process. Following completion 
of this process, each business establishes a three year 
plan and annual budget, which are subject to approval 
by the Board. The performance of each business against 
59
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
budget and the prior year is reviewed on a monthly basis at 
both the operational management level and by the Board. 
Achievement of strategic business objectives and the 
associated risks are monitored by the Board on an ongoing 
basis.
• The Chief Executive, the Finance Director and other 
members of the Executive Committee attend review 
meetings with each of the businesses on a quarterly basis. 
In the case of the US businesses, formal Board meetings are 
also held quarterly, and these are attended by main Board 
directors and external non–executive directors appointed 
in the US. The US non–executive directors are available 
to provide guidance and monitor governance in the US 
businesses throughout the year. External non–executive 
directors are also appointed to the Boards of the Group’s 
Italian, Norwegian and Australian subsidiaries.
• Each business is required to comply with the Group’s 
accounting policy manual, which sets out formal procedures 
for incurring certain types of expenditure and making 
contractual commitments. Compliance with the accounting 
policy manual is audited by the internal auditors, who 
report regularly to the Audit Committee on their findings.
• The Board retains primary responsibility for acquisitions 
and disposals, and financing arrangements for the 
Group. Treasury management, IT strategy, insurance and 
significant legal matters are dealt with centrally from the 
Group head office, and the Board receives regular reports 
on each of these items. Reviews of the Group’s pensions, 
insurance and risk management arrangements are carried 
out by external advisers on a regular basis.
• The Group Director of Safety, supported by divisional 
health and safety management committees, co–ordinates 
and controls the activities of each business in relation to 
health and safety and environmental matters, which are a 
key focus for the Board in view of the nature of the Group’s 
operations. The Chief Executive is the Board member 
nominated with specific responsibility for health and safety. 
The Chief Executive meets formally with health and safety 
professionals from each business on an annual basis.
• The Group has implemented a Bribery Act compliance 
manual incorporating its anti–bribery policies and 
procedures. 
The Group’s Risk Management Committee meets on a 
quarterly basis. At the date of this report, the members 
of the Risk Management Committee were Mark Papworth 
(Chairman), Steve Bowers, Terry Bridgewater, Sarah Ellard, 
Michael Flowers, Stephen Grinham and Juan Navarro. 
The Committee reviews the key risks associated with the 
achievement of the annual budget and the three year plan for 
each business, and the risk control procedures implemented. 
It also considers the top health and safety risks which have 
been identified at each site and agrees the action plan to 
address these. The Risk Management Committee reports 
biannually to the Audit Committee and the Board on the top 
risks from a Group perspective, and monitors the actions 
being taken to mitigate these.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of 
the Group’s systems of internal control and risk management 
which were in place during the financial year ended  
31 October 2013, and it confirms that systems of internal 
control and risk management compliant with the Code and 
the Turnbull Guidance were in place throughout the year and 
have remained in place up to the date of approval of these 
financial statements. Notwithstanding this, the Board will 
continue to take steps to embed internal control and risk 
management further into the operations of the Group and 
to deal with any areas of improvement which come to the 
attention of management and the Board.
Procedures to deal with directors’ conflicts of 
interest
All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 (the 
“2006 Act”) to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can 
have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or may possibly 
conflict with the interests of the Company. The Company’s 
Articles of Association include provisions for dealing with 
directors’ conflicts of interest in accordance with the 2006 
Act. The Company has procedures in place to deal with 
situations where directors may have any such conflicts, which 
require the Board to:
• consider each conflict situation separately on its particular 
facts;
• consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest 
of their duties under the 2006 Act;
• keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations 
granted by directors and the scope of any approvals given; 
and
• regularly review conflict authorisation.
Going concern
Details of the conclusions arrived at by the directors in 
preparing the financial statements on a going concern basis 
are set out in the financial review on page 32. 
Corporate governance report
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
60 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Audit Committee report
Annual statement by the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee
I assumed the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee on  
1 May 2013, having taken over from Lord Freeman, who 
had undertaken the role for the previous seven years.
I believe that the Audit Committee has a very important 
role to play in the governance of the Group’s financial 
affairs, and I am committed to ensuring that we apply 
the requisite oversight to the Group’s internal controls 
and risk management systems, and that we maximise the 
effectiveness and assurance that can be derived from our 
external and internal audit activities.
During my short tenure as the Group’s Interim Chief 
Financial Officer, I gained a very valuable insight into 
the strengths and potential weaknesses of our current 
financial systems, and the different challenges faced by 
the businesses. I am confident that this will assist the Audit 
Committee with its governance role over the next few 
years.
 
Nigel Young 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Operation of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the Group’s 
financial statements and the effectiveness of the external 
audit process. It is responsible for ensuring that an 
appropriate relationship between the Group and the external 
auditors is maintained, including reviewing non–audit 
services and fees. The Committee keeps under review the 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls and financial 
risk management systems, and on an annual basis, considers 
the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function. 
The Committee is authorised to seek any information it 
requires from any employee of the Company in order to 
perform its duties, and to obtain any outside legal or other 
professional advice it requires at the Company’s expense.
The Committee reviews annually its terms of reference and 
its effectiveness, and recommends to the Board any changes 
required as the result of such review.
Meetings
Meetings of the Committee are attended, at the invitation 
of the Chairman of the Committee, by the external auditors, 
the Chairman of the Board, the Finance Director and 
representatives from the Group finance and internal audit 
function. The Committee meets with the auditors on a regular 
basis without the executive directors being present. The 
Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and 
minutes of meetings are circulated to all Board members.
The Audit Committee plans to meet four times in the current 
financial year. 
Principal activities of the Audit Committee during the year 
January 2013
Review of the Group’s preliminary 
announcement and annual results for 
the year ended 31 October 2012
Consideration of the auditor’s report 
on the results of their full year audit
Review of the Group’s revenue 
recognition and contract accounting 
policies and procedures 
Goodwill impairment review
Consideration of the Group’s going 
concern status
Review of the internal control 
environment and the auditor’s 
observations thereon
Consideration of the internal auditor’s 
report
June 2013
Review of the Group’s half year results
Consideration of the auditor’s report 
on the results of their interim review
Review of the Group’s revenue 
recognition and contract accounting 
policies and procedures 
Goodwill impairment review for 
acquired businesses
Consideration of accounting treatment 
of non–underlying items of expenditure
Consideration of updated segmental 
reporting
Review of the internal control 
environment and the auditor’s 
observations thereon
Presentation from the Group Legal 
Director on the Group’s Bribery Act 
compliance programme
September 2013
Consideration of report from the 
Finance Director on topical issues
Review and approval of the Group’s 
future tax strategy
Review of policy on the provision of 
non–audit services by the external 
auditors
Review of the Group’s risk 
management systems and reporting
Consideration of the auditor’s plan for 
the full year audit
Reappointment of the auditors and 
approval of their fees
Consideration of the internal auditor’s 
report
61
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Significant issues considered by the Audit Committee during the year
Revenue recognition  
and contract  
accounting policies  
and procedures
The Committee reviewed the Group’s revenue recognition and contracting accounting policies 
and procedures, to ensure that they remained appropriate and that the Group’s internal 
controls were operating effectively in this area. Advice was also sought from the external 
auditors. The Committee considered a detailed analysis of the key assumptions made on the 
contract accounting treatment of those contracts which had a material impact on the Group’s 
results for the year ended 31 October 2013, and concluded that these were reasonable and 
appropriate. 
 
Impairment of goodwill and 
other intangible assets
In January 2013, the Committee considered a paper prepared by management on their review 
of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets as at 31 October 2012, against updated 
forecasts for each of the relevant businesses. In view of the difficult trading conditions facing 
a number of the Group’s businesses, an updated methodology was adopted for impairment 
testing, which included a sensitivity analysis based on further significant deteriorations in 
defence budgets in key markets. As a consequence of this review, the Committee concurred 
that it would be appropriate to recognise an impairment loss of £6.8 million in relation to 
Chemring Ordnance at the 2012 year end and £15.7 million in relation to Chemring Energetic 
Devices. The Committee also agreed that it would be appropriate to include a note in the 
2012 financial statements on a possible future impairment charge in relation to Hi–Shear 
Technology Corporation.
In June 2013, the Committee considered an updated impairment review and concluded that 
it would be appropriate to recognise a further impairment loss of £15.7 million in relation to 
Chemring Energetic Devices in the half year results. 
Going concern In order to satisfy itself that the Group has sufficient financial resources to enable it to 
continue trading for the foreseeable future, the Committee regularly reviews the adequacy 
of the Group’s financing facilities against future funding requirements and working capital 
projections. The Committee received regular reports from the Finance Director on the Group’s 
financial covenant compliance position throughout the year, and was kept closely informed 
on the progress of discussions with the Group’s banks and loan note holders regarding the 
renegotiation of the covenants which was completed in June 2013. 
Based on its review of the Group’s forecasts and detailed discussions with the external 
auditors, the Committee recommended to the Board the adoption of the going concern basis 
for the preparation of both the 2012 financial statements and the 2013 interim results.
Further details on the Group’s going concern status can be found in the financial review on 
page 32.
 
Segmental reporting In the first half of 2013, the Committee considered management’s recommendations on an 
updated segmental reporting format to reflect the Group’s new management and operational 
structure, and concurred that the proposed changes were appropriate.
Corporate governance report
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
62 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
External auditors
The Audit Committee is responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board on the appointment,  
reappointment and removal of the Company’s external 
auditors. The Committee also undertakes an annual 
assessment of the auditors’ independence and objectivity, 
taking into account relevant professional and regulatory 
requirements and the relationship with the auditors as a 
whole, including the provision of any non–audit services.
Audit effectiveness and tendering
Deloitte LLP have been the Company’s auditors for many 
years, and were reappointed at the last Annual General 
Meeting in March 2013. During the year, the Committee 
agreed with Deloitte LLP that, in view of the various changes 
which had occurred within the Group, it would also be 
beneficial for a new Audit Partner to be appointed to bring 
a new perspective to the audit function. Accordingly, after a 
managed handover, Anna Marks succeeded Nigel Mercer on 
the engagement in May 2013. 
In the opinion of the Committee, the relationship with the 
auditors currently works well, and having reviewed their 
independence and effectiveness, the Committee has not 
considered it necessary to date to require Deloitte LLP to 
re–tender for the audit work. Accordingly, the Committee has 
recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be proposed for 
reappointment as auditors at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting.
The Committee acknowledges the new recommendation in 
the Code that the external audit contract should be put out 
to tender at least every ten years. The appointment of the 
new Audit Partner in 2013 has provided fresh oversight of 
the audit process. Given this change, the Committee will keep 
under review the timing of its next tender process but does 
not currently intend that the audit will be put out to tender 
during 2014.
In assessing the effectiveness of the external auditors during 
the year, the Committee reviewed:
• the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors’ 
independence and objectivity;
• the external auditors’ fulfilment of the agreed audit plan 
and any variations from the plan;
• the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their 
handling of the key accounting and audit judgments; and
• the content of the external auditors’ reporting and internal 
control.
There are no contractual or similar obligations to restrict the 
choice of external auditors.
Auditor independence
The Committee keeps under review the level of any  
non–audit services which are provided by the external 
auditors, to ensure that this does not impair their 
independence and objectivity. 
The Committee has adopted a policy which states that the 
external auditors should not be appointed to provide any 
corporate finance or similar consultancy services, unless the 
Committee agrees that their appointment would be in the 
best interests of the Company’s shareholders in particular 
circumstances and would not create any direct conflict with 
their role as external auditors. 
The policy does permit the provision of tax advisory services 
by the auditors, provided that the provision of such advice 
does not conflict with the external auditors’ statutory 
responsibilities and ethical guidance. 
During the year, Deloitte LLP provided the following 
additional services to the Group:
• tax compliance services relating to corporation tax 
returns and other overseas regulatory tax returns;
• tax advisory services relating to advice given on the 
Group's tax structures; and
• corporate finance services relating to various proposed 
financial transactions, where the auditors are considered 
best placed to perform these services.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during 
the year for audit and other services are set out in note 6 to 
the group financial statements.
The Committee, in conjunction with the Finance Director, 
ensures that the Group maintains relationships with a 
sufficient choice of appropriately qualified alternative audit 
firms for the provision of non–audit services. 
Internal audit
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the 
work undertaken by the Group’s internal audit function, 
assessing the adequacy of the internal audit resource, and 
recommending changes for increasing the scope of the 
internal audit activities.
The Group’s internal audit programme incorporates an annual 
rolling review of all businesses, and focuses on both financial 
and non–financial controls and procedures. The Committee 
approves the annual internal audit plan and receives regular 
reports from the internal auditors.
The Committee considers that the Group’s current internal 
audit resource is appropriate, given the size of the Group, but 
will continue to monitor the position closely.
63
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Dear shareholder
As you will be aware, 2013 was another challenging year for the Group, with a change of both Chief Executive and 
Finance Director, sharp reductions in military budgets throughout our NATO markets, rapid destocking of consumables - 
which make up much of our sales - as troops withdrew from conflict areas such as Afghanistan, and the US Government 
shutdown as we approached our year end.
At the time of the appointment of the new Chief Executive and Finance Director, we made a number of temporary 
changes to our remuneration arrangements to reflect the uncertainties which they inherited and the fact that, in their 
first year, they would be operating under a budget, the preparation of which they had had no part in. For the current 
year beginning 1 November 2013, we are returning to a more conventional policy and I summarise the key changes 
below.
• The structure of the bonus plan was changed in 2013 from a 75%/25% split between financial measures and personal 
objectives to a 60%/40% split between the same metrics. This was to reflect the uncertainties in the integrity of the 
Group’s budget, and to reflect the number of key, short–term actions which were required to be completed during 
2013, to reposition the Company going forward. In addition, Mark Papworth and Steve Bowers were guaranteed 
a minimum bonus in their first year equivalent to 50% of base salary because of the uncertainties outlined above 
and the need to attract strong replacements over a very short period of time. The circumstances surrounding the 
appointment of these two executive directors were exceptional and this was fully disclosed to shareholders in last 
year’s remuneration report. 
• Mark Papworth and Steve Bowers will receive their guaranteed minimum bonuses for 2013 (with Steve Bowers’ bonus 
being prorated to reflect his January 2013 start date) and Sarah Ellard (Group Legal Director & Company Secretary) 
will receive a below–target bonus of 36% of salary. 40% of the payouts will be deferred in shares for three years. 
The actual bonus payments due to the executive directors for 2013 are set out on page 77 of the remuneration 
report.  
• In 2014, the weighting on financial measures in the annual bonus will be increased, with a requirement for 
achievement of threshold financial measures before any element of the personal objectives can become payable. The 
financial targets will again be based on a mix of earning per share (“EPS”) and cash flow. The personal objectives will 
be measurable and consistent with the Group’s longer–term goals. Details of the personal objectives and performance 
against them will be disclosed retrospectively in the 2014 annual report.
• When granting performance share plan awards to both the new executive directors and other senior executives 
in 2013, the Committee did not feel that they could set sufficiently robust three year EPS targets because of the 
uncertain conditions at that time and therefore absolute share price targets were set. The policy for 2014 and 
beyond will be to use two metrics, namely growth in underlying EPS and relative total shareholder return (“TSR”) 
measured against an international peer group of defence sector companies. These measures have been selected by 
the Remuneration Committee as they are aligned to the success of the Group’s recovery. EPS is a measure of the 
Group’s overall financial success and TSR provides an external assessment of the Company’s performance against 
companies of a similar size and complexity. TSR also aligns the rewards received by executives with the returns 
received by shareholders. Each will determine the vesting of 50% of the 2014 awards. 25% of each part of the award 
will vest for threshold or median performance, with full vesting of each part of the award for stretch or upper quartile 
performance. The EPS performance targets for 2014 have not yet been determined but in accordance with our normal 
practice, will appropriately reflect market expectations for the Company at the time of grant, as well as our own 
internal expectations. The performance targets will be disclosed in the relevant RIS announcement when the awards 
are granted. 
• In reviewing the salaries of Mark Papworth and Steve Bowers for 2014, the Committee was cognisant of the 
circumstances which prevailed at the time of their recruitment in late 2012. We were very much aware that the 
condition of the Company at that time, combined with the deteriorating market conditions within the defence industry, 
meant that the Company was facing an extremely challenging and complex few years. Mark and Steve were selected 
as we believed that they had the drive and character to deliver the recovery which the Company required. However, 
we were aware of their relative inexperience and decided to adopt the principle outlined in our remuneration policy 
directors’ remuneration report
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
64 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Remuneration policy
This report sets out the information required by Part 4 of Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended). The report also satisfies the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules 
of the Financial Conduct Authority, and describes how the Board has applied the principles and complied with the provisions 
relating to directors’ remuneration in the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
The Remuneration Committee has been established by the Board and is responsible for executive remuneration. The 
Committee’s terms of reference are available in full on the Company’s website or from the Company Secretary on request.
In determining remuneration for the executive directors and other senior managers, the Remuneration Committee seeks to 
maintain a competitive package of rewards, which enables the Company to attract and retain the highest calibre of executive, 
without being excessive by reference to market rates across comparator companies. Performance–related elements form 
a significant proportion of the total remuneration package of each executive director, and take into account the individual 
contribution of each executive and the performance of the business against financial objectives, details of which are set out 
below. These variable elements are designed to align the interest of executives with shareholders, by ensuring that a significant 
proportion of remuneration is performance–related and delivered in shares. 
The table below summarises the Committee’s policy for the remuneration of executive directors, which, if approved by 
shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, will become binding immediately thereafter. Further details of the full policy 
are set out below the table on pages 66 and 67. 
of bringing them in below market rate, with a view to reviewing progress and bringing them up to that level when 
appropriate. Against this background and acknowledging the tremendous progress made in addressing the underlying 
issues facing the Company in their first year, Mark Papworth’s salary has been increased by 5.6% to £475,000 and 
Steve Bowers’ salary has been increased by 9.1% to £300,000. Sarah Ellard’s salary has been increased by 3.1% to 
£216,500, in line with the general level of increases received by other employees. 
 
Now that the increased salaries are considered by the Committee to represent the correct level for each role, the 
Committee anticipates that these salaries will be increased in line with those of the general workforce for the next few 
years.
• In 2014, we are also amending our policy on paying dividend equivalents on vested performance share plan awards 
and deferred bonus share awards. Currently, participants do not receive the value of dividends on their awards, and 
in order to increase alignment with shareholders and bring our arrangements into line with market practice, dividend 
equivalents will be paid on vested performance share plan awards and deferred bonus share awards granted from 
2014.
Since the start of the current financial year I have discussed these changes with a number of our largest shareholders 
and the Committee has listened carefully to their comments. We welcome feedback from all interested parties and 
hope that you are able to support our policy and the way in which it has been applied in the year at the Annual General 
Meeting on 20 March 2014.
Ian Much 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
65
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
directors’ remuneration report
Element
Purpose and 
link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance assessment
Salary • Reflects the performance of the individual, their skills and 
experience over time, and the responsibilities of the role
• Provides an appropriate level of basic fixed income, avoiding 
excessive risk arising from over reliance on variable income
• Reviewed annually on 1 January
• Benchmarked periodically against companies with similar 
characteristics and companies within the same sector
• Salaries take account of complexity of the role, market 
competitiveness, Group performance and the increases awarded 
to the wider workforce
• Salary increases will normally be in line with those received by the wider 
workforce
• More significant increases may be awarded at the discretion of the 
Committee, for example where there is a change in responsibilities, to 
reflect individual development and performance in the role
• None, although overall individual performance is a factor considered when 
setting and reviewing salaries
Bonus • Incentivises annual delivery of financial, strategic and personal 
goals
• Maximum bonus only payable for achieving demanding targets
• Delivery of a proportion of bonus in deferred shares provides 
alignment with shareholders and assists with retention
• Allowing executives to receive, on vesting, the value of dividends 
which accrue on deferred shares helps align executives’ rewards 
with shareholders’ interests
• Paid in cash, with up to 40% deferred as a conditional award of 
shares
• Vesting of deferred shares is subject to continued employment 
(save in “good leaver” scenarios) at the end of three years from 
the award of the bonus
• The payment of any earned bonus remains ultimately at the 
discretion of the Committee
• Non–pensionable
• Executives are entitled to receive, on vesting of deferred share 
awards, the value of dividend payments that would otherwise have 
been paid on the deferred shares during the deferral period
• Chief Executive – 125% of salary 
• Other executive directors – 100% of salary
• Mix of Group financial objectives and personal objectives – financial 
performance targets will determine the majority of the award and will 
typically include measures such as EPS and cash flow, although the 
Committee has discretion to set other targets
• Personal objectives will be measurable and linked to goals that are 
consistent with the Group’s longer–term goals
• No bonus will be paid in respect of any element unless threshold financial 
performance targets have been achieved
• Performance below threshold results in zero payment. Payment rises from 
0% to 100% of the maximum opportunity for levels of performance between 
threshold and maximum with 50% of the maximum payable for on–target 
performance
• The Committee has discretion to reduce (potentially to zero) any bonus 
payout based on its assessment of the health and safety performance of 
the Group or an individual business within the Group
• Includes a clawback mechanism in the event of a material misstatement of 
the Group’s financial results
Long–term 
incentive plan 
(performance 
share plan – 
“PSP”)
• Incentivises executives to achieve targets aligned to the Group’s 
main strategic objectives of delivering sustainable growth and 
shareholder returns
• Allowing executives to receive, on vesting, the value of dividends 
(in cash or shares) which accrue on deferred shares helps align 
executives’ rewards with shareholders’ interests
• Annual grants of shares, which vest subject to the Group’s 
performance measured over three years 
• Executives are entitled to receive the value of dividend payments 
that would otherwise have been paid on vested awards
• All awards are subject to the discretions given to the Committee in 
the plan rules during the vesting period
• Normally 150% of base salary (although grants up to 200% of base salary 
may be made in exceptional circumstances such as on recruitment)
• Awards made prior to 2014 are based on the conditions described on  
page 81 of this report
• Awards from 2014 onwards will be subject to targets based on EPS growth 
and relative TSR vs a peer group of international defence sector companies. 
For the awards to be granted in 2014, each measure will determine the 
vesting of 50% of the award; however, the Committee will have discretion to 
set different weightings for awards in future years
• Targets for the EPS condition are set by the Remuneration Committee prior 
to each grant. Targets for the relative TSR condition are based on a sliding 
scale, with median representing threshold performance and upper quartile 
representing maximum performance
• For each measure, performance below threshold results in zero payment. 
Payment rises from 25% to 100% of the maximum opportunity for that 
measure for levels of performance between threshold and maximum
• Includes a clawback mechanism in the event of a material misstatement of 
the Group’s financial results
All–employee 
share 
schemes
• All employees, including executives, are encouraged to acquire 
shares by participating in the Group’s all–employee share plans – 
the UK Sharesave Plan and the US Stock Purchase Plan 
• The UK Sharesave Plan and US Stock Purchase Plans have 
standard terms 
• Under the UK Sharesave Plan (the scheme applicable to the 
current executive directors), participants can enter into a savings 
contract, in return for which they are granted options to acquire 
shares at a discount to the market value of the shares at the start 
of the performance period
• The rules for the UK Sharesave Plan were approved by 
shareholders at the 2008 Annual General Meeting
• Participation limits are those set by the relevant tax authorities from time 
to time
• N/A
Pension • Provides modest retirement benefits that reward sustained 
contribution
• Defined benefit scheme until 6 April 2010, in which pension at a 
rate of 1/80th of final pensionable salary plus a cash lump sum of 
3/80ths accrued for each year of membership. Final pensionable 
salary was capped at the HMRC notional earnings cap, and the 
scheme assumed a normal retirement age of 65. The scheme is 
now closed to future accrual
• Cash supplement after 6 April 2010, subject to auto–enrolment in 
the Group Stakeholder Scheme from 1 January 2014
• Post 6 April 2010 – 20% of base salary cash supplement paid in lieu of 
occupational pension scheme membership
• However, from 1 January 2014, all UK employees, including the executive 
directors, are subject to auto–enrolment into the Group’s defined 
contribution stakeholder scheme, with an employer contribution of 4% 
of base salary. If executives do not opt out of this scheme, their cash 
supplement will be reduced by 4%
• N/A
Other benefits • Provides a competitive package of benefits that assists with 
recruitment and retention 
• Main benefits currently provided to UK executives are a fully–
expensed company car or car allowance, life assurance, permanent 
health insurance and private medical insurance
• Company car up to an annual lease cost of £12,000 or cash allowance of  
up to £25,000 per annum
• Other benefits will be in line with market. The value of each benefits is 
based on the cost to the Company and is not pre–determined
• N/A
Notes:
1.  A description of how the Company intends to implement the policy set out in this table for 2014 is set out in the annual report on remuneration on pages 76 
and 77. The remuneration policy for the executive directors and other senior executives is designed with regard to the policy for employees across the Group 
as a whole. However, there are some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for senior executives. In general, these differences arise from the 
development of remuneration arrangements that are market competitive for the various categories of individuals. They also reflect the fact that, in the case of 
the executive directors and senior executives, a greater emphasis tends to be placed on performance–related pay in the market. 
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
66 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Element
Purpose and 
link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance assessment
Salary • Reflects the performance of the individual, their skills and 
experience over time, and the responsibilities of the role
• Provides an appropriate level of basic fixed income, avoiding 
excessive risk arising from over reliance on variable income
• Reviewed annually on 1 January
• Benchmarked periodically against companies with similar 
characteristics and companies within the same sector
• Salaries take account of complexity of the role, market 
competitiveness, Group performance and the increases awarded 
to the wider workforce
• Salary increases will normally be in line with those received by the wider 
workforce
• More significant increases may be awarded at the discretion of the 
Committee, for example where there is a change in responsibilities, to 
reflect individual development and performance in the role
• None, although overall individual performance is a factor considered when 
setting and reviewing salaries
Bonus • Incentivises annual delivery of financial, strategic and personal 
goals
• Maximum bonus only payable for achieving demanding targets
• Delivery of a proportion of bonus in deferred shares provides 
alignment with shareholders and assists with retention
• Allowing executives to receive, on vesting, the value of dividends 
which accrue on deferred shares helps align executives’ rewards 
with shareholders’ interests
• Paid in cash, with up to 40% deferred as a conditional award of 
shares
• Vesting of deferred shares is subject to continued employment 
(save in “good leaver” scenarios) at the end of three years from 
the award of the bonus
• The payment of any earned bonus remains ultimately at the 
discretion of the Committee
• Non–pensionable
• Executives are entitled to receive, on vesting of deferred share 
awards, the value of dividend payments that would otherwise have 
been paid on the deferred shares during the deferral period
• Chief Executive – 125% of salary 
• Other executive directors – 100% of salary
• Mix of Group financial objectives and personal objectives – financial 
performance targets will determine the majority of the award and will 
typically include measures such as EPS and cash flow, although the 
Committee has discretion to set other targets
• Personal objectives will be measurable and linked to goals that are 
consistent with the Group’s longer–term goals
• No bonus will be paid in respect of any element unless threshold financial 
performance targets have been achieved
• Performance below threshold results in zero payment. Payment rises from 
0% to 100% of the maximum opportunity for levels of performance between 
threshold and maximum with 50% of the maximum payable for on–target 
performance
• The Committee has discretion to reduce (potentially to zero) any bonus 
payout based on its assessment of the health and safety performance of 
the Group or an individual business within the Group
• Includes a clawback mechanism in the event of a material misstatement of 
the Group’s financial results
Long–term 
incentive plan 
(performance 
share plan – 
“PSP”)
• Incentivises executives to achieve targets aligned to the Group’s 
main strategic objectives of delivering sustainable growth and 
shareholder returns
• Allowing executives to receive, on vesting, the value of dividends 
(in cash or shares) which accrue on deferred shares helps align 
executives’ rewards with shareholders’ interests
• Annual grants of shares, which vest subject to the Group’s 
performance measured over three years 
• Executives are entitled to receive the value of dividend payments 
that would otherwise have been paid on vested awards
• All awards are subject to the discretions given to the Committee in 
the plan rules during the vesting period
• Normally 150% of base salary (although grants up to 200% of base salary 
may be made in exceptional circumstances such as on recruitment)
• Awards made prior to 2014 are based on the conditions described on  
page 81 of this report
• Awards from 2014 onwards will be subject to targets based on EPS growth 
and relative TSR vs a peer group of international defence sector companies. 
For the awards to be granted in 2014, each measure will determine the 
vesting of 50% of the award; however, the Committee will have discretion to 
set different weightings for awards in future years
• Targets for the EPS condition are set by the Remuneration Committee prior 
to each grant. Targets for the relative TSR condition are based on a sliding 
scale, with median representing threshold performance and upper quartile 
representing maximum performance
• For each measure, performance below threshold results in zero payment. 
Payment rises from 25% to 100% of the maximum opportunity for that 
measure for levels of performance between threshold and maximum
• Includes a clawback mechanism in the event of a material misstatement of 
the Group’s financial results
All–employee 
share 
schemes
• All employees, including executives, are encouraged to acquire 
shares by participating in the Group’s all–employee share plans – 
the UK Sharesave Plan and the US Stock Purchase Plan 
• The UK Sharesave Plan and US Stock Purchase Plans have 
standard terms 
• Under the UK Sharesave Plan (the scheme applicable to the 
current executive directors), participants can enter into a savings 
contract, in return for which they are granted options to acquire 
shares at a discount to the market value of the shares at the start 
of the performance period
• The rules for the UK Sharesave Plan were approved by 
shareholders at the 2008 Annual General Meeting
• Participation limits are those set by the relevant tax authorities from time 
to time
• N/A
Pension • Provides modest retirement benefits that reward sustained 
contribution
• Defined benefit scheme until 6 April 2010, in which pension at a 
rate of 1/80th of final pensionable salary plus a cash lump sum of 
3/80ths accrued for each year of membership. Final pensionable 
salary was capped at the HMRC notional earnings cap, and the 
scheme assumed a normal retirement age of 65. The scheme is 
now closed to future accrual
• Cash supplement after 6 April 2010, subject to auto–enrolment in 
the Group Stakeholder Scheme from 1 January 2014
• Post 6 April 2010 – 20% of base salary cash supplement paid in lieu of 
occupational pension scheme membership
• However, from 1 January 2014, all UK employees, including the executive 
directors, are subject to auto–enrolment into the Group’s defined 
contribution stakeholder scheme, with an employer contribution of 4% 
of base salary. If executives do not opt out of this scheme, their cash 
supplement will be reduced by 4%
• N/A
Other benefits • Provides a competitive package of benefits that assists with 
recruitment and retention 
• Main benefits currently provided to UK executives are a fully–
expensed company car or car allowance, life assurance, permanent 
health insurance and private medical insurance
• Company car up to an annual lease cost of £12,000 or cash allowance of  
up to £25,000 per annum
• Other benefits will be in line with market. The value of each benefits is 
based on the cost to the Company and is not pre–determined
• N/A
Notes:
2.  For the year ended 31 October 2013, Mark Papworth and Steve Bowers were each entitled to a minimum bonus of 50% of salary.
3.  All–employee share plans do not have performance conditions. Executive directors are eligible to participate in the UK Sharesave Plan on the same terms as 
other employees. 
4.  Copies of the PSP rules are available on request from the Company Secretary.
5.  As described on page 82, the Company operates share ownership guidelines requiring executive directors to acquire and hold a specified level of shareholding.
67
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
directors’ remuneration report
Committee discretions
The Committee operates the Group’s variable incentive plans according to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC 
rules where relevant. To ensure the efficient administration of these plans, the Committee will apply certain operational 
discretions. These include the following:
• selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis;
• determining the timing of grants of awards and/or payment;
• determining the quantum of awards and/or payments (within the limits set out in the policy table above);
• determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance;
• making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. change of control, rights issues, corporate 
restructuring events, and special dividends); 
• determining “good leaver” status for incentive plan purposes and applying the appropriate treatment; and
• undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance measures, and setting targets for the annual bonus plan and PSP 
from year to year.
If an event occurs which results in the annual bonus plan or PSP performance conditions and/or targets being deemed no 
longer appropriate (e.g. a material acquisition or divestment), the Committee will have the ability to adjust appropriately the 
measures and/or targets and alter weightings, provided that the revised conditions or targets are not materially less difficult to 
satisfy.
Outstanding share incentive awards that remain unvested or unexercised at the date of this report, as detailed on pages 81 and 
82 of the annual report on remuneration, remain eligible for vesting or exercise based on their original award terms.
Selection of performance metrics and targets
The performance–related elements of remuneration take into account the Group’s risk policies and systems, and are designed 
to align the senior executives’ interests with those of shareholders. The Committee reviews the annual bonus plan measures set 
for all of the Group’s senior executives (not just the executive directors) every year, in order to ensure that they are aligned with 
the Group’s strategy and to ensure consistent bonus arrangements amongst the senior executive team. All financial targets 
are set on a sliding scale. Non–financial targets are set at the beginning of the year based on individual and management team 
responsibilities.
The annual bonus plan performance metrics include a mix of financial targets and personal objectives, reflecting the key 
annual priorities of the Group. The financial metrics determine the majority of the bonus and normally include cash flow – a 
key measure of the Group’s ability to invest in the business and pay dividends to its shareholders – and EPS, which reflects the 
Group’s financial performance and is a key measure for its shareholders. The personal objectives agreed on an annual basis will 
be measurable and based on individual performance, and will be consistent with the achievement of the Group’s longer–term 
goals.
The Remuneration Committee has decided to apply TSR and EPS performance conditions to awards to be made under the PSP 
in 2014 and future years, as these measures are directly aligned to the success of the Group’s recovery. EPS is a measure 
of the Group’s overall financial success and TSR provides an external assessment of the Company’s performance against its 
peer group. TSR also aligns the rewards received by executives with the returns received by shareholders. The actual EPS 
performance targets for PSP awards to be granted in 2014 have not yet been determined but in accordance with the normal 
practice, will appropriately reflect market expectations for the Company at the time of grant, as well as the Board’s own internal 
expectations. The performance targets will be disclosed in the relevant RIS announcement when the awards are granted. 
Further details on the TSR targets for 2014 awards are set out on page 77 of the annual report on remuneration. 
The Committee will review the choice and relative balance of performance measures and the appropriateness of performance 
targets prior to each grant of awards under the PSP. The EPS targets are reset prior to each grant, following a review of internal 
and external expectations of future EPS growth for the Group. The TSR comparator group is reviewed prior to each grant to 
ensure it remains appropriate. The Committee retains discretion to set different targets for future awards, providing that, in 
the opinion of the Committee, the new targets are no less challenging in light of the prevailing circumstances than those set 
previously.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
68 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
How employees’ pay is taken into account
In addition to determining the remuneration arrangements for the executive directors, the Committee considers and approves 
the base salaries for sixteen other senior executives, and reviews salaries for the next tier of management at each of the 
Group’s businesses. The Committee also receives information on general pay levels and policies across the Group. The 
Committee, therefore, has due regard to salary levels across the Group in applying its remuneration policy.
How the executive directors’ remuneration policy relates to the wider Group
The remuneration policy described above provides an overview of the structure that operates for the most senior executives in 
the Group. Lower aggregate incentive quanta are applied at below executive level, with levels driven by market comparatives 
and the impact of the role.
Employees are provided with a competitive package of benefits, which typically includes participation in the Group’s defined 
contribution pension arrangements.
Long–term incentives are provided to the most senior executives and those identified as having the greatest potential to 
influence performance within the Group. However, in order to encourage wider employee share ownership, the Company also 
operates a Sharesave Plan in the UK and a Stock Purchase Plan in the US, in which all UK and US employees are eligible to 
participate on completion of six months’ service.
How shareholders’ views are taken into account
The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback received on the directors’ remuneration report each year 
and guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally. Shareholders’ views are key inputs when shaping 
remuneration policy.
In December 2013 and January 2014, the Committee consulted with the Company’s largest shareholders on the proposed 
changes for 2014, including the choice and weighting of performance measures in the incentive arrangements and the level 
of salary increases for the executive directors. The feedback received has been reflected in the policy that is presented in this 
report.
Legacy arrangements
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this policy, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into 
with current or former directors (such as the payment of a pension or the unwinding of legacy share schemes) that have been 
disclosed to shareholders in previous directors’ remuneration reports. Details of any payments to former directors will be set 
out in the annual report on remuneration as they arise.
69
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
directors’ remuneration report
Potential remuneration scenarios for executive directors
The chart below details the hypothetical composition of each executive director’s remuneration package and how it could vary 
at different levels of performance under the future policy set out above. The executive directors will not receive either the 
“target” or “maximum” packages in 2014, as there are no performance share plan awards due to vest. 
34% 59% 100%
34% 59% 100%
31% 55% 100%
26%
23%
27%
23%
31%
28%
40%
18%
39%
18%
38%
17%
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
1,600
1,800
2,000
Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum
Mark Papworth Steve Bowers Sarah Ellard
0 0 0 £
Annual bonus
Total ﬁxed pay
£592,000
£1,067,000
£1,898,250
£380,000
£642,500
£1,130,000
£275,800
£465,238
£817,050
Performance share plan awards
Assumptions:
1.  Minimum = fixed pay only (2014 salary plus benefits plus pension cash supplement). 
On target = fixed pay plus target annual bonus of 62.5% of salary for the Chief Executive and 50% for the other executive directors plus target PSP awards of 
37.5% of salary for the Chief Executive and other executive directors. 
Maximum = fixed pay plus maximum annual bonus of 125% of salary for the Chief Executive and 100% for the other executive directors plus maximum PSP 
awards of 150% of salary for the Chief Executive and other executive directors.
2.  The PSP awards section of the bars is shaded, as these awards are subject to performance in future years and cannot ordinarily vest until three years after grant. 
3.  Salary levels (on which other elements of the packages are calculated) are based on those applying to 31 December 2013.
4.  The value of taxable benefits is based on an estimated cost of £22,000 for Mark Papworth, £20,000 for Steve Bowers and £16,000 for Sarah Ellard.
5.  Pension provision is 20% of salary for each director.
6.  The executive directors may participate in all–employee share schemes on the same basis as other employees. The value that may be received under these 
schemes is subject to tax–approved limits. For simplicity, the value that may be received from participating in these schemes has been excluded from the above 
charts.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
70 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
The additional chart below compares the actual realisable value of each executive director’s remuneration package for 2013 
with the potential scenarios set out above, taking account of the fact no deferred bonus shares or performance share plan 
awards are due to vest during 2013 or 2014. 
68% 81% 85%
68% 81%
84%
62% 77%
81%
32%
19%
15%
32%
19%
16%
38%
23%
19%
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
2013 Actual 2014 Target 2014
Maximum
2013 Actual 2014 Target 2014
Maximum
2013 Actual 2014 Target 2014
Maximum
Mark Papworth Steve Bowers Sarah Ellard
0 0 0 £
Annual cash bonus 
Total ﬁxed pay
£697,000
£770,125
£948,250
£418,805
£470,000
£560,000
£311,152
£340,750
£405,700
Assumptions:
1.  2013 Actual = fixed pay (2013 annualised salary plus benefits plus pension cash supplement) plus the cash element of the 2013 bonus award. 
2014 Target = fixed pay (2014 salary plus benefits plus pension cash supplement) plus target annual cash bonus of 37.5% of salary for the Chief Executive and 
30% for the other executive directors. 
Maximum = maximum annual cash bonus of 75% of salary for the Chief Executive and 60% for the other executive directors.
2. Other assumptions as above. 
Policy on payments for loss of office
All new executive directors appointed will have service contracts which are terminable on a maximum of twelve months’ notice. 
Provisions permitting the Company to make any termination payments by instalments, and requiring directors to mitigate 
their loss in such circumstances, will be included in each contract. The Remuneration Committee will exercise discretion in 
determining whether termination payments should be paid by instalments, taking account of the reason for the departure of 
the director and their prior performance. Other than in gross misconduct situations, the Company would expect to honour the 
contractual entitlements of terminated directors.
Other than in certain “good leaver” circumstances (including, but not limited to, redundancy, ill–health or retirement), no bonus 
would be payable unless the individual remains employed and is not under notice at the payment date. Any bonuses paid to a 
“good leaver” would be based on an assessment of their individual and the Company’s performance over the period, and  
prorated for the proportion of the bonus year worked.
With regards to long–term incentive awards, the PSP rules provide that other than in certain “good leaver” circumstances, 
awards lapse on cessation of employment. Where an individual is a “good leaver”, the Remuneration Committee’s policy for 
future PSP awards will be to permit awards to remain outstanding until the end of the original performance period, when a 
pro rata reduction will be made to take account of the proportion of the vesting period that lapsed prior to termination of 
employment, although the Committee has discretion to partly or completely disapply prorating and the performance conditions 
in exceptional circumstances. The Remuneration Committee has discretion to deem an individual to be a “good leaver”. In doing 
so, it will take account of the reason for their departure and the performance of the individual. 
Deferred bonus share awards will also normally lapse on cessation of employment, unless the executive director is deemed to 
be a “good leaver” by the Remuneration Committee, as referred to above. 
The Committee will have authority to settle legal claims against the Company (e.g. for unfair dismissal, discrimination or 
whistleblowing) that arise on termination. The Committee may also authorise the provision of outplacement services.
71
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
directors’ remuneration report
Executive directors’ service agreements and loss of office payments
The current executive directors have rolling service contracts, details of which are summarised in the table below:
Provision Detailed terms
Contract dates Mark Papworth – 22 October 2012 (effective 5 November 2012)
Steve Bowers – 2 January 2013 (effective 7 January 2013)
Sarah Ellard – 2 November 2011 (effective 7 October 2011)
Notice period Twelve months from both the Company and from the executive
Termination payment
1
Contracts may be terminated without notice by the payment of a sum equal to the sum of 
salary due for the unexpired notice period plus the fair value of any contractual benefits 
(including pension) 
Payments may be made in instalments and in these circumstances there is a requirement to 
mitigate loss
Incentive arrangements A pro–rata bonus may also become payable for the period of active service, along with 
vesting of outstanding performance share plan and deferred bonus share awards (see above) 
Notes:
1.  Mark Papworth’s contract originally contained additional provisions in the event of a change of control; however, these ceased to apply from 5 November 2013.
The executive directors’ service contracts are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office.
Recruitment of executive directors
Salaries for new hires (including internal promotions) will be set to reflect their skills and experience, the Company’s intended 
pay positioning, and the market rate for the applicable role.
Where it is appropriate to offer a below median salary initially, the Committee will have the discretion to allow phased salary 
increases over a period of time for newly–appointed directors, even though this may involve increases in excess of the rate for 
the wider workforce and inflation.
Benefits will be provided in line with those offered to other executive directors, taking account of local market practice, with 
relocation expenses or arrangements provided if necessary. Tax equalisation may also be considered if an executive is adversely 
affected by taxation due to their employment with the Company. Legal fees and other costs incurred by the individual may also 
be paid by the Company.
The aggregate incentive opportunity offered to new recruits will normally be no higher than that offered under the annual 
bonus plan and the PSP to the existing executive directors. Different performance measures and targets may be set initially 
for the annual bonus plan, taking into account the responsibilities of the individual and the point in the financial year at which 
they join. Any increases in incentive quantum offered above this limit will be contingent on the Company receiving shareholder 
approval for an amendment to its approved policy at its next general meeting.
Current entitlements (benefits, bonus, share schemes) may be bought out on terms that are no more favourable than a  
like–for–like basis (with a comparable time horizon, fair value and subject to performance conditions). The Group’s existing 
incentive arrangements will be used to the extent possible, although awards may also be granted outside of these schemes, if 
necessary, and as permitted under the Listing Rules. 
In the case of an internal hire, any outstanding variable pay awarded in relation to the previous role will be allowed to pay out 
according to its terms of grant (adjusted as relevant to take into account the Board appointment).
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
72 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Policy for non–executive directors
Element
Purpose and link  
to strategy Operation Maximum
Performance  
assessment
Non–executive 
directors’ and 
Chairman’s fees
• Takes account of 
recognised practice 
and set at a level 
that is sufficient to 
attract and retain 
high–calibre  
non–executives
• The Chairman is paid a single fee for all 
his responsibilities. The non–executive 
directors are paid a basic fee. The Chairs of 
the Remuneration Committee and the Audit 
Committee each receive additional fees to 
reflect their extra responsibilities
• When reviewing fee levels, account is  
taken of market movements in  
non–executive director fees, Board committee 
responsibilities, ongoing time commitments, 
the general economic environment and 
the level of increases awarded to the wider 
workforce
• Fee increases, if applicable, are normally 
effective from April of each year
• Non–executive directors do not participate in 
any pension, bonus or share incentive plans. 
However, the Company provides private 
medical insurance in respect of Peter Hickson 
and his spouse 
• In exceptional circumstances, additional fees 
may be paid where there is a substantial 
increase in the time commitment required of 
non–executive directors
• N/A • N/A
Non–executive directors’ letters of appointment
Non–executive directors do not receive compensation for loss of office but are appointed for a fixed term of three years, 
renewable for further three year terms if both parties agree and subject to annual re–election by shareholders. Peter Hickson’s 
appointment may be terminated on six months’ notice by either party, and the other non–executive directors’ appointments 
may be terminated on three months’ notice by either party. 
The following table shows details of the terms of appointment for the non–executive directors:
Name Date original term commenced Date current term commenced Expected expiry date of current term
Peter Hickson (Chairman) 1 July 2010 
(Chairman since 1 October 2010)
1 July 2013 30 June 2016
Andy Hamment 1 July 2013 1 July 2013 30 June 2016
Ian Much 1 December 2004 1 December 2013 Rolling
Vanda Murray 1 November 2011 1 November 2011 31 October 2014
Nigel Young 1 May 2013 1 May 2013 30 April 2016
73
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
directors’ remuneration report
Annual report on remuneration
This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium–sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended), and 9.8.6R of the Listing Rules. The annual report on 
remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 Annual General Meeting. The information on pages 76 to 
85 has been audited.
The Remuneration Committee and its advisers
Members of the Remuneration Committee 
Name From To
Ian Much (Chairman) 1 December 2004 Present
Roger Freeman 26 May 2006 31 December 2013
Andy Hamment 1 July 2013 Present
Peter Hickson 1 July 2010 Present
Vanda Murray 1 November 2011 Present
Peter Norriss 1 May 2004 20 March 2013
Nigel Young 1 May 2013 Present
The Group Legal Director & Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and the Chief Executive attends meetings 
by invitation but no executive director or other employee is present during discussions relating to their own remuneration.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
74 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Meetings
The Remuneration Committee met formally six times during the year. In addition, two additional ad hoc meetings were 
convened to deal with matters arising between scheduled meetings. Details of the attendance of the Committee members at 
scheduled meetings are set out on page 57 of the corporate governance report. 
Principal activities of the Remuneration Committee during the year 
December 2012
Approval of remuneration 
packages for the new 
Finance Director and 
HR Director
January 2013
Approval of senior 
management bonus 
payments for the 2012 
financial year
Approval of annual salary 
increases for the Group 
Legal Director & Company 
Secretary and other 
members of the senior 
management team
Consideration of short–term 
retention arrangements for 
key employees below Board 
level across the Group 
Approval of performance 
condition and granting 
of awards under the 
performance share plan
Consideration of letter 
to major shareholders 
on remuneration–related 
matters
Approval of directors’ 
remuneration report
February 2013
Briefing on the new 
directors’ remuneration 
reporting requirements
March 2013
Consideration of future 
remuneration policy for 
executive directors 
Approval of 2013 bonus 
plan targets
Approval of termination 
arrangements for certain 
senior executives 
June 2013
Further consideration of 
future remuneration policy
Approval of performance 
share plan award
September 2013
Review of policy on 
contractual notice periods 
for senior executives
Advisers
During the year, the Committee retained New Bridge Street (an Aon Hewitt company, part of Aon plc) to advise on remuneration 
and incentive plan related matters and the setting of remuneration for new appointments. New Bridge Street was appointed by 
the Committee and is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants’ Group Code of Conduct, which sets out guidelines to ensure 
that its advice is independent and free from undue influence. The Company received no other services from New Bridge Street, 
or any other part of the Aon group of companies, during the year. The fees paid to New Bridge Street in 2013 were £65,936 
(2012: £27,198). The Committee reviews the performance and independence of its advisers on an annual basis.
The Committee consults internally with the Chief Executive, Mark Papworth, and the Group Legal Director & Company 
Secretary, Sarah Ellard.
75
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
directors’ remuneration report
Application of the remuneration policy for 2014
Base salary
The executive directors’ salaries were reviewed in early January 2014. The salary increases, which took effect from  
1 January 2014, are set out below. The background to the increases applied to Mark Papworth’s and Steve Bowers’ salaries 
are set out in the statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on pages 64 and 65. The percentage increase 
applied to Sarah Ellard’s salary was consistent with the average salary increase to UK employees.
Salary as at 1 January 2013
(or date of appointment, if later) Salary as at 1 January 2014 % Increase
Mark Papworth £450,000 £475,000 5.6%
Steve Bowers £275,000 £300,000 9.1%
Sarah Ellard £210,000 £216,500 3.1%
f ees for the Chairman and non–executive directors
As detailed in the remuneration policy, the Company’s approach to setting the non–executive directors’ remuneration takes 
account of recognised practice, and is set at a level that is sufficient to attract and retain high–calibre non–executives. Details of 
the fees are set out below:
Fees as at 1 January 2013 Fees as at 1 January 2014 % increase
Chairman’s fees £170,000 £187,000 10%
1
Other non–executive directors’ base fee £55,000 £55,000 –
Audit Committee Chair fee £8,000 £8,000 –
Remuneration Committee Chair fee £8,000 £8,000 –
Notes:
1.  The Chairman’s annual fees of £187,000 have been fixed for his current three year term of appointment, which expires on 30 June 2016. His previous annual 
fee of £170,000 was also fixed for his original three year term.
Annual bonus plan performance targets
The annual bonus plan for 2014 will largely operate on a similar basis to 2013. However, in 2013, the weighting of personal 
objectives was increased to 40% of the total bonus opportunity on an exceptional basis, reflecting the importance of  
delivering key strategic and operational goals in the year. For the 2014 bonus plan, the weighting of personal objectives for 
Mark Papworth and Sarah Ellard has reverted back to 25% of the total bonus opportunity. However, Steve Bowers’ personal 
objectives will contribute to 35% of his bonus opportunity for 2014, as the Committee feels that a slightly greater weighting 
on personal objectives is appropriate for Steve, given the importance of addressing the currently complex position in relation 
to debt holders and improving financial management in the business. The personal objectives set for Steve will reflect these 
priorities, and will include targets relating to the Group’s discussions with debt holders and restructuring the balance sheet.
In 2014, the performance measures and weightings for the annual bonus plan will therefore be as follows:
Measure As a percentage of maximum bonus opportunity
Mark Papworth Steve Bowers Sarah Ellard
EPS 37.5% 32.5% 37.5%
Cash flow 37.5% 32.5% 37.5%
Personal objectives 25.0% 35.0% 25.0%
No bonus will be payable in respect of the personal objectives unless threshold performance has been achieved against both 
the EPS and cash flow targets. Further details of the targets are not being disclosed prospectively as these are commercially 
sensitive. A detailed description of the personal objectives and performance against them will be included in next year’s annual 
report on remuneration. 
The 2014 bonus plan is consistent with the policy detailed in the remuneration policy in terms of maximum bonus opportunity, 
deferred share arrangements and clawback.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
76 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Long–term incentive targets
The policy for annual awards granted to the executive directors under the PSP in 2014 and beyond will be to use two metrics, 
namely growth in adjusted EPS and relative TSR measured against an international peer group of defence sector companies 
as listed below. Each metric will determine the vesting of 50% of the 2014 awards. 25% of each part of the award will vest for 
threshold or median performance, with full vesting of each part of the award for stretch or upper quartile performance. The 
EPS performance targets for 2014 have not yet been determined but in accordance with the Committee’s normal practice, 
will appropriately reflect market expectations for the Company at the time of grant, as well as the Board’s own internal 
expectations. The performance targets will be disclosed in the relevant RIS announcement when the awards are granted.
The defence sector peer group for the 2014 awards comprises: Alliant Techsystems; BAE Systems; Cobham; Cohort; Esterline 
Technologies; Finmeccanica; FLIR Systems; L3 Communications; Manroy; Qinetiq Group; Raytheon; Rheinmetall; Rockwell 
Collins; and Ultra Electronics.
Directors’ emoluments
The emoluments of all the directors who served during the year are shown below:
Year
Salaries and 
fees
£000
Taxable  
benefits
1
£000
Bonus (cash 
 and deferred 
shares)
3
£000
PSP
£000
Pension 
 benefits
2
£000
Total 
£000
Executives
Mark Papworth  
(appointed 5 November 2012)
2013 450 20 225 – 90 785
2012 – – – – – –
Steve Bowers  
(appointed 7 January 2013)
2013 226 15 115 – 45 401
2012 – – – – – –
Sarah Ellard 2013 208 16 76 – 42 342
2012 200 16 – 49 40 305
Non–executives
Roger Freeman
4
 
(retired 31 December 2013)
2013 63 – – – – 63
2012 63 – – – – 63
Andy Hamment  
(appointed 1 July 2013)
2013 18 – – – – 18
2012 – – – – – –
Peter Hickson 2013 176 2 – – – 178
2012 170 2 – – – 172
Ian Much
4
2013 63 – – – – 63
2012 63 – – – – 63
Vanda Murray 2013 55 – – – – 55
2012 55 – – – – 55
Peter Norriss 
(retired 20 March 2013)
2013 23 2 – – – 25
2012 55 2 – – – 57
Nigel Young  
(appointed 1 May 2013) 
4,5
2013 32 – – – – 32
2012 – – – – – –
Total remuneration 2013 1,314 55 416 – 177 1,962
2012 606 20 – 49 40 715
Notes:
1.  Comprises a fully–expensed company car for Sarah Ellard (annual lease cost £9,000) or cash allowance (£20,000 for Mark Papworth and £18,000 for Steve 
Bowers), plus private medical insurance. 
2.  The executive directors receive a cash supplement of 20% of salary in lieu of occupational pension scheme membership.
3.  40% of any bonus is delivered as an award of deferred shares.
4.  Nigel Young and Ian Much each receive an additional fee of £8,000 per annum, included in the figures above, in respect of their Chairmanship of the Audit 
Committee and the Remuneration Committee respectively. Roger Freeman also received this additional fee during his tenure as Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. Ian Much also serves as the Senior Independent Director but he receives no additional fee for this role.
5.  Nigel Young’s emoluments do not include the remuneration he received during his appointment as Interim Chief Financial Officer, prior to his appointment to the 
Board.
Amounts shown above in the salaries and fees column relate to base salary in the case of executive directors and fees in the 
case of non–executive directors.
77
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
directors’ remuneration report
Details of variable pay earned in the year
Annual bonus
The Committee has consistently set highly challenging bonus targets for the achievement of maximum bonuses. No bonuses 
were paid to executive directors for 2011 and 2012, and the executive directors did not receive maximum bonuses in any of 
the prior three years.
As disclosed last year and as described in the Statement by the Committee Chairman as part of their recruitment terms,  
Mark Papworth and Steve Bowers each had an entitlement to a minimum bonus of 50% of salary for 2013 only.
In 2013, the annual bonus plan threshold performance was not achieved in relation to either the EPS or cash flow targets, as 
a consequence of the difficult trading conditions which impacted the Group’s performance during the year. The actual financial 
performance targets are not disclosed, as they are considered to be commercially sensitive. The performance against the 
personal objectives element of the annual bonus plan is set out below:
Personal objectives
(40% of bonus 
opportunity)
Performance 
against 
individual 
objectives
Overall performance 
against objectives –  
% of salary
Bonus cash 
– % of salary
Deferred share 
award – % of salary
Mark Papworth • Develop a new health and 
safety strategy for the 
Group, and implement 
improvements to the 
existing arrangements
l 38.5% 30%
1
20%
1
• Completion of 
organisational 
restructuring activities
l • Complete integration of six 
business units
l • Progression of potential 
divestments
l • Develop key customer 
relationships
l • Progression of certain joint 
venture arrangements
l • Implementation of 
enhancements to 
the Group’s integrity 
programme
l Steve Bowers • Secure amendments to 
the Group’s financing 
covenants
l 36% 25%
2
16.7%
2
• Deliver improvements 
to the Group’s financial 
reporting process and 
financial systems
l • Implement an enhanced 
financial forecasting 
regime
l • Develop enhanced 
treasury and tax strategies 
l Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
78 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Personal objectives
(40% of bonus 
opportunity)
Performance 
against 
individual 
objectives
Overall performance 
against objectives –  
% of salary
Bonus cash 
– % of salary
Deferred share 
award – % of salary
Sarah Ellard • Completion of 
organisational 
restructuring activities
l 36% 21.6% 14.4%
• Progression of potential 
divestments
l • Progression of certain joint 
venture arrangements
l • Completion of 
restructuring of pension 
arrangements
l • Rationalisation of Group 
property portfolio
l • Review of operating 
policies and procedures 
following organisational 
restructuring
l • Implementation of 
enhancements to 
the Group’s integrity 
programme
l Notes:
1.  Mark Papworth was entitled to a 50% minimum bonus for 2013. 
2.  Steve Bowers was also entitled to a 50% minimum bonus for 2013 – this has been prorated to reflect his January 2013 start date to a total bonus of 41.7%.
3.  Details of personal objectives have been included above to the extent that such disclosure is not commercially sensitive.
4.  Vesting of deferred bonuses is subject only to continued service.
79
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
directors’ remuneration report
Performance share plan
Vesting of 2011 PSP awards
The PSP awards granted on 19 January 2011 were based on the Group’s performance to 31 October 2013. The performance 
condition for these awards was as follows:
Condition Threshold vesting Full vesting Actual Vesting
Total earnings per share growth per annum (not 
compound) over three financial years
RPI + 10% p.a.  
(25% vests for awards up 
to 100% of salary)
RPI + 25% p.a.  
(for any additional awards 
over 100% of salary)
RPI +25% p.a. (for awards 
up to 100% of salary) 
RPI + 35% p.a.  
(for awards  
up to 150% of salary)
(19.1%) 0%
Based on the above, all PSP awards granted on 19 January 2011 will lapse. Only one current executive director received an 
award under this grant. Details of the award are provided below:
Executive Vesting date
Number of shares  
at grant
Number of shares  
to vest
Number of share  
to lapse
Value of  
dividends
Sarah Ellard 19 January 2014 25,520 Nil 25,520 Nil
PSP awards granted in the year
On 21 November 2012 and 31 January 2013, the following conditional awards of shares were granted to the executive 
directors under the PSP:
Executive Date of grant Value of award
Closing share 
price on date 
of grant
Number of 
conditional 
shares awarded Face value
% that vests 
at threshold
Vesting 
determined by 
Mark Papworth 21 November 
2012
200% of salary 217.0p 413,412 £897,104 25% Average share 
price between 
1 August 2015 
and 
31 October 2015
Steve Bowers 31 January 
2013
150% of salary 283.6p 149,564 £424,164 25%
Sarah Ellard 31 January 
2013
150% of salary 283.6p 114,213 £323,908 25%
Award levels were calculated based on the closing share price on the trading day immediately preceding the date of grant. The 
face value of each award shown above is based on the closing share price on the date of grant.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
80 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Performance conditions for outstanding awards
The awards made to the executive directors in November 2012 and January 2013 are subject to a performance condition 
based on the Company’s average share price over a three month period from 1 August 2015 to 31 October 2015. The targets 
for these awards (and other outstanding awards to executive directors) are summarised in the table below:
Measure Director
Awards to 
executive directors Threshold vesting Full vesting
Awards made on 
19 January 2011
Total earnings per 
share growth
1
  
per annum  
(not compound) over 
three financial years
Sarah Ellard 150% of salary RPI + 10% p.a. (25% 
vests for awards up to 
100% of salary)
RPI + 25% p.a. (for any 
additional awards over 
100% of salary)
RPI + 25% p.a. (for 
awards up to 100% of 
salary)
RPI + 35% p.a. (for 
any additional awards 
up to 150% of salary)
Awards made on  
27 January 2012
Total earnings per 
share growth
1
  
per annum  
(not compound) over 
three financial years
Sarah Ellard 150% of salary 3% p.a. (15% vests)
5% p.a. (25% vests)
10% p.a. (for any 
additional awards over 
100% of salary)
10% p.a. (for awards 
up to 100% of salary)
12.5% p.a. (for any 
additional awards up 
to 150% of salary)
Awards made on  
21 November 2012
Average share price 
from 
1 August 2015 to  
31 October 2015
Mark Papworth 200% of salary 275p (25% vests) 500p or more 
(100% vests)
Awards made on  
31 January 2013
Average share price 
from
1 August 2015 to  
31 October 2015
Steve Bowers
Sarah Ellard
150% of salary 350p (25% vests) 500p or more 
(100% vests)
Notes:
1. Earnings per share is calculated on a fully–diluted and normalised basis, as specified by the Committee prior to grant.
Summary of outstanding PSP awards 
Number of shares under award
At 1 November 
2012
Awarded during
 the year
Lapsed during 
the year
Vested during 
the year
At 31 October 
2013 Date of vesting
Closing share price 
on date of grant (p)
Mark Papworth – 413,412 – – 413,412 21 November 
2015
217.0
– 413,412 – – 413,412
Steve Bowers – 149,564 – – 149,564 31 January 
2016
283.6
– 149,564 – – 149,564
Sarah Ellard 16,460 – 16,460 – – 20 January 
2013
615.0
25,520 – – – 25,520 19 January 
2014
636.8
79,197 – – – 79,197 27 January 
2015
387.3
– 114,213 – – 114,213 31 January 
2016
121,177 114,213 16,460 – 218,930
Notes:
1. None of the awards granted on 20 January 2010 vested as the threshold earnings per share performance target was not met.
2. As explained above, the awards granted on 19 January 2011 will lapse as the threshold earnings per share performance target has not been met.
81
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
directors’ remuneration report
Sharesave awards
On 30 July 2013, the following options were granted to the executive directors under the Chemring Group 2008 UK  
Sharesave Plan:
Executive Number of share options Exercise price Exercise date 
Mark Papworth 6,276 239p 1 October 2018 – 1 April 2019
Steve Bowers 6,276 239p 1 October 2018 – 1 April 2019
Sarah Ellard 3,765 239p 1 October 2016 – 1 April 2017
Deferred share awards
As no bonuses were paid to the executive directors for 2011 and 2012, there are no outstanding deferred share awards.
Directors’ shareholdings
Shareholding guidelines apply to executive directors and other participants in the PSP. Executive directors are expected to 
build–up and maintain a shareholding in the Company equivalent to one year’s basic salary, by retaining 50% of the after–tax 
gain on vested PSP awards until such time as the guidelines have been met. Other participants in the PSP are expected to 
retain a shareholding equivalent to 25% to 50% of their basic salary.
The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company at 31 October 2013 are shown below. All are beneficial 
holdings.
Legally owned 
(number of shares) 
Value of legally 
owned shares as 
% of salary
1
Guideline met? Unvested and subject to performance conditions under the PSP
 Sharesave
2011 
award
2012 
award
2013 
award
Total at 
31 Oct 2013
Mark Papworth 100,000 48% No – – 413,412 413,412 6,276
Steve Bowers – – No – – 149,564 149,564 6,276
Sarah Ellard 48,875 50.6% No 25,520 79,197 114,213 218,930 3,765
Roger Freeman 1,750 – – – – – – –
Andy Hamment 50,000 – – – – – – –
Peter Hickson 160,000 – – – – – – –
Ian Much 26,500 – – – – – – –
Vanda Murray 3,000 – – – – – – –
Nigel Young – – – – – – – –
Notes:
1.  Based on the number of shares legally owned, prevailing base salary and share price of 217.5p, at 31 October 2013.
The directors’ share interests at 31 October 2013 include shares held by the directors’ adult children, as required by the 
Companies Act 2006.
There have been no changes to the directors’ interests in shares since 31 October 2013.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
82 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Pension
The following table sets out the pension benefits earned by Sarah Ellard during her former membership of the Chemring Group 
Staff Pension Scheme.
Total benefit accrued 
at 31 Oct 2012
Transfer value of 
accrued benefit 
at 31 Oct 2012 
Total benefit accrued at 
31 Oct 2013
Transfer value of 
accrued benefit 
at 31 Oct 2013
Increase in 
transfer value 
during year 
(less members’ 
contributions)
Pension 
£p.a.
Cash
£ £
Pension
£p.a.
Cash
£ £ £
Sarah Ellard 23,948 71,844 429,659 23,948 71,844 460,587 30,928
Notes:
1.  Transfer values represent liabilities of the applicable scheme, and do not represent sums paid to individuals.
2.  Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the Occupational Pension Scheme (Transfer Value) Regulations 1996. 
3.   Sarah Ellard left pensionable service on 6 April 2010 and therefore has not accrued additional pension over the year. The accrued benefits shown are the 
benefits at the date of exit.
4.  The scheme provided pension at a rate of 1/80th of final pensionable salary plus a cash lump sum of 3/80ths for each year of membership. Final pensionable 
salary was capped at the HMRC notional earnings cap, and the scheme assumed a normal retirement age of 65. Early retirement is permissible from age 55 but 
accrued benefits are reduced accordingly using the early retirement factors in force at the date of early retirement.
Loss of office payments
No compensation for loss of office was paid to any director during the year. The principles governing compensation for loss of 
office are set out on page 71.
Payments to past directors
No payments were made to past directors during the year.
Performance graph and table
The following graph shows the Company’s cumulative total shareholder return over the last five financial years relative to the 
FTSE 250 Index. The FTSE 250 Index has been selected by the Committee for this comparison because it provides the most 
appropriate measure of performance of listed companies of a similar size to the Company.
Total shareholder return
Source: Thomson Reuters
31 Oct 08 31 Oct 09 31 Oct 10 31 Oct 11 31 Oct 12 31 Oct 13
This graph shows the value, by 31 October 2013, of £100 invested in Chemring Group PLC on 31 October 2008
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
Value (£)
Chemring Group PLC FTSE 250 Index
83
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
directors’ remuneration report
Chief Executive’s remuneration
The total remuneration figures for the Chief Executive during each of the last five financial years are shown in the table below. 
It should be noted that Mark Papworth was not in this position for all five years shown but replaced David Price on  
5 November 2012. The total remuneration figure for 2012 includes the payment made to David Price for loss of office.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus based on that year’s performance and vested PSP awards based on 
the three year performance period ending in the relevant year. The annual bonus payout and PSP award vesting level as a 
percentage of the maximum opportunity are also shown for each of these years. 
      David Price Mark Papworth
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Total remuneration (£000) 1,309 1,391 1,239 1,325 785
Annual bonus (% of maximum) 94% 62% 0% 0% 40%
PSP awards vesting (% of maximum) 100% 100% 100% 54.375% 0%
Percentage change in the Chief Executive’s remuneration
The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executive’s total remuneration (excluding the value of any PSP 
awards and pension benefits receivable in the year) between the 2012 and 2013 financial years, compared to that of the 
average for all eligible employees of the Group.
        % Change from 2012 to 2013
Salary Benefits Annual bonus
Chief Executive (14.3%) (39.4%) N/A
Average of other employees 1.3% 8.1% 66.6%
Relative importance of spend on pay
The following table shows the Company’s actual spend on pay (for all employees) relative to dividends and retained profits.
2013
£m
2012
£m % change
Staff costs 172.1 189.8 (9%)
Dividends 13.9 18.4 (24%)
Retained profits 172.5 235.8 (27%)
£1.3 million of the staff costs figure for 2013 relates to pay for the executive directors. This is different to the aggregate of the 
single figures for the year under review due to the way in which share–based awards are accounted for.
The dividends figures relate to amounts payable in respect of the relevant financial year.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
84 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Shareholder voting on the directors’ remuneration report at the 2013 Annual General Meeting
At last year’s Annual General Meeting held on 20 March 2013, the directors’ remuneration report received the following votes 
from shareholders:
Total number of votes % of votes cast
For 134,182,731 95.71%
Against 6,009,646 4.29%
Total votes cast (for and against excluding withheld votes) 140,192,377 100%
Votes withheld
1
3,927,751 2.73%
Total votes cast (including withheld votes) 144,120,128 100%
Notes:
1.  A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast “for” and “against” a resolution.
Approval of the directors’ remuneration report
The directors’ remuneration report was approved by the Board on 23 January 2014.
Signed on behalf of the Board
Ian Much 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
85
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Other information 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
MARkET 
LEADING 
TECHNOLOGIES
CASe Study
RESOLvE
ReSOLVe is a state–of–the–art field 
proven electronic surveillance and 
attack system. It is designed for the 
interception, geolocation, exploitation 
and denial of tactical communications 
in the HF to uHF frequency bands, 
including “modern waveforms”. t he 
underlying technology has been 
developed at Chemring technology 
Solutions over many years, building on 
world class expertise in RF and signal 
processing techniques.
A single ReSOLVe system can be used 
in isolation to provide both full spectrum 
surveillance and direction finding (dF) 
capabilities, and when networked with 
other ReSOLVe systems it is then 
possible to position fix targets using 
angle of arrival techniques.
A version of the equipment first came 
into service with the uk Ministry of 
defence under urgent operational 
requirement (uOR) in 2011, requiring 
the eventual delivery of over seventy 
systems. development of the underlying 
technology has continued and more 
than 100 ReSOLVe systems are now 
in–service or on order with numerous 
customers in europe, Australia and the 
Middle east with strong interest from 
South, Central and Northern America, 
the Far east, and eastern europe. 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Financial
statements
Independent auditor’s report to the 
members of Chemring Group PLC 88
Consolidated income statement 94
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income 95
Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity 96
Consolidated balance sheet 97
Consolidated cash flow statement 98
Notes to the group 
financial statements 99
Parent company balance sheet 143
Parent company statement of 
total recognised gains and losses 144
Parent company reconciliation of movements 
in shareholders’ funds 144
Notes to the parent company 
financial statements 145
Pictured left:
RESOLVE integrated tactical electronic warfare system in 
semi–static configuration. 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Opinion on financial statements 
of Chemring Group PLC 
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of 
the Group’s and the parent company’s affairs as at  
31 October 2013 and the Group’s loss for the year then ended;
• the group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union;
• the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and 
parent company balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, the 
group statement of changes in equity, the parent company reconciliation 
of movements in shareholders’ funds and the related notes 1 to 41. The 
financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation 
of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is 
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Going concern
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ 
statement contained within the directors’ report on page 32 that the 
Group is a going concern. We confirm that:
• we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern 
basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is 
appropriate; and
• we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast 
significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, 
this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue as 
a going concern.
Independent auditor's report to the members of 
Chemring Group PLC
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
88 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the 
allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team:
RISk HOw THE SCOPE Of OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISk
Revenue recognition on: 
• significant long–term contracts, due to the 
financial effects of judgments, including 
future milestone success, associated with 
determining the percentage of contract 
completion at the balance sheet date and risks 
associated with completing the contract; and
• delivery of goods, due to the complex 
contractual terms with regards to the 
transfer of risk and reward and therefore the 
appropriate point at which revenue should be 
recognised.
Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the design and implementation 
of controls over long–term contract accounting. We reviewed the contract 
risk registers and evidence for the progress made against the contract 
to confirm that revenue and profit recognised to date are based on 
management’s current best estimate of the degree of contract completion. 
We understood and challenged management’s assumptions by referring to 
evidence including signed contract terms and latest project status reports, 
and discussing contract progress and future risks with contract engineers. 
We also assessed the reliability of management estimates through 
consideration of the historical accuracy of prior period management 
estimates.
In response to the risk of inappropriate revenue cut–off arising from 
complex contractual terms, we reviewed contractual evidence to 
understand how the specific terms were captured and the appropriate 
revenue recognition policies applied. We then performed a sample test 
of sales recognised either side of the year end to substantiate that the 
appropriate terms of the relevant contracts had been satisfied and that the 
risks and rewards associated with the contract had passed to the customer . 
We used external evidence such as shipping documentation or client 
acceptance where available, to confirm that revenue had been recognised 
in the appropriate period.
Valuation of goodwill and intangible assets 
arising on historical acquisitions, due to 
management’s assertions regarding their 
recoverable amount. There are a number of 
key judgments in determining the recoverable 
amount, including growth rates in future cash 
flow forecasts and discount rates applied to 
these forecasts.
We challenged the assumptions used by management within their 
annual impairment assessment through benchmarking to independently 
available data, peer group analysis, and our understanding of the 
secured orders underpinning the Group’s cash flow forecasts. In 
addition, valuation specialists within the audit team provided additional 
challenge over the discount rate applied to these cash flows through 
the use of external confirmation and benchmarking. Having audited 
the assumptions within management’s annual impairment assessment, 
we checked the arithmetical accuracy of the impairment model using 
these assumptions to corroborate their conclusions with respect to the 
recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles.
Taxation, specifically where provisions are made 
in respect of judgments taken in the various tax 
jurisdictions in which the Group operates. These 
provisions are judgmental as a result of their 
nature and technical complexity.
We evaluated the appropriateness of management’s assumptions and 
estimates in their assessment and valuation of the tax risks within the 
Group, including corroboration with correspondence on the status of tax 
compliance and tax audits in the various jurisdictions in which the Group 
operates, benchmarking against our assessment of the range of potential 
outcomes in respect of the uncertain tax treatments adopted, involving 
tax specialists within the audit team to provide detailed knowledge and 
expertise in assessing tax treatments in certain jurisdictions.
89
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Independent auditor's report to the members of 
Chemring Group PLC
RISk HOw THE SCOPE Of OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE RISk
Appropriateness and completeness of 
judgmental provisions made by management in 
respect of obsolete inventory, product failures, 
and legal claims in respect of the outcome of 
these issues. 
We recalculated and challenged management's estimates for the 
provisions in conjunction with our understanding of the potential liability 
as set out in contract terms. 
In respect of provisions held for obsolete inventory, we attended 
stockcounts and analysed the nature, ageing and turnover of inventory 
in order to identify potentially obsolete goods. We also considered the 
movement of inventory at risk by reference to post year–end usage 
or secured orders. We also challenged the quantum of management’s 
provision using these findings.
For product failures, we challenged the level of provisioning by 
verifying the actual failure costs incurred to date and the products in 
circulation subject to customer dispute using external evidence, such as 
correspondence with third parties. 
In response to legal risks, we circularised the Group's external legal 
advisers and reviewed legal costs incurred in the year to confirm the 
completeness of legal cases to which the Group is party. Through 
external evidence including submitted legal advice and discussion with 
management, we sought to corroborate the basis for management’s 
expectations over likely outcomes and their subsequent quantification of 
the related provisions.
Appropriateness of the going concern principle. We reviewed management's consideration of the adoption of the going 
concern principle with particular focus on the impact of the changes 
to the Group's strategy. Our work included challenging management's 
forecasts, which are also used to support their impairment review, by 
assessing the accuracy of previous forecasts, and comparing the 
short–term forecasts against trading since the balance sheet date. In 
light of this we considered the extent of working capital headroom, 
covenant compliance and the availability and quantum of mitigating 
actions to address potential sensitivity scenarios for a period of twelve 
months from the signing of the financial statements.
The Audit Committee’s consideration of these risks is set out on page 62.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the 
context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to 
express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion on 
the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks 
described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual 
matters.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
90 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Our application of materiality
We determined materiality for the Group to be £5 million, which is below 
10% of underlying pre–tax profit, and below 2% of equity. Pre–tax profit 
has been normalised to align our materiality to the reported results that 
are of interest to the users of the financial statements. This has been 
achieved by removing amortisation of intangible assets and other volatile 
non–underlying items, namely: acquisition and disposal related costs and 
business restructuring and incident costs, impairment of goodwill and 
intangible assets, impairment of assets held for sale and gains on fair 
value movements on derivative financial instruments. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the 
Committee all audit differences in excess of £100,000, as well as 
differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting 
on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee 
on disclosure matters that we identify when assessing the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. 
An overview of the scope of  
our audit
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group 
and its environment, including Group–wide controls, and assessing 
the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. Based on that 
assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit 
work at eleven of the Group’s seventeen principal business units which 
were subject to a full audit. In addition, the remaining six business units 
were subject to an audit of specific account transactions and account 
balances, where the extent of our testing was focused on our Group audit 
risks and our assessment of the risk of material misstatement.
The seventeen locations represent the principal business units within 
the Group’s reportable segments and account for 94% of the Group’s 
net assets, 96% of the Group’s revenue and 98% of the Group’s profit 
before tax. They also provided an appropriate basis for undertaking audit 
work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above. Our 
audit work at the seventeen units was executed at levels of materiality 
applicable to each individual entity, which were lower than Group 
materiality.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process 
and carried out analytical procedures to confirm that there were no 
significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial 
information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of 
specified account balances.
The Group audit team follows a programme of planned visits that has 
been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior 
member of the Group audit team visits each of the significant overseas 
components locations at least once every three years. Every year, 
regardless of whether we have visited or not, we include the component 
audit partner and other senior members of the component audit team in 
our team briefing, direct the scope of their work for the purposes of our 
Group audit, discuss their risk assessment and review documentation of 
the findings from their work.
91
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Opinion on other matters 
prescribed by the Companies  
Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report 
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON wHICH wE ARE 
REqUIRED TO REPORT By EXCEPTION
Adequacy of explanations 
received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if, in our 
opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have not been 
made or the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited 
is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have 
nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate governance report
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the 
corporate governance report relating to the Company’s compliance with 
nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing 
to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other 
information in the annual report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual 
report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing 
our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified 
any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit 
and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is 
fair, balanced and understandable, and whether the annual report 
appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit 
Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. We confirm 
that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading 
statements.
Independent auditor's report to the members of 
Chemring Group PLC
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
92 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Respective responsibilities of 
directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, 
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us 
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for 
Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s 
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, 
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for 
this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the 
financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in 
the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or error . This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non–financial information in the 
annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge 
acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware 
of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Anna Marks (Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
Reading, UK 
23 January 2014
93
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
2013 2012
Note
Underlying
performance*
£m
Non–
underlying
items*
£m
Total
£m
Underlying
performance* 
£m
Non–
underlying
items*
£m
Total
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 4,5 624.9 — 624.9 740.3 — 740.3
Operating profit/(loss) 5,6 72.1 (109.0) (36.9) 88.3 (51.3) 37.0
Share of profit after tax of associate 17 — — — 0.1 — 0.1
Finance income 8 0.2 — 0.2 0.1 — 0.1
Finance expense 9 (19.9) — (19.9) (18.4) — (18.4)
Profit/(loss) before tax 5 52.4 (109.0) (56.6) 70.1 (51.3) 18.8
Tax 10 (10.6) 19.7 9.1 (15.1) 9.5 (5.6)
Profit/(loss) after tax 41.8 (89.3) (47.5) 55.0 (41.8) 13.2
Discontinued operations
Profit after tax from discontinued operations 33 — — — 2.1 — 2.1
Profit/(loss) after tax 41.8 (89.3) (47.5) 57.1 (41.8) 15.3
2013 2012
Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share Note
Underlying
performance*
Non–
underlying
items* Total
Underlying
performance* 
Non–
underlying
items* Total
Continuing operations
Basic 12 21.6p (46.2)p (24.6)p 28.5p (21.7)p 6.8p
Diluted 12 21.2p (45.8)p (24.6)p 28.1p (21.4)p 6.7p
Continuing operations and discontinued operations
Basic 12 21.6p (46.2)p (24.6)p 29.6p (21.7)p 7.9p
Diluted 12 21.2p (45.8)p (24.6)p 29.2p (21.4)p 7.8p
*  Further information about non–underlying items can be found in notes 5 and 6. For 2012, the non–underlying items charge of £51.3 million is shown net of  
£10.3 million profit on disposal arising from the sale of the marine business, as shown in note 33.
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 October 2013
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
94 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Note
2013
£m
 2012
£m
(Loss)/profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent (47.5) 15.3
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension schemes 35 0.7 (2.7)
Movement on deferred tax relating to pension schemes 26 (0.9) 0.7
(0.2) (2.0)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 13.6 (20.1)
Deferred tax on exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (1.8) 0.7
11.8 (19.4)
Total comprehensive expense attributable to equity holders of the parent (35.9)  (6.1)
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 October 2013
95
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Special
capital
reserve
£m
Revaluation
reserve
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Own
shares
£m
Total
£m
At 1 November 2012 2.0 230.7 12.9 1.3 (39.6) 235.8 (9.6) 433.5
Loss after tax — — — — — (47.5) — (47.5)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) — — — — 13.6 (2.0) — 11.6
Total comprehensive income/(expense) — — — — 13.6 (49.5) — (35.9)
Ordinary shares issued — — — — — — — —
Dividends paid — — — — — (14.7) — (14.7)
Share–based payments (net of settlement) — — — — — 0.9 — 0.9
At 31 October 2013 2.0 230.7 12.9 1.3 (26.0) 172.5 (9.6) 383.8
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Special
capital
reserve
£m
Revaluation
reserve
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Own
shares
£m
Total
£m
At 1 November 2011 2.0 230.6 12.9 1.4 (19.5) 254.6 (6.6) 475.4
Profit after tax — — — — — 15.3 — 15.3
Other comprehensive expense — — — — (20.1) (1.3) — (21.4)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income — — — — (20.1) 14.0 — (6.1)
Ordinary shares issued — 0.1 — — — — — 0.1
Dividends paid — — — — — (31.1) — (31.1)
Share–based payments (net of settlement) — — — — — (1.8) — (1.8)
Transactions in own shares — — — — — — (3.0) (3.0)
Transfers between reserves — — — (0.1) — 0.1 — —
At 31 October 2012 2.0 230.7 12.9 1.3 (39.6) 235.8 (9.6) 433.5
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 October 2013
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
96 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Note £m
2013
£m £m
2012
£m
Non–current assets
Goodwill 13 168.3 214.8
Development costs 14 32.7 31.0
Other intangible assets 14 135.5 167.4
Property, plant and equipment 15 222.3 240.0
Interest in associate 17 1.5 1.4
Deferred tax 26 21.7 16.9
582.0 671.5
Current assets
Inventories 18 113.7 113.8
Trade and other receivables 19 203.9 193.0
Cash and cash equivalents 20,38 14.2 96.0
Derivative financial instruments 24 1.5 1.0
Assets held for sale 34 6.7 —
340.0 403.8 
Total assets 922.0 1,075.3
Current liabilities
Borrowings 21,38 (0.4) (74.0)
Obligations under finance leases 22 (1.6) (1.7)
Trade and other payables 23 (176.7) (201.5)
Provisions 25 (2.7) (2.8)
Current tax (15.4) (5.2)
Derivative financial instruments 24 (0.4) (0.1)
Liabilities held for sale 34 (1.1) —
(198.3) (285.3)
Non–current liabilities
Borrowings 21,38 (259.4) (262.1)
Obligations under finance leases 22 (1.4) (2.9)
Trade and other payables 23 (2.3) (4.3)
Provisions 25 (10.3) (4.9)
Deferred tax 26 (38.8) (52.7)
Preference shares 27 (0.1) (0.1)
Retirement benefit obligations 35 (25.1) (27.0)
Derivative financial instruments 24 (2.5) (2.5)
(339.9) (356.5)
Total liabilities (538.2) (641.8)
Net assets 383.8 433.5
Equity
Share capital 27 2.0 2.0
Share premium account 230.7 230.7
Special capital reserve 12.9 12.9
Revaluation reserve 1.3 1.3
Translation reserve (26.0) (39.6)
Retained earnings 172.5 235.8
393.4 443.1
Own shares 29 (9.6) (9.6)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 383.8 433.5
Total equity 383.8 433.5
These financial statements of Chemring Group PLC (registered number 86662) were approved and authorised for issue by the 
Board of directors on 23 January 2014.
Signed on behalf of the Board
Mark Papworth 
Director 
Steve Bowers 
Director
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 October 2013
97
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Note
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from continuing underlying operations 36 68.6 114.9
Cash generated from discontinued underlying operations 33 — 3.3
Cash generated from underlying operations 36 68.6 118.2
Acquisition and disposal related costs 32 (3.8) (5.5)
Business restructuring and incident costs 5 (8.9) (10.1)
55.9 102.6
Tax paid (0.5) (6.1)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 55.4 96.5
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends received from associate — 0.1
Purchases of intangible assets (7.4) (11.0)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (12.3) (30.1)
Receipt of finance income 0.2 —
Receipts from sales of businesses (net of cash transferred) 33 — 21.8
Net cash outflow from investing activities (19.5) (19.2)
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid 11 (14.7) (31.1)
Finance expense paid (20.6) (23.8)
New borrowings — 12.5
Capitalised facility fees paid (1.7) —
Repayments of borrowings (79.1) (23.0)
Repayments of finance leases (1.7) (1.8)
Purchase of own shares 29 — (4.8)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (117.8) (72.0)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (81.9) 5.3
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 96.0 91.9
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.1 (1.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 20,38 14.2 96.0
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 October 2013
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
98 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Notes to the group financial statements
1. General information
Chemring Group PLC is a company incorporated in England 
and Wales under registration number 86662. The address 
of the registered office is Chemring House, 1500 Parkway, 
Whiteley, Fareham, Hampshire, PO15 7AF. The nature of the 
Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in 
note 5 and in the directors’ report on pages 50 to 53. These 
financial statements are the consolidated financial statements 
of Chemring Group PLC and its subsidiaries (“the Group”).
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and 
rounded to the nearest £0.1 million. Foreign operations are 
included in accordance with the policy set out in note 3.
Going concern
The directors have, at the time of approving the financial 
statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group and the 
Company have adequate resources to continue to adopt the 
going concern basis of accounting in preparing these financial 
statements. Further detail is contained in the statement on 
going concern on page 32.
2. Adoption of new and revised standards
In the year ended 31 October 2013, the following revised 
standard was adopted and has affected the amounts reported 
in these financial statements:
• Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements 
(amended June 2011). 
The Group has applied the amendments titled Presentation of 
Items of Other Comprehensive Income to IAS 1 in advance of 
the effective date (annual periods beginning on or after  
1 July 2012). The amendment increases the required level of 
disclosure within the statement of comprehensive income.
The impact of this amendment has been to analyse items 
within the statement of comprehensive income between 
items that will not be reclassified subsequently to the income 
statement and items that will be reclassified subsequently 
to the income statement in accordance with the respective 
IFRS to which the item relates. The amendments have been 
applied retrospectively, and hence the presentation of items 
in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income has 
been restated to reflect the change. Other than the above 
mentioned presentation changes, the application of IAS 1 
does not result in any impact on profit or loss, comprehensive 
income and total comprehensive income. 
The following IFRIC interpretations, amendments to existing 
standards and new standards were adopted in the year ended 
31 October 2013 but have not impacted the reported results 
or the financial position:
• Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures; 
and
• Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Changes in accounting policies
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the 
following standards and interpretations that are potentially 
relevant to the Group and which have not been applied in 
these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective 
(and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the  
European Union):
• IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement;
• IAS 19 (Revised) Employee Benefits;
• Annual Improvements to IFRSs (2009 - 2011) Cycle;
• IFRS 7 (amended) Disclosures - Offsetting Financial Assets 
and Liabilities;
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments;
• IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 12 
Investment Entities, IAS 27 (Revised) Separate Financial 
Instruments;
• IAS 36 (amended) Recoverable Amount Disclosures for 
Non–Financial Assets;
• IAS 39 (amended) Novation of Derivatives and Continuation 
of Hedge Accounting; and
• IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies.
The directors do not expect that the adoption of these 
standards and interpretations will have a material impact 
on the financial statements of the Group in future periods, 
except as follows:
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will impact both the 
measurement and disclosures of financial instruments;
• IFRS 7 (amended) Disclosures - Offsetting Financial Assets 
and Liabilities will increase the disclosure requirements 
where netting–off procedures are in place for financial assets 
and financial liabilities;
• IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 
Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Investment Entities, IAS 
27 (Revised) Separate Financial Instruments and IAS 28 
(Revised) Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures - 
these will restrict the presentation options of the results of 
joint ventures, which the Group expects to enter into, in the 
financial statements; and
• IAS 19 (Revised) Employee Benefits - this will impact the 
measurement of the various components representing 
movements in the defined benefit pensions obligations 
and associated disclosures, but not for the Group's total 
obligation.
Beyond this information, it is not practicable to provide a 
reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a 
detailed review has been completed.
99
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
3. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRS adopted for use in the European Union. These will 
be those IAS, IFRS and related interpretations (Standing 
Interpretations Committee International Financial Reporting 
Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”) interpretations), 
subsequent amendments to those standards and related 
interpretations, future standards and related interpretations 
issued or adopted by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IASB) that have been endorsed by the European 
Commission (collectively referred to as IFRS). These are 
subject to ongoing review and endorsement by the European 
Commission or possible amendment by interpretive guidance 
from the IASB and the IFRIC, and are therefore still subject to 
change.
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore the 
group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU 
IAS Regulation. The particular accounting policies adopted 
have been applied consistently throughout the current and 
previous years and are described below.
Accounting convention
The financial statements are prepared under the historical 
cost convention, except for the revaluation of certain 
properties and financial instruments.
Basis of consolidation
The group financial statements consolidate those of the 
Company and all of its subsidiaries. A subsidiary undertaking 
is an entity over which the Group has the power to govern the 
financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from its 
activities. The results of subsidiaries acquired are consolidated 
from the date on which control passes to the Group and the 
results of disposed subsidiaries are consolidated up to the date 
on which control passes from the Group.
The Company and all of its subsidiaries make up their 
financial statements to the same date. All intra–group 
transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated 
on consolidation.
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated before the share of results of 
associates and before finance income and expense. 
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for 
goods and services provided in the normal course of business, 
net of discounts, VAT and other revenue related taxes.
Sale of goods
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when all of the 
following conditions are satisfied:
• the Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks 
and rewards of ownership, typically on formal acceptance;
• the Group retains neither continuing managerial 
involvement to the degree usually associated with 
ownership nor effective control over the goods sold;
• the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;
• it is probable that the economic benefits associated with 
the transaction will flow to the Group; and 
• the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the 
transaction can be measured reliably. 
Rendering of services
Revenue from a contract to provide services is recognised by 
reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
Contract accounting
For appropriate contracts, when the outcome can be 
estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by 
reference to the stage of completion at the balance sheet 
date. This is normally measured by the proportion of contract 
costs incurred for work performed to date against the 
estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be 
representative of the actual stage of completion. Variations 
in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included 
to the extent that the amounts can be measured reliably and 
their receipt is considered probable.
When the outcome of such contracts cannot be estimated 
reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of 
contract costs incurred where it is probable they will be 
recoverable. Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the 
period in which they are incurred. When it is probable that 
total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the 
expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Investment income
Dividend income from investments is recognised when 
the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been 
established (provided that the economic benefits will flow 
to the Group and the amount of income can be measured 
reliably).
Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the 
economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of 
revenue can be measured reliably. Interest income is accrued 
on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and 
at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that 
exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the 
expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying 
amount on initial recognition.
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
100 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Acquisitions and disposals
On acquisition of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled 
entity, the cost is measured as the fair value of the 
consideration. The assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
of subsidiary undertakings that meet the IFRS 3 (revised 
2008) Business Combinations recognition criteria are 
measured at the fair value at the date of acquisition, except 
that:
• deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets 
relating to employee benefit arrangements are recognised 
and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and 
IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively;
• liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement 
by the Group of an acquiree’s share–based payment awards 
are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share–based 
Payments; and
• assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for 
sale, in accordance with IFRS 5 Non–current Assets Held 
for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in 
accordance with that standard.
Where cost exceeds fair value of the net assets acquired, the 
difference is recorded as goodwill.
Where the fair value of the net assets exceeds the cost, the 
difference is recorded directly in the income statement. The 
accounting policies of subsidiary undertakings are changed 
where necessary to be consistent with those of the Group.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is 
incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the 
combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts 
for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Those 
provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement 
period (see below), or additional assets or liabilities 
recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts 
and circumstances that existed as at the acquisition date that, 
if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as at 
that date.
The measurement period is from the date of acquisition to the 
date the Group obtains complete information about facts and 
circumstances that existed as at the acquisition date, subject 
to a maximum period of one year. 
In accordance with IFRS 3 (Revised) Business Combinations, 
acquisition costs are expensed through the income statement. 
Acquisition and disposal related costs refer to external costs 
incurred in acquiring and disposing of companies, together 
with the costs of aborted bids and the establishment of joint 
ventures.
Non–current assets held for sale
Non–current assets and disposal groups classified as held for 
sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair 
value less costs to sell.
Non–current assets and disposal groups are classified as held 
for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through 
a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. This 
condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly 
probable and the asset or disposal group is available for 
immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be 
committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify 
for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the 
date of classification.
Intangible assets
Goodwill
The purchased goodwill of the Group is regarded as having 
an indefinite useful economic life and, in accordance with 
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, is not amortised but is subject 
to annual tests for impairment. On disposal of a subsidiary, 
associate or jointly controlled entity, the amount attributable 
to goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or 
loss on disposal.
Acquired intangibles
For acquisitions after 1 November 2004, the Group 
recognises separately from goodwill, intangible assets 
that are separable or arise from contractual or other legal 
rights and whose fair value can be measured reliably. These 
intangible assets are amortised at rates calculated to write 
down their cost or valuation to their estimated residual values 
by equal instalments over their estimated useful economic 
lives, which are:
Technology - average of ten years
Customer relationships - average of ten years
Order books - average of two years 
Development costs
Development costs that qualify as intangible assets are 
capitalised as incurred and, once the relevant intangible asset 
is ready for use, are amortised on a straight–line basis over 
their estimated useful lives, averaging three years  
(2012: three years). 
Patents and licences
Patents and licences are measured initially at purchase 
cost and are amortised on a straight–line basis over their 
estimated useful lives, averaging seven years  
(2012: ten years).
Property, plant and equipment
Other than historically revalued land and buildings, property, 
plant and equipment is held at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. Borrowing 
costs on significant capital expenditure projects are 
capitalised and allocated to the cost of the project. No  
101
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
3. Accounting policies (continued) 
depreciation is provided on freehold land. On other assets, 
depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write down 
their cost or valuation to their estimated residual values by 
equal instalments over their estimated useful economic lives, 
which are:
Freehold buildings - up to fifty years
Leasehold buildings - the period of the lease
Plant and equipment - up to ten years
Investments in associates 
The results and the assets and liabilities of associates are 
accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Any 
excess of the cost of investment over the Group’s share 
of the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities within 
the associate at the date of acquisition is accounted for 
as goodwill that is included in the carrying value of the 
investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that 
investment. 
Impairment of non–current assets
Assets that have indefinite lives are allocated to the 
Group’s cash–generating units and tested for impairment 
at least annually. Assets that are subject to depreciation or 
amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever changes 
in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be 
recoverable. To the extent that the carrying value exceeds 
the recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recorded for 
the difference as an expense in the income statement. The 
recoverable amount used for impairment testing is the higher 
of the value–in–use and the asset's fair value less costs of 
disposal. For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are 
grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately 
identifiable cash flows.
Inventories
Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net 
realisable value. Cost represents materials, direct labour, 
other direct costs and related production overheads, and is 
determined using the “first–in, first–out” (“FIFO”) method. 
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less 
further costs expected to be incurred to completion and 
disposal.
Provision is made for slow moving, obsolete and defective 
items where appropriate.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of qualifying assets, which are 
assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to 
prepare for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost 
of those assets, until such time as the assets are subsequently 
ready for their intended use or sale. Once the assets are ready 
for their intended use, these capitalised borrowing costs are 
depreciated in line with the underlying asset.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of 
specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying 
assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for 
capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income 
statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Government grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is 
reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the 
conditions attaching to them and that the grants will be 
received.
The benefit of a government loan at a below–market rate of 
interest is treated as a government grant, measured as the 
difference between proceeds received and the fair value of 
the loan based on prevailing market interest rates.
Government grants towards staff retraining costs are 
recognised as income over the periods necessary to match 
them with the related costs and are deducted in reporting the 
related expense.
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment 
are treated as deferred income and released to the income 
statement over the expected useful lives of the assets 
concerned.
Tax
The tax expense represents the sum of current tax payable 
and deferred tax.
Current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year. 
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income 
statement because it excludes items of income or expense 
that are taxable or deductible in other years, and it excludes 
items of income or expense that are never taxable or 
deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated 
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax represents amounts expected to be payable or 
recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the 
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable 
profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability 
method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for 
all taxable temporary differences, and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable taxable profits will 
be available in the future against which deductible temporary 
differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not 
recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill 
or from the initial recognition (other than in a business 
combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction 
that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting 
profit.
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
102 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and 
associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where 
the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary 
difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will 
not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at 
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it 
is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be 
available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the 
asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the 
income statement, except where it relates to items charged 
or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is 
also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a 
legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities, when they relate to income taxed by the 
same tax authority, and the Group intends to settle its current 
tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Special capital reserve
The special capital reserve was created as part of a capital 
reduction scheme involving the cancellation of the share 
premium account which was approved by the Court in 1986, 
in accordance with the requirements of the  
Companies Act 1985.
Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group company 
are presented in the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which it operates (its functional currency). 
For the purpose of these financial statements, the results 
and financial position of each Group company are expressed 
in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the 
Company, and the presentation currency for these financial 
statements.
In preparing the financial statements of each Group company, 
transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional 
currency (foreign currencies) are recorded at the rates of 
exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each 
balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are 
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the 
rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non–monetary 
items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign 
currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date 
when the fair value was determined. Non–monetary items 
that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign 
currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary 
items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are 
included in the income statement for the period.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange 
risks, the Group enters into forward foreign exchange 
contracts and forward currency structures which are 
accounted for as derivative financial instruments (see below 
for details of the Group’s accounting policies in respect of 
such derivative financial instruments).
For the purpose of presenting these financial statements, the 
assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are 
translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet 
date. Income and expense items are translated at the average 
exchange rates for the period.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition 
of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the 
foreign entity and translated at the closing rate. 
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s 
balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at 
their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for 
estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and 
demand deposits, and other short–term highly liquid 
investments that are readily convertible to a known amount 
of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of change in 
value.
Financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified 
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements 
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that 
evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after 
deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption, 
and direct issue costs are accounted for on an accruals basis 
to the income statement using the effective interest method, 
and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to 
the extent that they are not settled in the period in which 
they arise.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their 
nominal value. 
103
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
3. Accounting policies (continued) 
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks 
of interest rate and foreign currency transactions, and it uses 
derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to 
these transactional risks. The Group uses interest rate swap 
contracts, forward foreign exchange contracts and other 
forward currency structures to reduce these exposures and 
does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative 
purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value 
at the date the derivative contract is entered into and are 
revalued at fair value at each balance sheet date. The method 
by which any gain or loss is recognised depends on whether 
the instrument is designated a hedging instrument or not. To 
be designated as a hedging instrument, the instrument must 
be documented as such at inception, and must be assessed 
at inception and on an ongoing basis to be highly effective 
in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged 
items.
Hedge accounting principles are used for forward foreign 
exchange contracts and interest rate swaps where 
appropriate, with movements in fair value taken to equity 
for cash flow hedges and the income statement for fair 
value hedges, until such time as the underlying amounts 
of the contract mature. At maturity or disposal of the net 
investment, the amounts held in equity will be recycled to the 
income statement. Changes in fair value of any ineffective 
portion of net investment hedges and interest rate swaps are 
recognised in the income statement immediately. The fair 
values of derivative financial instruments are calculated by 
third party valuers.
Where derivative financial instruments do not meet the 
criteria for hedge accounting, the changes in fair value are 
immediately recognised in the income statement.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the 
effective portion of the hedge is recognised in the statement 
of comprehensive income and accumulated in the translation 
reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is 
recognised immediately in the income statement.
Embedded derivative financial instruments
Embedded derivative financial instruments that are not 
closely related to the host contract are treated as separate 
derivative financial instruments, with unrealised gains and 
losses reported in the income statement.
Retirement benefit costs
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit 
schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. For 
defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is 
determined using the projected unit credit method, with 
actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet 
date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the 
period in which they occur. They are recognised outside of 
the income statement and are presented in the statement of 
comprehensive income.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that 
the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised 
on a straight–line basis over the average period until the 
benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance 
sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, 
and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset 
resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, 
plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in 
future contributions to the scheme.
Leased assets
Where the Group enters into a lease which entails taking 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an 
asset, the lease is treated as a finance lease. The asset 
is recorded in the balance sheet as property, plant and 
equipment, and is depreciated over the shorter of the 
estimated useful economic life of the asset and the lease 
term. Future instalments under such leases, net of finance 
charges, are included in creditors. The finance element of the 
instalments is charged to the income statement at a constant 
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation.
All other leases are operating leases, for which rental charges 
are taken to the income statement on a straight–line basis 
over the life of the lease.
Share–based compensation
The Group operates equity settled and cash settled  
share–based compensation schemes.
For grants made under the Group’s share–based 
compensation schemes, the fair value of an award is 
measured at the date of grant and reflects any market–based 
vesting conditions. Non–market based vesting conditions 
are excluded from the fair value of the award. At the date of 
grant, the Company estimates the number of awards expected 
to vest as a result of non–market based vesting conditions, 
and the fair value of this estimated number of awards is 
recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account on a 
straight–line basis over the vesting period. At each balance 
sheet date, the impact of any revision to vesting estimates is 
recognised in the income statement over the vesting period. 
Proceeds received, net of any directly attributable transaction 
costs, are credited to share capital and share premium.
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
104 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
For cash settled share–based grants, the total amount 
recognised is based on the fair value of the liability incurred. 
The fair value of the liability is remeasured at each balance 
sheet date, with changes in the fair value recognised in the 
income statement for the period.
Post balance sheet events
In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet 
Date, the Group continues to disclose events that it considers 
material, non–disclosure of which can influence the economic 
decisions of users of the financial statements.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of 
estimation uncertainty
When applying the Group’s accounting policies, management 
must make assumptions and estimates concerning the future 
that affect the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
at the balance sheet date and the amounts of revenue and 
expenses recognised during the period. Such assumptions 
and estimates are based upon factors such as historical 
experience, the observance of trends in the industries in 
which the Group operates, and information available from the 
Group’s customers and other outside sources.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key 
sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date 
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment 
to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the 
next financial year include:
Assessment of contract accounting
The Group has contracts that fall into different accounting 
periods. In assessing the allocation of revenues and costs to 
individual accounting periods, and the consequential assets 
and liabilities, the Group estimates the total revenues and 
costs forecast to arise in respect of the contract and the 
stage of completion based on an appropriate measure of 
performance as described under the revenue recognition 
policy on page 100. The Group utilises assumptions and 
projections, principally relating to future material, labour 
and overhead costs. As a consequence, there is a risk that 
total contract costs will exceed those originally estimated 
and the margin will decrease. Changes to initial assumptions, 
which are reviewed on a regular basis, may result in revisions 
to estimated costs and anticipated margins. These are 
recognised in the period in which the estimated costs are 
determined. The determination of appropriate accounting 
policies for recognising revenue and costs in respect of  
these contracts requires judgment, in particular  
(i) whether contract accounting is the most appropriate 
method of recognising revenue on these contracts; and (ii) the 
appropriate measure of stage of completion of the contract.
Goodwill impairment
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an 
estimation of the value–in–use of the cash–generating units 
to which goodwill has been allocated. The value–in–use 
calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash 
flows expected to arise from the cash–generating unit, and 
to determine a suitable discount rate in order to calculate 
present value (see note 13). In reviewing the carrying 
value of goodwill of the Group’s various businesses, the 
Board has considered the separate plans and cash flows 
of these businesses consistent with the requirements of 
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets. The plans and cash flows of 
these businesses have factored in the possible impacts of 
sequestration and continuing resolution in the US and the 
difficult economic conditions for the defence industry in 
general.
Tax
The largest category of deferred tax asset which contains 
significant estimation uncertainty and which requires 
management judgment in assessing its recoverability relates 
to tax losses carried forward (see note 26).
Applicable accounting standards permit the recognition of 
deferred tax assets only to the extent that it is probable that 
future taxable profits will be available to utilise the tax losses 
carried forward. The assessment of future taxable profits 
involves significant estimation uncertainty, principally relating 
to an assessment of management’s projections of future 
taxable income based on business plans and ongoing tax 
planning strategies. These projections include assumptions 
about the future strategy of the Group, the economic and 
regulatory environment in which the Group operates, future 
tax legislation, and customer behaviour, amongst other 
variables (see note 26 for details of tax losses on which 
deferred tax assets have not been recognised).
Assets and liabilities acquired under business 
combinations
Under IFRS 3 (Revised) Business Combinations, it is necessary 
to separately identify and value any acquired intangible 
assets. In order to ascertain the values of the separate 
assets, it is necessary for management to estimate the future 
cash flows attributable to the assets and estimate their 
useful economic lives (see note 14). Assets and liabilities 
are recognised on acquisition when relevant, which include 
deferred tax assets on losses (see note 26).
105
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
3. Accounting policies (continued) 
Pensions
The liability recognised in relation to retirement benefit 
obligations is dependent on a number of assumptions, 
including discount rate, mortality rate, salary increases and 
inflation. Any change in these assumptions would change the 
amount recognised (see note 35).
Legal
The Group is subject to legal proceedings and other claims 
arising in the ordinary course of business. The Group is 
required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or 
outcomes, as well as potential ranges of probable losses. A 
determination of the amount of reserves required for these 
matters is based on a careful analysis of each individual issue 
with the assistance of outside legal counsel. However, actual 
claims incurred could differ from the original estimates.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present 
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, 
it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that 
obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount 
of the obligation. The amount recognised as a provision is 
the best estimate of the consideration required to settle 
the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking 
into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the 
obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash 
flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying 
amount is the present value of those cash flows.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle 
a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, 
a receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain 
that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the 
receivable can be measured reliably.
Environmental provisions
Where the Group is liable for decontamination work or the 
restoration of sites to their original condition, an estimate 
is made of the costs needed to complete these works, 
discounted back to present values where appropriate, 
relying upon independent expert third party valuers where 
appropriate. 
 
Restructuring provisions
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has 
developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring, and 
has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will 
carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan 
or announcing its main features to those affected by it. The 
measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the 
direct expenditures arising from the restructuring and not 
those associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Warranties
Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations 
under local sale of goods legislation are recognised at the 
date of sale of the relevant products, based upon the best 
estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Group’s 
obligation. 
Non–GAAP information
In the analysis of the Group's financial performance and 
position, operating results and cash flows, information is 
presented to provide readers with additional information 
that is prepared on a non–GAAP basis and which is regularly 
reviewed by management. However, this additional 
information is not uniformly defined by all companies and 
so may not be comparable with similarly titled measures 
and disclosures by other companies. Additionally, certain 
information presented is derived from amounts calculated in 
accordance with IFRS but is not itself an expressly permitted 
GAAP measure. Such non–GAAP measures should not be 
viewed in isolation or as an alternative to the equivalent 
GAAP measure.
Contingent liabilities
The Group exercises judgment in recognising exposures 
to contingent liabilities related to pending litigation or 
other outstanding claims subject to negotiated settlement, 
mediation, arbitration or government regulation, as well as 
other contingent liabilities. Judgment may be necessary in 
assessing the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or 
a liability will arise, and/or to quantify the possible range of 
the financial settlement.
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
106 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
4. Revenue
All of the Group’s revenue is derived from the sale of goods, including revenue recognised in respect of contract–accounted 
arrangements, and provision of services. The following table provides an analysis of the Group’s revenue by destination:
Revenue by destination
2013
£m
2012
£m
Continuing operations
UK 109.9 112.0
USA 280.7 348.5
Europe 60.5 84.8
Australia and Far East 44.6 60.4
Middle East 123.8 120.5
Rest of the world 5.4 14.1
624.9 740.3
Discontinued operations
UK — 1.0
USA — 2.5
Europe — 6.7
Australia and Far East — 3.4
Rest of the world — 1.5
— 15.1
624.9 755.4
Revenue from contract accounting in the above figures amounted to £240.5 million (2012: £275.8 million). The decrease since 
2012 reflects the decline in revenue compared to the prior year.
In addition to the revenues shown above, finance income of £0.2 million (2012: £0.1 million) has been recognised.
The directors consider the only countries that are significant in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments are the USA  
and the UK, as disclosed above, and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, which is included within the Middle East category. Sales to 
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia generated revenue of £97.6 million (2012: £92.8 million).
5. Business segments
IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of 
the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Chief Executive and the Board of directors to allocate resources to the segments 
and to assess their performance. For management purposes, the Group's operating and reporting structure has been revised 
during the year to better cluster similar businesses together within the following four operating segments - Countermeasures, 
Sensors & Electronics, Pyrotechnics & Munitions, and Energetic Sub–Systems. These segments are the basis on which the Group 
reports its segmental information. The principal activities of each segment are as follows:
Countermeasures Expendable active and passive countermeasures for naval and air platforms and 
land–based electronic warfare equipment.
Sensors & Electronics IED detection equipment, chemical and biological threat detection equipment, 
IED electronic countermeasures, explosive ordnance disposal equipment and 
demilitarisation services.
Pyrotechnics & Munitions Signals and illumination devices and payloads, cartridge/propellant actuated 
devices, pyrotechnic devices for satellite launch and deployment, missile and 
ammunition components, propellants, warheads, fuzes, medium and large–calibre 
ammunition.
Energetic Sub–Systems Separation sub–systems, actuators and energetic materials.
107
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
5. Business segments (continued)
A segmental analysis of revenue and operating profit is set out below:
Revenue
2013
£m
2012
£m
Continuing operations
Countermeasures 125.0 163.2
Sensors & Electronics 211.3 228.9
Pyrotechnics & Munitions 200.6 249.5
Energetic Sub–Systems 88.0 98.7
624.9 740.3
Discontinued operations
Pyrotechnics & Munitions — 15.1
624.9 755.4
Underlying operating profit
2013
£m
2012
£m
Continuing operations
Countermeasures 13.2 20.4
Sensors & Electronics 44.7 44.9
Pyrotechnics & Munitions 13.0 21.2
Energetic Sub–Systems 11.3 12.3
82.2 98.8
Unallocated corporate costs (10.1) (10.5)
72.1 88.3
Discontinued operations
Pyrotechnics & Munitions — 3.1
Underlying operating profit including discontinued operations 72.1 91.4
Acquisition and disposal related costs (see note 32) (3.2) (8.2)
Business restructuring and incident costs (see note 5) (11.7) (11.9)
Profit on disposal of business (see note 33) — 10.3
Impairment of goodwill (see note 13) (50.9) (22.5)
Impairment of acquired intangibles (see notes 13 and 14) (15.7) —
Impairment of assets held for sale (see note 34) (8.8) —
Intangible amortisation arising from business combinations (see note 14) (18.8) (20.9)
Gain on the movement in the fair value of derivative financial instruments (see note 24) 0.1 1.9
Non–underlying items (109.0) (51.3)
Operating (loss)/profit from continuing operations (36.9) 37.0
Share of profit after tax of associate — 0.1
Finance income 0.2 0.1
Finance expense (19.9) (18.4)
(Loss)/profit before tax from continuing operations (56.6) 18.8
Tax 9.1 (5.6)
(Loss)/profit after tax from continuing operations (47.5) 13.2
Profit after tax from discontinued operations — 2.1
(Loss)/profit after tax for the year (47.5) 15.3
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in note 3. 
Segment profit represents the profit earned by each segment, without allocation of corporate costs including directors’ salaries, 
non–underlying items, the share of profit of associates, finance income and expense, and tax. This is the measure reported to 
the Group Chief Executive for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance. 
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
108 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Unallocated corporate costs
Unallocated corporate costs were £10.1 million (2012: £10.5 million), with the reduction due largely to the saving of costs 
associated with the Group’s former London office which was vacated in late 2012.
Intra–group transactions
There are no material intra–group transactions included within the figures for revenue and profit disclosed in this note.
Business restructuring and incident costs
In 2013, restructuring costs of £11.7 million related to a major simplification of the divisional management structure  
(£4.4 million), business unit integration and restructuring (£5.5 million), excess property costs (£1.1 million) and incident and 
other costs (£0.7 million). There is a £2.8 million difference between the expense in the income statement and the amount 
appearing in the cash flow statement due to the timing of payments and non–cash movements. In 2012, restructuring costs 
related to the closure of the Group’s Marshall, Texas site (£3.3 million), the restructuring of the Group’s US countermeasures 
businesses (£2.5 million), the restructuring of the Group’s UK operations (£2.6 million), and an additional £1.5 million relating 
to several smaller restructuring projects. There were also a number of Board changes during the year, resulting in associated 
costs of £2.0 million. The balance of the costs related to recruitment, and various other legal and professional fees. 
The following table shows an analysis of non–underlying items by segment:
Non–underlying items by segment
2013
£m
2012
£m
Countermeasures 2.6 3.3
Sensors & Electronics 9.7 8.9
Pyrotechnics & Munitions 8.5 8.9
Energetic Sub–Systems 79.9 21.9
Non–segmental 8.3 8.3
109.0 51.3
Information about major customers
Included in segmental revenues are revenues of £206.7 million (2012: £289.6 million) and £84.1 million (2012: £89.7 million), 
which arose from sales to the Group’s two largest customers respectively. The largest customer had sales reported in all four 
of the Group’s business segments, whilst sales to the second largest customer primarily arose in the Pyrotechnics & Munitions 
segment. These were the only individual customers where direct sales account for more than 10% of Group revenue for the 
year.
The Group does not disclose assets or liabilities by segment in the monthly management accounts provided to the Executive 
Committee or the Board of directors. The Improvements to IFRSs amendment document issued in April 2009 only requires to be 
disclosed that information that is provided to the chief operating decision maker as a key decision making tool. The Group has 
adopted this amendment in order to clarify that the chief operating decision maker does not use this information as a key decision 
tool. IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires a geographic analysis of non–current assets, and a disclosure of non–current assets by 
location is therefore shown below:
Non–current assets by location
2013
£m
2012
£m
UK 222.8 219.7
USA 195.8 283.6
Europe 136.8 138.7
Australia and Far East 26.6 29.5
582.0 671.5
109
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
6. Operating profit
The following table shows an analysis of operating profit from continuing operations:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Revenue from continuing operations 624.9 740.3
Cost of sales (438.1) (552.5)
Administrative expenses (114.7) (99.5)
Acquisition and disposal related costs (see note 32) (3.2) (8.2)
Business restructuring and incident costs (see note 5) (11.7) (11.9)
Profit on disposal of business (see note 33) — 10.3
Impairment of goodwill (see note 13) (50.9) (22.5)
Impairment of acquired intangibles (see notes 13 and 14) (15.7) —
Impairment of assets held for sale (see note 34) (8.8) —
Intangible amortisation arising from business combinations (see note 14) (18.8) (20.9)
Gain on the movement in the fair value of derivative financial instruments (see note 24) 0.1 1.9
Non–underlying items (109.0) (51.3)
Operating (loss)/profit from continuing operations (36.9) 37.0
Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting):
2013
£m
2012
£m
Research and development costs - customer–funded 27.1 34.4
- internally–funded 11.5 12.3
Amortisation - arising from business combinations 18.8 20.9
- development costs 5.5 4.3
- patents and licences 0.4 0.3
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment - owned assets 19.8 15.8
- leased assets 0.3 0.1
Loss on disposal of non–current assets 2.2 3.4
Operating lease rentals - plant and machinery 2.5 1.1
- other 1.0 0.8
Government grants (0.1) —
Foreign exchange losses 0.8 4.1
Staff costs (see note 7) 172.6 189.8
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 266.1 364.8
Acquisition and disposal related costs (see note 32) 3.2 8.2
Business restructuring and incident costs (see note 5) 11.7 11.9
Profit on disposal of business (see note 33) — (10.3)
Impairment of goodwill (see note 13) 50.9 22.5
Impairment of acquired intangibles (see notes 13 and 14) 15.7 —
Impairment of assets held for sale (see note 34) 8.8 —
Auditor's remuneration (see opposite) 1.7 1.2
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
110 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
A detailed analysis of the auditor's remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below:
Auditor's remuneration
2013
£m
2012
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for: 
- the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.5 0.4
- the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.4
0.9 0.8
Other services
Audit–related assurance services 0.1 0.1
Tax services - compliance 0.3 0.1
Tax services - advisory 0.2 0.2
Corporate finance services 0.2 —
0.8 0.4
1.7 1.2
Included in the fees for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts is £0.2 million (2012: £0.1 million) in respect of the parent 
company.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the corporate governance report on pages 61 and 63, and 
includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non–audit services are provided by 
the auditor. No services were provided by the auditor pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
During the year, the Group incurred professional fees with other accountancy firms for the provision of corporate finance 
services of £nil (2012: £1.0 million).
7. Staff costs
The average monthly number of employees (including executive directors) was:
2013
Number
2012
Number
Production 3,057 3,332
Administration, sales and marketing 850 883
3,907 4,215
At the year end, the number of employees was 3,693 (2012: 4,193).
The costs incurred in respect of these employees (including share–based payments) were: 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Wages and salaries 146.2 160.3
Social security costs 19.9 21.9
Other pension costs 6.5 7.6
 172.6 189.8
There has been a decrease in total wages and salaries since 2012, reflecting the fall in average employee numbers.
111
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
8. finance income
2013
£m
2012
£m
Bank interest 0.2 0.1 
9. finance expense
2013
£m
2012
£m
Bank overdraft and loan interest 5.1 4.0
Loan notes interest 15.0 15.1
Medium term loan interest — 1.0
Finance lease interest 0.3 0.3
Amortisation of debt finance costs 2.0 1.6
Unwinding of discount on provisions — 0.2
Interest cost of retirement benefit obligations (see note 35) 0.5 0.8
Capitalised interest on qualifying assets (see note 15) (3.0) (4.6)
19.9 18.4
Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets are calculated by applying a rate of 7% (2012: 7%) to expenditure on 
such assets.
10. Tax
2013
£m
2012
£m
Current tax charge (12.3) (5.7)
Deferred tax credit (see note 26) 21.4 0.1
Current year tax credit/(charge) for continuing operations 9.1 (5.6)
The tax charge relating to discontinued operations amounted to £nil (2012: £0.5 million).
Income tax in the UK is calculated at 23.4% (2012: 24.9%) of the taxable profit for the year. Tax for other jurisdictions is 
calculated at the rates prevailing in those jurisdictions.
The total tax credit/(charge) from continuing operations can be reconciled to the income statement as follows: 
2013
£m
2012
£m
(Loss)/profit before tax from continuing operations (56.6) 18.8
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 23.4% (2012: 24.9%) 13.2 (4.7)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes (9.9) (2.5)
Changes in tax rates 0.7 2.1
Research and development tax relief 0.5 1.3
Utilisation and recognition of tax losses 1.1 (3.0)
Non–taxable disposal of business — 5.2
Prior period adjustments 0.4 3.5
Overseas profits taxed at rates different to the UK standard rate 3.1 (7.5)
Total tax credit/(charge) from continuing operations 9.1 (5.6)
In addition to the tax credit/(charge) in the income statement, a tax charge of £2.7 million (2012: £1.4 million credit) has been 
recognised in equity in the year.
The effective rate of tax on the profit/(loss) before tax of the Group is 16.1% (2012: 28.4%), and the effective rate of tax on the 
underlying profit before tax of the Group is 20.2% (2012: 21.5%). The decrease in the statutory effective rate is primarily as a 
result of the tax treatment of exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
112 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
11. Dividends
2013
£m
2012
£m
Dividends on ordinary shares of 1p each
Final dividend for the year ended 31 October 2012: 4.2p (2011: 10.8p) 8.1 20.8
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 October 2013: 3.4p (2012: 5.3p) 6.6 10.3
Total dividends 14.7 31.1
The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 October 2013 of 3.8p per share will, if approved, have a total value 
of approximately £7.3 million of shareholders’ funds. This proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting and accordingly has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Dividends declared on ordinary shares of 1p each
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 October 2013: 3.4p (2012: 5.3p) 6.6 10.3
Final dividend for the year ended 31 October 2013: 3.8p (2012: 4.2p) 7.3 8.1
Total dividends declared 13.9 18.4
12. Earnings per share
Earnings per share are based on the average number of shares in issue, excluding own shares held, of 193,292,820  
(2012: 193,309,230) and the loss on continuing ordinary activities after tax of £47.5 million (2012: £13.2 million profit). 
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated using a diluted average number of shares in issue, excluding own shares held,  
of 193,292,820 (2012: 195,792,140) and the loss on continuing ordinary activities after tax of £47.5 million  
(2012: £13.2 million profit). For the year ended 31 October 2013, no dilution has been recognised for the purposes of basic 
earnings per share due to there being a loss per share. Dilution has however been recognised in the calculation of underlying 
earnings per share for the year ended 31 October 2013, using a diluted average number of shares in issue, excluding own 
shares held, of 196,854,505 (2012: 195,792,140).
The earnings and number of shares used in the calculations are as follows:
2013 2012
Ordinary shares
Number
000s
Ordinary shares
Number
000s
Weighted average number of shares used to calculate basic (loss)/earnings per share 193,293 193,309
Additional shares issuable other than at fair value in respect of options outstanding — 2,483
Weighted average number of shares used to calculate diluted (loss)/earnings per share 193,293 195,792
Additional shares issuable other than at fair value in respect of options outstanding 3,562 —
Weighted average number of shares used to calculate diluted underlying earnings per share 196,855 195,792
113
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
12. Earnings per share (continued)
Continuing operations 
2013 2012
Basic
£m
Diluted
£m
Basic
£m
Diluted
£m
Total (loss)/profit after tax (47.5) (47.5) 13.2 13.2
Non–underlying items (see reconciliation below) 89.3 89.3 41.8 41.8
Underlying profit after tax 41.8 41.8 55.0 55.0
2013 2012
Basic
Pence
Diluted
Pence
Basic
Pence
Diluted
Pence
(Loss)/earnings per share (24.6) (24.6) 6.8 6.7
Underlying earnings per share 21.6 21.2 28.5 28.1
Continuing and discontinued operations
2013 2012
Basic
£m
Diluted
£m
Basic
£m
Diluted
£m
Total (loss)/profit after tax (47.5) (47.5) 15.3 15.3
Non–underlying items (see reconciliation below) 89.3 89.3 41.8 41.8
Underlying profit after tax 41.8 41.8 57.1 57.1
2013 2012
Basic
Pence
Diluted
Pence
Basic
Pence
Diluted
Pence
(Loss)/earnings per share (24.6) (24.6) 7.9 7.8
Underlying earnings per share 21.6 21.2 29.6 29.2
Discontinued operations contributed earnings per share of 1.1p in the year ended 31 October 2012. There were no 
discontinued operations in the year ended 31 October 2013.
The number of shares in issue differs from the number held by third parties due to the fact that the Company holds its own 
shares in treasury. Further information on own shares held is given in note 29.
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
114 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Reconciliation of basic profit after tax to underlying profit after tax
Underlying basic earnings are defined as earnings before costs relating to business acquisitions and disposals, business 
restructuring and incident costs, profit on disposal of businesses, items deemed to be of an exceptional nature, impairment of 
goodwill and acquired intangibles, impairment of assets held for sale, amortisation of acquired intangibles and  
gains/losses on the movement in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, net of related tax effects. The directors 
consider this measure of earnings allows a more meaningful comparison of earnings trends. A reconciliation of the total and 
adjusted measures of profit after tax is set out below:
2013
£m
2012
£m
(Loss)/profit after tax (47.5) 15.3
Exclude:
Acquisition and disposal related costs 3.2 8.2
Business restructuring and incident costs 11.7 11.9
Profit on disposal of business — (10.3)
Impairment of goodwill 50.9 22.5
Impairment of acquired intangibles 15.7 —
Impairment of assets held for sale 8.8 —
Intangible amortisation arising from business combinations 18.8 20.9
Gain on the movement in the fair value of derivative financial instruments (0.1) (1.9)
Tax on non–underlying items (19.7) (9.5)
Non–underlying items 89.3 41.8
Underlying profit after tax 41.8 57.1
13. Goodwill 
£m
Cost
At 1 November 2011 243.7
De–recognised on disposal of subsidiary undertakings (see note 33) (3.7)
Foreign exchange adjustments (2.7)
At 31 October 2012 237.3
At 1 November 2012 237.3
Foreign exchange adjustments 2.7
At 31 October 2013 240.0
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 November 2011 —
Impairment (22.5)
At 31 October 2012 (22.5)
At 1 November 2012 (22.5)
Impairment (50.9)
Foreign exchange adjustments 1.7
At 31 October 2013 (71.7)
Carrying amount
At 31 October 2013 168.3
At 31 October 2012 214.8
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the cash–generating units (“CGUs”) that are expected 
to benefit from that business combination. The carrying amount of the goodwill has been allocated to the Group’s principal 
CGUs. 
An analysis of the pre–tax discount rates used and the carrying value of goodwill as at 31 October 2013 by the principal CGUs 
is shown as follows:
115
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
13. Goodwill (continued)
2013 
%
2012 
%
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Simmel Difesa S.p.A. 13.8 13.8 47.2 44.9
Roke Manor Research Limited 10.6 14.0 28.3 28.3
Chemring Energetics UK Limited 12.0 12.8 18.1 18.1
Non–Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. 12.4 15.7 15.5 15.5
Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. 13.8 16.0 13.7 13.7
Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. 11.0 11.9 12.9 12.9
Hi–Shear Technology Corporation 13.9 14.5 — 49.0
Other 32.6 32.4
168.3 214.8
The Group tests goodwill at least annually for impairment. Tests are conducted more frequently if there are indications that 
goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value–in–use calculations. The key assumptions for the value–in–use 
calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to cash flows during the period for 
which management has detailed plans. Management estimates discount rates using pre–tax rates that reflect current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to each of the CGUs.
Pre–tax discount rates, derived from the Group’s post–tax weighted average cost of capital of 7.4% (2012: 7.8%) which has 
adjusted for a premium specific to each of the CGUs to account for differences in currency risk, country risk and other factors 
affecting specific CGUs, have been used to discount projected cash flows. These premiums range from 1% to 3%  
(2012: 1% to 4%).
The calculation has used the Group’s forecast figures for the next five years. At the end of five years, the calculations 
assume the performance of the CGUs will grow at a nominal annual rate of 0.5% in perpetuity. The growth rates are based 
on management’s view of industry growth forecasts. Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices 
and expectations of future changes. The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial forecasts 
approved by management for the next five years, and extrapolates cash flows after that period based on growth as described 
above.
Following a detailed review, impairment losses have been recognised in relation to Hi–Shear of £50.9 million as a consequence 
of lower expectations of future trading performance and cash inflows, which have been informed by the recent integration of 
Hi–Shear with Chemring Energetic Devices, which form part of the Energetic Sub–Systems segment. These lower expectations 
reflect the continuing challenging economic conditions facing the defence industry within the US and the operational issues 
that have been encountered at Hi–Shear. In the year ended 31 October 2012 an impairment of goodwill of £22.5 million was 
recognised in respect of Chemring Ordnance and Chemring Energetic Devices Clear Lake facility. The impairments recognised 
in the consolidated income statement, as part of non–underlying items within continuing operating profit, in respect of goodwill 
and acquired intangibles are as follows: 
Goodwill impairments
2013
£m
2012
£m
Hi–Shear Technology Corporation 50.9 —
Chemring Ordnance, Inc. — 6.8
Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. — 15.7
50.9 22.5
In respect of acquired intangible assets, an impairment of £15.7 million has been made in the year ended 31 October 2013 
in relation to Chemring Energetic Devices' Clear Lake facility, as a result of lower expected cash inflows at this business. This 
reflects the continuing challenging economic conditions facing the defence industry within the US, and the markets served by 
this facility in particular. The value of impairments of acquired intangible assets is as follows:
Acquired intangibles impairment
2013
£m
2012
£m
Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. 15.7 —
The impairment charges were primarily driven by business valuations that were negatively impacted by lower cash flows within 
business plans, reflecting the challenging economic conditions facing the defence industry in the US in particular.
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
116 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Stress testing was performed and indicated that where a 10% fall in the forecast cash flows of the CGUs was modelled Hi–Shear 
would require an additional impairment charge of up to £3.0 million against acquired intangibles, Simmel Difesa would require an 
impairment charge of up to £5.0 million against goodwill, Chemring Detection Systems would require an impairment charge of up 
to £5.0 million against goodwill and Chemring Energetics UK would require an impairment charge of approximately £3.0 million 
against goodwill in these circumstances, but no impairment would be required for any other CGU in this scenario. 
A 1% addition to the discount rate for each CGU was also modelled, and under these circumstances Hi–Shear would require an 
additional impairment charge of up to £3.0 million against acquired intangibles, Simmel Difesa would require an impairment 
charge of up to £4.0 million against goodwill, Chemring Detection Systems would require an impairment charge of up to  
£4.0 million against goodwill and Chemring Energetics UK would require an impairment charge of approximately £3.0 million 
against goodwill. The remaining CGUs would not require any impairment. 
Setting long–term growth rates beyond the five year forecast period to zero would result in Hi–Shear requiring an additional 
impairment charge of up to £1.0 million against acquired intangibles and Chemring Detection Systems requiring an impairment 
charge of approximately £1.0 million against goodwill. The remaining CGUs would not require any impairment.
As part of the business restructuring process, certain businesses are in the process of being combined. We continue to monitor 
CGUs for impairment in light of this, and expect fewer principal CGUs going forward.
14. Other intangible assets
Development 
costs 
£m
Acquired 
order book
£m
Acquired 
technology
£m
Acquired 
customer 
relationships
£m
Patents and 
licences
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 November 2011 30.2 62.8 61.3 131.5 1.7 257.3
Additions 12.3 — — — 0.6 0.6
Disposals (1.2) — — — — —
Transfers between categories (0.4) — — — 0.4 0.4
Impairment — — (0.8) — — (0.8)
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.4 (2.1) 0.4 (2.7) 0.1 (4.3)
At 1 November 2012 41.3 60.7 60.9 128.8 2.8 253.2
Additions 7.4 — — — 0.7 0.7
Disposals (2.6) — — — (0.4) (0.4)
Transfer between categories 0.2 — — — (0.2) (0.2)
Transfer to assets held for sale (0.5) — — — (0.8) (0.8)
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.3 1.9 0.4 2.2 0.1 4.6
At 31 October 2013 46.1 62.6 61.3 131.0 2.2 257.1
Amortisation
At 1 November 2011 6.9 33.4 7.9 23.5 1.0 65.8
Charge 4.3 4.6 5.3 11.0 0.3 21.2
Disposals (0.8) — — — — —
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.1) (1.4) (0.2) 0.2 0.2 (1.2)
At 1 November 2012 10.3 36.6 13.0 34.7 1.5 85.8
Charge 5.5 2.8 5.3 10.7 0.4 19.2
Disposals (1.8) — — — (0.3) (0.3)
Transfer to assets held for sale (0.5) — — — (0.1) (0.1)
Impairment (see note 13) — — — 15.7 — 15.7
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.1) 1.5 — (0.2) — 1.3
At 31 October 2013 13.4 40.9 18.3 60.9 1.5 121.6
Carrying amount
At 31 October 2013 32.7 21.7 43.0 70.1 0.7 135.5
At 31 October 2012 31.0 24.1 47.9 94.1 1.3 167.4
117
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
14. Other intangible assets (continued)
Acquired intangible assets are recognised at fair value on acquisition and are amortised over their estimated useful lives. Fair 
values for acquired intangible assets are assessed by reference to future estimated cash flows, discounted at an appropriate 
rate to present value, or by reference to the amount that would have been paid in an arm’s length transaction between two 
knowledgeable and willing parties. Other intangible assets are recognised at cost and are amortised over their estimated useful 
lives (see note 3).
15. Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and 
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost or valuation
At 1 November 2011 118.4 186.4 304.8
Additions 10.7 23.2 33.9
Disposals (5.0) (9.6) (14.6)
Transfer between categories 1.3 (1.3) —
Foreign exchange adjustments (3.0) (4.3) (7.3)
At 1 November 2012 122.4 194.4 316.8
Additions 4.8 9.4 14.2
Disposals (0.4) (14.3) (14.7)
Transfer between categories (0.6) 0.6 —
Transfer to assets held for sale (see note 34) (3.3) (11.9) (15.2)
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.3 1.6 1.9
At 31 October 2013 123.2 179.8 303.0
Depreciation
At 1 November 2011 13.3 60.4 73.7
Charge 2.7 13.2 15.9
Disposals (2.7) (6.4) (9.1)
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.9) (2.8)  (3.7)
At 1 November 2012 12.4 64.4 76.8
Charge 3.4 16.7 20.1
Disposals (0.1) (13.3) (13.4)
Transfer to assets held for sale (see note 34) (0.3) (13.8) (14.1)
Impairment — 8.8 8.8
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.5 2.0 2.5
At 31 October 2013 15.9 64.8 80.7
Carrying amount
At 31 October 2013 107.3 115.0 222.3
At 31 October 2012 110.0 130.0 240.0
The carrying amount of the Group’s plant and equipment includes £5.7 million (2012: £6.0 million) in respect of assets held 
under finance leases. During the year, £3.0 million (2012: £4.6 million) of interest was capitalised, as set out in  
note 9. In the year, £0.6 million (2012: £0.1 million) of capitalised interest was charged as depreciation on completion of the 
relevant projects. This results in a net book value for capitalised interest of £14.1 million (2012: £11.7 million). 
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
118 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Land and buildings were revalued at 30 September 1997 by Chestertons Chartered Surveyors, independent valuers not 
connected with the Group, on the basis of depreciated replacement cost for two pyrotechnic sites and on open market for the 
remainder.
2013
£m
2012
£m
30 September 1997 depreciated replacement cost 5.8 5.8
Freehold at cost 117.4 116.6
123.2 122.4
If stated under historical cost principles, the comparable amounts for the total of land and buildings would be:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cost 121.2 120.4
Accumulated depreciation (15.2) (11.7)
Historical cost value 106.0 108.7
All other tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost.
The total additions during 2013 of £14.2 million is different to the figure of £12.3 million shown in the cash flow statement, 
due to the application of IAS 23 Borrowing Costs and the timing of payments. 
At 31 October 2013, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 
amounting to £6.5 million (2012: £6.9 million). 
16. Subsidiary undertakings
All subsidiary undertakings have been reflected in these financial statements. The undertakings held at 31 October 2013 
which, in the opinion of the directors, principally affected the results for the year or the net assets of the Group, are shown 
below:
Country of incorporation  
(or registration) 
and operation
% of issued ordinary 
share capital controlled 
by Chemring Group PLC Segment
Subsidiary undertaking
Chemring Countermeasures Limited England 100 Countermeasures
Chemring Defence UK Limited England 100 Pyrotechnics & Munitions
Chemring EOD Limited England 100 Sensors & Electronics
Chemring Prime Contracts Limited England 100 Pyrotechnics & Munitions
Roke Manor Research Limited England 100 Sensors & Electronics
Chemring Energetics UK Limited Scotland 100 Energetic Sub–Systems
Chemring Defence Germany GmbH Germany 100 Pyrotechnics & Munitions
Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. USA 100 Countermeasures
Kilgore Flares Company LLC USA 100 Countermeasures
Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. USA 100 Energetic Sub–Systems
Chemring Ordnance, Inc. USA 100 Pyrotechnics & Munitions
Non–Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. USA 100 Sensors & Electronics
Hi–Shear Technology Corporation USA 100 Energetic Sub–Systems
Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. USA 100 Sensors & Electronics
Chemring Australia Pty Limited Australia 100 Countermeasures
Simmel Difesa S.p.A. Italy 100 Pyrotechnics & Munitions
Chemring Nobel AS Norway 100 Energetic Sub–Systems
Mecar S.A. Belgium 100 Pyrotechnics & Munitions
Associated undertaking
CIRRA S.A. France 49 Countermeasures
119
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
17. Interest in associate
2013
£m
2012
£m
Interest in associate 1.5  1.4
Amounts relating to associate:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Non–current assets 0.2 0.2
Current assets 1.6 1.3
Current liabilities (0.6) (0.5)
Net assets 1.2 1.0
Group’s share of net assets of associate 0.6 0.5
2013
£m
2012
£m
Revenue of associate 1.6 1.8
Profit after tax of associate 0.1 0.2
Group’s share of profit after tax of associate — 0.1
The results of the associate relate to the Group’s share of CIRRA S.A. CIRRA S.A.’s financial year ended on 30 September 2013 
and there is no material difference between the results as reported and those that would be obtained were CIRRA S.A. to have 
had a financial year ending on 31 October 2013. 
18. Inventories
2013
£m
2012
£m
Raw materials 37.9 44.1
Work in progress 60.9 49.1
Finished goods 14.9 20.6
113.7 113.8
There are no significant differences between the replacement cost of inventory and the fair values shown above.
19. Trade and other receivables
2013
£m
2012
£m
Trade receivables 77.8 92.7
Allowance for doubtful debts (1.6) (1.8)
76.2 90.9
Contract receivables 104.8 87.6
Other debtors 7.1 6.1
Prepayments and accrued income 15.8 8.4
203.9 193.0
All amounts shown above are due within one year.
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
120 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
The average credit period taken by customers on sales of goods, calculated using a countback basis, is 27 days  
(2012: 25 days). No interest is charged on receivables from the date of invoice to payment. 
The Group’s policy is to provide in full for trade receivables outstanding for more than 120 days beyond agreed terms, unless 
extenuating circumstances exist. Due to the nature of the customer base, the Group does not experience significant bad debt 
write–offs. The decrease in trade receivables is due to a lower level of revenue in the final month of the year compared to 2012. 
The increase in the average credit period was due to the timing of invoicing and cash receipts at the end of the year. An ageing 
analysis has not been shown, as all significant overdue receivables are covered by the allowance for doubtful debts. The vast 
majority of the trade receivables balance was not yet due at the year end based on the credit terms provided to customers.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair values.
20. Cash and cash equivalents
Bank balances and cash comprise cash held by the Group and short–term deposits with an original maturity of three months or 
less. The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
Included within cash is £0.8 million of restricted cash (2012: £4.5 million).
21. Borrowings
2013
£m
2012
£m
Within current liabilities
Bank loans and overdrafts - Sterling denominated 0.3 31.2
- Euro denominated – 40.2
- US dollar denominated 0.1 0.2
Other overseas loans - Euro denominated – 2.4
Finance leases - Sterling denominated 1.6 1.7
Borrowings due within one year 2.0 75.7
Within non–current liabilities
UK bank loans - Sterling denominated 0.3 0.7
Overseas bank loans - US dollar denominated – 0.2
Loan notes - Sterling denominated 12.5 12.5
- US dollar denominated 246.6 248.7
Finance leases - Sterling denominated 1.4 2.9
Preference shares 0.1 0.1
Borrowings due after more than one year 260.9 265.1
262.9 340.8
Analysis of borrowings by currency:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Sterling 16.2 49.1
US dollar 246.7 249.1
Euro — 42.6
Total 262.9 340.8
121
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
21. Borrowings (continued)
The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows:
2013
%
2012
%
Bank overdrafts 2.7 2.5
UK bank loans - Sterling denominated 3.3 3.2
- Euro denominated 4.9 5.7
Overseas bank loans - US dollar denominated 3.2 2.7
Other loans - Euro denominated 2.9 2.9
Loan notes - Sterling denominated 6.8 6.8
- US dollar denominated 4.8-6.3 5.3-6.3 
An analysis of total borrowings by maturity is as follows:
2013 2012
Bank
loans and
overdrafts
£m
Loan
notes
£m
Other
borrowings 
£m
Total
£m
Bank
loans and
overdrafts
£m
Loan
notes
£m
Other
 borrowings
£m
Total
£m
Borrowings falling due within:
One year 0.4 — 1.6 2.0 71.6 — 4.1 75.7
Borrowings falling due within:
One to two years 0.3 — 1.4 1.7 0.6 — 1.6 2.2
Two to five years — 134.6 — 134.6 0.3 47.4 1.3 49.0
After five years — 124.5 0.1 124.6 — 213.8 0.1 213.9
0.3 259.1 1.5 260.9 0.9 261.2 3.0 265.1
Total borrowings 0.7 259.1 3.1 262.9 72.5 261.2 7.1 340.8
Other borrowings comprises finance leases and preference shares.
In January 2011, the Group completed a refinancing of its bank facilities with a syndicate of five banks. The resulting  
revolving credit facility, which is unsecured and provides both finance and funds for general working capital purposes, totals 
£230.0 million. The term of the facility extends to April 2015, with an option to extend for a further twelve months. This 
revolving credit facility provides access to committed lending and bonding line support. None of the borrowings in the current 
or the prior year were secured. 
The directors do not believe the fair value of the Group’s borrowings to be materially different to the book values.
There have been no breaches of the terms of the loan agreements during the current or previous year. 
The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities in various currencies available, in respect of which all conditions 
precedent have been met. These facilities are at floating interest rates.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Total undrawn borrowings 126.8 143.9
The Group is subject to two key financial covenants which are tested quarterly, relating to the ratio between underlying 
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (“underlying EBITDA”) and debt (the “debt ratio”), and the ratio 
between underlying EBITDA and finance costs (“interest cover”). The revolving credit facility and the loan note agreements 
have different covenant compliance calculations - the primary difference being that the revolving credit facility uses 
consolidated net debt in the debt ratio, whereas the loan note agreements require consolidated total debt to be used. 
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
122 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
The Group complied with both these covenants throughout the year, and the position at the year end was as follows: 
2013 2012
Covenant ratios - revolving credit facility
Maximum allowed ratio of net debt to underlying EBITDA 3.25x 3.00x
Actual ratio of net debt to underlying EBITDA 2.65x 2.14x
Minimum allowed ratio of underlying EBITDA to finance costs 4.00x 4.00x
Actual ratio of underlying EBITDA to finance costs 4.98x 6.71x
Covenant ratios - loan note agreements
Maximum allowed ratio of consolidated total debt to underlying EBITDA 3.50x 3.00x
Actual ratio of consolidated total debt to underlying EBITDA 2.78x 2.79x
Minimum allowed ratio of underlying EBITDA to finance costs 3.50x 3.50x
Actual ratio of underlying EBITDA to finance costs 5.61x 6.86x
22. Obligations under finance leases
Minimum lease
payments
Present value of minimum 
lease payments
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Amounts payable under finance leases:
Within one year 1.7 1.9 1.6 1.7
In the second to fifth years 1.5 3.2 1.4 2.9
Less future finance charges (0.2) (0.5) — —
Present value of lease obligations 3.0 4.6 3.0 4.6
Less amounts due within one year shown within current liabilities (1.6) (1.7)
Amount due for settlement after one year 1.4 2.9
Finance lease obligations attract interest rates of between 2% and 3% above base rate. Lease obligations are denominated in 
sterling and US dollars. 
The fair value of the Group’s leases approximates to their carrying amounts.
The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ title to the underlying leased assets.
23. Trade and other payables
2013
£m
2012
£m
Current
Trade payables 62.8 100.2
Other payables 44.4 38.7
Other tax and social security 3.2 5.3
Advance payments 17.4 11.7
Accruals and deferred income 48.9 45.6
176.7 201.5
Non–current 
Other payables 2.3 4.3
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. Advance 
payments are amounts received from customers on larger contracts to fund working capital. The directors consider that the 
carrying amount of payables approximates to their fair value.
The average credit period taken on purchases of goods is 50 days (2012: 40 days). No interest is charged on trade payables 
from the date of invoice to payment. 
123
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
24. financial instruments and risk management
The Group uses financial instruments to manage financial risk wherever it is appropriate to do so. The main risks addressed by 
financial instruments are interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s policies in respect of 
the management of these risks, which remained unchanged throughout the year, are set out below.
The Group’s global activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. 
The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign currency and interest rate 
risk, including:
• forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk arising from transactional foreign exchange exposures; and 
• interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of movement in interest rates. 
 
Foreign currency risk management
The Group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies, giving rise to exposures to exchange rate 
fluctuations. Foreign currency exchange risk can be subdivided into two components, transactional risk and translation risk:
Transactional risk: The Group's policy is to hedge transactional currency exposures via the use of forward foreign exchange 
contracts. The measurement and control of this risk is monitored on a Group–wide basis.
Translation risk: The Group's translates overseas results and net assets in accordance with the accounting policy in note 3. 
The translation risk on net assets is mitigated by the transfer of currencies between Group companies and 
the appropriate use of foreign currency borrowings.
The sterling equivalents of the carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at 
the year end were as follows:
2013 2012
USD EUR NOK AUD USD EUR NOK AUD
Monetary assets (£m) 22.8 43.1 5.4 3.3 64.8 64.3 5.8 1.7
Monetary liabilities (£m) 299.2 72.6 4.5 4.1 300.8 103.0 3.3 3.5
Foreign currency denominated net assets are partially hedged by foreign currency borrowings. The borrowings detailed below 
were designated as hedging instruments in net investment hedges:
2013 2012
USD EUR NOK AUD USD EUR NOK AUD
Borrowings (£m) 252.1 — — — 251.4 40.2 — —
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge its currency risk, most with a maturity of less than one year from 
inception. The exchange rates which have the most significant effect on the Group are those relating to the US dollar and the Euro.
The following table details the forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding:
Average exchange rate Expiring within one year
2013 2012
2013
£m
2012
£m
US dollar 1.56 1.54 32.5 12.2
The principal amounts of the Group’s US dollar loan notes have been accounted for as a net investment hedge of the US 
businesses. This hedge was effective throughout the year and the losses arising on translation have been offset against the 
gains on retranslation of these businesses in reserves. 
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
124 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The following table details the Group's sensitivity to a 10 cent movement in the relevant foreign currencies against sterling 
with regards to its income statement. This sensitivity represents management's assessment of a reasonably possible change 
in its foreign exchange rates. This sensitivity analysis only includes translation of the results of foreign currency denominated 
companies and so does not factor in the impact on the results of sterling or other currency companies that have transactions in 
US dollars or euros.
+10 cents – 10 cents
US dollar impact Euro impact US dollar impact Euro impact
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Revenue (17.8) (21.6) (11.8) (15.2) 20.2 24.5 14.0 17.9
Underlying operating profit (2.7) (2.7) (0.9) (1.9) 3.0 3.0 1.1 2.2
Interest 1.0 1.0 0.2 0.4 (0.9) (0.9) (0.2) (0.3)
Profit before tax (1.7) (1.7) (0.7) (1.5) 2.1 2.1 0.9 1.9
Interest rate risk
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits, bank and loan note borrowings, and leasing. The 
Group’s policy is that no more than 75% of gross debt should have fixed interest rates. During the year, the average fixed 
interest level was within this policy.
The UK borrowings are denominated in sterling and US dollar, and at the shorter end are subject to floating rates of interest. 
The Group has entered into a floating to fixed interest rate swap for €50.0 million of Euro borrowings at a weighted average 
rate of 3.77% and a fixed to floating interest rate swap for $80.0 million of US dollar borrowings at a weighted average rate of 
4.20%.
The Group has outstanding fixed interest loan notes in the US, repayable in November 2016 ($80.0 million), November 2017  
(£12.5 million and $125.0 million) and November 2019 ($200.0 million). This arrangement provides a natural hedge against 
the Group’s investment in its US businesses.
As the Group has predominantly fixed interest rate debt, a change in interest rates would not have an immediate significant 
impact on the income statement. An increase/(decrease) in interest rates of 1% would cause the finance expense to  
increase/(decrease) by £0.7 million.
Liquidity risk
The table below details the maturity profile of the Group’s derivative financial instruments and loans (excluding finance leases, 
preference shares and capitalised facility fees):
2013 2012
Derivative
payables
£m
Loans and
overdrafts
£m
Total
£m
Derivative
payables
£m
Loans and
overdrafts
£m
Total 
£m
Falling due within:
One year 49.6 0.4 50.0 12.2 77.1 89.3
One to two years 11.1 0.3 11.4 11.5 0.6 12.1
Two to five years — 140.1 140.1 9.9 49.9 59.8
After five years — 124.5 124.5 — 214.2 214.2
60.7 265.3 326.0 33.6 341.8 375.4
125
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
24. financial instruments and risk management (continued)
The profile of the Group’s financial assets by underlying currency and balance sheet classification is as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Sterling 65.5 62.9
US dollar 43.6 106.6
Australian dollar 3.4 4.9
Euro 103.7 111.0
Other currencies 5.2 5.6
221.4 291.0
Overdraft offset (24.7) (15.5)
196.7 275.5
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 14.2 96.0
Trade receivables 76.2 90.9
Contract receivables 104.8 87.6
Derivative financial instruments 1.5 1.0
196.7 275.5
Cash balances held in the UK have a right of interest offset against UK–based overdraft balances. Overseas cash balances have 
a weighted average interest rate of 0.1% (2012: 0.1%) and are at a floating rate. 
The foreign currency balances are predominantly attributable to overseas business units and therefore do not result in 
significant exposure to transactional risks for the Group. Included within cash is £0.8 million of restricted cash  
(2012: £4.5 million) (see note 20). 
The profile of the Group’s financial liabilities by underlying currency and balance sheet classification is as follows:
2013 2012
Floating rate
£m
Fixed rate
£m
Total
£m
Floating rate
£m
Fixed rate
£m
Total
£m
Sterling — (72.5) (72.5) (30.9) (75.5) (106.4)
US dollar (49.8) (222.2) (272.0) (49.9) (248.6) (298.5)
Euro — (54.1) (54.1) (2.4) (100.3) (102.7)
Other currencies — (6.8) (6.8) — (5.9) (5.9)
(49.8) (355.6) (405.4) (83.2) (430.3) (513.5)
Overdraft offset 24.7 15.5
(380.7) (498.0)
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
126 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
2013
£m
2012
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts (0.4) (71.6)
UK loans (0.3) (0.7)
Loan notes (259.1) (261.2)
Overseas loans — (0.2)
Other loans — (2.4)
(259.8) (336.1)
Preference shares (see note 27) (0.1) (0.1)
Obligations under finance leases (see note 22) (3.0) (4.6)
(262.9) (340.8)
Trade payables due within one year (62.8) (100.2)
Accruals (46.6) (44.8)
Other tax and social security (3.2) (5.3)
Derivative financial instruments due within one year (0.4) (0.1)
Trade payables due after more than one year (2.3) (4.3)
Derivative financial instruments due after more than one year (2.5) (2.5)
(380.7) (498.0)
A right of offset exists for currency amounts held within the UK by Barclays Bank PLC. These are used to offset the interest 
charged on any UK overdraft. 
The weighted average interest rate of fixed rate financial liabilities at 31 October 2013 was 5.8% (2012: 5.1%) and the 
weighted average period of funding was five years (2012: four years).
Derivative financial instruments 
The Group has two interest rate structures, one from floating rate to fixed rate that expires in April 2015 at a rate of 3.77%, 
and one from fixed rate to floating rate that expires in May 2015 at a rate of 4.20%. The fair value of interest rate swaps 
recognised on the balance sheet at 31 October 2013 was a liability of £2.5 million (2012: £2.4 million). The Group also has 
forward foreign exchange contracts with fair values of £0.4 million liability (2012: £0.2 million liability) and £1.5 million asset 
(2012: £1.0 million asset). The net value of these derivative financial instruments is a liability of £1.4 million  
(2012: £1.6 million).
The following table details the fair value of derivative financial instruments recognised in the balance sheet:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Interest rate swaps (2.5) (2.4)
Forward foreign exchange contracts 1.1 0.8
(1.4) (1.6)
These derivative financial instruments are classified on the balance sheet as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Included in current assets 1.5 1.0
Included in current liabilities (0.4) (0.1)
Included in non–current liabilities (2.5) (2.5)
(1.4) (1.6)
127
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
24. financial instruments and risk management (continued)
The following table details the gain on fair value movements on derivative financial instruments recognised in the income 
statement:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Change in fair value of derivative financial instruments 0.1  1.9
Fair value hierarchy
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires companies that carry financial instruments at fair value in the balance 
sheet to disclose their level of visibility, determining into which category those financial instruments fall under the fair value 
hierarchy.
The fair value measurement hierarchy is as follows:
• Level 1 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
• Level 2 - Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
(i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
• Level 3 - Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (i.e. as unobservable inputs).
The following tables present the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value:
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
2013
Total
£m
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
2012
Total
£m
Assets
Forward foreign exchange contracts — 1.5 1.5 — 1.0 1.0
Total assets — 1.5 1.5 — 1.0 1.0
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
2013
Total
£m
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
2012
Total
£m
Liabilities
Borrowings — (259.1) (259.1) (71.4) (261.2) (332.6)
Interest rate swaps — (2.5) (2.5) — (2.4) (2.4)
Forward foreign exchange contracts — (0.4) (0.4) — (0.2)  (0.2)
Total liabilities — (262.0) (262.0) (71.4) (263.8)  (335.2) 
There were no assets or liabilities that were classed under Level 3 on the fair value hierarchy.
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, and trade and other receivables, which represent the 
Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets. Whilst the Group does not have any significant credit 
risk exposure to any single counterparty, the credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is monitored on an 
ongoing basis using credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies, the credit default swap market and market 
capitalisation.
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of 
allowances for doubtful receivables, based on prior experience and an assessment of the current economic environment. Trade 
receivables are attributable to a small number of customers spread across diverse geographical areas. Customers are mainly 
multinational organisations or government agencies with whom the Group has long–term business relationships. The Group's 
principal customers are government defence departments, such as the US Department of Defense, the UK Ministry of Defence 
and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Ministry of Defence and Aviation, as well as US and UK defence prime contractors such as 
Lockheed Martin, BAE Systems and General Dynamics.
Counterparties are monitored on an ongoing basis for credit risk, and as at the balance sheet date the risk was deemed to be 
low. Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable and action is taken to minimise 
the credit risk to the Group.
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
128 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
The Group’s accounting policies and control procedures require letters of credit to be put in place for the majority of contracts 
with overseas customers. Any departures from this policy require approval by the Group finance function.
The Group’s pricing risk is primarily in relation to the cost of raw materials and is not considered significant. Pricing risk is 
managed through negotiations with suppliers and, where appropriate, the agreement of fixed price supply contracts.
Capital management
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain 
future development of the business. From time to time, the Group purchases its own shares on the market; the timing of these 
purchases depends on market prices. Primarily, such shares are intended to be used for satisfying awards under the Group’s 
share–based incentive schemes. Buy and sell decisions are made on a specific transaction basis by the Board. 
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements. 
25. Provisions
Legal 
provision
£m
Environmental 
provision
£m
Warranty 
provision
£m
Restructuring 
provision
£m
Other 
provision
£m
Total
£m
At 1 November 2012 1.4 1.5 2.0 1.4 1.4 7.7
Provided 3.4 1.2 1.0 1.6 — 7.2
Foreign exchange adjustments — (0.1) 0.1 — — —
Paid/released (0.2) — — (1.7) — (1.9)
At 31 October 2013 4.6 2.6 3.1 1.3 1.4 13.0
These provisions are classified on the balance sheet as follows: 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Included in current liabilities 2.7 2.8
Included in non–current liabilities 10.3 4.9
13.0 7.7
It is not possible to estimate more accurately the expected timing of any resulting outflows of economic benefits.
The legal provision represents the estimated legal liabilities faced by the Group as at the balance sheet date. Further details of 
the Group's contingent liabilities can be found in note 39.
The environmental provision is held in respect of potential liabilities associated with the Group's facilities in Illinois, USA and 
Belgium.
The warranty provision at 31 October 2013 represents management’s best estimate of the Group’s liability, based on past 
experience for defective products. 
The restructuring provision at 31 October 2013 relates to Chemring Countermeasures, Chemring Energetics UK,  
CHG Group, and Alloy Surfaces Company. The provision is associated with the Performance Recovery Programme, and 
represents management’s best estimate of the costs to be incurred on restructuring programmes during 2014.
129
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
26. Deferred tax
The following are the principal deferred tax liabilities/(assets) recognised by the Group and movements thereon:
Accelerated tax
depreciation
£m
Retirement
benefit 
obligations
£m
Tax losses
£m
Acquired
intangibles
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 November 2011 18.9 (6.4) (8.6) 23.5 9.9 37.3
(Credit)/charge to income (0.9) 0.9 4.5 (5.9) 1.3 (0.1)
(Credit)/charge to equity (0.3) (0.7) — (0.7) 0.3 (1.4)
At 1 November 2012 17.7 (6.2) (4.1) 16.9 11.5 35.8
Credit to income (0.3) — (0.4) (13.3) (7.4) (21.4)
Charge to equity — 0.9 — 0.9 0.9 2.7
Reclassification — — — 16.4 (16.4) —
At 31 October 2013 17.4 (5.3) (4.5) 20.9 (11.4) 17.1
Certain deferred tax balances have been reclassified between categories.
The Finance Act 2013, which provides for reductions in the main rate of corporation tax from 23% to 21% effective from  
1 April 2014 and to 20% effective from 1 April 2015, was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. These rate reductions have 
been reflected in the calculation of deferred tax at the balance sheet date. 
The impact of any further changes in the main rate of corporation tax will be taken into account at subsequent reporting 
dates, once any such changes have been substantively enacted. Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in 
accordance with the Group’s accounting policy. Deferred tax balances after offset, for balance sheet purposes, are analysed as 
follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Non–current liabilities 38.8 52.7
Non–current assets (21.7) (16.9)
17.1 35.8
At the balance sheet date, the Group had unrecognised tax losses of £48.2 million (2012: £43.1 million) potentially available for 
offset against future profits in certain circumstances, with the majority arising from recent acquisitions. No deferred tax asset has 
been recognised in respect of this amount because of the unpredictability of future taxable qualifying profit streams. 
27. Share capital
2013
£m
2012
£m
Issued and fully paid
195,493,918 (2012: 195,491,341) ordinary shares of 1p each 2.0 2.0
2,577 ordinary shares (2012: 14,907) were issued under the Group’s savings–related share schemes during the year. 
The Company’s share capital also includes 62,500 7% cumulative preference shares of £1 each, which are all issued and fully 
paid–up, and are classified for accounting purposes within non–current liabilities. The cumulative preference shares carry an 
entitlement to a dividend at the rate of 7p per share per annum, payable in equal instalments on 30 April and 31 October each 
year. Holders of the preference shares have the right on a winding–up to receive, in priority to any other classes of shares, the 
sum of £1 per share together with any arrears of dividends. 
28. Reserves
The share premium account, the special capital reserve and the revaluation reserve are not distributable.
Included within retained earnings are £1.4 million of retained profits (2012: £1.3 million) relating to the associated 
undertaking, £0.9 million (2012: £0.1 million) relating to the share–based payment reserve and £0.8 million  
(2012: £0.8 million) of the Company’s own shares held by the trustee of the Group's employee share ownership plan.
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
130 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
29. Own shares
2013
£m
2012
£m
Balance at beginning of the year 9.6 6.6
Acquired — 4.8
Issued to satisfy employee share awards — (1.8)
Balance at end of the year 9.6 9.6
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Chemring Group PLC purchased in the market and held by the Group  
to satisfy awards under the Group’s share–based incentive schemes, details of which are set out in note 31. Nil ordinary shares 
(2012: 1,215,000) were acquired during the year and nil (2012: 359,331) ordinary shares were distributed following the 
vesting of awards under the Chemring Group Performance Share Plan. The total number of ordinary shares held in treasury  
at 31 October 2013 was 2,198,814 (2012: 2,198,814), with an average cost of 439.0 pence (2012: 439.0 pence) per share. 
This represents 1.1% of the total issued and fully–paid ordinary share capital.
30. Obligations under non–cancellable operating leases
2013
£m
2012
£m
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in the income statement 3.5 1.9
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non–cancellable 
operating leases, which fall due as follows: 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Within one year 2.0 3.7
In the second to the fifth years 4.7 7.0
6.7 10.7
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group. Leases are negotiated for an average term of three years 
and rentals are fixed for the lease period, with an option to extend for a further period at the then prevailing market rate.
31. Share–based payments
The Group operates share–based compensation arrangements to provide incentives to the Group’s senior management and 
other eligible employees. The Group recognised a net charge of £1.0 million (2012: £0.1 million credit) in respect of  
share–based payments during the year. 
Details of the four schemes which operated during the year are set out below.
The Chemring Group Performance Share Plan (the “PSP”)
Under the PSP, conditional awards of ordinary shares are made at nil cost to employees. Awards ordinarily vest on the third 
anniversary of the award date. The scheme commenced in March 2006.
Number of conditional shares
2013 2012
Outstanding at beginning of the year 2,231,393 1,792,977
Awarded 1,753,267 1,785,720
Vested — (359,331)
Lapsed (1,054,985) (987,973)
Outstanding at end of the year 2,929,675 2,231,393
Subject to vesting at end of the year — —
131
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
31. Share–based payments (continued)
The following awards were outstanding at 31 October 2013:
Date of award
Number of ordinary
shares under award
Vesting price
per share 
Pence
Date when awards
 will vest
19 January 2011 318,710 Nil 19 January 2014
27 January 2012 938,266 Nil 27 January 2015
21 November 2012 413,412 Nil 21 November 2015
31 January 2013 1,179,491 Nil 31 January 2016
27 June 2013 79,796 Nil 27 June 2016
The Group has applied a discount to the share–based payment, to reflect the anticipated achievement of the stipulated targets 
for each PSP award, based on the predicted figures within the Group’s financial projections and expected number of leavers 
over the life of the PSP awards.
The PSP awards made in the year ended 31 October 2013 contained performance conditions based on achievement of share 
price targets, as opposed to the targets based on earnings per share growth targets used in prior years. The PSP awards made 
in the year ended 31 October 2013 have therefore been valued using the Monte Carlo Simulation model. The inputs into the 
Monte Carlo Simulation model are as follows:
Date of award
21 November 2012 31 January 2013 27 June 2013
Share price at valuation 217.0p 283.6p 282.0p
Exercise price nil nil nil
Risk free rate 0.38% 0.43% 0.78%
Expected dividend yield 3.50% 3.50% 3.50%
Expected volatility 40% 40% 40%
Fair value 71.5p 108.8p 107.9p
The weighted average fair value of awards made during the year was 100.0p (2012: 332.6p). 
No awards vested in the year ended 31 October 2013. In the year ended 31 October 2012, the closing share prices on the 
dates of vesting of awards were 368.5p, 274.4p and 289.3p. The charge recognised in respect of PSP awards is based on their 
fair value at the grant date.
The Chemring Group Restricted Share Plan (the “RSP”)
Under the RSP, deferred awards of ordinary shares are made at nil cost. Awards ordinarily vest on the second anniversary of 
the award date. The first awards under the RSP were made in February 2013.
Number of deferred shares awarded
2013 2012
Outstanding at beginning of the year — —
Awarded 542,032 —
Lapsed (32,683) —
Outstanding at end of the year 509,349 —
Subject to vesting at end of the year — —
The following awards were outstanding at 31 October 2013:
Date of award Number of ordinary 
shares under award
Vesting price
per share
Pence
Date when awards
 will vest
15 February 2013 509,349 Nil 15 February 2015
The Group has applied a discount to the share–based payment relating to the RSP, to reflect the expected number of leavers 
over the life of the RSP awards.
For the purpose of calculating the value of share–based payments, the share price is discounted based on the following 
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
132 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
assumptions:
• dividend growth at 1p per annum; and 
• weighted average cost of capital of 7.7%.
The weighted average fair value of awards made during the year was 257.6p (2012: nil). 
The Chemring Group 2008 UK Sharesave Plan (the “UK Sharesave Plan”)
Options were granted during the year on 30 July 2013.
2013 2012
Number of 
share options
Weighted average 
exercise price 
Pence
Number of
 share options
Weighted average 
exercise price 
Pence
Outstanding at beginning of the year 782,171 279.8 505,164 430.2
Granted 222,874 239.0 553,724 223.0
Exercised (2,577) 223.0 (14,115) 370.7
Lapsed (166,091) 316.4 (262,602) 444.6
Outstanding at end of the year 836,377 261.8 782,171 279.8
Subject to exercise at end of the year 71,035 393.8 33,150 344.4
The following options were outstanding at 31 October 2013:
Date of award
Number of ordinary 
shares under award
Exercise price
per share 
Pence
Dates between which
 options may be exercised
1 August 2008 57,345 373.6 1 October 2013 - 1 April 2014
31 July 2009 33,545 344.4 1 October 2014 - 1 April 2015
30 July 2010 13,690 478.4 1 October 2013 - 1 April 2014
30 July 2010 11,215 478.4 1 October 2015 - 1 April 2016
29 July 2011 22,437 508.0 1 October 2014 - 1 April 2015
29 July 2011 12,014 508.0 1 October 2016 - 1 April 2017
30 July 2012 337,437 223.0 1 October 2015 - 1 April 2016
30 July 2012 126,573 223.0 1 October 2017 - 1 April 2018
30 July 2013 145,062 239.0 1 October 2016 - 1 April 2017
30 July 2013 77,059 239.0 1 October 2018 - 1 April 2019
The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year was 68.4p (2012: 101.4p).
The weighted average fair value of options exercised in the year was 101.4p (2012: 83.0p).
The weighted average share price on exercise of the options during the year was 274.0p (2012: 365.1p).
The fair values of the share options in the UK Sharesave Plan are based on the difference between the exercise price and the 
share price on the grant date of the option.
133
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
31. Share–based payments (continued)
The Chemring Group 2008 US Stock Purchase Plan (the “US Stock Purchase Plan”)
The US Stock Purchase Plan provides US employees with the opportunity to share in the future success of the Group and 
mirrors the UK Sharesave Plan, subject to certain legal and tax differences due to the differing jurisdictions. Options were 
granted during the year on 30 July 2013.
2013 2012
Number of 
share options
Weighted average 
exercise price 
Pence
Number of
 share options
Weighted average 
exercise price 
Pence
Outstanding at beginning of the year 115,606 311.4 92,790 491.0
Granted 55,997 262.0 82,738 244.0
Exercised — — (792) 498.8
Lapsed (65,515) 362.9 (59,130) 496.5
Outstanding at end of the year 106,088 253.5 115,606 311.4
Subject to exercise at end of the year — — — —
The following options were outstanding at 31 October 2013:
Date of award
Number of ordinary 
shares under award
Exercise price
per share 
Pence
Dates between which
options may be exercised
30 July 2012 50,091 244.0 30 July 2014 - 29 October 2014
30 July 2013 55,997 262.0 30 July 2015 - 29 October 2015
The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year was 45.1p (2012: 46.0p).
The weighted average fair value of options exercised in the year was nil (2012: 78.8p).
The weighted average share price on exercise of the options during the year was nil (2012: 365.1p).
The fair values of the share options in the US Stock Purchase Plan are based on the difference between the exercise price and 
the share price on the date of grant of the option.
32. Acquisitions
No acquisitions were made during the year but as a result of ongoing mergers, disposals and acquisitions activity and 
acquisitions in prior years, acquisition and disposal related costs of £3.2 million (2012: £8.2 million) have been recognised in 
the income statement as non–underlying items, in accordance with IFRS 3 (Revised) Business Combinations. For the year ended 
31 October 2013, the costs include £2.1 million relating to an onerous lease in respect of premises formerly occupied by a 
business disposed of by the Group in 2003. As part of the disposal terms, the Group guaranteed future lease payments and this 
guarantee has been called upon.
Acquisition and disposal related costs
2013
£m
2012
£m
Onerous lease cost 2.1 —
Mecar S.A. — 0.1
Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. — 0.8
Aborted acquisitions 0.3 0.6
Fees related to a third party approach for the Group 0.2 3.7
Joint ventures and other acquisition related costs 0.6 3.0
3.2 8.2
This figure differs from the cash outflow from acquisition related costs of £3.8 million due to a net decrease in acquisition 
related costs within creditors and provisions at the year end of £0.6 million.
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
134 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
33. Discontinued operations
No disposals were made during the year.
On 31 July 2012, the Group completed the disposal of its marine business to Drew Marine for £30.4 million. 
The results of the discontinued operations to the date of disposal which have been included in the consolidated income 
statement and consolidated statement of cash flows, were as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Revenue — 15.1
Operating profit — 3.1
Finance expense — (0.5)
Tax — (0.5)
Profit after tax — 2.1
2013
£m
2012
£m
Net cash inflow from operating activities — 3.3
Net cash outflow from financing activities — (0.5)
Net cash flow from discontinued operations — 2.8
The net assets of the marine business at the date of disposal were as follows:
£m
Property, plant and equipment 1.2
Inventories 4.5
Trade receivables 6.0
Cash and cash equivalents 3.5
Trade payables (2.7)
Other payables (1.7)
Provisions (0.7)
Remove cash and cash equivalents (3.5)
Attributable goodwill 3.7
Attributable disposal costs 9.8
20.1
Profit on disposal 10.3
Total consideration 30.4
Satisfied by:
Cash and cash equivalents 32.0
Deferred working capital adjustment (1.6)
 30.4
Net cash inflow arising on disposal:
Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents 32.0
Less cash and cash equivalents disposed of (3.5)
Less payments for attributable disposal costs (6.7)
 21.8
The deferred working capital adjustment was settled in cash by the Group in December 2012.
135
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
34. Held for sale
Substantially all of the assets of Chemring Energetic Devices' business located in Clear Lake, South Dakota have been classified 
as held for sale at 31 October 2013.
The sale was agreed on 19 December 2013 and is expected to be completed in early 2014. Gross sale proceeds are  
$10.0 million (£6.1 million), subject to a working capital adjustment.
The major classes of assets and liabilities classified as held for sale at 31 October 2013 were as follows:
£m
Property, plant and equipment 1.1
Other intangible assets 0.7
Inventories 2.9
Trade and other receivables 2.0
Assets held for sale 6.7
Trade and other payables (1.1)
Liabilities held for sale (1.1)
The property, plant and equipment balance of £1.1 million is stated after an impairment charge of £8.8 million (see note 5). 
35. Pensions
In the UK, the Group operates a defined benefit scheme (the “Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme”). In Germany, Chemring 
Defence Germany GmbH operates a defined benefit scheme (the “Chemring Defence Germany Scheme”) and in Norway, 
Chemring Nobel AS operates a defined benefit scheme (the “Chemring Nobel Scheme”). The other UK and overseas pension 
arrangements are all defined contribution schemes, with a combined cost of £6.3 million (2012: £6.6 million). 
The Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme is a funded scheme and the assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee 
administered fund. The scheme was closed to future accrual on 6 April 2012. A full actuarial valuation of the Chemring Group 
Staff Pension Scheme as at 6 April 2012 has been completed and updated to 31 October 2013 by a qualified actuary, using the 
projected unit credit method. The main assumptions for the scheme are detailed below. The net deficit of the Chemring Group 
Staff Pension Scheme was £24.2 million at 31 October 2013 (2012: £25.9 million).
Under the funding plan agreed with the trustees following the 2012 actuarial valuation, the Company has agreed to eliminate 
the deficit calculated at that time over a period of seven years. This funding plan provides for contributions of £8.2 million 
to be paid by the Group in monthly instalments during the year ending 31 October 2014, and thereafter, £5.0 million per 
annum to be paid in monthly instalments until 2019. The Company and the trustees monitor funding levels annually, and a new 
funding plan is agreed with the trustees every three years, based on actuarial valuations. The Group considers that the current 
contribution rates agreed with the trustees are sufficient to eliminate the calculated deficit over the agreed period.
The Group has provided a bank guarantee and letters of credit totalling £27.2 million (2012: £27.2 million) to the Chemring 
Group Staff Pension Scheme, comprising a £20.0 million letter of credit and a £7.2 million bank guarantee, which may only be 
drawn upon certain events of default by the Company.
On 31 July 2012, the disposal of the marine business triggered a payment of £1.6 million falling due to the Chemring Group 
Staff Pension Scheme under Sections 75 and 75A of the Pensions Act 1995. This debt was settled in full by the Group on  
22 August 2012.
The Chemring Defence Germany Scheme is an unfunded scheme. The actuarial liability has been calculated at 31 October 
2013 by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. The main assumptions used were a discount rate of 6.0%, 
inflation rate of 1.8% and rate of increase in deferred pensions of nil %. The net deficit of the Chemring Defence Germany 
Scheme was £0.9 million at 31 October 2013 (2012: £0.8 million).
The Chemring Nobel Scheme is an unfunded scheme. The actuarial liability has been calculated at 31 October 2013 by a 
qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. The main assumptions used were a discount rate of 4.1% and rate of 
increase in deferred pensions of 0.6%. The net deficit of the Chemring Nobel Scheme was £nil at 31 October 2013  
(2012: £0.3 million).
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
136 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
As principal employer on all schemes and due to the similarity of the schemes, the schemes have been netted–off in the table 
below.
The amount recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the Group’s defined benefit schemes is as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Present value of funded and unfunded obligations (76.7) (71.6) (65.2)
Fair value of schemes' assets 51.6 44.6 40.0
Net retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet (25.1) (27.0) (25.2)
An analysis of the retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet by scheme is as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme (24.2) (25.9) (23.7)
Chemring Defence Germany Scheme (0.9) (0.8) (1.3)
Chemring Nobel Scheme — (0.3) (0.2)
Net retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet (25.1) (27.0) (25.2)
Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the Group’s defined benefit schemes are as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Amounts included within operating profit
Current service cost (0.2) (1.0)
Curtailment gain — 1.4
 (0.2) 0.4
Amounts included within finance expense
Expected return on scheme assets 2.5 2.4
Discount on scheme liabilities (3.0) (3.2)
(0.5) (0.8)
Net charge recognised in the income statement (0.7) (0.4)
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets at the balance sheet date 5.1 3.0
Actuarial losses and changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities 
 at the balance sheet date (4.4) (5.7)
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 0.7 (2.7)
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Opening defined benefit obligations (71.6) (65.2)
Service cost (0.2) (1.0)
Interest cost (3.0) (3.2)
Contributions from scheme members — (0.3)
Actuarial losses and changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities (4.4) (5.7)
Benefits paid 2.5 2.4
Curtailment gain — 1.4 
Closing defined benefit obligations (76.7) (71.6)
137
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
35. Pensions (continued)
Changes in the fair value of the schemes’ assets were as follows: 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Opening fair value of schemes’ assets 44.6 40.0
Expected return on scheme assets 2.5 2.4
Actuarial gains less expected return on pension scheme assets 5.1 1.4
Contributions from scheme members — 0.3
Contributions from sponsoring companies 1.9 1.3
Additional contributions in respect of the Section 75 debt on the disposal of the marine business — 1.6
Benefits paid (2.5) (2.4)
Closing fair value of schemes’ assets 51.6 44.6
The schemes’ assets and the long–term expected rates of return on assets were as follows: 
2013 2012 2011
Long–term rate of
return expected £m
Long–term rate of 
return expected £m
Long–term rate of 
return expected £m
Equities 7.0% 35.9 6.8% 31.2 6.8% 27.7
Bonds 3.1% 15.7 3.2% 13.4 3.4% 12.3
Total fair value of schemes' assets 51.6  44.6 40.0 
The analysis of the pension schemes' assets at 31 October 2013 is as follows:
2013
%
2012
%
2011
%
Equities 69.5 70.0 69.3
Bonds 30.5 30.0 30.7
100.0 100.0 100.0
The expected rates of return on assets are determined by reference to relevant published indices. The overall expected rate of 
return is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the investment portfolios.
History of experience gains and losses: 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Present value of funded and unfunded obligations (76.7) (71.6) (65.2) (61.9) (63.0)
Fair value of schemes' assets 51.6 44.6 40.0 38.9 34.9
Deficit in the schemes (25.1) (27.0) (25.2) (23.0) (28.1)
Experience gains on scheme liabilities 1.3 — — 3.8 —
Percentage of scheme liabilities 1.7% — — 6.1% —
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme assets 5.1 1.4 (1.3) 1.4 4.2
Percentage of scheme assets 9.9% 3.1% (3.3)% 3.6% 12.0%
Analysis of movement in the deficit in the schemes during the year: 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Opening deficit in schemes (27.0) (25.2)
Current service cost (0.2) (1.0)
Curtailment gain — 1.4
Contributions 1.9 1.3
Other finance costs (0.5) (0.8)
Actuarial gain/(loss) and changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities 0.7 (2.7)
Closing deficit in the schemes (25.1) (27.0)
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
138 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
The principal assumptions used in the actuarial valuation of the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme were as follows:
2013
%
2012
%
Discount rate 4.2 4.4
Rate of increase in salaries n/a n/a
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 3.3 2.8
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (where applicable) 3.3 2.8
Inflation - RPI 3.5 2.9
- CPI 2.5 2.2
Expected return on scheme assets 4.2 5.8
In determining defined benefit obligations, the Group uses mortality assumptions which are based on published mortality 
tables. For the Chemring Group Staff Pension Scheme, the actuarial table currently used is SAPS Year of Birth Tables with a 
medium cohort and 1% underpin. 
This results in the following life expectancies at age 65:
2013 2012
Future pensioners - male 88.6 88.2
- female 91.3 91.0
Current pensioners - male 86.3 86.3
- female 89.2 89.1
The assumption considered to be the most significant is the discount rate adopted. If the discount rate used in determining 
retirement benefit obligations were to change by 0.1% then it is predicted that the deficit in the scheme would change by 
approximately £1.4 million. A change in the rate of inflation by 0.1% is predicted to change the deficit by approximately  
£0.9 million and a one year change to the longevity assumption would change the deficit by approximately £2.5 million.
The Group anticipates contributions to the defined benefit schemes for the year ending 31 October 2014 will be £8.2 million 
(2013: £2.0 million).
139
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
36. Cash generated from underlying operations
2013
£m
2012
£m
Operating (loss)/profit from continuing operations (36.9) 37.0
Operating profit from discontinued operations — 3.1
(36.9) 40.1
Impairment of goodwill 50.9 22.5
Impairment of acquired intangibles 15.7 —
Impairment of assets held for sale 8.8 —
Amortisation of development costs 5.5 4.3
Intangible amortisation arising from business combinations 18.8 20.9
Amortisation of patents and licences 0.4 0.3
Loss on disposal of non–current assets 2.2 3.4
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 20.1 15.9
Gain on the movement in the fair value of derivative financial instruments (0.1) (1.9)
Share–based payment expense/(credit) 0.9 (0.1)
Employer contributions towards pension scheme deficit reduction plan (1.0) —
Difference between pension contributions paid and amount recognised in income statement (0.3) 0.6
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 85.0 106.0
Decrease in inventories 0.1 28.0
Increase in trade and other receivables (15.9) (8.2)
Decrease in trade and other payables (21.0) (20.2)
Increase in provisions 5.5 2.8
53.7 108.4
Add back non–underlying items:
Acquisition and disposal related costs 3.2 8.2
Business restructuring and incident costs 11.7 11.9
Profit on disposal of business — (10.3)
Cash generated from underlying operations 68.6 118.2
Analysed as:
Continuing operations 68.6 114.9
Discontinued operations — 3.3
68.6 118.2
37. Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2013
£m
2012
£m
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents during the year (81.9) 5.3
Decrease in debt and lease financing due to cash flows 82.5 12.3
Decrease in net debt resulting from cash flows 0.6 17.6
Effect of foreign exchanges rate changes (2.5) 1.9
Amortisation of debt finance costs (2.0) (1.6)
Movement in net debt (3.9) 17.9
Net debt at beginning of the year (244.8) (262.7)
Net debt at end of the year (248.7) (244.8)
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
140 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
38. Analysis of net debt
At 
1 Nov 2012
£m
Cash flows
£m
Non–cash 
changes
£m
Exchange
rate effects
£m
At 
31 Oct 2013
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 96.0 (81.9) — 0.1 14.2
Debt due within one year (74.0) 79.1 (3.6) (1.9) (0.4)
Debt due after one year (262.1) 1.7 1.6 (0.6) (259.4)
Finance leases (4.6) 1.7 — (0.1) (3.0)
Preference shares (0.1) — — — (0.1)
(244.8) 0.6 (2.0) (2.5) (248.7)
39. Contingent liabilities
The Group enters into contracts which have offset commitments. These requirements are valued at the time of the contract 
being awarded. The cost of the offsets are reviewed throughout the contract life and provided for within the contract costings 
to the extent of the potential liability. 
At 31 October 2013, the Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and contractual performance guarantees and other 
matters arising in the ordinary course of business. Where it is expected that a material liability will arise in respect of these 
matters, appropriate provision is made within the financial statements. As the conditions of these guarantees are currently 
being met, no obligating event is foreseeable and therefore no provision has been made.
The Group is, from time to time, party to legal proceedings and claims, and is involved in correspondence relating to potential 
claims, which arise in the ordinary course of business. The Group is currently engaged in pre–action correspondence in relation 
to the manufacture of certain components for the NLAW combat weapon by Chemring Energetics UK. In addition, Simmel 
Difesa. may become indirectly involved in proceedings relating to environmental issues in the Colleferro region of Italy, where 
its principal manufacturing site is located.
In light of the current status of these matters, the directors do not consider the outcome of all the proceedings, actions and 
claims in which it is currently involved, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Group’s 
financial position. A provision of £4.6 million (2012: £1.4 million) exists to cover potential legal costs for the Group with 
regards to pending and probable legal actions. This provision is detailed in note 25. 
The Group has a £2.5 million deductible under its material damage and business interruption insurance policy, subject to a 
maximum liability of £3.5 million in any one year. 
141
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
40. Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and 
are not disclosed in this note. Transactions with the Group's pension schemes are disclosed in note 35.
Trading transactions
There are no trading activities between the Group and its associate.
Remuneration of key management personnel 
The executive directors constitute the key management personnel of the Group. Their remuneration is set out below in 
aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Further information on the remuneration of 
individual directors is provided in the audited part of the directors’ remuneration report on pages 76 to 85.
The directors of the Company had no material transactions with the Company during the year, other than in connection with 
their service agreements. The remuneration of the executive directors is determined by the Remuneration Committee, having 
regard to the performance of the individuals and market trends. The remuneration of the non–executive directors is determined 
by the Board, having regard to the practice of other companies and the particular demands of the Group.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Remuneration of key management personnel 1.5 2.5
Included within the 2012 charge is £1.1 million relating to compensation for loss of office for David Price and Paul Rayner. 
Further detail can be found in the directors’ remuneration report.
41. Post balance sheet event
On 19 December 2013, the Group agreed the conditional sale of substantially all of the assets of Chemring Energetic Devices' 
business in Clear Lake, South Dakota. Gross sales proceeds are expected to be $10.0 million (£6.1 million), subject to a working 
capital adjustment. This business has been classified as held for sale as at 31 October 2013.
Notes to the group financial statements
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
142 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
 Note
2013 2012
£m £m £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 2 0.3 0.7
Investments 3 575.2 575.2
575.5 575.9
Current assets
Debtors – due within one year 5 12.9 12.7
 – due after more than one year 5 250.8 279.6
Cash at bank and in hand 1.6 21.1
265.3 313.4
Creditors due within one year 6 (23.1) (122.7)
Net current assets 242.2 190.7
Total assets less current liabilities 817.7 766.6
Creditors due after more than one year 7 (487.1) (451.0)
330.6 315.6
Capital and reserves
Called–up share capital 8 2.0 2.0
Share premium account 9 230.7 230.7
Special capital reserve 9 12.9 12.9
Profit and loss account 9 94.6 79.6
338.2 323.2
Own shares 10 (9.6) (9.6)
328.6 313.6
Shareholders’ funds 330.6 315.6
These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of directors on 23 January 2014.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Chemring Group PLC (registered number 86662)
Mark Papworth 
Director 
Steve Bowers 
Director
Parent company balance sheet
as at 31 October 2013
143
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Parent company statement of total recognised 
gains and losses 
for the year ended 31 October 2013
Note
2013
£m
2012
£m
Profit for the year 9 28.8 6.9
Additional charge due to treasury shares — (0.5) 
Total recognised gains and losses for the year 28.8 6.4 
 
Parent company reconciliation of movements in 
shareholders’ funds
for the year ended 31 October 2013 
Note
2013
£m
2012
£m
Profit for the year 28.8 6.9
Dividends (14.7) (31.1)
Profit/(loss) for the year 14.1 (24.2)
Other recognised losses — (0.5)
Ordinary shares issued 8 — —
Share premium arising 9 — 0.1
Share–based payments (net of deferred tax) 9 0.9 (1.8)
Own shares 10 — (3.0)
Net addition/(reduction) to shareholders’ funds 15.0 (29.4)
Opening shareholders’ funds 315.6 345.0
Closing shareholders’ funds 330.6 315.6
Profit attributable to shareholders
In accordance with the concession granted under the Companies Act 2006, section 408, the profit and loss account of 
Chemring Group PLC has not been presented separately in these financial statements. There is no material difference between 
the results disclosed and the results on an unmodified historical cost basis. The Company reported a profit for the financial year 
ended 31 October 2013 of £28.8 million (2012: £6.9 million).
The auditor's remuneration for audit and other services is disclosed in note 6 to the group financial statements.
Cash flow statement
In accordance with the exemption under FRS 1 (Revised) Cash flow statements, the Company’s cash flow statement has not 
been presented separately in these financial statements.
Going concern
The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate 
resources to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements. Further detail is 
contained in the financial review on page 32.
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
144 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Notes to the parent company financial statements
for the year ended 31 October 2013
1. Chemring Group PLC accounting policies
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards. The 
particular accounting policies adopted have been applied 
consistently throughout the current and previous year and 
are described below.
Accounting convention
The financial statements are prepared under the historical 
cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of property, 
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, applicable 
accounting standards and UK generally accepted accounting 
practice (“UK GAAP“).
Related parties
The Company is exempt under FRS 8 Related Party 
Disclosures from disclosing transactions with other members 
of the Group. 
Revenue recognition
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to 
the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate 
applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated 
future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial 
asset to its net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when 
the shareholder’s rights to receive payment have been 
established.
Tangible fixed assets
Property, plant and equipment is held at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment 
loss. No depreciation is provided on freehold land. On other 
assets, depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write 
down their cost or valuation to their estimated residual values 
by equal instalments over their estimated useful economic 
lives, which are considered to be:
Leasehold buildings – the period of the lease
Plant and equipment – up to ten years
Investment in Group undertakings
Investments are stated at cost less any provision for 
impairment in value.
Operating leases
Operating lease rental charges are taken to the profit and loss 
account on a straight–line basis over the life of the lease.
Provisions
A provision is recognised when the Company has a present 
legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and 
it is probable that settlement will be required of an amount 
that can be reliably estimated. Long–term liabilities and 
provisions are discounted when the impact is material.
Current tax
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, 
is provided for at amounts expected to be paid or recovered 
using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or 
substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided in full at the anticipated tax rates 
on differences arising from the inclusion of items of income 
and expenditure in tax computations in periods different 
from those in which they are included in the financial 
statements. Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences 
arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is 
no commitment to sell the asset. Deferred tax assets and 
liabilities are not discounted.
Special capital reserve
The special capital reserve was created as part of a capital 
reduction scheme involving the cancellation of the share 
premium account which was approved by the Court in 1986, 
in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 
1985.
Foreign currencies
The functional currency of the Company is sterling. 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling 
at the rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At 
each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that 
are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at 
rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. These translation 
differences are included  in the profit and loss account.
For a forward foreign exchange contract to be treated as 
a hedge the instrument must be related to actual foreign 
currency assets or liabilities, or to a probable commitment. 
It must involve the same currency or similar currencies as 
the hedged item and must also reduce the risk of foreign 
currency exchange movements on the Company’s operations. 
Gains and losses arising on these contracts are deferred and 
recognised in the profit and loss account, or as adjustments 
to the carrying amount of fixed assets, only when the hedged 
transaction has itself been reflected in the Company’s 
financial statements.
For an interest rate swap to be treated as a hedge the 
instrument must be related to actual assets or liabilities or 
a probable commitment, and must change the nature of the 
interest rate by converting a fixed rate to a variable rate 
or vice versa. Interest differentials under these swaps are 
recognised by adjusting interest payable over the periods of 
the contracts.
If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, 
for example because the underlying hedged position is 
eliminated, the instrument is marked to market and any 
resulting profit or loss recognised at that time.
145
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
1. Chemring Group PLC accounting policies 
(continued)
Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption, 
and direct issue costs are accounted for on an accruals 
basis to the profit and loss account, using the effective 
interest method, and are added to the carrying amount of 
the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the 
period in which they arise.
Pensions
The Company operates a defined benefit pension scheme. 
The defined benefit scheme is a multi–employer scheme 
including employees of other Group companies. It is not 
considered possible to allocate scheme assets and liabilities 
between the various companies and accordingly the scheme 
is accounted for as though it was a defined contribution 
scheme. The amount charged to the profit and loss account 
is the contribution payable in respect of the year. Differences 
between amounts payable and actually paid are shown as 
accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
The Company also operates a defined contribution pension 
scheme. The amount charged to the profit and loss account in 
respect of pension costs and other post–retirement benefits 
is the contributions payable in the year. Differences between 
contributions payable in respect of the year and contributions 
actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in 
the balance sheet.
Share–based compensation
For grants made under the Company’s share–based incentive 
schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value of options 
awarded at the time of grant are charged to the profit and 
loss account. Further details can be found within note 31 of 
the group financial statements.
Notes to the parent company financial statements
for the year ended 31 October 2013
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
146 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Notes to the parent company financial statements
for the year ended 31 October 2013
2. Tangible assets
Land and
buildings
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 November 2012 0.5 1.6 2.1
Disposals (0.3) (0.1) (0.4)
At 31 October 2013 0.2 1.5 1.7
Depreciation
At 1 November 2012 0.2 1.2 1.4
Disposals (0.1) — (0.1)
Charge for the year — 0.1 0.1
At 31 October 2013 0.1 1.3 1.4
Net book value
At 31 October 2013 0.1 0.2 0.3
At 31 October 2012 0.3 0.4 0.7
The Company had no capital commitments as at 31 October 2013 or 31 October 2012.
Land and buildings represent leasehold improvements.
3. Investments
Shares in 
subsidiary 
undertakings
£m
Loans to 
subsidiary 
undertakings
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 November 2012 and 31 October 2013 588.1 6.3 594.4
Impairment
At 1 November 2012 and 31 October 2013 19.2 – 19.2
Net book value
At 31 October 2013 568.9 6.3 575.2
At 31 October 2012 568.9 6.3 575.2
147
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
4. Investments in Group undertakings
The trading Group undertakings at 31 October 2013 were: 
Country of incorporation 
(or registration) 
and operation
% of issued ordinary 
share capital controlled 
by Chemring Group PLC Segment
Trading Group undertaking
Chemring Countermeasures Limited England 100 Countermeasures 
Chemring Defence UK Limited England 100 Pyrotechnics & Munitions
*Chemring EOD Limited England 100 Sensors & Electronics
Chemring Prime Contracts Limited England 100 Pyrotechnics & Munitions 
Roke Manor Research Limited England 100 Sensors & Electronics
Chemring Energetics UK Limited Scotland 100 Energetic Sub–Systems
*Chemring Defence Germany GmbH Germany 100 Pyrotechnics & Munitions
*Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. USA 100 Countermeasures
*Kilgore Flares Company LLC USA 100 Countermeasures
*Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. USA 100 Energetic Sub–Systems
*Chemring Ordnance, Inc. USA 100 Pyrotechnics & Munitions
*Non–Intrusive Inspection Technology, Inc. USA 100 Sensors & Electronics
*Hi–Shear Technology Corporation USA 100 Energetic Sub–Systems
*Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. USA 100 Sensors & Electronics
*Chemring Australia Pty Limited Australia 100 Countermeasures
*Simmel Difesa S.p.A. Italy 100 Pyrotechnics & Munitions
*Chemring Nobel AS Norway 100 Energetic Sub–Systems
Mecar S.A. Belgium 100 Pyrotechnics & Munitions
Associated undertaking
CIRRA S.A. France 49 Countermeasures
* Investments held by a subsidiary company
The directors consider that the carrying value of the investments does not exceed their fair value. Full details of the associated 
undertaking are disclosed in note 17 of the group financial statements.
5. Debtors
2013
£m
2012
£m
Amounts due within one year
Deferred tax asset (see note 11) 0.3 0.6
Other debtors 6.9 10.8
Corporation tax recoverable 5.0 —
Prepayments and accrued income 0.7 1.3
12.9 12.7
Amounts due after more than one year  
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 250.8 279.6
An asset of £1.5 million (2012: £1.0 million) is recognised within other debtors in respect of the fair value of derivative 
financial instruments (see note 24 of the group financial statements). The directors consider that the carrying value of the 
debtors approximates to their fair value. 
Notes to the parent company financial statements
for the year ended 31 October 2013
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
148 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
6. Creditors due within one year
2013
£m
2012
£m
Bank overdrafts 7.3 —
Bank loans — 71.1
Trade creditors 1.3 0.5
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 1.2 37.4
Other creditors 6.9 8.4
Other tax and social security 0.2 0.2
Accruals and deferred income 6.2 5.1
 23.1 122.7
A liability of £0.4 million (2012: £0.2 million) is recognised in other creditors in respect of the fair value of derivative financial 
instruments. Further details are shown in note 24 of the group financial statements.
7. Creditors due after more than one year
2013
£m
2012
£m
Derivative financial instruments (see note 24 of the group financial statements) 2.5 2.5
Loan notes 259.1 261.2
Cumulative preference shares (62,500 shares of £1 each) 0.1 0.1
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 225.4 187.2
487.1 451.0
The cumulative preference shares carry an entitlement to a dividend at the rate of 7p per share per annum, payable in equal 
instalments on 30 April and 31 October each year. Holders of the preference shares have the right on a winding–up to receive, 
in priority to any other classes of shares, the sum of £1 per share together with any arrears of dividends.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Borrowings falling due within:
Within one year 7.3 71.1
Between two and five years 134.6 47.4
After five years 124.5 213.8
266.4 332.3
The interest incurred on the above borrowings is detailed within notes 9 and 21 of the group financial statements. 
8. Called–up share capital
2013
£m
2012
£m
Issued, allotted and fully paid
195,493,918 (2012: 195,491,341) ordinary shares of 1p each 2.0 2.0
2,577 ordinary shares (2012: 14,907) were issued under the Group’s savings–related share schemes during the year. 
The preference shares are presented as a liability and accordingly are excluded from called–up share capital in the balance 
sheet.
Share–based incentive schemes
Full details of the schemes are disclosed in note 31 of the group financial statements.
149
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
9. Reserves
Share premium 
account
£m
Special capital 
reserve
£m
Profit and loss 
account
£m
Total
£m
At 1 November 2012 230.7 12.9 79.6 323.2
Profit for the year — — 28.8 28.8
Ordinary shares issued — — — —
Dividends paid — — (14.7) (14.7)
Share–based payments (net of settlement) — — 0.9 0.9
At 31 October 2013 230.7 12.9 94.6 338.2
The share premium account and special capital reserve are not distributable. Of the £94.6 million in the profit and loss account, 
£31.1 million is distributable, with the remaining £63.5 million arising from the disposal of the investment in  
Simmel Difesa not being distributable. 
The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 October 2013 of 3.8p per share will, if approved, absorb 
approximately £7.3 million of shareholders’ funds. The dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting and accordingly has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. 
10. Own shares
2013
£m
2012
£m
Balance at beginning of the year 9.6 6.6
Acquired — 4.8
Issued to satisfy employee share awards — (1.8)
Balance at end of the year 9.6 9.6
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Chemring Group PLC purchased in the market and held by the Group 
to satisfy awards under the Group’s share–based incentive schemes (see note 31 of the group financial statements). During the 
year, nil (2012: 1,215,000) ordinary shares were acquired and nil (2012: 359,331) ordinary shares were distributed following 
the vesting of awards under the Chemring Group Performance Share Plan. The total number of ordinary shares held in 
treasury at 31 October 2013 was 2,198,814 (2012: 2,198,814), with an average cost of £4.39 (2012: £4.39) per share. This 
represents 1.1% of the total issued and fully–paid ordinary share capital.
11. Deferred tax asset
2013
£m
2012
£m
At beginning of the year 0.6 0.5
(Charge)/credit to profit and loss account (0.3) 0.1
At end of the year 0.3 0.6
The amount provided represents:
Other timing differences 0.3 0.6
The Company has considered the recoverability of the deferred tax asset and concluded that the expected future activities of 
the Company are sufficient to support this value. 
Notes to the parent company financial statements
for the year ended 31 October 2013
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
150 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
12. Staff costs
2013
Number
2012
Number
Average monthly number of total employees (including executive directors) 38 38
The costs incurred in respect of these employees (including share–based payments) were:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Wages and salaries 5.3 4.8
Social security costs 0.7 0.6
Other pension costs 0.5 0.4
6.5 5.8
Included within the 2012 charge is £1.1 million of wages and salaries, and £0.1 million of social security costs, relating to 
compensation for loss of office for David Price and Paul Rayner. Disclosures in respect of directors’ emoluments can be found in 
the directors’ remuneration report on pages 64 to 85.
151
www.chemring.co.uk
Financial statements Other information Financial statements Governance Other information Strategic report 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Corporate Information
Headquarters and
registered office
Chemring House
1500 Parkway
Whiteley
Fareham
Hampshire
PO15 7AF
England
Tel: +44 (0) 1489 881880
Fax: +44 (0) 1489 881123
Website: www.chemring.co.uk
Registration number
86662
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol
BS13 8AE
find out more online
For more information about Chemring Group PLC, please visit  
www.chemring.co.uk where you can access the latest  
shareholder information:
• Current share price
• Key financial information
• Financial calendar
• Shareholder services and notices
• Corporate governance
• RSS news feeds
• Results and presentations
• Analysts’ forecasts
• Regulatory news
Chemring Group PLC’s Annual Report and Accounts 2013 can  
also be viewed online at www.chemring.co.uk/investors.
You can also view and download the Notice for our  
Annual General Meeting.
www.chemring.co.uk
Chemring Group PLC
Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013
152 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
© Chemring Group PLC 2014
The information in this document is the property of Chemring Group PLC and may not be copied or 
communicated to a third party or used for any purpose, other than that for which it is supplied, without the 
express written consent of Chemring Group PLC.  This information is given in good faith based upon the 
latest information available to Chemring Group PLC; no warranty or representation is given concerning such 
information, which must not be taken as establishing any contractual or other commitment binding upon 
Chemring Group PLC or any of its subsidiary or associated companies. 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13
Chemring Group PLC
Chemring House
1500 Parkway
Whiteley
Fareham
Hampshire PO15 7AF
Tel: +44(0)1489 881880
Email: info@chemring.co.uk
www.chemring.co.uk
CHEMRING GROUP PLC ❘ ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS for the year ended 31 October 2013 Stock Code: CHG
