 Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Public Relations      Advertising and Marketing Services      Research and Engagement
Reputation is governed by
what you say, what you do and 
what people say about you.
Our reputation is made by what 
we do for our clients.
Chime Communications plc
14 Curzon Street, London W1J 5HN
Tel: 020 7861 8515
E-mail: enquiries@chime.plc.uk
www.chime.plc.uk
CHIME COMMUNICATIONS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Designed and produced by Rare Corporate Design
www.rarecorporate.co.uk
This Annual Report is printed on Zanders Mega Matt. This paper is sourced from
FSC/PEFC accredited forests, is totally chlorine free, has recycled fibre (50%), 
is suitable for archival storage and qualifies for the Nordic Swan environmental label.
The Chime Group helps clients create, manage,
monitor and market their businesses, brands and
reputations both in the UK and internationally.
Chime is the holding company for the UK’s leading    
public relations group, Bell Pottinger; the UK’s leading
research and engagement group, Opinion Leader; 
and one of the fastest growing advertising and 
marketing services groups in the UK, that includes
VCCP, Teamspirit, TTA and Fast Track.
Contents 
Financial highlights 01
Chairman’s statement 02
Chief Executive’s review 06
Public Relations Division 08
Advertising and Marketing 
Services Division 10
Research and Engagement Division 12
Finance Director’s review 14
Board of Directors 16
Executive management team 18
Directors’ statement on corporate 
governance 20
Directors’ remuneration report 24
Directors’ report 30
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 31
Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of Chime Communications plc 32
Consolidated income statement 33
Consolidated statement of recognised 
income and expense 34
Consolidated balance sheet 35
Consolidated cash flow statement 36
Notes to the consolidated financial 
statements 37
Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of Chime Communications plc 72
Company balance sheet 73
Notes to the Company financial statements 74
Information for shareholders 78
Chime and the environment 80 Financial highlights   01
Operating income
(2006: £77.9m) 
£96.5m
+24%
Profit before tax
(2006: £11.0m) 
£13.8m
+25%
Operating profit
(2006: £12.2m) 
£15.7m
+29%
Final dividend (per share)
(2006: 0.58p) 
0.70p
+21%
Margin
(2006: 15.7%) 
16.3%
Earnings per share
(2006: 3.08p) 
3.43p
+11%
• Operating income up 24% to £96.5 million 
(2006: £77.9 million) - Organic growth of 11%
• Operating profit up 29% to £15.7 million 
(2006: £12.2 million) - Organic growth of 13%
• Margin improved to 16.3% (2006: 15.7%) 
• Profit before tax up 25% to £13.8 million 
(2006: £11.0 million)
• Earnings per share from continuing 
operations up 11% to 3.43p (2006: 3.08p)
• Increased dividend following adoption of 
more progressive policy. Final dividend of 
0.48p per share. Total for 2007 of 0.70p per 
share (2006: 0.58p), an increase of 21%.
• Continue to be cash positive with strong 
cash generation
52.1 53.6 63.0 77.9 96.5
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
6.9 7.3 8.3 12.2 15.7
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
2.36 2.21 2.49 3.08 3.43
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
Operating income (£m) Operating profit (£m) Earnings per share (p) 02    Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007   
Chairman’s statement
“Another terrific year, double 
digit growth across the board
and no sign of any slowdown in
the first quarter of 2008 nor for
that matter the rest of the year.”
Review of operations
All three divisions achieved their budget and
saw improvement in their key performance
indicators.
Public Relations continues to be our largest
division being 53% of operating income 
(2006 – 60%), Advertising and Marketing
Services was 39% (2006 – 34%) and 
Research and Engagement 8% (2006 – 6%).
The Group acted for 1,379 clients in 2007
compared to 1,145 in 2006. 236 of these
clients used more than one of our businesses
(201 in 2006) which represented 62% of total
operating income (2006 – 53%).
164 clients paid us over £100,000 in 2007,
compared to 139 in 2006. Our top 30 clients
represented 45% of total operating income
(2006 – 45%).
New business wins of £40 million in 2007 included:
Summary of results
2007 2006 %
£m £m change
Actual
Operating income 96.5 77.9 +24%
Operating profit 15.7 12.2 +29%
Operating profit margin 16.3% 15.7%
Organic
(1)
Operating income 86.6 77.9 +11%
Operating profit 13.8 12.2 +13%
(1) Excluding acquisitions in 2006 and 2007
Public Relations Division
2007 2006 %
£m £m change
Operating income 51.1 46.9 +9%
Operating profit 9.0 8.2 +9%
Operating profit margin 17.6% 17.5%
Advertising and Marketing Services Division
2007 2006 %
£m £m change
Operating income 37.7 26.3 +43%
Operating profit 5.9 3.5 +68%
Operating profit margin 15.7% 13.4%
Research and Engagement Division
2007 2006 %
£m £m change
Operating income 7.7 4.7 +64%
Operating profit 1.4 1.0 +37%
Operating profit margin 18.1% 21.7% Chairman’s statement   03
Our two largest clients represented 15.6% 
of our operating income, 8.3% and 7.3%
respectively. Both clients are high margin, 
long term, have normal renewal terms and 
have been retained since 2003. No other 
client represented more than 5% of our
operating income. 
Average fee income per client in 2007 was
£70,000 compared to £68,000 in 2006. 
Average income per employee was £105,000 
in 2007 compared to £104,000 in 2006.
Bell Pottinger retained its position as No.1 in 
the ‘PR Week’ League Table and Fast Track
was No.1 in the ‘Marketing’ Sponsorship
League Table. 
Corporate and social responsibility
The Group became carbon neutral on 
1 January 2007 and reduced its carbon
emissions by 37% in 2007. The Group is
targeting a further reduction of 5% in 2008.
In June 2007 the Group published its second
Corporate Responsibility Report, the major
focus of which was the Group’s response to
growing concerns about climate change.
In October 2007 Chime Communications 
was listed on the FTSE4Good Index after
meeting their globally recognised corporate
responsibility standards.
Acquisitions
We made four acquisitions in 2007, all of which
have been successfully integrated into the
Group:
Facts International – 75% of this fieldwork
research business was acquired in February
2007. The remaining 25% is held by the new
Chairman of Facts International, Nick Lamb.
Fast Track – The acquisition of the UK’s leading
sports marketing agency was completed at the
end of April 2007. The initial consideration was
£15 million payable £10 million in cash and 
£5 million in Chime shares. Deferred consideration
is payable on the average profits for the three
years ended 31 December 2009 and the three
years ended 31 December 2012. The maximum
total consideration (initial and deferred) is 
£43 million. The transaction (initial and deferred)
is based on a multiple of 7 times the average
pretax profits.
The Corporate Citizenship Company 
– Chime has acquired this leading corporate
responsibility business and merged it with its
existing business, Smart, with the aim of
becoming the first port of call for clients who
want a full range of services across the
corporate responsibility practice both in the 
UK and globally.
Stuart Higgins Communications – The
acquisition in December 2007 of this public
relations and communications consultancy run
by Stuart Higgins, former editor of The Sun
newspaper. This company has a strong
presence in the sports sector and has been
integrated into Chime’s existing business, 
Fast Track.
Board changes
On 1 July 2007, Rodger Hughes (formerly
Managing Partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers
UK) was appointed to the Board as a Non-
Executive Director and on 1 October 2007 
he took over the role of Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director from Julian Seymour.
Julian retired from the Board on 31 December
2007. The Board expresses its gratitude to
Julian for his massive contribution since the
company started.
Digital
We now offer a full suite of digital services
including online reputation management, digital
strategy, search relations, pay per click, website
design, web mapping and digital media buying.
12% of our operating income in 2007 came
from digital activities compared to 9% in 2006.
In 2006 and 2007 we invested in a new digital
search business (pay per click and natural
search) – VCCP Search. This business is now
profitable and already well established in the top
twenty search businesses in the UK.
In 2008 we have committed to start a digital
research business which we expect to achieve
at least break-even in its first year.
Recent digital wins include:
Capital One
School Foods Trust
Cheapflights.com
Fortnum & Mason 
The Government’s account for 
Alcohol Awareness and Education
SAB Miller 04    Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007   
International operations
All three divisions of Chime offer a
comprehensive international service. This is
delivered through wholly or partly owned
agencies, a variety of alliances and purpose
built networks. We work with more than 
200 agencies across the world.
Our international strategy is client and business
opportunity led. Geography is not a key criterion
as the internet and ease of travel have made
location of little importance.
Our prime interest is not domestic work in other
countries but multinational work in a global
economy. We have been very successful 
in winning contracts for governments,
corporations and institutions that want global
reach, not dependent on geographical presence
but more on strategic skills and quality
implementation internationally.
We have Chime branded agencies in:
Middle East Abu Dhabi
Doha
Dubai
USA Washington
New York
Boston
Germany Hamburg
Munich
Berlin
South East Asia Singapore
Spain Madrid
South Africa Johannesburg
Marketplace
Our market sector is dominated by multi-
discipline agency groups like WPP, Omnicom
and IPG. The key driver is synergy, the whole
being stronger than the sum of the parts and
the fame of individual brands being a key factor
in clients’ choice of supplier. If there is a
downturn in the marcoms sector, and there is
as yet no sign of one, then reflecting the client’s
requirements is essential. Our market is
increasingly diverse and fragmented and so 
is our range of services. No one would be
immune to a downturn but we are well
positioned to remain strong.
‘Diversified communications’ continue to 
grow globally at the expense of ‘advertising
expenditure’ with diversified communications
accounting for 54% of total European marcoms
spend in 2007 (Source: Group M). Income 
from diversified communications has also
overtaken traditional media and advertising
revenue contribution in all the leading global
marcoms groups.
“Chime’s strategy since 2005 
has been to create a modern 
communications group to 
meet the demands of clients 
operating in such a rapidly 
diversifying communications 
marketplace.” 
“All three divisions of Chime offer 
a comprehensive international 
service. This is delivered 
through wholly or partly owned 
agencies, a variety of alliances 
and purpose built networks.
We work with more than 
200 agencies across the world.”
Recent international wins include:
Democratic Republic of Congo
Mining contract review
Latvia
Political campaign
Georgia
Presidential campaign
Nigeria
Presidential campaign
Saudi Arabia
UK Embassy
Qatar
Qatar Foundation
Qatar Investment Authority
Doha Debates
Bahrain
Consultancy to HRH Crown Prince of Bahrain
Abu Dhabi
The Executive Council
Mubadalah
Dubai
Dubai Aerospace Enterprise
USA
US Government Contracts Renewed 
Germany
O2
Middle East
Islamic Common Word Campaign
Sri Lanka
International Media Relations Programme Chairman’s statement   05
Chime’s strategy since 2005 has been to create
a modern communications group to meet the
demands of clients operating in such a rapidly
diversifying communications marketplace. We
are building leadership positions in sectors of
diversified communications which are growing
at above average rates, eg. public affairs, sports
marketing and digital communications. We are
bringing new solutions to the marketplace
anticipating client needs, etc. in deliberative
research and search relations. Most of all, in 
a fragmented and more complex marcoms
environment we are concentrating on the single
focus of ‘reputation’ so that the Group works
together on our clients’ business making sure
the whole does equal more than the sum of 
the parts.
Our view is that the marketplace will continue 
to fragment and diversify. Chime will succeed
by providing a range of services to meet these
client requirements. Our belief is that reputation
management will have equal weight with 
brand management.
Outlook
There appears to be little connection between
the turbulence in the financial markets and the
real economy. The markets, as evidenced by
the current low rating of our business and some
of our competitors, are predicting an economic
downturn. We are experiencing no sign of that
and we list below 10 reasons why we are
optimistic:
1. We are continuing to invest in new product
development, eg. online research.
2. 196 wins across the Group in
January/February 2008 versus 165 in 2007.
3. The sectoral change public relations is
enjoying in the marketplace and its above-
average growth potential.
4. The accelerating performance of Fast Track,
far and away the UK’s largest sports marketing
company. Already this year we have won the
2010 Commonwealth Games TV rights and 
the America’s Cup, acting for the defender 
– Alinghi.
5. Bell Pottinger Public Affairs is the No. 1
public affairs business in the UK. In a more
regulated business environment there is an
increasing need for businesses to talk to
government. We are expanding our public
affairs practice into Brussels and Washington.
6. Our international work is expanding at a fast
rate particularly in the Middle East which is
unaffected by the Stock Market gloom.
• The next America’s Cup challenge acting for 
Alinghi, the holders.
• The world’s largest ever civil aviation aircraft 
order for Emirates.
• The $1.9 billion acquisition of US-headquartered 
aircraft maintenance businesses for 
Dubai Aerospace Enterprise.
• McLaren’s F1 dispute with Ferrari.
• Representing Mark Warner Holidays during the 
Madeleine McCann crisis.
• Reviewing Camelot’s community relations 
strategy.
• Launch of HSBC’s title sponsorship of the 2009 
British Lions Tour of South Africa.
• Supporting the winning Glasgow 2014 
Commonwealth Games bid team.
• Launch of PlayStation 3.
• The highly successful launch of The O2, London’s
newest and most spectacular entertainment 
venue.
• The Prince of Wales’s May Day Business Summit 
on Climate Change with Business in the 
Community, bringing together over 1,000 chief 
executives and senior directors across England.
• BSkyB’s The Bigger Picture, their responsible 
business campaign and initiative.
• Imperial Tobacco’s contested £11 billion offer for 
Altadis of Spain.
Some of the high profile activities we were involved in
during 2007 include:
“Our view is that the marketplace
will continue to fragment and 
diversify. Chime will succeed by 
providing a range of services to 
meet these client requirements. 
Our belief is that reputation 
management will have equal 
weight with brand management.”
7. Our start up VCCP Search is already in the
top twenty UK search businesses.
8. We won the communications account for the
London Organising Committee of the Olympic
Games and Paralympic Games against all the
major agencies.
9. We are the agency of choice for crisis
communications, reputational damage limitation
and government and institutional global
campaigns. Already we have won consultancy
work for the governments of the US, the UK, 
Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Abu Dhabi and Qatar.
10. We have successfully borne down on fixed
costs and increased the proportion of personnel
costs that is variable and performance related
from 13% to 15% in 2007.
2007 was another terrific year and there is no
sign of any slowdown in the first quarter of
2008 nor for that matter the rest of the year.
Lord Bell 
Chairman
10 March 2008 06    Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007   
Building reputations in a
diversified world
Glance through the portfolio of
work that illustrates our 2007
Annual Report, and two themes
may strike you.
The first is the sheer diversity of communications
represented: the use of channels that spread
from traditional press management and
advertising through to fully integrated public
relations, sponsorship, sports marketing, search
engine marketing, digital solutions and campaigns
that include all of these elements and more.
The second is the type of success they
delivered: more than uplifts in brand awareness
or improvements in public image. Chime actively
creates, manages and restores reputations,
delivering benefits to our clients that are longer-
term, more fundamental and more powerful.
Recent shifts in the communications
environment mean that such a mix of work is
no longer as eyebrow-raising as it might have
been a few short years ago. For the first time
since the advent of commercial television, over
50% of worldwide marketing spend now goes
to diversified communications, and less than
half to advertising and media expenditure. 
Peacemaking
Client: Faiths Join Hands
On 13 October 2007, faith made front page news around the world.
A letter signed by 138 Muslim leaders and addressed to the leaders
of Christianity was released in London, Abu Dhabi and Washington.
Its plea for peace between the two religions was hugely significant
in our post 9/11 world. The client needed the release to be managed
with tact, perfect co-ordination, and understanding. Bell Pottinger
obliged, to the letter. 
Simplifying
Client: Dyson
James Dyson is engineering’s
evangelist. He believes that
with a strong benefit, and style,
Dyson products can appeal to
all. As in Bell Pottinger and
VCCP’s Dyson work. VCCP’s
pared down commercials for
the Dyson Ball demonstrated
with elegantly fluid animation
the Ball’s unique mobility. 
No need for high drama (or a
big press campaign). Because
the best agencies let the best
products speak for themselves.
Simple, isn’t it? Chief Executive’s review   07
Chime’s scope of work today demonstrates our
understanding of this new ground; it is also an
affirmation of the positioning and strategy that
the Group has followed since 2005. That was
the year when we announced the development
of Chime as a modern communications group,
evolving to meet the demands of a rapidly
diversifying communications sector. 
Since then we have achieved leadership
positions in the fastest-growing niches of that
diversified world, delivering above average rates
of growth through disciplines such as public
affairs, sports marketing, online search, digital,
public relations, specialist communications and
brand communications.
Today that leadership can be seen not only in
the growth delivered by the Group as a whole,
but in the quality and effectiveness of work for
clients such as O2, Emirates, Texaco, British
Athletics and Lucozade.
Chime argues that reputation is now the ultimate
measure of communications success, and that
reputation management is at least as central to
a client’s success as brand management. This
common understanding runs throughout the
Group, giving Chime a clear, credible and
unique position in the new communications
marketplace. It allows us to draw diverse
disciplines, companies and communications
channels together in integrated and innovative
campaigns that remain focused, purposeful and
deliver real benefits to our clients. 
We have always said that Reputation is a
product of what you say, what you do, and
what others say about you. Chime’s own
reputation is very much a case in point. What
we have done in establishing ourselves as a
carbon neutral communications company gives
us the credibility to co-ordinate challenging,
change-driving events such as The Prince of
Wales’s May Day Summit with Business in the
Community and the Faiths Join Hands initiative.
What others say about us has played a strong
role in the growth of our business over the 
last two years, with client referral and
recommendation the most consistent elements
in the arrival of new business across the Group.
This in turn has allowed agencies such as Bell
Pottinger Sans Frontieres to deliver strong
growth whilst retaining their vital reputation for
tact and discretion.
The global marketplace is today grappling with
an age of open criticism ushered in by the
worldwide web, in which brands and
organisations accustomed to operating within
deferential media environments find themselves
exposed to free moving criticism and discussion
online. Skills and techniques that have been
honed in the UK’s media environment, with its
multitude of media channels and long-running
tradition of free speech, are highly valued in
other markets as a result. Chime’s reputation
management model has been exported to the
Middle East over the last year and we expect
overseas expansion to play a significant role in
the future growth of the Group. 
Despite gloomy economic forecasts for the UK
and other western economies, we therefore
remain strongly positive about Chime’s
prospects for the coming year. We offer a hard-
working model with proven results that is
experiencing broad, growing international
demand, and we deal in an asset – reputation.
Christopher Satterthwaite
Group Chief Executive
Chime argues that reputation is
now the ultimate measure of
communications success, and
that reputation management is
at least as central to a client’s
success as brand management.
This common understanding
runs throughout the Group,
giving Chime a clear, credible
and unique position in the new
communications marketplace.
Chime’s scope of work today
demonstrates our understanding
of this new ground; it is also an
affirmation of the positioning
and strategy that the Group has
followed since 2005.
Entertaining
Client: The O2
One million people visited The O2 in its first
eight weeks. 
VCCP’s launch television campaign had shot
the white elephant of the dome stone dead,
rebranding it as London’s new home of
entertainment. Narrowing their aim, VCCP’s
print and online work invited O2 subscribers
to accept privileged ticket access. SMS and
e-mail campaigns aimed tighter, targeting O2
subscribers according to musical taste. 
Has it worked? O yes: 125,000 O2 subscribers
have bought tickets to date. 
Strengthening
Client: UK Athletics
No other athletics federation has the profile, or income, of UK Athletics. 
No British sport outside football has gained sponsorship anywhere near
the £50 million Fast Track secured from Norwich Union. Yet when Fast
Track were appointed in 1998, funding and events were badly out of
condition. Now, commercial income is fast approaching £13 million and
the BBC broadcasts seven world class UK Athletics events annually.
Because Fast Track went the distance. 08    Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007   
Public Relations
Division
The Bell Pottinger Group comprises 19 companies, including 
the UK’s leading public relations and corporate responsibility
agencies. Bell Pottinger Sans Frontieres’ network of senior
communications practitioners provides discreet consultation and
communications-led solutions for a global line-up of government,
political and corporate clients.
Chime’s Public Relations division delivered
another strong performance in 2007, with the
regulatory environment, the rapid proliferation of
issues confronting organisations in the internet
age and the demand for harder-working
consumer marketing solutions all driving
business to strong-performing specialist
agencies. In addition, a strengthened collective
identity enabled the Bell Pottinger Group to lead
the way in delivering the joined-up solutions that
clients increasingly demand of their
communications agencies.
The recently established Bell Pottinger
Collective has taken a lead role in developing
innovative multi-disciplinary campaigns drawing
on ‘best of breed’ expertise across the Group.
The campaigns delivered for Qatar Financial
Centre, drawing on the skills of nine Chime
agencies, and the NHS’ Connecting for Health
programme, which put together the expertise of
five Bell Pottinger companies, demonstrated
how such solutions now offer a seamless
service to clients who have complex
communications issues. The Faiths Join Hands
initiative led by the Collective, a global plea for
peace in the post-9/11 world, showed why
such activity is increasingly seen as the most
appropriate response to these challenges.
Leadership in the Corporate Responsibility
arena is an increasingly significant source of
competitive advantage to the Bell Pottinger
Group, with CR consultancy and advice an
essential element of many integrated
campaigns. The acquisition of The Corporate
Citizenship Company, a leading global CR
consultancy, and its integration with Chime’s
pioneering CR agency, The Smart Company,
was one of the most significant developments
of 2007. The resulting agency, Corporate
Citizenship, offers global clients unrivalled
breadth and depth of experience in the field.
The transformation of BSkyB’s CR profile during
the year shows the calibre of CR expertise
fused with public relations skills, available within
the Group – and the huge potential that this
fusion represents for the future.
Huge potential is also to be found in the Group’s
approach to digital strategy, and the wealth of
proprietary web mapping and analytical tools
that it has developed over the last year. Digital
sits at the heart of the solutions developed for
clients, addressing the massive implications that
search engines and timeless online archiving of
news pieces have for public relations.
The past year has also seen significant
developments in new business strategy across
the Group. A programme of sales training at
management level has delivered a 26%
improvement in new business performance and
helped to double the number of prospects being
pursued by the Group at the start of 2008. 
Reconnecting
Client: NHS Connecting for Health
The NHS’s £12.4 billion National Programme for IT was haemorrhaging
support. A team from Bell Pottinger and Good Relations addressed
the case. Their own consultants joined the programme’s press office.
Misreporting was tackled. Hostile journalists were taken on hospital
visits to see the programme working. The most convincing
spokespeople - doctors and consultants - were better prepared and
deployed. So much support returned that the March 2007 launch of
a major introduction of electronic patient records proved a healthy
success. The treatment was working. 
Celebrating
Client: Fortnum & Mason
2007 saw Fortnum & Mason’s 300th birthday, 
and the shop’s relaunch as the definitive
emporium for civilised living, eating, and drinking.
Although if you don’t read newspapers, watch
television or listen to the radio, you may have
missed all that. The huge coverage was created
with the Fortnum’s team (including, naturally,
their archivist) by Resonate, purveyors of publicity
to Fortnum & Mason since 2004. (They look
forward to the next 296 years.)
Bell Pottinger Sans Frontieres
Bell Pottinger Communications USA
Bell Pottinger Group
Bell Pottinger Business & Brand
Bell Pottinger Corporate & Financial
Bell Pottinger Issues & Crisis
Management
Bell Pottinger Middle East
Bell Pottinger North
Bell Pottinger Public Affairs
Bell Pottinger Public Relations
Bell Pottinger USA
Corporate Citizenship
De Facto
Good Relations 
Good Relations Wales
Harvard Germany
Harvard Public Relations
Insight Marketing 
MMK
Resonate
Search Relations
Traffic Divisional review   09
A strict regulatory environment has driven
demand for communications consultancy from
the property and planning and defence and
aerospace sectors. Bell Pottinger Public Affairs
responded with a powerhouse performance
during the year, growing revenues, taking on new
clients such as Asda, launching a specialist
Defence & Security unit, and further building its
international profile through the launch of a
Brussels office and increasing work in the
Middle East.
Increasing regulatory burdens have also fuelled
demand for the Group’s regional full-service
agency, Bell Pottinger North, which has taken the
opportunity to reinforce its position in the property
and planning market. The agency has also been
quick to respond to the requirements for regional
NHS Trusts to meet demanding government
targets for engaging local communities.
A strong year for Bell Pottinger Corporate &
Financial saw the agency handling Imperial
Tobacco’s £11 billion takeover of Altadis as well
as important campaigns for Permira, defending
the value of private equity in a climate of
increasing hostility, and the Middle East-based
fund, Mubadala, now successfully positioned 
as one of the new heavyweights of the 
financial world. Business-to-business
communications is also growing rapidly, with
wins such as Dubai Aerospace Enterprise,
Adobe and Cisco during the year.
With a new management team on board, Good
Relations has been successfully repositioned 
as one of the UK’s leading one-stop shops for
Public Relations, whilst the specialist IT agency
Harvard saw new business arriving in the form
of Adobe and Cisco.
The launch of a new Issues & Crisis
Management team marks another area in 
which Bell Pottinger Group is responding to 
the challenges that clients face in the new
communications environment. In the digital age,
issues can emerge more rapidly, and carry
wider significance, than ever before. A rapid
and effective response does more than prevent
issues escalating into crises; it can provide the
basis for a pro-active programme of reputation
building that raises profiles and secures
leadership within sectors. The work of the
Issues & Crisis Management team has helped
to transform the reputation prospects of the
commodities trader Trafigura and the NHS
Connecting for Health programme, and played
a key role for McLaren, refocusing the media
agenda following the Ferrari designs scandal.
The techniques that allow Bell Pottinger
agencies to manage reputations for corporate
and government clients are increasingly sought
as the solution to managing brands in a
diversified communications environment. 
The Group’s consumer PR agency, Resonate,
demonstrated the value of a PR-led approach
through its groundbreaking ‘Caroloke’
campaign for 118118, the 300th birthday
celebrations that it orchestrated for Fortnum &
Mason, and Muller’s Big Art project. Another
year of growth saw appointments from Disney,
Tesco Computers for Schools and BUPA,
testament to the growing interest in ‘brand
reputation’ as a marketing tool.
The techniques that allow Bell
Pottinger agencies to manage
reputations for corporate and
government clients are
increasingly sought as the
solution to managing consumer
-facing brands in a diversified
communications environment.
Connecting
Client: Hewlett-Packard
Chime’s technology agency, Insight, helped influence 
$430 million new business, in one corporate division of HP 
in just one year.
Insight’s reference specialists, inEvidence, manage the
company’s reference programme across Europe, Middle
East, Africa and Asia Pacific.
Working with HP’s customers to establish which reference
activities work for them (from using a logo to hosting a 
site visit) and then making connections, inEvidence then
tracks how each reference customer has influenced new 
HP business, while demonstrating clear Return On
Marketing Investment.
Ascending
Client: Emirates
Profile can lag behind success. Emirates Airlines had growth, customer
acclaim and awards but lacked global brand presence. In 2000 Bell
Pottinger climbed on board.
We established a dedicated London-based global press office, getting
Emirates and its management the coverage they deserved. We
established a global brand positioning co-ordinated 35 public relations
agencies in regional hubs across the globe, provided international
governmental advice and helped build a fitting sponsorship portfolio,
including Arsenal’s now renowned Emirates Stadium.
The brand took off.
New business wins included:
- Disney
- Tesco Computers for Schools
-BUPA
- Trafigura
- NHS Connecting for Health
- McLaren
- Adobe
- Cisco
- Permira
- Mubadela
- Dubai Aerospace Enterprise
Key campaigns included:
Protecting McLaren’s reputation in the wake 
of the Ferrari design charges
Reconnecting public opinion with the 
NHS Connecting for Health programme
Building Emirates’ global profile
Changing global perceptions of the Qatar
Financial Centre through a finely targeted, 
highly integrated global campaign
Co-ordinating the Faiths Join Hands global 
plea for peace 10    Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007   
Advertising and
Marketing Services
Division
Chime’s Advertising and Marketing Services Division comprises 
the VCCP Group, providing integrated advertising and marketing
services, the specialist integrated financial services marketing
agency Teamspirit, the property marketing agency TTA, the sports
marketing agency Fast Track and media buyer Pure Media.
It goes without saying that, as marketing budgets
are spread over an increasingly diverse range of
channels in the quest for consumers’ attention,
the agencies best placed for success are those
with brand ideas designed to work across all of
these platforms.
There are several different ways to approach
such a challenge. However, not all of them are
equal when it comes to delivering results for
clients, or delivering success for the agency in
question. Chime has been one of the first
communications groups to put new channels
and diverse, specialist skills at the very heart of
its advertising offering, rather than relying on
adaptations of traditional campaigns to run on
different media. The growth of the division over
the last year, together with the striking originality
and effectiveness of the solutions delivered for
clients, are the rewards of this approach.
The development of the VCCP Group over the past
year can be characterised by ‘3i’s’: integration,
‘intrapreneurialism’ and internationalism. 
True integration has resulted from the decision,
taken over a year ago, to incorporate digital
talent and online creativity at the heart of the
agency’s creative and planning processes. 
The result is brand ideas that are conceived 
to succeed in a modern, multi-channel world
rather than an outdated single-channel one:
ideas like the reinvention of the Millennium
Dome as The O2, a thrilling entertainment
experience sponsored by the mobile brand; 
the launch of the ‘Cocoon’ mobile phone
through a network of social influencers identified
through innovative online mapping techniques;
the hugely visual characterisation of Dyson’s
hand held vacuum cleaner, designed to live
across different channels; the series of
children’s road safety films created by VCCP ,
Texaco and Aardman animations, distributed
across Texaco forecourts and publicised across
different media channels.
Intrapreneurialism (entrepreneurialism within 
the company) helps to maintain VCCP’s
entrepreneurial spirit through harnessing the skills
and enthusiasm of small groups of specialists in
different areas. It has enabled the VCCP Group
to maintain rapid rates of growth despite the
steady maturing of its parent brand, whilst
delivering market-leading skills in such fast-
growth areas as search engine marketing. 
Besides its own growth VCCP Search has added
a vital element to many Group-wide integrated
campaigns. VCCP Blue, developed to offer a
leaner version of the VCCP approach to clients
faced with budgetary constraints, has itself
delivered double-digit growth over the year, as
has the branding consultancy SomeOne and 
the promotional experiential marketing agency,
Branded Moments of Truth. 
The double-digit growth delivered by direct
marketing agency SFW has been accompanied
by memorable and highly effective campaigns for
clients such as More Th>n.
Trusting
Client: Scottish Widows
Teamspirit teamed up with Scottish Widows three years ago. 
As you would expect, they produce professional, effective
advertising and marketing online and below-the-line.
As you wouidn’t expect, Teamspirit also produce Scottish
Widows’ Little Book of Money, a popular, objective guide to 
the perils of personal finance, written by an experienced,
independent financial journalist (with money tips by Duncan
Ballantyne). It doesn’t try and sell one Scottish Widows product.
So you trust them even more. 
Animating
Client: Chevron Ltd
Won’t children ever listen? Yes, if a nine year
old with purple hair called Hector is talking. 
Hector was the star of five animated short
children’s films produced in support of
National Road Safety Week 2007. The brand
was Texaco. 
The scripts were VCCP’s. Triple-Oscar winners
Aardman were the animators. Alongside VCCP
were Good Relations. Their publicity campaign
gained coverage across 46 radio stations, the
parenting press, the ever-trusted local press
and ITV News. All in all, a very grown up result.
The VCCP Group
VCCP (including VCCP Digital)
BMT (Branded Moments of Truth)
VCCP Blue
VCCP Search
SFW
SomeOne
Specialists
Teamspirit
Pure Media
TTA Group
Fast Track Divisional review   11
International growth has come in response to
demand from specific territories for particular
VCCP services. Such organic growth has
enabled international operations to contribute
40% of the business’ revenues over the last year,
with a natural focus on growing and emerging
markets such as Germany and the Middle East. 
With offices planned for the near future in Berlin
and Qatar and high-profile work in these markets
for O2 and the Qatar Financial Centre respectively,
this smart, responsive international network
enjoys considerable opportunities for growth.
The approach of the 2012 Olympic Games in
London has helped to shape a hugely positive
environment for Chime’s sports marketing
agency Fast Track, further establishing sports
marketing as a communications channel in its
own right.
Recognised by The Guardian as the most
important external partner for British Olympic
sport, Fast Track has played a vital role in
securing group-wide Olympic work for Chime,
whilst itself securing key long-term contracts in
major Olympic sports such as basketball. 
Increasing interest and investment in sport is
encouraging sponsors to commit to longer-term
contracts, stretching to 2012 and beyond, and
securing ongoing revenue streams for the
business.
The benefits of a positive sporting environment
are not confined to the Olympics, with Fast Track
also supporting the successful 2014
Commonwealth Games bid team, a win that
opens up considerable opportunities across the
Chime Group, and creating and launching the
British University Championships.
In a diversified communications environment, the
value of sports sponsorship as a dependable
broadcast channel is on the rise. Fast Track’s
activation of Heineken’s high-profile Rugby World
Cup sponsorship during 2007 has further
established the agency as an expert in this field,
and the launch of HSBC’s title sponsorship of 
the 2009 British Lions tour of South Africa will
provide a continuing showcase for its skills.
Occupying another increasingly valued
specialism within the diversified marketing
environment is Teamspirit, Chime’s specialist
financial and professional services agency. 
The agency experienced another year of robust
growth in 2007, delivering a proactive service 
in a volatile environment, where the agency’s
understanding of the dynamics of the financial
marketplace is becoming hugely significant.
Teamspirit has incorporated digital expertise at
the heart of its integrated offering, delivering
greater accountability and harder-working
campaigns that have added to the agency’s
already strong reputation for transparency 
and effectiveness. The continuing growth of 
its PR and media divisions add to the value 
of a tight-knit, fast-moving team with a true 
full-service offering.
Overseas expansion was a key area of strategy
for the TTA Group, which handles public
relations, marketing, events and digital
communications for the property sector,
representing around £50 billion in client
developments. By the close of 2007, 16% of 
the TTA Group’s income was generated from
international sources, with high-profile clients
including Dubai Properties, part of Dubai Holdings.
Pure Media is the Group’s media planning and
buying agency and in 2007 billed over £9.7 million
media, using a wide range of media types
including: TV, Online, Press, Outdoor and Radio.
Pure Media is increasing its integration with other
Chime companies and has already been working
and pitching on a number of projects in the
pharmaceutical, industrial, primary care trust,
transport, travel, gambling, banking and
international sectors. International business will
continue to grow as joint links with Chime’s
international offices are established.
Exceeding
Client: More Th>n
In 2005, More Th>n appointed SFW as their primary
direct marketing agency. In 2007, Precision Marketing
awarded More Th>n ‘Direct Brand of the Year’. 
In those two busy years, SFW completely remodelled
More Th>n’s direct marketing strategy, changing media
selection, retargeting the audience, refreshing the
branding. Sometimes the results were less than the
expected – a 20% drop in cost per sale – and
sometimes rather more – a 20% increase in sales. 
New business wins included:
- London Organising Committee of the Olympic
Games and Paralympic Games
- Capital One
- Department of Health
- Schools Food Trust
- Texaco
- Heineken
- HSBC
- 2014 Commonwealth Games
- British University Championships
Key campaigns included:
The launch of The O2, transforming the UK’s
most famous white elephant into its most
exciting venue
Texaco’s Aardman-animated road safety
campaign
Activating Heineken’s Rugby World Cup
sponsorship
The ‘Locate the 8’ Prison Break launch for Five
The hugely visual launch of Dyson’s hand 
held cleaner
Energising
Client: Lucozade Sport
Sales of elite sport’s favourite boosters jumped 92% from 2000-04.
Who signed up with the Lucozade team to manage their sponsorship
portfolio in 1999? Fast Track. As a result, Lucozade Sport’s
sponsorships now total an impressive number. They are impressive
bodies too: the Premier League, the FA, the Flora London Marathon,
the Great Run Series...
It’s an exhaustive list. 12    Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007   
Research and
Engagement Division
Chime’s Research and Engagement Division consists of 
Opinion Leader, Facts International and Ledbury Research.
For the three companies comprising the
Research and Engagement Division, 2007
proved to be a year of record-breaking growth
and attention-commanding work.
Opinion Leader moved forward in terms of
profile, client base, revenue and profitability,
reaping the benefits of its investment in
innovative deliberative research techniques. 
The dominant market position that the agency
has now established for this form of research,
which uses consultative processes to gauge
how the opinions of groups and individuals
change as a result of sharing opinions and
different perspectives, is translating into an
increasing number of large-scale projects. 
The average project size of the business as 
a whole has more than doubled over the past
year, with Opinion Leader’s largest 20 clients
now representing 72% of revenue, up from 63%
in 2006.
In all, the agency worked with 37 new clients
during 2007, a dramatic increase in the reach 
of the business fuelled by the extension of the
deliberative research approach from the public
to the corporate sector, together with the
continued expansion of the agency’s reputation
management work.
The deliberative approach helped Sky to
develop the content of its ‘bigger conversation’
CR programme and Aegon to build its
customer service excellence initiative, with 
John Lewis and Prudential also making use of
the techniques pioneered by Opinion Leader.
The deliberative approach also underpinned 
the Prince of Wales’s May Day Summit on
Climate Change, which brought together the
Prince of Wales, Stephen Fry and over a
thousand senior business figures to discuss
how the corporate world should best approach
the issue of climate change.
The agency’s profile within the corporate sector
was raised still further by new reputation
management work for Pepsico, Standard
Chartered, the Association of British Insurers,
Barratts and Schroders.
Shining
Client: Qatar Financial Centre
How would you persuade a sceptical audience, with a world of
choice, that Qatar is a great place for business?
By understanding which global media our target audience would
believe, by concentrating on key messages demonstrating Qatar’s
competitive advantage, we allowed Qatar Financial Centre’s
reputation to shine through. One communications team from nine
companies in the Group – Bell Pottinger, Rare, VCCP , SomeOne,
Pure Media, VCCP Digital, VCCP Search, Opinion Leader, plus of
course the client, created a shining example.
Listening
Client: Sky
Sky wanted ideas for the Bigger Picture, their corporate
responsibility scheme. So Bell Pottinger and Opinion Leader
made Sky the audience. 
Almost 200 customers were brought together in the Bigger
Conversation. They workshopped ideas about how Sky could
become a better corporate citizen, then pitched the best ones
to James Murdoch, Chief Executive of BSkyB, and his fellow
panellists. 
Were they listening? Sky is due to implement the winning 
idea in 2008. 
Opinion Leader
Ledbury Research
Facts International Divisional review   13
Opinion Leader’s techniques continued to
experience increased demand from government
departments and the public sector, with the
agency running two programmes of deliberative
engagement to help develop the Children’s Plan
for the Department for Children, Schools and
Families. The Department of Health turned to
Opinion Leader to help develop Lord Darzi’s
programme of reform for the NHS, with 18
deliberative events held across nine regions 
of England. 
Further work in the health sector included 
major research programmes on future policies
for carers and health service provision, for
London’s strategic health authority, and
engagement programmes for a range of primary
care trusts around the country. A Citizens’
Summit helped to inform the development of a
future energy strategy for the Department for
Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform
(DBERR).
Following a competitive pitch, Opinion Leader
was appointed as the retained market research
company for the London Organising Committee
of the Olympic Games and Paralympic Games.
The appointment will see Opinion Leader deliver
all of London 2012’s market research
requirements, which include monitoring support
levels and public attitudes to the Olympic and
Paralympic Games, as well as identifying public
issues and concerns.
Opinion Leader’s success over the year was
matched by that of the division’s two other
agencies: Ledbury Research, which specialises
in high-net-worth individuals and luxury brands,
and the global market research agency Facts
International.
Following a highly successful 12 months,
Ledbury Research can now count seven of the
world’s 10 largest luxury brands among its
clients, along with four of the best five private
banks, as ranked by respected international
financial magazine, Euromoney. The agency’s
approach has attracted unprecedented levels of
coverage across major news networks, the Wall
Street Journal, Financial Times and BBC, with
Ledbury invited to speak at several major
research conferences around the world as the
value of its specialised techniques become
more widely appreciated.
Facts International enjoyed its most successful
and most profitable year to date in 2007,
winning the largest ever account and the largest
ever single commission in its 23-year history.
In all, the agency worked with
37 new clients during 2007, a
dramatic increase in the reach
of the business fuelled by the
extension of the deliberative
research approach from the
public to the corporate sector,
together with the continued
expansion of the agency’s
reputation management work.
Activating
Client: The Prince of Wales’s May Day Summit
with Business in the Community
1 May 2007. The Prince of Wales hosts the May Day Summit
at St. James’ Palace. 
Video conferencing links the Palace to over 1,000 senior
business figures at nine sites across the UK. After deliberating
on what their companies can do to limit climate change, 5,500
tangible pledges are made. And 600 businesses join the May
Day Companies Network. All in one day. All organised by one
company: Opinion Leader and supported with the branding
designed by SomeOne. 
New business wins included:
- London Organising Committee of the 
Olympic Games and Paralympic Games
- Barratts
- Department for Business, Enterprise and 
Regulatory Reform (DBERR)
- Sky
- Department for Children, Schools and Families
- Pepsico
- Department of Health
- The Association of British Insurers
- Standard Chartered
- Schroders
- John Lewis
- Prudential
- Aegon
- BDRC
- Barclays Wealth
Key campaigns included:
Helping to develop Lord Darzi’s proposals for
NHS reform
A Citizens’ Summit helping to form energy
strategy for DBERR
Reputation management work for Pepsico
Sky’s ‘bigger conversation’ CR programme
Bringing together the Prince of Wales, 
Stephen Fry and over a thousand senior
business figures for the Prince of Wales’s 
May Day Summit on Climate Change 14    Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007   
Finance Director’s review
“It is important that we maintain
tight financial control and
manage our cash resources
very carefully. If there is a
downturn this will become 
even more important.”
We have continued to grow
ahead of the marketplace and
2007 was the fourth year in
succession that the Group has
had double-digit growth in
operating profits.
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
The Group manages its internal operational
performance using a number of KPIs. The most
important of these are as follows:
2007 2006
Operating profit margin 16.3% 15.7%
Staff costs/
Operating income 58.5% 60.1%
Average fee income 
per client £70,000 £68,000
Average fee income 
per employee £105,000 £104,000
% of operating income 
from clients shared by 
more than one business 
in the Group 62% 53%
% of income from 
international work 34% 32%
Cash flow and banking arrangements
Net cash at 31 December 2007 was £0.8 million
compared to £2.9 million at 31 December 2006. 
Net cash comprises cash at bank and loan note
deposits less overdrafts, loan notes and
outstanding finance leases. Finance Director’s review   15
Cash collection immediately prior to 31 December
2007 was extremely good and higher than
normal. This improved the net cash position
and without this improvement net debt would
probably have been about £5 million. Average
net debt during 2007 was £7 million.
The Group generated cash from trading
activities in 2007 of £21.4 million representing 
a cash conversion on operating profits of 155%.
The Group continues to operate well within its
banking covenants and has a borrowing facility
of £25 million which reduces to £21 million 
in February 2009 and reduces further to 
£17 million in August 2009. The facility
continues until February 2010.
As a result of their rapid growth, VCCP have
achieved their full earn-out in 2007. This will
result in a payment of £15.5 million in 2008.
Under the terms of the agreement this is
payable 50% in Chime shares and 50% in cash,
with Chime having the option to pay a greater
proportion in cash. Given the current level of the
share price and in order to minimise dilution to
shareholders, the Board is considering paying 
a greater proportion in cash.
Future deferred considerations (other than
VCCP above) are a maximum of £33.1 million,
comprising £16.6 million payable in cash and
£16.5 million payable in shares or cash at
Chime’s option. The timing of the aggregate 
of these payments is £1.6 million in 2008, 
£0.5 million in 2009, with the balance paid
between 2010 and 2013.
Capital expenditure and investment
Total capital expenditure for 2007 was 
£1.9 million (2006 – £1.7 million).
The main categories of investment are
leasehold improvements (£0.7 million) fixtures
and fittings (£0.3 million), computer software
and equipment (£0.8 million), and motor
vehicles (£0.1 million). 
Procurement
The Group operates a central procurement
function which uses the power of the Group 
to ensure that all businesses buy materials 
and services as cost effectively as possible.
Pensions
All the Group’s employees are entitled to
contribute to the Group’s pension scheme 
or to personal pension schemes. These are
defined contribution schemes.
Cost of share based payments 
and the notional cost of future 
deferred considerations
The cost in 2007 of share based payments 
was £968,000 (2006 – £371,000) and the
notional finance cost of future deferred
consideration payments was £1,186,000 
(2006 – £612,000).
Both these costs are expected to continue 
at a similar level in 2008.
Taxation
The effective tax charge for 2007 was 32%
compared to 28.5% last year. The notional
finance cost of deferred considerations and 
the cost of share based payments are not fully
subject to tax relief. If both these items were
excluded, the effective tax rate would be 28%.
Following the reduction in the corporation tax
rate in April 2008, the effective tax charge in
2008 is likely to be about 31%. 
Dividends
We are increasing the dividend. The Group 
has for many years operated a 5 times dividend
cover policy but it is believed that the Group 
is now in a position to be able to improve the
dividend return to shareholders and will adopt 
a more progressive policy. The 2007 dividend 
is based on 4.5 times cover and subject to
market conditions, we are anticipating 2008
and beyond being based on 4 times cover.
The Board is therefore proposing to pay a final
dividend of 0.48p per share (2006 – 0.40p),
giving a total dividend per share of 0.70p
compared to 0.58p in 2006, this is an increase
of 21%. The final dividend will be payable on 
20 June 2008 to shareholders on the register 
at 30 May 2008. The expected ex-dividend
date is 28 May 2008.
Outlook
The Group will continue to make strong cash
management one of its main priorities for 2008,
but cash outflow will be increased by the
payment of the deferred consideration to the
VCCP shareholders. After allowing for this,
average net debt is expected to be about 
£8 million with net debt at the end of 2008
forecast to be £5 million. This relatively low level
of debt should allow the Group to cope well in
the event there is any downturn in the future.
Mark Smith
Group Finance Director
10 March 2008
44 53 62
2005 2006 2007
Income from 
shared clients (%)
13.2 15.7 16.3
2005 2006 2007
Operating profit 
margin (%)
60 68 70
2005 2006 2007
Average fee 
per client (£’000)
30 32 34
2005 2006 2007
International 
income (%) 16 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007
Lord Bell
Chairman
Piers Pottinger
Deputy Chairman 
Christopher Satterthwaite 
Chief Executive
Mark Smith
Finance Director
Rodger Hughes 
(appointed 1 July 2007)
Senior Non-executive *‡#
Julian Seymour 
(resigned 31 December 2007)
Senior Non-executive *‡#
Dave Allen
Non-executive
Catherine Biner Bradley 
Non-executive *‡#
Paul Richardson
Non-executive *‡#
* Member of the Audit Committee
‡ Member of the Remuneration Committee
# Member of the Nominations Committee
COMPANY SECRETARY
Robert Davison
Lord Bell, aged 66
Chairman
Lord Bell is one of the best known figures in
the United Kingdom communications industry.
He helped found Saatchi & Saatchi in 1970,
and as International Chairman he took Saatchi
& Saatchi into its position as the first British
number one worldwide advertising agency in
1981. He successfully ran the publicity
campaigns for the Conservative Party for the
general elections in 1979, 1983 and 1987.
He was appointed Deputy Chairman of Lowe
Howard-Spink & Bell plc in 1985 and remained
in that position until the formation of Chime
Communications in 1989. He advised the
chairmen of many of Britain’s leading
companies and organisations as well as foreign
heads of state and international business
leaders and politicians. He was awarded a
knighthood in 1990 by Lady Thatcher in her
resignation honours and a peerage by 
Tony Blair.
Piers Pottinger, aged 54
Deputy Chairman 
Following three years at J Henry Schroder
Wagg & Co Limited, Piers Pottinger spent 
three years as an analyst with stockbrokers
Laurence Prust. In 1978, he joined Charles
Barker. He spent two years as Director of
Media Relations at Manufacturers Hanover
Trust in New York before returning to London
as Managing Director of Sterling Financial
Public Relations in 1982. He joined Good
Relations City (now Bell Pottinger Corporate &
Financial) as Managing Director in 1985 and
was also a director of Good Relations Group
plc. He is currently Chairman of Sportech plc,
a Vice President of the National Society for
Epilepsy and a Trustee of the Foundation for
Liver Research.
Christopher Satterthwaite, aged 51
Chief Executive
Christopher Satterthwaite began his
commercial career as a graduate trainee at 
HJ Heinz. Since his grounding on the client
side, he has worked for three different kinds of
marketing communication agencies, for all of
which he became Chief Executive: IMP 1981-
1993, then the UK’s largest sales promotion
and direct marketing agency; HHCL & Partners
1993-2000, ‘Campaign’s 1990s Advertising
Agency of the Decade’; Bell Pottinger 2000-
2001, the UK’s leading Public Relations
agency. Christopher was appointed Chief
Executive of Chime Communications plc in
2002. He is a Non-Executive Director of
Centaur Media plc, appointed in July 2007 
and is Chairman of The Marketing Society.
Mark Smith, aged 52
Finance Director
Mark Smith has been a Chartered Accountant
since 1978 having qualified with Touche Ross
& Co (now Deloitte & Touche LLP). Following
two years as European Finance Director at
RCA Records, he joined Good Relations Group
plc in 1984 and became its Group Finance
Director in 1985. In 1986 he became Finance
Director of Lowe Bell Communications (now
Bell Pottinger Group) and Finance Director 
of Chime Communications at the time of 
the management buy-out in 1989. Since 
1989 he has also been responsible for all
Chime’s corporate transactions. Mark is a 
Non-Executive Director of Holiday Extras
Holdings Limited.
Directors Board of Directors Board of Directors 17
Rodger Hughes, aged 59 
Senior Non-Executive Director
Rodger Hughes is a Chartered Accountant
who was a partner in Pricewaterhouse
Coopers for 25 years, including four years as
Managing Partner and seven years as Head of
the Assurance practice. He has had extensive
experience advising a wide range of clients on
business issues and was for some years the
firm’s Advertising Industry leader. He was, 
until 2007, Auditor to the Duchy of Cornwall.
Rodger is a member of the Steering Board 
and Chairman of the Audit Committee of
Companies House and a member of the
Education Leadership Team of Business in 
the Community.
Dave Allen, aged 51 
Non-Executive Director
Dave Allen is a leading Corporate Brand
Consultant based at JWT. Until 2007 he was
CEO of Team Vodafone where he led and
integrated the activities of the 30 WPP
operating companies that provide marketing
services to Vodafone. From 1991 to 2004 he
was CEO of The Brand Union (formerly
Enterprise IG), a leading brand and identity
consultancy owned by WPP . Here he led major
consulting programmes for BP , KPMG and
Saab amongst others and grew the company
from one office in London to 23 worldwide. 
He joined WPP in 1986 through the acquisition
of Sampson Tyrrell. He started his career at
Kodak where he worked in various positions 
in sales and marketing.
Catherine Biner Bradley, aged 54 
Non-Executive Director
Catherine Biner Bradley is a Swiss lawyer with
offices in Geneva and Vaud who specialises 
in business law and in Swiss and international
tax planning. She founded Bourquin & Biner
Bradley where she remains a partner today.
She serves on the board of directors of a
number of Swiss and international companies.
She was a Director of COLT Telecom plc for
five years commencing with its initial listing on
the London Stock Exchange in 1996 serving
during that period on its Audit and
Compensation Committees.
Paul Richardson, aged 50 
Non-Executive Director
Paul Richardson became Group Finance
Director of WPP Group plc in December 1996
after four years with the Company as Director
of Treasury. He is responsible for the Group’s
worldwide finance function, including external
reporting, taxation, procurement, property,
treasury and internal audit. Previously he spent
six years with the central team of Hanson plc
financing major acquisitions and disposals. He
is a Chartered Accountant and member of the
Association of Corporate Treasurers. He is also
a non-executive director of S.T.W in Australia.
Robert Davison, aged 50
Company Secretary
Robert joined the Group in 1987 as Group
Services Manager, became Assistant 
Company Secretary in 1994 and Director of
Administration in 1998. Prior to joining the
Group he worked in the music industry for ten
years initially for PolyGram, including working
on the launch of the compact disc format in
Europe, and later with RCA Records. In his
current role he is additionally responsible for
the Group’s centralised functions such as IT,
property, HR and risk management. Robert is a
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries
and Administrators. 18 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007
Executive Management Team
Piers Pottinger, aged 54
(For biographical details see page 16)
Christopher Satterthwaite, aged 51
(For biographical details see page 16)
Mark Smith, aged 52
(For biographical details see page 16)
Graham Barr, aged 64
Graham Barr leads Bell Pottinger Sans
Frontieres, Chime’s growing international
consultancy. He was formerly Vice 
President, International Regions, with global
responsibilities for the BP Group based in
London, and prior to that Executive Director,
BP Southern Africa. He was co-chairman 
and a director of the Consultative Business
Movement in South Africa, which played a 
vital role in moving the country to democracy. 
Alongside broad business experience, his
specialities include reputation and political 
risk strategy and management, public 
affairs, negotiations, crisis and relationship
management, corporate social and ethical
policy and change management. A former
political and financial journalist and Deputy
Editor of a leading South African daily
newspaper. Educated at the University of
Cape Town and Harvard Business School.
Adrian Coleman, aged 44
Adrian Coleman is one of the founding
partners of VCCP, which was launched in
January 2002. Since joining Chime, Adrian
now heads up the Advertising and Marketing
Services Division, which includes VCCP , VCCP
Digital, VCCP Search, VCCP Blue, BMT and
SFW. Prior to this he was Chief Executive of
the AMD Group (Chime owned) where he
oversaw the media group, responsible for
publishing, design, online as well as
advertising. Before joining AMD, Adrian was a
partner at HHCL & Partners, a director of IMP,
and started his career working for Exxon on
the client side. Overall, he has a broad
understanding of the marketing mix through
his previous experience.
Viki Cooke, aged 53
Following a successful career in advertising,
communications and planning, Viki co-
founded and is joint CEO of Opinion Leader.
Viki has played a leading role in developing
new thinking about the drivers of corporate
reputation, the use of deliberative methods to
help shape policy, and ways of identifying,
understanding and engaging with hard-to-
reach audiences ranging from those at risk 
of social exclusion to chief executives. Viki is
also a Trustee of Global Action Plan and
Changing Faces.
Sue Farr, aged 52
Sue Farr has been a member of the
Management Team of Chime since 2003 and
is currently leading Chime’s strategic and
business development programme. Prior to
Chime she was European Managing Director
of Golin/Harris, an IPG owned public relations
group where she ran several businesses
across Europe. Most of Sue’s client-side
career has been spent in broadcasting. Firstly
as Director of Corporate Communications for
Thames Television plc (1990-1993), which 
saw her launch UK Gold, and subsequently 
as Director of Marketing for the BBC 
(1993-2000), where she was responsible for
marketing strategy, planning and implementation
across all the BBC’s public service brands. 
She’s a Trustee of Historic Royal Palaces, 
non-executive director at Motivcom, and a
director of The Marketing Society since 1984,
she was the first woman Chair in 1991-1992.
She was a non-executive director of New
Look plc from 1994 until 1996. She was
Chairman of The Marketing Group of Great
Britain in 1999-2001. She was voted the
Advertising Woman of the Year in 1997, a WACL
Woman of Achievement in 1998 and awarded
The Marketing Society ‘Grand Prix’ in 1998.
Jim Glover, aged 42
Jim has worked in the sports marketing
industry for over 15 years. After beginning at
IMG specialising in golf clients, Jim joined US
based golf management company Cornerstone
Sports, managing the European office. In 1994
he set up Lighthouse Communications, one of
the first independent agencies to offer the
corporate world independent, impartial advice
on sponsorship. Over the next ten years, 
Jim built the company into one the leading
and most respected independent consulting
agencies in Europe, responsible for creating
successful sponsorship programmes for
Heineken International, GlaxoSmithKline, MMC
and Ford. In December 2005, he oversaw the
successful acquisition of Lighthouse by
leading sports marketing agency Fast Track
and was asked to join the merged company
as Managing Director with responsibility for the
client facing elements of the business. Jim lives
in London and is married with four children. Deborah Mattinson, aged 51 
Deborah Mattinson, co-founder and joint CEO
of Opinion Leader, is one of Britain’s leading
practitioners of issue-based research and
consultation. She has unparalleled expertise 
in accessing and understanding public
opinion, in stakeholder dialogue, and in 
citizen engagement. She writes and
broadcasts widely on public opinion. 
She is a Commissioner of the Equal
Opportunities Commission, and a Trustee 
of the Green Alliance.
Kevin Murray, aged 53
Kevin Murray is Chairman of the Bell Pottinger
Group, the Public Relations Division of Chime
Communications. 
Kevin specialises in the field of strategic
communications and reputation management
and has years of experience advising chairmen
and chief executives, as well as managing
complex and global communications projects
and departments. 
Previously he was the Director of
Communications for British Airways and,
before that, Director of Corporate Affairs for
AEA Technology, the international science and
engineering business that was floated off from
the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority.
Prior to AEA, Kevin was Group Public
Relations Manager for Bayer companies 
in the UK. He is also a former national
newspaper journalist, magazine publisher 
and marketing director.
Alan Pascoe, MBE, aged 60
Following a successful athletics career in
which he represented Great Britain at three
Olympic Games and won a silver medal, 
Alan became involved in sponsorship, where
he has worked for over 30 years. This has
involved managing and delivering major sports
and entertainment programmes, acting as a
consultant to some of the world’s leading
brands and creating and organising some of
Britain’s most successful events. In the mid
80s, Alan set up API which grew to become
one of the top three sponsorship, television
and sports marketing companies in the world,
employing over 300 people in 13 offices
around the world. After selling API to the
Interpublic Group in 1998, Alan set up Fast
Track as a specialist sponsorship consultancy
with the initial task of supporting UK Athletics
to revive and re-launch British athletics. In
September 2003, Alan was appointed to one
of his most challenging roles yet as Vice-
Chairman of the London 2012 Olympic bid
which was awarded to London by the IOC 
on 6 July 2005. In 2004 Alan was voted
Sponsorship Personality of the Year by Hollis
Publishing and has led Fast Track into a
hugely successful period of growth and
industry recognition, becoming the first ever
company to win back-to-back sponsorship
industry awards as well as being nominated as
the leading sponsorship agency in the UK by
Marketing Magazine in 2005 and 2006.
Ian Priest, aged 44
Ian Priest, Founding Partner at VCCP , started
below-the-line and migrated to advertising,
with excellent integrated credentials. 
His approach to work is team based, to
encourage respect, fun, ambition and speed.
He loves working with like-minded clients 
and has proven time and time again that he
delivers outstanding work that gets it right.
From Account Executive at IMP in 1986 to
Managing Director of HHCL & Partners in
1999, Ian’s career has been carved out 
of brilliant campaigns and hard-nosed
business reality.
Jon Ridgeon, aged 41
Jon is a former two-time Olympic track and
field athlete, world championship silver
medallist at 110m hurdles and graduate from
Cambridge University. Post his athletics career,
Jon entered sports marketing in 1994, initially
specialising in rights marketing. When Fast
Track was established in 1998, Jon created
the communications department before
moving on to becoming Managing Director,
with particular responsibility for events,
communications and rights marketing.
Currently, Jon leads a team of close to 50
people responsible for delivering a number 
of world-class event and commercial rights
programmes including the UK School Games,
the Paralympic World Cup and UK:Athletics’
(UKA) televised event series. Recently, Jon led
the renegotiation of the Norwich Union/UKA
contract, resulting in a six year £50 million
contract, the biggest commercial sponsorship
in British sport outside of football. In addition
to his role at Fast Track, Jon is a presenter for
Sky Sports and has also presented for BBC
Television and Radio 5 Live. Jon is married
with one child and remains activity involved in
sport through climbing and mountaineering.
Nick Taylor, aged 55
Nick Taylor began his commercial career as a
graduate trainee in the Aerospace and Medical
divisions of Smiths Industries plc. In 1979 he
founded Harvard Public Relations which went
on to become one of Europe’s leading TMT
consultancies, with offices in London, Paris
and Munich. Following Harvard’s acquisition
by Chime in 2000, Nick joined the Executive
Management Board with responsibility for
Chime’s overseas offices; he is also a member
of the Corporate Development Team handling
M&A activity. Nick is a non-executive director
of Merityre Specialists and a member of the
Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Executive Management Team 19 20 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007
Directors’ statement on corporate governance
Corporate governance report
The Board of Directors is collectively
accountable to the Company’s shareholders
for good corporate governance and is
committed to achieving compliance with the
Principles of Corporate Governance as
contained in the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance that was issued in
2006 by the FRC (“The Code”).
A narrative statement on how the Company
has applied the Principles throughout the year
ended 31 December 2007 and a Statement 
of Compliance appears below.
Narrative statement
Directors
The Company is controlled through the Board
of Directors which, on 31 December 2007
comprised four executive and four non-
executive directors. The biographies of the
current Directors are shown on pages 16 and
17 of this report.
The Board meets quarterly and additionally as
necessary and is responsible for overall Group
strategy, acquisitions and the consideration 
of significant financial matters. It reviews the
strategic direction of the Group’s trading
companies, their annual budgets and their
progress towards achievement of those
budgets. The Board is responsible for ensuring
the integrity of financial information and that
the financial controls and the systems of risk
management, both financial and non-financial,
are robust and appropriate.
The Chairman, Lord Bell, is responsible for the
running of the Board and he ensures that 
all the Directors receive sufficient, accurate
and timely information on financial, business
and corporate issues prior to meetings. He
also ensures that the Non-Executive Directors 
have access to any further supplementary
information they may require should they
request it. 
The Chief Executive’s (Christopher
Satterthwaite) responsibilities focus on 
co-ordinating the Company’s business 
and implementing Group strategy.
The Non-Executive Directors’ terms and
conditions of appointment are available for
inspection at the Company’s registered office
on request and will be available, together with
the Executive Directors’ service contracts at
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
New Directors receive a full, formal and
tailored induction on joining the Board in order
to further inform them of the Company’s
activities and structure. All Directors are able
to take independent professional advice, at the
Company’s expense, in furtherance of their
duties, if necessary. The Company also makes
appropriate training available to existing
Directors. All Directors, in accordance with the
Code, will submit themselves for re-election 
at least once every three years. 
Executive Directors are entitled to accept
external appointments outside the Company
and retain the fees from such appointments
provided that the Chairman’s permission is
sought and confirmed by the Board. 
The Board met on six occasions during 2007.
Piers Pottinger, Paul Richardson and Dave
Allen each attended four meetings. Catherine
Biner Bradley attended three. Rodger Hughes
attended both of the meetings that took place
after his appointment. When absent from
meetings the views of the Director concerned
are sought in advance then put to the meeting
in order to facilitate a comprehensive
discussion. Each Director continues to make
themselves available to their fellow Directors
and ensures he/she contributes to the major
decisions before the Board. 
Non-Executive Directors
The individual Directors have different skills,
experience and qualifications with certain of
them presently or previously working in other
sectors in the economy and they are able to
bring independent judgement to bear on
matters for consideration by the Board. 
Rodger Hughes was appointed as a Director
by the Board on 1 July 2007 and is proposed
for election by shareholders at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting. He became the
Senior Non-Executive Director and Chairman
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination
Committees in October 2007. The resignation
of Julian Seymour as Senior Non-Executive
Director and Chairman of the Committees 
in October and his subsequent resignation 
as a Director in December 2007 was by
mutual consent.
Catherine Biner Bradley is due to retire by
rotation immediately before and is proposed
for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company continues to consider suitable
candidates as Non-Executive Directors and
hopes to make a further appointment in 2008.
The Board considers its current Non-Executive
Directors to be of sufficient calibre and number
that their views may be of sufficient weight
that no individual or small group can dominate
the Board’s decision making process.
Independence of Non-Executive Directors
The Code states that it is for the Board to
determine whether a director is independent 
in character and judgement and consider
whether there are any relationships or
circumstances that are likely to affect a
director’s judgement.
Under the Code, directors with service of 
nine years or more should be re-elected by
shareholders annually. In applying the Code,
the Board has considered whether the length
of service of Paul Richardson (11 years) and
Dave Allen (10 years) has compromised their
independence. They are both experienced and
accomplished in their fields of expertise. In
their association with the Company they have
acquired an understanding of the Company’s
operations, its markets and issues determining
its success. They have shown commitment to
the Company in both time and effort. The
Board does not consider their long service as
directors to be detrimental or to have eroded
their objectivity and should not raise any
concerns about their ability to perform their
duties. Dave Allen and Paul Richardson are
duly proposed for re-election at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The question of non-executive director’s
shareholdings should also be considered
when assessing independence. Rodger
Hughes and Catherine Biner Bradley each
hold a small number of shares in the Company
as disclosed on page 29. The Board considers
that these holdings are not significant and
believes this alone should not raise questions
regarding their independence. The Board
considers that Directors owning shares in the
Company directly aligns them with the
interests of the shareholders.
Paul Richardson and Dave Allen are WPP 
plc’s representatives on the Board under 
the subscription agreement of 1997. The
performance evaluation of these two Directors
has shown that they both have a good record
of involvement in Board level discussions and
their efforts to contribute to and to further the
Company’s strategies have been significant.
The Board considers these Directors to be
independent.
Following performance evaluations for 2007
the Board has considered the independence
of its Non-Executive Directors and considers
them to be independent in both judgement
and character and that the circumstances
shown above are unlikely to affect their
respective judgements when considering
matters of the Company. Directors’ statement on corporate governance 21
Board committees
In addition to each of the trading companies
being managed by separate boards of
directors the Board has three standing
committees. 
Each committee operates within written terms
of reference and these are available on request
from the Company Secretary and will also be
available for inspection at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting. 
In October 2007 Julian Seymour stepped
down as the Chairman of the Committees and
Rodger Hughes was appointed as Senior
Non-Executive Director and the Chairman of
the three committees by the Board.
Audit Committee
The Committee met on three occasions during
the year to discuss accounting, audit and
internal control matters and to review 
financial statements and compliance with
accounting standards and the Company’s
accounting policies. The Audit Committee 
is also responsible for ensuring that a
professional and objective relationship exists
with the Company’s external auditors. The
external auditors are represented at each
meeting and may request a meeting of the
Committee without management being
present if necessary. The Audit Committee
also reviews the work of its sub-committee,
the Risk Management Committee, which
oversees the Company’s risk identification and
management system. Membership is restricted
to those Non-Executive Directors deemed to
be independent by the Board and is shown 
on page 16.
Each meeting was attended by the full
membership except Paul Richardson and
Catherine Biner Bradley who were each
absent for one meeting.
Remuneration Committee
The Committee measures the performance of
the Executive Directors and of key members
of senior management as a prelude to
recommending their annual remuneration. The
Committee is also responsible for overseeing
grants under the Company’s Executive Share
Option and Savings-Related Share Option
Schemes in addition to the Deferred Share
Plan to employees of the Group. When
required the Chairman, Lord Bell, attends the
meetings but is not actually a member. The
remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is
recommended by the Chairman and Finance
Director and takes account of the time spent
on Board and Committee matters. Final 
decisions are made by the Board but no
director takes part in any discussion regarding
his or her own remuneration. In December
2007 the Committee commenced a review of
the Executive Directors’ remuneration. This
was completed in February 2008 and the
Committee’s recommendations are included 
in the Report of the Board on Directors’
Remuneration as set out on page 24.
In 2007 the Committee met only once and 
all members attended. 
Nominations Committee
Membership of the Nominations Committee 
is restricted to independent Non-Executive
Directors as shown on page 16. The Committee
leads the process of appointments to the
Board by evaluation of the skills, knowledge
and experience required for a particular
appointment. The Committee met once during
the year to discuss the appointment of 
Rodger Hughes. 
The Code requires the Company to have a
formalised process for the selection and
appointment of new directors. The Board
considers that a prescriptive procedure is
inappropriate and could prove restrictive and
costly both in terms of identifying potential
candidates and the selection process itself.
The Company does not believe that it should
commit to the exclusive use of external
recruitment consultants although there may be
occasions where this method is employed.
Performance evaluation
In line with the Code the Company carries 
out formal performance evaluations of the
Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
The aim of the evaluation is to recognise the
strengths and address any weaknesses of the
management process; to ensure that the
Board meets its objectives and that
effectiveness is maximised. The 2007
performance evaluation took place in 
February 2008.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by Rodger
Hughes, the Senior Independent Director,
evaluate the performance of the Executive
Directors. The Board, led by the Chairman, 
is responsible for the assessment of the
performance of the Non-Executive Directors. 
The work of the Board and its Committees
together with the processes used and the
business transacted during the year is
assessed by the Board, taking into account
the specific workloads of each forum; the
knowledge and expertise of its members; and
the recommendations made to the Board
regarding specific tasks put before the
Committee concerned.
Relations with shareholders
The Company is keen to promote two-way
communications with its institutional and
private investors and responds quickly to
queries received. Lord Bell, Chairman;
Christopher Satterthwaite, Chief Executive;
and Mark Smith, Group Finance Director, are
the Company’s principal spokespersons with
investors, analysts, the press and other
interested parties. 
All shareholders are sent copies of the
Company’s Annual and Interim Reports 
and, where appropriate circulars and
prospectuses. The Annual and Interim reports
are also published on the Group website,
www.chime.plc.uk, together with
announcements, press releases and Company
information, which enables investors
worldwide to keep informed on the Company’s
progress. Shareholders are given at least 
20 days’ notice of the Annual General Meeting
at which all Directors are generally present 
and at which questions are both invited and
encouraged.
Accountability and audit
Financial reporting
A review of the businesses in the Group is
included in the Chief Executive’s Review. The
Board uses this, together with the Chairman’s
Statement and the Directors’ report on 
page 30 to present a balanced and
understandable assessment of the Company’s
position and prospects. The Directors’
responsibilities for the financial statements 
are described on page 31 of the Report and
Financial Statements.
Internal control
The Board has established a process for
identifying, evaluating and managing significant
risks faced by the Group. The Board regularly
reviews the process, which has been in 
place from the start of the year to the date 
of approval of this report and which is in
accordance with revised guidance on internal
control published in October 2005 (the
Turnbull Guidance). The Board is responsible
for the Group’s system of internal control and
for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system
is designed to manage rather than eliminate
the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives, and can only provide reasonable
and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss. 22 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007 
Internal control (continued)
During the course of its review of the system
of internal control, the Board has not 
identified nor been advised of any failings or
weaknesses which it has determined to be
significant. Therefore disclosure of a
confirmation in respect of necessary actions
has not been considered appropriate.
Information on the Group’s significant risks,
together with the relevant control and
monitoring procedures, is reviewed on a
monthly basis by the heads of the business
units under the guidance of a nominated
executive director. This information is
presented to the Executive Directors to 
assess any identified risks and the overall
effectiveness of the system of internal control.
An update on all significant risk management
issues is made to the Board at each quarterly
meeting. Additionally, companies annually
complete a review of specified risk areas and
their local risk management processes under
the supervision of the trading division finance
directors, the Group Internal Auditor and the
Company Secretary. The Company also has a
sub-committee of the Audit Committee, the
Risk Management Committee, that specifically
monitors and investigates potential areas of
risk raised by the trading companies and by
Group administrative management in areas
such as Property, Human Resources and IT.
Given the nature of the Group’s activities, the
Board recognises the risks associated with its
ability to attract, motivate and retain talented
employees. Accordingly a significant part of
the Group’s risk management procedures are
focused in this area and the Group continues
to utilise employee benefits schemes shown
on pages 24 and 25 to meet this requirement.
In recent years the Group has acquired a
number of companies including overseas
businesses in Germany, USA and the Middle
East. The Board recognises the need to
ensure that established risk management
procedures are integrated into all acquired
businesses and accordingly potential areas 
of non-compliance are identified during the
due diligence process and addressed 
post completion. Control of the overseas
businesses is currently effected by 
designated senior executives reporting 
directly to the Board.
The internal audit function reports directly to
the Audit Committee. A review of this function
has been conducted and reported to the
Board within the annual review of the system
of internal controls. Recommended changes
to the scope and application of internal audit
procedures have been adopted and the
internal audit programme for the year has
been presented to and approved by the Audit
Committee.
The Group has a clear written whistleblowing
statement and procedure available to all staff
regarding concerns of employees about
ethical behaviour and non-compliance with
regulatory requirements and/or the law.
The Group has material investments in a small
number of associated companies that are not
managed by the Group. Accordingly the
Group can only influence, not control, their
management practices and therefore the
review of internal controls for these operations
is less comprehensive than that for the
Group’s managed operations.
Financial control 
The financial control procedures are described
under the following five headings:
1. Financial reporting – The Group has a
comprehensive system for reporting financial
results to the Board; each trading company
prepares monthly results with a comparison
against budget. The Board reviews these for
the Group as a whole and determines
appropriate action. Towards the end of each
financial year the operating units prepare
detailed budgets for the following year.
Budgets and plans are reviewed and
necessary changes made by the Board before
being adopted formally.
2. Quality and integrity of personnel – One of
the Group’s core values is integrity; this is
regarded as vital to the maintenance of the
Group’s system of internal financial control and
is reflected in the quality and experience of the
Group’s financial staff. 
3. Operating unit financial controls – Key
controls over major business risks include
reviews against performance indicators and
exception reporting. The trading companies
regularly assess their exposure to major
business risks and appropriate action is taken
both at operating and Group level in order to
ensure that risk is minimised as far as possible.
4. Computer systems – The Group’s financial
and management information is processed by,
and stored on, computer systems. Accordingly,
the Group has established controls and
procedures over the security of data held on
computer systems. The Group has put in
place arrangements for computer processing
to continue and data to be retained in the
event of complete failure of any system.
5. Controls over central functions – A number
of the Group’s key functions, including
treasury, taxation, acquisitions and insurance
are dealt with centrally. Each of these
functions has clear and detailed procedures
and is required to report to the Board on a
regular basis; the treasury details are reported
daily to the Finance Director.
The Audit Committee and Auditors
The Audit Committee has considered reports
made to it by the executive management of
the Group, which assesses the major business
risks and the control environment against the
criteria for assessing internal financial controls
which are set out in the guidance for directors
on reporting on internal control. The Audit
Committee has reported to the Board that it
has been able to review the effectiveness of
the Group’s system of internal financial control
for the accounting year and the period to the
date of approval of the financial statements.
The Company has a policy for the
employment of the auditors for non-audit
work. The auditors work on tax issues for the
Company but any increase in fees is strictly
controlled by the Audit Committee. Any other
non-audit assignments can be awarded to the
auditors during the year but only where fees
are within Audit Committee approved limits. Directors’ statement on corporate governance 23
Going concern basis
As required by UK company law the Directors
have considered and confirm that it is
appropriate to adopt the financial statements
on the basis that the Company and Group
have adequate resources for the foreseeable
future. Therefore the Company and the Group
continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the financial statements.
Social responsibility guidelines
We are in the business of managing brand and
corporate reputation on behalf of clients and
the Board acknowledges that being socially
responsible is also an important factor in the
management of our business.
The Board confirms that regular consideration
is given to the significance of social,
environmental and ethical (SEE) issues (as
defined by the Association of British Insurers),
and as part of our wider operational risk
framework, identifies significant risks arising
from these areas to short-term and long-
term value.
The Group also considers Corporate
Responsibility (CR) to be an area of business
opportunity. Our subsidiary, Corporate
Citizenship provides not only a focus for our
investment in this field but provides the Group
with specialist expertise. 
The Board believes that Corporate
Responsibility should underpin everything that
we do. The Company is therefore committed
to demonstrating the importance of this not
only in our work for clients but in our own
working practices. 
We continue to publish an annual corporate
responsibility report detailing not only the
principles of our approach to this area but also
setting a benchmark for future performance
improvements. The reports are available on
the company’s website www.chime.plc.uk.
Environment
The business of Chime Communications is
primarily in the UK and delivers services to
clients based on image, ideas, research and
content. As such, our direct and indirect
impact on the environment is minimal and
considered low risk.
However, we acknowledge that our customers
and staff alike have a growing interest in our
impact on the environment. On 1 January
2007 Chime became a Carbon Neutral
company and set an emissions reductions
target of 30% for the year. Reductions of 37%
were achieved. The Group continues to
evaluate its activities with the environment
given a high priority. It is encouraging
enhanced performance from its suppliers and
partners as part of a drive to ensure delivery to
its customers via best environmental practice.
Health and safety
The Board believes that our people are our
most important asset. Our businesses do not
include any industrial or manufacturing
processes and all our staff are office-based.
As such, risk of accidents is low. We continue
to review, maintain and enhance our practices
in this area in line with perceived risks and
new legislative requirements and best practice.
Employee issues
As a people business, our reputation depends
on the skills, knowledge and integrity of our
people. Chime has fostered an entrepreneurial
culture and each of our businesses is
encouraged to create a stimulating, rewarding
and inspiring work environment for our people.
Our people continue to be our main priority.
We recognise that greater central oversight on
Human Resources issues may be beneficial
and continually review the employment
standards across the Group as part of the
general management and risk identification
processes. 
In order to attract and retain talented staff we
continue to operate our Executive Share
Option and Savings-Related Share Option
Schemes together with our Deferred Share
Plan. We also continue to review our incentive
schemes on an ongoing basis.
Ethics
The Group meets all relevant laws, regulations,
codes of practice issued by any relevant
Government or appropriate regulator. We
ensure that all our people are aware and
comply with such standards. In addition, 
we recognise that integrity is essential to 
the maintenance of our reputation in the
marketplace. As part of our regular review
process, issues of conduct are identified,
reviewed and the Board is alerted as
appropriate. In 2007 we published a Code 
of Conduct which formalised the values,
behaviour and ethical standards expected 
of all members of staff.
Compliance statement
Throughout the year ended 31 December
2007 the Company has been in compliance
with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the
June 2006 FRC Combined Code on
Corporate Governance, except for Code A.4.6
– Processes used by the Nominations
Committee – the reason for non-compliance 
is shown on page 21; and B.1.4. – Executive
Directors’ remuneration for external non-
executive directorships is not stated, as this 
is information available in the financial
statements of the companies concerned.
Approved by the Board of Directors and
signed on behalf of the Board 
Robert Davison, Secretary 
10 March 2008 24 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007
Directors’ remuneration report
Group policy on the remuneration of
directors and employees
This report has been prepared in accordance
with Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 
1985. The report also meets the relevant
requirements of the Listing Rules of the
Financial Services Authority and describes
how the board has applied the Principles 
of Good Governance relating to directors’
remuneration. As required by the Act, a
resolution to approve this report will be
proposed at the Annual General Meeting 
of the Company at which the financial
statements will be approved.
The Act requires the auditors to report to the
Company’s members on the ‘auditable part’ 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and 
to state whether in their opinion that part of
the report has been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
The report has therefore been divided into
separate sections for audited and unaudited
information.
Unaudited information
Remuneration Committee
The composition, chairmanship and activities
of the Remuneration Committee are set out 
on pages 16 and 21. The members of the
Committee receive remuneration as set out in
this report. They abstain from participating
where their own interests are concerned and
have no involvement in the day-to-day
management of the Group’s operations.
The Chairman and Finance Director are invited
to attend meetings when required but this
would not include when matters relating to
their own remuneration arrangements are
discussed. The Committee also uses external
independent financial consultants to provide
advice primarily on competitive market levels
and on the performance-related elements of
the Executive Directors’ remuneration.
The Committee’s terms of reference are
available on request from the Company
Secretary and will be available for inspection 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Remuneration Policy
The Group is committed to attracting and
retaining high quality staff. Remuneration is set
at levels commensurate with competing firms
in the same industry and is monitored on a
regular basis. The performance measurement
of the Executive Directors and key senior
management and the determination of their
annual remuneration packages are undertaken
by the Committee. More generally, the
Committee reviews executive remuneration
arrangements regularly to ensure that they
remain effective, competitive and appropriate
to the Group’s circumstances and prospects,
and monitors incentive award levels and
consequent company liabilities. It also 
reviews the awards of shares made under 
the various all-employee Bonus, Deferred 
and Executive Share Plans in terms of their
effect on dilution limits.
Three of the four Executive Directors spend a
large proportion of their time on fee earning
client work. Their remuneration packages are
therefore based on the appropriate market
rate for two different functions. One is the
management of the Group in the executive
roles of Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Chief
Executive and the other is as client handlers
and new business winners. Looked at in those
terms their remuneration is considered to be 
in line with market rates. The Committee
places considerable emphasis on the
performance linked elements of their
renumeration i.e. Annual Bonus, Deferred
Share Incentives and long-term incentives.
Executive Directors are entitled to accept
external appointments outside the Company
providing that the Chairman’s permission is
sought and confirmed by the Board.
The fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors
represent compensation in connection with
Board and Committee meetings, and where
appropriate for devoting additional time and
expertise for the benefit of the Group in a
wider capacity. Non-Executive Directors do not
participate in the Company’s pension or share
option or other incentive plans. The Board
considers that the Non-Executive Directors’
remuneration conforms with the requirements
of the Combined Code.
This Report sets out the Group’s
Remuneration policies for the Directors for the
year ended 31 December 2007. These
policies are likely to continue to apply in future
years, unless there are specific reason for
change.
Remuneration packages
In 2007 there were five main elements of the
remuneration packages for Executive Directors
and senior management:
• basic annual salary and benefits;
• annual bonus payments which cannot
exceed 30% of salary;
• deferred share incentives; 
• long-term incentive plans; and
• pension arrangements.
Basic Annual Salary and Benefits
In setting salary levels, the Remuneration
Committee considers the experience and
responsibility of the Executive Directors and
their personal performance during the previous
year. The Committee also takes account of
salary levels within other companies of a
similar size, as well as the rates of increases
for other employees within the Group. The
Remuneration Committee reviews salaries with
effect from January each year. 
The benefits provided by the group to the
Executive Directors consist principally of a car
or car allowance and private medical insurance.
Annual Bonus
The Executive Directors’ annual bonus
arrangements are focused on the achievement
of the Group’s short-term financial objectives.
For 2007 a bonus of up to 22.5% for the
relevant Director’s salary was paid as the
company met the profit targets set by the
Board. A further maximum of 7.5% could have
been paid had profit targets been exceeded
by up to 30%. The resultant bonuses for 2007
are shown in the remuneration table on page 27. Directors’ remuneration report 25
From 2008 it is proposed to amend the
arrangements as follows; a bonus of up to
25% of the relevant Executive Director’s salary
may be paid to each Director if profit targets
set by the Board are met. A further maximum
of 25% may be paid to each Executive
Director at the Remuneration Committee’s
discretion, based on key performance
indicators linked to the Group’s stated
strategy. Some of these will be non-financial.
The performance metrics used are chosen 
as the Committee believes that they are 
most aligned with shareholder value creation.
Bonus payments are not pensionable.
Deferred Share Plan
During 2006 the Company introduced a
Deferred Share Plan (the Plan). Under the 
Plan restricted rights over existing Chime
Communications shares are granted to
Executive Board Directors, subsidiary Board
Directors and senior employees of the Group.
A participant of the Plan must remain
employed by the Group for a period of three
years after the date of grant for the shares to
vest with the employee. There are no other
performance criteria attached to the restricted
shares. All grants under the Plan are approved
by the Remuneration Committee. The Deferred 
Share Plan replaced the Executive Share
Option Scheme.
The Executive Directors received grants under
the Plan in 2006, but will receive no further
awards under this Plan for the duration of 
the Co-Investment Plan. Details of their
participation are shown in the table on 
page 28.
Co-Investment Plan
In 2006 shareholder approval was granted to
introduce a Co-Investment Plan (CIP). The CIP
was established to align the interests of the
Company’s most senior executives to the
three year business plan put in place during
2006. Participation in the plan is dependent
upon the commitment by the executive to
maintain an investment in the Company’s
shares until the end of the performance
period, over shares with an initial value equal
to 50% of salary capped at a total of
£175,000 per participant. In return for this
commitment the executive is granted an 
award over a maximum of five times as many
matching shares. The number of matching
shares that vest, if any, are dependent upon
the achievement of performance targets
measured over a four year performance
period. 
50% of the matching shares are tied to the
aggregate reported earning per share and
50% are tied to total shareholder return (TSR)
relative to a peer group of other media
companies. 
The maximum award is for achieving EPS
growth equivalent to 26% per annum
compounded and a TSR ranking in the top
15% of the comparator group. In addition to
the above requirements the Remuneration
Committee must be satisfied as to the
underlying financial performance of the
company. The Executive Directors will receive
no further awards under any of the Company’s
long-term incentive schemes for the duration
of this scheme.
Relative TSR is recognised as one of the best
indicators of whether a shareholder has
achieved a good return on investing in the
Group relative to its peer group. In addition, 
an EPS performance condition provides an
appropriate measure of the Group’s underlying
financial performance.
The table on page 29 shows the maximum
number of shares that will vest with the
Executive Directors should the performance
targets be met in full.
Under the rules of the CIP, the Remuneration
Committee has the authority to make
adjustments to the published EPS if events
happen that make it fair and reasonable 
to do so.
In 2007 an adjustment has been made relating
to the amortisation of a long term client
contract of Fast Track, a business acquired 
in 2007. In the view of the Remuneration
Committee this is an accounting treatment
which was not anticipated when the plan was
established and is not a current trading item.
This adjustment represents only 2% of EPS. 
Share Option Schemes
Previously the Company has operated an
Executive Share Option Scheme for Executive
Directors, subsidiary Board directors and
senior employees. All executive options
granted from November 1997 (other than
special executive options) are subject to the
Group achieving during the period of grant, an
average total shareholder return on the shares
for the preceding three years which exceeds
the average FTSE 100 total shareholder return
for the same period and a percentage growth
in earnings per share which is at least equal to
the percentage growth in the Retail Price
Index plus 6% over three years. Executive
share options granted before November 1997
have no performance criteria. The exercise
price of the options granted under the above
scheme is equal to the market value of the
company’s shares at the time when the
options were granted.
Executive share options are only expected to
be granted in future if there is a contractual
commitment or in exceptional circumstances.
The Company also operates a Savings-
Related Share Option Scheme which is open
to all employees after an initial qualifying period
of employment.
Pensions
Pension contributions on behalf of the
Executive Directors are paid by the Company
to the Group’s money purchase pension
scheme or to a personal pension scheme up
to the value of 20% of their basic salary.
Directors’ Contracts
The Company’s policy is that Executive
Directors should normally be employed on
rolling contracts which may be terminated 
by the Company giving no more than 
12 months notice and which otherwise 
expires on retirement, currently at age 65. 
All Executive Directors and employees have
rolling contracts of employment with a notice
period that does not exceed twelve months.
Any compensation payable on early
termination of employment contracts is
considered on a case by case basis. 26 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007
 
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
Chime Communications – Total Return (Ex Net) Rebased 100
FTSE 100 – Total Return (Ex Net) Rebased 100
FTSE All Share media return – Total Return (Ex Net) Rebased 100
Chime Communications Total Shareholder Return Relative to 
FTSE 100 and FTSE All Share Media Sector
Source: Thomson Datastream
Performance Graph 
This graph shows the Company’s performance
measured by total shareholder return,
compared with the performance of the FTSE
All share media index, also measured by total
shareholder return. The FTSE All share media
index has been chosen as the most suitable
comparator as it is the general market index in
which the Group appears.
The table below summarises key details in respect of each Director’s contract.
Years to Company Executive 
Contract expected notice notice
date retirement period period
Executive Directors
Lord Bell 10 May 1994 3 12 months 12 months
Piers Pottinger 10 May 1994 11 12 months 12 months
Christopher Satterthwaite 6 December 2002 13 12 months 12 months
Mark Smith 10 May 1994 12 12 months 12 months
Non-Executive Director appointments are subject to Board approval and election by shareholders at the annual general meeting following
appointment and, thereafter, re-election by rotation every three years. There are no provisions for compensation payments on early termination in
the Non-Executive Directors’ Terms and Conditions of Appointment. The date of each appointment is set out below, together with the date of their
last re-election. 
Date of initial Date of last
appointment re-election
Non-Executive Directors
Rodger Hughes 1 July 2007 –
Dave Allen 3 December 2001 June 2005
Catherine Biner Bradley 11 September 2001 June 2006
Paul Richardson 3 December 1998 June 2006
Julian Seymour (retired 31 December 2007) 2 June 1994 June 2006
Rodger Hughes was appointed by the Board in July 2007 and is retiring in accordance with Article 80 and the requirements of the Code. 
He is proposed as a Director at the Company’s forthcoming AGM. Directors’ remuneration report 27
Audited Information
Directors’ emoluments
Emoluments Total Total
Salary excl. pension Pension 31 December 31 December
and fees Benefits Bonuses contributions contributions 2007 2006
£££££££
Executive Directors
Lord Bell* 615,000 90,577 138,375 843,952 123,000 966,952 918,651
Piers Pottinger 401,000 28,556 60,150 489,706 80,200 569,906 569,721
Christopher Satterthwaite 350,000 19,875 78,750 448,625 70,000 518,625 492,426
Mark Smith 250,000 28,269 56,250 334,519 50,000 384,519 364,798
Non-Executive Directors
Rodger Hughes (appointed 1 July 2007) 20,000 – – 20,000 – 20,000 –
Dave Allen –––––––
Catherine Biner Bradley 17,500 – – 17,500 – 17,500 17,500
Paul Richardson –––––––
Julian Seymour (resigned 31 December 2007) 30,000 – – 30,000 – 30,000 30,000
Alan Chamberlain (resigned 9 March 2006) –––––– 26,243
Lord Hannay (resigned 31 December 2006) –––––– 17,500
Dame Susan Tinson (resigned 31 December 2006) –––––– 17,500
Totals 1,683,500 167,277 333,525 2,184,302 323,200 2,507,502 2,454,339
*Chairman and highest paid director
The sums paid to Julian Seymour are in respect of consultancy fees.
The pension contributions made by the Company are in respect of money purchase schemes. Contributions in respect of Lord Bell, Piers Pottinger,
Christopher Satterthwaite and Mark Smith for the year ended 31 December 2006 were £123,000, £80,200, £70,000 and £50,000 respectively.
Piers Pottinger and Mark Smith are members of the Group’s defined contribution scheme.  28 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007
Directors’ participation in incentive schemes
The following unexercised options over shares were held by directors:
Executive Share Option Scheme
1 January 2007 31 December Date from
(or on 2007 (or on Exercise which
Directors appointment) Exercised Lapsed resignation) price exercisable Expiry date
Lord Bell* 1,000,000 – (1,000,000) – 48p Nov 2002 Nov 2007
Lord Bell 100,000 – – 100,000 209p Nov 2003 Nov 2010
Lord Bell 306,452 – – 306,452 15.5p Apr 2006 Apr 2013
Lord Bell 350,000 – (350,000)# – 39.5p Apr 2007 Apr 2014
Piers Pottinger 100,000 – – 100,000 209p Nov 2003 Nov 2010
Piers Pottinger‡ 500,000 (500,000) – – 32.5p Dec 2006 Dec 2013
Christopher Satterthwaite 33,333 – – 33,333 90p Oct 2002 Oct 2009
Christopher Satterthwaite‡ 1,500,000 (1,000,000) – 500,000 15.5p Apr 2006 Apr 2013
Mark Smith 100,000 – – 100,000 209p Nov 2003 Nov 2010
Mark Smith‡ 56,452 (56,452) – – 15.5p Apr 2006 Apr 2013
Mark Smith 250,000 – (250,000)# – 39.5p Apr 2007 Apr 2014
* Special executive options 
‡ Market price at date of exercise 53.5p
# These options have lapsed because the performance criteria have not been achieved
The gains made on the exercise of the share options were as follows:
Piers Pottinger £105,000
Christopher Satterthwaite £380,000
Mark Smith £21,452
Savings-Related Share Option Scheme
1 January 31 December Date from
2007 (or on 2007 (or on Exercise which
Directors appointment) resignation) price exercisable Expiry date
Christopher Satterthwaite 20,437 20,437 32p July 2009 Dec 2009
Mark Smith 20,437 20,437 32p July 2009 Dec 2009
The market price of the shares at 31 December 2007 was 36.0p and the range during 2007 was 32.25p to 59.00p.
There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for share options during the financial year.
Deferred Share Plan
The following restricted shares were held by directors:
1 January 31 December
2007 (or on 2007 (or on
Directors appointment) Awarded resignation) Award date Vesting date
Lord Bell 214,500 – 214,500 25 May 2006 25 May 2009
Piers Pottinger 139,800 – 139,800 25 May 2006 25 May 2009
Christopher Satterthwaite 122,000 – 122,000 25 May 2006 25 May 2009
Mark Smith 73,200 – 73,200 25 May 2006 25 May 2009
These shares are included as part of the beneficial holdings in the table on page 29. Co-investment Plan – matching shares
The following matching shares were held by directors:
1 January Awarded 31 December
2007 (or on during 2007 (or on
Directors appointment) the year resignation) Award date Vesting date
Lord Bell 2,092,180 – 2,092,180 18 September 2006 September 2010
Piers Pottinger 2,302,630 – 2,302,630 18 September 2006 September 2010
Christopher Satterthwaite 2,247,020 – 2,247,020 18 September 2006 September 2010
Mark Smith 1,632,020 – 1,632,020 18 September 2006 September 2010
Directors interests in the shares of Chime Communications plc
The Directors of the Company, all of whom were directors for the whole year, unless otherwise indicated, and their interests in the Company at 
31 December 2007, or on date of resignation, and at 1 January 2007 or date of appointment were:
Beneficial holdings Share options
1 January 31 December 1 January 31 December
2007 2007 2007 2007
(or date of (or date of (or date of (or date of
appointment) resignation) appointment) resignation)
Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary
Shares of 5p Shares of 5p Shares of 5p Shares of 5p
each each each each
Lord Bell 1,895,914 1,895,914 1,756,452 406,452
Piers Pottinger 2,145,600 2,145,600 600,000 100,000
Christopher Satterthwaite 449,404 449,404 1,553,770 553,770
Mark Smith 540,918 540,918 426,889 120,437
Rodger Hughes (appointed 1 July 2007) – 60,265 – –
Dave Allen ––––
Catherine Biner Bradley 39,514 39,514 – –
Paul Richardson ––––
Julian Seymour (resigned 31 December 2007) ––––
Lord Bell also held a non-beneficial interest in 849,501 ordinary shares at 1 January 2007 and at 31 December 2007. Christopher Satterthwaite
also held a non-beneficial interest in 594 ordinary shares at 1 January 2007 and at 31 December 2007.
Approval
This report was approved 
by the Board of Directors 
and signed on its behalf by 
Robert Davison, Secretary 
10 March 2008
Directors’ remuneration report 29 30 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007
Directors’ report
The Directors present their annual report and
the audited financial statements for the year
ended 31 December 2007.
Business review
The principal business of the Group is
providing public relations, advertising, market
research, direct marketing, design and event
management consultancy. A review of the
performance and development of the Group’s
business during the year, its position at the
year end and its prospects is set out in the
Chairman’s statement and Finance Director’s
report on pages 14 to 15. The principal risks
and uncertainties facing the Group, as well as
the Group’s policies for managing capital can
be found within note 44 of the accounts on
page 70 and within the section headed
internal control within the Directors’ statement
on corporate governance on page 20.
The Group’s use of financial instruments is set
out in note 44 of the financial statements.
The Group uses the following key performance
indicators to measure progress towards
objectives.
2007 2006
Organic operating 
income growth 11% 11%
Organic profit growth 13% 33%
(Organic growth excludes 
acquisitions in 2006 
and 2007)
Operating profit margin 16.3% 15.7%
Earnings per share 3.35p 3.08p
Average fee income 
per client £70,000 £68,000
Average income 
per employee £105,000 £104,000
Staff costs/operating 
income 58.5% 60.1%
Net cash/(debt) £812,000 £2,924,000
Results and dividends
The Group’s income statement is set out on
page 33 and shows a profit before tax for the
year to 31 December 2007 of £13,762,000
(2006 – £11,034,000). The Directors
recommend the payment of a final dividend 
of 0.48p per ordinary share to be paid on 
20 June 2008 to the ordinary shareholders on
the register on 30 May 2008 which together
with the interim dividend paid on 8 November
2007 makes a total of 0.70p per share for the
year (2006 – 0.58p).
Directors and their interests
The Directors’ interests in the shares of Chime
Communications plc are disclosed as part of
the Report of the Board to the Shareholders
on Directors’ Remuneration on page 24. Details
relating to directors’ share options are also
given as part of the Report of the Board to the
Shareholders on Directors’ Remuneration.
There has been no change in the interests of
the Directors between 31 December 2007 and
10 March 2008.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting,
Piers Pottinger is due to retire by rotation
and offers himself for re-election and; 
Paul Richardson and Dave Allen will also retire
and offer themselves for re-election at the
Annual General Meeting as they have been
Non-Executive Directors for more than nine years.
Rodger Hughes was appointed as a Director
on 1 July 2007 and has been proposed for
election at the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting.
Other than described in the Report of the
Board to the Shareholders on Directors’
Remuneration no director of the Company
has, or had during the year, any interests in
the shares of other Group companies or in
any transactions which were unusual in their
nature or were significant to the Company’s
business.
Donations
During the year the Group donated £39,608 
(2006 – £23,115) for charitable purposes.
There were no political donations made
during the current or preceding year.
Employee involvement
The Group operates a policy of informing all
employees on a regular basis of the Group’s
financial performance. In addition, the
Group’s Savings-Related Share Option
Scheme, Performance Related Pay and
bonus schemes encourages employees at all
levels to contribute to the achievement of the
Group’s short and long term goals.
Employment of disabled persons
The Group gives full and fair consideration 
to all applications for employment made by
disabled persons, having regard to their
particular aptitudes and abilities. Opportunities
for training, career development and promotion
do not disadvantage these employees.
Acquisition of the Company’s own shares
At the end of the year, the Directors had
authority, under the shareholders’ resolution
issued on 6 June 2007, to purchase through
the market 25,404,731 of the Company’s own
ordinary shares at prices not less than 5p per
ordinary share and not more than 5% above
the average of the middle market quotations
as derived from the London Stock Exchange
Daily Official List. This authority will last until
the conclusion of the next Annual General
Meeting.
Substantial interests
At 10 March 2008 the following interests, other
than those of the Directors set out above, in 3%
or more of the issued ordinary share capital
had been notified to the Company:
Number of % of
ordinary ordinary
shares share capital
WPP Group Plc 55,183,593 20.72
Fidelity Investments 26,003,323 9.76
Aberforth Partners 22,941,000 8.61
JP Morgan Asset 
Management 12,148,176 4.56
BGI 8,450,532 3.17
Creditor payment terms
The Group’s policy on suppliers is that they will
be paid in accordance with agreed terms and
conditions of trade on a regular basis.
The number of days outstanding between
receipt of invoices and date of payment,
calculated by reference to the amount owed to
trade creditors at the year-end as a proportion
of the amounts invoiced by suppliers during
the year, was 31 days in aggregate for the
Group (2006 – 30). The Company did not
have any trade creditors at 31 December 2007
or 2006.
Auditors
Each of the Directors at the date of approval
of this report confirms that:
• so far as the Director is aware, there is 
no relevant audit information of which the
Company’s auditors are unaware; and
• the Director has taken all the steps that
he/she ought to have taken as a director to
make himself/herself aware of any relevant
audit information and to establish that the
Company’s auditors are aware of that
information.
This confirmation is given and should be
interpreted in accordance with the provisions
of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche
LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors
and signed on behalf of the Board
Robert Davison, Secretary 
10 March 2008 The Directors are responsible for preparing
the Annual Report, Directors’ Remuneration
Report and the financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and
regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to
prepare financial statements for each
financial year. The Directors are required by
the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group
financial statements under International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as
adopted by the European Union. The Group
financial statements are also required by law
to be properly prepared in accordance with
the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation. 
International Accounting Standard 1 requires
that IFRS financial statements present fairly
for each financial year the Company’s
financial position, financial performance and
cash flows. This requires the faithful
representation of the effects of transactions,
other events and conditions in accordance
with the definitions and recognition criteria
for assets, liabilities, income and expenses
set out in the International Accounting
Standards Board’s ‘Framework for the
preparation and presentation of financial
statements’. In virtually all circumstances, 
a fair presentation will be achieved by
compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also required to:
• properly select and apply accounting
policies;
• present information, including accounting
policies, in a manner that provides
relevant, reliable, comparable and
understandable information; and 
• provide additional disclosures when
compliance with the specific requirements
in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to
understand the impact of particular
transactions, other events and conditions
on the entity’s financial position and
financial performance.
The Directors have elected to prepare the
parent company financial statements in
accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice (United
Kingdom Accounting Standards and
applicable law). The parent company
financial statements are required by law to
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs
of the Company. In preparing these financial
statements, the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and
then apply them consistently;
• make judgments and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable UK Accounting
Standards have been followed, subject to
any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the
going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping
proper accounting records that disclose with
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and enable them to
ensure that the parent company financial
statements comply with the Companies Act
1985. They are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of the Company and
hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other
irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the
maintenance and integrity of the corporate
and financial information included on the
Company’s website. Legislation in the United
Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
31 32 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007
Independent auditors’ report to the members of
Chime Communications plc
We have audited the Group financial
statements of Chime Communications plc for
the year ended 31 December 2007 which
comprise the consolidated income statement,
the consolidated statement of recognised
income and expense, the consolidated
balance sheet and the consolidated cash flow
statement and the related notes 1 to 44.
These Group financial statements have been
prepared under the accounting policies set out
therein. We have also audited the information
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is
described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the parent
company financial statements of Chime
Communications plc for the year ended 
31 December 2007.
This report is made solely to the Company’s
members, as a body, in accordance with
section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our
audit work has been undertaken so that we
might state to the Company’s members those
matters we are required to state to them in an
auditors’ report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone
other than the Company and the Company’s
members as a body, for our audit work, for
this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors 
and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the
Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration
Report and the Group financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and
International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union 
are set out in the Statement of Directors’
Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial
statements in accordance with relevant legal
and regulatory requirements and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether
the Group financial statements give a true 
and fair view, whether the Group financial
statements have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report
described as having been audited has been
properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985. We also report to you
whether in our opinion the information given in
the Directors’ Report is consistent with the
Group financial statements. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion,
we have not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit, or if
information specified by law regarding
directors’ remuneration and other transactions
is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance
Statement reflects the Company’s compliance
with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined
Code specified for our review by the Listing
Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and
we report if it does not. We are not required to
consider whether the Board’s statements on
internal control cover all risks and controls, or
form an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Group’s corporate governance procedures or
its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the
Annual Report as described in the contents
section and consider whether it is consistent
with the audited Group financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report 
if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies 
with the Group financial statements. Our
responsibilities do not extend to any further
information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices
Board. An audit includes examination, on a
test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the Group financial
statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited. It also
includes an assessment of the significant
estimates and judgments made by the
Directors in the preparation of the Group
financial statements, and of whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the
Group’s circumstances, consistently applied
and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to
obtain all the information and explanations
which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give
reasonable assurance that the Group financial
statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited are free
from material misstatement, whether caused
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming
our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information 
in the Group financial statements and the part
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the Group financial statements give a true
and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union, of 
the state of the Group’s affairs as at 
31 December 2007 and of its profit for the
year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been
properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation; 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report described as having been audited
has been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985; and
• the information given in the Directors’
Report is consistent with the Group
financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chartered Accountants 
and Registered Auditors
London, United Kingdom
10 March 2008 2007 2006
Note £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Revenue 2,3 206,589 164,143
Cost of sales (110,080) (86,222)
Operating income 96,509 77,921
Operating expenses (80,605) (65,686)
Amortisation of intangibles (159) –
Operating profit 5 15,745 12,235
Share of results of associates 17 (73) (280)
Investment income 7 214 93
Finance costs 8 (938) (402)
Finance cost of deferred consideration 8 (1,186) (612)
Profit before tax 13,762 11,034
Tax 9 (4,409) (3,147)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 9,353 7,887
Discontinued operations
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operations 10 (61) 20
Loss for the year from sale of associate 36 (140) –
Profit for the year 9,152 7,907
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 8,617 7,647
Minority interest 535 260
9,152 7,907
Earnings per share
From continuing operations
Basic 12 3.43p 3.08p
Diluted 12 3.32p 3.02p
From continuing and discontinued operations
Basic 12 3.35p 3.08p
Diluted 12 3.24p 3.03p
Consolidated income statement
Year ended 31 December 2007
33 34 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007  
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
Year ended 31 December 2007
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Loss on revaluation of available for sale investments (23) –
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 391 (106)
Net profit/(loss) recognised directly in equity 368 (106)
Profit for the year 9,152 7,907
Total recognised income and expense for the year 9,520 7,801
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 8,985 7,541
Minority interests 535 260
9,520 7,801 2007 2006
Note £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 13 109,909 74,730
Other intangible assets 14 762 10
Property, plant and equipment 15 4,425 2,972
Investments in associates 17 488 582
Other investments 18 350 –
Available for sale investments 19 227 –
Due from deferred consideration 20 568 950
Deferred tax asset 21 1,191 1,747
117,920 80,991
Current assets
Work in progress 22 1,560 686
Trade and other receivables 23 42,641 30,813
Cash and cash equivalents 10,196 6,652
54,397 38,151
Total assets 172,317 119,142
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 24 (58,574) (37,996)
Current tax liabilities 9 (2,548) (2,475)
Obligations under finance leases 25 (49) (109)
Short-term provisions 27 (16,335) (2,133)
(77,506) (42,713)
Net current liabilities (23,109) (4,562)
Non-current liabilities
Bank loans 26 (8,375) (2,928)
Long-term provisions 27 (12,406) (13,167)
Obligations under finance leases 25 (53) (49)
(20,834) (16,144)
Total liabilities (98,340) (58,857)
Net assets 73,977 60,285
Equity
Share capital 28 13,319 12,684
Share premium account 29 32,217 26,594
Own shares 30 (4,381) (5,968)
Equity reserves 31 32,385 32,385
Translation reserve 32 146 (245)
Accumulated losses 33 (612) (5,592)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 34 73,074 59,858
Minority interest 903 427
Total equity 73,977 60,285
The financial statements were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on 10 March 2008. They were signed on its behalf by:
Mark Smith, Director 
Consolidated balance sheet
31 December 2007
35 36 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007
Consolidated cash flow statement
Year ended 31 December 2007
2007 2006
Note £’000 £’000
Net cash from operating activities 35 15,200 7,694
Investing activities
Interest received 152 93
Dividends received from investments 63 –
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 60 69
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (1,784) (1,703)
Purchases of other intangible assets (66) –
Disposal of investment in an associate 36 – 2,862
Loans (granted to)/repaid by associates (178) 13
Acquisition of subsidiaries 37 (11,536) (359)
Disposal of subsidiary 10 – (74)
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (13,289) 901
Financing activities
Dividend paid (1,624) (1,243)
Dividends paid to minorities (113) (92)
Increase in/(repayments of) borrowings 5,447 (5,557)
Repayments of loan notes (1,333) (878)
Repayments of obligations under finance leases (112) (156)
Proceeds on issue of ordinary share capital 328 –
Buy back of warrants – (800)
Purchase of own shares (960) (214)
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities 1,633 (8,940)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 3,544 (345)
Net funds at beginning of year 6,652 6,997
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 10,196 6,652 1. General information
Chime Communications plc is a Company incorporated in Great Britain under the Companies Act 1985. The address of the registered office is 
No. 14 Curzon Street, London, W1J 5HN, United Kingdom. The nature of the Group’s operations consist principally of public relations, advertising,
market research, direct marketing design and event management consultancy.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group
operates. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
2. Significant accounting policies
Statement of Compliance
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs and interpretations as adopted by the European Union and
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. The financial statements have also
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments that are carried at fair value in
accordance with the accounting policies set out below. In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management is required to
make judgements, estimates and assumptions that may affect the financial statements. Management believes that the judgements made in the
preparation of the financial statements are reasonable. However, actual outcomes may differ from those anticipated. Judgements in relation to
revenue recognition and goodwill have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements. The principal accounting
policies adopted are set out below. The most significant areas where such judgements have been necessary are goodwill, calculation of deferred
consideration and accounting for onerous lease provisions. Where judgement has been applied, the key factors taken into consideration are
disclosed in the appropriate note in these financial statements.
In the current year, the Group has adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, which is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on 
or after 1 January 2007, and the related amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements. The impact of the adoption of IFRS 7 and the
changes to IAS 1 has been to expand the disclosures provided in these financial statements regarding the Group’s financial instruments and
management of capital (see note 44).
Four Interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee are effective for the current period. These are: IFRIC 7
Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29, Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies; IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2; IFRIC 9
Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives; and IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment. The adoption of these Interpretations has not
led to any changes in the Group’s accounting policies.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries)
made up to 31 December each year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an
investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition. Any
excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of
acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited to the income statement in the period
of acquisition. The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minority’s proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of
acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used
by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Investments in associates
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation
in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
The results, assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting except when
classified as held for sale. Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Group’s
share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments. Losses of the associates in excess of the
Group’s interest in those associates are not recognised, unless the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligation or made payments on behalf
of the associate. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2007
37 38 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007   
2. Significant accounting policies (continued)
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of
acquisition is recognised as goodwill and is included in the carrying value of the investment. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the
Group’s share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited in the
income statement in the period of acquisition.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest
in the relevant associate.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets,
liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised in the income statement and is not
subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary or associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested
for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in
determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal. 
Goodwill impairment is assessed by comparing the carrying value of goodwill to the net present value of future cash flows derived from the
underlying assets considering forecast cash flows over an initial projection period of up to three years for each cash-generating unit. After this
period, growth rates of nominal GDP are generally assumed for each cash-generating unit. In certain instances, accelerated growth rates higher
than the nominal GDP may be used for the initial projection period if management believes the higher rate is more appropriate to reflect the
economic cycles that occur within the market which the cash-generating unit operates.
The weighted average cost of capital used by the Group to discount the future cash flows to their present value is 9.1% (2006 – 9.1%).
Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect of earnouts are based on the Directors’ best estimates of future obligations, which are
dependent on future performance of the interests acquired and assume the operating companies improve profits in line with Directors’ estimates
and are included in liabilities greater or less than one year as appropriate. When earnouts are to be settled in cash or share consideration, the fair
value of the consideration is obtained by discounting to present value the amounts expected to be payable in the future. The resulting interest
charge is included within finance costs.
In accordance with the Group’s accounting policy, the carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets are reviewed for impairment annually
or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. The 2007 impairment review was undertaken as
at 31 December 2007. The review assessed whether the carrying value of goodwill was supported by the net present value of future cash flows
derived from assets using a projection period of up to five years for each cash-generating unit. After the projection period, steady growth has been
assumed at rates not exceeding long-term average growth rates for the industry for each cash-generating unit, with no improvements in operating
margin being assumed. Annual growth rate of 2.5% and a pre-tax discount rate of 9.2% have been assumed. 
Under IFRS, an impairment charge is required for both goodwill and other indefinite lived assets when the carrying amount exceeds the
‘recoverable amount’, defined as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Our approach in determining the recoverable amount
utilises a discounted cash flow methodology, which necessarily involves making numerous estimates and assumptions regarding revenue growth,
operating margins, tax rates, appropriate discount rates and working capital requirements. These estimates will likely differ from future actual results
of operations and cash flows, and it is possible that these differences could be material. In addition, judgements are applied in determining the level
of cash-generating unit we identify for impairment testing and the criteria we use to determine which assets should be aggregated.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and comprises the gross amounts billed to clients in respect of
fees earned, expenses recharged and commission-based income. 
Operating income comprises commission and fees earned in respect of revenue. Cost of sales include fees paid to external suppliers where they
are retained to perform part or all of a specific project for a client, and the resulting expenditure is directly attributable to the revenue earned.
Revenue and operating income are stated exclusive of VAT, sales taxes and trade discounts.
Public Relations
Revenue is typically derived from retainer fees and services performed subject to specific agreement. Revenue is recognised when the service is
performed in accordance with the contractual arrangement. Revenue is recognised on long-term contracts, if the outcome can be assessed with
reasonable certainty, by including in the income statement revenue and related costs as contract activity progresses.
Advertising and Marketing Services and Research
Apart from where it is derived from retainer contracts (as above), operating income is recognised on each contract in proportion to the level of
services performed. Costs relating to contracts in progress at the balance sheet date are carried forward in work in progress. Losses are
recognised as soon as they are foreseen. Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases and the related lease obligations are recorded in the balance sheet at the fair value of the leased assets at the
inception of the leases or, if lower, the present value of minimum lease payments. The excess of the lease payments over the recorded lease
obligations is treated as finance charges which are amortised over each lease term to give a constant rate of charge on the remaining balance 
of the obligation.
Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the income statement in equal annual amounts over the periods of the leases.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term or the
period to the next review.
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in UK companies denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates
of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the
rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period. Non-monetary
items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations are translated at the exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet
date. Income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly. Exchange
differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. Such translation reserve differences are
recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss. Translation differences on
non-monetary financial assets, such as investments in equity securities classified as available for sale, are included in the fair value reserve in equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and
translated at the closing rate. 
Finance costs
Finance costs which include interest, bank charges and the unwinding of the discount on deferred consideration, are recognised in the income
statement in the year in which they are incurred.
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated before the share of results of associate, investment income and finance costs. 
Retirement benefit costs 
The pension cost is the amount of contributions payable by the Group to the defined contribution pension scheme and to personal pension
schemes of certain employees during the accounting period. These are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it
excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability
method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent
that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are
not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets
and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint
ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not
reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax 
is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax
is also dealt with in equity.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 39 40 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007   
2. Significant accounting policies (continued)
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost net of depreciation and any provision for impairment. Depreciation is provided in equal instalments
over the estimated useful economic lives of assets, using the following rates:
Short term leasehold improvements 20%
Motor vehicles 16.67%
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 25%
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term 
of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the
asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets comprise acquired customer relationships and computer software. Customer relationships acquired as part of acquisitions
of business are capitalised separately from goodwill as an intangible if their value can be measured reliably on initial recognition and it is probable
that the expected future economic benefit that are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group. Computer software is capitalised based on the
cost incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software. Intangible assets are stated at cost net of amortisation and any provision for impairment.
The costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives, for customer relationships this is five years and computer software this is four years.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in
order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets,
the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life
is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks
specific to the asset for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset
(cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is immediately recognised as an expense in the income statement.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate of its
recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no
impairment loss been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years.
Work in progress
Work in progress is stated at the lower of invoiced cost and net realisable value, net of payments received on account. Cost represents work
supplied from outside the Group awaiting billing to clients at the year-end.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions
of the instrument.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash comprises cash, overdrafts and cash held on short-term deposit (up to three months). Cash equivalents are cash deposits held on three
months deposit at the Royal Bank of Scotland plc. The deposits guarantee the loan note creditors. Interest accruing on the deposits are payable 
to the holders of the loan notes less any costs arising.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable
amounts. 
Investments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under contract whose terms require the
delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Investments are classified either as available for sale, and are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, or at amortised cost, where no
fair value is readily determinable. Gains and losses on available for sale financial assets arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in
equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is
included in the net profit or loss for the period.
Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the fair value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their nominal value. Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the fair value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments. IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 
7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value 
at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis
over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market based 
vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured for all schemes with market-based conditions by use of the Monte Carlo model. For all other schemes, fair value is
measured by use of the Black-Scholes model. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, 
for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
A liability equal to the portion of the goods or services received is recognised at the current fair value determined at each balance sheet date for
cash-settled share-based payments.
The Group also provides employees with the ability to purchase the Group’s ordinary shares at 80% of the current market value. The Group records
an expense, based on its estimate of the 20% discount related to shares expected to vest on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Further
details are included in note 40 to the accounts.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required to
settle that obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards not yet effective
Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for the Group's accounting
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 or later periods, but which the Group has not early adopted. The new standards which are expected
to be relevant to the Group’s operations are as follows:
IFRS 8 Operating segments (effective from 1 August 2009) This IFRS specifies how an entity should report information about its operating
segments in its financial statements. Generally, financial information is required to be reported on the same basis as is used internally for evaluating
operating segment performance and deciding how to allocate resources to operating segments. Management is currently assessing the impact of
IFRS 8 on the Group’s financial statements. 
Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs (effective from 1 August 2009) This amendment requires the capitalisation of borrowing costs, to the
extent they are directly attributable to the acquisition, production or construction of assets that need a period of time to get ready for their intended
use or sale. Management is currently assessing the impact of this amendment on the Group’s financial statements. 
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements (effective from 1 August 2009) This amendment requires information in financial
statements to be aggregated on the basis of shared characteristics and introduces a statement of comprehensive income. Preparers will have the
option of presenting items of income and expense and components of other comprehensive income either in a single statement of comprehensive
income with subtotals, or in two separate statements (a separate income statement followed by a statement of comprehensive income).
Management is currently assessing the impact of this amendment on the Group’s financial statements. 
IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions (effective from 1 August 2007) IFRIC 11 provides guidance on the application of IFRS 2
Share-based payments to transactions which are settled by the purchase of own shares, and transactions in which employees of a subsidiary
receive rights to shares of a parent company. Management does not expect adoption of this interpretation to have a significant impact on the
Group’s financial statements. 
3. Revenue
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
2007 2006
Continuing operations £’000 £’000
Public Relations 128,464 104,248
Advertising and Marketing Services 64,789 52,680
Research and Engagement 13,336 7,215
Group revenue 206,589 164,143
Discontinued operation (note 10) 512 1,103
207,101 165,246
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 41 42 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007
4. Business and geographical segments
Business segments
For management purposes, the Group is currently organised into three operating divisions – Public Relations, Advertising and Marketing Services
and Research and Engagement. These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information.
Principal activities are as follows:
Public Relations
The Public Relations division comprises some of the leading names in the industry, including Bell Pottinger, Good Relations, Harvard, Insight,
Resonate, De Facto and The SMART Company. It is the ranked number 1 PR Group in the UK in the PR Week public relations consultancy league
table for 2006. It serves more than 600 major UK and international brands, as well as governments, government departments, pharmaceutical and
healthcare companies, charities, not-for-profit organisations, professional service firms, consumer brands and famous people. 
Advertising and Marketing Services (‘AMS’)
The AMS division is the fastest growing marketing services group in the UK. It possesses specialist skills in advertising and marketing services –
direct marketing, digital communication, sponsorship exploitation, point of sale, sales promotion and specialist media planning and buying. It also
specialises in the niche markets of property and financial services.
Research and Engagement
The Research and Engagement division is made up of Opinion Leader, Ledbury Research and Facts International. Opinion Leader is one of the
UK’s leading research consultancies and Ledbury Research provides research and advice to brands who market and sell to high net worth
consumers.
Segment information about these businesses is presented below: 
Advertising Elimination 
and Research of results of 
Public Marketing and discontinued
Relations Services Engagement operations Elimination Consolidated
2007 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
External sales 128,976 64,789 13,336 (512) – 206,589
Inter-segment sales 5,993 16,184 1,708 (247) (23,638) –
Total revenue 134,969 80,973 15,044 (759) (23,638) 206,589
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market prices that would also be available to unrelated third parties.
Segment result
Operating income 51,537 37,669 7,711 (408) – 96,509
Operating profit/(loss) 8,894 5,915 1,395 86 – 16,290
Unallocated corporate expenses (545)
Operating profit 15,745
Share of results of associates (73)
Investment income 214
Finance costs (938)
Finance costs of deferred consideration (1,186)
Profit before tax 13,762
Tax (4,409)
Profit for the year 9,353 Advertising
and Research
Public Marketing and
Relations Services Engagement Consolidated
2007 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Other segment information
Capital additions 900 805 96 1,801
Depreciation and amortisation 672 647 84 1,403
Balance sheet
Assets
Segment assets 71,487 87,420 9,085 167,992
Available for sale financial assets 227
Investments in associates 488
Unallocated corporate assets 3,610
Consolidated total assets 172,317
Liabilities
Segment liabilities 35,918 20,677 3,564 60,159
Unallocated corporate liabilities 38,181
Consolidated total liabilities 98,340
2007
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations had the following effect on the segment results of the Public Relations division, analysed into continuing and discontinued
components.
Public
Discontinued Continuing Relations
£’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
External sales 512 128,464 128,976
Inter-segment sales 247 5,746 5,993
Total revenue 759 134,210 134,969
Result
Operating profit (86) 8,980 8,894
The segment results from discontinued operations stated above is equal to the loss before tax from discontinued operations in note 10, which
provides a reconciliation to the net loss from discontinued operations.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 43 44 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007
4. Business and geographical segments (continued)
Advertising Elimination 
and Research of results of 
Public Marketing and discontinued
Relations Services Engagement operations Elimination Consolidated
2006 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
External sales 105,351 52,680 7,215 (1,103) – 164,143
Inter-segment sales 6,068 7,023 211 (591) (12,711) –
Total revenue 111,419 59,703 7,426 (1,694) (12,711) 164,143
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market prices that would also be available to unrelated third parties.
Segment result
Operating income 47,847 26,264 4,705 (895) – 77,921
Operating profit 8,262 3,519 1,021 (29) – 12,773
Unallocated corporate expenses (538)
Operating profit 12,235
Share of results of associates (280)
Investment income 93
Finance costs (402)
Finance costs of deferred consideration (612)
Profit before tax 11,034
Tax (3,147)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 7,887
Advertising
and Research
Public Marketing and
Relations ServicesEngagement EliminationsConsolidated
2006 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Other segment information
Capital additions 1,061 532 153 – 1,746
Depreciation and amortisation 767 356 33 – 1,156
Balance sheet
Assets
Segment assets 55,330 48,414 5,696 109,440
Investments in associates 582
Unallocated corporate assets 9,120
Consolidated total assets 119,142
Liabilities
Segment liabilities (24,426) (13,752) (1,606) (39,784)
Unallocated corporate liabilities (19,073)
Consolidated total liabilities (58,857) 2006
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations had the following effect on the segment results of Public Relations, analysed into continuing and discontinued components.
Public
Discontinued Continuing Relations
£’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
External sales 1,103 104,248 105,351
Inter-segment sales 591 5,477 6,068
Total revenue 1,694 109,725 111,419
Result
Operating profit 29 8,233 8,262
The segment results from discontinued operations stated above is equal to the loss before tax from discontinued operations in note 10, which
provides a reconciliation to the net loss from discontinued operations.
Geographical segments:
The Group’s operations are located in the United Kingdom, Germany, the Middle East and USA. In 2007 the Group’s Advertising and Marketing
Services and Research and Engagement divisions were located solely in the United Kingdom. Public relations is carried out in the United Kingdom,
Germany, the Middle East and USA.
The following table provides an analysis of the Group’s revenue by geographical market, based on the billing location of the client:
Revenue by geographical market
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
United Kingdom 104,713 83,819
Europe, Middle East and Africa 93,575 64,033
USA and rest of the world 8,301 16,291
206,589 164,413
Revenue of £690,000 from the Group’s discontinued operations in 2007 was derived from the United Kingdom (2006 – £1,694,000).
The following is an analysis of the carrying amount of segment assets, and additions to tangible assets and intangible assets, analysed by the
geographical area in which the assets are located:
Carrying amount of 
segment assets Capital additions
2007 2006 2007 2006
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
United Kingdom 166,928 114,028 1,726 1,683
Europe, Middle East and Africa 4,966 4,691 69 45
USA and rest of the world 423 423 6 18
172,317 119,142 1,801 1,746
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 45 46 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007 
5. Operating profit
Profit from continuing operations has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Depreciation of owned property, plant and equipment 1,355 948
Depreciation of assets held under finance leases 48 78
Amortisation of other intangible assets – computer software 19 130
Amortisation of other intangible assets – customer relationships 159 –
Rentals under operating leases – property 5,265 4,104
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 29 (1)
Staff costs (see note 6) 57,381 47,821
Net foreign exchange (profits)/losses (29) 613
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services (see below) 278 241
A more detailed analysis of auditors’ remuneration is provided below:
2007 2007 2006 2006
£’000 % £’000 %
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 66 18 61 21
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for other fees payable to the Group 30 8 30 10
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 182 49 150 51
Total audit fees 278 75 241 82
Tax services 41 11 53 18
Other services 50 14 ––
Other services not covered above –– ––
Total non-audit fees 91 100 53 100
In addition to the audit fees detailed above, £244,000 of fees were capitalised as part of costs of acquisition of Fast Track Sales Limited, Facts
International Limited, The Corporate Citizenship Company and Stuart Higgins Communications Limited. These can be analysed as follows: corporate
finance services – £80,000, tax services £64,000 and fees in relation to services pursuant to such legislation – £100,000.  6. Staff costs
The average monthly number of employees (including executive directors) was:
2007 2006
Number Number
Public Relations 456 436
Advertising and Marketing Services 407 279
Research and Engagement 53 46
916 761
2007 2007
Their aggregate remuneration comprised: £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries 47,371 40,833
Social security costs 6,277 4,946
Pension costs – defined contribution plans (see note 41) 2,765 1,671
Costs of share options granted to directors and employees 968 371
57,381 47,821
7. Investment income
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Available-for-sale investments:
Dividend received 63 –
Loans and receivables at amortised cost:
Interest on bank deposits 128 50
Interest on cash backed loan note 15 30
Other interest receivable 8 13
214 93
8. Finance costs
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Other financial liabilities held at amortised cost:
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans (873) (341)
Interest on cash backed loan notes (15) (30)
Interest on non-cash backed loan notes (42) (6)
Interest on obligations under finance leases (8) (14)
Other interest payable – (11)
(938) (402)
Finance cost of deferred consideration (1,186) (612)
(2,124) (1,014)
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 47 48 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007
9. Tax
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Current tax:
UK corporation tax at 30% 4,691 3,213
Adjustment in respect of prior years (641) (308)
4,050 2,905
Foreign tax 110 5
Adjustment in respect of prior years – 79
4,160 2,989
Deferred tax:
Current year originating temporary differences 130 303
Adjustment in respect of prior years 94 (136)
Tax charge for the year 4,384 3,156
UK Corporation tax is calculated at 30% of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
2007 2007 2006 2006
£% £%
Profit before tax 13,762 11,034
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 30% 4,061 30.0 3,319 30.0
Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profits 491 3.6 274 2.5
Income not taxable (18) (0.1) (72) (0.7)
Deemed interest on deferred consideration 356 2.6 ––
Tax effect of utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised 23 0.2 ––
Prior year corporation tax adjustment (641) (4.7) (229) (2.1)
Prior year deferred tax adjustment 94 0.7 (136) (1.2)
Effect of difference tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 18 0.1 ––
Tax expense and effective tax rate for the year 4,384 32.4 3,156 28.5
Discontinued operations 25 (9)
4,409 3,147 10. Discontinued operations
The results of the discontinued operations which have been included in the consolidated income statement, are as follows:
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Revenue 759 1,103
Expenses (845) (1,074)
Net (loss)/profit before tax (86) 29
Attributable tax credit/(charge) 25 (9)
Loss attributable to discontinued operations (61) 20
Loss on disposal – –
Net loss on disposal of discontinued operations (61) 20
The effect of discontinued operations on segment results is disclosed in note 4.
On 30 June 2007 the Group disposed of the trade and assets in Rare Corporate Design Limited to its management. There were no attributable
disposal costs. At the same time Chime took a 40% stake in the new entity. 
11. Dividends
2007 2006
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: £’000 £’000
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 0.40p (2005 – 0.32p) per share 1,043 793
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 0.22p (2006 – 0.18p) per share 581 450
1,624 1,243
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 0.48p (2006 – 0.40p) per share 1,262 1,001
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these
financial statements.
Under an arrangement dated 3 April 1996, The Chime Communications Employee Trust which holds 5,510,667 ordinary shares representing 
2.07% of the Company’s called-up share capital, has agreed to waive dividends on 3,477,007 ordinary shares, the difference being those shares
held under the deferred share scheme.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 49 50 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007
12. Earnings per share
From continuing and discontinued operations
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
Earnings
2007 2006
Basic 3.35p 3.08p
Diluted 3.24p 3.03p
£’000 £’000
Earnings for the purposes of basic earnings per share being net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 8,617 7,647
Number of shares Number Number
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 257,024,547 247,920,453
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
Share options 8,600,383 4,390,908
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 265,624,930 252,311,361
From continuing operations
2007 2006
Basic 3.43p 3.08p
Diluted 3.32p 3.03p
£’000 £’000
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 8,617 7,647
Adjustments to exclude loss for the year from discontinued operations 61 (20)
Adjustment to exclude profit for the year from sale of associate 140 –
Earnings from continuing operations for the purpose of basic earnings per share excluding discontinued operations 8,818 7,627
The denominators used are the same as those detailed above for both basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing and 
discontinued operations.
From discontinued operations
2007 2006
Basic (0.08)p –
Diluted (0.08)p –
The denominators used are the same as those detailed above for both basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing and 
discontinued operations. 13. Goodwill
2007
Cost £’000
Carrying amount at 1 January 2007 74,730
Exchange differences 275
Recognised on acquisition of a subsidiary (see note 37) 32,466
Other changes in respect of prior year acquisitions 2,438
At 31 December 2007 109,909
The adjustment arising on prior year acquisitions relates to the contingent consideration being re-assessed based on results as follows:
2007
£’000
VCCP Limited 2,287
De Facto Communications Limited (50)
The Smart Company.Net Limited 201
2,438
Goodwill is comprised of the following substantial holdings:
2007
£’000
VCCP Limited 29,883
Fast Track Sales Limited 27,212
QBO Bell Pottinger Limited 8,487
Harvard Public Relations Limited 7,737
Opinion Leader Research Limited/The Smart Company.Net Limited 6,994
80,313
Other acquired goodwill on the acquisition of 21 companies 29,596
109,909
14. Other intangible assets
Customer Computer
Relationships Software Total
Cost £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2007 – 656 656
Additions 864 66 930
At 31 December 2007 864 722 1,586
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2007 – 646 646
Charge for the year 159 19 178
At 31 December 2007 159 665 824
Carrying amount at 31 December 2007 705 57 762
Carrying amount at 31 December 2006 –10 10
Customer relationships are being amortised over their useful economic life of five years.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 51 52 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007 
15. Property, plant and equipment
Short-term Fixtures, 
leasehold Motor fittings and 
improvements vehicles computers Total
Cost £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2007 3,669 647 5,869 10,185
Additions 709 62 1,030 1,801
Acquisition of subsidiary 511 136 482 1,129
Exchange differences –4 77 81
Disposals (246) (202) (1,835) (2,283)
At 31 December 2007 4,643 647 5,623 10,913
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2007 2,878 376 3,959 7,213
Charge for the year 429 93 881 1,403
Exchange differences –1 65 66
Eliminated on disposal (226) (157) (1,811) (2,194)
At 31 December 2007 3,081 313 3,094 6,488
Carrying amount at 31 December 2007 1,562 334 2,529 4,425
Carrying amount at 31 December 2006 791 271 1,910 2,972
The carrying amount of the Group’s motor vehicles includes an amount of £149,983 in respect of assets held under finance leases. The carrying
amount of the Group’s fixtures, fittings and computers includes an amount of £28,243 in respect of assets held under finance leases. As stated in
note 25, the Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessor’s charges over the leased assets.
16. Subsidiaries and associates
The Group’s principal trading subsidiaries and associated undertakings, which are all incorporated in Great Britain (except where noted) 
are listed below:
Proportion
of ordinary 
shares held and
Company Nature of business voting rights
Subsidiaries
Bell Pottinger Communications Limited Public Relations 100%
Bell Pottinger Communications USA LLC* Public Relations 100%
Bell Pottinger Corporate and Financial Limited Financial Public Relations 100%
Bell Pottinger Group Limited Public Relations 100%
Bell Pottinger Interactive LLC* Digital Design 80%
Bell Pottinger Public Affairs Limited Political Public Relations 100%
Bell Pottinger Public Relations Limited Consumer Public Relations and Sports Marketing 100%
Bell Pottinger USA Inc* Public Relations 100%
Bullnose Limited Public Relations 51%
Branded Moments Of Truth Limited Consumer Marketing 80%
Corporate Citizenship Limited Corporate Responsibility Consultancy 100%
Corporate Citizenship Company Inc* Corporate Responsibility Consultancy 100%
De Facto Communications Limited + Healthcare Public Relations 100%
Good Relations Limited Public Relations 100%
Facts International Limited Research 75%
FIL Market Research Limited Research 75%
Fast Track Events Limited Event Management 100%
Fast Track Sales Limited Marketing Consultancy and Event Management 100% Proportion
of ordinary 
shares held and
Company Nature of business voting rights
Fast Track Sailing Limited Sports Marketing Consultancy 100%
Fast Track Sports Media Consultancy Espana S.L. ^ Sports Marketing Consultancy 52%
Harvard Public Relations GmbH ‡ Public Relations 100%
Harvard Public Relations Limited + Public Relations 100%
Insight Marketing & Communications Limited + Public Relations 100%
Ledbury Research Limited Market Research 55%
Lighthouse Communications Limited Sponsorship Selection 100%
MMK Markt- & Medien-Kommunikation GmbH ‡ Public Relations 100%
Opinion Leader Research Limited Market Research 100%
Ozone Marketing Communications Limited Healthcare Public Relations 100%
Pure Media Group Limited Media Buying 100%
Resonate Communications Limited Consumer Public Relations 100%
Stephens Francis Whitson Limited Direct Marketing 51%
Stuart Higgins Communications Limited Sports Marketing Consultancy 100%
Teamspirit Limited + Financial Services Advertising and Marketing 100%
Traffic GmbH ‡ Public Relations 100%
The Smart Company.Net Limited + Corporate Responsibility Consultancy 100%
TTA Public Relations Limited Property Marketing 70%
VCCP Limited + Advertising and Marketing 100%
VCCP Blue Limited Advertising and Marketing 100%
VCCP Digital Limited Digital Advertising and Marketing 100%
VCCP Search Limited Search Engine Marketing 100%
Associates
Meropa Communications (Pty) Limited ±+ Public Relations 20%
Rare Corporate Design Limited Corporate Design 40%
Colour TV Limited Television Production 45%
X & Y Communications Limited Public Relations 29%
± Incorporated in South Africa
‡ Incorporated in Germany
* Incorporated in America
^ Incorporated in Spain
+ Direct subsidiary/associate of Chime Communications plc
These companies operate principally in their country of incorporation.
17. Investments in associates
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Carrying value of investments and loans to associates 392 615
Share of profits/(loss) 96 (33)
488 582
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 53 54 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007
17. Investments in associates (continued)
Aggregate amounts relating to associates
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Total assets 1,086 1,524
Total liabilities (909) (1,561)
Net assets/(liabilities) 177 (37)
Revenue 2,874 4,710
Profit/(loss) for the year (73) (280)
Included in the above liabilities owed by the associates are loans from the Group of £342,800 (2006 – £465,816).
A list of the significant investments in associates, including the name, country of incorporation, proportion of ownership interest is given in note 16.
18. Other investments
Other investments comprise a 10% holding in PSP Holdings Ltd. This has been recorded at cost, less any provision for impairment, as its fair value
cannot be reliably measured as there is no active market.
19. Available for sale investments
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Fair value 227 –
The investments included above represent investments in listed equity securities that present the Group with opportunity for return through dividend
income and trading gains. They have no fixed maturity or coupon rate. The investment was held at fair value at 31 December 2007. The fair value of
these securities is based on quoted market prices. The investment at 31 December 2007 comprised 1,562,500 shares in Clipper Ventures Limited. 
20. Due from deferred consideration
Amounts shown are due from the disposal of Smithfield Financial Limited being the potential deferred consideration due after one year (2006 –
Smithfield Financial £568,000 and Rare Publishing Limited £382,000). Management have assessed the credit risk associated with the balance and
are satisfied that the balance is recoverable.
21. Deferred tax
2007 2006
Deferred tax asset movement £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2007 1,747 1,338
Acquisition of subsidiaries 80 –
(Charge)/credit to equity (411) 577
Charge to the profit and loss account (225) (168)
At 31 December 2007 1,191 1,747
Analysis of deferred tax asset
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 417 573
Short-term temporary differences 61 203
Share-based payments 698 971
Losses 15 –
1,191 1,747
Losses of £0.8 million (2006 – £0.8 million) and $4.4 million in the US (2006 – $3.9 million) have not been recognised in deferred taxation due to
insufficient certainty that there will be appropriate profits available in the future to utilise them. 22. Work in progress
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Amounts recoverable on customer contracts 1,560 686
23. Trade and other receivables
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Amounts receivable from provision of services 35,691 25,430
Other debtors 1,390 1,051
Prepayments and accrued income 5,560 4,332
42,641 30,813
The ageing of the current trade receivables is as follows:
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Not overdue 17,905 10,411
Less than 30 days 11,569 8,591
Between 30 and 60 days 3,070 3,793
Between 60 and 90 days 1,384 1,363
Between 90 and 180 days 1,238 905
Between 180 days and 360 days 972 749
More than 360 days 396 201
36,534 26,013
Provision for irrecoverable trade receivables (843) (583)
35,691 25,430
The average credit period taken on provision of services is 55 days (2006 – 51 days). The Group’s trade receivables are stated after allowances 
for bad and doubtful debts. This allowance has been determined by considering specific doubtful balances and by reference to past default
experience, an analysis of which is as follows. 
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
At 1 January 583 492
Amounts charged to admin expenses 692 453
Acquisitions 38 –
Trade receivables written off (487) (367)
Amounts recovered during the year 17 5
At 31 December 843 583
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value. Trade and other receivables are
predominantly non interest bearing. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s customer base
being large and unrelated and billed in advance. Due to this, the Directors believe there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the
allowance for bad and doubtful debts.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 55 56 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007
24. Trade and other payables
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Trade creditors 14,701 8,195
Other taxation and social security 3,226 2,541
Accruals and deferred income 37,733 25,728
Other creditors 2,007 890
Loan notes 907 642
58,574 37,996
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 31 days (2006 – 30 days). The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables
approximates to their fair value.
The loan notes are guaranteed against the loan note deposits of the same amount included within cash and cash equivalents. Interest accruing on
the deposit is payable to the holders of the loan notes less any costs arising.
Loan notes totalling £907,051 are outstanding as part of the initial and contingent consideration on the acquisition of HHCL Group Limited, Roose
Holdings Limited, and the initial consideration on the acquisition of The Corporate Citizenship Company Limited and the contingent consideration on
the acquisition of The Smart Company.Net Limited and De Facto Communications Limited.
Loan notes totalling £5.5 million were issued to senior employees of HHCL Group Limited in two instalments, the balance outstanding at 
31 December 2007 being £0.29 million (2006 – £0.29 million). The loan notes are repayable on giving 90 days’ notice by the loan note holder.
On 11 September 2007 loan notes totalling £0.5 million were issued to the original shareholders of The Corporate Citizenship Company Limited, 
the balance outstanding at 31 December 2007 being £0.5 million (2006 – £nil). The loan notes are not guaranteed by Royal Bank of Scotland plc. 
The loan notes are repayable at any time after one year from the date of issue.
Loan notes totalling £8.6 million were issued to the original shareholders of Roose Holdings Limited as part of the initial and contingent consideration.
The loan notes are repayable at anytime after one year from the date of issue. The balance outstanding at 31 December 2007 is £0.02 million 
(2006 – £0.05 million). 
Loan notes totalling £0.8 million (2006 – £0.4 million) were issued to the original shareholders of The Smart Company.Net Limited for the contingent
consideration. The loan notes are repayable at any time after six months from the date of issue. The loan notes are not guaranteed by Royal Bank 
of Scotland plc. The balance outstanding at 31 December 2007 is £0.02 million (2006 – £0.30 million). On 23 March 2007 additional loan notes of
£0.43 million were issued in relation to deferred consideration.
On 10 April 2007 Loan notes totalling £0.6 million were issued to the original shareholders of De Facto Communications Limited for the contingent
consideration, the balance outstanding at 31 December 2007 being £0.07 million (2006 – £nil). The loan notes are not guaranteed by Royal Bank of
Scotland plc. The loan notes are repayable at any time after six months from the date of issue.
Interest receivable on loan notes is in the range of 3.85% to 5.69%.
The loan notes are guaranteed by Royal Bank of Scotland plc, unless otherwise stated, who hold a deposit of £0.31 million against them.
The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit timeframe. 25. Obligations under finance leases
Minimum Present Minimum Present
lease value of lease lease value of lease 
payments payments payments payments
2007 2007 2006 2006
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Amounts payable under finance leases
Within one year 57 49 115 109
Between one and two years 42 42 44 43
Between two and three years 12 11 66
111 102 165 158
Less: future finance charges (9) – (7) –
102 102 158 158
Less: Amount due for settlement within 12 months (shown under current liabilities) (49) (109)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 53 49
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its motor vehicles, fixtures, fittings and equipment under finance leases. The lease term is three years. 
The finance lease bears interest at variable rate of 1.4% above base rate. 
All lease obligations are denominated in sterling.
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ charges over the leased assets.
26. Bank overdrafts and loans
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Bank loans 8,500 3,000
Cost of raising finance (125) (72)
8,375 2,928
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year – –
In the second year 8,375 –
In the third to fifth year – 2,928
8,375 2,928
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 8,375 2,928
All borrowings are in sterling.
Cash deposits and bank loans are held at either variable rates of interest or at rates fixed for periods of no longer than three months.
The principal features of the Group’s borrowings are as follows:
(i) The Group has a rolling overdraft facility of £2 million. The overdraft facility is repayable on demand.
(ii) The Group has a committed facility. The facility is currently £23 million, reducing to £19 million on 28 February 2009 and further reducing to
£15 million on 31 August 2009. The term of the facility is until 28 February 2010.
(iii) The bank loan and overdrafts bear interest at 1% above LIBOR.
(iv) A cross-guarantee exists between each of the subsidiaries and the parent company. Royal Bank of Scotland plc holds debentures over the
assets of the Company and its subsidiaries in respect of the bank loans.
(v) The weighted average interest rate applied in the period is 6.01% (2006 – 5.76%)
At 31 December 2007, the Group had available £14.5 million (2006 – £10 million) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all
conditions precedent had been met. 
The fair values of bank overdrafts and loans are determined by considering the maturity dates and market rates of interest. At 31 December 2007
there was no material difference between the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities and their book value. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 57 58 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007
27. Provisions
Deferred/ Deferred/
contingent contingent
consideration consideration Vacant
– shares – cash property Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2007 7,334 7,552 414 15,300
On acquisition of subsidiaries 7,019 4,782 – 11,801
Adjustment to prior year acquisitions 1,224 1,214 – 2,438
Discounting charge to the income statement 646 540 – 1,186
Change in payment method (143) 143 – –
Charged to the income statement – – 380 380
Payments made (931) (1,334) (99) (2,364)
At 31 December 2007 15,149 12,897 695 28,741
Included in current liabilities 7,880 8,155 300 16,335
Included in non-current liabilities 7,269 4,742 395 12,406
15,149 12,897 695 28,741
The vacant property provision remaining at 31 December 2007 relates to four buildings, one near Heathrow, one in Chelsea, one in London Bridge
and one in Farringdon. 
The Heathrow building is approximately 12,000 sq ft and the Group has a lease which runs to September 2016. The current rental cost is £350,000
per annum with upward only rent reviews due in September 2010 and 2015. The Group has sublet 7,000 sq ft, the remaining 5,000 sq ft is
occupied by Group companies. The rental income achieved on the sub-let space is lower than that rent currently being paid under the lease.
The Chelsea building is approximately 20,000 sq ft and the Group has a lease which runs to June 2015. The current rental cost is £566,000 per
annum with an upward rent review due in June 2010. The building is fully sub-let. The rent achieved is no less than that being paid under the lease.
The provision covers the unwinding of the rent free periods given to the tenants.
The London Bridge office is approximately 2,700 sq ft and the Group has a lease which runs to March 2009. The current rental cost is £68,000 per
annum. The office is currently vacant and provision has been made for the costs to the end of the lease. A provision of £180,000 was made in 2007.
The Farringdon property is approximately 9,800 sq ft and the Group has a lease that runs to September 2013. The current rental is £290,000 per
annum with an upward only rent review in September 2008. The Group currently has 4,500 sq ft sub-let. The Group is currently in negotiations with
potential tenants to sub-let the building. The rent achieved is expected to be no less than that being paid under the lease. A provision of £200,000
was made in 2007. The provisions are an estimate of the difference between the anticipated income and costs through to the end of the lease,
considering expected movements in the rental market.
Contingent consideration relates to acquisitions made in current and previous years. The amounts payable are dependent on the future profits of 
the companies acquired. Further details of the deferred considerations arising from current year acquisitions are shown in note 38.
The contingent consideration shares comprises shares to be issued in respect of acquisitions and has been shown as a liability in accordance with
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and Disclosure.
Details of contingent consideration shares to be issued and their basis are disclosed in note 38 other than those arising on the acquisition of VCCP
Limited as the contingent consideration is fully provided within the accounts. The number of shares to be issued in all instances is based on the
current market value prior to the issue of the shares.
The maximum contingent consideration payable on the purchase of VCCP Limited is £15,500,000 and this is fully provided for in the account (before
discounting). The contingent consideration is a multiple of 8 times profit before tax for the following periods: average of the three years 2005 to 2007
inclusive, 2008, 2009 and 2010. The contingent consideration would be satisfied 50% in loan notes and 50% by the issue of new shares. Chime has
the right to pay a higher percentage in cash if it so wishes. 28. Share capital
2007 Nominal value 2006 Nominal value
Number £’000 Number £’000
Authorised: at 1 January and 31 December ordinary at 5p each 764,071,396 38,204 764,071,396 38,204
Called up, allotted and fully paid at 1 January 253,684,688 12,684 253,080,569 12,654
Issues relating to contingent consideration De Facto Communications Limited 1,128,727 56 ––
Issues relating to the acquisition of Fast Track Sales Limited 10,000,000 500 ––
Issues relating to contingent consideration on The Smart Company.Net Limited 579,162 29 ––
Issues relating to contingent consideration on Baxter Hulme PR & Marketing Limited –– 602,941 30
Issued to staff under share options 982,685 50 1,178 –
Called up, allotted and fully paid at 31 December 266,375,262 13,319 253,684,688 12,684
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
On 28 September 2007, 579,162 shares were issued in respect of contingent consideration for The Smart Company.Net Limited. The fair value 
of these shares was £0.505 each. 
On 14 May 2007, 1,128,727 shares were issued in respect of contingent consideration for De Facto Communications Limited. The fair value of 
these shares was £0.5705 each.
On 1 May 2007, 10,000,000 shares were issued in respect of the initial consideration for Fast Track Sales Limited. The fair value of these shares 
was £0.50 each.
During the year shares were issued to staff at prices between £0.29 and £0.395.
29. Share premium account
Share
premium
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2007 26,594
Premium arising on issue of equity shares 5,623
Balance at 31 December 2007 32,217
30. Own shares
Own
shares
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2007 (5,968)
Disposed of on exercise of options 2,747
Purchase of own shares (1,160)
Balance at 31 December 2007 (4,381)
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Chime Communications plc purchased in the market and held by the The Chime
Communications Employee Trust to satisfy options under the Group’s share options schemes, deferred shares and co investment plan (see note 40).
The Chime Communications Employee Trust (“The Trust”) was established in 1997 in Jersey. The trustee is Mourant & Co. Trustees Limited. The
beneficiaries of the Trust are employees and former employees of the Company and the Group (including any director) and the spouses and children 
or stepchildren of such employees or former employees. The purpose of the Trust is to facilitate and encourage the ownership of shares by
employees. Distributions from the Trust are agreed by the trustee on recommendations from the Board of Directors of Chime Communications plc.
The Trust currently holds 5,510,667 ordinary shares which have a nominal value of £275,533 and over which options were granted in May 1998,
November 1998, April 1999, November 2000 and April 2003, deferred shares in May 2006 and July 2007 and Co Investment Plan shares in
September 2006 and March 2007. 2,170,212 (2006 – 1,247,000) shares were purchased in 2007 at a nominal value of £108,511. Cost associated
with these shares amounted to £10,013. All costs of the Trust are borne by Chime Communications plc and expensed through the income
statement. The Trust has opted to waive all dividends with the exception of those shares allocated under the deferred share scheme (see note 41).
The market value of the shares in the Trust at 31 December 2007 was £1,983,840 (2006 – £2,570,708).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 59 60 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007
31. Equity reserves
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2007 as previously reported 33,764
Reclassification of share based payment reserve to accumulated loss (1,379)
Balance at 1 January 2007 32,385
Balance at 31 December 2007 32,385
Capital reduction reserve relates to the capital reduction undertaken in October 2003. The reserve will not be treated as realised profits of the
Company until any debt or claim outstanding as at 1 July 2003 has been repaid or remedied. If on 1 July 2013 there remains only liabilities
outstanding in relation to property leases the amount outstanding to the reserve may be released and the undertaking discharged or replaced 
by new share issues.
In 2007 the share-based payment reserve had been moved from equity reserves to accumulated losses in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-
Based Payments. 
32. Translation reserves
2007
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2007 (245)
Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations 391
Balance at 31 December 2007 146
33. Accumulated loss
2007
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2007 (6,971)
Reclassification of share based payment reserve from equity reserves 1,379
Balance at 1 January 2007 (5,592)
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 8,617
Dividends paid (1,624)
Credit in relation to share-based payments 557
Revaluation of available for sale investment (23)
Loss on disposal of own shares held in treasury (2,547)
Balance at 31 December 2007 (612)
The share-based payments reserve arises from the cost of share-based payment transactions with employees, which is credited to equity in
accordance with IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments.
In 2007 the share-based payment reserve had been moved from equity reserves to accumulated losses as permitted under IFRS 2 Share-
Based Payments.  34. Reconciliation of equity attributable to equity holders of parent 
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Balance at 1 January as previously reported 59,858 53,471
Dividends paid (1,624) (1,243)
Buy back of warrants – (800)
Credit in relation to share-based payments 557 947
Purchase of own shares (1,160) (541)
Own shares disposed of on exercise of options 200 334
Total recognised income and expense for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 8,985 7,541
Increase in share capital 6,258 149
Balance at 31 December 73,074 59,858
35. Notes to the cash flow statement
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Operating profit 15,745 12,235
Adjustments for:
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operation (86) 29
Share-based payment expense 968 371
Translation differences 119 (76)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,403 1,026
Amortisation of other intangible assets 19 130
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 159 –
Loss/(gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 29 (1)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 281 (328)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 18,637 13,386
Increase in work in progress (840) (121)
Increase in receivables (8,027) (6,499)
Increase in payables 10,169 3,692
Cash generated by operations 19,939 10,458
Income taxes paid (3,869) (2,306)
Interest paid (870) (458)
Net cash from operating activities 15,200 7,694
Additions to fixtures and equipment during the year amounting to £nil and additions to motor vehicles during the year amounting to £17,757 were
financed by new finance leases (2006 – £44,389). 
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet) comprise cash at bank and other
short-term liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
Net cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year comprise bank balances of £6,652,000 (2006 – £6,997,000) and overdrafts of 
£nil (2006 – £nil).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 61 62 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007 
36. Disposal of associate
On 31 December 2007, the Group converted its 24% shareholding in Rare Publishing Limited into a 10% holding in PSP Holdings Limited. The
new shareholding is shown on the balance sheet at a cost of £350,000. The associate has been de-recognised resulting in a loss of £140,409
being taken to the income statement. As part of the transaction the deferred consideration due on the disposal of Rare Publishing Limited is no
longer due. The transaction had a nil cash flow impact.
37. Acquisition of subsidiary
Fast Track Sales Limited
On 30 April 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Fast Track Sales Limited. The fair value of the consideration given for the
acquisition was £24,726,046. An initial payment of £15,000,000 was satisfied on completion by £10,000,000 cash and £5,000,000 by the issue of
new ordinary shares. Costs relating to the acquisition amounted to £984,905, of which £979,098 had been paid in the year.
Contingent consideration of £25 million is dependent on the profitability of Fast Track Sales Limited for the six years to 31 December 2012. The
Group has provided for contingent consideration of £12,755,000 to date, this has been discounted to a net present value of £9,726,046, with the
resulting discounting charge of £3,028,954 to be taken through the income statement over the earnout period. 
The fair value of the net liabilities acquired was £1,384,263, resulting in goodwill of £27,095,214 which has been capitalised as an intangible fixed asset.
In the post acquisition period, Fast Track Sales Limited contributed £2,478,032 to the profit on ordinary activities before taxation and £6,972,839 
to revenue.
The goodwill calculation for the acquisition is as follows:
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustments value
Net assets acquired: £’000 £’000 £’000
Available for sale investments 250 – 250
Intangible assets – 864 864
Tangible assets 1,048 – 1,048
Trade and other receivables 2,633 – 2,633
Cash and cash equivalents 2,527 – 2,527
Trade and other payables (8,706) – (8,706)
(2,248) 864 (1,384)
Minority interest –
(1,384)
Goodwill 27,095
Total consideration 25,711
Satisfied by:
Cash 10,000
Shares allotted 5,000
Directly attributable costs 985
Deferred consideration 9,726
25,711
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition:
Cash consideration 10,979
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (2,527)
8,452
Goodwill arises from anticipated profitability and future operating synergies from the combination.
If the acquisition of Fast Track Sales Limited had been completed on the first day of the financial year it would have contributed £21,396,735 to
Group revenue and £1,268,405 to profit before tax attributable to equity holders of the parent. Facts International Limited
On 9 February 2007, the Group acquired 75% of the issued shared capital of Facts International Limited. The fair value of the consideration given
for the acquisition was £1,187,993. An initial payment of £850,000 was satisfied by cash on completion. Costs relating to the acquisition amounted
to £148,875, of which £143,875 had been paid in the year. 
Deferred consideration of £0.4 million is payable in equal instalments in February 2008 and February 2009. The Group has provided for deferred
consideration of £370,000 to date, this has been discounted to a net present value of £337,993, with the resulting discounting charge of £32,007
to be taken through the income statement. 
The fair value of the net assets acquired was £791,345, resulting in goodwill of £670,523 which has been capitalised as an intangible fixed asset.
In the post acquisition period, Facts International Limited contributed £185,915 to the profit on ordinary activities before taxation and £4,663,979 
to revenue.
The goodwill calculation for the acquisition is as follows:
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustments value
Net assets acquired: £’000 £’000 £’000
Tangible assets 24 – 24
Trade and other receivables 991 – 991
Cash and cash equivalents 187 – 187
Trade and other payables (410) – (410)
792 – 792
Minority interest (125)
667
Goodwill 670
Total consideration 1,337
Satisfied by:
Cash 850
Shares allotted –
Directly attributable costs 149
Deferred consideration 338
1,337
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition:
Cash consideration 994
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (187)
807
Goodwill arises from anticipated profitability and future operating synergies from the combination.
If the acquisition of Facts International Limited had been completed on the first day of the financial year it would have contributed £3,462,209 to
Group revenue and £6,599 to profit before tax attributable to equity holders of the parent.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 63 64 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007   
37. Acquisition of subsidiary (continued)
The Corporate Citizenship Company Limited
On 11 September 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the issued shared capital of The Corporate Citizenship Company Limited. The fair value of
the consideration given for the acquisition was £3,570,590. An initial payment of £1,955,966 was satisfied on completion by cash of £1,437,983
and loan notes issued of £517,983. Costs relating to the acquisition amounted to £172,514, of which £162,514 had been paid in the year. 
Contingent consideration of £4.2 million is dependent on the profitability of The Corporate Citizenship Company Limited for the five years to 
31 December 2011. The Group has provided for contingent consideration of £2,000,000 to date, this has been discounted to a net present 
value of £1,614,624, with the resulting discounting charge of £385,376 to be taken through the income statement over the earnout period. 
The fair value of the net assets acquired was £757,926, resulting in goodwill of £2,985,178 which has been capitalised as an intangible fixed asset.
In the post acquisition period, The Corporate Citizenship Company Limited contributed £27,032 to the profit on ordinary activities before taxation
and £812,675 to revenue.
The goodwill calculation for the acquisition is as follows:
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustments value
Net assets acquired: £’000 £’000 £’000
Tangible assets 7– 7
Trade and other receivables 328 – 328
Cash and cash equivalents 922 – 922
Trade and other payables (499) – (499)
758 – 758
Minority interest –
758
Goodwill 2,985
Total consideration 3,743
Satisfied by:
Cash 1,438
Unsecured loan notes 518
Directly attributable costs 172
Deferred consideration 1,615
3,743
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition:
Cash consideration 1,601
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (922)
679
Goodwill arises from anticipated profitability and future operating synergies from the combination.
If the acquisition of The Corporate Citizenship Company Limited had been completed on the first day of the financial year it would have contributed
£1,979,291 to Group revenue and £144,562 to profit before tax attributable to equity holders of the parent.
Stuart Higgins Communications Limited
On 10 December 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the issued shared capital of Stuart Higgins Communications Limited. The fair value of the
consideration given for the acquisition was £1,371,598. An initial payment of £1,250,000 was satisfied by cash on completion. Costs relating to 
the acquisition amounted to £100,557, of which £60,761 had been paid in the year. 
Contingent consideration of £1.75 million is dependent on the profitability of Stuart Higgins Communications Limited for the three years to 
31 December 2010. The Group has provided for contingent consideration of £150,000 to date, this has been discounted to a net present value 
of £121,598, with the resulting discounting charge of £28,402 to be taken through the income statement over the earnout period.  The fair value of the net liabilities acquired was £29,002, resulting in goodwill of £1,501,157 which has been capitalised as an intangible fixed asset.
In the post acquisition period, Stuart Higgins Communications Limited contributed £27,380 to the profit on ordinary activities before taxation and
£69,094 to revenue.
The goodwill calculation for the acquisition is as follows:
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustments value
Net assets acquired: £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade and other receivables 210 – 210
Cash and cash equivalents 99 – 99
Trade and other payables (338) – (338)
(29) – (29)
Minority interest –
(29)
Goodwill 1,501
Total consideration 1,472
Satisfied by:
Cash 1,250
Directly attributable costs 100
Deferred consideration 122
1,472
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition:
Cash consideration 1,311
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (99)
1,212
Goodwill arises from anticipated profitability and future operating synergies from the combination.
If the acquisition of Stuart Higgins Communications Limited had been completed on the first day of the financial year it would have contributed
£1,672,415 to Group revenue and £255,242 to profit before tax attributable to equity holders of the parent.
Fast Track Sports Media Consultancy Espana S.L.
On 30 June 2007, the Group acquired 52% of the issued shared capital of Fast Track Sports Media Consultancy Espana S.L. The fair value of the
consideration given for the acquisition was £200,000. An initial payment of £200,000 was satisfied by cash on completion. There were no costs
relating to the acquisition. 
The fair value of the net liabilities acquired was £7,312, resulting in goodwill of £207,312 which has been capitalised as an intangible fixed asset.
In the post acquisition period, Fast Track Sports Media Consultancy Espana S.L. contributed £160,377 to the profit on ordinary activities before
taxation and £833,955 to revenue.
Goodwill arises from anticipated profitability and future operating synergies from the combination.
If the acquisition of Fast Track Sports Media Consultancy Espana S.L. had been completed on the first day of the financial year it would have
contributed £1,178,450 to Group revenue and £83,648 to profit before tax attributable to equity holders of the parent.
Other deferred consideration of £2,264,175 was settled during the year in respect of acquisitions made in previous years by cash payments of
£253,930, £1,079,621 by the issue of non-cash backed loan notes and £930,624 by the issue of shares. £2,500 of cash paid in the year relates 
to costs in respect of prior year acquisitions. In addition £38,671 was paid to acquire an additional 15% of Gasoline Limited, on which £7,121
goodwill was recognised. The total payment in respect of the purchase of subsidiary undertakings was therefore £15,379,332. Cash acquired on
acquisition amounted to £3,842,981, therefore the net cash effect in respect of subsidiary undertakings was £11,536,543.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 65 66 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007   
38. Contingent liabilities and commitments
In addition to the potential deferred and contingent consideration as disclosed in note 27 of £28,046,000 at 31 December 2007 there was a
maximum financial commitment of £16,648,766 in respect of unprovided deferred contingent consideration payable in respect of acquisitions of
subsidiary undertakings. This relates to the acquisition of De Facto Communications Limited (£291,232) and Baxter Hulme PR and Marketing
(£306,500) in 2005, Fast Track Sales Limited (£12,245,000), The Corporate Citizenship Company Limited (£2,206,034) and Stuart Higgins
Communications Limited (£1,600,000). 
De Facto Communications Limited – The maximum contingent consideration payable is £1,816,180, however provision has only been made for
£1,524,948 in the accounts to date (before discounting). The contingent consideration is 60% of 5 or 6 times average profit after tax for 2007 and
2008, the higher multiple only being payable if the profit margin for both years exceeds 15%. The contingent consideration would be payable in cash.
Baxter Hulme PR and Marketing Limited – The maximum contingent consideration payable is £846,250, however provision has only been made for
£539,750 in the accounts to date (before discounting). The contingent consideration is a multiple of 4.1 times the average profits before tax for the
years 31 December 2006 to 31 December 2007. The contingent consideration would be satisfied 50% in cash and 50% by the issue of new
shares. Chime has the right to pay a higher percentage in cash if it so wishes.
Fast Track Sales Limited – The maximum contingent consideration payable is £25,000,000, however provision has only been made of £12,755,000
in the accounts to date (before discounting). The contingent consideration is a multiple of 7 times earnings before interest and tax the average
profits for the following periods: average of the three years 2007 to 2009 inclusive, and average of the three years 2010 to 2012 inclusive. The
contingent consideration would be satisfied by the issue of new shares until the amount of total consideration paid has been satisfied as to 50% 
in cash and 50% in new shares. Thereafter, the contingent consideration would be satisfied 50% in loan notes and 50% by the issue of new shares.
Chime has the right to pay a higher percentage in cash if it so wishes.
The Corporate Citizenship Company Limited – The maximum contingent consideration payable is £4,206,034, however provision has only been
made for £2,000,000 in the accounts to date (before discounting). The contingent consideration is a multiple of 4.75 times the average earnings
before interest and tax for the following periods: average of the three years 2007 to 2009 inclusive, and average of the two years 2010 to 2011
inclusive. The contingent consideration would be satisfied entirely in loan notes or cash.
Stuart Higgins Communications Limited – The maximum contingent consideration payable is £1,750,000, however provision has only been made
for £150,000 in the accounts to date (before discounting). The contingent consideration is a multiple of 4.5 times the average earnings before
interest and tax for the three years 2008 to 2010 inclusive. The contingent consideration would be satisfied 50% in cash and 50% by the issue 
of new shares. Chime has the right to pay a higher percentage in cash if it so wishes.
39. Operating lease arrangements
The Group as lessee
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense for the year 36,001 36,723
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases,
which fall due as follows:
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Within one year 109 –
In the second to fifth years inclusive 3,605 458
After five years 32,287 36,265
36,001 36,723
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for its office properties and for certain office equipment. 
The Group as lessor
At the balance sheet date, the Group had contracted with tenants for the following future minimum lease payments:
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Within one year 120 132
In the second to fifth years inclusive 2,034 1,867
After five years – 1,362
Property rental income earned during the year was £912,000 (2006 – £645,000). 40. Share-based payments
Equity-settled share option plan
The Group operates four share plans: an executive share option scheme, an employee savings related scheme, a deferred share scheme and a
Co-Investment Plan.
The exercise price of the options granted under the executive share option scheme is equal to the market value of the Company’s shares at the
time when the options are granted. The vesting period is generally three years but if they are special options it is five years. If the options remain
unexercised after a period of 10 years from the date of grant, the options expire. Furthermore, options are forfeited if the employee leaves the
Group before the options vest. All executive options granted from November 1997 (other than special executive options) are subject to
performance criteria as set out in the report to the shareholders on directors’ remuneration.
The exercise price of the options granted under the employee savings related scheme is 80% of the market value at the date of offer. The vesting
period is five years, if the options remain unexercised six months after this date, the options expire. Furthermore, the options are forfeited if the
employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
Under the deferred share scheme, restricted shares are awarded to employees at nil cost to the employee. The vesting period is three years from
the date of award. If the employee leaves the Group before vesting then the restricted shares are forfeited. The employee receives the dividend on
the shares during the vesting period.
The matching shares awarded under the Co-Investment Plan are awarded to employees at nil costs. The vesting period is either 3.5 years or 
4 years depending on when the award was made. If the employee leaves the Group before vesting then the matching shares are forfeited. If the
employee disposes of any of their committed shares then the matching shares awarded would be reduced accordingly retrospectively.
The matching shares awarded are subject to performance criteria as set out in the report to the shareholders on directors’ remuneration.
Share Options
2007 Weighted 2006 Weighted 
average exercise price average exercise price
Options (in £) Options (in £)
Outstanding at beginning of year 14,064,245 £0.445 16,834,620 £0.430
Granted during the year 799,898 £0.470 761,796 £0.335
Lapsed during the year (2,594,469) £0.474 (1,650,934) £0.447
Exercised during the year (2,274,077) £0.232 (1,881,274) £0.177
Outstanding at the end of the year 9,995,597 £0.494 14,064,208 £0.445
Exercisable at the end of the year 6,289,285 7,273,245
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was £0.2321 (2006 – £0.4031). The options
outstanding at 31 December 2007 had a weighted average exercise price of £0.494 (2006 – £0.445), and a weighted average remaining
contractual life of 1,853 days (2006 – 2,110 days). In 2007 options were granted on 23 May, the aggregate of the estimated fair values of the
options granted on that date is £84,334. In 2006 options were granted on 5 May, the aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options 
granted on those dates is £55,400.
The fair value was calculated using the Black-Scholes model (2006 – Black-Scholes).
In valuing the options, the following assumptions were used:
2007 2006
Weighted average share price £0.586 £0.415
Weighted average exercise price £0.470 £0.335
Expected volatility 33.58% 35%
Expected life – savings related scheme 5 years 5 years
Risk-free rate 5.5% 4.50%
Dividend yield 1.89% 1.89%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous two years. The expected life
used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and
behavioural considerations.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 67 68 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007   
40. Share-based payments (continued)
Deferred Shares
2007 2006
Deferred Deferred
Shares Shares
Outstanding at beginning of year 1,223,750 –
Awarded during the year 861,410 1,247,000
Lapsed during the year (51,500) (23,250)
Outstanding at the end of the year 2,033,660 1,223,750
The restricted shares were awarded on 13 July 2007, the share price at the date of award was £0.555 (2006 – £0.391). The remaining contractual
life is 685 days (2006 – 876 days). The estimated fair values of the restricted shares awarded is £370,459 (2006 – £426,167).
The fair value was calculated with reference to the share price at the date of award.
Co-Investment Plan
2007 2006
Matching Matching
Shares Shares
Outstanding at beginning of year 12,955,445 –
Granted during the year 1,660,000 12,955,445
Outstanding at the end of the year 14,615,445 12,955,445
The matching shares were awarded on 20 March 2007, the share price at the date of award was £0.485 (2006 – £0.38). The remaining contractual
life is 992 days. The estimated fair value of the matching shares granted is £391,618 (2006 – £2,256,958).
The fair value of the matching shares allocated to the market based performance criteria was calculated using the Monte Carlo model.
In valuing the shares, the following assumptions were used:
2007 2006
Weighted average share price £0.498 £0.379
Expected volatility 33.58% 32%
Expected life 3.5 years 4 years
Risk-free rate 5.02% 4.78%
Dividend yield n/a n/a
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous two years. 
The fair value of the matching shares allocated to the non-market based performance criteria was made with reference to the share price at 
the date of award discounted for expected dividends.
The Group recognised total expenses of £968,000 and £371,000 related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in 2007 and 
2006 respectively.
41. Retirement benefit schemes
The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme for the benefit of the majority of employees. This is an independently administered fund,
the assets of which are held separately from those of the Company. The amounts charged in this year and the prior year are disclosed in note 7. 42. Events after the balance sheet date
As a result of their rapid growth, VCCP have achieved their full earn-out in 2007. This will result in a payment of £15.5 million in late March/early
April 2008. Under the terms of the agreement this is payable 50% in Chime shares and 50% in cash, but Chime has the option to pay a greater
proportion or all in cash. Given the current level of the share price and in order to minimise dilution to shareholders, the Board is considering paying
a greater proportion in cash.
From 1 April 2008 the Corporation tax rate changes from 30% to 28%.
43. Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed 
in this note (details of subsidiaries are included in note 16). Transactions between the Group and its associates are disclosed below. Transactions
between the Company and its subsidiaries and associates are disclosed in the Company’s separate financial statements.
Trading transactions
During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group:
Amounts Amounts Amounts Amounts
owed by owed to owed by owed to
Sale of Purchase related related Sale of Purchase related related
services of services parties parties services of services parties parties
2007 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 2006
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Associates
Colour TV 67––– 115 – 201 –
Killa Communications –––– –3 – –
Meropa – – 374 – – – 374 –
Rare Corporate Design 112 300 91 50 ––––
Rare Publishing 3– 1– 19 29 18 35
X & Y Communications 41 – 49 – ––––
Youthtrends –––– 7–––
Sales of goods to related parties were made on an arms length basis.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received. No provisions have been made
for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories
specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Short-term employee benefits 2,508 2,454
Share-based payment 447 142
2,955 2,596
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 69 70 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007   
44. Financial Instruments
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, bank overdraft, finance leases, cash and short-term deposits. The main purpose
of the financial instruments is to provide finance for the Group’s operations. The Group has various other financial assets and liabilities such as
trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from operations. 
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk. The policy for managing
these risks is reviewed and agreed with the Board.
The Group uses financial instruments to manage its bank borrowings, this is done by the use of foreign exchange rate swaps. The Group does not
hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial trading purposes but derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as
trading instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value at the contract date and continue to be stated at fair value at
the balance sheet date with gains and losses on revaluation being recognised immediately to the income statement. 
Capital risk management: The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while
maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt,
which includes the borrowings discussed in note 26, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising
issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes 28 to 34.
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents 10,196 6,652
Bank loans (8,375) (2,928)
Finance leases (102) (158)
Loan notes outstanding (907) (642)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent (73,074) (59,858)
(72,262) (56,934)
Externally imposed capital requirement: Under the terms of the Group’s banking covenants the Group must meet certain criteria based on interest
and dividend cover and net debt to EBITDA. There have been no breaches of the banking covenants in the current or prior year.
Interest rate risk: The Group manages its interest rate risk by the use of fixed rate and variable rate financial debt. Fixed interest rates are for
periods of up to three months at a time. The interest rate margins paid by the Group on financial debt are disclosed in notes 25 and 26. Surplus 
cash deposits earn interest based on LIBID. If interest rates had been 1% higher during the period under review the impact to profit before tax
would have been a decrease of £93,260 (2006 – £50,856), conversely if interest rates had been 1% lower during the period under review the
impact to profit before tax would have been an increase of £92,450 (2006 – £50,330). The impact on shareholders equity would have been
£65,280 (2006 – £35,600) if interest rates had been worse by 1%, and £64,740 (2006 – £35,231) if interest rates had been better by 1%.
Liquidity risk: on 12 March 2007, the Group agreed to committed facilities of £23 million, reducing to £19 million on 28 February 2009 and a further
reduction to £15 million on 31 August 2009. The facility matures in February 2010. The is also an uncommitted facility available of £2 million, which
is reviewed on a rolling basis. At 31 December 2007 the Group had net cash of £818,000.
Maturity of borrowings: The maturity profile for the anticipated cash flows including interest in relation to the Group’s financial liabilities on an
undiscounted basis and which therefore differs from both fair value and carrying value is as follows.
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
£’000
On demand or within one year 565
In the second year 8,940
In the third to fifth year –
9,505 Foreign currency risk: management does not believe foreign currency risk to be material. The Group has one overseas associate, Meropa
Communications (Pty) Limited, which trades in South Africa. At 31 December 2007 the Group had a debtor relating to the partial disposal of its
shareholding in Meropa. This is payable in South African Rand and is valued at £80,842 which is payable within one year. No interest is payable 
on these loans. The Group had not entered into forward currency transactions with regards this loan. Fluctuations in the value of the South African
Rand against sterling would give rise to foreign exchange differences which would be taken through the profit and loss account. 
The Group has eight overseas subsidiaries which trade in Europe and America. At the net foreign currency monetary net assets were £627,000
(2006 – £1,475,281) in Europe and £218,992 (2006 – £497,493) in America.
The Group does on occasion agree to bill clients in a currency other than the local currency, it also makes some purchases overseas where the
supplier bills in their local currency. In some instances where it is viewed appropriate the proceeds from the client are kept in currency so as to
minimise the foreign exchange exposure on the transaction if there are third party costs to be paid out of the funds in that currency. In this instance
the Group uses short-term foreign exchange swaps to manage the Group’s borrowings. The fair value of the swaps entered into is estimated at
£28,821 (2006 – £(14,381)). There was one swap open over the year end. This amount is based on the market values of equivalent instruments at
the balance sheet date. 
Market price risk: the Group’s exposure to market price risk comprises interest rate risk and currency rate risk. The Group regularly monitors these
exposures which, setting aside the interrelationships between such rates and their wider impact on the economy, are not considered to have a
significant impact on the Group. 
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities: at 31 December 2007 there was no material difference between the fair value of financial
assets and financial liabilities and their book value. 
Credit risk: the group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk to be as follows:
2007 2006
£ £
Bank deposits 10,196 6,652
Trade receivables 35,691 25,430
Deferred consideration receivable 568 950
46,455 33,032
Further details of the ageing of trade receivables can be found in note 23 to the financial statements.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s customer base being large and unrelated.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 71 72 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007 
Independent auditors’ report to the members of 
Chime Communications plc
We have audited the parent company financial
statements of Chime Communications plc for
the year ended 31 December 2007 which
comprise the Company balance sheet and the
related notes 1 to 16. These parent company
financial statements have been prepared
under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the 
Group financial statements of Chime
Communications plc for the year ended 
31 December 2007 and on the information 
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is
described as having been audited. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s
members, as a body, in accordance with
section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our
audit work has been undertaken so that we
might state to the Company’s members those
matters we are required to state to them in an
auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To
the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not
accept or assume responsibility to anyone
other than the Company and the Company’s
members as a body, for our audit work, for
this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors 
and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing 
the Annual Report and the parent company
financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) 
are set out in the Statement of Directors’
Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent
company financial statements in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements
and International Standards on Auditing (UK
and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether
the parent company financial statements give
a true and fair view and whether the parent
company financial statements have been
properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985. We also report to you
whether in our opinion the Directors’ Report is
consistent with the parent company financial
statements. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion,
the Company has not kept proper accounting
records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for
our audit, or if information specified by law
regarding directors’ remuneration and other
transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the
Annual Report as described in the contents
section and consider whether it is consistent
with the audited parent company financial
statements. We consider the implications for
our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the parent company
financial statements. Our responsibilities do
not extend to any further information outside
the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices
Board. An audit includes examination, on a
test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the parent company
financial statements. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and
judgments made by the directors in the
preparation of the parent company financial
statements, and of whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the Company’s
circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to
obtain all the information and explanations
which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give
reasonable assurance that the parent
company financial statements are free from
material misstatement, whether caused by
fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming
our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information in
the parent company financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the parent company financial statements
give a true and fair view, in accordance 
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice, of the state of the
Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2007;
• the parent company financial statements
have been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985; and
• the information given in the Directors’
Report is consistent with the parent
company financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chartered Accountants and 
Registered Auditors
London
10 March 2008 Company balance sheet
Year ended 31 December 2007
73
2007 2007 2006 2006
Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Fixed assets
Investment in subsidiaries 4 120,293 84,558
Other investments 5 350 –
120,643 84,558
Current assets
Debtors 7 7,539 10,694
Short-term investments 8 313 343
Cash at bank and in hand 2,947 5,085
10,799 16,122
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 9 (10,008) (2,455)
Net current assets 791 13,667
Total assets less current liabilities 121,434 98,225
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 10 (13,117) (9,396)
Net assets 108,317 88,829
Capital and reserves
Share capital 12 13,319 12,684
Share premium account 12 32,217 26,594
Share-based payment reserve 13 1,771 803
Merger reserve 13 3,780 3,780
Shares to be issued 13 15,149 7,337
Capital reduction reserve 13 32,385 32,385
ESOP reserve 13,16 (4,381) (5,968)
Retained earnings 13 14,077 11,214
Equity shareholders’ funds 108,317 88,829
The financial statements were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on 10 March 2008. They were signed on its behalf by:
Mark Smith, Director 74 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007  
Notes to the Company financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2007
1. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The separate financial statements of the Company are drawn up in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and UK generally accepted
accounting principles (“UK GAAP”). The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could
differ from those estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are
recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if
the revision affects both current and future periods.
The particular accounting policies adopted are described below. They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the prior year. 
Cash flow
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 1 “Cash flow statements” and has not produced a cash flow statement.
Financial instruments
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 29 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures” and has not produced any
disclosures required by that standard, as full FRS 29 disclosures are available in Chime Communications Plc Annual Report for the year ended 
31 December 2007.
Related parties 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 “Related party disclosures” and has not reported transactions with fellow
Group undertakings.
Accounting convention
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention.
Investments
In the Company’s accounts, investments in subsidiary and associate undertakings are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
Deferred consideration
When earnouts are to be settled in cash or shares with a fixed monetary value, the fair value of the consideration is obtained by discounting 
to present value the amounts expected to be payable in the future. The resulting interest charge is included within finance costs of 
deferred consideration.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities, in respect of financial instruments, are recognised on the balance sheet when the Company becomes 
a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Company are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements
entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual 
interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities and includes no obligation to deliver cash or other financial assets. 
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. 
Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of equity settled share-based compensation plans for the employees of subsidiary undertakings, using the
Company’s equity instruments. The fair value of the compensation given in respect of these share-based compensation plans is recognised as 
a capital contribution to the Company’s subsidiary undertakings, over the vesting period. The capital contribution is reduced by any payments
received from subsidiary undertakings in respect of these share-based payments. 
Dividends paid or received
Dividends paid and received are included in the financial statements in the period in which the related dividends are actually paid or received or, 
in respect of the Company’s final dividend for the year, approved by shareholders.
2. Profit of parent company
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss account of the parent company is not presented as part of these
accounts. The parent company’s profit for the financial year amounted to £6,971,000 (2006 – £855,090).
3. Equity dividends
The equity dividends paid from the Company are disclosed in note 11 of the consolidated financial statements. 75
4. Investments
Investments in
and loans to Equity
associated interest in
undertakings subsidiaries Total
The Company £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2007 294 84,264 84,558
Additions – 32,758 32,758
Adjustment to prior year acquisitions – 2,438 2,438
Transfer of investment –– –
Loans to associated undertakings 54 – 54
Share-based payment – 968 968
Reduction of carrying value – (483) (483)
Foreign exchange –– –
Disposals –– –
At 31 December 2007 348 119,945 120,293
5. Other investments 
Other investments comprise unlisted equity investment in PSP Holdings Ltd. This has been recorded at cost, less any provision for impairment, 
as its fair value cannot be reliably measured as there is no active market.
6. Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
The Company’s principal trading subsidiaries and associated undertakings, which are all incorporated in Great Britain (except where noted) are
listed in note 16 of the consolidated financial statements.
7. Debtors
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Prepayments and accrued income 39 23
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 7,403 10,196
Other debtors 97 93
Amounts due from disposal of businesses – 382
7,539 10,694
Due within one year 7,539 10,312
Due after more than one year – 382
7,539 10,694
Amounts due from the disposal of businesses relate to Rare Publishing Limited. 
8. Short-term investments
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Loan note cash deposit 313 343
The loan note cash deposit of £0.3 million (2006 – £0.3 million) relates to a cash deposit held on three months’ notice at Royal Bank of Scotland
plc. The deposit guarantees £0.3 million (2006 – £0.3 million) of the loan note creditors of £0.9 million (2006 – £0.6 million). Interest accruing on 
the deposit is payable to the holders of the loan notes less any costs arising (see note 24 of the consolidated financial statements). 76 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007 
9. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Deferred/contingent consideration 8,155 1,100
Loan notes 907 642
Current taxation 233 191
Other taxation and social security costs 7 1
Other creditors 3 3
Accruals and deferred income 703 518
10,008 2,455
10. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Deferred/contingent consideration 4,742 6,468
Bank loans 8,375 2,928
13,117 9,396
Due in more than one year but not more than two years 8,547 5,757
Due in more than two years but not more than five years 4,570 3,639
13,117 9,396
No interest attaches to the deferred consideration, which is payable in sterling and euros.
11. Borrowings
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Bank loans 8,375 2,928
Loan notes 907 642
9,282 3,570
Due within one year or on demand 907 642
Due in more than one year but not more than two years 8,375 –
Due in three to five years – 2,928
9,282 3,570
Maturity analysis
Bank overdraft/loans 
Within one year or on demand – –
Between one and two years 8,375 –
Between two and five years – 2,928
Loan notes
Within one year or on demand 907 642
9,282 3,570
12. Share capital and share premium account
The movements on these items are disclosed in notes 28 and 29 to the consolidated financial statements. Notes to the Company financial statements 77
13. Statements of movements on reserves
Share-based Capital Profit
payment Merger Shares reduction ESOP and loss
reserve reserve to be issued reserve reserve account
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 1 January 2007 803 3,780 7,337 32,385 (5,968) 11,214
Retained profit for the year ––––– 6,971
Dividend payable ––––– (1,561)
Adjustment on prior year acquisitions –– 543–––
Acquisition of Fast Track Sales Limited – – 7,208–––
Acquisition of Stuart Higgins Communications Limited –– 61–––
Capital contribution given relating to share-based payments 968–––––
(Purchase)/Disposal of own equity shares held in treasury –––– 1,587 (2,547)
Balance at 31 December 2007 1,771 3,780 15,149 32,385 (4,381) 14,077
14. Contingent liabilities and commitments
In addition to the potential deferred and contingent consideration as shown in notes 9, 10 and 13 of £28,046,000 at 31 December 2007 there 
was a maximum financial commitment of £16,648,766 in respect of unprovided capital expenditure. This relates to the acquisition of De Facto
Communications Limited (£291,232) and Baxter Hulme PR and Marketing (£306,500) in 2005, Fast Track Sales Limited (£12,245,000), 
The Corporate Citizenship Company Limited (£2,206,034) and Stuart Higgins Communications Limited (£1,600,000). 
De Facto Communications Limited – The maximum contingent consideration payable is £1,816,180, however provision has only been made for
£1,524,948 in the accounts to date (before discounting). The contingent consideration is 60% of 5 or 6 times average profit after tax for 2007 and
2008, the higher multiple only being payable if the profit margin for both years exceeds 15%. The contingent consideration would be payable in cash.
Baxter Hulme PR and Marketing Limited – The maximum contingent consideration payable is £846,250, however provision has only been made for
£539,750 in the accounts to date (before discounting). The contingent consideration is a multiple of 4.1 times the average profits before tax for the
years 31 December 2006 to 31 December 2007. The contingent consideration would be satisfied 50% in cash and 50% by the issue of new
shares. Chime has the right to pay a higher percentage in cash if it so wishes.
Fast Track Sales Limited – The maximum contingent consideration payable is £25,000,000, however provision has only been made of £12,755,000
in the accounts to date (before discounting). The contingent consideration is a multiple of 7 times earnings before interest and tax the average
profits for the following periods: average of the three years 2007 to 2009 inclusive, and average of the three years 2010 to 2012 inclusive. 
The contingent consideration would be satisfied by the issue of new shares until the amount of total consideration paid has been satisfied as 
to 50% in cash and 50% in new shares. Thereafter, the contingent consideration would be satisfied 50% in loan notes and 50% by the issue of
new shares. Chime has the right to pay a higher percentage in cash if it so wishes.
The Corporate Citizenship Company Limited – The maximum contingent consideration payable is £4,206,034, however provision has only been
made for £2,000,000 in the accounts to date (before discounting). The contingent consideration is a multiple of 4.75 times the average earnings
before interest and tax for the following periods: average of the three years 2007 to 2009 inclusive, and average of the two years 2010 to 2011
inclusive. The contingent consideration would be satisfied entirely in loan notes or cash.
Stuart Higgins Communications Limited –The maximum contingent consideration payable is £1,750,000, however provision has only been made
for £150,000 in the accounts to date (before discounting). The contingent consideration is a multiple of 4.5 times the average earnings before
interest and tax for the three years 2008 to 2010 inclusive. The contingent consideration would be satisfied 50% in cash and 50% by the issue 
of new shares. Chime has the right to pay a higher percentage in cash if it so wishes.
15. Share-based payments
The Company currently uses a number of equity settled share plans to grant options and shares to the directors and employees of its subsidiary
undertakings. As at 31 December 2007, the Company had 9,995,597 ordinary share options outstanding (2006: 14,064,208). 
The Company has made a capital contribution to its subsidiary undertakings in relation to share based payments. At 31 December 2007, the
cumulative capital contribution net of payments received from subsidiary undertakings was £1.8 million (31 December 2006: £0.8 million). 
During the year ended 31 December 2007, the capital contribution arising from share-based payments was £1.0 million (2006: 0.8 million).
The Company does not incur a profit and loss account charge in relation to share-based payments.
Full details of share-based payments, share option schemes and share plans are disclosed in note 40 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of
Chime Communication Plc.
16. Own shares
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Chime Communications Plc purchased in the market and held by The Chime
Communications Employee Trust to satisfy options under the Group’s share options schemes, deferred shares and the Co-Investment Plan. 
Further details are disclosed in note 30 of the Group accounts. 78 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007   
FINANCIAL CALENDAR Wednesday 14 May 2008 Annual General Meeting 12 noon
14 Curzon Street, London W1J 5HN
Interim Management Statement
Wednesday 28 May 2008 Ex-Dividend Date 2007 Final Dividend
Friday 30 May 2008 Record Date 2007 Final Dividend
Friday 20 June 2008 Payment of 2007 Final Dividend
Wednesday 27 August 2008 Announcement of 2008 Interim Results
Wednesday 24 September 2008 Ex-Dividend Date 2008 Interim Dividend
Friday 26 September 2008 Record Date 2008 Interim Dividend
Wednesday 15 October 2008 Payment of 2008 Interim Dividend
SHARE PRICE Share price at 31 December 2007 36 pence
High during the year (17 April 2007) 59.5 pence
Low during the year (6 December 2007) 32.5 pence
BALANCE ANALYSIS SUMMARY
Number of Number of Balance as at 
holdings holdings 31 December 
Range Individuals Corporate bodies 2007 %
1 – 1,000 147 29 120,681 0.05
1,001 – 10,000 165 54 980,032 0.37
10,001 – 100,000 111 75 6,007,408 2.26
100,001 – 1,000,000 33 62 35,620,438 13.37
1,000,001 – 10,000,000 13 35 138,064,650 51.83
10,000,001 – to highest 0 3 85,581,993 32.13
Total 469 258 266,375,202 100.00
Information for shareholders Information for shareholders 79
CONTACT DETAILS Chime Communications plc
14 Curzon Street
London W1J 5HN
www.chime.plc.uk
Lord Bell – Chairman
lord.bell@chime.plc.uk
Christopher Satterthwaite – 
Group Chief Executive
csatterthwaite@chime.plc.uk
Mark Smith – Group Finance Director
msmith@chime.plc.uk
Robert Davison – Company Secretary
rdavison@chime.plc.uk
PROFESSIONAL ADVISERS FINANCIAL ADVISERS AND 
STOCKBROKERS
Numis Securities Limited
Cheapside House
138 Cheapside
London EC2V 6LH
AUDITORS
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chartered Accountants
London 
United Kingdom
SOLICITORS
Slaughter & May
One Bunhill Row
London EC1Y 8YY
BANKERS
Royal Bank of Scotland plc
280 Bishopsgate
London EC2M 4RB
REGISTRARS
Computershare Investor Services plc
Registrar’s Department
PO Box 82
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol
BS99 7NH
web.queries@computershare.co.uk
Tel: 0870 889 3278
www.computershare.com
REGISTERED OFFICE
14 Curzon Street
London W1J 5HN
Registered in England No: 1983857 80 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report 2007   
Chime and the Environment
Like every other business, we use
resources and produce waste, but in terms
of actual environmental impact, our
emissions are not that significant. Where
we can and do have an impact is through
the messages we give about ourselves,
and through our work helping clients to
communicate their values and reputation.
We believe that everyone has a
responsibility for addressing climate
change; as a communications group, we
have a particular responsibility in enabling
environmental messages to be heard. 
The starting point for that, of course, is
with our own actions.
During 2007 our emissions reduction
campaign was run via our team of Climate
Change Champions, each representing a
brand or business within Chime. This team
has been driving forward the process of the
Group becoming carbon neutral from
January 2007, collecting the data required
for establishing our initial footprint and
coordinating the various initiatives targeting
emissions reductions.
In February 2008 the Climate Change
Champions won the “Climate Change
Leader” prize at the Chime Cymbal Awards
which celebrates excellence within the
Group.
In 2007 we targeted an emissions
reduction of 30% for our first year. We also
acknowledged that the changes required
would take time and, if to be lasting,
should not be rushed. However, our staff
have embraced the concept of working
greener can mean working smarter and by
the year end delivered a saving of 37%. 
This was achieved by a number of small
infrastructure changes; by taking the
initiative to our existing supply chain and
by the behavioural changes made by staff
in adopting more recycling and using less
power and alternative office materials etc.
Supply Chain
Our supply partners have been willing
partners in this project, providing data
capture systems for establishing our
footprint and actively working with us to
deliver improved environmental
performance on both sides. We have learnt
from each other and we are pleased they
acknowledge that their participation will be
mutually beneficial but more importantly to
the environment.
Carbon Offsetting
At the end of 2006 we established our
carbon footprint at 3100 tonnes of CO2.
However, in assessing our offset
requirements we factored in our potential
growth, both organic and by acquisition.
We offset 4200 tonnes CO2 as a result. 
For 2008 we have purchased a further
2200 tonnes of offset.
Offset Projects
As carbon neutrality is a staff led project
within Chime we poll our workforce in order
to select appropriate projects for our
carbon offset.
In 2008 the Group invested in three
projects:
1. Kotmar Waste Heat Recovery, India
This project recycles heat produced 
as a by-product of a steel plant, using 
it to produce electricity which is
subsequently fed into the local grid.
2. Rhine-Ruhr Gas Power, Germany
This project captures methane gas from
three abandoned coal mines. Methane 
is 21 times more potent than CO2 as 
a greenhouse gas.
3. Selco Solar Waste Heating Systems,
India
This project installs systems in rural
communities in Karnataka, India.
Our projects in India recognise it as one of
the fastest growing economies and
supports sustainable development; the
Rhine-Ruhr project provides a solution to a
major natural source of greenhouse gases
in Europe and, following on from our
support of the Selco solar lighting project
in 2007, the water heating project delivers
additional benefits to local communities,
raising standards of living and health in
rural India.
Emissions Reductions
We wish to continue to account for, and
offset the full impact of our operations. 
We have been comprehensive in our data
collection to establish our footprint and
have included areas such as staff
commuting and deliveries. In 2007 we
purchased sufficient offset to cover our
forecast growth. Geographically our spread
of operations now extends to the Middle
East and to Spain and an additional office
in the USA; our operations now encompass
our acquisitions; Facts, Fast Track and
Corporate Citizenship. These changes will
provide further focus for our efforts for 2008.
We have set a conservative emissions
reduction target for 2008 of 5%. This is
within our reach and will provide an
achievable goal for our already engaged
staff. We will continue to report on our
progress through our financial statements,
corporate responsibility reports and via our
website www.chime.plc.uk
Chris Satterthwaite
Group Chief Executive Designed and produced by Rare Corporate Design
www.rarecorporate.co.uk
This Annual Report is printed on Zanders Mega Matt. This paper is sourced from
FSC/PEFC accredited forests, is totally chlorine free, has recycled fibre (50%), 
is suitable for archival storage and qualifies for the Nordic Swan environmental label.
The Chime Group helps clients create, manage,
monitor and market their businesses, brands and
reputations both in the UK and internationally.
Chime is the holding company for the UK’s leading    
public relations group, Bell Pottinger; the UK’s leading
research and engagement group, Opinion Leader; 
and one of the fastest growing advertising and 
marketing services groups in the UK, that includes
VCCP, Teamspirit, TTA and Fast Track.
Contents 
Financial highlights 01
Chairman’s statement 02
Chief Executive’s review 06
Public Relations Division 08
Advertising and Marketing 
Services Division 10
Research and Engagement Division 12
Finance Director’s review 14
Board of Directors 16
Executive management team 18
Directors’ statement on corporate 
governance 20
Directors’ remuneration report 24
Directors’ report 30
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 31
Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of Chime Communications plc 32
Consolidated income statement 33
Consolidated statement of recognised 
income and expense 34
Consolidated balance sheet 35
Consolidated cash flow statement 36
Notes to the consolidated financial 
statements 37
Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of Chime Communications plc 72
Company balance sheet 73
Notes to the Company financial statements 74
Information for shareholders 78
Chime and the environment 80 Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Public Relations      Advertising and Marketing Services      Research and Engagement
Reputation is governed by
what you say, what you do and 
what people say about you.
Our reputation is made by what 
we do for our clients.
Chime Communications plc
14 Curzon Street, London W1J 5HN
Tel: 020 7861 8515
E-mail: enquiries@chime.plc.uk
www.chime.plc.uk
CHIME COMMUNICATIONS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007
