 CHIME COMMUNICATIONS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007
“There is a global conversation going on about business, 
which is affecting everyone’s reputation. If you don’t take 
part in it, your reputation will suffer”. Lord Bell.
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Public Relations      Advertising and Marketing Services      Research and Engagement
Chime Communications plc
14 Curzon Street, London W1J 5HN
Tel: 020 7861 8515
E-mail: enquiries@chime.plc.uk
www.chime.plc.uk
CHIME COMMUNICATIONS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Designed and produced by Rare Corporate Design
www.rarecorporate.co.uk
This Annual Report is printed on Zanders Mega Matt. This paper is sourced from
FSC/PEFC accredited forests, is totally chlorine free, has recycled fibre (50%),
is suitable for archival storage and qualifies for the Nordic Swan environmental label.
The Chime Group helps clients create,
manage, monitor and market their
businesses, brands and reputations
both in the UK and internationally.
Chime is the holding company for the UK’s
leading public relations group, Bell Pottinger;
the UK’s leading research and engagement
group, Opinion Leader; and one of the fastest
growing advertising and marketing services
groups in the UK, that includes VCCP,
Teamspirit and Fast Track.
Contents
Financial highlights 01
Chairman’s statement 02
Chief Executive’s review 04
Public Relations Division 06
Advertising and Marketing
Services Division 16
Research and Engagement Division 26
Finance Director’s review 30
Board of Directors 32
Executive management team 34
Directors’ statement on corporate
governance 36
Directors’ remuneration report 40
Directors’ report 46
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 48
Independent auditors’ report to the
members of Chime Communications plc 49
Consolidated income statement 50
Consolidated statement of recognised
income and expense 51
Consolidated balance sheet 52
Consolidated cash flow statement 53
Notes to the consolidated financial
statements 54
Independent auditors’ report to the
members of Chime Communications plc 88
Company balance sheet 89
Notes to the Company financial statements 90
Information for shareholders 95 Financial highlights
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
1
Operating income
(2007: £96.5m)
£112.1m
+16%
Profit before tax
(2007: £13.8m)
£16.3m
+19%
Operating profit
(2007: £15.7m)
£18.1m
+15%
Final dividend (per share)
(2007: 2.40p)
4.72p
+35%
Margin
(2007: 16.3%)
16.2%
Earnings per share
(2007: 17.15p)
19.87p
+16%
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Operating income (£m)
53.6
63.0
77.9
96.5
112.1
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Operating profit (£m)
7.3
8.3
12.2
15.7
18.1
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Earnings per share (p)
19.87
17.15
15.40
12.45
11.05
• Operating income up 16%
to £112.1 million
(2007: £96.5 million)
– Organic growth of 9%
• Operating profit up 15%
to £18.1 million
(2007: £15.7 million)
– Organic growth of 10%
• Margin of 16.2%
(2007: 16.3%)
• Profit before tax up 19%
to £16.3 million
(2007: £13.8 million)
• Earnings per share from continuing
operations up 16% to 19.87p
(2007: 17.15p)
• Total dividend of 4.72p per share
(2007: 2.40p), an increase of 35%
Total for 2008 of 4.72p per share
(2007: 3.50p), an increase of 35%
• Net cash at 31 December 2008 of
£6.3 million (2007: £0.80 million) Review of operations
Overall the Group has continued to perform well. The Group
acted for 1,381 clients in 2008 compared with 1,379 in 2007.
Of these clients, 256 used more than one of our businesses
(236 in 2007), which represented 66% of total operating
income (2007 – 62%).
In 2008, 170 clients paid us over £100,000, compared with
164 in 2007. Our top 30 clients represented 48% of total
operating income (2007 – 45%).
Our two largest clients represented 18.4% of our operating
income. Both clients have been retained since 2003, are high
margin and have normal renewal terms. No other client
represented more than 3% of our operating income.
Average fee income per client in 2008 was £81,000
compared with £70,000 in 2007. Average income per
employee was £111,000 in 2008 compared with £105,000
in 2007. In 2008, 37% of our income came from overseas
work compared with 34% in 2007.
Bell Pottinger retained its position as No. 1 in the PR Week
League Table, Fast Track remains No. 1 in the Marketing
Sponsorship League Table and VCCP won the Marketing
Week Effectiveness Award for the launch of the O2 arena.
Divisional performance
Trading conditions deteriorated in the second half of 2008
for some of our businesses, whilst others performed ahead
of our expectations. The Public Relations Division was
ahead of budget for 2008, whilst the Advertising and
Marketing Services and Research Divisions were
behind budget.
Public Relations continues to be our largest division, being
55% of operating income (2007 – 56%), Advertising and
Marketing Services was 39% (2007 – 36%) and Research
6% (2007 – 8%).
Public Relations – Bell Pottinger Group including
Good Relations, Harvard and Insight
The Public Relations Division had an extremely good year
with a particularly strong second half. Costs were very
carefully controlled and the 13% increase in operating
income has therefore resulted in a 30% increase in operating
profit. Our geopolitical, brand, technology and Middle East
businesses all performed ahead of our expectations.
Advertising and Marketing Services – VCCP Group,
Fast Track and Teamspirit
Our Advertising and Marketing Services Division had a flat
year with the first half better than the second half. Our sports
marketing, direct marketing, digital, search and brand identity
businesses all performed ahead of 2007.
Research – The Research and Engagement Group
The Research and Engagement Division was budgeted to
improve in the second half of 2008 following the restructuring
we did in the first half. However, due to postponed and
cancelled projects their performance continued to
deteriorate. We still have confidence in the restructuring
we have done and the first quarter of 2009 is looking
encouraging with a healthy new business pipeline.
In addition the launch of Caucus World, our new
digital platform, was delayed due to hold-ups
in software development.
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Chairman’s statement
2
Chairman’s
statement
“2008 has been a very
successful year of double
digit growth, although the
outlook for 2009 is uncertain.
So far the impact on
businesses affected by the
economic downturn has
been offset by growth in
other businesses”. Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
3
Chairman’s statement
Summary of results
2008 2007 %
£m £m change
Actual
Operating income 112.1 96.5 +16%
Operating profit 18.1 15.7 +15%
Operating profit margin 16.2% 16.3%
Organic
1
Operating income 94.7 86.6 +9%
Operating profit 15.3 13.8 +10%
1 Excluding acquisitions in 2007 and 2008
Public Relations Division
2008 2007 %
£m £m change
Operating income 61.3 54.1 +13%
Operating profit 12.1 9.3 +30%
Operating profit margin 19.7% 17.3%
Advertising and Marketing Services Division
2008 2007 %
£m £m change
Operating income 43.8 34.7 +26%
Operating profit 6.2 5.6 +11%
Operating profit margin 14.1% 16.0%
Research and Engagement Division
2008 2007 %
£m £m change
Operating income 7.0 7.7 -10%
Operating profit 0.4 1.4 -73%
Operating profit margin 5.4% 18.1%
New business wins in 2008 included:
Corporate responsibility
The Group continues to be carbon neutral and has targeted
to reduce its carbon emissions by a further 5% in 2008
(2007 – 37%). The Group received a ‘Big Tick’ award from
Business in the Community for its work on addressing
climate change.
Board changes
On 2 July 2008 The Hon Richard Alston joined the Board.
He previously served as Australian High Commissioner to the
United Kingdom from February 2005 until March 2008, after
a distinguished career in the Australian Parliament as Minister
for Communications, Information, Technology and Arts from
1996 to 2003.
On 16 December 2008 David Allen resigned from the Board
and we thank him for his contribution over several years.
Outlook
We had an excellent 2008 based on our diversified Group,
with particularly strong performances from Public Relations
(Bell Pottinger Group) and Sports Marketing (Fast Track).
The company’s strategy for 2009 is to control costs,
generate cash and focus on new business. We are
concentrating on the growth opportunities we have,
which are mainly in international, sports marketing,
digital, geopolitical and public sector work.
So far the impact on businesses affected by the economic
downturn has been offset by growth in other businesses.
Lord Bell
Chairman
11th March 2009 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Chief Executive’s review
4
A time for trust
The credit crunch has triggered
a global conversation about
business. Governments are
taking part; the media has a
leading role; the internet is alive
with comment and criticism;
regulators are actively engaged;
public policy groups are
contributing and customers of
all types of businesses are vocal
in their opinions about what has
gone wrong and what needs
to be put right.
If you are not taking part in this global debate, it’s unlikely
that you can become part of the solution. Never have the
reputations of governments, public bodies, businesses,
brands and NGOs depended more on communications.
Across the Chime Group, we are working with our clients
in each of these sectors and trying to help them have
a constructive voice in the debate. If you don’t take part,
you risk your reputation. If you do take part, you need
to have clarity on where you stand, what you do and
what your overall point of view is.
So despite the uncertain economic conditions we find
ourselves in, the need for communication has never been
greater. If you add to this need the continuing explosion
of communication options available for our clients – even
politicians are Twittering – the need for modern
communications is clear.
A recent research study by Opinion Leader examines the
declining degree of trust that people have in all organisations.
Being seen to push vested interests or demonstrating
incompetence undermines trust; understanding customer
needs and addressing them in what a business says and
does, help to build it. Helping our clients to maintain a trusted
voice in the ongoing debate is where we come in.
Trusted organisations are those that can demonstrate that
they walk in their customers’ footsteps. They are confident
about being transparent in what they say and in how they
handle disagreements or criticism. They understand that
communication is as much about listening as persuading.
They embrace the information age by having a 24/7
approach to communication, whether answering the
demands of the media or taking part in social networks.
This Annual Report demonstrates how companies that can
help to build this trust continue to add value to clients despite
the difficult economic climate. Throughout our divisional
reviews you’ll find a number of themes that help to explain
the resilience of our companies’ performance: diversified
business models; healthy exposure to public sector work
in PR and advertising; leading expertise in Corporate
Responsibility (CR), where demand is being driven by the
regulatory environment; strong growth in international
business. The progress of our Middle East business and
finally progress in sports marketing which is becoming a
critical aspect of major clients communications. I would
argue, though, that the most important factor is the quality
of the work across all of our divisions, a reputation for
innovative and effective solutions, and a proven track
record for building trust and reputation.
“Never have the reputations
of governments, public
bodies, businesses, brands
and NGOs depended more
on communications.” Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
5
Chief Executive’s review
“Companies that can help
to build this trust continue
to add value to clients
despite the difficult
economic climate.”
• Representing Rupiah Banda in the Zambian Presidential
Election; he won
• Mubadala’s sponsorship of Ferrari
• The Lysander Gatwick Investment Group bid for London
Gatwick Airport
• The Food Standards Agency advertising campaign for
saturated fats
• Emirates’ sponsorship of the Rugby Sevens World Cup
• The new advertising campaign for
‘Comparethemarket.com’
• The launch of the Department of Health’s new Hepatitis
C awareness campaign
• The launch of the report on the future of the luxury
industry commissioned by De Beers
• BT’s sponsorship of the Paralympic World Cup
• The study into the Future of Financial Advice and
Distribution on behalf of Aegon
• Entry into service of the largest fleet of the world’s
biggest aircraft – the Airbus A380 superjumbo for
Emirates Airline
Some of the high-profile activities we were
involved in during 2008 include:
Numerous highlights stand out from the year. VCCP’s
‘Alcohol: Know your limits’ campaign combined creative
flair with a deep understanding of digital media and modern
opinion-forming and used this to deliver fantastic levels
of engagement around a sensitive message. Teamspirit’s
award-winning launch of MetLife in the UK proved just
how powerful a well-constructed brand reputation can be.
Fast Track’s Lucozade Sport Performance League helped
amateur footballers across the country to realise their
potential, whilst building strong grassroots support for the
brand. The groundbreaking study of the impact of Unilever’s
operations on Southern Africa, conducted by Corporate
Citizenship, is an excellent example of the power of
communicating values through actions. Opinion Leader’s
work for Bupa demonstrated the strategic role of deliberative
research. Meanwhile, the successful election campaign of
President Banda in Zambia and innovative work for Müller,
Fortnum & Mason and GS4 provided further demonstrations
of the expertise of the PR Division in building powerful and
valuable reputations across all regions, sectors and scenarios.
Christopher Satterthwaite
Group Chief Executive Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Public Relations
6
During a year of exceptional economic uncertainty, the Public
Relations Division has demonstrated the ongoing strength of
its business model and the value of developments carried out
within the Group over the previous year. Despite the global
downturn, the Division succeeded in meeting all financial
targets for 2008, continuing to enhance its own reputation
through high-profile work and adding significant new clients
to its roster. With growth in international and consumer
PR solutions offsetting the impact of the downturn on
our Corporate and Financial agencies, the Division begins
2009 with the same level of retained revenue with which
it commenced the previous year.
This robust performance rests on an international approach,
to the extent that about half of the Division’s revenues now
come from outside the UK private sector; on developing
services that are of ongoing value to clients in the current
climate; and on pioneering collaborative, multi-disciplinary
approaches that expand the boundaries of traditional public
relations. Developing opportunities in key markets and
increased market recognition of the value of PR services
all point towards a continued resilient performance in 2009.
Public
Relations
Division
Public Relations Division
Bell Pottinger Group
Bell Pottinger Sans Frontières
Bell Pottinger Corporate & Financial
Bell Pottinger Public Affairs
Bell Pottinger Public Relations
Bell Pottinger Business & Brand
Bell Pottinger Issues & Crisis Management
Bell Pottinger Search Relations
Good Relations
Harvard Public Relations
Resonate
Corporate Citizenship
De Facto
tta Group
Insight Marketing
Bell Pottinger North
Good Relations Wales
Bell Pottinger Communications USA
Bell Pottinger USA
Bell Pottinger Middle East
Harvard Germany
MMK
Traffic
The Bell Pottinger Group is
ranked No. 1 in the PR Week
and Marketing magazine
league tables, and comprises
22 businesses operating in the
UK and around the world.
The Group’s companies cover
all aspects of public relations
and communications work from
crisis and issues management
to strategic communications
and CR consultancy.
“This robust performance rests
on an international approach,
to the extent that about half
of the Division’s revenues now
come from outside the UK
private sector.” International development
Bell Pottinger Middle East expanded its footprint during
2008, with new offices in Abu Dhabi and Bahrain adding
to its existing operations in Dubai and Doha. Although the
effects of the global downturn have been felt in the region,
the flow of new business remains healthy and our presence
in the region is increasing the Group’s exposure to key
global accounts.
The merging of the Bell Pottinger Collective with Bell Pottinger
Sans Frontières, which provides clients with a single point
of contact for the Division’s most senior communications
advisors, has helped to increase the flow of global business
whilst strengthening our ability to deliver exceptional,
multi-disciplinary solutions to complex geopolitical briefs.
Key international campaigns delivered by the Group during
2008 included co-ordinating the successful election campaign
of Zambia’s President Banda, high-profile work to build
stronger ties between Belarus and the European Union,
our well-regarded support for the Bahrain Economic
Development Board and our management of Madrid’s bid
for the 2016 Olympic Games. We also repitched successfully
on the global PR account for Emirates, a Bell Pottinger client
for over eight years.
Greater exposure to the public sector
An increased focus on developing our public sector exposure
during 2008 has delivered a number of significant new
opportunities that provide scope for enhanced revenue over
the coming year. The Bell Pottinger Group was successful
in securing a position on seven of the Central Office
of Information’s eight PR rosters, securing a vital conduit
for Government work over the medium term. High-profile
campaigns in public health have brought together companies
from across the Bell Pottinger Group as well as Chime’s
marketing services and research Divisions to deliver
multi-disciplinary communications solutions.
Regulatory environment driving
demand for CR services
Corporate Citizenship, an agency formed by combining
The Smart Company with The Corporate Citizenship
Company, continues to set standards in a sector that
is now seen as a non-negotiable investment by most major
companies. The current regulatory environment is increasing
demand for credible, transparent CR initiatives. Work such as
the groundbreaking tracking of Unilever’s economic impact
on Southern Africa and detailed, global CR consultancy for
Pearson is establishing Corporate Citizenship as a leader
in this field.
Significant growth and expansion
in property
Despite the downturn in the property market, property
planning remains an extremely active sector, with
significant growth in planning application business both
for Bell Pottinger North and in London. The Division’s
specialist property agency, tta, maintained a healthy
level of property development work, with expansion into
Abu Dhabi and Dubai opening up new markets and
providing opportunities for growth.
Investment in people drives new
business performance
The robust new business performance delivered by
the Division in 2008 shows the value of our considerable
investment in business development skills across all
companies. Good Relations and Harvard, two of our
portfolio of PR agencies, have continued to respond
extremely positively to the recent introduction of new
management teams. New clients arriving across the
PR Division during 2008 included G4S, the world’s second
largest employer, for which the Bell Pottinger Group will
provide a range of consultancy and auditing services,
Barclaycard, Farnborough Airport and HSBC.
Opportunities and outlook
Across the communications marketplace, economic
uncertainty is driving demand both for crisis management
PR services and for integrated solutions that can join up
conversations with shareholders, governments, customers
and other stakeholders. With digital and social networking
expertise now an intrinsic element of any communications
campaign, the range of expertise that can be brought to
bear from across the PR Division and the broader Chime
Group gives us a vital competitive advantage in our market.
Campaigns launched this year for Müller, Fortnum & Mason,
Vodafone and 118 118 are just some examples of Group
work built around the realities of reputation forming
in the digital age.
Despite the growing pressure on marketing budgets,
Consumer PR remains an area of significant opportunity,
with many clients looking to find new, more effective channels
for engaging consumers and building brand reputation, and
the integrated solutions available through the Bell Pottinger
Group offers a vital point of difference in the market.
It is an indicator of the extent to which PR has ‘come
of age’ as a marketing tool that spend on the area is being
maintained despite the pressure that marketing budgets
have come under.
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
7
Public Relations Public Relations
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
8
Winning
Client: President Rupiah B Banda of Zambia
August 2008. Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa of the
MMD Party dies. An election must be held within 90 days.
The MMD’s candidate is Rupiah Banda, a former diplomat.
The PF opposition have Michael Sata, a political veteran.
The PF scent victory. Banda needs advice.
Bell Pottinger Sans Frontières fly in. Their team handle every
aspect of his campaign – policy and polling, rallies and
rebuttal, tactics and T -shirts.
Then, after eight exhausting weeks, Banda’s victory speech.
Winning
August 2008 Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa of the Public Relations
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
9
Expressing
Client: Mencap
How to represent Mencap? By listening to those it
represents. In 40 workshops and interviews nationwide
Rare Corporate Design heard from people with learning
disabilities, their families and carers. ‘The voice of learning
disability’ rebranding line resulted.
But with one simple speech bubble the identity goes
beyond that, and gives those with a learning disability
a voice.
Expressing
How to represent Mencap? By listening to those it Public Relations
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
10
Growing
Client: Tesco
How to invigorate Tesco’s annual Computers For Schools
Scheme? Humour. Resonate’s witty ‘Rise of the I.T. girls’
story reminded parents exactly how computers benefit
children, how each voucher is a leg up for a child, not just
a piece of paper.
The papers loved it, from The Sunday Times to children’s
title First News, with almost 300 positive stories over the
campaign.
And for Tesco a PR ROI of 6:1 – buy one, get five free.
Growing
How to invigorate Tesco’s annual Computers For Schools Public Relations
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
11
L(a)unching
Client: GO3
GO3 teamed up with David Beckham to produce their
healthy family food range.
Resonate ran the UK launch – lunch for schoolchildren
hosted by Beckham himself on Wembley’s hallowed turf.
It was seamless, thanks to Resonate’s work rate. They
media-trained GO3’s people, liaised with Beckham’s people,
and worked with the Wembley team. Then they ran the big
day, organising 250 excited schoolchildren, and entertaining
GO3’s guests, setting up interviews and photoshoots.
The result? GO3, Other Brands 0.
L(a)unching
GO3 teamed up with David Beckham to produce their Public Relations
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
12
Charming
Client: Texaco
Hector (aged nine, purple hair) teaches road safety for
Texaco. VCCP gave him a busy 2008.
His Roadshow (with Good Relations holding Hector’s hand)
toured primary schools. His road-safety lessons entertained
classrooms. His website now includes Hector’s spooky
school St. Oddballs, fantastically mad safety films and
parents’ and teachers’ sections. And his reflective, walking
to school ghost gowns flew out of Texaco stations as
quickly as parents’ goodwill flew in.
Phew, VCCP and Good Relations deserve a nap.
Charming
Hector (aged nine purple hair) teaches road safety for Public Relations
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
13
Scrutinising
Client: Unilever
Corporate Citizenship help Unilever answer critical questions:
how do their operations affect suppliers, or employees,
or the environment?
This isn’t window dressing. One study Corporate Citizenship
helped run – by Prof. Ethan Kapstein of INSEAD – scrutinised
Unilever’s economic impact on South Africa. Oxfam, NGO
reps, environmentalists, and more, then scrutinized Kapstein’s
results. The study showed three things: Unilever’s openness;
Corporate Citizenship’s diligence; and that every job Unilever
created indirectly created 20 more in South Africa’s
unemployment-riddled economy.
Scrutinising
Corporate Citizenship help Unilever answer critical questions: Emissions
Recycling
Energy
Impact
Pursuit of
Dreams
Car
Disposal
Public Relations
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
14
Philosophising
Client: Honda
EU Directive 2000/53/EC obliged auto manufacturers to
detail the end-of-life environmental impact of their cars.
‘Excellent!’ thought Good Relations. For decades
Honda had walked the environmental walk which
others only talked.
So while Hondaeco.eu, the 29-language website
Good Relations conceived and oversaw, gave the data
Brussels demanded, it also laid out Honda’s long-held
eco-philosophy and new green achievements such as
Insight, the world’s first low-cost hybrid.
An obligation had been made an opportunity.
Philosophising
EU Directive 2000/53/EC obliged auto manufacturers to Chime division
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Public Relations
Sustaining
Client: Pearson
Pearson were early signatories of the UN Global Compact,
which established principles on the environment, human
and labour rights.
Corporate Citizenship help them keep their pledge: advising
on essentials such as sustainable sourcing and carbon
footprints; writing multi-national CR reports; providing
answers to investors’ probing CR questions; exploring new
areas of ethical commitment. Their work helped Pearson
gain gold, platinum and sector leader status in Dow Jones
and BITC’s CR Indexes.
Judging by Corporate Citizenship’s record, that’s
sustainable.
Sustaining
Pearson were early signatories of the UN Global Compact
15 Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Advertising and Marketing Services
16
Advertising
and Marketing
Services Division
Chime’s Advertising and
Marketing Services Division
includes the agencies of the
VCCP Group, the sports
marketing agency Fast Track
and specialist financial services
agency Teamspirit.
Across the Advertising and Marketing Services Division,
Chime’s agencies have found opportunities to maintain or
grow revenues, despite the growing pressure on marketing
budgets. Prospects for the short and medium term remain
strong, supported by increased exposure to public sector
budgets, innovative integrated offerings and growth in sports
marketing activity in part resulting from the approach of the
2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games in London.
VCCP Group
A strong new business performance and an expanding
footprint amongst public sector clients are helping VCCP
Group to meet targets and deliver stable revenues. VCCP
has also expanded internationally, recently opening an
office in Berlin to stand alongside the presence in Qatar
and Abu Dhabi
VCCP won and launched a major Government campaign
on alcohol awareness under the campaign message
‘Alcohol: know your limits’, which provides ongoing work
across three separate departments. High profile and hugely
successful, the campaign involved the agency developing
different iterations of a central campaign theme to fit the key
challenges and messages of the Department of Health,
Home Office and Department for Children, Schools and
Families. The integrated campaign includes TV , print and
digital advertising, with one viral advertisement generating
over a million hits within six weeks. Early research shows
a strong impact on attitudes resulting from the campaign,
which is aimed at delivering long-term behavioural change
across a number of key demographics.
Further exposure to the public sector comes through VCCP
Group’s work on the Get Real campaign for the School Food
Trust, which integrates advertising across print and digital
media with roadshows created by the Group’s promotional
marketing agency, BMT. VCCP also won the account for
the Food Standards Agency during the year, as well
as a campaign for the National Health Service promoting
Hepatitis C testing.
Despite the downturn, VCCP succeeded in securing several
new accounts in the financial services sector, launching
high-profile through-the-line campaigns for Standard Life and
Hiscox Insurance. The Group’s direct marketing agency SFW
won a place on the global roster for RSA and the European
roster for Visa. VCCP Blue, which was initially designed
to offer advertising to clients on challenging budgets, has
continued its rate of growth by both attracting new clients
and developing its smaller clients into large clients.
The success of ongoing work for established clients adds
more stability to the Group’s revenues. VCCP led a hugely
successful brand update campaign for O2, which introduced
the campaign message “we’re better, connected” and
is continuing to raise the brand’s profile across the music
industry, building on the success of The O2, now the world’s
most popular entertainment venue. BMT and SFW, our
promotional marketing and direct marketing agencies, gain
stability from the 25% of their revenues that are shared
across the Group, providing a pipeline of ongoing, contracted
work in project-led sectors.
Advertising and Marketing
Services Division
The VCCP Group
VCCP
BMT
BMT Business
VCCP Blue
VCCP Digital
VCCP Health
VCCP Search
SFW
SomeOne
Specialists
Fast Track
Fast Track Sailing
Fast Track Spain
Pure Media
Stuart Higgins
Communications
Teamspirit
The Sports Business
XandY Communications Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
17
Advertising and Marketing Services
VCCP Search continues to deliver strong growth, backed
by innovative, differentiating technology and adding a vital
element to successful VCCP campaigns such as that for
www.comparethemarket.com. Launched in 2007, the
branding agency SomeOne is already delivering work for
British Basketball and the Royal Opera House. VCCP Health
has made an impressive start, working for two of the ten
clients within the specialist healthcare sector.
With the Group’s portfolio of clients largely free of exposure
to the banking and retail sectors that have seen the most
significant cuts in marketing expenditure, prospects for
2009 remain strong.
Fast Track
The Division’s full-service sports marketing agency, Fast Track,
delivered strong growth across all areas of activity during
2008. High-profile work during the year included the
communications team’s successful activation of British
Telecom’s partnership with the 2012 Olympic and Paralympic
Games in London; the integration of the agency’s event
management and communications offerings to raise the
profile of British Basketball and support the national team’s
bid to qualify for the 2012 competition; the ongoing success
of the televised indoor and outdoor meetings organised by
Fast Track for UK Athletics; and the role of Fast Track’s
consultancy in planning activation campaigns for high-profile
brands such as Lucozade Sport, Emirates, Land Rover,
HSBC and National Express.
Consistent return on investment (ROI) ensures that sports
marketing remains an attractive channel for brands looking
to maintain a cost-effective profile over the short and medium
term. The approach of the 2012 Olympic and Paralympic
Games in London is helping to boost activity in the market,
with seven Tier-1 sponsors signed up to sponsorship deals
each individually worth in the region of £50 million, and all
sponsors looking to gain maximum value from their rights
over the three-year period leading up to the Games.
Fast Track’s end-to-end offering, from consulting on
sponsorship opportunities to developing activation strategies,
driving communications and organising and managing
events, positions the agency strongly to benefit from this
increased activity.
Teamspirit
Teamspirit, the Division’s specialist financial services agency,
continued to perform well during 2008, despite the immense
challenges facing the financial sector. The agency’s expanding
digital and PR offerings, and the consistently high quality of
its integrated work, are helping to maintain demand for its
specialist services in the current environment.
The agency picked up the Institute of Financial Services’
Innovation award for Best Marketing Campaign for its launch
of MetLife, the world’s largest insurer, in the UK, and took
home two marketing effectiveness awards from the Financial
Services Forum for its work for unbiased.co.uk and Prudential.
Besides MetLife, the year’s major wins included digital work
for Aviva and Abbey and the rebranding of Legal & General’s
investment management arm through an integrated
advertising and PR campaign.
Medium-term prospects for the sector remain robust, with
well-respected brands determined to maintain a marketing
profile during the downturn and digital channels, in particular,
offering strong advantages through ROI and detailed tracking
of budgets. Financial Services typically leads the economic
cycle, with the effects of the downturn felt earlier than
in other sectors and activity likely to increase ahead
of an economic upturn.
“Prospects for the short and
medium term remain strong,
supported by increased
exposure to public sector
budgets, innovative
integrated offerings and
growth in sports marketing
activity resulting from the
approach the 2012 Olympic
and Paralympic Games
in London.” Chime division
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
18
Advertising and Marketing Services
Thriving
Client: British Performace Basketball
British Basketball is thriving. Fast Track gets it known
nationally (an Observer dps featuring 6’9’’ Britain and
Chicago Bulls star Luol Deng; the women’s team modelling
evening wear in The Times) and locally (they even got
football off The Echo’s back page in Liverpool).
They give a guiding hand to the British Basketball press
office, and help stage games – A record-breaking crowd
of 7,500 saw Britain play the Czechs at The O2.
Towering assist work from Fast Track.
Thriving
British Basketball is thriving Fast Track gets it known Chime division
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
19
Advertising and Marketing Services
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
19
Distilling
Client: Home Office and Department of Health
People don’t drink alike. VCCP had to address two drinking
crowds using one ‘Know your limits’ brand. For binge
drinkers, their commercial employed the potent switch
of sober drinkers making a stomach-churning mess of
themselves before going out. (The viral execution got
one million hits within six weeks.)
For social drinkers, the measured approach of alcohol
unit totals appearing in drinks. Each approach right,
each different, each dovetailing in one endline.
You need a clear head to do that.
Distilling
People don’t drink alike VCCP had to address two drinking Chime division
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
20
Advertising and Marketing Services
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
20
Detailing
Client: Royal Opera House
“A modern, yet authentically beautiful work of art.” Thus the
Royal Opera House described SomeOne and ML-N’s
rebranding of their identity. It was quite a performance: the
Royal Coat of Arms made gloriously detailed when large but
maintaining its resonant crest when small; the crest itself
expanded slightly allowing details to breathe; a potent
palette of colours employed in printed communications
and, conveying both modernity and tradition, the sans serif
but stately Gotham font.
Bravo.
Detailing
“A modern yet authentically beautiful work of art ” Thus the Chime division
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
21
Advertising and Marketing Services
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
21
Distinguishing
Client: O2
An agency can create a style of advertising for a brand that’s
so distinctive, it makes changes of brand direction much
easier to navigate. For O2, VCCP created a calm, bubbling
blue world.
Then O2’s brand promise changed, from ‘See what you
can do’ to ‘We’re better, connected’. But the launch
commercial’s surreally connected world was so
recognisably O2’s, the change was seamless.
It sounds simple. It isn’t. VCCP just makes it seem so.
Distinguishing
An agency can create a style of advertising for a brand that’s Chime division
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
22
Advertising and Marketing Services
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
22
Uniting
Client: Lucozade Sport
One Fast Track idea for Lucozade Sport brings football’s
elite and masses together.
The Lucozade Sport Performance League (LSPL): 80
amateur teams nationwide. Lucozade Sport scientists visit
every team bearing fitness advice. Barclays Premier League
coaches train a different team every month, their tips
passed on through the website, talkSPORT, Four Four Two,
and regional media. Final games are played at Manchester
United and Arsenal.
Not a trickle-down of goodwill for Lucozade Sport, a flood.
Uniting
O On One e F Fa Fa t st st T T Tra ra k ck ck i i id de dea a f fo for r L Lu Luco coza zad de de S S Spo po t rt rt b b b i ri ring ngs s f fo fo t ot otb ba ball ll ll’ ’s s Advertising and Marketing Services
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
23
Make schoolkids eat school dinners, not junk food?
Get Real, said VCCP Group.
Get Real, developed by VCCP Digital, showed exactly what
goes into some of the nation’s favourite junk foods and got
kids talking turkey (not twizzlers!) on its blog. School posters
plugged the site and the Real Fast Food Show showed kids
exactly what they were eating when they popped into their
local kebab shop at lunchtime. Sister agency BMT delivered
the show directly into schools using trained chefs and the
actual ingredients found in some of our favorite junk foods.
12,000 kids were exposed to the show, and even more
saw it online...
...which meant the dinner ladies saw longer queues.
Scoffing
Client: School Food Trust
Scoffing
M Ma Mak ke ke s s h ch choo oolk lk lkid id ids s ea eat t sc sch ho ho l ol ol d d di in inne ners rs no not t j ju ju k nk nk f f foo ood? d? d? Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
24
Advertising and Marketing Services
Clicking
Client: cheapflights.co.uk
Search marketing is merciless. If an agency’s software
doesn’t channel the right customers to a website, the client
knows, that hour.
VCCP Search’s client, Cheapflights, wanted more of the
right customers, a higher return on the money they paid
Google for clickthroughs.
They gave VCCP Search a month’s trial. VCCP Search gave
them their highest ever return (up 40%), more visitors and
shrewd advice on marketing Cheapflights.
First class results.
Clicking
Search marketing is merciless If an agency’s software Chime division
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
25
Advertising and Marketing Services
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
25
Enlivening
Client: MetLife
Teamspirit’s client MetLife – a relatively unknown player in
the market – was to launch an exciting new kind of pension.
The Retirement Portfolio guaranteed both capital and
income, bringing certainty into an uncertain world.
A powerful product campaign was created – a question
mark was destroyed by dynamite above the headline
‘Goodbye uncertainty’. And it certainly worked. Sales
increased by 260% in the first six-week period and the
campaign went on to win an IFS Financial Marketing
Innovation Award.
MetLife had come alive in the UK.
Enlivening
Teamspirit’s client MetLife a relatively unknown player in Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Research and Engagement
26
Research and
Engagement
Division
Chime’s Research and
Engagement Division consists
of Opinion Leader, Ledbury
Research, Facts International,
Brand Democracy, Caucus
and Naked Eye.
Periods of economic uncertainty typically impact most
severely on project-based services such as market research.
However, international expansion and innovative new offers
have ensured that Chime’s Research and Engagement
Division ends 2008 with a stronger outlook for the
year ahead.
The Division welcomed a number of significant new clients
during 2008, with award-winning projects enhancing its
reputation as a market leader. Whilst public sector work
continues to represent a slim majority of revenues, the
contribution of the private sector has been maintained,
with new opportunities developing internationally and new
products generating increased demand within the UK.
Early demand for the innovative offers of Brand Democracy,
Caucus and Naked Eye is extremely encouraging for the
prospects of these companies.
Performance during 2008
Opinion Leader, Chime’s pioneering research-based
consultancy, won a Market Research Society award for its
study of the future of financial advice and distribution for
Aegon UK. A multi-national research programme for
Bupa focused on developing a consumer-centred global
communications strategy, while, for Aviva, the agency
undertook global stakeholder research gauging the brand’s
reputation across the UK and Europe. Thames Water and the
Department for Communities and Local Government also
joined Opinion Leader’s client roster.
The health sector delivered growth during the year, with
Opinion Leader winning and conducting a major consultation
for Westminster Primary Care Trust as the basis for the Trust’s
rebranding and further work for City and Hackney Primary
Care Trust, the Arthritis Research Campaign and West
Midlands Strategic Health Authority.
Ledbury Research, which offers an approach to research
tailored around luxury and high net worth consumers,
expanded its scope of international clients significantly during
the year, with 70% of revenues now coming from outside the
UK. De Beers, JP Morgan, Jaguar and UBS were among
the new clients working with Ledbury in 2008.
Facts International delivered a year of revenue growth,
extending its data collection platforms to include mobile for
the first time and delivering pioneering fieldwork projects such
as an extensive study to determine the effect of the tobacco
advertising ban on children’s attitude to smoking.
New offers generating demand
The launch of two new companies and the acquisition
of a third has strengthened the Research and Engagement
Division’s reputation as a research pioneer, and generated
significant demand amongst both public and private
sector clients.
Brand Democracy exceeded all targets during its first year
of operation, with a client list that already includes Diageo,
the BBC, Channel 4, Kingfisher and Action for Children.
The agency uses techniques pioneered in political research
to establish the relative strength of brands and their
messages through competitive polling.
Research and Engagement Division
Brand Democracy
Caucus
Facts International
Ledbury Research
Naked Eye
Opinion Leader Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
27
Research and Engagement
“Opinion Leader has
always maintained its
position as a pioneer
through the development
of innovative techniques
and tools that put insights
and technologies from
across different sectors at
the disposal of its clients.”
The digital research platform developed by Caucus, another
new launch, harnesses the power of social networks to
deliver insights into what people say about clients when they
are “not in the room”. Caucus establishes tailored online
communities, allowing analysis of discussions between
consumers rather than a simple dialogue with brand
representatives. Such consumer-generated insight provides
an exciting opportunity to gauge brands’ true reputations
in a digital environment that increasingly dominates
opinion forming.
Caucus also provides the Research and Engagement
Division with a platform for rolling out the large-scale
deliberative consultations that it has pioneered in recent
years. The deliberative approach uses informed dialogue
to provide insight into how consumer thinking develops.
Naked Eye, another newcomer to the Division, is leading
the way in the fast-developing field of ethnographic research.
The ethnographic approach provides clients with a unique
perspective on consumers by observing behaviour and using
this as the basis for research discussions. It moves the
boundaries of research techniques: from listening to
consumers to observing the way they actually behave.
The value of a distinct positioning
Each of these new companies has an offer rooted in the
Division’s commitment to helping brands “walk in their
customers’ shoes”. This distinct positioning has had a high
profile across the marketing community during the past year.
In turbulent times, consumers increasingly favour brands that
are demonstrably in tune with their current needs, with
customer experience a major driver of reputation. Chime’s
well-established position as a research pioneer, with
distinctive tools designed to put brands closer to consumers
than their competitors, has real appeal to clients in such
an environment. Chime division
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
28
Research and Engagement
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
28
Affirming
Client: Channel 4
Channel 4’s position depends on appealing to advertisers
whilst delivering public service value. With reduced
advertising revenues and the funding of public service
broadcasting under review, this position was under threat.
Brand Democracy brought a new perspective to the
picture, providing an understanding of social change
in Britain, of the potential role of public service content
and of public support for alternative funding models.
High-quality data was crucial to the regulator’s decision
to affirm an ongoing public service role for Channel 4.
The show goes on – with the audience clearer than ever.
Affirming
Channel 4’s position depends on appealing to advertisers Research and Engagement
Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
29
Consulting
Client: Bupa
Bupa operates in 190 countries. How on earth could they
develop one strategy that made Bupa’s world revolve
around the customer? Globally, with Opinion Leader.
Opinion Leader ran forums in three continents and seven
cities, from London to Sydney. 400 customers were briefed
on the latest healthcare thinking, then had their imaginations
sparked with discussions about ‘Customer Utopia’ and
‘Planet Perfect’ – what their ideal service would be.
Their thoughts formed the core of Bupa’s new
global strategy.
Consulting
Bupa operates in 190 countries How on earth could they Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Finance Director’s review
30
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
The Group has further improved the strength of its balance
sheet in 2008 and has continued to strengthen its financial
controls. If the current economic uncertainty continues then
the importance of both of these will increase. Further
improvements are being targeted in 2009.
The Group manages its internal operational performance
using a number of KPIs. The most important of these are
as follows:
2008 2007
Operating profit margin 16.2% 16.3%
Staff costs/operating income 61.1% 58.5%
Average fee income per client £81,000 £70,000
Average fee income per employee £111,000 £105,000
% of operating income from
clients shared by more than
one business in the Group 66% 62%
% of operating income from
international work 37% 34%
Debtors days 50 days 55 days
Cash flow and banking arrangements
Net cash at 31 December 2008 was £6.3 million compared
to £0.8 million at 31 December 2007.
The Group benefited from unusually strong cash generation
close to the year end and if this had not occurred the
Group would have had approximately £3 million of debt
at 31 December 2008.
The Group generated cash from trading activities in 2008
of £24.6 million (2007 – £21.4 million) representing a cash
conversion on profits before tax of 151% (2007 – 155%).
The Group continues to operate well within its banking
covenants and has a borrowing facility of £32 million which
continues until July 2013.
Deferred considerations
Deferred considerations still payable, total a maximum of
£35.7 million, comprising £18.7 million payable in cash and
£17.0 million payable in shares or cash at Chime’s discretion.
The timing of these payments is £0.2 million in 2009,
£9.8 million in 2010 with the balance payable between
2011 and 2014.
Capital expenditure and investment
Total capital expenditure for 2008 was £2.2 million
(2007 – £1.9 million). The main categories of investment are
leasehold improvements (£0.5 million) fixtures and fittings
(£1.3 million), computer software (£0.2 million), and motor
vehicles (£0.2 million).
Procurement
The Group operates a central procurement function which
uses the power of the Group to ensure that all businesses
buy materials and services as cost effectively as possible.
Finance Director’s
review
2008 2007 2006
16.2 16.3
15.7
2007 2006 2008
Operating profit
margin (%)
2008 2007 2006
61.1
58.5
60.1
2007 2006 2008
Staff costs /
operating income (%)
2008 2007 2006
81
70
68
2007 2006 2008
Average fee income
per client (£’000) Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
31
Finance Director’s review
Pensions
All the Group’s employees are entitled to contribute to the
Group’s pension scheme or to personal pension schemes.
These are all defined contribution schemes.
Taxation
The effective tax charge for 2008 was 31.6% compared
to 32.4% last year. The notional finance costs of deferred
considerations which are not subject to tax relief and deferred
tax charges relating to share option schemes increased the
effective tax charge above the UK corporation tax rate of 28%.
Dividends
The dividend has increased in line with the adoption of
a more progressive dividend policy announced this time
last year. The Group now operates a 4 times cover policy.
The Board is proposing to pay a final dividend of 3.18p per
share (2007 – 2.40p), giving a total dividend per share of
4.72p compared to 3.50p in 2007, this is an increase of
35%. The final dividend will be payable on 19 June 2009 to
shareholders on the register at 29 May 2009. The expected
ex-dividend date is 27 May 2009.
Going concern
The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts
which indicate that the Group has adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future. In preparing these forecasts the directors have
taken into account the following key factors:
• The possible impact of the continued economic
downturn on the Group’s business
• Key client account renewals
• The level of committed and variable costs
• Current new business targets compared to levels
achieved in previous years
The Directors have concluded, based on the cash flow
forecasts, that it is appropriate to prepare the accounts
on a going concern basis.
Outlook
In 2008 the Group put a lot of emphasis on conserving and
generating cash. This included reviewing and improving client
contracts and terms of business, supervision procedures
and credit control. There are no significant deferred
considerations payable in 2009 so the Group is expecting
again to be cash positive at the end of 2009.
The Group will retain its current borrowing facilities so that it is
well placed to deal with any deterioration in trading conditions
in the future.
Mark Smith
Group Finance Director
11 March 2009
Note:
More detail on the Group's cash position and facilities
at 31 December 2008, as well as maturities of the financial
liabilities, can be found in note 43 to the financial statements.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group
are included in the Director's report and note 43. Details
on the performance of the entity in the year and the
future prospects of the Group can be found in the
Chairman's statement.
Details of potential contingent liabilities and potential
cash outflows in relation to these liabilities can be found
in note 38.
2008 2007 2006
50
55
51
2007 2006 2008
Debtors days
(No. of days)
2008 2007 2006
111
105
104
2007 2006 2008
Average income per
employee (£’000)
2008 2007 2006
66
62
53
2007 2006 2008
Income from
shared clients (%)
International
income (%)
37
34
2008 2007 2006
32
2007 2006 2008 Lord Bell
Chairman
Piers Pottinger
Deputy Chairman
Christopher Satterthwaite
Chief Executive
Mark Smith
Finance Director
Rodger Hughes
Senior Non-Executive *‡#
Dave Allen
Non-Executive
(resigned 16 December 2008)
Hon. Richard Alston
(appointed 2 July 2008)
Non-Executive
Catherine Biner Bradley
Non-Executive *‡#
Paul Richardson
Non-Executive *‡#
* Member of the Audit Committee
‡ Member of the Remuneration Committee
# Member of the Nominations Committee
COMPANY SECRETARY
Robert Davison
Lord Bell, aged 67
Chairman
Lord Bell is one of the best known figures in
the United Kingdom communications industry.
He helped found Saatchi & Saatchi in 1970,
and as International Chairman he took Saatchi
& Saatchi into its position as the first British
No. 1 worldwide advertising agency in 1981.
He successfully ran the publicity campaigns for
the Conservative Party for the general elections
in 1979, 1983 and 1987.
He was appointed Deputy Chairman of Lowe
Howard-Spink & Bell plc in 1985 and remained
in that position until the formation of Chime
Communications in 1989. He advised the
chairmen of many of Britain’s leading
companies and organisations as well as foreign
heads of state and international business
leaders and politicians. He was awarded a
knighthood in 1990 by Lady Thatcher in her
resignation honours and a peerage by
Tony Blair.
Piers Pottinger, aged 55
Deputy Chairman
Following three years at J Henry Schroder
Wagg & Co Limited, Piers Pottinger spent
three years as an analyst with stockbrokers
Laurence Prust. In 1978, he joined Charles
Barker. He spent two years as Director of
Media Relations at Manufacturers Hanover
Trust in New York before returning to London
as Managing Director of Sterling Financial
Public Relations in 1982. He joined Good
Relations City (now Bell Pottinger Corporate &
Financial) as Managing Director in 1985 and
was also a director of Good Relations Group
plc. He is currently Chairman of Sportech plc,
a Vice President of the National Society for
Epilepsy, a Trustee of the Foundation for
Liver Research and a director of Racing Welfare.
Christopher Satterthwaite, aged 52
Chief Executive
Christopher Satterthwaite began his
commercial career as a graduate trainee at
HJ Heinz. Since his grounding on the client
side, he has worked for three different kinds of
marketing communication agencies; IMP 1981
– 1993, then the UK’s largest sales promotion
and direct marketing agency; HHCL & Partners
1993 – 2000, Campaign’s 1990s ‘Advertising
Agency of the Decade’; and Bell Pottinger
2000 – 2001, the UK’s leading Public Relations
agency. Christopher was appointed Chief
Executive of Chime Communications plc in
2002. He is a Non-Executive Director of
Centaur Media plc, appointed in July 2007
and is Chairman of The Marketing Society.
Mark Smith, aged 53
Finance Director
Mark Smith has been a Chartered Accountant
since 1978, having qualified with Touche Ross
& Co (now Deloitte LLP). Following two years
as European Finance Director at RCA Records,
he joined Good Relations Group plc in 1984
and became its Group Finance Director in
1985. In 1986 he became Finance Director of
Lowe Bell Communications (now Bell Pottinger
Group) and Finance Director of Chime
Communications at the time of the
management buy-out in 1989. Since 1989
he has also been responsible for all Chime’s
corporate transactions. Mark is a
Non-Executive Director of Holiday Extras
Holdings Limited.
Directors Board of Directors
Chime Communications plc 32
Board of Directors Board of Directors
Rodger Hughes, aged 60
Senior Non-Executive Director
Rodger Hughes is a Chartered Accountant who
was a partner in PricewaterhouseCoopers for
25 years, including four years as Managing
Partner and seven years as Head of the
Assurance practice. He has had extensive
experience advising a wide range of clients on
business issues and was for some years the
firm's Advertising Industry leader. He was, until
2007, Auditor to the Duchy of Cornwall. Rodger
is a non-executive member of the board of
Simmons and Simmons, the international law
firm, a member of the Steering Board of
Companies House and a Non-Executive
Director of Friends Provident plc.
Hon. Richard Alston, aged 67
Non-Executive Director
Hon. Richard Alston served as Australian High
Commissioner to the United Kingdom from
February 2005 until March 2008, after a
distinguished career in the Australian
Parliament as a Senator for Victoria from 1986
until February 2004. Prior to entering
Parliament he had extensive experience as a
barrister, practising in common law,
commercial and administrative law.
From March 1996 to October 2003 he was
Federal Minister for Communications,
Information Technology and the Arts. He
served on the Liberal/National Coalition front
bench continuously for nearly 15 years.
As Deputy Leader in the Senate for more than
ten years, he was one of the four members
of the Liberal Party leadership group, which
included the Prime Minister and the Treasurer.
After leaving Parliament, he entered the
business sector, where he provided advice
and consulting services in both the national
and international arenas. He served on the
boards of a number of publicly listed
companies, including Hansen Technologies,
UCMS and Broadcast Services Australia,
where he was Chairman.
He is currently a member of the international
advisory board of London-based hedge fund
CQS, as well as being an Adjunct Professor at
Bond University Queensland and a member of
the Bell Shakespeare and Melba Foundations.
Catherine Biner Bradley, aged 55
Non-Executive Director
Catherine Biner Bradley is a Swiss lawyer with
offices in Geneva and Vaud who specialises in
business law and in Swiss and international
tax planning. She founded Bourquin & Biner
Bradley, where she remains a partner today.
She serves on the board of directors of a
number of Swiss and international companies.
She was a Director of COLT Telecom plc for
five years, commencing with its initial
listing on the London Stock Exchange in
1996, serving during that period on its Audit
and Compensation Committees.
Paul Richardson, aged 51
Non-Executive Director
Paul Richardson became Group Finance
Director of WPP Group plc in December 1996
after four years with the Company as Director
of Treasury. He is responsible for the Group’s
worldwide finance function, including external
reporting, taxation, procurement, property,
treasury and internal audit. Previously he spent
six years with the central team of Hanson plc
financing major acquisitions and disposals. He
is a Chartered Accountant and member of the
Association of Corporate Treasurers. He is also
a non-executive director of S.T.W in Australia.
Robert Davison, aged 51
Company Secretary
Robert joined the Group in 1987 as Group
Services Manager, became Assistant Company
Secretary in 1994 and Director of
Administration in 1998. Prior to joining the
Group he worked in the music industry for ten
years, initially for PolyGram, including working
on the launch of the compact disc format in
Europe, and later with RCA Records. In his
current role he is additionally responsible for
the Group’s centralised functions such as IT,
property, HR and risk management. Robert is a
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries
and Administrators.
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 33 Executive Management Team
Piers Pottinger, aged 55
(For biographical details see page 32)
Christopher Satterthwaite, aged 52
(For biographical details see page 32)
Mark Smith, aged 53
(For biographical details see page 32)
Chime Communications plc 34
Executive Management Team
Adrian Coleman, aged 45
Adrian Coleman is one of the founding
partners of VCCP , which was launched in
January 2002. Since joining Chime, Adrian
now heads up the Advertising and Marketing
Services Division, which includes VCCP , VCCP
Digital, VCCP Search, VCCP Blue, BMT and
SFW. Prior to this he was Chief Executive of
the AMD Group (Chime-owned) where he
oversaw the media group, responsible for
publishing, design and online, as well as
advertising. Before joining AMD, Adrian
was a partner at HHCL & Partners, a director
of IMP and he started his career working for
Exxon on the client side. Overall, he has a
broad understanding of the marketing mix
through his previous experience.
Viki Cooke, aged 54
Following a successful career in advertising,
communications and planning, Viki is now joint
chair of Chime’s Research and Engagement
Division. Viki has played a leading role in
developing new thinking about the drivers of
corporate reputation, the use of deliberative
methods to help shape policy and ways of
identifying, understanding and engaging with
hard-to-reach audiences ranging from those
at risk of social exclusion to chief executives.
Viki is also a Trustee of Global Action Plan and
Changing Faces and is a member of Warwick
University Council.
Sue Farr, aged 53
Sue Farr has been a member of the
Management Team of Chime since 2003 and
is currently leading Chime’s strategic and
business development programme. Prior to
Chime she was European Managing Director
of Golin/Harris, an IPG-owned public relations
group, where she ran several businesses
across Europe. Most of Sue’s client-side
career has been spent in broadcasting, firstly
as Director of Corporate Communications for
Thames Television plc (1990-1993), which
saw her launch UK Gold, and subsequently as
Director of Marketing for the BBC (1993-2000),
where she was responsible for marketing
strategy, planning and implementation across
all the BBC’s public service brands.
Sue is a Trustee of Historic Royal Palaces,
Non-Executive Director at Motivcom and a
director of The Marketing Society since 1984,
she was the first woman Chair in 1991 – 1992.
She was a non-executive director of New
Look plc from 1994 until 1996. She was
Chairman of The Marketing Group of Great
Britain in 1999 – 2001. She was voted the
Advertising Woman of the Year in 1997, a
WACL Woman of Achievement in 1998 and
awarded The Marketing Society ‘Grand Prix’
in 1998.
Jim Glover, aged 43
Jim has worked in the sports marketing
industry for over 16 years. After beginning at
IMG specialising in golf clients, Jim joined US-
based golf management company Cornerstone
Sports, managing the European office. In 1994
he set up Lighthouse Communications, one of
the first independent agencies to offer the
corporate world independent, impartial advice
on sponsorship. Over the next ten years,
Jim built the company into one of the leading
and most respected independent consulting
agencies in Europe, responsible for creating
successful sponsorship programmes for
Heineken International, GlaxoSmithKline, MMC
and Ford. In December 2005, he oversaw the
successful acquisition of Lighthouse by leading
sports marketing agency Fast Track and was
asked to join the merged company as
Managing Director with responsibility for the
client-facing elements of the business. Deborah Mattinson, aged 52
Deborah Mattinson is joint chair of Chime’s
Research and Engagement Division, and is
one of Britain’s leading practitioners of
issue-based research and consultation. She
has unparalleled expertise in accessing and
understanding public opinion, in stakeholder
dialogue and in citizen engagement. She
writes and broadcasts widely on public
opinion. She is a Trustee of the Green
Alliance and Dance Umbrella.
Kevin Murray, aged 54
Kevin Murray is Chairman of the Bell Pottinger
Group, the Public Relations Division of Chime
Communications.
Kevin specialises in the field of strategic
communications and reputation management
and has years of experience advising chairmen
and chief executives, as well as managing
complex and global communications projects
and departments.
Previously he was Director of Communications
for British Airways and, before that, Director
of Corporate Affairs for AEA Technology, the
international science and engineering business
that was floated off from the United Kingdom
Atomic Energy Authority. Prior to AEA, Kevin
was Group Public Relations Manager for
Bayer companies in the UK. He is also
a former national newspaper journalist,
magazine publisher and marketing director.
Alan Pascoe, MBE, aged 61
Following a successful athletics career in
which he represented Great Britain at three
Olympic Games and won a silver medal, Alan
became involved in sponsorship, where he
has worked for over 30 years. This has
involved managing and delivering major sports
and entertainment programmes, acting as a
consultant to some of the world’s leading
brands and creating and organising some of
Britain’s most successful events. In the mid-
1980s, Alan set up API, which grew to
become one of the top three sponsorship,
television and sports marketing companies
in the world, employing over 300 people in
13 offices around the world. After selling API
to the Interpublic Group in 1998, Alan set up
Fast Track as a specialist sponsorship
consultancy with the initial task of supporting
UK Athletics to revive and re-launch British
athletics. In September 2003, Alan was
appointed to one of his most challenging roles
yet as Vice- Chairman of the London 2012
Olympic bid, which was awarded to London
by the IOC on 6 July 2005. In 2004 Alan was
voted Sponsorship Personality of the Year by
Hollis Publishing and has led Fast Track into
a hugely successful period of growth and
industry recognition, becoming the first-ever
company to win back-to-back sponsorship
industry awards as well as being nominated as
the leading sponsorship agency in the UK by
Marketing Magazine in 2005 and 2006.
Ian Priest, aged 45
Ian Priest, Founding Partner at VCCP , started
below-the-line and migrated to advertising,
with excellent integrated credentials.
His approach to work is team-based, to
encourage respect, fun, ambition and speed.
He loves working with like-minded clients and
has proven time and time again that he
delivers outstanding work that gets it right.
From Account Executive at IMP in 1986 to
Managing Director of HHCL & Partners in
1999, Ian’s career has been carved out
of brilliant campaigns and hard-nosed
business reality.
Jon Ridgeon, aged 42
Jon is a former two-time Olympic track and
field athlete, world championship silver
medallist at 110m hurdles and graduate from
Cambridge University. Post his athletics career,
Jon entered sports marketing in 1994, initially
specialising in rights marketing. When Fast
Track was established in 1998, Jon created
the communications department before
moving on to become Managing Director,
with particular responsibility for events,
communications and rights marketing.
Currently, Jon leads a team of close to 50
people responsible for delivering a number of
world-class event and commercial rights
programmes including the UK School Games,
the Paralympic World Cup and UK Athletics’
(UKA) televised event series. Recently, Jon led
the renegotiation of the Norwich Union/UKA
contract, resulting in a six-year £50 million
contract, the biggest commercial sponsorship
in British sport outside of football. In addition
to his role at Fast Track, Jon is a presenter for
Sky Sports and has also presented for BBC
Television and Radio 5 Live.
Nick Taylor, aged 56
Nick Taylor began his commercial career as a
graduate trainee in the Aerospace and Medical
divisions of Smiths Industries plc. In 1979 he
founded Harvard Public Relations, which went
on to become one of Europe’s leading TMT
consultancies with offices in London, Paris
and Munich. Following Harvard’s acquisition
by Chime in 2000, Nick joined the Executive
Management Board with responsibility for
Chime’s overseas offices; he is also a member
of the Corporate Development Team handling
M&A activity. Nick is a Non-Executive Director
of Merityre Specialists and a member of the
Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 35
Executive Management Team Directors’ statement on corporate governance
Chime Communications plc 36
Directors’ statement on corporate governance
Corporate governance report
The Board of Directors is collectively
accountable to the Company’s shareholders
for good corporate governance and is
committed to maintaining compliance with
the principles of corporate governance
contained in the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance that was issued in
2006 by the FRC (The Code).
A narrative statement on how the Company
has applied the Principles throughout the year
ended 31 December 2008 and a Statement of
Compliance appears below.
NARRATIVE STATEMENT
Directors
The Company is controlled through the Board
of Directors which, on 31 December 2008
comprised four Executive and four
Non-Executive Directors. The biographies
of the current Directors are shown on
pages 32 and 33 of this report.
During the year Hon. Richard Alston was
appointed (2 July 2008) and Dave Allen
resigned (16 December 2008), both as
Non-Executive Directors.
The Board meets quarterly and additionally as
necessary and is responsible for overall Group
strategy, acquisitions and the consideration of
significant financial matters. It reviews the
strategic direction of the Group’s trading
companies, their annual budgets and their
progress towards achievement of those
budgets. The Board is responsible for
ensuring the integrity of financial information
and that the financial controls and systems of
risk management, both financial and non-
financial, are robust and appropriate.
The Chairman, Lord Bell, is responsible for
the running of the Board and he ensures that
all Directors receive sufficient, accurate and
timely information on financial, business and
corporate issues prior to meetings. He also
ensures that the Non-Executive Directors have
access to any further supplementary
information they may require should they
request it.
The Chief Executive’s (Christopher
Satterthwaite) responsibilities focus on co-
ordinating the Company’s business and
implementing Group strategy.
Both Lord Bell and Christopher Satterthwaite
are due to retire by rotation immediately before
and are proposed for re-election at the
forthcoming AGM.
Rodger Hughes is the Senior Non-Executive
Director.
New Directors receive a full, formal and
tailored induction on joining the Board in order
to further inform them of the Company’s
activities and structure. All Directors are able
to take independent professional advice, at the
Company’s expense, in furtherance of their
duties, if necessary. The Company also makes
appropriate training available to all existing
Directors. All Directors, in accordance with the
Code, will submit themselves for re-election at
least once every three years.
Executive Directors are entitled to accept
external appointments outside the Company
and retain the fees from such appointments
provided that the Chairman’s permission is
sought and confirmed by the Board.
The Board met on four occasions during
2008. Catherine Biner Bradley attended three
meetings. Hon. Richard Alston attended both
of the meetings that took place after his
appointment. All other meetings were fully
attended. When absent from meetings the
views of the director concerned are sought
in advance then put to the meeting in order
to facilitate a comprehensive discussion.
Each director continues to make themselves
available to their fellow directors and ensures
he/she contributes to the major decisions
before the Board.
Non-Executive Directors
The individual Non-Executive Directors have
different skills, experience and qualifications
from working presently or previously in varied
sectors of the economy and as such they are
able to bring independent judgement to bear
on matters for consideration by the Board.
Rodger Hughes was appointed as a Director
by the Board in July 2007. He became the
Senior Non-Executive Director and Chairman
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination
Committees in October 2007.
Hon. Richard Alston was appointed as a
Director by the Board in July 2008 and will be
proposed for election by the shareholders at
the forthcoming AGM.
Catherine Biner Bradley is due to retire by
rotation immediately before and is proposed
for re-election at the AGM.
Paul Richardson is the WPP Group plc
representative on the Board under the
subscription agreement of 1997 and has been
a Director of the Company since that date.
Under the Code and due to his length of
service, Paul will retire immediately before and
is proposed for re-election at the AGM.
Dave Allen, WPP’s second representative on
the Board, resigned in December 2008.
The Board considers its current Non-Executive
Directors to be of sufficient calibre and
number that their views may be of sufficient
weight that no individual or small group can
dominate the Board’s decision-making process.
The Board continues to consider suitable
candidates as Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors’ terms and
conditions of appointment are available for
inspection at the Company’s registered office
on request and will be available, together with
the Executive Directors’ service contracts, at
the forthcoming AGM.
Independence of
Non-Executive Directors
The Code states that it is for the Board to
determine whether a director is independent in
character and judgement and consider
whether there are any relationships or
circumstances that are likely to affect a
director’s judgement.
In applying the Code, the Board has
considered whether the length of service of
Paul Richardson (12 years) has compromised
his independence. He is experienced and
accomplished in his fields of expertise. In his
association with the Company he has
acquired an understanding of the Company’s
operations, its markets and the issues
determining its success. He has shown
commitment to the Company in both time and
effort. The Board does not consider his long
service as a Director to be detrimental or to
have eroded his objectivity and it should not
raise any concerns about his ability to perform
his duties.
Paul Richardson remains the WPP Group plc
representative on the Board as stated above.
Performance evaluation has shown that he
continues to have a good record of
involvement in Board-level discussions and
contributes additional help to further the
Company’s strategies. The Board considers
Paul Richardson to be independent.
The question of Non-Executive Directors’
shareholdings should also be considered
when assessing independence. Rodger
Hughes and Catherine Biner Bradley each
hold a small number of shares in the Company
as disclosed on page 45. The Board considers
that these holdings are not significant and
believes this alone should not raise questions
regarding their independence. The Board
considers that Directors owning shares in the
Company directly aligns them with the
interests of the shareholders.
Following performance evaluations for 2008
the Board has considered the independence
of its Non-Executive Directors and considers
them to be independent in both judgement
and character and that the circumstances
shown above are unlikely to affect their
respective judgements when considering
matters of the Company. Annual Report & Accounts 2008 37
Directors’ statement on corporate governance
Audit Committee
Membership is restricted to those
Non-Executive Directors deemed to be
independent by the Board and is shown on
page 32.
The Committee met on three occasions during
the year to discuss accounting, audit and
internal control matters together with reviewing
financial statements and compliance with
accounting standards and the Company’s
accounting policies. The Audit Committee is
also responsible for ensuring that a
professional and objective relationship exists
with the Company’s external auditors. The
external auditors are represented at each
meeting and may request a meeting of the
Committee without management being
present if necessary. The Audit Committee
also reviews the work of its sub-committee,
The Risk Management Committee, which
oversees the Company’s risk identification and
management system.
During the year the Committee has additionally
considered the review of internal controls and
risk management systems; has monitored the
implementation of the Company’s Disaster
Recovery Plan and has developed the
response to new and revised legislation and
regulatory requirements.
Each meeting was attended by the
full membership.
Remuneration Committee
The Committee measures the performance of
the Executive Directors and of key members
of senior management as a prelude to
recommending their annual remuneration. The
Committee is also responsible for overseeing
grants under the Company’s Co-Investment
Plan, Executive Share Option Scheme, the
Savings-Related Share Option Scheme and
the Deferred Share Plan to employees of the
Group. When required the Chairman, Lord
Bell, attends the meetings but is not actually a
member. The remuneration of the Non-
Executive Directors is recommended by the
Chairman and Finance Director and takes
account of the time spent on Board and
Committee matters. Final decisions are
made by the Board but no director takes
part in any discussion regarding his or her
own remuneration.
During the year the Committee has carried
out performance evaluations and agreed
the remuneration for the Executive Directors
for 2008.
It has reviewed and approved further grants
under the Company’s Deferred Share Plan for
senior managers and the Savings-Related
Share Option Scheme, which is open to all
staff after a qualifying period. The Committee
continues to monitor the administration of the
incentive schemes and the performance
targets that apply to each.
The Committee has also set the key
performance indicators for the individual
Executive Directors; approved a formal
expenses policy for the Directors and
approved the disclosures to shareholders in
the financial statements of the Company.
In 2008 the Committee met on three
occasions and all the members were present
at each meeting.
Nominations Committee
Membership of the Nominations Committee
is restricted to independent Non-Executive
Directors as shown on page 32. The
Committee leads the process of appointments
to the Board by evaluation of the skills,
knowledge and experience required for
a particular appointment.
The Code requires the Company to have a
formalised process for the selection and
appointment of new directors. The Board
considers that a prescriptive procedure is
inappropriate and could prove restrictive and
costly both in terms of identifying potential
candidates and the selection process itself.
The Company does not believe that it should
commit to the exclusive use of external
recruitment consultants although there may be
occasions where this method is employed.
The Committee met once during the year
to discuss the appointment of Hon Richard
Alston as a Director. All of the members
were present.
Performance evaluation
In line with the Code, the Company carries out
annual performance evaluations of the Board,
its committees and the individual Directors.
The 2008 performance evaluation took place
in early 2009. The aim of the evaluation is to
recognise the strengths and address any
weaknesses of the management process; to
ensure that the Board meets its objectives and
that effectiveness is maximised.
The Remuneration Committee, led by Rodger
Hughes, the Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director, evaluates the performance
of the Executive Directors. The Board, led by
the Chairman, is responsible for the
assessment of the performance of the Non-
Executive Directors.
The work of the Board and its Committees
together with the processes used and the
business transacted during the year is
assessed by the Board, taking into account
the specific workloads of each forum; the
knowledge and expertise of its members; and
the recommendations made to the Board
regarding specific tasks put before the
Committees concerned.
Relations with shareholders
The Company is keen to promote two-way
communications with its institutional and
private investors and responds quickly to
queries received. Lord Bell, Chairman;
Christopher Satterthwaite, Chief Executive;
and Mark Smith, Group Finance Director, are
the Company’s principal spokespersons with
investors, analysts, the press and other
interested parties.
All shareholders are sent copies of the
Company’s Annual and Interim Reports
and, where appropriate circulars and
prospectuses. The Annual and Interim
reports are also published on the Group
website, www.chime.plc.uk, together with
announcements, press releases and Company
information. This enables investors worldwide
to keep informed of the Company’s progress.
Shareholders are given at least 21 days’ notice
of the Annual General Meeting at which all
Directors are generally present and at which
questions are both invited and encouraged.
Accountability and audit
Financial reporting
A review of the businesses in the Group is
included in the Chief Executive’s Review. The
Board uses this, together with the Chairman’s
Statement and the Directors’ report on
pages 46 to 47 to present a balanced and
understandable assessment of the Company’s
position and prospects. The directors’
responsibilities for the financial statements are
described on page 48 of the Report and
Financial Statements.
Internal control
The Board has established a process for
identifying, evaluating and managing significant
risks faced by the Group. The board regularly
reviews the process, which has been in
place from the start of the year to the date
of approval of this report and which is in
accordance with revised guidance on internal
control published in October 2005 (the
Turnbull Guidance). The Board is responsible
for the Group’s system of internal control and
for reviewing its effectiveness. The control and
risk management procedures are designed to
highlight any weaknesses and/or failures in the
systems to the Board at the earliest opportunity
together with action taken and/or proposed.
Such a system is designed to manage rather
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives, and can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss. Chime Communications plc 38
Internal control (continued)
Information on the Group’s significant risks,
together with the relevant control and
monitoring procedures, is reviewed on a
monthly basis by the heads of the business
units under the guidance of a nominated
Executive Director. This information is
presented to the Executive Directors to assess
any identified risks and the overall
effectiveness of the system of internal control.
An update on all significant risk management
issues is made to the Board at each quarterly
meeting. Additionally, companies annually
complete a review of specified risk areas and
their local risk management processes under
the supervision of the trading division finance
directors, the Group Internal Auditor and the
Company Secretary. The Company also has a
sub-committee of the Audit Committee, the
Risk Management Committee, that specifically
monitors and investigates potential areas of
risk raised by the trading companies and by
the Group centralised administrative
management in areas such as Property,
Human Resources and IT.
Given the nature of the Group’s activities, the
Board recognises the risks associated with its
ability to attract, motivate and retain talented
employees. Accordingly, a significant part of
the Group’s risk management procedures are
focused in this area and the Group continues
to utilise employee benefits schemes shown
on 40 and 41 to meet this requirement.
The Group has a number of companies
including overseas businesses in Germany,
the USA and the Middle East. Control of the
overseas businesses is currently affected by
designated senior executives reporting directly
to the Board.
The Board recognises the need to ensure that
established risk management procedures and
standards are integrated into all acquired
businesses and accordingly potential areas
of non-compliance are identified during
the due diligence process and addressed
post-completion.
The internal audit function reports directly to
the Audit Committee. A review of this function
has been conducted and reported to the
Board within the annual review of the system
of internal controls. Recommended changes
to the scope and application of internal audit
procedures have been adopted and the
internal audit programme for the year has
been presented to and approved by the
Audit Committee.
The Group has a clear, written whistleblowing
policy and procedure available to all staff
regarding concerns of employees about
ethical behaviour and non-compliance with
regulatory requirements and/or the law.
The Group has material investments in a small
number of associated companies that are not
managed by the Group. Accordingly, the
Group can only influence, not control, their
management practices and therefore the
review of internal controls for these operations
is less comprehensive than that for the
Group’s managed operations.
Financial control
The financial control procedures are described
under the following five headings:
1. Financial reporting – The Group has a
comprehensive system for reporting financial
results to the Board; each trading company
prepares monthly results with a comparison
against budget. The Board reviews these for
the Group as a whole and determines
appropriate action. Towards the end of each
financial year the operating units prepare
detailed budgets for the following year.
Budgets and plans are reviewed and
necessary changes made by the Board before
being adopted formally.
2. Quality and integrity of personnel – One of
the Group’s core values is integrity; this is
regarded as vital to the maintenance of the
Group’s system of internal financial control and
is reflected in the quality and experience of the
Group’s financial staff.
3. Operating unit financial controls – Key
controls over major business risks include
reviews against performance indicators and
exception reporting. The trading companies
regularly assess their exposure to major
business risks and appropriate action is taken
both at operating and Group level in order to
ensure that risk is minimised as far as possible.
4. Computer systems – The Group’s financial
and management information is processed
by and stored on data systems. Accordingly,
the Group has established controls and
procedures over the security of data held on
computer systems. The Group has put in
place arrangements for computer processing
to continue and data to be retained in the
event of complete failure of any system.
5. Controls over central functions – A number
of the Group’s key functions, including
treasury, taxation, acquisitions and insurance
are dealt with centrally. Each of these
functions has clear and detailed procedures
and is required to report to the Board on a
regular basis; the treasury details are reported
daily to the Finance Director.
The Audit Committee and Auditors
The Audit Committee has considered reports
made to it by the executive management of
the Group, which assesses the major business
risks and the control environment against the
criteria for assessing internal financial controls
which are set out in the guidance for directors
on reporting on internal control. The Audit
Committee has reported to the Board that it
has been able to review the effectiveness of
the Group’s system of internal financial control
for the accounting year and the period to the
date of approval of the financial statements.
The Group has a policy for the employment of
the auditors for non-audit work. The auditors
work on tax issues for the Group but
any increase in fees is strictly controlled by
the Audit Committee. Any other non-audit
assignments can be awarded to the auditors
during the year but only where fees are within
Audit Committee approved limits.
Going concern basis
As required by UK company law the Directors
have considered and confirm that it is
appropriate to adopt the financial statements
on the basis that the Company and Group
have adequate resources for the foreseeable
future, as disclosed in the Finance Director’s
review. Therefore the Company and the Group
continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the financial statements.
Social responsibility
We are in the business of managing brand and
corporate reputation on behalf of clients and
the Board acknowledges that being socially
responsible is an important factor in the
management of our business.
The Board confirms that regular consideration
is given to the significance of social,
environmental and ethical (SEE) issues (as
defined by the Association of British Insurers),
and as part of our wider operational risk
framework, identifies significant risks
arising from these areas to short-term and
long-term value.
The Group also considers corporate
responsibility to be an area of business
opportunity. Our subsidiary, Corporate
Citizenship, provides not only a focus for our
investment in this field but provides the Group
with specialist expertise.
The Board believes that corporate
responsibility should underpin everything
that we do. The Group is therefore committed
to demonstrating the importance of this, not
only in our work for clients but in our own
working practices.
Directors’ statement on corporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2008 39
The Company measures the performance of
each of its businesses against a benchmark of
minimum corporate responsibility standards.
The standards are designed to be stretching
and, as such, encourage continual
improvement in this important area.
We continue to report our corporate
responsibility performance to our stakeholders
via our website and printed media.
These detail not only the principles of our
approach but also give examples of the
initiatives undertaken.
The Company is listed on the FTSE4Good
Index, which evaluates companies
performance on a number of corporate
responsibility criteria.
Environment
The business of Chime Communications is
primarily in the UK and delivers services to
clients based on image, ideas, research and
content. As such, our direct and indirect
impact on the environment is minimal and
considered low-risk.
However, we acknowledge that our
customers, staff and other stakeholders have
an interest in our impact on the environment
and as such we have committed to monitor
and improve our environmental performance
where possible. We became Carbon Neutral
at the start of 2007. In the first year we
reduced our emissions by 37%, winning an
award from Business in the Community in the
process. In 2008, our aim was to achieve
further reductions (our target was 5%) and
embed the new behaviour and data collection
processes into our working practices. Our
emissions will be audited against our target in
March by the Carbon Neutral Company and
the Edinburgh Centre for Carbon Management
and we are confident of meeting our target.
Our companies regularly incorporate our
environmental performance in business
presentations as we believe this is an important
consideration when evaluating reputation.
We continue to work with our customers and
our supply chain in order to ensure that our
impact is minimised and that best practice
is achieved.
Health and safety
The Board believes that our people are our
most important asset. Our businesses do not
include any industrial or manufacturing
processes and our staff are mainly office-
based. As such, risk of accidents is low.
We do acknowledge that we may expose our
staff to additional areas of risk which, whilst
not unique to Chime (for example, business
travel, event organisation and lone or remote
working), do require further scrutiny, mitigation
and procedural guidance in order to maximise
the wellbeing of our staff.
In 2008, the Board commissioned a review of
our health and safety systems by Safety
Exchange Ltd, who provide the Group with
specialist expertise in this area. The findings
confirmed that our procedures were
appropriate but that these should be
formalised and publicised within the Group
more cohesively. Enhancements were
deployed to improve the awareness and the
assessment of risks where they do arise in our
day-to-day business. The revised policy and
procedures were published to staff in
September 2008.
Employee issues
As a people business, our reputation depends
on the skills, knowledge and integrity of our
people. Chime has fostered an entrepreneurial
culture and each of our businesses is
encouraged to create a stimulating, rewarding
and inspiring work environment for our people.
Our people continue to be our main priority.
We recognise that central oversight on human
resources issues is beneficial and continually
review the employment standards across the
Group as part of the general management and
risk identification processes.
In order to attract and retain talented staff we
continue to operate our Executive Share
Option and Savings-Related Share Option
Schemes together with our Deferred Share
Plan. We also continue to review our incentive
schemes on an ongoing basis.
Ethics
The Group meets all relevant laws, regulations
and codes of practice issued by any relevant
Government or appropriate regulator. We
ensure that all our people are aware and
comply with such standards. In addition,
we recognise that integrity is essential to
the maintenance of our reputation in the
marketplace. As part of our regular review
process, issues of conduct are identified,
reviewed and the Board is alerted as
appropriate. We utilise our published Code
of Conduct which formalises the values,
behaviour and ethical standards expected
of Chime employees. We maintain our
whistleblowing policy and procedure and
ensure that our published standards of
behaviour are communicated to both new
and existing staff.
Compliance statement
Throughout the year ended 31 December
2008 the Company has been in compliance
with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the
June 2006 FRC Combined Code on
Corporate Governance, except for Code A.4.6
– Processes used by the Nominations
Committee (the reason for non-compliance
is shown on page 37); and B.1.4 – Executive
Directors’ remuneration for external non-
executive directorships is not stated, as
this information is available in the financial
statements of the companies concerned.
Approved by the Board of Directors and
signed on behalf of the Board
Robert Davison, Secretary
11 March 2009
Directors’ statement on corporate governance Directors’ remuneration report
Chime Communications plc 40
Directors’ remuneration report
Group policy on the remuneration of
directors and employees
This report has been prepared in accordance
with Schedule 7A to the Companies Act
1985. The report also meets the relevant
requirements of the Listing Rules of the
Financial Services Authority and describes
how the Board has applied the Principles of
Good Governance relating to directors’
remuneration. As required by the Act, a
resolution to approve this report will be
proposed at the Annual General Meeting
of the Company at which the financial
statements will be approved.
The Act requires the auditors to report to the
Company’s members on the ‘auditable part’
of the Directors’ remuneration report and
to state whether in their opinion that part of
the report has been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
The report has therefore been divided into
separate sections for audited and unaudited
information.
Unaudited information
Remuneration Committee
The composition, chairmanship and activities
of the Remuneration Committee are set out on
pages 32 and 37. The members of the
Committee receive remuneration as set out in
this report. They abstain from participating
where their own interests are concerned and
have no involvement in the day-to-day
management of the Group’s operations. Other
Directors attend meeting by invitation only but
this would not include when matters relating to
their own remuneration arrangements are
discussed. In addition to the current members
of the Committee Julian Seymour (resigned
31 December 2007) was a member when the
Co-Investment Plan, as detailed later, was
approved by the Committee.
During the financial period under review, the
Remuneration Committee sought the
assistance of the Chairman and Finance
Director relating to Directors’ performance
and remuneration. The Committee used
Towers Perrin to provide advice primarily
on competitive market levels and on the
performance-related elements of the Executive
Directors’ remuneration. Towers Perrin were
not contracted to supply any other services
during 2008. The Remuneration Committee
also approved the grant of share options
under the Savings-Related Share Option
Scheme, the grant of shares under the
Deferred Share Plan and they approved an
expenses policy for Executive Directors.
The Committee’s terms of reference are
available on request from the Company
Secretary and will be available for inspection
at the forthcoming AGM.
Remuneration policy
The Group is committed to attracting and
retaining high-quality staff. Remuneration is set
at levels commensurate with competing firms
in the same industry and is monitored on a
regular basis. The performance measurement
of the Executive Directors and key senior
management and the determination of their
annual remuneration packages are undertaken
by the Committee. More generally, the
Committee reviews executive remuneration
arrangements regularly to ensure that they
remain effective, competitive and appropriate
to the Group’s circumstances and prospects,
and monitors incentive award levels and
consequent company liabilities. It also
reviews the awards of shares made under
the Deferred Share Plan and of options over
shares under the Executive and Savings-
Related Share Options schemes in terms of
their effect on dilution limits.
Three of the four Executive Directors spend a
large proportion of their time on fee-earning
client work. Their remuneration packages are
therefore based on the appropriate market
rate for two different functions: one is the
management of the Group in the executive
roles of Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Chief
Executive and the other is as client handlers
and new business winners. Looked at in those
terms, their remuneration is considered to be
in line with market rates. The Committee
places considerable emphasis on the
performance-linked elements of their
remuneration, i.e. Annual Bonus, Deferred
Share Incentives and Long-Term Incentives.
Executive Directors are entitled to accept
external appointments outside the Company
providing that the Chairman’s permission is
sought and confirmed by the Board.
The fees payable to the Non-Executive
Directors represent compensation in
connection with Board and Committee
meetings and, where appropriate, for devoting
additional time and expertise for the benefit of
the Group in a wider capacity. Non-Executive
Directors do not participate in the Company’s
pension or share option or other incentive
plans. The Board considers that the Non-
Executive Directors’ remuneration conforms
with the requirements of the Combined Code.
This Report sets out the Group’s
Remuneration policies for the Directors for
the year ended 31 December 2008. These
policies are likely to continue to apply in
future years, unless there are specific reasons
for change.
Remuneration packages
In 2008 there were five main elements of
the remuneration packages for Executive
Directors:
• basic annual salary and benefits;
• annual bonus payments which cannot
exceed 50% of salary;
• deferred share incentives;
• long-term incentive plans; and
• pension arrangements.
Basic annual salary and benefits
In setting salary levels, the Remuneration
Committee considers the experience and
responsibility of the Executive Directors and
their personal performance during the previous
year. The Committee also takes account of
salary levels within other companies of a
similar size and nature, as well as the rates of
increases for other employees within the
Group. The Remuneration Committee reviews
salaries with effect from January each year.
The benefits provided by the Group to the
Executive Directors consist principally of
pension contributions, a car or car allowance
and private medical insurance.
With the exception of the Chief Executive,
no increases in salary were awarded to the
Executive Directors in either 2007 or 2008
consistent with greater emphasis on
incentivising performance through bonuses.
Annual bonus
The Executive Directors’ annual bonus
arrangements are focused on the achievement
of the Group’s short-term financial objectives.
The annual bonus allocation is capped at a
maximum of 50% of salary for the Executive
Directors, of this up to 25% of the relevant
Director’s salary may be payable if the
Company meets the profit targets set by the
Board. A further maximum of 25% may be
paid to each Executive Director, based on key
performance indicators linked to the Group’s
stated strategy and tailored to their individual
roles. Some of these are non-financial. The
Remuneration Committee reviews the specific
key performance indicators for each director
and their overall performance both against
those indicators and generally. Based on its
assessment, the Committee determines what,
if any, further bonus is payable. The
Committee believes the performance metrics
chosen align with shareholder value creation.
Bonus payments are not pensionable. Directors’ remuneration report
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 41
For 2008, the key performance indicators
included:
• Growth in operating profit margin
• Growth in income from international work
• Growth in number and value of shared
clients
• Growth in average fee per client
• Revenue generation
• Client retention
• Cash management and conversion
• Quality of internal control
• Management of Chime’s reputation
The Committee considered the performance
of the Directors in February 2009. The profit
targets set by the Board have been met in a
more challenging market than was anticipated
when they were set and performance
compares favourably with that of competitors.
The Committee has also assessed that each
of the Directors has achieved or exceeded
their individual key performance indicators
and, as a result, believes that such
exceptional performance fully justifies the
maximum bonus award.
The resultant bonuses for 2008 are shown in
the remuneration table on page 45.
Deferred Share Plan
During 2006 the Company introduced a
Deferred Share Plan (the Plan). Under the Plan
restricted rights over existing Chime
Communications shares are granted to
Executive Board Directors, subsidiary Board
Directors and senior employees of the Group.
A participant of the Plan must remain
employed by the Group for a period of three
years after the date of grant for the shares to
vest with the employee. There are no other
performance criteria attached to the restricted
shares. The plan aims to encourage the
retention of key employees. All grants under
the Plan are approved by the Remuneration
Committee. The grants under the scheme to
date have been relatively modest. The
Deferred Share Plan replaced the Executive
Share Option Scheme.
The Executive Directors received grants under
the Plan in 2006, but will receive no further
awards under this Plan for the duration of
the Co-Investment Plan. Details of their
participation are shown in the table on page 44.
Co-Investment Plan
In 2006 shareholder approval was granted to
introduce a Co-Investment Plan (CIP). The CIP
was established to align the interests of the
Company’s most senior executives to the
three-year business plan put in place during
2006. Participation in the plan is dependent
upon the commitment by the executive to
maintain an investment in the Company’s
shares until the end of the performance
period, over shares with an initial value up to
50% of salary capped at a total of £175,000
per participant. In return for this commitment
the executive is granted an award over a
maximum of five times as many matching
shares. The number of matching shares that
vest, if any, are dependent upon the
achievement of performance targets measured
over a four-year performance period.
50% of the matching shares are tied to the
aggregate reported earnings per share (EPS)
and 50% are tied to total shareholder return
(TSR) relative to a peer group of other media
companies. The comparator group for awards
in 2006 and 2007 was ITE Group, Wilmington
Group, M&C Saatchi, Tarsus Group, Next
Fifteen Communications, Cello Group,
Huntsworth, Centaur Media, Future, Chrysalis
Group, Bloomsbury Publishing, Creston,
Media Square and Scottish Media Group.
The maximum award is for achieving EPS
growth equivalent to 26% per annum
compounded and a TSR ranking in the top
15% of the comparator group. In addition to
the above requirements the Remuneration
Committee must be satisfied as to the
underlying financial performance of the
Company. The Executive Directors will receive
no further awards under any of the Company’s
long-term incentive schemes for the duration
of this scheme.
Relative TSR is recognised as one of the best
indicators of whether a shareholder has
achieved a good return on investing in the
Group relative to its peer group. In addition, an
EPS performance condition provides an
appropriate measure of the Group’s underlying
financial performance.
The table on page 45 shows the maximum
number of shares that will vest with the
Executive Directors should the performance
targets be met in full.
Under the rules of the CIP , the Remuneration
Committee has the authority to make
adjustments to the published EPS if events
happen that make it fair and reasonable to
do so.
In 2007 it was agreed that an adjustment
would be made going forward to the
published EPS relating to the amortisation
of a long-term client contract of Fast Track,
a business acquired in that year. In the view
of the Remuneration Committee this is
an accounting treatment which was not
anticipated when the plan was established
and is not a current trading item. This
adjustment represents only 2% of EPS.
Share Option schemes
Previously the Company has operated an
Executive Share Option Scheme for Executive
Directors, subsidiary Board directors and
senior employees. All executive options
granted from November 1997 (other than
special executive options) are subject to the
Group achieving during the period of grant, an
average total shareholder return on the shares
for the preceding three years which exceeds
the average FTSE 100 TSR for the same
period and a percentage growth in EPS which
is at least equal to the percentage growth in
the Retail Price Index plus 6% over three
years.The exercise price of the options
granted under the above scheme is equal to
the market value of the company’s shares at
the time when the options were granted.
Executive share options are only expected to
be granted in future if there is a contractual
commitment or in exceptional circumstances.
The Company also operates a Savings-
Related Share Option Scheme which is open
to all employees after an initial qualifying
period of employment.
Pensions
Pension contributions on behalf of the
Executive Directors are paid by the Company
to the Group’s money purchase pension
scheme or to a personal pension scheme up
to the value of 20% of their basic salary.
Directors’ contracts
The Company’s policy is that Executive
Directors should normally be employed on
rolling contracts which may be terminated by
the Company giving no more than 12 months
notice and which otherwise expire on
retirement, currently at age 65. In December
2006 the Company agreed a new service
contract with Lord Bell in order that he
may continue as a director beyond age 65.
All Executive Directors and employees have
rolling contracts of employment with a notice
period that does not exceed 12 months.
Any compensation payable on early
termination of employment contracts would
be in line with contractual and statutory
requirements. Chime Communications plc 42
Chime Communications Total Shareholder Return relative to
FTSE 100 and FTSE All-Share Media Sector
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
Chime Communications – Total Return Index
FTSE All Share Media £ – Total Return Index
FTSE 100 Total Return Index
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Source: Thomson Datastream
Performance graph
This graph shows the Company’s performance
measured by total shareholder return,
compared with the performance of the FTSE.
All-Share Media Index, also measured by total
shareholder return. The FTSE All-Share Media
Index has been chosen as the most suitable
comparator as it is the general market index in
which the Group appears.
The table below summarises key details in respect of each Director’s contract.
Years to Company Executive
Contract expected notice notice
date retirement period period
Executive Directors
Lord Bell 7 December 2006 2 12 months 12 months
Piers Pottinger 10 May 1994 10 12 months 12 months
Christopher Satterthwaite 6 December 2002 12 12 months 12 months
Mark Smith 10 May 1994 11 12 months 12 months
Date of initial Date of last Notice
appointment re-election period
Non-Executive Directors
Rodger Hughes 1 July 2007 May 2008 3 months
Hon. Richard Alston 2 July 2008 – 3 months
Catherine Biner Bradley 11 September 2001 June 2006 3 months
Paul Richardson 3 December 1998 May 2008 Linked to WPP shareholding
Dave Allen (resigned 16 December 2008) 3 December 2001 May 2008 Linked to WPP shareholding
Director appointments are subject to Board approval and election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following appointment and,
thereafter, re-election by rotation every three years.
There are no provisions for compensation payments on early termination in the Non-Executive Directors’ Terms and Conditions of Appointment.
Hon. Richard Alston was appointed by the Board in July 2008 and is retiring in accordance with Article 80 and the requirements of the Code.
He is proposed as a Director at the Company’s Annual General Meeting.
Directors’ remuneration report Annual Report & Accounts 2008 43
Audited information
Directors’ emoluments
Emoluments Total Total
Salary excl. pension Pension 31 December 31 December
and fees Benefits Bonuses contributions contributions 2008 2007
££ £££ £ £
Executive Directors
Lord Bell* 615,000 109,464 307,500 1,031,964 123,000 1,154,964 966,952
Piers Pottinger 401,000 30,192 100,250 531,442 80,200 611,642 569,906
Christopher Satterthwaite 400,000 21,017 200,000 621,017 70,000 691,017 518,625
Mark Smith 250,000 28,418 125,000 403,418 50,000 453,418 384,519
Non-Executive Directors
Rodger Hughes 40,000 –– 40,000 – 40,000 20,000
Hon. Richard Alston (appointed 2 July 2008) 12,500 –– 12,500 – 12,500 –
Catherine Biner Bradley 25,000 –– 25,000 – 25,000 17,500
Paul Richardson –– –– – – –
Julian Seymour (resigned 31 December 2007) –– –– – – 30,000
Dave Allen (resigned 16 December 2008) –– –– – –
Totals 1,743,500 189,091 732,750 2,665,341 323,200 2,988,541 2,507,502
*Chairman and highest paid Director
The sums paid to Julian Seymour were in respect of consultancy fees.
The pension contributions made by the Company are in respect of money purchase schemes. Contributions in respect of Lord Bell, Piers Pottinger,
Mark Smith and Christopher Satterthwaite for the year ended 31 December 2007 were £123,000, £80,200, £50,000 and £70,000 respectively.
Piers Pottinger and Mark Smith were members of the Group’s defined contribution scheme in 2007.
Directors’ remuneration report Directors’ share options, restricted shares and matching shares
The following unexercised options over shares were held by directors:
Executive Share Option Scheme
1 January 2008 Post-share 31 December Date from
(or on consolidation 2008 (or on Exercise which
Directors appointment) 14 May 2008 Lapsed resignation) price exercisable Expiry date
Lord Bell 100,000 20,000 – 20,000 £10.45 Nov 2003 Nov 2010
Lord Bell 306,452 61,290 – 61,290 £0.775 Apr 2006 Apr 2013
Piers Pottinger 100,000 20,000 – 20,000 £10.45 Nov 2003 Nov 2010
Christopher Satterthwaite 33,333 6,667 – 6,667 £4.50 Oct 2002 Oct 2009
Christopher Satterthwaite 500,000 100,000 – 100,000 £0.775 Apr 2006 Apr 2013
Mark Smith 100,000 20,000 – 20,000 £10.45 Nov 2003 Nov 2010
On 14 May 2008 the Group carried out a 1 for 5 share consolidation, see note 29 to the accounts on page 77.
Savings-Related Share Option Scheme
1 January 2008 Post-share 31 December Date from
(or on consolidation 2008 (or on Exercise which
Directors appointment) 14 May 2008 Surrendered resignation) price exercisable Expiry date
Christopher Satterthwaite 20,437 4,087 – 4,087 £1.60 July 2009 Dec 2009
Mark Smith 20,437 4,087 (4,087) – £1.60 July 2009 Dec 2009
The market price of the shares at 31 December 2008 was 51.5p and the range during 2008 was 50p to 183.75p (share price has been
recalculated to take into account the share consolidation on 14 May 2008, see note 29.
There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for share options during the financial year.
Deferred Share Plan
The following restricted shares were held by directors:
1 January 2008 Post-share 31 December
(or on consolidation 2008 (or on
Directors appointment) 14 May 2008 Awarded resignation) Award date Vesting date
Lord Bell 214,500 42,900 – 42,900 25 May 2006 25 May 2009
Piers Pottinger 139,800 27,960 – 27,960 25 May 2006 25 May 2009
Christopher Satterthwaite 122,000 24,400 – 24,400 25 May 2006 25 May 2009
Mark Smith 73,200 14,640 – 14,640 25 May 2006 25 May 2009
These shares are included as part of the beneficial holdings in the table on page 45.
Chime Communications plc 44
Directors’ remuneration report Co-investment Plan – matching shares
The following matching shares were held by directors:
1 January 2008 Post-share 31 December
(or on consolidation 2008 (or on
Directors appointment) 14 May 2008 Awarded resignation) Award date Vesting date
Lord Bell 2,092,180 418,435 – 418,435 18 September 2006 September 2010
Piers Pottinger 2,302,630 460,525 – 460,525 18 September 2006 September 2010
Christopher Satterthwaite 2,247,020 449,400 – 449,400 18 September 2006 September 2010
Mark Smith 1,632,020 326,400 – 326,400 18 September 2006 September 2010
Directors interests in the shares of Chime Communications plc
The Directors of the Company, all of whom were directors for the whole year, unless otherwise indicated, and their interests in the Company at
31 December 2008, or on date of resignation, and at 1 January 2008 or date of appointment were:
Beneficial holdings Share options
1 January 2008 Post-share 31 December 1 January 2008 Post-share 31 December
(or date of consolidation 2008 (or date of (or date of consolidation 2008 (or date of
appointment) 14 May 2008 resignation) appointment) 14 May 2008 resignation)
Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary
Shares Shares Shares Shares Shares Shares
Directors of 5p each of 25p each of 25p each of 5p each of 25p each of 25p each
Lord Bell 1,895,914 379,182 419,182 406,452 81,290 81,290
Piers Pottinger 2,145,600 429,120 429,120 100,000 20,000 20,000
Christopher Satterthwaite 449,404 89,880 118,451 553,770 110,753 110,754
Mark Smith 540,918 108,183 153,194 120,437 24,087 20,000
Rodger Hughes 60,265 12,053 12,053 –– –
Dave Allen (resigned 16 December 2008) –– –– –
Hon. Richard Alston (appointed 2 July 2008) –– –– ––
Catherine Biner Bradley 39,514 7,903 7,903 –– –
Paul Richardson –– –– ––
Lord Bell also held a non-beneficial interest in 169,900 ordinary shares at 1 January 2008 and at 31 December 2008. Christopher Satterthwaite
also held a non-beneficial interest in 118 ordinary shares at 1 January 2008 and at 31 December 2008.
Approval
This report was approved
by the Board of Directors
and signed on its behalf by
Robert Davison, Secretary
11 March 2009
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 45
Directors’ remuneration report Directors’ report
The Directors present their annual report and
the audited financial statements for the year
ended 31 December 2008.
Business review
The principal business of the Group is
providing public relations, advertising, sports
marketing, market research, direct marketing,
design and event management consultancy.
A review of the performance and development
of the Group’s business during the year, its
position at the year end and its prospects is
set out in the Chairman’s statement on pages
4 and 5 and Finance Director’s report on
pages 30 and 31. The principal risks and
uncertainties facing the Group, as well as the
Group’s policies for managing capital can be
found within note 43 of the accounts on page
86 and within the section headed internal
control within the Directors’ statement on
corporate governance on page 36.
The Group’s use of financial instruments is set
out in note 43 of the financial statements.
The Group uses the following key performance
indicators to measure progress towards
objectives.
2008 2007
Organic operating
income growth 9% 11%
Organic profit growth 10% 13%
(Organic growth excludes
acquisitions in 2007
and 2008)
Operating profit margin 16.2% 16.3%
Earnings per share 19.87p 17.15p
Average fee income
per client £81,000 £70,000
Average income
per employee £111,000 £105,000
Staff costs/operating
income 61.1% 58.5%
Net cash £6,324,000 £812,000
Chime Communications plc 46
Results and dividends
The Group’s income statement is set out on
page 50 and shows a profit before tax for the
year to 31 December 2008 of £16,339,000
(2007 – £13,762,000). The Directors
recommend the payment of a final dividend
of 3.18p per ordinary share to be paid on
19 June 2009 to the ordinary shareholders on
the register on 29 May 2009, which together
with the interim dividend paid on 15 October
2008 makes a total of 4.72p per share for the
year (2007 – 3.50p).
Directors and their interests
The Directors’ interests in the shares of Chime
Communications plc are disclosed as part of
the Report of the Board to the Shareholders
on Directors’ Remuneration on page 40. Details
relating to Directors’ share options are also
given as part of the Report of the Board to the
Shareholders on Directors’ Remuneration.
There has been no change in the interests of
the Directors between 31 December 2008 and
10 March 2008.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting,
Lord Bell, Christopher Satterthwaite and
Catherine Biner Bradley are due to retire by
rotation and offer themselves for re-election.
Paul Richardson will retire and offer himself for
re-election at the Annual General Meeting as
he has been a Non-Executive Director for
more than nine years.
Hon. Richard Alston was appointed as a
Director by the Board on 2 July 2008 and has
been proposed for election at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting.
Other than described in the Report of the
Board to the Shareholders on Directors’
Remuneration no Director of the Company
has, or had during the year, any interests
in the shares of other Group companies or
in any transactions which were unusual in their
nature or were significant to the Company’s
business.
Donations
During the year the group donated £36,567
(2007 – £39,608) for charitable purposes.
The Group’s policy is not to make direct
donations to support political parties.
However, the nature of the Group’s work
is such that to support its commercial
activities, certain companies within the Group
may need to attend or sponsor events which
are organised by political parties or other
political organisations, for which a charge is
made. In addition, the Group may invite clients
and prospective clients to attend events which
fall within the meaning of the Companies Act
2006 provisions. The Companies Act 2006
defines “political party”, “political organisation”,
“political donation” and “political expenditure”
widely and as a result, it is possible that
political organisations may include bodies
concerned with matters such as policy review
and law reform, or the representation of
the business community or sections of it,
or the representation of other communities or
special interest groups.
During the year and adopting this wider
definition, the Group made payments that
might be deemed to be political donations
totalling £22,000 to various organisations and
individuals principally connected with the
Conservative Party.
Directors’ report Employee involvement
The Group operates a policy of informing all
employees on a regular basis of the Group’s
financial performance. In addition, the Group’s
Savings-Related Share Option Scheme,
Performance-Related Pay and bonus schemes
encourages employees at all levels to
contribute to the achievement of the Group’s
short- and long-term goals.
Employment of disabled people
The Group gives full and fair consideration to
all applications for employment made by
disabled people, having regard to their
particular aptitudes and abilities. Opportunities
for training, career development and
promotion do not disadvantage these
employees.
Acquisition of the Company’s
own shares
At the end of the year, the Directors had
authority, under the shareholders’ resolution
issued on 14 May 2008, to purchase
through the market 5,327,504 of the
Company’s own ordinary shares at prices
not less than 25p per ordinary share and not
more than 5% above the average of the
middle market quotations as derived from
the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
This authority will last until the conclusion of
the next Annual General Meeting.
Directors’ report
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 47
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Substantial interests
At 10 March 2009 the following interests, other
than those of the Directors set out above, in
3% or more of the issued ordinary share
capital had been notified to the Company:
Number of % of
ordinary ordinary
shares share capital
WPP Group Plc 11,036,718 19.34
Fidelity Investments 6,734,919 11.80
Aberforth Partners 4,534,000 7.95
JP Morgan Asset
Management 1,747,339 3.06
Creditor payment terms
The Group’s policy on suppliers is that they will
be paid in accordance with agreed terms and
conditions of trade on a regular basis.
The number of days outstanding between
receipt of invoices and date of payment,
calculated by reference to the amount owed to
trade creditors at the year end as a proportion
of the amounts invoiced by suppliers during
the year, was 38 days in aggregate for the
Group (2007 – 31). The Company did not
have any trade creditors at 31 December 2008
or 2007.
Auditors
Each of the Directors at the date of approval
of this report confirms that:
• so far as the Director is aware, there is no
relevant audit information of which the
Company’s auditors are unaware; and
• the Director has taken all the steps that
he/she ought to have taken as a director to
make himself/herself aware of any relevant
audit information and to establish that the
Company’s auditors are aware of that
information.
This confirmation is given and should be
interpreted in accordance with the provisions
of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
On 1 December 2008, Deloitte & Touche LLP
changed its name to Deloitte LLP . Deloitte LLP
has expressed its willingness to continue in
office as Auditors and a resolution to reappoint
it will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors and
signed on behalf of the Board
Robert Davison, Secretary
11 March 2009 Chime Communications plc 48
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing
the Annual Report, Directors’ Remuneration
Report and the financial statements
in accordance with applicable law
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to
prepare financial statements for each
financial year. The Directors are required by
the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group
financial statements under IFRSs (IFRSs) as
adopted by the European Union. The Group
financial statements are also required by law
to be properly prepared in accordance with
the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires
that IFRS financial statements present fairly
for each financial year the Company’s
financial position, financial performance and
cash flows. This requires the faithful
representation of the effects of transactions,
other events and conditions in accordance
with the definitions and recognition criteria
for assets, liabilities, income and expenses
set out in the International Accounting
Standards Board’s ‘Framework for the
preparation and presentation of financial
statements’. In virtually all circumstances,
a fair presentation will be achieved by
compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are also required to:
• properly select and apply accounting
policies;
• present information, including accounting
policies, in a manner that provides relevant,
reliable, comparable and understandable
information; and
• provide additional disclosures when
compliance with the specific requirements
in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users
to understand the impact of particular
transactions, other events and conditions
on the entity’s financial position and
financial performance.
The Directors have elected to prepare the
parent company financial statements in
accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice (United
Kingdom Accounting Standards and
applicable law). The parent company
financial statements are required by law to
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs
of the Company. In preparing these financial
statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then
apply them consistently;
• make judgments and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable UK Accounting
Standards have been followed, subject to
any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the
going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping
proper accounting records that disclose with
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and enable them to
ensure that the parent company financial
statements comply with the Companies Act
1985. They are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of the Company and
hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other
irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the
maintenance and integrity of the corporate
and financial information included on the
Company’s website. Legislation in the United
Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities Independent auditors’ report to the members of
Chime Communications plc
We have audited the Group financial
statements of Chime Communications plc for
the year ended 31 December 2008 which
comprise the consolidated income statement,
the consolidated statement of recognised
income and expense, the consolidated
balance sheet and the consolidated cash flow
statement and the related notes 1 to 43.
These Group financial statements have been
prepared under the accounting policies set out
therein. We have also audited the information
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is
described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the parent
company financial statements of Chime
Communications plc for the year ended 31
December 2008.
This report is made solely to the Company’s
members, as a body, in accordance with
section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our
audit work has been undertaken so that we
might state to the Company’s members those
matters we are required to state to them in
an auditors’ report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone
other than the Company and the Company’s
members as a body, for our audit work, for
this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors
and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the
Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration
Report and the Group financial statements
in accordance with applicable law and
International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union
are set out in the Statement of Directors’
Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial
statements in accordance with relevant legal
and regulatory requirements and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether
the Group financial statements give a true and
fair view, whether the Group financial
statements have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether
the part of the Directors’ remuneration report
described as having been audited has been
properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985. We also report to you
whether in our opinion the information given in
the Directors’ Report is consistent with the
Group financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion,
we have not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit, or if
information specified by law regarding
director’s remuneration and other transactions
is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance
Statement reflects the Company’s compliance
with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined
Code specified for our review by the Listing
Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and
we report if it does not. We are not required to
consider whether the Board’s statements on
internal control cover all risks and controls, or
form an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Group’s corporate governance procedures or
its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the
Annual Report as described in the contents
section and consider whether it is consistent
with the audited Group financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report
if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies
with the Group financial statements. Our
responsibilities do not extend to any further
information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices
Board. An audit includes examination, on a
test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the Group financial
statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited. It also
includes an assessment of the significant
estimates and judgements made by the
Directors in the preparation of the Group
financial statements, and of whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the
Group’s circumstances, consistently applied
and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to
obtain all the information and explanations
which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give
reasonable assurance that the Group financial
statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited are free
from material misstatement, whether caused
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming
our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information
in the Group financial statements and the
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report
to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the Group financial statements give a true
and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs
as adopted by the European Union,
of the state of the Group’s affairs as at
31 December 2008 and of its profit for the
year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been
properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation;
• the part of the Directors’ remuneration
report described as having been audited
has been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985; and
• the information given in the Directors’
Report is consistent with the Group
financial statements.
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants
and Registered Auditors
London, United Kingdom
11 March 2009
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Chime Communications plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 49 Consolidated income statement
Year ended 31 December 2008
Consolidated income statement
Chime Communications plc 50
2008 2007
Note £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Revenue 2,3 277,394 206,589
Cost of sales (165,304) (110,080)
Operating income 112,090 96,509
Operating expenses (93,846) (80,605)
Amortisation of intangibles (134) (159)
Operating profit 5 18,110 15,745
Share of results of associates 17 186 (73)
Investment income 7 456 214
Finance costs 8 (1,393) (938)
Finance cost of deferred consideration 8 (1,020) (1,186)
Profit before tax 16,339 13,762
Tax 9 (5,164) (4,409)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 11,175 9,353
Discontinued operations
Loss for the year from discontinued operations 10 – (61)
Loss for the year from sale of associate – (140)
Profit for the year 11,175 9,152
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 10,783 8,617
Minority interest 392 535
11,175 9,152
Earnings per share (as restated)
From continuing operations
Basic 12 19.87p 17.15p
Diluted 12 19.59p 16.60p
From continuing and discontinued operations
Basic 12 19.87p 16.76p
Diluted 12 19.59p 16.22p Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
Year ended 31 December 2008
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Loss on revaluation of available for sale investments (113) (23)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 1,866 391
Net income recognised directly in equity 1,753 368
Profit for the year 11,175 9,152
Total recognised income and expense for the year 12,928 9,520
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 12,536 8,985
Minority interests 392 535
12,928 9,520
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 51
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 2008 2007
Note £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 13 113,086 109,909
Other intangible assets 14 805 762
Property, plant and equipment 15 4,589 4,425
Investments in associates 17 858 488
Other investments 18 350 350
Available for sale investments 19 113 227
Due from deferred consideration 20 551 568
Deferred tax asset 21 829 1,191
121,181 117,920
Current assets
Work in progress 22 2,019 1,560
Trade and other receivables 23 47,705 42,641
Cash and cash equivalents 24 6,804 10,196
56,528 54,397
Total assets 177,709 172,317
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 25 (69,536) (58,574)
Current tax liabilities 9 (2,706) (2,548)
Obligations under finance leases 26 (48) (49)
Short-term provisions 28 (388) (16,335)
(72,678) (77,506)
Net current liabilities (16,150) (23,109)
Non-current liabilities
Bank loans 27 – (8,375)
Long-term provisions 28 (16,524) (12,406)
Obligations under finance leases 26 (16) (53)
(16,540) (20,834)
Total liabilities (89,218) (98,340)
Net assets 88,491 73,977
Equity
Share capital 29 14,264 13,319
Share premium account 30 37,121 32,217
Own shares 31 (4,952) (4,381)
Equity reserves 32 32,385 32,385
Translation reserve 33 2,012 146
Accumulated profits/(losses) 34 8,731 (612)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 35 89,561 73,074
Written put options over minority interests 28 (2,000) –
Minority interest 930 903
Total equity 88,491 73,977
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 11 March 2009. They were signed on its behalf by:
Mark Smith, Director
Consolidated balance sheet
31 December 2008
Consolidated balance sheet
Chime Communications plc 52 Consolidated cash flow statement
Year ended 31 December 2008
2008 2007
Note £’000 £’000
Net cash from operating activities 36 21,277 15,200
Investing activities
Interest received 330 152
Dividends received from investments 126 63
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 39 60
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (2,021) (1,784)
Purchases of other intangible assets (207) (66)
Acquisition of investment in an associate 17 (117) –
Loans granted to associates (59) (178)
Acquisition of subsidiaries 37 (10,728) (11,536)
Deferred consideration received 20 17 –
Net cash used in investing activities (12,620) (13,289)
Financing activities
Dividend paid (2,219) (1,624)
Dividends paid to minorities (366) (113)
(Repayments of)/increases in borrowings (8,375) 5,447
Repayments of loan notes (480) (1,333)
Repayments of obligations under finance leases (38) (112)
Proceeds on issue of ordinary share capital – 328
Purchase of own shares (571) (960)
Net cash (used in)/from financing activities (12,049) 1,633
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (3,392) 3,544
Net funds at beginning of year 10,196 6,652
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 6,804 10,196
Consolidated cash flow statement
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 53 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2008
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Chime Communications plc 54
1. General information
Chime Communications plc is a Company incorporated in Great Britain under the Companies Act 1985. The address of the registered office is
No. 14 Curzon Street, London, W1J 5HN, United Kingdom. The nature of the Group’s operations consist principally of public relations, advertising,
sports marketing, market research, direct marketing design and event management consultancy.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group
operates. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
2. Significant accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. The financial statements have also
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments that are carried at fair value in
accordance with the accounting policies set out below. In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management is required to
make judgements, estimates and assumptions that may affect the financial statements. Management believes that the judgements made in the
preparation of the financial statements are reasonable. However, actual outcomes may differ from those anticipated. The most significant areas
where such judgements have been necessary are revenue recognition, goodwill, calculation of deferred consideration and accounting for onerous
lease provisions. Where judgement has been applied, the key factors taken into consideration are disclosed in the appropriate note in these
financial statements.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries)
made up to 31 December each year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an
investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition. Any
excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of
acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited to the income statement in the period
of acquisition. The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minority’s proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of
acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used
by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Investments in associates
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation
in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
The results, assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting except when
classified as held for sale. Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Group’s
share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments. Losses of the associates in excess of the
Group’s interest in those associates are not recognised, unless the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligation or made payments on behalf
of the associate.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of
acquisition is recognised as goodwill and is included in the carrying value of the investment. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the
Group’s share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited in the
income statement in the period of acquisition.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest
in the relevant associate.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets,
liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised in the income statement and is not
subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary or associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal. Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested
for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in
determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect of earn-outs are based on the Directors’ best estimates of future obligations, which are
dependent on future performance of the interests acquired and assume the operating companies improve profits in line with Directors’ estimates
and are included in liabilities greater or less than one year as appropriate. When earn-outs are to be settled in cash or share consideration, the fair
value of the consideration is obtained by discounting to present value the amounts expected to be payable in the future. The resulting interest
charge is included within finance costs.
Under IFRS, an impairment charge is required for both goodwill and other indefinite lived assets when the carrying amount exceeds the
‘recoverable amount’, defined as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Our approach in determining the recoverable amount
utilises a discounted cash flow methodology, which necessarily involves making numerous estimates and assumptions regarding revenue growth,
operating margins, tax rates, appropriate discount rates and working capital requirements. These estimates will likely differ from future actual results
of operations and cash flows, and it is possible that these differences could be material. In addition, judgements are applied in determining the level
of cash-generating unit we identify for impairment testing and the criteria we use to determine which assets should be aggregated.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and comprises the gross amounts billed to clients in respect of
fees earned, expenses recharged and commission-based income.
Operating income comprises commission and fees earned in respect of revenue. Cost of sales include fees paid to external suppliers where they
are retained to perform part or all of a specific project for a client, and the resulting expenditure is directly attributable to the revenue earned.
Revenue and operating income are stated exclusive of VAT, sales taxes and trade discounts.
Public Relations
Revenue is typically derived from retainer fees and services performed subject to specific agreement. Revenue is recognised when the service is
performed in accordance with the contractual arrangement. Revenue is recognised on long-term contracts, if the outcome can be assessed with
reasonable certainty, by including in the income statement revenue and related costs as contract activity progresses.
Advertising and Marketing Services and Research and Engagement
Apart from where it is derived from retainer contracts (as above), operating income is recognised on each contract in proportion to the level of
services performed. Costs relating to contracts in progress at the balance sheet date are carried forward in work in progress. Losses are
recognised as soon as they are foreseen.
Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases and the related lease obligations are recorded in the balance sheet at the fair value of the leased assets at the
inception of the leases or, if lower, the present value of minimum lease payments. The excess of the lease payments over the recorded lease
obligations is treated as finance charges which are amortised over each lease term to give a constant rate of charge on the remaining balance of
the obligation.
Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the income statement in equal annual amounts over the periods of the leases.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term or the
period to the next review.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in UK companies denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates
of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the
rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period. Non-monetary
items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations are translated at the exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet
date. Income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly. Exchange
differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. Such translation reserve differences are
recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss. Translation differences on
non-monetary financial assets, such as investments in equity securities classified as available for sale, are included in the fair value reserve in equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and
translated at the closing rate.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 55 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Chime Communications plc 56
Finance costs
Finance costs which include interest, bank charges and the unwinding of the discount on deferred consideration, are recognised in the income
statement in the year in which they are incurred.
Segmental reporting
As required by IAS 14 (Segment Reporting) the prior year comparatives have been restated to reflect the change in management reporting of TTA
Public Relations within the group. TTA Public Relations was previously reported within Advertising and Marketing Services; it is now included within
Public Relations. The effect of this change is as follows for 2007: revenue £3,274,000, operating income £2,965,000; operating profit £358,000;
capital additions £46,000, depreciation £20,000; segment assets £1,107,000; segment liabilities £454,000.
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated before the share of results of associate, investment income and finance costs.
Retirement benefit costs
The pension cost is the amount of contributions payable by the Group to the defined contribution pension scheme and to personal pension
schemes of certain employees during the accounting period. These are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it
excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability
method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent
that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are
not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets
and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint
ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not
reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is
charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is
also dealt with in equity.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost net of depreciation and any provision for impairment. Depreciation is provided in equal instalments
over the estimated useful economic lives of assets, using the following rates:
Short-term leasehold improvements 20%
Motor vehicles 16.67%
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 25%
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of
the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the
asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets comprise acquired customer relationships and computer software. Customer relationships acquired as part of acquisitions
of business are capitalised separately from goodwill as an intangible if their value can be measured reliably on initial recognition and it is probable
that the expected future economic benefit that are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group. Computer software is capitalised based on the
cost incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software. Intangible assets are stated at cost net of amortisation and any provision for
impairment. The costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives; for customer relationships this is five years and computer software this is
four years. Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in
order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets,
the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life
is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cashflows are
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks
specific to the asset for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset
(cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is immediately recognised as an expense in the income statement.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate of its
recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no
impairment loss been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years.
Work in progress
Work in progress is stated at the lower of invoiced cost and net realisable value, net of payments received on account. Cost represents work
supplied from outside the Group awaiting billing to clients at the year-end and directly attributable overhead costs.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions
of the instrument.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash comprises cash, overdrafts and cash held on short-term deposit (up to three months). Cash equivalents are cash deposits held on three
months deposit at the Royal Bank of Scotland plc. The deposits guarantee the loan note creditors. Interest accruing on the deposits is payable to
the holders of the loan notes less any costs arising.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated
irrecoverable amounts.
Investments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under contract whose terms require
the delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including
transaction costs.
Investments are classified either as available for sale, and are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, or at amortised cost, where no
fair value is readily determinable. Gains and losses on available for sale financial assets arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in
equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is
included in the net profit or loss for the period.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the fair value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the fair value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments. IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after
7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value
at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line
basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based
vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured for all schemes with market-based conditions by use of the Monte Carlo model. For all other schemes, fair value is
measured by use of the Black-Scholes model. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for
the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
2. Significant accounting policies (continued)
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 57 A liability equal to the portion of the goods or services received is recognised at the current fair value determined at each balance sheet date for
cash-settled share-based payments.
The Group also provides employees with the ability to purchase the Group’s ordinary shares at 80% of the current market value. The Group records
an expense, based on its estimate of the 20% discount related to shares expected to vest on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Further
details are included in note 40 to the accounts.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required to
settle that obligation, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards not yet effective
Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for the Group’s accounting
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 or later periods, but which the Group has not early adopted. The new standards which are expected
to be relevant to the Group’s operations are as follows:
IFRS 8 Operating segments (effective from 1 August 2009) This IFRS specifies how an entity should report information about its operating
segments in its financial statements. Generally, financial information is required to be reported on the same basis as is used internally for evaluating
operating segment performance and deciding how to allocate resources to operating segments. Management does not believe this will have a
material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs (effective from 1 August 2009) This amendment requires the capitalisation of borrowing costs, to
the extent they are directly attributable to the acquisition, production or construction of assets that need a period of time to get ready for their
intended use or sale. Management does not believe this will have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements (effective from 1 August 2009) This amendment requires information in
financial statements to be aggregated on the basis of shared characteristics and introduces a statement of comprehensive income. Preparers will
have the option of presenting items of income and expense and components of other comprehensive income either in a single statement of
comprehensive income with subtotals, or in two separate statements (a separate income statement followed by a statement of comprehensive
income).
IFRS 3 (revised) Business Combinations and IAS 27 (revised) Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (effective from
1 July 2009) The revised standard will represent a significant change, including greater emphasis on the use of fair value, potentially increasing the
judgement and subjectivity around business combination accounting and requiring greater input by valuation experts; focusing on changes in
control as a significant economic event – introducing requirements to re-measure interests to fair value at the time control is achieved or lost, and
recognising the impact of all transactions between controlling and non-controlling shareholders not involving a loss of control, directly in equity; and
focusing on what is given to the vendor as consideration, rather than what is spent to achieve the acquisition. Transaction costs, changes in the
value of contingent consideration, settlement of pre-existing contracts, share-based payments and similar items will generally be accounted for
separately from the business combination, and affect profit or loss. Management is currently assessing the impact of this amendment on the
Group’s financial statements.
3. Revenue
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Continuing operations (restated)
Public Relations 178,955 131,738
Advertising and Marketing Services 86,320 61,515
Research and Engagement 12,119 13,336
Group revenue 277,394 206,589
Discontinued operation (note 10) – 512
277,394 207,101
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Chime Communications plc 58 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 59
4. Business and geographical segments
Business segments
For management purposes, the Group is currently organised into three operating divisions – Public Relations, Advertising and Marketing Services
and Research and Engagement. These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information.
Principal activities are as follows:
Public Relations
The Public Relations Division comprises some of the leading names in the industry, including Bell Pottinger, Good Relations, Harvard, Insight,
Resonate, De Facto and Corporate Citizenship. It is the ranked No. 1 PR group in the UK in the PR Week public relations consultancy league table
for 2007. It serves major UK and international brands, as well as governments, government departments, pharmaceutical and healthcare
companies, charities, not-for-profit organisations, professional service firms, consumer brands and famous people.
Advertising and Marketing Services (‘AMS’)
The AMS Division possesses specialist skills in advertising and marketing services – direct marketing, digital communication, sponsorship
exploitation, point of sale, sales promotion and specialist media planning and buying. It also specialises in the niche markets of property and
financial services.
Research and Engagement
The Research and Engagement Division is made up of Opinion Leader, Ledbury Research and Facts International. Opinion Leader Research is one
of the UK’s leading research consultancies and Ledbury Research provides research and advice to brands who market and sell to high net worth
consumers.
Segment information about these businesses is presented below:
Advertising Elimination
and Research of results of
Public Marketing and discontinued
Relations Services Engagement operations Elimination Consolidated
2008 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
External sales 178,955 86,320 12,119 – 277,394
Inter-segment sales 10,106 18,604 2,352 – (31,062) –
Total revenue 189,061 104,924 14,471 – (31,062) 277,394
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market prices that would also be available to unrelated third parties.
Segment result
Operating income 61,352 43,778 6,960 –– 112,090
Operating profit 12,115 6,166 376 –– 18,657
Unallocated corporate expenses (547)
Operating profit 18,110
Share of results of associates 186
Investment income 456
Finance costs (1,393)
Finance costs of deferred consideration (1,020)
Profit before tax 16,339
Tax (5,164)
Profit for the year 11,175 Chime Communications plc 60
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
4. Business and geographical segments (continued)
Advertising
and Research
Public Marketing and
Relations Services Engagement Consolidated
2008 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Other segment information
Capital additions 774 1,206 41 2,021
Depreciation and amortisation 828 1,112 96 2,036
Balance sheet
Assets
Segment assets 71,272 94,379 8,273 173,924
Available for sale financial assets 113
Investments in associates 858
Unallocated corporate assets 2,814
Consolidated total assets 177,709
Liabilities
Segment liabilities 43,416 26,026 2,202 71,644
Unallocated corporate liabilities 17,574
Consolidated total liabilities 89,218
Segment information about these businesses is presented below:
Advertising
and Elimination
Public Marketing Research of results of
Relations Services and discontinued
(restated) (restated) Engagement operations Elimination Consolidated
2007 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
External sales 132,250 61,515 13,336 (512) – 206,589
Inter-segment sales 6,228 15,949 1,708 (247) (23,638) –
Total revenue 138,478 77,464 15,044 (759) (23,638) 206,589
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market prices that would also be available to unrelated third parties.
Segment result
Operating income 54,502 34,704 7,711 (408) – 96,509
Operating profit 9,252 5,557 1,395 86 – 16,290
Unallocated corporate expenses (545)
Operating profit 15,745
Share of results of associates (73)
Investment income 214
Finance costs (938)
Finance costs of deferred consideration (1,186)
Profit before tax 13,762
Tax (4,409)
Profit for the year 9,353 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 61
Advertising
and
Public Marketing Research
Relations Services and
(restated) (restated) Engagement Consolidated
2007 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Other segment information
Capital additions 946 759 96 1,801
Depreciation and amortisation 711 786 84 1,581
Balance sheet
Assets
Segment assets 72,594 86,313 9,085 167,992
Available for sale financial assets 227
Investments in associates 488
Unallocated corporate assets 3,610
Consolidated total assets 172,317
Liabilities
Segment liabilities 36,372 20,223 3,564 60,159
Unallocated corporate liabilities 38,181
Consolidated total liabilities 98,340
2007
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations had the following effect on the segment results of Public Relations, analysed into continuing and discontinued
components.
Public
Discontinued Continuing Relations
£’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
External sales 512 128,464 128,976
Inter-segment sales 247 5,746 5,993
Total revenue 759 134,210 134,969
Result
Operating profit/(loss) (86) 8,980 8,894
The segment results from discontinued operations stated above is equal to the loss before tax from discontinued operations in note 10, which
provides a reconciliation to the net loss from discontinued operations. Chime Communications plc 62
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
4. Business and geographical segments (continued)
Geographical segments
The Group’s operations are located in the United Kingdom, Germany, the Middle East and USA. The Group’s Advertising and Marketing Services
and Research and Engagement divisions are located solely in the United Kingdom. Public relations is carried out in the United Kingdom, Germany,
the Middle East and USA.
The following table provides an analysis of the Group’s revenue by geographical market, based on the billing location of the client:
Revenue by geographical market
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
United Kingdom 109,601 104,713
Europe, Middle East and Africa 116,857 93,575
USA and rest of the world 50,936 8,301
277,394 206,589
Revenue of £nil from the Group’s discontinued operations in 2008 was derived from the United Kingdom (2007 – £690,000).
The following is an analysis of the carrying amount of segment assets, and additions to tangible assets and intangible assets, analysed by the
geographical area in which the assets are located:
Carrying amount of
segment assets Capital additions
2008 2007 2008 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
United Kingdom 171,217 166,928 1,761 1,726
Europe, Middle East and Africa 5,993 4,966 210 69
USA and rest of the world 499 423 50 6
177,709 172,317 2,021 1,801
5. Operating profit
Profit from continuing operations has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Depreciation of owned property, plant and equipment 1,852 1,355
Depreciation of assets held under finance leases 20 48
Amortisation of other intangible assets – computer software 30 19
Amortisation of other intangible assets – customer relationships 134 159
Rentals under operating leases – property 6,305 5,265
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 17 29
Staff costs (see note 6) 68,591 57,381
Net foreign exchange profits (20) (29)
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services (see below) 422 327 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 63
A more detailed analysis of auditors’ remuneration is provided below:
2008 2008 2007 2007
£’000 % £’000 %
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 80 19 66 20
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for other services pursuant to legislation 30 7 30 9
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 158 37 140 43
Total audit fees 268 63 236 72
Tax services 47 11 41 13
Other services 107 26 50 15
Total non-audit fees 154 37 91 25
In 2007, in addition to the audit fees detailed above, £244,000 of fees were capitalised as part of costs of acquisition of Fast Track Sales Limited,
Facts International Limited, The Corporate Citizenship Company and Stuart Higgins Communications Limited. These can be analysed as follows:
corporate finance services – £80,000, tax services £64,000 and fees in relation to services pursuant to such legislation – £100,000.
6. Staff costs
The average monthly number of employees (including Executive Directors) was:
2008 2007
Number Number
Public Relations 458 456
Advertising and Marketing Services 492 407
Research and Engagement 63 53
1,013 916
2008 2007
Their aggregate remuneration comprised: £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries 57,698 47,371
Social security costs 6,331 6,277
Pension costs – defined contribution plans (see note 41) 3,270 2,765
Fair value of share options granted to Directors and employees 1,292 968
68,591 57,381
7. Investment income
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Available for sale investments:
Dividend received 126 63
Loans and receivables at amortised cost:
Interest on bank deposits 93 128
Interest on cash-backed loan notes 192 15
Other interest receivable 45 8
456 214 Chime Communications plc 64
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
8. Finance costs
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Other financial liabilities held at amortised cost:
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans (1,185) (873)
Interest on cash-backed loan notes (192) (15)
Interest on non-cash-backed loan notes – (42)
Interest on obligations under finance leases (6) (8)
Other interest payable (10) –
(1,393) (938)
Finance cost of deferred consideration (1,020) (1,186)
(2,413) (2,124)
9. Tax
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Current tax:
UK corporation tax at 28.5% (2008 – 30%) 5,536 4,691
Adjustment in respect of prior years (484) (641)
5,052 4,050
Foreign tax: 86 110
Adjustment in respect of prior years (8) –
5,130 4,160
Deferred tax:
Current year originating temporary differences 68 130
Adjustment in respect of prior years (34) 94
Tax charge for the year 5,164 4,384
UK corporation tax is calculated at 28.5% of the estimated assessable profit for the year (2007 – 30%).
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
2008 2008 2007 2007
£% £%
Profit before tax 16,339 13,762
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 28.5% (2007 – 30%) 4,656 28.5 4,061 30.0
Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profits 1,066 6.5 491 3.6
Income not taxable (38) (0.2) (18) (0.1)
Deemed interest on deferred consideration 306 1.8 356 2.6
Tax effect of utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised (198) (1.2) 23 0.2
Prior year corporation tax adjustment (493) (3.0) (641) (4.7)
Prior year deferred tax adjustment (34) (0.2) 94 0.7
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions (101) (0.6) 18 0.1
Tax expense and effective tax rate for the year 5,164 31.6 4,384 32.4
Discontinued operations – 25
5,164 4,409 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 65
10. Discontinued operations
The results of the discontinued operations which have been included in the consolidated income statement, are as follows:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Revenue – 759
Expenses – (845)
Net loss before tax – (86)
Attributable tax credit – 25
Net loss on disposal of discontinued operations – (61)
The effect of discontinued operations on segment results is disclosed in note 4.
On 30 June 2007 the Group disposed of the trade and assets in Rare Corporate Design Limited to its management. There were no attributable
disposal costs. At the same time Chime took a 40% stake in the new entity.
11. Dividends
2008 2007
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: £’000 £’000
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 2.40p (2006 – 2.00p) per share 1,352 1,043
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of 1.54p (2007 – 1.10p) per share 867 581
2,219 1,624
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of 3.18p (2007 – 2.40p) per share 1,789 1,262
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these
financial statements.
Under an arrangement dated 3 April 1996, The Chime Communications Employee Trust which holds 1,508,965 ordinary shares representing 2.6%
of the Company’s called-up share capital, has agreed to waive dividends on 804,108 ordinary shares, the difference being those shares held under
the Deferred Share Plan.
Dividends per share have been restated to take into account the share consolidation carried out on 14 May 2008. Chime Communications plc 66
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
12. Earnings per share
From continuing and discontinued operations
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
Earnings
2008 2007 2007
(as restated) (as previously
reported)
Basic 19.87p 16.76p 3.35p
Diluted 19.59p 16.22p 3.24p
£’000 £’000
Earnings for the purposes of basic earnings per share, being net profit attributable to
equity holders of the parent 10,783 8,617
Number of shares Number Number Number
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 54,279,428 51,404,909 257,024,547
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
Share options 754,319 1,720,077 8,600,383
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 55,033,747 53,124,986 265,624,930
From continuing operations
2008 2007 2007
(as restated) (as previously
reported)
Basic 19.87p 17.15p 3.43p
Diluted 19.59p 16.60p 3.32p
£’000 £’000 £’000
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 10,783 8,617
Adjustments to exclude loss for the year from discontinued operations – 61
Adjustment to exclude loss for the year from sale of associate – 140
Earnings from continuing operations for the purpose of basic earnings per share excluding
discontinued operations 10,783 8,818
The denominators used are the same as those detailed above for both basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing and
discontinued operations.
From discontinued operations
2008 2007 2007
(as restated) (as previously
reported)
Basic – (0.39)p (0.08)p
Diluted – (0.38)p (0.08)p
The denominators used are the same as those detailed above for both basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing and
discontinued operations.
Earnings per share have been restated to take into account the share consolidation carried out on 14 May 2008. Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 67
13. Goodwill
2008 2007
Cost £’000 £’000
Carrying amount at 1 January 109,909 74,730
Exchange differences 1,019 275
Recognised on acquisition of a subsidiary (see note 37) 932 32,466
Other changes in respect of prior year acquisitions 1,226 2,438
At 31 December 113,086 109,909
The adjustment arising on prior year acquisitions relates to the contingent consideration being re-assessed based on results as follows:
2008
£’000
VCCP Limited (62)
Ledbury Research Limited (24)
Baxter Hulme PR & Marketing Limited 13
Corporate Citizenship Limited (2)
Stuart Higgins Communications Limited 787
Fast Track Sales Limited 516
Bullnose (2)
1,226
Goodwill consists of the following substantial holdings:
2008
£’000
VCCP Limited 29,820
Fast Track Sales Limited 27,819
Bell Pottinger Public Relations Limited 8,487
Harvard Public Relations Limited 7,737
Corporate Citizenship Limited/The Smart Company.Net Limited 7,163
81,026
Other acquired goodwill on the acquisition of 24 companies 32,060
113,086
In accordance with the Group’s accounting policy, the carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets are reviewed for impairment annually
or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. The 2008 impairment review was undertaken
as at 31 December 2008. The review assessed whether the carrying value of goodwill was supported by the net present value of future cash
flows derived from assets using a projection period of up to five years for each cash-generating unit. The basis for this is the 2009 budget with
conservative growth rates thereafter based on available GDP data. The 2009 budgets are based on management’s best estimates taking into
account prior period results and industry knowledge. After the projection period, steady growth has been assumed at rates not exceeding long-
term average growth rates for the industry for each cash-generating unit, with no improvements in operating margin being assumed. Annual growth
rate of 2.0% (2007 – 2.5%) and a pre-tax discount rate of 10.4% (2007 – 9.2%) have been assumed. Chime Communications plc 68
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
14. Other intangible assets
Customer Computer
Relationships Software Total
Cost £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2008 864 722 1,586
Additions – 207 207
At 31 December 2008 864 929 1,793
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2008 159 665 824
Charge for the year 134 30 164
At 31 December 2008 293 695 988
Carrying amount at 31 December 2008 571 234 805
Carrying amount at 31 December 2007 705 57 762
Customer relationships are being amortised over their useful economic life of five years.
Customer Computer
Relationships Software Total
Cost £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2007 – 656 656
Additions 864 66 930
At 31 December 2007 864 722 1,586
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2007 – 646 646
Charge for the year 159 19 178
At 31 December 2007 159 665 824
Carrying amount at 31 December 2007 705 57 762
Carrying amount at 31 December 2006 – 10 10 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 69
15. Property, plant and equipment
Short-term Fixtures,
leasehold Motor fittings and
improvements vehicles computers Total
Cost £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2008 4,643 647 5,623 10,913
Additions 527 180 1,314 2,021
Acquisition of subsidiary –– 1 1
Exchange differences – 20 241 261
Disposals (122) (213) (727) (1,062)
At 31 December 2008 5,048 634 6,452 12,134
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2008 3,081 313 3,094 6,488
Charge for the year 602 98 1,172 1,872
Exchange differences –3 187 190
Eliminated on disposal (122) (161) (722) (1,005)
At 31 December 2008 3,561 253 3,731 7,545
Carrying amount at 31 December 2008 1,487 381 2,721 4,589
Carrying amount at 31 December 2007 1,562 334 2,529 4,425
The carrying amount of the Group’s motor vehicles includes an amount of £77,650 in respect of assets held under finance leases. The carrying
amount of the Group’s fixtures, fittings and computers includes an amount of £4,621 in respect of assets held under finance leases. As stated in
note 26, the Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessor’s charges over the leased assets.
Short-term Fixtures,
leasehold Motor fittings and
improvements vehicles computers Total
Cost £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2007 3,669 647 5,869 10,185
Additions 709 62 1,030 1,801
Acquisition of subsidiary 511 136 482 1,129
Exchange differences –4 77 81
Disposals (246) (202) (1,835) (2,283)
At 31 December 2008 4,643 647 5,623 10,913
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2007 2,878 376 3,959 7,213
Charge for the year 429 93 881 1,403
Exchange differences –1 65 66
Eliminated on disposal (226) (157) (1,811) (2,194)
At 31 December 2008 3,081 313 3,094 6,488
Carrying amount at 31 December 2007 1,562 334 2,529 4,425
Carrying amount at 31 December 2006 791 271 1,910 2,972 Chime Communications plc 70
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
16. Subsidiaries and associates
The Group’s principal trading subsidiaries and associated undertakings, which are all incorporated in Great Britain (except where noted)
are listed below:
Proportion
of ordinary
shares held and
Company Nature of business voting rights
Subsidiaries
Bell Pottinger Communications Limited Public Relations 100%
Bell Pottinger Communications USA LLC* Public Relations 100%
Bell Pottinger Corporate and Financial Limited Financial Public Relations 100%
Bell Pottinger Group Limited Public Relations 100%
Bell Pottinger Middle East FZ LLC > Public Relations 70%
Bell Pottinger Public Affairs Limited Political Public Relations 100%
Bell Pottinger Public Relations Limited Consumer Public Relations & Sports Marketing 100%
Bell Pottinger USA Inc * Public Relations 100%
Bullnose Limited Public Relations 63%
Branded Moments Of Truth Limited Consumer Marketing 80%
Caucusworld Limited Research 75%
Corporate Citizenship Limited + Corporate and Social Responsibility Consultancy 100%
Corporate Citizenship Company Inc* Corporate and Social Responsibility Consultancy 100%
De Facto Communications Limited + Healthcare Public Relations 100%
Good Relations Limited Public Relations 100%
Facts International Limited + Research 75%
FIL Market Research Limited + Research 100%
Fast Track Events Limited Event Management 100%
Fast Track Sales Limited + Marketing Consultancy and Event Management 100%
Fast Track Sailing Limited Sports Marketing Consultancy 60%
Fast Track Sports Media Consultancy Espana S.L.^ Sports Marketing Consultancy 52%
Harvard Public Relations GmbH @ Public Relations 100%
Harvard Public Relations Limited + Public Relations 100%
Insight Marketing & Communications Limited + Public Relations 100%
Ledbury Research Limited + Market Research 55%
Lighthouse Communications Limited Sponsorship Selection 100%
MMK Markt- & Medien-Kommunication GmbH @ Public Relations 100%
Naked Eye Research Limited + Research 55%
Opinion Leader Research Limited Market Research 100%
Ozone Marketing Communications Limited Healthcare Public Relations 100%
Pure Media Group Limited Media Buying 100%
Resonate Communications Limited Consumer Public Relations 100%
Stephens Francis Whitson Limited Direct Marketing 55%
Stuart Higgins Communications Limited + Sports Marketing Consultancy 100%
Teamspirit Limited + Financial Services Advertising and Marketing 100%
Teamspirit Corporate and Business Limited Financial Services Advertising and Marketing 55%
The Sports Business Limited Sports Marketing Consultancy 100% Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 71
Proportion
of ordinary
shares held and
Company Nature of business voting rights
Traffic Werbeagentur GmbH @ Public Relations 100%
The Smart Company.Net Limited + Corporate and Social Responsibility Consultancy 100%
TTA Public Relations Limited + Property Marketing 70%
VCCP Limited + Advertising and Marketing 100%
VCCP GmbH @ Advertising and Marketing 100%
VCCP Blue Limited Advertising and Marketing 100%
VCCP Digital Limited Digital Advertising and Marketing 100%
VCCP Search Limited Search Engine Marketing 60%
Associates
Meropa Communications (Pty) Limited ±+ Public Relations 20%
Rare Corporate Design Limited Corporate Design 40%
Colour TV Limited Television Production 45%
The Agency of Someone Limited Branding and design 40%
X & Y Communications Limited + Public Relations 29%
± Incorporated in South Africa
@ Incorporated in Germany
* Incorporated in America
^ Incorporated in Spain
> Incorporated in Dubai
+ Direct subsidiary/associate of Chime Communications plc
These companies operate principally in their country of incorporation.
17. Investments in associates
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Carrying value of investments 167 50
Carrying value of loans to associates 370 342
Share of profits 321 96
858 488
Aggregate amounts relating to associates
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Total assets 2,220 1,086
Total liabilities (1,282) (909)
Net assets 938 177
Revenue 5,794 2,874
Profit/(loss) for the year 225 (73)
Included in the above liabilities owed by the associates are loans from the Group of £370,472 (2007 – £342,800).
A list of the significant investments in associates, including the name, country of incorporation, proportion of ownership interest is given in note 16. Chime Communications plc 72
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
18. Other investments
Other investments comprise a 10% holding in PSP Holdings Ltd. This has been recorded at cost, less any provision for impairment, as its fair
value cannot be reliably measured as there is no active market.
19. Available for sale investments
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Fair value 113 227
The investments included above represent investments in listed equity securities that present the Group with opportunity for return through
dividend income and trading gains. They have no fixed maturity or coupon rate. The investment was held at fair value at 31 December 2008.
The fair value of these securities is based on quoted market prices. The investment at 31 December 2008 comprised 1,562,500 shares in
Clipper Ventures Limited.
20. Due from deferred consideration
Amounts shown are due from the disposal of Smithfield Financial Limited, being the potential deferred consideration due after one year.
Management has assessed the credit risk associated with the balance and is satisfied that the balance is recoverable. £16,986 was received in the
year towards the deferred consideration. Management believes the carrying value is a reasonable approximation of the value of the asset.
21. Deferred tax
2008 2007
Deferred tax asset movement £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2008 1,191 1,747
Acquisition of subsidiaries 7 80
Charge to equity (335) (411)
Charge to the profit and loss account (34) (225)
At 31 December 2008 829 1,191
Analysis of deferred tax asset
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 487 416
Short-term temporary differences 103 61
Share-based payments 239 699
Losses – 15
829 1,191
Losses of £0.8 million (2007 – £0.8 million) and $5.0 million in the US (2007 – $4.4 million) have not been recognised in deferred taxation due to
insufficient certainty that there will be appropriate profits available in the future to utilise them.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred
tax liabilities have not been recognised was £1,929,000 (2007 – £1,209,000). No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences
because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not
reverse in the foreseeable future.
22. Work in progress
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Amounts recoverable on customer contracts 2,019 1,560 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 73
23. Trade and other receivables
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Amounts receivable from provision of services 38,813 35,691
Other debtors 2,185 1,390
Prepayments and accrued income 6,707 5,560
47,705 42,641
The ageing of the current trade receivables is as follows:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Not overdue 13,781 17,905
Less than 30 days 15,769 11,569
Between 30 and 60 days 3,396 3,070
Between 60 and 90 days 2,914 1,384
Between 90 and 180 days 2,320 1,238
Between 180 days and 360 days 1,270 972
More than 360 days 188 396
39,638 36,534
Provision for irrecoverable trade receivables (825) (843)
38,813 35,691
The average credit period taken on provision of services is 50 days (2007 – 55 days). The Group’s trade receivables are stated after allowances
for bad and doubtful debts. This allowance has been determined by considering specific doubtful balances and by reference to past default
experience, an analysis of which is as follows.
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
At 1 January 843 583
Amounts charged to admin expenses 833 692
Acquisitions – 38
Trade receivables written off (869) (487)
Amounts recovered during the year 18 17
At 31 December 825 843
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value. Trade and other receivables are
predominantly non-interest-bearing. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s customer base
being large, unrelated and largely billed in advance. Due to this, the directors believe there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of
the allowance for bad and doubtful debts.
24. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and equivalents include £416,055 of cash held as security for cash-backed loan notes. These are held at Royal Bank of Scotland and are
redeemable on demand by the loan note holders. See note 25 for further details. Chime Communications plc 74
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
25. Trade and other payables
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Trade creditors 25,318 14,701
Other taxation and social security 3,126 3,226
Accruals and deferred income 38,366 37,733
Other creditors 2,310 2,007
Loan notes 416 907
69,536 58,574
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 38 days (2007 – 31 days). The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade
payables approximates to their fair value.
The loan notes are guaranteed against the loan note deposits of the same amount included within cash and cash equivalents. Interest accruing
on the deposit is payable to the holders of the loan notes less any costs arising.
Loan notes totalling £416,055 are outstanding as part of the initial and contingent consideration on the acquisition of HHCL Group Limited, Roose
Holdings Limited and VCCP Limited.
Loan notes totalling £5.5 million were issued to senior employees of HHCL Group Limited in two instalments, the balance outstanding at
31 December 2008 being £0.277 million (2007: £0.29 million). The loan notes are repayable on giving 90 days’ notice to the loan note holder.
Loan notes totalling £8.6 million were issued to the original shareholders of Roose Holdings Limited as part of the initial and contingent
consideration. The loan notes are repayable at anytime after one year from the date of issue. The balance outstanding at 31 December 2008 is
£0.002 million (2007 – £0.02 million).
Loan notes totalling £7.7 million were issued to the original shareholders of VCCP Limited for the contingent consideration. The loan notes are
repayable at any time after six months from the date of issue. The balance outstanding at 31 December 2008 is £0.136 million (2007 – £nil).
Interest payable on loan notes is in the range of 1.5% to 5.85%.
The loan notes are guaranteed by Royal Bank of Scotland plc, unless otherwise stated, who hold a deposit of £0.42 million against them.
The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit timeframe.
26. Obligations under finance leases
Minimum Present Minimum Present
lease value of lease lease value of lease
payments payments payments payments
2008 2008 2007 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Amounts payable under finance leases
Within one year 53 48 57 49
Between one and two years 16 16 42 42
Between two and three years –– 12 11
69 64 111 102
Less: future finance charges (5) – (9) –
Present value of finance lease obligations 64 64 102 102
Less: Amount due for settlement within 12 months (shown under current liabilities) (48) (49)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 16 53
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its motor vehicles, fixtures, fittings and equipment under finance leases. The lease term is three years.
The finance lease bears interest at variable rate of 1.4% above base rate.
All lease obligations are denominated in sterling.
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ charges over the leased assets. Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 75
27. Bank overdrafts and loans
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Bank loans – 8,500
Cost of raising finance – (125)
– 8,375
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year – –
In the second year – 8,375
In the third to fifth year – –
– 8,375
Amount due for settlement after 12 months – 8,375
All borrowings are in sterling.
Cash deposits and bank loans are held at either variable rates of interest or at rates fixed for periods of no longer than three months.
The principal features of the Group’s borrowings are as follows:
(i) The Group has a rolling overdraft facility of £2 million. The overdraft facility is repayable on demand.
(ii) The Group has a committed facility. The facility is £30 million. The term of the facility is until 30 June 2013.
(iii) The bank loan bears interest at 1.3% above LIBOR and the overdraft bears interest at 1.3% above base rate.
(iv) A cross-guarantee exists between each of the subsidiaries and the parent company. Royal Bank of Scotland plc holds debentures over the
assets of the Company and its subsidiaries in respect of the bank loans.
(v) The weighted average interest rate applied in the period is 6.08% (2007 – 6.01%)
At 31 December 2008, the Group had available £30 million (2007 – £14.5 million) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which
all conditions precedent had been met.
The fair values of bank overdrafts and loans are determined by considering the maturity dates and market rates of interest. At 31 December 2008
there was no material difference between the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities and their book value. Chime Communications plc 76
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
28. Provisions
Deferred/ Deferred/ Gross
Contingent Contingent obligation
consideration consideration under put Vacant
– shares – cash options property Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2008 15,149 12,897 – 695 28,741
On acquisition of subsidiaries 100 550 –– 650
Adjustment to prior year acquisitions 564 654 –– 1,218
Discounting charge to the income statement (19) (109) –– (128)
Change in payment method (2,058) 2,058 –– –
Charged to the income statement 572 449 –– 1,021
Payments made (5,854) (10,318) – (418) (16,590)
Written put options over minority interests –– 2,000 – 2,000
At 31 December 2008 8,454 6,181 2,000 277 16,912
Included in current liabilities – 207 – 181 388
Included in non-current liabilities 8,454 5,974 2,000 96 16,524
8,454 6,181 2,000 277 16,912
The vacant property provision remaining at 31 December 2008 relates to three buildings, one near Heathrow, one in Chelsea and one in
London Bridge.
The Heathrow building is approximately 12,000 sq ft and the Group has a lease which runs to September 2016. The current rental cost is
£350,000 per annum with upward-only rent reviews due in September 2010 and 2015. The Group has sublet 7,000 sq ft, the remaining 5,000 sq
ft is occupied by Group companies. The rental income achieved on the sublet space is lower than that rent currently being paid under the lease.
The Chelsea building is approximately 20,000 sq ft and the Group has a lease which runs to June 2015. The current rental cost is £566,000 per
annum with an upward rent review due in June 2010. The building is fully sublet. The rent achieved is no less than that being paid under the lease.
The provision covers the unwinding of the rent-free periods given to the tenants.
The London Bridge office is approximately 2,700 sq ft and the Group has a lease which runs to March 2009. The current rental cost is £68,000 per
annum. The office is currently vacant and provision has been made for the costs to the end of the lease.
Contingent consideration relates to acquisitions made in current and previous years. The amounts payable are dependent on the future profits of
the companies acquired. Further details of the deferred considerations arising from current year acquisitions are shown in note 38.
The contingent consideration shares comprises shares to be issued in respect of acquisitions and has been shown as a liability in accordance with
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and Disclosure.
Details of contingent consideration shares to be issued and their basis are disclosed in note 38. The number of shares to be issued in all instances
is based on the current market value prior to the issue of the shares.
Timing of payments of deferred consideration is set out in the relevant Sale and Purchase Agreements but amounts payable are dependent upon
future results. Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 77
The gross obligation under put option has arisen as a result of a shareholders’ agreement with a minority interest. The value of the option has been
estimated with regards to future profitability of the operation based on multiples of earnings.
Deferred/ Deferred/
Contingent Contingent
consideration consideration Vacant
– shares – cash property Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2007 7,334 7,552 414 15,300
On acquisition of subsidiaries 7,019 4,782 – 11,801
Adjustment to prior year acquisitions 1,224 1,214 – 2,438
Discounting charge to the income statement 646 540 – 1,186
Change in payment method (143) 143 ––
Charged to the income statement –– 380 380
Payments made (931) (1,334) (99) (2,364)
At 31 December 2007 15,149 12,897 695 28,741
Included in current liabilities 7,880 8,155 300 16,335
Included in non-current liabilities 7,269 4,742 395 12,406
15,149 12,897 695 28,741
29. Share capital
2008 2007
Number Nominal Number Nominal
(as restated) value (as restated) value
£’000 £’000
Authorised: at 1 January and 31 December ordinary shares at 25p each 152,814,279 38,204 152,814,279 38,204
Called up, allotted and fully paid at 1 January ordinary shares at 25p each 53,275,051 13,319 50,736,937 12,684
Issues relating to contingent consideration of VCCP Limited 3,782,849 945 ––
Issues relating to contingent consideration of De Facto Communications Limited –– 225,745 56
Issues relating to the acquisition of Fast Track Sales Limited –– 2,000,000 500
Issues relating to contingent consideration on The Smart Company.Net Limited –– 115,832 29
Issued to staff under share options –– 196,537 50
Called up, allotted and fully paid at 31 December 57,057,900 14,264 53,275,051 13,319
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
All numbers of shares have been restated to take into account the 1 for 5 share consolidation carried out on 14 May 2008.
On 30 April 2008 3,782,849 shares were issued in respect of contingent consideration for VCCP Limited. The fair value of these shares was
£1.2975 each (as revalued). Chime Communications plc 78
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
30. Share premium account
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Balance at 1 January 32,217 26,594
Premium arising on issue of equity shares 4,904 5,623
Balance at 31 December 37,121 32,217
31. Own shares
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Balance at 1 January (4,381) (5,968)
Disposed on exercise of options – 2,747
Purchase of own shares (571) (1,160)
Balance at 31 December (4,952) (4,381)
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Chime Communications plc purchased in the market and held by the Chime Communications
Employee Trust to satisfy options under the Group’s Share Options Scheme, Deferred Share Plan and Co-Investment Plan (see note 40).
The Chime Communications Employee Trust (the Trust) was established in 1997 in Jersey. The trustee is Halifax EES Trustees International Limited.
The beneficiaries of the Trust are employees and former employees of the Company and the Group (including any Director) and the spouses and
children or stepchildren of such employees or former employees. The purpose of the Trust is to facilitate and encourage the ownership of shares by
employees. Distributions from the Trust are agreed by the trustee on recommendations from the Board of Directors of Chime Communications plc.
The Trust currently holds 1,508,965 ordinary shares which have a nominal value of £377,241 and over which options were granted in April 1999,
November 2000 and April 2003, deferred shares in May 2006, July 2007 and May 2008 and Co-Investment Plan shares in September 2006 and
March 2007. In 2008 406,833 (2007 – 434,042 post-consolidation) shares were purchased at a nominal value of £101,708, representing 0.71% of
the called-up share capital at 31 December 2008. Cost associated with these shares amounted to £4,274. All costs of the Trust are borne by
Chime Communications plc and expensed through the income statement. The Trust has opted to waive all dividends with the exception of those
shares allocated under the Deferred Share Plan (see note 41). The market value of the shares in the Trust at 31 December 2008 was £777,117
(2007 – £1,983,840). Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 79
32. Equity reserves
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Balance at 1 January 32,385 32,385
Balance at 31 December 32,385 32,385
Capital reduction reserve relates to the capital reduction undertaken in October 2003.The reserve will not be treated as realised profits of the
Company until any debt or claim outstanding as at 1 July 2003 has been repaid or remedied. If on 1 July 2013 there remains only liabilities
outstanding in relation to property leases the amount outstanding to the reserve may be released and the undertaking discharged or replaced by
new share issues.
33. Translation reserves
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Balance at 1 January 146 (245)
Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations 1,866 391
Balance at 31 December 2,012 146
34. Accumulated profit/(loss)
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Balance at 1 January (612) (5,592)
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 10,783 8,617
Dividends paid (2,219) (1,624)
Credit in relation to share-based payments 892 557
Revaluation of available for sale investment (113) (23)
Loss on disposal of own shares held in treasury – (2,547)
Balance at 31 December 8,731 (612)
The share-based payments reserve arises from the cost of share-based payment transactions with employees, which is credited to equity in
accordance with IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments.
35. Reconciliation of equity attributable to equity holders of parent
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Balance at 1 January as previously reported 73,074 59,858
Dividends paid (2,219) (1,624)
Credit in relation to share-based payments 892 557
Purchase of own shares (571) (1,160)
Own shares disposed of on exercise of options – 200
Total recognised income and expense for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 12,536 8,985
Increase in share capital 5,849 6,258
Balance at 31 December 89,561 73,074 Chime Communications plc 80
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
36. Notes to the cash flow statement
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Operating profit 18,110 15,745
Adjustments for:
Loss from discontinued operation – (86)
Share-based payment expense 1,292 968
Translation differences 727 119
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,872 1,403
Amortisation of other intangible assets 30 19
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 134 159
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 17 29
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (418) 281
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 21,764 18,637
Increase in work in progress (459) (840)
Increase in receivables (4,878) (8,027)
Increase in payables 11,274 10,169
Cash generated by operations 27,701 19,939
Income taxes paid (4,961) (3,869)
Interest paid (1,463) (870)
Net cash from operating activities 21,277 15,200
Additions to fixtures and equipment during the year amounting to £nil and additions to motor vehicles during the year amounting to £nil were
financed by new finance leases (2007 – £17,757).
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet) comprise cash at bank and other
short-term liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
Net cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year comprise bank balances of £10,196,000 (2007 – £6,652,000) and overdrafts of £nil
(2007 – £nil). Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 81
37. Acquisition of subsidiaries
On 29 February 2008, the Group acquired 55% of the issued share capital of Naked Eye Research Limited. The fair value of the consideration
given for the acquisition was £96,822. An initial payment of £50,000 was satisfied on completion in cash. Costs relating to the acquisition
amounted to £33,914, all of which have been paid in the year. The Group has provided for contingent consideration of £50,000 to date, dependent
on profits to 2013. This has been discounted to a net present value of £46,822, with the resulting discounting charge of £3,178 to be taken
through the income statement over the period.
On 20 March 2008, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of MC Bio Communications Limited. The fair value of the consideration
given for the acquisition was £313,581. An initial payment of £1 was satisfied on completion in cash. Costs relating to the acquisition amounted to
£49,255, all of which have been paid in the year. The Group has provided for contingent consideration of £400,000 to date, dependent on profits
to 2013. This has been discounted to a net present value of £313,580, with the resulting discounting charge of £86,420 to be taken through the
income statement over the period.
On 2 April 2008, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Bankbrae Holdings Limited, holding company of The Sports Business
Limited. The fair value of the consideration given for the acquisition was £361,838. An initial payment of £200,000 was satisfied on completion in
cash. Costs relating to the acquisition amounted to £65,752, all of which have been paid in the year. The Group has provided for contingent
consideration of £200,000 to date, dependent on profits to 2011. This has been discounted to a net present value of £161,838, with the resulting
discounting charge of £38,162 to be taken through the income statement over the period.
The fair value of the net liabilities acquired by these acquisitions was £11,151, resulting in goodwill of £932,313 which has been capitalised as an
intangible fixed asset.
In the post-acquisition period, the acquired companies contributed £62,999 to the profit on ordinary activities before taxation and £768,761
to revenue.
The goodwill calculation for the acquisition is as follows:
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustments value
Net assets acquired: £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade and other receivables 173 – 173
Cash and cash equivalents 133 – 133
Trade and other payables (311) – (311)
(5) – (5)
Minority interest (6)
(11)
Goodwill 932
Total consideration 921
Satisfied by:
Cash 250
Directly attributable costs 149
Deferred consideration 522
921
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition:
Cash consideration 399
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (133)
266
Goodwill arises from anticipated profitability and future operating synergies from the combination.
If these acquisitions had been completed on the first day of the financial year they would have contributed £970,285 to Group revenue and
£107,501 to profit before tax attributable to equity holders of the parent.
Other deferred consideration of £16,172,621 was settled during the year in respect of acquisitions made in previous years by cash payments
of £10,318,646 and £5,853,975 by the issue of shares; £126,604 of cash paid in the year relates to costs in respect of prior year acquisitions.
In addition £16,144 was paid to acquire an additional 39% of Bullnose Limited. The total payment in respect of the purchase of subsidiary
undertakings was therefore £10,860,316. Cash acquired on acquisition amounted to £132,393, therefore the net cash effect in respect of
subsidiary undertakings was £10,727,923. Chime Communications plc 82
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
38. Contingent liabilities and commitments
In addition to the potential deferred and contingent consideration as disclosed in note 28 of £14,635,000 at 31 December 2008 there was a
maximum financial commitment of £19,101,033 relating to unprovided deferred contingent consideration payable in respect of acquisitions of
subsidiary undertakings. This relates to the acquisition of Fast Track Sales Limited (£12,245,000), The Corporate Citizenship Company Limited
(£2,206,034) and Stuart Higgins Communications Limited (£700,000) in 2007, MC Bio Communications Limited (£1,849,999) and Bankbrae
Holdings Limited (£2,100,000) in 2008.
Fast Track Sales Limited – The maximum contingent consideration payable is £25,000,000, however provision has only been made of
£12,755,000 in the accounts to date (before discounting). The contingent consideration is a multiple of seven times earnings before interest and
tax the average profits for the following periods: average of the three years 2007 to 2009 inclusive, and average of the three years 2010 to 2012
inclusive. The contingent consideration would be satisfied by the issue of new shares until the amount of total consideration paid has been satisfied
as to 50% in cash and 50% in new shares. Thereafter, the contingent consideration would be satisfied 50% in loan notes and 50% by the issue of
new shares. Chime has the right to pay a higher percentage in cash if it so wishes.
The Corporate Citizenship Company Limited – The maximum contingent consideration payable is £4,206,034, however provision has only
been made for £2,000,000 in the accounts to date (before discounting). The contingent consideration is a multiple of 4.75 times the average
earnings before interest and tax for the following periods: average of the three years 2007 to 2009 inclusive, and average of the two years 2010 to
2011 inclusive. The contingent consideration would be satisfied entirely in loan notes or cash.
Stuart Higgins Communications Limited – The maximum contingent consideration payable is £1,750,000, however provision has only been
made for £1,050,000 in the accounts to date (before discounting). The contingent consideration is a multiple of 4.5 times the average earnings
before interest and tax for the three years 2008 to 2010 inclusive. The contingent consideration would be satisfied 50% in cash and 50% by the
issue of new shares. Chime has the right to pay a higher percentage in cash if it so wishes.
MC Bio Communications Limited – the maximum contingent consideration payable is £2,249,999, however provision has only been made for
£400,000 in the accounts to date (before discounting). The contingent consideration is a multiple of four times the average profits before tax for the
following periods: average of the three years 2008 to 2010 inclusive, and average of the three years 2011 to 2013 inclusive. The contingent
consideration would be satisfied entirely in loan notes.
Bankbrae Holdings Limited – the maximum contingent consideration payable is £2,300,000, however provision has only been made for
£200,000 in the accounts to date (before discounting). The contingent consideration is a multiple of 4.5 times the average profits before tax for
the following periods: average of the two years 2008 to 2009 inclusive, and average of the two years 2010 to 2011 inclusive. The contingent
consideration would be satisfied 50% in cash and 50% by the issue of new shares. Chime has the right to pay a higher percentage in cash if it
so wishes.
For further detail on the calculation of deferred consideration provided see note 28.
39. Operating lease arrangements
The Group as lessee
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense for the year 34,479 36,001
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases,
which fall due as follows:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Within one year 127 109
In the second to fifth years inclusive 7,112 3,605
After five years 27,240 32,287
34,479 36,001
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for its office properties and for certain office equipment. Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 83
The Group as lessor
At the balance sheet date, the Group had contracted with tenants for the following future minimum lease payments:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Within one year 46 120
In the second to fifth years inclusive 343 2,034
After five years 6,399 –
Property rental income earned during the year was £999,000 (2007 – £912,000).
40. Share-based payments
Equity-settled share option plan
The Group operates four share plans; an executive share option scheme, an employee savings-related scheme, a deferred share scheme and a
Co-Investment Plan.
The exercise price of the options granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme is equal to the market value of the Company’s shares at the
time when the options are granted. The vesting period is generally three years but if they are special options it is five years. If the options remain
unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire. Furthermore, options are forfeited if the employee leaves the
Group before the options vest. All executive options granted from November 1997 (other than special executive options) are subject to
performance criteria as set out in the report to the shareholders on Directors’ remuneration.
The exercise price of the options granted under the employee Savings-Related Scheme is 80% of the market value at the date of offer. The vesting
period is five years, if the options remain unexercised six months after this date, the options expire. Furthermore, the options are forfeited if the
employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
Under the Deferred Share Plan, restricted shares are awarded to employees at nil cost to the employee. The vesting period is three years from the
date of award. If the employee leaves the Group before vesting then the restricted shares are forfeited. The employee receives the dividend on the
shares during the vesting period.
The matching shares awarded under the Co-Investment Plan are awarded to employees at nil costs. The vesting period is either 3.5 years or
four years depending on when the award was made. If the employee leaves the Group before vesting then the matching shares are forfeited. If the
employee disposes of any of their committed shares then the matching shares awarded would be reduced accordingly retrospectively.
The matching shares awarded are subject to performance criteria as set out in the report to the shareholders on Directors’ remuneration.
Share Options
2008 2007 restated
Weighted Weighted
average average
exercise price exercise price
Options (in £) Options (in £)
Outstanding at beginning of year 1,999,008 £2.468 2,812,841 £2.225
Granted during the year 290,311 £1.125 159,868 £2.350
Lapsed during the year (186,377) £2.048 (518,886) £2.703
Surrendered in the year (11,000) £2.218
Exercised during the year –– (454,815) £1.160
Outstanding at the end of the year 2,091,942 £2.320 1,999,008 £2.468
Exercisable at the end of the year 1,202,534 – 1,257,857
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was £nil (2007 – £1.160). The options
outstanding at 31 December 2008 had a weighted average exercise price of £ 2.320 (2007 – £2.468), and a weighted average remaining
contractual life of 1,543 days (2007 – 1,853 days). In 2008 options were granted on 18 May, the aggregate of the estimated fair values of the
options granted on that date is £67,483. In 2007 options were granted on 23 May, the aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options
granted on those dates is £84,334. Chime Communications plc 84
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
40. Share-based payments (continued)
The fair value was calculated using the Black-Scholes model (2007 – Black-Scholes).
In valuing the options, the following assumptions were used:
2008 2007
(restated)
Weighted average share price £1.400 £2.930
Weighted average exercise price £1.125 £2.350
Expected volatility 33.58 33.58%
Expected life – savings-related scheme 5 years 5 years
Risk-free rate 5.0% 5.5%
Dividend yield 2.50% 1.89%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous two years. The expected life
used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and
behavioural considerations.
Deferred Shares
2007
2008 restated
Deferred Deferred
Shares Shares
Outstanding at beginning of year 406,732 244,750
Awarded during the year 348,575 172,282
Lapsed during the year (50,450) (10,300)
Outstanding at the end of the year 704,857 406,732
The restricted shares were awarded on 28 May 2008. The share price at the date of award was £1.257 (2007 – £2.775). The remaining contractual
life is 579 days (2007 – 685 days). The estimated fair values of the restricted shares awarded is £346,644 (2007 – £370,459).
The fair value was calculated with reference to the share price at the date of award.
Co-Investment Plan
2007
2008 restated
Matching Matching
Shares Shares
Outstanding at beginning of year 2,923,000 2,591,000
Surrendered in the year (493,415) –
Granted during the year – 332,000
Outstanding at the end of the year 2,429,585 2,923,000
There were no matching shares awarded in the year. In 2007 the share price at the date of award was £2.425. The remaining contractual life is
626 days. The estimated fair value of the matching shares granted is £nil (2007 – £391,618).
The fair value of the matching shares allocated to the market-based performance criteria was calculated using the Monte Carlo model. Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 85
In valuing the shares, the following assumptions were used:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Weighted average share price – £0.498
Expected volatility – 33.58%
Expected life – 3.5 years
Risk-free rate – 5.02%
Dividend yield – n/a
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous two years.
The fair value of the matching shares allocated to the non-market-based performance criteria was made with reference to the share price at the
date of award discounted for expected dividends.
The Group recognised total expenses of £1,292,000 and £968,000 related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in 2008 and
2007 respectively.
41. Retirement benefit schemes
The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme for the benefit of the majority of employees. This is an independently administered
fund, the assets of which are held separately from those of the Company. The amounts charged in this year and the prior year are disclosed
in note 6.
42. Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in
this note (details of subsidiaries are included in note 16). Transactions between the Group and its associates are disclosed below. Transactions
between the Company and its subsidiaries and associates are disclosed in the Company’s separate financial statements.
Trading transactions
During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group:
Amounts Amounts Amounts Amounts
owed by owed to owed by owed to
Sale of Purchase related related Sale of Purchase related related
services of services parties parties services of services parties parties
2008 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Associates
Colour TV 30 – 16 – 67 –– –
Meropa –– 335 – –– 374 –
Rare Corporate Design 171 315 11 31 112 300 91 50
Rare Publishing 26 – – 3 –1 –
Someone 225 27 2– –– ––
X & Y Communications 35 53 112 35 41 – 49 –
Sales of goods to related parties were made on an arms length basis.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received. No provisions have been made
for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties. Chime Communications plc 86
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
42. Related party transactions (continued)
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories
specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Short-term employee benefits 2,989 2,508
Share-based payment 442 447
3,431 2,955
43. Financial instruments
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, bank overdraft, finance leases, cash and short-term deposits. The main purpose
of the financial instruments is to provide finance for the Group’s operations. The Group has various other financial assets and liabilities such as
trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from operations.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk. The policy for managing
these risks is reviewed and agreed with the Board.
The Group uses financial instruments to manage its bank borrowings, this is done by the use of foreign exchange rate swaps. The Group does not
hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial trading purposes but derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as
trading instruments. Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value at the contract date and continue to be stated at fair value at
the balance sheet date with gains and losses on revaluation being recognised immediately to the income statement.
Capital risk management: The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while
maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt,
which includes the borrowings discussed in note 27, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising
issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes 29 to 35.
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents 6,804 10,196
Bank loans – (8,375)
Finance leases (64) (102)
Loan notes outstanding (416) (907)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent (89,564) (73,074)
(83,240) (72,262)
Externally imposed capital requirement: Under the terms of the Group’s banking covenants the Group must meet certain criteria based on interest
and dividend cover and net debt to EBITDA. There have been no breaches of the banking covenants in the current or prior year.
Interest rate risk: The Group manages its interest rate risk by the use of fixed rate and variable rate financial debt. Fixed interest rates are for
periods of up to three months at a time. The interest rate margins paid by the Group on financial debt are disclosed in notes 26 and 27. Surplus
cash deposits earn interest based on LIBID. If interest rates had been 1% higher during the period under review the impact to profit before tax
would have been a decrease of £120,770 (2007 – £93,260), conversely if interest rates had been 1% lower during the period under review the
impact to profit before tax would have been an increase of £119,645 (2007 – £92,450). The impact on shareholders’ equity would have been
£116,025 (2007 – £65,280) if interest rates had been worse by 1%, and £82,155 (2007 – £64,740) if interest rates had been better by 1%.
Liquidity risk: On 20 August 2008, the Group agreed to committed facilities of £30 million. The facility matures in June 2013. There is also an
uncommitted facility available of £2 million, which is reviewed on a rolling basis. At 31 December 2008 the Group had net cash of £6,324,000. Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 87
Maturity of borrowings: The maturity profile for the anticipated cash flows including interest in relation to the Group’s borrowings on an
undiscounted basis and which therefore differs from both fair value and carrying value is as follows.
The borrowings are repayable as follows: £’000
On demand or within one year 464
In the second year 16
In the third to fifth year –
480
All other financial liabilities are considered current except the financial liability relating to the put option.
Foreign currency risk: Management does not believe foreign currency risk to be material. The Group has one overseas associate, Meropa
Communications (Pty) Limited, which trades in South Africa. At 31 December 2008 the Group had a debtor relating to the partial disposal of its
shareholding in Meropa. This is payable in South African rand and is valued at £80,370 which is payable within one year. No interest is payable on
these loans. The Group had not entered into forward currency transactions with regards this loan. Fluctuations in the value of the South African
rand against sterling would give rise to foreign exchange differences which would be taken through the profit and loss account.
The Group has nine overseas subsidiaries which trade in Europe, America and the Middle East. At 31 December 2008 the net foreign currency
monetary net assets were £1,565,401 (2007 – £627,000) in Europe, £1,237,013 (2007 – £218,992) in America and £9,790 (2007 – £nil) in the
Middle East.
The Group does on occasion agree to bill clients in a currency other than the local currency, it also makes some purchases overseas where the
supplier bills in their local currency. In some instances where it is viewed appropriate the proceeds from the client are kept in currency so as to
minimise the foreign exchange exposure on the transaction if there are third-party costs to be paid out of the funds in that currency. In this
instance the Group uses short-term foreign exchange swaps to manage the Group’s borrowings. The fair value of the swaps entered into at
31 December 2008 is estimated at £29,973 (2007 – £28,821). There were three swaps open over the year end. This amount is based on the
market values of equivalent instruments at the balance sheet date.
Market price risk: The Group’s exposure to market price risk comprises interest rate risk and currency rate risk. The Group regularly monitors these
exposures which, setting aside the interrelationships between such rates and their wider impact on the economy, are not considered to have a
significant impact on the Group.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities: At 31 December 2008 there was no material difference between the fair value of financial
assets and financial liabilities and their book value.
Credit risk: The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk to be as follows:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Trade receivables 38,813 35,691
Deferred consideration receivable 551 568
39,364 36,259
Further details of the ageing of trade receivables can be found in note 23 to the financial statements.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s customer base being large and unrelated. Chime Communications plc 88
Independent auditors’ report to the members of
Chime Communications plc
Independent auditors’ report
We have audited the parent company
financial statements of Chime
Communications plc for the year ended
31 December 2008 which comprise the
Company balance sheet and the related
notes 1 to 16. These parent company
financial statements have been prepared
under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the
Group financial statements of Chime
Communications Plc for the year ended
31 December 2008 and on the information
in the Directors’ remuneration report that is
described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s
members, as a body, in accordance with
section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that
we might state to the Company’s members
those matters we are required to state to
them in an auditors’ report and for no other
purpose. To the fullest extent permitted
by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the
Company and the Company’s members as
a body, for our audit work, for this report,
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors
and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing
the Annual Report and the parent company
financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are
set out in the Statement of Directors’
Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent
company financial statements in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards on
Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether
the parent company financial statements
give a true and fair view and whether the
parent company financial statements have
been properly prepared in accordance with
the Companies Act 1985. We also report to
you whether in our opinion the Directors’
report is consistent with the parent company
financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our
opinion, the Company has not kept proper
accounting records, if we have not received
all the information and explanations
we require for our audit, or if information
specified by law regarding Directors’
remuneration and other transactions is not
disclosed.
We read the other information contained in
the Annual Report as described in the
contents section and consider whether it is
consistent with the audited parent company
financial statements. We consider the
implications for our report if we become
aware of any apparent misstatements or
material inconsistencies with the parent
company financial statements. Our
responsibilities do not extend to any further
information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices
Board. An audit includes examination, on a
test basis, of evidence relevant to the
amounts and disclosures in the parent
company financial statements. It also
includes an assessment of the significant
estimates and judgements made by the
Directors in the preparation of the parent
company financial statements, and
of whether the accounting policies
are appropriate to the Company’s
circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as
to obtain all the information and explanations
which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give
reasonable assurance that the parent
company financial statements are free from
material misstatement, whether caused by
fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming
our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information
in the parent company financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the parent company financial statements
give a true and fair view, in accordance
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice, of the state of the
Company’s affairs as at 31 December
2008;
• the parent company financial statements
have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act
1985; and
• the information given in the Directors’
Report is consistent with the parent
company financial statements.
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and
Registered Auditors
London
11 March 2009 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 89
Company balance sheet
Year ended 31 December 2008
2008 2008 2007 2007
Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Fixed assets
Investment in subsidiaries 4 122,664 120,293
Other investments 5 350 350
123,014 120,643
Current assets
Debtors 7 825 7,539
Short-term investments 8 416 313
Cash at bank and in hand – 2,947
1,241 10,799
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 9 (5,990) (17,888)
Net current liabilities (4,749) (7,089)
Total assets less current liabilities 118,265 113,554
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 10 (14,428) (20,386)
Net assets 103,837 93,168
Capital and reserves
Share capital 12 14,264 13,319
Share premium account 12 37,121 32,217
Share-based payment reserve 13 3,063 1,771
Merger reserve 13 3,780 3,780
Capital reduction reserve 13 32,385 32,385
ESOP reserve 13,16 (4,952) (4,381)
Retained earnings 13 18,176 14,077
Equity shareholders’ funds 103,837 93,168
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 11 March 2009. They were signed on its behalf by:
Mark Smith, Director
Company balance sheet Chime Communications plc 90
1. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The separate financial statements of the Company are drawn up in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and United Kingdom generally
accepted accounting principles (UK GAAP).The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and
future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The particular accounting policies adopted are described below. They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the prior year.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as explained in the Directors’ Report.
Cash flow
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 1 “Cash flow statements” and has not produced a cash flow statement.
Financial instruments
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 29 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures” and has not produced any
disclosures required by that standard, as full FRS 29 disclosures are available in Chime Communications Plc Annual Report for the year ended
31 December 2007.
Related parties
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 “Related party disclosures” and has not reported transactions with fellow
Group undertakings.
Accounting convention
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention.
Investments
In the Company’s accounts, investments in subsidiary and associate undertakings are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
Deferred consideration
When earn-outs are to be settled in cash or shares with a fixed monetary value, the fair value of the consideration is obtained by discounting to
present value the amounts expected to be payable in the future.The resulting interest charge is included within finance costs of deferred consideration.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities, in respect of financial instruments, are recognised on the balance sheet when the Company becomes a
party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Company are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements
entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual
interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities and includes no obligation to deliver cash or other financial assets.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based compensation plans for the employees of subsidiary undertakings, using the
Company’s equity instruments.The fair value of the compensation given in respect of these share-based compensation plans is recognised as a
capital contribution to the Company’s subsidiary undertakings, over the vesting period. The capital contribution is reduced by any payments
received from subsidiary undertakings in respect of these share-based payments.
Dividends paid or received
Dividends paid and received are included in the financial statements in the period in which the related dividends are actually paid or received or, in
respect of the Company’s final dividend for the year, approved by shareholders.
Going concern
The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts which indicate that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for
the foreseeable future. In preparing these forecasts the Directors have taken into account the following key factors:
• The possible impact of the continued economic downturn on the Group’s business
• Key client account renewals
• The level of committed and variable costs
• Current new business targets compared with levels achieved in previous years
The Group currently has a borrowing facility of £32 million, which continues until July 2013. This facility is subject to banking covenants.
At year end the Company was not utilising its loan facility.
The Directors have concluded, based on the cash flow forecasts, that it is appropriate to prepare the accounts on a going concern basis.
Notes to the Company financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2008
Notes to the company financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2008 91
2. Profit of parent company
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss account of the parent company is not presented as part of these
accounts. The parent company’s profit for the financial year amounted to £6,318,000 (2007 – £6,971,000).
3. Equity dividends
The equity dividends paid from the Company are disclosed in note 11 of the consolidated financial statements.
4. Investments
Investments in
and loans to Equity
associated interest in
undertakings subsidiaries Total
The Company £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 December 2008 348 119,945 120,293
Additions – 921 921
Adjustment to prior year acquisitions – 1,218 1,218
Transfer of investment to subsidiary – (13) (13)
Loans to associated undertakings 59 – 59
Share-based payments – 1,292 1,292
Reduction of carrying value (29) (1,075) (1,104)
Foreign exchange (2) – (2)
At 31 December 2008 376 122,288 122,664
Investments in
and loans to Equity
associated interest in
undertakings subsidiaries Total
The Company £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 December 2007 294 84,264 84,558
Additions – 32,758 32,758
Adjustment to prior year acquisitions – 2,438 2,438
Loans to associated undertakings 54 – 54
Share-based payments – 968 968
Reduction of carrying value – (483) (483)
At 31 December 2007 348 119,945 120,293
5. Other investments
Other investments comprise unlisted equity investment in PSP Holdings Ltd. This has been recorded at cost, less any provision for impairment, as
its fair value cannot be reliably measured as there is no active market.
6. Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
The Company’s principal trading subsidiaries and associated undertakings, which are all incorporated in Great Britain (except where noted) are
listed in note 16 of the consolidated financial statements.
Notes to the company financial statements Chime Communications plc 92
7. Debtors
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Prepayments and accrued income – 39
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 772 7,403
Other debtors 53 97
825 7,539
Due within one year 825 7,539
Due after more than one year – –
825 7,539
8. Short-term investments
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Loan note cash deposit 416 313
The loan note cash deposit of £0.4 million (2007 – £0.3 million) relates to a cash deposit held on three months’ notice at Royal Bank of Scotland
plc. The deposit guarantees £0.4 million (2007 – £0.3 million) of the loan note creditors of £0.4 million (2007 – £0.9 million). Interest accruing on
the deposit is payable to the holders of the loan notes less any costs arising (see note 24 and note 25 of the consolidated financial statements).
9. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Bank overdraft 3,661 –
Deferred/contingent consideration 207 16,035
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 1,158 –
Loan notes 416 907
Current taxation 80 233
Other taxation and social security costs 4 7
Other creditors – 3
Accruals and deferred income 464 703
5,990 17,888
10. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Deferred/contingent consideration 14,428 12,011
Bank loans – 8,375
14,428 20,386
Due in more than one year but not more than two years 9,766 8,548
Due in more than two years but not more than five years 4,591 6,843
Due in more than five years 71 4,995
14,428 20,386
No interest attaches to the deferred consideration, which is payable in sterling and euros.
Notes to the company financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2008 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 93
11. Borrowings
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Bank loans – 8,375
Loan notes 416 907
416 9,282
Due within one year or on demand 416 907
Due in more than one year but not more than two years – 8,375
Due in three to five years – –
416 9,282
Maturity analysis
Bank overdraft/loans
Within one year or on demand – –
Between one and two years – 8,375
Between two and five years – –
Loan notes
Within one year or on demand 416 907
416 9,282
12. Share capital and share premium account
The movements on these items are disclosed in notes 29 and 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
13. Statements of movements on reserves
Share-based Capital Profit
payment Merger reduction ESOP and loss
reserve reserve reserve reserve account
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 1 January 2008 1,771 3,780 32,385 (4,381) 14,077
Retained profit for the year –– –– 6,318
Dividend payable –– –– (2,219)
Capital contribution given relating to share-based payments 1,292 –– ––
Purchase of own equity shares held in treasury –– – (571) –
Balance at 31 December 2008 3,063 3,780 32,385 (4,952) 18,176
Share-based Capital Profit
payment Merger reduction ESOP and loss
reserve reserve reserve reserve account
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 1 January 2007 803 3,780 32,385 (5,968) 11,214
Retained profit for the year –– –– 6,971
Dividend payable –– –– (1,561)
Capital contribution given relating to share-based payments 968 –– ––
(Purchase)/Disposal of own equity shares held in treasury –– – 1,587 (2,547)
Balance at 31 December 2007 1,771 3,780 32,385 (4,381) 14,077
Notes to the company financial statements Chime Communications plc 94
14. Contingent liabilities and commitments
In addition to the potential deferred consideration as shown in note 9 and 10 of £14,635,000 at 31 December 2008 there was a maximum
financial commitment of £19,101,033 relating to unprovided deferred contingent consideration payable in respect of acquisitions of subsidiary
undertakings. This relates to the acquisition of Fast Track Sales Limited (£12,245,000), The Corporate Citizenship Company Limited (£2,206,034)
and Stuart Higgins Communications Limited (£700,000) in 2007, MC Bio Communications Limited (£1,849,999) and Bankbrae Holdings Limited
(£2,100,000) in 2008.
Fast Track Sales Limited – The maximum contingent consideration payable is £25,000,000, however provision has only been made of £12,755,000
in the accounts to date (before discounting). The contingent consideration is a multiple of seven times earnings before interest and tax of the
average profits for the following periods: average of the three years 2007 to 2009 inclusive, and average of the three years 2010 to 2012 inclusive.
The contingent consideration would be satisfied by the issue of new shares until the amount of total consideration paid has been satisfied as to
50% in cash and 50% in new shares. Thereafter, the contingent consideration would be satisfied 50% in loan notes and 50% by the issue of new
shares. Chime has the right to pay a higher percentage in cash if it so wishes.
The Corporate Citizenship Company Limited – The maximum contingent consideration payable is £4,206,034, however provision has only been
made for £2,000,000 in the accounts to date (before discounting). The contingent consideration is a multiple of 4.75 times the average earnings
before interest and tax for the following periods: average of the three years 2007 to 2009 inclusive, and average of the two years 2010 to 2011
inclusive. The contingent consideration would be satisfied entirely in loan notes or cash.
Stuart Higgins Communications Limited – The maximum contingent consideration payable is £1,750,000, however provision has only been made
for £1,050,000 in the accounts to date (before discounting). The contingent consideration is a multiple of 4.5 times the average earnings before
interest and tax for the three years 2008 to 2010 inclusive. The contingent consideration would be satisfied 50% in cash and 50% by the issue of
new shares. Chime has the right to pay a higher percentage in cash if it so wishes.
MC Bio Communications Limited – the maximum contingent consideration payable is £2,249,999, however provision has only been made for
£400,000 in the accounts to date (before discounting). The contingent consideration is a multiple of four times the average profits before tax for the
following periods: average of the three years 2008 to 2010 inclusive, and average of the three years 2011 to 2013 inclusive. The contingent
consideration would be satisfied entirely in loan notes.
Bankbrae Holdings Limited – the maximum contingent consideration payable is £1,150,000, however provision has only been made for £200,000
in the accounts to date (before discounting). The contingent consideration is a multiple of 4.5 times the average profits before tax for the following
periods: average of the two years 2008 to 2009 inclusive, and average of the two years 2010 to 2011 inclusive.The contingent consideration would
be satisfied 50% in cash and 50% by the issue of new shares. Chime has the right to pay a higher percentage in cash if it so wishes.
15. Share-based payments
The Company currently uses a number of equity-settled share plans to grant options and shares to the directors and employees of its subsidiary
undertakings. As at 31 December 2008, the Company had 2,091,942 ordinary share options outstanding (2007 – 1,999,008 as restated).
The Company has made a capital contribution to its subsidiary undertakings in relation to share-based payments. At 31 December 2008, the
cumulative capital contribution net of payments received from subsidiary undertakings was £3.1 million (31 December 2007 – £1.8 million. During
the year ended 31 December 2008, the capital contribution arising from share-based payments was £1.3 million (2007 – 1.0 million). The Company
does not incur a profit and loss account charge in relation to share-based payments.
Full details of share-based payments, share option schemes and share plans are disclosed in note 40 to the consolidated financial statements of
Chime Communication plc.
16. Own shares
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Chime Communications plc purchased in the market and held by The Chime
Communications Employee Trust to satisfy options under the Group’s share options schemes, Deferred Shares Plan and the Co-Investment Plan.
Further details are disclosed in note 30 of the Group accounts.
Notes to the company financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2008 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 95
Information for shareholders
Information for shareholders
FINANCIAL CALENDAR 13 May 2009 Annual General Meeting: 12 noon,
14 Curzon Street, London W1J 5HN
27 May 2009 Ex-Dividend Date 2008 Final Dividend
29 May 2009 Record Date 2008 Final Dividend
19 June 2009 Payment of 2008 Final Dividend
26 August 2009 Announcement of 2009 Interim Results
23 September 2009 Ex-Dividend Date 2009 Interim Dividend
25 September 2009 Record Date 2009 Interim Dividend
16 October 2009 Payment of 2009 Interim Dividend
SHARE PRICE Share price at 31 December 2008 51.5 pence
High during the year (3 January 2008) 183.75 pence
Low during the year (22 December 2008) 49.5 pence
BALANCE ANALYSIS SUMMARY
Number of Number of Balance as at
holdings holdings 28 February
Range Individuals corporate bodies 2009 %
1 – 1,000 252 39 94,896 0.17
1,001 – 10,000 143 85 831,816 1.46
10,001 – 100,000 48 64 4,210,375 7.38
100,001 – 1,000,000 15 42 18,218,459 31.93
1,000,001 – 10,000,000 58 22,665,635 39.72
10,000,001 – to highest 01 11,036,718 19.34
Total 463 239 57,057,899 100.00 Chime Communications plc 96
Information for shareholders
PROFESSIONAL ADVISERS FINANCIAL ADVISERS AND
STOCKBROKERS
Numis Securities Limited
Cheapside House
138 Cheapside
London EC2V 6LH
AUDITORS
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants
London
United Kingdom
SOLICITORS
Slaughter & May
One Bunhill Row
London EC1Y 8YY
BANKERS
Royal Bank of Scotland plc
280 Bishopsgate
London EC2M 4RB
REGISTRARS
Computershare Investor Services plc
Registrar’s Department
PO Box 82
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol
BS99 7NH
web.queries@computershare.co.uk
Tel: 0870 889 3278
www.computershare.com
REGISTERED OFFICE
14 Curzon Street
London W1J 5HN
Registered in England No: 1983857
CONTACT DETAILS Chime Communications
14 Curzon Street
London W1J 5HN
www.chime.plc.uk
Lord Bell – Chairman
lord.bell@chime.plc.uk
Christopher Satterthwaite –
Group Chief Executive
csatterthwaite@chime.plc.uk
Mark Smith – Group Finance Director
msmith@chime.plc.uk
Robert Davison – Company Secretary
rdavison@chime.plc.uk
Information for shareholders Designed and produced by Rare Corporate Design
www.rarecorporate.co.uk 
This Annual Report is printed on FSC certified paper sourced from FSC certified
forests. Both the pulp and paper are manufactured under the environmental
standard ISO 14001. This paper is from an authentic renewable and sustainable
natural resource: no elemental chlorine compounds were used in its manufacture. 
The Chime Group helps clients create,
manage, monitor and market their
businesses, brands and reputations 
both in the UK and internationally. 
Chime is the holding company for the UK’s
leading public relations group, Bell Pottinger; 
the UK’s leading research and engagement
group, Opinion Leader; and one of the fastest
growing advertising and marketing services
groups in the UK, that includes VCCP, 
Teamspirit and Fast Track.
Contents 
Financial highlights 01
Chairman’s statement 02
Chief Executive’s review 04
Public Relations Division 06
Advertising and Marketing 
Services Division 16
Research and Engagement Division 26
Finance Director’s review 30
Board of Directors XX
Executive management team XX
Directors’ statement on corporate 
governance XX
Directors’ remuneration report XX
Directors’ report 
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities XX
Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of Chime Communications plc XX
Consolidated income statement XX
Consolidated statement of recognised 
income and expense XX
Consolidated balance sheet XX
Consolidated cash flow statement XX
Notes to the consolidated financial 
statements XX
Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of Chime Communications plc XX
Company balance sheet XX
Notes to the Company financial statements XX
Information for shareholders XX CHIME COMMUNICATIONS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007
“There is a global conversation going on about business, 
which is affecting everyone’s reputation. If you don’t take 
part in it, your reputation will suffer”. Lord Bell.
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Public Relations      Advertising and Marketing Services      Research and Engagement
Chime Communications plc
14 Curzon Street, London W1J 5HN
Tel: 020 7861 8515
E-mail: enquiries@chime.plc.uk
www.chime.plc.uk
CHIME COMMUNICATIONS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
