 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Public Relations          Advertising & Marketing Services          Sports Marketing          Insight & Engagement
Using your smartphone,  
scan this code to access  
enriched content or visit  
chime.plc.uk/online-report The Chime Group helps clients create, manage, 
monitor and market their businesses, brands and 
reputation both in the UK and internationally.
Chime is the holding company for the international  
public relations group, Bell Pottinger; one of the  
fastest growing advertising and marketing 
services groups, which includes VCCP and 
Teamspirit; one of the leading global sports 
marketing groups (CSM), and a market leading 
insight and engagement group (CIE). 
Operating income (£m) 
07  96.5
08  112.1
09  123.1
10  149.3 
11  163.6
Operating profit
2
 (£m) 
07  15.7
08  18.2
09  20.1
10  27.4
11  31.9
Earnings per share
1 and 2
 (p) 
07  17.15
08  20.19
09  22.46
10  24.38
11  26.56
Contents
 1 Highlights 
 2 Chairman’s Statement 
 8  Chief Executive’s Statement
 10 Divisional Review 
 16 Finance Director’s Report 
 18 Board of Directors 
 20  Executive Management Team
 23  Directors’ Statement  
on Corporate Governance
 34  Directors’ Remuneration Report 
 40 Directors’ Report
 46  Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities 
 47  Independent Auditor’s Report 
to the Members of Chime 
Communications plc 
 48  Consolidated Income Statement 
 49  Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
 50  Consolidated Balance Sheet 
 52  Consolidated Statement  
of Changes in Equity
 54  Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
 55  Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
 100  Independent Auditor’s Report 
to the Members of Chime 
Communications plc 
 101 Company Balance Sheet 
 102  Notes to the Company Financial 
Statements
 108  Information for Shareholders  
Operating income
(2010: £149.3m) 
£163.6m
Earnings per share
1 and 2
(2010: 24.38p) 
26.56p
Profit before tax
(2010: £21.2m) 
£24.7m
Operating profit margin
2
(2010: 18.3%) 
19.5%
Operating profit
2
(2010: £27.4m) 
£31.9m
Total dividend
(2010: 6.05p) 
6.58p
Financial Highlights
•	 Reported	profit	before	tax	up	16%	to	£24.7	million	 
(2010: £21.2 million)
•	 Reported	operating	income	up	10%	(2010:	21%)
•	 Reported	operating	profit	up	15%	to	£25.5	million	 
(2010: £22.1 million)
•	 Operating	profit	margin
2
 up to 19.5% (2010: 18.3%)
•	 Earnings	per	share	from	continuing	operations
1 and 2
  
up 9% to 26.56p (2010: 24.38p)
•	 Net	cash	as	at	31	December	2011	of	£3.3	million	 
(2010: £6.9 million)
•	 Total	dividend	of	6.58p	per	share	(2010:	6.05p),	 
an increase of 9%
Operational	Highlights
•	 Strong 	 performance 	 from 	 Sports 	 Marketing 	 and 	 Advertising
•	 Successful	realignment	of	business	mix	following	the	end	
of main American Government contract 
•	 Satisfactory	performance	of	Public	Relations	Division	
which now includes a strong healthcare business
•	 Continued 	 investment 	 and 	 expansion 	 in 	 Sports 	 Marketing
•	 VCCP	named	Marketing	Magazine’s	‘Advertising	Agency	
of	the	Year’
•	 Fast	Track	named	Marketing	Magazine’s	‘Sponsorship	
Agency	of	the	Year’
•	 Insight	and	Engagement	Division	continuing	to	recover
•	 Developed	digital	and	social	capability	organically	and	
through start-ups
•	 Further	international	expansion	–	total	of	27	overseas	
offices in 2011
Post Year End Highlights
•	 First	quarter	trading	so	far	in	line	with	management	
expectations	
•	 Discussions	continue	for	the	sale	of	certain	parts	of	the	
Public	Relations	Division	to	relevant	management
•	 Earnings	enhancing	acquisitions	of:
–	 McKenzie	Clark	–	a	sports	based	graphic	and	digital	
design business
–	 iLUKA	–	management	and	activation	of	major	sports	
based events
–	 Rough	Hill	(60%)	–	youth	marketing
–	 StratAgile	(40%)	–	data	analytics	based	in	Singapore
–	 Succinct	(announced	on	1	February	2012)
Chime Communications plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2011  1
Notes:
1. Reported fully diluted earnings per share was 19.8p (2010: 18.4p)
2.  Before taking account of amortisation of acquired intangible assets and impairment of goodwill 
(£3.3 million, 2010: £3.0 million) and costs relating to acquisitions and restructuring (£3.0 million, 
2010: £2.2 million). In the Income Statement this is referred to as Headline Operating Profit.
USE FLAT 
COVER 
ARTWORK
                             2 / 109  
2  Chime Communications plc
Summary of Results
	 2011	 2010	 2009	 2011	 2011	Like
	 	 	 	 	 for	Like
1
 £m £m £m % Change  % Change
Operating  
income 163.6 149.3 123.1 +10% +4%
Operating  
profit
2
 31.9 27.4 20.1 +16% +9%
Operating  
profit margin
2
 19.5% 18.3% 16.4%
Chairman’s	Statement
Notes:
1.  Like for Like comparisons are calculated by taking current year actual 
results (which include acquisitions from the relevant date of completion) 
compared with prior year actual results, adjusted to include the results of 
acquisitions for the commensurate period in the prior year.
2.  Before taking account of amortisation of acquired intangible assets and 
impairment of goodwill (£3.3 million, 2010: £3.0 million) and costs relating 
to acquisitions and restructuring (£3.0 million, 2010: £2.2 million). In the 
Income Statement this is referred to as Headline Operating Profit.
In 2011 Chime has had its seventh successive year 
of growth in operating income, operating profit and 
margin. We think this is an impressive achievement 
given the difficult economic conditions in 2011. The 
Group is well positioned for the future with a very 
positive year ahead for Sports Marketing in particular. 
We are making four earnings enhancing acquisitions 
which will continue to strengthen our offering in 
growth markets.
Review	of	Operations
2011 was a year in which the company continued to 
grow and improve its operating profit and margin.
The major highlight was the continued development 
of the Sports Marketing Division which through a 
combination of acquisitions and organic growth has 
evolved into a world class leading sports marketing 
agency. The sector is projected to grow 5% per year. 
We now have Sports Marketing offices in 11 countries 
and are ideally positioned to benefit from this growth. 
We have major contracts for the 2012 Olympics, 
including: 
• Organising the in-stadia activities for 18 Olympic 
sports and 8 Paralympic sports
• Activating Olympic sponsorship programmes for 
BT, GSK, G4S and the National Lottery 
• Handling on behalf of LOCOG all event look, 
branding and wayfinding across all Olympic venues. 
Also appointed to do the same for the GLA across 
London and all other UK cities involved in Olympic 
branding programmes
• Securing commercial partnerships with corporate 
sponsors for five Olympic sports: athletics, 
basketball, triathlon, gymnastics and paralympic 
sport
• Ambassador programmes for Oscar Pistorius, 
Roger Black, Sharron Davies and Mark Foster
• Providing strategic guidance on the Olympic 
Opportunity and hands on activation around guest 
engagement programmes for 12 Olympic clients 
including BP, Coca Cola, Samsung, NBC and the 
International Olympic Committee (iLUKA)
                             4 / 109  
• Undertaking detailed legacy studies around the 
Olympic Stadium and other venues for the Olympic 
Delivery Authority
As announced at the time of the interim results, our 
main contract with the American Government ended 
which resulted in some restructuring costs being 
incurred in 2011. The loss of profit from the client was 
largely compensated for by a major uplift in the Sports 
Marketing Division profits through the acquisition of 
Icon and a very good performance by the Advertising 
and Marketing Services Division. 
The Group acted for 1,815 clients in 2011 compared 
to 1,494 in 2010. 325 of these clients used more 
than one of our businesses (277 in 2010) which 
represented 68% of total operating income (2010: 66%).
242 clients paid us over £100,000 in 2011, compared 
to 205 in 2010. Our top 30 clients represented 45% of 
total operating income (2010: 49%). 
Our two largest clients represented 19% of operating 
income (2010: 21%). 
Average fee income per client in 2011 was £90,000 
compared to £100,000 in 2010. This reduction was 
caused by some of our acquisitions having a large 
number of small clients. The average fee income of 
our existing businesses remained at about £100,000. 
Average income per employee was £112,000 in 2011 
compared to £120,000 in 2010. Again this reduction 
was caused by acquisitions. In 2011, 47% of our 
income came from overseas work compared to  
51% in 2010. 
Divisional	Per for mance
In 2011, three of our four divisions showed growth 
in operating income and operating profit both like for 
like and in total. Excluding the American Government 
contract, the rest of the Public Relations Division 
showed growth. 
Public Relations represented 42% of operating income 
(2010: 49%), Advertising and Marketing Services was 
28% (2010: 26%), Sports Marketing was 25% (2010: 
20%) and Insight and Engagement 5% (2010: 5%). 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  3
Notes:
3.  Before taking account of amortisation of acquired intangible assets and 
goodwill impairment (£1.5 million, 2010: £1.7 million) and costs relating 
to acquisitions and restructuring (£0.8 million, 2010: 0.2 million). In the 
Income Statement this is referred to as Headline Operating Profit.
4.  Before taking account of costs relating to acquisitions and restructuring 
(£0.6 million, 2010: £nil). In the Income Statement this is referred to as 
Headline Operating Profit.
Public Relations 
	 	 	 	 Like 
	 2011	 2010	 %	 for	Like 
 £m £m Change  % Change
Operating income 69.2 72.8 –5% –7%
Operating profit
3
 17.5 17.5 – –1%
Operating profit margin
3
 25.2% 24.1%
Good growth was achieved in the financial, corporate, 
consumer, technology, Middle East and healthcare. 
Healthcare now represents over 4% of operating 
income of this division and this is expected to increase 
to over 10% in 2012.
New client wins included Weetabix, RIM, TalkTalk, 
Subway, Bathstore, Universal Music, Suzuki, Lotus, 
BSI, Berkeley Homes and Maersk Oil.
The first quarter of 2012 has also started well.
Advertising and Marketing Services 
	 	 	 	 Like 
	 2011	 2010	 %	 for	Like 
 £m £m Change  % Change 
Operating income 46.5 39.7 +17% +16%
Operating profit
4
 6.4 4.2 +52% +48%
Operating profit margin
4
 13.8% 10.6%  
Strong organic growth was achieved in most 
businesses, with good margin improvement. Specialist 
offerings in health, search and digital have all grown 
well with one third of income from this division now 
coming from start-ups in the last five years. 
New client wins included: easyJet, Carling,  
ancestry.co.uk and Saga, Tate & Lyle Sugars,  
Just Eat and a digital and social campaign for Spotify.
The	major	highlight	was	the	continued	
development	of	the	Sports	Marketing	Division	
which	thr ough	a	combination	of	acquisitions	
and organic growth has evolved into a world 
class leading sports marketing agency.
                             5 / 109  
4  Chime Communications plc
Sports Marketing 
	 	 	 	 Like 
	 2011	 2010	 %	 for	Like 
 £m £m Change  % Change
Operating income 40.0 29.4 +36% +16%
Operating profit
5
 7.7 5.6 +38% +7%
Operating profit margin
5
 19.2% 18.9%
Three earnings enhancing acquisitions were 
completed in 2011. Since its acquisition there has 
been strong growth in Icon. Fast Track Hong Kong 
and pmplegacy (event bidding consultancy) also grew 
strongly, the remainder of the business was flat in 
2011 but is well positioned for growth in 2012. 2012 
has started well, good organic growth is expected 
and many opportunities are already being identified, 
particularly in Brazil for 2013 and beyond. 
Major client wins included Renewal of UEFA 
Champions League three year contract for Icon, 
Baku (Azerbaijan) tender for the 2020 Olympic 
and Paralympic Games and Investec’s 10 year 
sponsorship of the test match cricket in the UK, 
HSBC’s title sponsorship of the Hong Kong Sevens 
and Carlsberg’s sponsorship of Euro 2012.
Note:
5.  Before taking account of amortisation of acquired intangible assets 
(£1.6 million, 2010: £1.2 million) and costs relating to acquisitions and 
restructuring (£0.2 million, 2010: £1.1 million). In the Income Statement this 
is referred to as Headline Operating Profit.
Note:
6.  Before taking account of amortisation of acquired intangible assets 
(£0.1 million, 2010: £0.1 million) and costs relating to acquisitions and 
restructuring (£nil, 2010: £0.8 million). In the Income Statement this is 
referred to as Headline Operating Profit.
Chairman’s	Statement	
(continued)
Insight and Engagement
	 	 	 	 Like 
	 2011	 2010	 %	 for	Like 
 £m £m  Change  % Change
Operating income 7.9 7.3 +8% +2%
Operating profit
6
 1.0 0.8 +35% +21%
Operating profit margin
6
 12.8% 10.3%  
This division has continued to recover and recorded 
good margin improvement. Tree, our data analytics 
business, continues to grow and the combined 
qualitative and quantitative business also grew.
Major account wins include Aviva, HMRC, Green  
Flag, O2, Post Office, Wellcome Trust and British  
Red Cross.
A new digital research business, Watermelon 
Research, has been started and it is already profitable.
                             6 / 109  
Corporate Activity
Our strategy remains to expand the range of services 
and geographical reach of the services we can offer  
to clients. 
We completed six acquisitions in 2011: 
Sports
• Icon – experiential marketing
• Essentially France
• Golden Goal – Brazil
Healthcare (part of Public Relations)
• Reynolds Mackenzie – public relations
• LEC – advertising
Marketing Services
• Gulliford Consulting – marketing consultancy
We have also announced the acquisitions of  
McKenzie Clark, a 60% interest in Rough Hill Limited 
and a 40% interest in StratAgile Limited. We have  
also entered into a conditional agreement to acquire 
iLUKA Limited (‘iLUKA’).
McKenzie Clark
Chime has acquired 100% of McKenzie Clark, a 
leading UK graphics and branding specialist, from 
Graham Clark and four minority shareholders for initial 
consideration of £600,000 in cash. Further tranches  
of deferred consideration totalling a maximum of  
£3.4 million may be payable depending upon the 
future trading performance of McKenzie Clark. 
At Chime’s option up to 50% of the deferred 
consideration may be satisfied through the issue  
of new Chime ordinary shares.
Rough Hill
Chime has acquired 60% of the share capital of 
Rough Hill Limited and certain other assets (together, 
‘Rough Hill’) from its three owners Jeremy Simmonds, 
Matthew Smith and Richard Moore (the ‘Rough Hill 
vendors’) for initial consideration of £480,000 in 
cash and the issue of 83,618 new ordinary shares in 
Chime and £180,000 in cash representing working 
capital of Rough Hill at acquisition that is surplus to 
requirements after Rough Hill joins the group. Rough 
Hill is a specialist agency focusing on youth marketing. 
Following acquisition one of Rough Hill’s businesses 
will be injected into a new company within VCCP – 
VCCP Live which will be 40% owned by Rough  
Hill’s vendors.
Following the 2012 results, deferred consideration 
may become payable in relation to the acquisition of 
the 60% stake which is capped at £46,000 and will 
be settled 70% in cash and 30% through the issue of 
new ordinary shares in Chime (although at Chime’s 
option the whole payment may be in cash).
In addition, the Rough Hill vendors have a put option 
exercisable between March 2016 and March 2020 
whereby they can require Chime to purchase some 
or all of their remaining 40% interest in Rough Hill 
at a price calculated in relation to the performance 
of the Rough Hill businesses but where the total 
consideration paid by Chime (including the initial and 
deferred consideration) cannot exceed £5 million. At 
Chime’s option 50% of any additional consideration 
may be satisfied through the issue of new ordinary 
shares in Chime.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  5
                             7 / 109  
6  Chime Communications plc
iLUKA
Chime has entered into a conditional agreement to 
acquire 100% of the share capital of iLUKA. iLUKA 
is a sports marketing agency that manages and 
activates major events on behalf of clients.
Chime is acquiring the business from its founders, Jon 
Hillman and Richard Giltinan and Managing Director, 
Felicity Shankar. Chime expects to complete the 
acquisition in March or April 2012.
For the year to 30 June 2011, iLUKA reported revenue 
of £5.8 million, gross profit of £3.7 million and a loss 
after taxation of £0.3 million. Gross assets at 30 June 
2011 were £0.25 million. 
The nature of iLUKA’s business is that it generally has 
positive cash flow and cash at completion is expected 
to exceed £6 million, reflecting cash paid in advance 
by clients.
On completion, Chime will pay an initial consideration 
of £4.0 million in cash and issue 555,361 new Chime 
ordinary shares. On completion, Chime expects its 
own net cash position to benefit by around £1 million.
Further tranches of deferred contingent consideration 
may become payable depending on the future trading 
performance of iLUKA in March 2013, March 2015 
and March 2018. Such deferred payments will not 
exceed £19.7 million and at Chime’s option 50% of 
each payment may be satisfied through the issue of 
new Chime ordinary shares.
StratAgile
Chime has acquired 40% of the share capital of 
StratAgile from its co-founder Thomas Suman Ann for 
an initial consideration of £190,000 in cash. StratAgile 
is a data analytics business based in Singapore.
Further tranches of deferred consideration totalling  
a maximum of £210,000 may be payable depending 
upon the future trading performance of StratAgile. 
30% of the deferred consideration may, at Chime’s 
option, be satisfied through the issue of new Chime 
ordinary shares.
Application will be made for the 83,618 new ordinary 
shares of 25 pence each in the capital of Chime  
(the ‘new ordinary shares’) being issued as part of  
the initial consideration for Rough Hill to be listed on 
the Official List of the Financial Services Authority 
and to be admitted to trading by the London Stock 
Exchange on its main market for listed securities.  
It is expected that dealings in the new ordinary shares 
will commence on 12 March 2012. The new ordinary 
shares will rank pari passu with Chime’s existing 
issued shares. Application will be made in due course 
for the issue of the 555,361 new Chime ordinary 
shares to be issued on completion of the iLUKA 
acquisition.
The issued share capital of the Company is currently 
81,212,838 ordinary 25p shares each with voting 
rights. Therefore, following admission of the new 
Chime ordinary shares issued in connection with 
the Rough Hill acquisition the issued share capital of 
the Company on 12 March 2012 will be 81,296,456 
ordinary shares each with voting rights.
Chime expects all these transactions to be 
immediately earnings enhancing.
Chairman’s	Statement	
(continued)
                             8 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  7
Possible Sale of part of the Public Relations 
Division
Discussions continue on the potential buyout of part 
of the Public Relations Division which represents less 
than 10% of Group profit. A further announcement will 
be made in due course.
Corporate and Social Responsibility
We have again made further progress with our 
corporate responsibility programme this year. We 
continue to work hard on the reduction of our carbon 
emissions, reducing our carbon footprint per full 
time employee in 2010 by 6.6%. We are currently 
calculating our footprint for 2011 and will publish the 
results in our CSR Report later in the year. We are 
expecting a further 5% reduction. Our processes 
are embedded within the business both in our office 
operations and in our external relationships with 
clients, suppliers and partners.
We have also expanded our training programme 
to deliver improved personal development for our 
staff at all levels. We continue to run our graduate 
scheme and have also twinned with a number of 
organisations to bring a community element to our 
staff volunteering. Great Ormond Street Hospital,  
The Passage, Childline, Scope, Shelterbox and 
Chernobyl Trust are amongst the selected partners  
of our trading divisions.
We continue to be listed on FTSE4Good Index and 
are proud to be a Carbon Trust Standard Bearer.
Outlook	
Chime Group’s strategy is designed to take 
advantage of the realignment that is occurring within 
the communications marketplace. We believe that 
a significant opportunity exists from exploiting the 
growing business opportunities in sport over the 
next ten years. As such, we anticipate a greater 
contribution from the sports marketing businesses in 
2012 and beyond. Chime’s Sports Marketing Division 
is one of the top five sports businesses in the world 
and it is well placed to benefit from the trends we  
are seeing.
Chime will remain a broadly based marketing 
communications group and in addition to the 
opportunities in Sport, will continue to focus on Public 
Relations (within which Healthcare is also expected 
to perform strongly and is another important driver 
for growth) but should also register good growth 
in Advertising and Marketing Services. This will 
be complemented by the recovery of Insight and 
Engagement which is expected to continue. 
We will make further earnings enhancing acquisitions 
and initiate start-ups which expand the range of 
services and geographies that we can offer to clients.
We will continue to prioritise both strong cost control 
and the retention of a high margin. We will also 
continue to manage the finances prudently.
Lord	Bell
Chairman
7 March 2012
                             9 / 109  
8  Chime Communications plc
Finding new ways to communicate is one of 
the	adaptations	most	r equir ed	of	or ganisations	
looking to deal with a rapidly changing world.
Adapting for continued growth
The ability to change, and to change quickly where 
necessary, is a great asset for any company. It has 
rarely been more valuable than during 2011. The 
robust performance of the Group over this past year 
is testament to our ability to help clients of all types 
adapt to a rapidly changing world.
Digital media continue to reshape the communications 
landscape and raise the stakes for organisations 
when it comes to reputation management. But 
these themes are now so familiar as to seem almost 
predictable when compared to other, more sudden 
shifts in economic, political and social norms: 
developed markets in a tailspin, political upheaval 
across the Middle East, the reappraisal of capitalism 
and demand for a new responsible approach to 
business that comes passionately from protestors, 
politicians and consumers. In such circumstances, the 
ability to adapt rapidly can bring swift and sustainable 
rewards; failure to do so can trigger a swift negative 
impact on the bottom line. 
Chime’s mix of activity reflects the growth of new 
channels – and the strength of our long-term 
specialisms. We have substantially accelerated the 
growth of our sports marketing business, CSM, 
increasing exposure to one of the great global 
communications opportunities in a fragmented 
media age. We first invested in sports marketing in 
2007, responding to increasing interest in sports 
sponsorship as a branding channel. Our sports 
marketing division has responded with continued 
growth across a range of services, with new business 
this year from Land Rover, Investec, GlaxoSmithKline, 
HSBC and LOCOG amongst others. In the UK, 
Marketing Magazine made Fast Track its Sponsorship 
Agency of the Year.
With the acquisition of the brand experience agency 
Icon and its integration into CSM, we now provide  
a full-service sports marketing offer, from consultancy 
and strategy through player representation to 
activation and communications, for both rights 
holders and sponsor brands. The further acquisition 
Chief	Executive’s	Statement
                            13 / 109  
of Brazil’s Golden Goal Sports Ventures has extended 
this offer to the setting for both the 2014 FIFA World 
Cup and the 2016 Olympic Games. Combined with 
our agencies’ existing presence in Qatar (host of the 
2022 FIFA World Cup), this gives the division a strong 
position at the centre of the global sporting agenda.
The growth of sports marketing has helped to offset 
challenges in other areas. For Bell Pottinger Group, 
the year saw the earlier than expected conclusion of 
a valuable but time-limited US government contract. 
However, with three of our largest agencies within 
the PR division posting strong growth, it is clear 
that demand for effective reputation management 
has been increased rather than dampened by the 
challenges facing business in the current environment. 
Advertising and Marketing Services operate in an 
environment shaped by the continuing economic 
downturn, but likewise this division has delivered 
strong growth during the year, outperforming its 
market to a significant degree. The increasing 
presence of VCCP in advertising saw it recognised 
alongside Fast Track as a Marketing Magazine 
Advertising Agency of the Year for 2011. In research, 
the area hardest hit by constraints on marketing 
budgets, we have stabilised our performance and 
delivered growth in revenues that, while modest in 
absolute terms, shows the competitive position that 
we occupy in the sector.
Nor is sports marketing the only area of opportunity 
to which we are increasing our exposure. From 
a standing start, we have created a significant 
contender in the European healthcare market through 
OPEN Health, our full-service network formed partly 
through the acquisition of LEC and the PR agency 
Reynolds Mackenzie. OPEN Health is ideally placed 
to take advantage of the sector’s move from recent 
challenges to renewed growth, triggered by an ageing 
population in the developed world and a burgeoning 
middle-class in the world’s growing regions. We have 
also continued to perform well in other specialised 
communication sectors with Teamspirit’s continued 
success in a more chaxllenging market for financial 
services agencies in 2011. 
Finding new ways to communicate is one of the 
adaptations most required of organisations looking 
to deal with a rapidly changing world. At the same 
time as stakeholders demand greater scrutiny of 
corporations, consumers also demand greater 
participation in their favourite brands. In sport, we are 
deeply involved in an increasingly popular channel 
for such participation; our advertising and marketing 
agencies have enviable reputations for orchestrating 
brand involvement; our PR agencies remain ideally 
positioned for helping clients meet the requirement 
for constant reputation management. Although many 
changes represent challenges, for the well-positioned 
business they inevitably create opportunity as well. 
The growth in revenue and profits delivered by the 
Group in such a challenging year attests to our long-
term strengths as well as our ability to adapt.
Christopher Satterthwaite
Chief Executive
7 March 2012
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  9
                            14 / 109  
Public	Relations	Division
The past year has refocused attention on the core 
expertise of Chime’s PR division – and demonstrated 
the continuing strength of its key agencies in a 
challenging economic environment. 
The division’s results have been driven by strong 
performances from its established agency brands. 
These contributions have offset the conclusion of a 
valuable but time-limited US government contract 
handled by Bell Pottinger Public Advocacy, and 
enabled the division to post significant net new 
business growth.
Strong performances from established  
agency brands
In a time of constrained marketing budgets, clients are 
increasingly looking to consumer PR to deliver efficient 
Return on Investment (ROI) for reduced expenditure – 
and Good Relations, which incorporates the division’s 
leading consumer PR offer, has delivered a strong 
performance with new business from Weetabix, 
Subway, Bathstore and The Prince’s Countryside 
Fund as well as the launch of the Nintendo 3DS in the 
UK. The agency also won significant corporate work 
from RIM and TalkTalk and demonstrated the impact 
potential of PR through successful work for Airbus; 
by using aircraft interiors to demonstrate the brand’s 
commitment to environmental responsibility.
During the year, the decision was made to realign the 
division’s consumer PR agency Resonate with the 
Bell Pottinger brand as Bell Pottinger Consumer. This 
brings further weight to our consumer PR offering, by 
leveraging another of our major agency brands more 
effectively in the space. 
Although the UK’s level of mergers and acquisitions 
continues to be affected by economic conditions, 
Pelham Bell Pottinger has successfully grown its 
share of the market on the back of another very 
strong year, ranking in the top ten in the Global M&A 
Mergermarket league tables of PR advisers. Amongst 
a number of projects, the agency was appointed by 
Universal Music to handle its proposed acquisition of 
EMI and advised Northumbrian Water in its  
£2.4 billion acquisition by Li Ka-Shing’s Cheung Kong 
Infrastructure Holdings (CKI). Pelham’s Singapore 
office worked closely with Corporate Citizenship to 
develop and communicate a corporate responsibility 
strategy for Golden Agri that addressed environmental 
concerns over its palm oil business.
Bell Pottinger Middle East continued to deliver 
strong growth despite the political instability 
experienced in the region. New clients included 
Mubadala Aerospace, to manage a global strategic 
communications programme supporting the business 
unit’s entire asset portfolio, and EIT, providing a PR 
campaign around our client’s 35% shareholding in 
Tunisie Telecom to increase media awareness and 
understanding of the significant role that foreign 
investment plays in the country’s economic  
growth strategy.
A raft of significant planning applications helped to 
drive the performance of Bell Pottinger Public Affairs, 
which managed major community and political 
engagement programmes for Berkeley Homes (in a 
successful application to Westminster Council for a 
£60 million development), and St James (securing 
permission for the Riverlight development on  
Tideway Wharf, soon to be a new district within 
Central London).
Insight, our regional public relations operation with 
offices in Manchester and Leeds, delivered another 
strong performance, including significant growth for 
inEvidence, our market-leading customer reference 
business that has significantly expanded its client 
base within the global technology sector.
Expanding capabilities
Alongside strong performances from established 
agencies, the PR division has invested in broadening 
its capabilities during the year, delivering immediate 
returns in the form of new revenue streams.
10  Chime Communications plc
Divisional	Review
                            19 / 109  
Bell Pottinger Public Relations’ strong year, which saw 
new business arriving from G4S, BSI and Lotus, also 
included significant growth for its recently established 
change management and internal communications 
specialism, led by Liam FitzPatrick, which delivered 
major projects for clients including Maersk Oil. 
The division has established its own specialist digital 
team under the leadership of James Thomlinson, 
with in-house capabilities in design, development, 
search engine marketing, social media and online 
reputation management that ensure a fully integrated 
response to client briefs. We recruited Claire 
Southeard as the division’s new Head of Content, 
reinforcing our production and distribution expertise 
for highly creative video content to support brand 
communications and PR, and extending exposure to 
a significant growth area in digital communications.
Investing in leadership
As a key element in broadening our division’s offer, we 
have invested in significant new leadership talent that 
is already helping to unlock new avenues of growth for 
a number of the division’s agencies.
David Beck and David Wilson have taken the role of 
Managing Directors for the division. Both have over 
two decades experience within Chime and in key 
client roles.
In her first year as Managing Director of Corporate 
Citizenship, Karin Laljani has staked out a strong 
position to drive new business in the Corporate 
Responsibility sector, with a focus on expanding our 
presence in international markets and building on 
success in the US and Far East. The agency was 
appointed by Mars to provide AA1000AS assurance 
of its Principles in Action summary and continues 
to help Unilever break new ground in CR with its 
Sustainable Living Plan. 
At Harvard, new Managing Director Louie St Claire 
has delivered a strong performance in his first year in 
the role, winning ten new clients in the second half of 
the year as well as launching a successful campaign 
to highlight Sky’s broadband offer through a digital IQ 
test, which was covered across the UK media. The 
arrival of Peter Roberts has added further weight to 
our expertise in issues & crisis management. 2012 
has also seen the introduction of former Marketing 
Week Editor Mark Choueke to add a valuable new 
perspective at the strategic level for the division  
as a whole.
Responding to opportunities in healthcare
We have responded to future growth prospects 
for the European healthcare market through the 
launch of OPEN Health, a full-service, regional 
healthcare marketing network formed partly through 
the acquisition of LEC and the PR agency Reynolds 
Mackenzie. We believe that the global healthcare 
market is poised for renewed growth as a result of 
ageing populations in the developed world and a 
rapidly expanding middle class in the world’s growing 
regions. OPEN’s well-established international 
expertise gives us a strong position from which to 
take advantage. 
Summary outlook
Despite challenging economic conditions, the outlook 
for the division remains positive. The past year has 
proven once again the robust nature of our major 
agency brands, whilst expansion of PR expertise 
into new areas has already delivered returns – and is 
expected to continue to do so over the coming year.
Advertising and Marketing Services  
Division	(AMS)
Times of disruption and change call for dynamic 
agencies and pro-active approaches to the market.  
In delivering a year of outstanding organic growth 
during challenging circumstances, Chime’s AMS 
division has again demonstrated its ability to evolve  
its offer to changing platforms and market 
opportunities, diversifying the range of services that it 
offers to clients and moving quickly to take advantage 
of new growth areas.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  11
                            20 / 109  
An evolving offer in rapid growth areas
VCCP Group has broadened its integrated 
communications services with the launch of VCCP 
Share, specialising in social media, which delivered 
growth in its first year. VCCP Content, which helps 
clients to deliver the depth of video content that their 
consumers increasingly demand through online and 
social platforms was also launched. In its second full 
year of operation, VCCP Health doubled profitability 
on the back of strong demand for high-quality 
consumer-facing campaigns, in a market in which 
there remains significant headroom for further growth.
An increasingly multi-dimensional offer has enabled 
the Group to continue to grow revenues through 
broadening the range of services it provides for 
existing clients. With VCCP Search continuing to 
deliver double-digit growth and the agency investing in 
its data analytics and brand consultancy capabilities, 
this process of diversification will continue to underpin 
performance going forward.
A continuing role for above-the-line
VCCP has continued to invest in its creative talent, 
with the arrival of four creative directors during the 
year. This expansion meets growing demand from 
clients for integrated, cross-platform solutions and  
will continue to ensure standout for VCCP’s work. 
Within an integrated, multi-platform offer, there 
remains a key role for above-the-line campaigns that 
can leverage traditional broadcast channels effectively 
and extend their impact to other media. In a year 
that saw the Group receive Marketing Magazine’s 
Advertising Agency of the Year award, VCCP 
delivered high-profile and highly effective work for O2, 
Compare the Market, More Than, Coors Light and 
easyJet.
International reach
Diversification of services is one source of the 
Group’s ability to defy market conditions; increasing 
geographical reach is another. The VCCP Group 
offices established in Berlin and Prague during the 
previous year both performed well during 2011. 
Strong client demand exists for further expansion in 
several key territories, with the Group expected to 
launch two new offices in 2012.
Summary outlook
The fundamentals of the business are strong – 
and suggest continued growth despite economic 
challenges. The pitch conversion rate for VCCP 
Group stands at well over 50%; its creative product 
continues to receive industry recognition and to 
generate impressive results. And in search, social 
media and content generation it operates in the cost-
effective, performance-driven areas of marketing that 
are most attractive to clients in the current climate. 
Robust performance in financial services
A broader range of services has proven equally 
valuable in the financial services market, where 
the division’s specialist agency, Teamspirit, has 
maintained stable revenues despite significant 
challenges for the sector from increased regulation 
and the continuing economic downturn. Teamspirit’s 
public relations business grew by over 20% during the 
year with Axa Wealth, Audley Retirement Homes and 
CMC Markets amongst their key new business wins. 
Teamspirit’s growing portfolio of award-winning social 
media and content work, together with its proven 
track record for engaging the increasingly valuable 
over-50s audience, position it well to stay ahead of 
the growth curve for the sector as a whole.
Chime	Sports	Marketing	Division	(CSM)
The contribution of sports marketing to Chime’s 
bottom line has increased every year since the Group 
first entered the sports marketing industry in 2007. 
Today the CSM division contributes roughly one third 
of Group revenues – a proportion that we expect to 
increase still further over the medium term.
Divisional	Review	
(continued)
12  Chime Communications plc
                            21 / 109  
2011 has been another year of significant 
development and strong organic growth for the 
division; 2012 will be another. However, the 
opportunities for sports marketing are not restricted 
to the year in which London hosts the Olympic and 
Paralympic Games. The investment and geographical 
expansion undertaken by CSM have left the Group 
well positioned to remain at the centre of the global 
sporting agenda for the next decade and beyond.
Acquisitions during the year
The year saw two significant acquisitions for the 
division. The experiential and branding agency Icon 
became part of the Group in March and provided an 
immediate contribution when it won a major contract 
to manage and deliver look, wayfinding and branding 
for the London Organising Committee of the Olympic 
Games (LOCOG). Icon is an exciting business, a world 
leader in wayfinding and venue dressing for major 
events from outdoor concerts to UEFA Champions 
League fixtures. The agency will also handle all event 
branding at the UEFA European Championship 
tournament in Poland and Ukraine during 2012 and 
is one of only a small group of agencies capable of 
serving the branding needs of such major sports 
events. As such it creates extensive synergies with our 
existing, multi-dimensional sports marketing offer and 
we look forward to introducing the Icon offer across a 
range of global markets.
In May, the Group also acquired Golden Goal, a 
Brazil-based business specialising in sponsorship 
consulting, event management and hospitality 
programmes. Golden Goal provides CSM with a 
firm foothold in one of the most important sports 
marketing territories for the next decade, host country 
for both the 2014 FIFA World Cup and the 2016 
Olympic and Paralympic Games, as well as one of 
the world’s fastest-growing economies. There are 
immediate opportunities to leverage the expertise of 
Icon and pmplegacy, our sports events consultancy, 
with a well-established specialism in legacy planning. 
Brazil also provides a natural arena of opportunity for 
our worldwide portfolio of sports sponsorship clients.
Strong growth across existing operations
Our existing business operations, which cover sports 
consultancy, marketing and sponsorship, hospitality 
programmes, event and legacy planning, perimeter 
sales and athlete representation, delivered strong 
organic growth during the fiscal year. The Rugby 
World Cup in New Zealand provided a series of 
highlights and showcased the division’s expertise 
in leveraging a range of opportunities around major 
sporting events. CSM agencies represented over 70% 
of the victorious All Blacks squad, managed hospitality 
programmes and events around all tournament 
matches, consulted on raising awareness for both the 
New Zealand government and the International Rugby 
Board, and activated sponsorship programmes for 
brands such as HSBC, Land Rover, Emirates, KPMG 
and others. 
Further work included a broad range of sponsorship 
activations for Emirates covering Football (Arsenal, 
PSG and five FIFA tournaments including the FIFA 
Women’s World Cup), Cricket (Durham County 
Cricket Club and the ICC Cricket World Cup), Horse 
Racing (The Yorkshire Cup) and Hockey (East 
Grinstead Hockey Club). For HSBC, Fast Track now 
works across a full range of global sponsorship assets 
in Rugby, including the British and Irish Lions, the 
successful launch of HSBC Sevens World Series  
this year, and clubs and tournaments worldwide.  
For Investec, Fast Track brokered a 10-year 
sponsorship of Test Match Cricket in the UK,  
the longest deal in the history of the England and 
Wales Cricket Board (ECB).
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  13
                            22 / 109  
14  Chime Communications plc
International expansion
Other areas of growth and new business success 
reflect the increasing geographic diversity of the 
business. The city of Baku in Azerbaijan appointed 
pmplegacy to handle its tender for the 2020 Olympic 
and Paralympic Games. Our Spanish office has 
worked closely with Real Madrid, advising on 
sponsorship rights strategy. Our new office in Hong 
Kong, serving HSBC and also clients in mainland 
China, is in addition to our existing operations in the 
Middle East in Qatar, Dubai and Abu Dhabi.
Summary outlook
t
Insight	and	Engagement	Division	(CIE)
After returning to growth during 2010, Chime’s 
Insight and Engagement Division (CIE) continued to 
out-perform its sector in 2011, delivering year-on-
year growth in a challenging market for research. 
The division exceeded its budget forecasts as it 
leveraged its full-service research offer with a focus 
on demonstrable ROI, actionable insights and value-
adding consultancy for clients.
During the year, CIE has expanded its client portfolio 
and reinforced its reputation for delivering quality 
work in key sectors such as financial services, retail, 
telecommunications and automotive. Demand from 
the public sector is growing following significant 
drops in spend, and the division’s expertise in this 
area remains market-leading. The international scope 
of CIE’s work continues to grow, with the division 
undertaking projects covering markets from China to 
New Zealand, the US and Europe. 
A commitment to integration
CIE’s consistently improving performance has been 
underpinned by a commitment to integration. The 
division operates as a single, full-service agency 
offering and draws on expertise from across its 
operations to deliver the most appropriate and 
efficient response to its clients’ business objectives. 
As a result, a very significant proportion of the 
division’s projects now include work from two or more 
agencies and disciplines. This bespoke approach 
fits well with client demand for greater integration 
of qualitative and quantitative research, with an 
emphasis on key numbers and actionable insights, 
and a significant shift towards consumer choice in 
research techniques. A multi-mode strategy, which 
puts the emphasis on consumers choosing how they 
engage with research, is increasingly important in 
driving response rates and effectiveness.
The value of integration is not limited to CIE’s own 
intra-agency offering. The capability for integrating 
research findings with internal segmentation studies 
and metrics (sales figures or recorded complaints, for 
example) is central to delivering clear, holistic analysis 
– and leveraging full value for clients.
Divisional	Review	
(continued)
                            23 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  15
Investing in talent
Such trends in the marketplace have proven the value 
of investing in leadership talent from the client side. 
The development of CIE’s leadership team along 
these lines has played a significant role in driving 
performance during the year. A clear understanding of 
client challenges and the ways in which research will 
be consumed and acted upon, helps CIE to deliver 
reports that are tailored to different functions and roles 
within an organisation. These reports are designed 
to deliver clear action plans and to provide positive 
roadmaps for improvement and growth. The potential 
for applying results to drive ROI is increasingly the 
yardstick by which research is measured.
An expanding digital offer
Digital technologies and platforms are an ever-more 
important feature of the research market. The division 
has continued to expand its capabilities in fields such 
as Interactive Voice Response (IVR), to ensure that we 
deliver the scale and efficiencies that clients demand 
in a time of budget constraints. Innovative application 
of digital technology does more than simply deliver 
cost savings, however. A key part of the division’s 
evolving offer is the ability to provide real-time insights 
that track performance by store, branch or dealership 
– and provide management with a rapid-response tool 
for identifying and addressing issues as they emerge. 
Technologies that can deliver immediate value in this 
way are central to the changing role of research – and 
the division is well-placed to provide them.
Summary outlook
The successes of 2011 demonstrate the strength 
of the position now occupied by CIE – and prove 
that there is still potential for growth in the research 
market, especially for agencies with an integrated offer 
designed to work as hard as possible for clients.
                            24 / 109  
16  Chime Communications plc
Finance	Director’s	Report
Headline and Statutory results
In this Annual Report where headline results are 
shown they are prepared to provide an indication of 
the Group’s underlying business performance.
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
The Group manages its internal operational 
performance using a number of KPIs. The most 
important of these are as follows:
 2011 2010
Headline operating profit
1
 £31.9m £27.4m
Reported operating profit £25.5m £22.1m
Headline operating profit margin
1
 19.5% 18.3%
Reported operating profit margin 15.6% 14.8%
Diluted headline EPS
1
 26.56p 24.38p
Diluted reported EPS 19.78p 18.43p
Headline profit before tax
1
 £31.0m £26.5m
Reported profit before tax £24.7m £21.2m
Average fee income per client £90,000 £100,000
Average fee income per employee £112,000 £120,000
% of operating income from clients  
shared by more than one business  
in the Group 68% 66%
% of operating income from  
international work 47% 51%
Operating	pr ofit,	pr ofit	befor e	tax	and	 
earnings per share
Headline operating profit
1
 increased by 16.5% to 
£31.9 million (2010: £27.4 million) and headline profit 
before tax
1
 increased by 17.2% to £31.0 million  
(2010: £26.5 million). Headline diluted earnings per 
share
1
 increased from 24.38p in 2010 to 26.56p in 
2011, an increase of 8.9%. Reported operating profit 
increased by 15.4% to £25.5 million (2010: £22.1 
million) and reported profit before tax increased by 
16.2% to £24.7 million (2010: £21.2 million). Reported 
diluted earnings per share increased from 18.43p in 
2010 to 19.78p in 2011, an increase of 7.3%.
Cash flow and banking arrangements
Net cash at 31 December 2011 was £3.3 million 
compared to £6.9 million at 31 December 2010.  
The Group continued to generate cash in 2011 with 
cash from operating activities of £12.9 million (2010: 
£16.4 million).
The Group continues to operate well within its  
banking covenants and retains its borrowing facility  
of £32 million which continues until July 2013.
Deferr ed	consideration
Maximum deferred consideration payable under 
existing earn out agreements is £55.6 million of which 
£21.7 million (net of discounting of £0.8 million) has 
been provided for as at 31 December 2011. Amounts 
provided for at the current year end are based on 
management’s best estimate of likely future payments.
Details of the maximum amount payable, by 
agreement, are included in note 31 to the financial 
statements.
The estimated deferred considerations payable  
in 2012 and 2013 total £13.6 million, of which  
£7.9 million is payable in cash and £5.7 million in 
shares, or cash at Chime’s discretion. There are no 
deferred considerations payable after April 2018.
Note:
1.  Before taking account of amortisation of acquired intangible assets and 
impairment of goodwill (£3.3 million, 2010: £3.0 million) and costs relating 
to acquisitions and restructuring (£3.0 million, 2010: £2.2 million).
                            15 / 109  
Capital	expenditur e	and	investment
Total capital expenditure for 2011 was £5.0 million 
(2010: £2.3 million). The main categories of 
investment are leasehold improvements (£1.8 million) 
and fixtures and fittings including IT (£3.1 million).  
The increase during 2011 is largely as a result of  
the consolidation of the Sports Marketing division  
into one building.
Procurement
The Group operates a central procurement function 
which uses the power of the Group to ensure that 
all businesses buy materials and services as cost 
effectively as possible.
Pensions
All the Group’s employees are entitled to contribute to 
the Group’s pension scheme or to personal pension 
schemes. These are defined contribution schemes.
T axation
The effective tax rate for 2011 was 27.6% compared 
to 28.4% in 2010 after excluding the cost of 
impairment of goodwill and costs of acquisitions, 
neither of which is tax deductible. Including these 
items, the effective tax rate for 2011 was 30.3% 
compared to 30.6% in 2010.
Dividends
The Board is proposing to pay a final dividend of 
4.50p per share (2010: 4.21p), giving a total dividend 
per share of 6.58p compared to 6.05p in 2010, an 
increase of 9%. The final dividend will be paid on  
15 June 2012 to those shareholders on the register  
at 25 May 2012. The expected ex-dividend date is  
23 May 2012.
Finance costs
Finance costs net of interest receivable were  
£0.4 million (2010: £0.4 million). In addition there was 
a charge of £0.8 million (2010: £0.7 million) in relation 
to the finance cost of deferred consideration.
Treasury policy
The Group’s treasury policy is detailed in note 35 to 
the financial statements.
Capital structure
The Group is financed primarily through equity but  
has available credit facilities as detailed above.
Mark Smith
Chief Operating Officer & Finance Director
7 March 2012
Income from  
shared clients (%) 
09  70
10  66
11  68
International  
income (%) 
09  46
10  51
11  47
Operating profit 
margin
1
 (%) 
09  16.4
10  18.3 
11  19.5
Average fee income  
per client (£’000) 
09  89.0
10  100.0 
11  90.0
Average income  
per employee (£’000) 
09  118.0
10  120.0
11  112.0
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  17
                            16 / 109  
Lord	Bell 
Chairman
Piers Pottinger 
Deputy Chairman 
Christopher Satterthwaite  
Chief Executive
Mark Smith 
Chief Operating Officer & 
Finance Director
18  Chime Communications plc
The Board of Directors is responsible for overall 
strategy, acquisitions, resourcing and the 
consideration of significant financial matters. It meets 
four times annually and additionally if required. It 
reviews the strategic direction of the Group’s trading 
companies, their annual budgets and their progress 
towards achievement of agreed targets. It is also 
responsible for the integrity of financial information 
and ensuring the financial controls and the systems of 
identification and management of risk, both financial 
and non-financial, are robust and appropriate. The 
Board has three standing committees: the Audit 
Committee, the Nominations Committee and the 
Remuneration Committee.
Lord	Bell,	aged	70	–	Chairman
Lord Bell is one of the best known figures in the 
United Kingdom communications industry. He helped 
found Saatchi & Saatchi in 1970, and as International 
Chairman he took Saatchi & Saatchi into its position 
as the first British No. 1 worldwide advertising agency 
in 1981. He successfully ran the publicity campaigns 
for the Conservative Party for the general elections in 
1979, 1983 and 1987. 
He was appointed Deputy Chairman of Lowe Howard-
Spink Bell plc in 1985 and remained in that position 
until the formation of Chime Communications in 1989. 
He advises the chairmen of many of Britain’s leading 
companies and organisations as well as foreign 
heads of state and international business leaders and 
politicians. He was awarded a knighthood in 1990 
by Lady Thatcher in her resignation honours and a 
peerage by Tony Blair. 
Piers	Pottinger,	aged	58	–	Deputy	Chairman
Following three years at J Henry Schroder Wagg 
Co Limited, Piers Pottinger spent three years as an 
analyst with stockbrokers Laurence Prust. In 1978, he 
joined Charles Barker. He spent two years as Director 
of Media Relations at Manufacturers Hanover Trust 
in New York before returning to London as Managing 
Director of Sterling Financial Public Relations in 1982. 
He joined Good Relations City (later Bell Pottinger 
Corporate and Financial) as Managing Director in 
1985 and was also a Director of Good Relations 
Group plc. He is a trustee of Racing Welfare, Vice 
President of the National Society for Epilepsy and 
Chairman of The Foundation for Liver Research. 
Christopher	Satterthwaite,	aged	55	–	 
Chief	Executive
Christopher Satterthwaite began his commercial 
career as a graduate trainee at H.J Heinz. Since 
his grounding on the client side, he has been part 
of three different kind of marketing communication 
agencies: IMP (1981-1993), then the UK’s largest 
Sales Promotion and Direct Marketing agency; HHCL 
& Partners (1993-2000) – Campaign’s Advertising 
Agency of the Decade; Bell Pottinger (2000-2002) – 
the UK’s leading Public Relations agency.
He is Senior Independent Director of Centaur Media; 
Chairman of The Roundhouse; a Trustee of the 
Watts Gallery and; a member of the Government’s 
Professional and Business Services Group.
Mark	Smith,	aged	56	–	Chief	Operating	Officer	
and	Finance	Director	
Mark Smith has been a Chartered Accountant since 
1978, having qualified with Touche Ross & Co (now 
Deloitte LLP). Following two years as European 
Finance Director at RCA Records, he joined Good 
Relations Group plc in 1984 and became its Group 
Finance Director in 1985. In 1986 he became Finance 
Director of Lowe Bell Communications (now Bell 
Pottinger Group) and Finance Director of Chime 
Communications at the time of the management 
buyout in 1989. Since 1989 he has also been 
responsible for all Chime’s corporate transactions 
including joining the Stock Exchange through a 
reverse takeover in 1994. Mark was appointed Chief 
Operating Officer in January 2011. Mark is a Non-
Executive Director of Holiday Extras Holdings Limited. 
Rodger	Hughes,	aged	63	–	 
Senior	Non-Executive	Director	
Rodger Hughes is a Chartered Accountant who was 
a partner in PricewaterhouseCoopers for 25 years, 
including four years as Managing Partner and seven 
years as Head of the Assurance Practice. He has 
had extensive experience advising a wide range of 
Board	of	Directors
Rodger Hughes 
Senior Non-executive * # @
Hon. Richard Alston  
Non-executive # @
Catherine Biner Bradley  
Non-executive *
Paul Richardson 
Non-executive * # @
COMPANY	SECRETARY 
Robert Davison
* Member of the Audit Committee
# Member of the Remuneration Committee
@ Member of the Nominations Committee
                            26 / 109  
clients on business issues and was for some years 
the firm’s advertising industry leader. He was, until 
2007, Auditor to the Duchy of Cornwall. Rodger is 
a non-executive member of the board of Simmons 
and Simmons, the international law firm. He was a 
member of the Steering Board of Companies House 
until 31 December 2010 and a Non-Executive Director 
of Friends Provident plc until its takeover in late 2009. 
The	Honourable	Richard	Alston,	aged	70	–	 
Non-Executive	Director	
Richard Alston is currently a member of the 
international advisory board of London based hedge 
fund, CQS and associated companies. He is also 
a member of the Asia Pacific regional advisory 
board of Alcatel-Lucent and an adviser to a listed 
Australian energy company. He has served on the 
boards of a number of publicly listed Australian 
companies, including Hansen Technologies, UCMS 
and Broadcast Services Australia, of which he was 
Chairman. He is Chairman of the Melba Foundation, 
which produces Melba Recordings, and a member of 
the Bell Shakespeare Foundation. Since 2004 he has 
been an Adjunct Professor in the Business School at 
Bond University, Queensland.
From 2005-2008 he was Australian High 
Commissioner to the UK and from 1996-2003 he 
was Federal Minister for Communications, Information 
Technology and the Arts. Prior to entering the 
Australian Parliament, where he served as a Senator 
for Victoria from 1986-2004, he was a barrister with 
an extensive practice in the common law, commercial 
and administrative law. 
 
Catherine	Biner	Bradley,	aged	58	–	 
Non-Executive	Director	
Catherine Biner Bradley is a Swiss lawyer, with offices 
in Geneva and Vaud, who specialises in business 
law and in Swiss and international tax planning. She 
founded Bourquin & Biner Bradley, where she remains 
a partner today. She serves on the board of Directors 
of a number of Swiss and international companies. 
She was a Director of COLT Telecom plc for five 
years, commencing with its initial listing on the London 
Stock Exchange, serving during that period on its 
Audit and Compensation Committees. 
Paul	Richardson,	aged	54	–	 
Non-Executive	Director	
Paul Richardson became Group Finance Director of 
WPP plc in December 1996 after four years with the 
Company as Director of Treasury. He is responsible 
for WPP’s worldwide finance function, including 
external reporting, taxation, procurement, property, 
treasury and internal audit. Previously he spent six 
years with the central team of Hanson plc financing 
major acquisitions and disposals. He is a Chartered 
Accountant and a member of the Association of 
Corporate Treasurers. He is also a Non-Executive 
Director of S.T.W. in Australia and Ceva Group PLC. 
Robert	Davison,	aged	54	–	Company	Secretary	
Robert joined the Group in 1987 as Group Services 
Manager, became Assistant Company Secretary in 
1994 and Director of Administration in 1998. Prior 
to joining the Group he worked in the music industry 
for ten years, initially for PolyGram, including working 
on the launch of the compact disc format in Europe, 
and later with RCA Records. In his current role he is 
additionally responsible for the Group’s centralised 
functions such as IT, property, HR, legal services and 
risk management. Robert is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  19
                            27 / 109  
20  Chime Communications plc
The Executive Management Team is made up of 
three elements; executive directors; senior executives 
each with management responsibility for an individual 
trading division; and representatives of the business 
development and commercial aspects of the Group’s 
operations. They meet monthly to discuss the 
implementation of strategy, progress made in meeting 
targets, resourcing and other group-wide issues 
and initiatives. The Team discuss individual divisional 
issues in addition to those common across the Group 
in order to ensure best practice and experience is 
pooled in meeting the Group’s goals. 
Piers Pottinger, aged 58
(For biographical details see page 18) 
Christopher Satterthwaite, aged 55 
(For biographical details see page 18) 
Mark Smith, aged 56
(For biographical details see page 18) 
Crispin Beale, aged 39
Crispin Beale is Chief Executive Officer of Chime’s 
Insight and Engagement Division. 
Crispin is one of the UK’s leading market research 
specialists and has just been re-elected to the 
Board of the MRS (Market Research Society) for 
a third consecutive term. Crispin has a reputation 
for insightful and strategic vision, coupled with an 
entrepreneurial and dynamic approach to business. 
Crispin was promoted to CEO of Chime’s Insight 
and Engagement Division in 2010, having delivered 
record turnover and profits at Facts International in his 
previous position as Chief Executive of the company.
 
Prior to working for Chime, Crispin held a number of 
influential and senior roles including Marketing Services 
Director at Royal Mail Group plc, running insight, 
intelligence and analysis across Royal Mail, Post Office 
Ltd and Parcelforce Worldwide. Crispin was also 
responsible for advertising, including the launch of 
the, still running, ‘Peoples Post Office campaign’ and 
was a key player in the launch of Post Office Financial 
Services and Post Office Telephony. Prior to this, 
Crispin was Head of Customer Satisfaction for BT plc. 
Crispin joined BT plc from Dixons Stores Group where 
he was Head of Research and Customer Action.
 
Crispin originally qualified as a Chartered Accountant 
with Coopers & Lybrand, specialising in financial 
services, before moving to PricewaterhouseCoopers 
in marketing/consultancy roles.
David	Beck,	aged	49
David Beck is Joint Managing Director of the Bell 
Pottinger Group.
David has over 25 years experience in public relations. 
He was Managing Director of Bell Pottinger’s financial 
public relations business until 2002 when he was 
appointed Director of Communications at Marconi.  
In this role he was responsible for all internal and 
external communications globally. He returned to 
the Bell Pottinger Group in 2009 as Client Services 
Director before being appointed Group Managing 
Director in 2011.
David’s major clients in his time at Bell Pottinger 
have included; BSkyB for whom he handled its IPO 
communications; ASDA who he advised for ten years 
from 1990–2000 through to and beyond the sale to 
WalMart; Thames Water during its privatisation and 
for over ten years thereafter including two regulatory 
reviews and the disposal to RWE; Abbey National, 
where he helped defend the business from a hostile 
approach from Lloyds TSB; PWC, who he advised 
on all crisis management issues for over ten years 
including the collapse of both the Maxwell Group 
and Barings Bank. His current clients include Fujitsu, 
Suzuki Motor Corporation and Canary Wharf Group.
Bart Campbell, aged 41
Bart Campbell is Chief Executive of Essentially 
Group and the Chief Operating Officer of the Sports 
Marketing Division at Chime, CSM.
Bart has worked in the sports industry, as a lawyer, 
athlete manager and sports marketer since 1994.  
Executive	Management	Team
                            73 / 109  
In his native New Zealand he attained a BA, LLB 
and M Com Law (hons). He founded Global Sports 
Management in 1999 which became the world’s 
leading rugby union player management business, 
representing many of the leading figures in world rugby.
The business was acquired by Essentially Group plc 
in May 2006 with Bart becoming Group CEO later 
that year. Bart completed the Advanced Management 
Programme at Harvard Business School in 2010. He 
is the Non-Executive Chairman of TLA Worldwide plc.
Adrian Coleman, aged 47
Adrian Coleman is Chief Executive of the VCCP 
Partnership, having been one of the founding partners 
of VCCP when it was formed in 2002. 
Prior to this he was Chief Executive of the AMD Group 
(Chime-owned) where he oversaw the media group, 
responsible for publishing, design and online, as well 
as advertising. Before joining AMD, Adrian was a 
partner at HHCL & Partners, a Director of IMP and he 
started his career working for Exxon on the client side.
Overall, he has a broad understanding of the 
marketing mix through his previous experience.
Sue Farr, aged 55
Sue Farr leads Chime’s strategic and business 
development programme. 
A marketer by background, she has worked for 
both clients and agencies. Most of Sue’s client-side 
career was spent in broadcasting, firstly as Director of 
Corporate Communications for Thames Television plc 
(1990-1993) and as Director of Marketing for the BBC 
(1993-2000). Her agency experience includes WCRS, 
CDP and Golin Harris.
Sue is a Trustee of Historic Royal Palaces, a  
Non-Executive Director at Motivcom plc and a  
Non-Executive Director of Dairy Crest plc. Sue was 
voted Advertising Woman of the Year in 1997, a 
WACL Woman of Achievement in 1998 and awarded 
The Marketing Society ‘Grand Prix’ in 1998. She was 
awarded an Honorary Doctorate by the University of 
Bedfordshire in 2010.
Jim Glover, aged 46
Jim Glover is the Chief Executive of the Sports 
Marketing and Entertainment Division of Chime, CSM.
Jim started his career at IMG managing golfers. 
In 1994 he set up Lighthouse Communications 
specialising in advising corporate clients in the world 
of Sports Marketing. In 2005 he sold that business 
to Fast Track where he took over the role of joint 
managing Director for the merged company. In 2007 
he helped oversee the sale of Fast Track to Chime 
Communications and is now the CEO of the Sports 
and Entertainment Group within Chime called CSM. 
The Group operates in 12 International markets and 
employs over 550 people across a growing number  
of specialisms.
Kevin Murray, aged 57
Kevin Murray is Chairman of Chime’s Public  
Relations Division.
He specialises in the field of strategic communications, 
brand building and reputation management. He has 
years of experience advising chairmen and chief 
executives. Kevin is also the author of the bestselling 
book on leadership communication entitled:  
“The Language of Leaders.”
 
Previously he was Director of Communications 
for British Airways and, before that, Director of 
Corporate Affairs for AEA Technology, the science 
and engineering business that was floated off from 
the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority. Prior 
to AEA, Kevin was Group Public Relations Manager 
for Bayer in the UK. He is also a former national 
newspaper journalist, magazine publisher and 
marketing director.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  21
                            74 / 109  
22  Chime Communications plc
Alan Pascoe, MBE, aged 64 
Alan Pascoe is Chairman of the Chime Sports 
Marketing Division (CSM).
Following a successful athletics career he represented 
Great Britain at three Olympic Games and won a silver 
medal, Alan became involved in sponsorship, where 
he has worked for over 30 years. This has involved 
managing and delivering major Sports events and 
entertainment programmes, acting as a consultant to 
some of the world’s leading brands, and creating and 
organising some of Britain’s most successful events. 
In the mid-1980s, Alan set up API, which grew to 
become one of the top three sponsorship, television 
and sports marketing companies in the world. 
After selling API, Alan established Fast Track as  
a specialist sponsorship consultancy, and CSM has 
grown around Fast Track (Sports Marketing Agency  
of the Year in 2012). 
In 2003, Alan was appointed Vice-Chairman of the 
successful London 2012 Olympic Bid. 
CSM now employs over 500 specialists, operating  
in four major sectors of the industry, with offices in  
12 countries around the world.
Jo Parker, aged 46
Jo is Chief Executive of Teamspirit, the financial 
services specialist agency that has been a part of 
Chime for 13 years.
A founding partner of Teamspirit, Jo has always 
believed that specialist agencies best serve clients 
that work in complex markets. She is a passionate 
advocate of integrated marketing and has developed 
Teamspirit’s offering on this basis. Its services 
span marketing consultancy, brand development, 
advertising, marketing communications, and digital. 
Four years ago she set up Teamspirit Public Relations 
of which she is Chairman, which was the 2nd fastest 
growing PR consultancy in the UK last year.
Ian Priest, aged 48
Ian Priest is one of the founding partners of VCCP. 
Having started his career below-the-line he became a 
director of IMP, then a partner and Managing Director 
of HHCL & Partners. He now heads up Chime 
Ventures, a unit dedicated to backing entrepreneurs 
in new areas of marketing communications to 
complement existing companies within the Chime 
Communications Group. He also chairs Chime’s 
Digital Innovation Group and is a member of the  
IPA Council.
Nick	Taylor,	aged	59	
Nick Taylor is Group Commercial Director.
Nick began his commercial career as a graduate 
trainee in the aerospace and medical divisions of 
Smiths Industries plc. In 1979 he founded Harvard 
Public Relations, which went on to become one of 
Europe’s leading TMT consultancies with offices 
in London, Paris and Munich. Following Harvard’s 
acquisition by Chime in 2000, Nick joined the 
Executive Management Team with responsibility  
for Chime’s overseas offices; he is also a member  
of the Corporate Development Team handling  
M&A activity. Nick is a Non-Executive Director of 
Merityre Specialists.
David	Wilson,	aged	46	
David Wilson is Joint Managing Director of the Bell 
Pottinger Group.
David joined Bell Pottinger in 2000 to lead a global 
communications strategy and plan for Emirates 
Airline, a client he continues to support today. He is 
also responsible for major accounts with G4S, Saab 
Technologies and Group Lotus. An international 
brand-building specialist, he has worked across 
many client sectors and geographic boundaries – 
representing governments, major corporations and 
individuals. David previously headed four business 
practices at Bell Pottinger – namely Business & Brand, 
Change & Internal Communication, Digital and Issues 
& Crisis Management. Having begun his career as a 
journalist, he held senior in-house roles with  
P&O Ferries, British Airways and Pfizer, before  
joining Bell Pottinger.
Executive	Management	Team
(continued)
                            75 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  23
Chairman’s	Introduction	
The Directors’ Statement on Corporate Governance 
is prepared in order to give guidance to both 
investors and our wider stakeholders on how Chime 
is managed. The Board is committed to providing 
investors with a clear picture of the steps we take to 
operate appropriately and effectively. In this report we 
attempt to convey our attitude to the provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code in addition to our 
application of good management using the Code as 
our minimum standard. 
The Board continues to provide strong guidance to 
the Company with the interests of our shareholders 
as our overriding goal. The following statement is 
constructed to inform both existing and potential 
stakeholders of our robust approach to matters of 
governance. We will continue to monitor and report 
on performance against best practice and as always 
welcome comments from shareholders on current or 
additional disclosures.
Lord	Bell
7 March 2012
Directors’	Statement	on	Corporate	Governance
                            78 / 109  
24  Chime Communications plc
Corporate Governance Report
The Company is committed to the principles of 
Corporate Governance contained in the 2010 UK 
Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council (the “Code”) for which the Board is 
accountable to shareholders.
Directors	and	the	Board	
Board Balance
The Board is comprised of four Executive and four 
Non-Executive Directors all of whom were Directors 
throughout the year. The biographies of each are 
shown on pages 18 and 19.
Board Effectiveness
The Board meets quarterly and additionally as 
necessary and is responsible for overall Group 
strategy, acquisitions and the consideration of 
significant financial matters and major areas of risk. 
It reviews the strategic direction of the Group’s 
trading companies, their annual budgets and their 
progress towards achievement of those budgets. 
The Board is responsible for ensuring the integrity of 
financial information and that the financial controls and 
systems of risk management, both financial and non-
financial are robust and appropriate.
New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored 
induction on joining the Board in order to further 
inform them of the Group’s activities and structure.  
All Directors are able to take independent professional 
advice, at the Group’s expense, in the furtherance of 
their duties, if necessary. The Company also makes 
appropriate training available to all existing Directors.
When absence from meetings is unavoidable, 
the views of the Director concerned are sought in 
advance then put to the meeting in order to facilitate 
a comprehensive discussion. Each Director continues 
to make themselves available to their fellow Directors 
and ensures he/she contributes to the major decisions 
before the Board.
Executive Directors are entitled to accept external 
appointments outside the Company and retain the 
fees from such appointments provided that the 
Chairman’s permission is sought and confirmed by 
the Board.
Chairman,	Chief	Executive	and	Senior	
Independent	Director
The Chairman, Lord Bell, ensures that all Directors 
receive sufficient, accurate and timely information 
on financial, business and corporate issues prior to 
meetings. He also ensures that the Non-Executive 
Directors have access to any further supplementary 
information they require should they request it.
The Chief Executive’s (Christopher Satterthwaite) 
responsibilities focus on co-ordinating the Group’s 
business and implementing its strategy. He is also 
a member of the Executive Management Team as 
detailed on page 20.
Rodger Hughes is the Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director and is also Chairman of each of the 
standing committees.
Non-Executive	Directors
The Board considers its current Non-Executive 
Directors to be of sufficient calibre and number 
that their views be of sufficient weight that no 
individual or small group can dominate the Board’s 
decision making process. Their qualifications and 
experience is relevant to their directorships and in their 
appointments to the Committees where relevant. 
Directors’	Statement	on	Corporate	Governance
(continued)
	 	 Audit		 Remuneration	 Nominations 
 Board Committee Committee Committee
Number	of	meetings 5 3 4 0
Executive	Directors
Lord Bell 5* N/A N/A N/A
Piers Pottinger 5 N/A N/A N/A
Christopher Satterthwaite 5 N/A N/A N/A
Mark Smith 5 N/A N/A N/A
Non-Executive	Directors
Rodger Hughes 4** 3* 4* 0*
Hon. Richard Alston 4** N/A 4 0
Catherine Biner Bradley 4** 3 N/A N/A
Paul Richardson 4** 3 4 0
*Indicates Chairman
**The additional meeting took place with the consent of the full Board to further discuss the detail of the acquisition of Maidstone Road Holdings Ltd.
                            79 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  25
The Non-Executive Directors’ terms and conditions 
of appointment are available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office on request and will 
be available, together with the Executive Directors’ 
service contracts, at the forthcoming AGM. 
Independence	of	Non-Executive	Directors
The Code states that it is for the Board to determine 
whether a Director is independent in character and 
judgement and consider whether there are any 
relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect 
a Director’s judgement.
In applying the Code, the Board has considered a 
number of factors in determining the independence  
of each Non-Executive Director.
Length of Service
The length of service of each Non-Executive 
Director has been considered in determining their 
independence (see chart below). 
The Board has considered whether the length 
of service of Paul Richardson (14 years) has 
compromised his independence. He is experienced 
and accomplished in his fields of expertise. In his 
association with the Group he has acquired an 
understanding of the Group’s operations, its markets 
and the issues determining its success. He has shown 
commitment to the Company in both time and effort. 
The Board does not consider his long service to be 
detrimental or to have eroded his objectivity and it 
should not raise any concerns about his ability to 
perform his duties to the benefit of the shareholders.
The Board has also considered the length of service 
of Catherine Biner Bradley. Catherine is a lawyer 
specialising in business law and international tax 
matters and additionally has experience from 
membership of Boards and Audit Committees of 
major companies. Her knowledge and experience of 
legal and risk management issues continues to be 
exercised in the performance of her duties and this is 
complemented by her knowledge of the Group gained 
during her service. The Board does not consider her 
long service as a Director to be detrimental or to have 
eroded her objectivity and it should not raise concerns 
about her ability to perform her duties to the benefit of 
the Company’s shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors’ Shareholdings
The question of Non-Executive Directors’ 
shareholdings should also be considered when 
assessing independence. Rodger Hughes and 
Catherine Biner Bradley each hold a small number 
of shares in the Company as disclosed on page 39. 
The Board considers that these holdings are not 
significant and believes this should not raise questions 
regarding their independence. The Board considers 
that Directors owning shares in the Company directly 
aligns them with the interests of the shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors’ Representing  
a Shareholder
Shareholder representation by a director is a criterion 
on which under the Code independence is also 
assessed. Paul Richardson is WPP’s representative 
on the Board as provided by the subscription 
agreement approved by shareholders in 1997. 
Paul is Group Finance Director of WPP Group, a 
company operating in similar markets to Chime, and 
he therefore has relevant and current knowledge and 
skills that are beneficial to the Board.
Board Assessment
In the past, annual appraisals by external investor 
research analysts have recommended that 
shareholders vote against, or abstain from, any 
proposed re-election of Non-Executive Directors 
due to a perceived non-compliance with the Code 
regarding the criteria quoted above. The Code 
requires companies to ‘Comply or Explain’.  
We believe we have continually and consistently  
met this requirement.
We believe long term knowledge of our business 
brings our Non-Executive Directors the benefit of 
informed consideration of the issues. The holding of 
shares (within certain limits) or representation of a 
substantial shareholder by a non-executive director, 
is evidence of that Director’s belief and commitment 
to the business and further aligns them directly 
with the interests of our shareholders. The Board 
therefore considers each Non-Executive Director to 
be independent in both character and judgement 
and believes there are no circumstances that give 
rise to question their respective judgements when 
considering matters before the Board.
Non-Executive	Directors	Length	of	Service
	 	 Last	Re-elected	by		 Length	of	Service	 
Director	 First	Appointed	 Shareholders	 at	Next	AGM
Rodger Hughes* July 2007 May 2011 4 years 9 months
Hon. Richard Alston July 2008 May 2011 3 years 9 months
Catherine Biner Bradley September 2001 May 2011 11 years 8months
Paul Richardson December 1997 May 2011 14 years 5 months
*Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
                            80 / 109  
26  Chime Communications plc
Performance Evaluation
The Board has a formal evaluation process to review 
the effectiveness of each of the Directors, the Board 
itself, the Standing Committees and the processes 
used by those forums. Areas for evaluation include:
• Board organisation, structure and membership
• The conduct of meetings
• The responsibilities of the Board
• The performance of the Board and its processes
• The information provided to Non-Executives
• The effectiveness of the management process from 
the Board to lower levels of management
The Remuneration Committee evaluated the 2011 
performance of the Executive Directors in early 2012.
At the start of each year the Committee agrees 
personal key performance indicators for each 
Director. (Further details are included in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on page 34.) Performance 
against these forms part of the evaluation by the 
Committee at year end. Individual application and 
developments during the year are also taken into 
account when judging overall performance.
The performance evaluations of the individual 
Executive Directors for 2011 did not identify any areas 
of concern.
Non-Executive	Directors	–	 
Performance Evaluation
The Executive Directors, led by the Chairman, are 
responsible for the assessment of the performance of 
the Non-Executive Directors. The Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director is consulted during this 
process except for evaluation of his own performance.
The process of performance evaluation is designed 
to consider all elements of performance including 
any perceived shortcomings, training or development 
needs and unforeseen tasks and responsibilities that 
have arisen during the year.
Whilst no KPIs are set for individual Non-Executive 
Directors, the time, effort and application applied in 
the performance of their duties for the Board and, 
where applicable, Committees is taken into account.
Performance evaluations of the Non-Executive 
Directors have shown a continued good record 
of involvement in Board discussions and each 
contributes additional help in furthering the 
development and delivery of the Group’s strategies. 
The evaluations assessed both performance of duties 
and whether each director should be considered 
independent.
Retirement and Proposed Re-Election  
of	Directors
In 2011 and in accordance with recognised best 
practice, the Company adopted a policy of annual 
re-election of all directors at each AGM. This is in line 
with the Code provisions for FTSE 350 companies 
and the Board believes governance is best served  
by doing so.
Biographies of each Director are shown on page 18. 
The appointment and subsequent re-election of 
directors by shareholders is shown on page 25. 
The Board, the Committees and the 
Management 	 Process 	 – 	 Performance 	 Evaluation
In line with the requirements of the Code, the 
Company additionally carries out annual performance 
evaluations of the Board, the Committees and the 
processes utilised by each forum. The aim of the 
evaluation is to recognise the strengths and address 
any weaknesses and consider improvements to the 
management process. The evaluation is designed to 
ensure that the Board meets its objectives and that 
effectiveness is maximised.
This evaluation addresses such issues as:
• the frequency of meetings and the business 
transacted;
• the workload of each forum;
• the timing, level of detail and appropriateness of 
information put before meetings;
• the reporting process from Committees to the 
Board and delegation process itself;
• the levels of expertise available within the 
membership of the Committees and the need for, 
selection and use of external consultants.
The performance evaluations of the Board and 
Committees did not identify any issues of concern 
or failure or incapacity to perform the duties for 
which they are convened or in meeting the duties as 
summarised above.
Audit Committee
Summary of the Role of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee’s terms of reference include all 
matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency 
Rule 7.1 and the Code.
The Audit Committee is responsible for:
• monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of 
the Group and any formal announcements relating 
to the Group’s financial performance together with 
reviewing significant financial reporting judgements 
contained therein;
Directors’	Statement	on	Corporate	Governance
(continued)
                            81 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  27
• reviewing the Group’s internal financial controls 
and, unless expressly addressed by the Board itself, 
the Group’s internal control and systems of risk 
management;
• monitoring and reviewing the resourcing and 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function 
and allied processes;
• making recommendations to the Board for a 
resolution to be put to the shareholders for their 
approval in general meeting, for the appointment 
of the external auditors and the approval of their 
remuneration and terms of engagement;
• reviewing and monitoring the external auditors’ 
independence and objectivity and the effectiveness 
of the audit process, taking into consideration 
relevant UK professional and regulatory 
requirements; and
• monitoring and, where appropriate, approving the 
parameters for the engagement of the external 
auditors to supply non-audit services taking into 
account relevant guidance regarding the provision 
of non-audit services by the external audit firm.
The Audit Committee reports its findings to the 
Board, identifying any matters on which it considers 
that action or improvement is required, and makes 
recommendations on the steps to be taken.
The	Committee	and	the	External	Auditors
The Audit Committee is responsible for the 
development, implementation and monitoring of the 
Group’s dealings with its external auditors. Oversight 
and responsibility for monitoring the independence, 
objectivity and compliance by the external auditors 
with ethical and regulatory requirements lies with the 
Committee, and day-to-day responsibility is delegated 
to the Group Finance Director.
The external auditors are jointly responsible to the 
Board and the Audit Committee but the Committee 
is the primary contact. The Committee has a formal 
policy for the engagement of the external auditors to 
supply non-audit services and monitors such use on a 
regular basis.
The external auditors were represented at each of 
the Audit Committee meetings during the year and 
may request a meeting of the Committee without 
management being present if necessary.
Membership of the Committee
Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the 
Chairman of the Committee and the Group Chairman 
(who is not a member of the Committee) at regular 
intervals and where appropriate they recommend 
new appointments to the Nominations Committee 
for assessment and onward recommendation to 
the Board. The Committee is comprised of three 
independent Non-Executive Directors, which is the 
minimum membership required under the Terms of 
Reference. Two members constitute a quorum.
The Audit Committee is required to include one 
financially qualified member (as recognised by the 
Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies). 
Currently the Audit Committee Chairman, Rodger 
Hughes, and Paul Richardson both meet that 
requirement.
The Audit Committee in 2011
In 2011 the Audit Committee discharged its 
responsibilities by performing the standing duties 
summarised above and the following activities:
• considered proposals and provided guidance for 
the implementation of a revised group-wide risk 
management process.
• reviewed the internal audit plan and the results of 
internal audit reviews;
• considered and agreed the company’s delivery of a 
response to the Bribery Act 2010;
• monitored the continuing development of the 
Company’s contingency plans;
• considered the response to new and revised 
legislation and regulatory requirements;
• reviewed the Group’s draft preliminary and interim 
results statements prior to Board approval and 
reviewed the external auditors’ detailed reports 
thereon;
• reviewed the Group’s interim management 
statements and pre-close period updates prior to 
their release;
• reviewed the appropriateness of the Group’s 
accounting policies;
• reviewed regularly the impact on the Group’s 
financial statements of matters such as the 
adoption of new International Financial Reporting 
Standards;
• recommended to the full Board, which adopted the 
recommendation, the reappointment of Deloitte LLP 
as the Group’s external auditors and reviewed the 
external auditors’ plan for the audit of the Group’s 
accounts, which included key areas of scope of 
work and key risks on the accounts;
• confirmed auditor independence and the proposed 
audit fee and approved the terms of engagement 
for the audit;
• agreed a formalised policy on the use of the 
company auditors for non-audit work.
The Audit Committee has considered reports made to 
it by the executive management of the Group, which 
assesses the major business risks and the control 
                            82 / 109  
28  Chime Communications plc
environment against the criteria for assessing internal 
financial controls which are set out in the guidance for 
Directors on reporting on internal control. The Audit 
Committee has reported to the Board that it has been 
able to review the effectiveness of the Group’s system 
of internal financial control for the accounting year 
and the period to the date of approval of the financial 
statements.
The 	 Committee 	 and 	 the 	 External 	 Auditors 	 in 	 2011
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence 
of the external auditors in 2011, the Audit Committee 
reviewed:
• the external auditors’ plan for the current year, noting 
the role of the Senior Statutory Audit Partner, who 
signs the audit report and who, in accordance with 
professional rules, has not held office for more than 
five years, and any changes in the key audit staff;
• the arrangements for day-to-day management of 
the audit relationship;
• a report from the external auditors describing their 
arrangements to identify, report and manage any 
conflicts of interest; and 
• the overall extent of non-audit services provided by 
the external auditors in addition to its case-by-case 
approval of the provision of non-audit services by 
the external auditors within previously set criteria. 
The Group has a policy for the employment of the 
auditors for non-audit work. The auditors work on 
tax issues and other matters closely related to their 
role as the Company’s auditors but any increase in 
fees is strictly controlled by the Audit Committee. 
Any other non-audit assignments can be awarded to 
the auditors during the year but only where fees and 
the scope of work remains within Audit Committee 
approved limits.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, 
the Audit Committee reviewed:
• the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors’ 
independence and objectivity;
• the external auditors’ fulfilment of the agreed audit 
plan and any variations from the plan;
• the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors 
in their handling of the key accounting and audit 
judgements; and
• the content of the external auditors’ reporting on 
internal control.
Following the above, the Audit Committee has 
recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP is  
re-appointed.
Remuneration Committee
Summary of the Role of the Remuneration 
Committee
Rodger Hughes is Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee.
The Committee measures the performance of the 
Executive Directors and of key members of senior 
management as a prelude to recommending their 
annual remuneration. Performance is measured 
against key performance indicators set by the 
Committee at the beginning of the year (for further 
details see page 35). 
The Committee is also responsible for overseeing 
grants under the Company’s Co-Investment Plan, 
Executive Share Option Scheme, the Savings-Related 
Share Option Scheme and the Deferred Share Plan to 
employees of the Group.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is 
recommended by the Chairman and Chief Operating 
Officer and takes account of the time spent on Board 
and Committee matters. Final decisions are made by 
the Board but no Director takes part in any discussion 
regarding his or her own remuneration.
When required the Chairman, Lord Bell, and/or Mark 
Smith, the Chief Operating Officer attend the meetings 
but are not actually members. In December 2010 the 
Board appointed Richard Alston to the Committee 
from 1 January 2011. 
The Remuneration Committee in 2011
The Committee met on four occasions during the 
year. During 2011 the Committee:
• Agreed the level of bonus awards to the Executive 
Directors and Company Secretary for 2010;
• Reviewed and approved the maturity of the 2008 
grant of the Deferred Share Plan;
• Agreed the maturity of the 2006 grant of the 
Savings Related Option Scheme;
• Agreed the 2011 grant of options under the Savings 
Related Option Scheme;
• Considered and agreed the levels of participation 
and performance targets of a grant of award under 
the 2010 Co-Investment Plan;
• Considered and agreed the key performance 
indicators for each of the Executive Directors and 
Company Secretary for 2011;
• Agreed Executive Directors’ and Company 
Secretary’s salary levels for 2012;
Directors’	Statement	on	Corporate	Governance
(continued)
                            83 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  29
• Considered proposals for incentive schemes for 
senior management of the Company;
• Reappointed Towers Watson as executive 
remuneration consultants to the Company.
The	Nominations	Committee
Summary	of	the	Role	of	the	Nominations	
Committee
Rodger Hughes is Chairman of the Nominations 
Committee.
The Committee leads the process of appointments 
to the Board by evaluation of the skills, knowledge 
and experience required for a particular appointment. 
The Code requires the Company to have a formalised 
process for the selection and appointment of new 
Directors. The Board considers that a prescriptive 
procedure is inappropriate and could prove restrictive 
and costly both in terms of identifying potential 
candidates and the selection process itself. The 
Company does not believe that it should commit to 
the exclusive use of external recruitment consultants, 
although there may be occasions where this method 
is employed.
The	Nominations	Committee	in	2011
The Nominations Committee did not meet during  
the year.
Relations with Shareholders
The Company is keen to promote two-way 
communications with its institutional and private 
investors and responds quickly to queries received. 
Lord Bell, Chairman; Christopher Satterthwaite, Chief 
Executive; and Mark Smith, Chief Operating Officer, 
are the Company’s principal spokespersons with 
investors, analysts, the press and other interested 
parties.
In addition to direct communications with its 
shareholders the Company publishes copies of all 
announcements and circulars etc. on the Group 
website, www.chime.plc.uk. Shareholders are given at 
least 21 days’ notice of the Annual General Meeting at 
which all Directors are generally present and at which 
questions are both invited and encouraged.
Electronic Communications
Shareholders have the option to receive shareholder 
communications by electronic means or to continue 
receiving paper copies. The Company believes this 
equates with the advice it gives to its clients regarding 
utilising all channels of communication and also further 
illustrates our commitment to the environment by 
reducing the carbon emissions associated with the 
production and delivery of printed matter. Currently 
72% of our shareholders opt for delivery electronically.
Accountability and Audit
Financial Reporting
A review of the businesses in the Group is included 
in the Chief Executive’s Review. The Board uses 
this, together with the Chairman’s Statement and 
the Directors’ report on pages 40 to 45 to present 
a balanced and understandable assessment of the 
Company’s position and prospects. The Directors’ 
responsibilities for the financial statements are 
described on page 46 of the Report and Financial 
Statements.
Internal Control
The Board has an established process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing significant risks faced by 
the Group. The Board regularly reviews the process, 
which has been in place from the start of the year 
to the date of approval of this report and which is in 
accordance with revised guidance on internal control 
published in October 2005 (the Turnbull Guidance).
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of 
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The control and risk management procedures are 
designed to highlight any weaknesses and/or failures 
in the systems to the Board at the earliest opportunity 
together with action taken and/or proposed. Such a 
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate 
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives 
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Information on the Group’s significant risks, together 
with the relevant control and monitoring procedures, 
is reviewed on a monthly basis by the heads of the 
business units under the guidance of a nominated 
Executive Director and the Company Secretary. 
This information is presented to the Executive 
Directors to assess any identified risks and the overall 
effectiveness of the system of internal control. An 
update on all significant risk management issues is 
made to the Board at each quarterly meeting. 
Additionally, companies annually complete a 
review of specified risk areas and their local risk 
management processes under the supervision of 
divisional management, the Group Internal Auditor 
and the Company Secretary. The Company also 
has a subcommittee of the Audit Committee, the 
Risk Management Committee that monitors and 
investigates potential areas of risk raised by the 
trading companies and by the Group’s centralised 
administrative functions such as Legal, Human 
Resources and IT.
The Board recognises the need to ensure that 
established risk management procedures and 
standards are integrated into all acquired businesses 
                            84 / 109  
30  Chime Communications plc
and accordingly potential areas of non-compliance 
are identified during the due diligence process and 
addressed post-completion.
A review of the Internal Audit function has been 
conducted and reported to the Board within the 
annual review of the system of internal controls. 
Recommended changes to the scope and application 
of internal audit procedures have been adopted. 
The internal audit programme for the year has been 
presented to and approved by the Audit Committee. 
The Group is now a worldwide business and 
the Executive Directors continue to review new 
opportunities. The Audit Committee has broadened 
the scope of work of both the internal audit functions 
and the systems of risk management in order to 
ensure standards of control are maintained throughout 
the enlarged Group. Control of the overseas 
businesses is currently effected by designated senior 
executives reporting directly to the Board.
Given the nature of the Group’s activities, the Board 
recognises the risks associated with its ability to 
attract, motivate and retain talented employees. 
Accordingly, a significant part of the Group’s risk 
management procedures are focused in this area 
and the Group continues to utilise employee benefits 
schemes shown on pages 35 and 36 to help meet 
this requirement.
Review of the Risk Management Process
During 2011, the Board delegated the review of the 
risk management process to the Audit Committee 
in order to validate that the methods and channels 
used remained fit for purpose for the rapid growth and 
international expansion of the Group. In December 
2011 the Board approved a revised process and 
agreed the Audit Committee’s proposal for the use of 
suitable resources. The revised process commenced 
in January 2012. The Audit Committee will receive 
reports from the process directly from the Internal 
Auditor and the Group Secretary. 
The Group has material investments in a small number 
of associated companies that are not managed by the 
Group. Accordingly, the Group can only influence, not 
control, their management practices and therefore the 
review of internal controls for these operations is less 
comprehensive than that for the Group’s managed 
operations.
Financial Control
The financial control procedures are described under 
the following five headings:
1. Financial reporting – The Group has a 
comprehensive system for reporting financial results 
to the Board; each trading company prepares 
monthly results with a comparison against budget. 
The Board reviews these for the Group as a 
whole and by operating segment and determines 
appropriate action. Towards the end of each 
financial year the operating units prepare detailed 
budgets for the following year. Budgets and plans 
are reviewed and necessary changes made by the 
Board before being adopted formally.
2. Quality and integrity of personnel – One of the 
Group’s core values is integrity; this is regarded 
as vital to the maintenance of the Group’s system 
of internal financial control and is reflected in the 
quality and experience of the Group’s financial staff.
3. Operating unit financial controls – Key controls 
over major business risks include reviews against 
performance indicators and exception reporting. 
The trading companies regularly assess their 
exposure to major business risks and appropriate 
action is taken both at operating and Group level  
in order to ensure that risk is minimised as far  
as possible
4. Electronic Data Systems – The Group’s financial 
and management information is processed by and 
stored on data systems. Accordingly, the Group 
has established controls and procedures over the 
security of data held. The Group has put in place 
arrangements for processing to continue and data 
to be retained in the event of complete failure of  
any system.
5. Controls over central functions – A number of the 
Group’s key functions, including treasury, taxation, 
acquisitions and insurance, are dealt with centrally. 
Each of these functions has clear and detailed 
procedures and is required to report to the Board 
on a regular basis; the treasury details are reported 
daily to the Finance Director.
Going Concern Basis
The Group’s business activities, together with 
the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position are set out in the 
Chairman’s Statement on pages 2 to 7. The financial 
position of the Group, its cash flows and borrowing 
facilities are described in the Finance Director’s Report 
on pages 16 and 17. In addition, note 35 of the 
financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital; its 
financial risk management objectives and details of its 
financial instruments; and its exposure to credit risk 
and liquidity risk.
As highlighted in note 35 to the financial statements, 
the Group meets its day-to-day working capital 
requirements through an overdraft facility and a 
committed facility which expires in June 2013. 
These facilities are subject to banking covenants 
as disclosed in note 35. The process for agreeing 
suitable facilities post June 2013 will commence 
during 2012.
Directors’	Statement	on	Corporate	Governance	
(continued)
                            85 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  31
In preparing forecasts the Directors have taken into 
account the following key factors:
• The rate of growth of the UK and global economy 
on the Group’s business during the economic 
recovery;
• Key client account renewals;
• Planned acquisitions and disposals;
• Anticipated payments under deferred and 
contingent consideration;
• The level of committed and variable costs; and
• Current new business targets compared to levels 
achieved in previous years.
The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking 
account of reasonably possible changes in trading 
performance, show that the Group should be able 
to operate within the level of its current facility and 
banking covenants.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial 
statements.
More detail on the Group’s cash position and 
facilities at 31 December 2011, as well as maturities 
of the financial liabilities, can be found in note 35 
to the financial statements. The principal risks and 
uncertainties faced by the Group are included in the 
Directors’ Report. Details of potential contingent 
liabilities and potential cash outflows in relation to 
these liabilities can be found in note 31.
Ethics and Integrity
Overview
Chime is a group of companies with a diverse range 
of cultures within its subsidiary businesses. The Group 
sets standards of behaviour which it expects the 
companies to meet irrespective of their market, their 
communication discipline, or their culture. Our core 
values are the foundation of our standards. 
Our values are expressed and find meaning through 
the way we behave and the responsibilities we accept 
towards our shareholders, customers, colleagues, and 
the communities we serve:
• Mutual Respect – for each other as colleagues, and 
between ourselves and our clients;
• Mutual Interest – we are a service business. We 
know that our own success is intimately linked to 
the success we help our clients build;
• Accountable – our job is to deliver results for our 
clients and to quantify those results as best we can;
• Open-Minded – we are open-minded to each other 
and to new ideas. We know the enduring qualities 
of good business and best practice and yet we 
embrace change and new and better ways of  
doing things;
• Actively Diverse – in our employment practices as 
much as our thinking, because diversity is the soul 
of creativity;
• Network Savvy – because as modern 
communicators we rely on networks as never 
before and so each of us builds our own and 
leverages it to the advantages of all our audiences 
– shareholders, colleagues, customers and 
community;
• Tenacious – we don’t give up;
• Collaborative – groups can only work where 
collaboration is second nature. Collaboration works 
only where there is mutual understanding, mutual 
respect and trust.
Ethics
The Group meets all relevant laws, regulations and 
codes of practice issued by any relevant government 
or appropriate regulator. We ensure that all our 
people are aware and comply with such standards. 
In addition, we recognise that integrity is essential to 
the maintenance of our reputation in the marketplace. 
As part of our regular review process, issues of 
conduct are identified, reviewed and the Board is 
alerted as appropriate. We utilise our published Code 
of Conduct (see below) which formalises the values, 
behaviour and ethical standards expected of Chime 
employees. This area remains under review.
Bribery Act 2010
In accordance with best practice and government 
guidance the Group developed a response to the 
Bribery Act 2010 (implemented July 2011) building 
on our existing processes and standards. The 
Board acknowledges its responsibility for developing 
and maintaining procedures to prevent corruption 
within Chime’s operations and has designed and 
implemented a clear process to do so. The Board will 
continue to use the Act as its minimum benchmark 
for ethical trading with clients and partners. Where 
additional measures are required, by virtue of 
working in new markets, for clients who have specific 
requirements or, due to our operations moving into 
new territories, the Company will adapt the chosen 
procedures to meet those needs as they arise.
The Executive Directors will continue to promote our 
standards and make staff aware of the consequences 
of non-compliance. 
                            86 / 109  
32  Chime Communications plc
Directors’	Statement	on	Corporate	Governance	
(continued)
Compliance with Group Standards
Chime has a Code of Conduct which applies to all 
staff covering:
• Client and company confidentiality;
• Equal opportunities and the promotion of  
a meritocracy;
• A safe and civilised workplace;
• Proper consideration of the sensitivities of potential 
audiences when publishing materials;
• Honest business practice and integrity; and
• Compliance with all laws and regulations.
The Code of Conduct remains under review and will 
be adapted as market forces and legal requirements 
demand or as additional risks are identified. The 
risk management process includes testing of these 
areas and encompasses induction of new staff and 
suitability of training and reporting.
The Group has a clear, written whistleblowing policy 
and procedure available to all staff regarding concerns 
of employees about ethical behaviour and non-
compliance with regulatory requirements and/or the 
law. In March 2011 the Group set up a confidential 
helpline, run by an external third party, in order that 
staff can report any perceived shortcomings within  
our operations.
Social Responsibility
We are in the business of managing brand and 
corporate reputation on behalf of clients and the 
Board acknowledges that being socially responsible 
is an important factor in the management of our 
business.
The Board believes that corporate responsibility 
should underpin everything that we do. The Group is 
therefore committed to demonstrating the importance 
of this, not only in our work for clients, but in our own 
working practices.
We now have a continuing and embedded 
programme of process to induct, brief and train 
our staff to ensure our efforts permeate throughout 
our Group. Our process design will always include 
assessment of our impacts but also our opportunities 
in socially responsible deployment.
The Board and Audit Committee receive regular 
updates on our corporate responsibility initiatives 
and performance. The Chief Executive, Chris 
Satterthwaite, personally oversees our continuing 
efforts in this important area of our business. Regular 
consideration is given to the significance of social, 
environmental and ethical (SEE) issues (as defined by 
the Association of British Insurers), and as part of our 
wider operational risk framework, identifies significant 
risks arising from these areas to short-term and long-
term value.
The Group also considers corporate responsibility to 
be an area of business opportunity. Our subsidiary, 
Corporate Citizenship, provides not only a focus for 
our investment in this field but provides the Group 
with specialist expertise.
Measurement of Performance
The Company measures the performance of each of 
its businesses against a benchmark list of minimum 
corporate responsibility standards. These cover:
• Promoting good environmental practices – both in 
our own operations and to our wider stakeholders;
• Empowering community work – the promotion 
of volunteering and charity work by our staff and 
companies alike;
• Young people – via our internship, work experience 
and graduate schemes.
The standards are designed to be stretching and, 
as such, encourage continual improvement in these 
important areas. The minimum standards continue to 
be developed to ensure consistent improvement.
Performance against the standards is measured 
annually and the results are communicated to 
each operating business unit. Areas of potential 
improvement are addressed and successful best 
practice is identified and communicated across  
the Group.
We continue to report our corporate responsibility 
performance to our stakeholders via our website. 
These detail not only the principles of our approach, 
our targets and our performance but also give 
examples of the initiatives undertaken.
External	Recognition
The Company continues to be listed on the 
FTSE4Good Index, which evaluates companies’ 
performance on a number of corporate responsibility 
criteria. In 2010 we became the first marketing 
communications group to be awarded the Carbon 
Trust Standard which recognises companies with a 
continuing commitment to improving environmental 
performance. Chime was the 400th company to 
receive this accreditation.
The Environment
Whilst the business of Chime Communications has 
expanded to a number of worldwide international 
locations, our operations remain predominantly in the 
UK. We deliver services to clients based on image, 
ideas, research and content. As such, our direct and 
indirect impact on the environment is minimal and 
considered low-risk. Our international expansion will 
                            87 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  33
obviously increase the need for air travel and we have 
continued to deploy video conferencing facilities and a 
revised travel policy to ensure that increases in carbon 
emissions from our international growth are kept to a 
minimum.
We do acknowledge that our customers, staff and 
other stakeholders have an interest in our impact on 
the environment and as such we have committed to 
monitor and improve our environmental performance 
where possible. The Group has continually reduced 
its carbon footprint since becoming Carbon Neutral 
in 2007. In 2011 we assessed that our carbon 
emissions had reduced by 6% per full time employee 
during 2010. We are currently assessing our 2011 
emissions reductions and expect to meet our target 
of a further reduction of 5%. We continue to consider 
and enhance the environmental impact of our 
businesses and are working closely with our major 
suppliers to ensure best practice is embedded in 
our wider operations. We regularly incorporate our 
environmental performance in business presentations 
as we believe this is an important consideration when 
evaluating reputation both for our companies and our 
clients alike. 
Employee Issues
As a people business, our reputation depends on the 
skills, knowledge and integrity of our people. Chime 
has fostered an entrepreneurial culture and each of 
our businesses is encouraged to create a stimulating, 
rewarding and inspiring work environment for our 
people. Chime’s role is to provide a framework of 
standards which each company must meet in its own 
way within its own culture.
We do recognise that central oversight on human 
resources issues is beneficial and continually review 
the employment standards across the Group as part 
of the general management and risk identification 
processes.
In order to attract and retain talented staff we 
continue to operate our Savings-Related Share Option 
Schemes together with our Co-Investment Plan, and 
Deferred Share Plan. We also continue to review our 
incentive schemes on an ongoing basis to ensure 
they are fit for purpose. We continue to encourage 
staff involvement in a number of initiatives including 
our work on our environmental performance and 
staff volunteering. We run a graduate scheme across 
Chime and encourage involvement in a number of 
semi-formal groups in order to develop ideas and to 
foster inter-company relationships.
Health and Safety
The Board believes that our people are our most 
important asset. Our businesses do not include any 
industrial or manufacturing processes and our staff are 
mainly office-based. As such, risk of accidents is low. 
We do acknowledge that we may expose our staff 
to additional areas of risk which, whilst not unique 
to Chime (for example, business travel, event 
organisation and lone or remote working), do require 
further scrutiny, mitigation and procedural guidance 
in order to maximise the wellbeing of our people and 
those we interact with.
This is an on-going process and risk assessment 
of new developments or increases in activities with 
a higher level of risk, is embedded into our review 
process.
We take our duty of care seriously and have retained 
consultants, Safety Exchange Ltd, who provide not 
only guidance on identification and assessment of 
hazards but also practical support such as carrying 
out risk assessments for events and other activities.
Additional Information
Further information regarding the contents of this 
report is available on the Group website www.chime.
plc.uk, or from the Company Secretary on request.
Compliance Statement 
Statement about Applying the Principles of  
the Code
The Company has applied the principles set out 
in section 1 of the Code, including both the main 
principles and the supporting principles, by complying 
with the Code as reported above.
Statement of Compliance with the Code
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2011, 
the Company has been in compliance with the 
Code provisions set out in the 2010 UK Corporate 
Governance Code, except for provision B.2.4 – 
processes used by the Nominations Committee 
(reason for non-compliance is shown in the 
Committee section of the Corporate Governance 
Report on page 29); and D.1.2 – Executive Directors’ 
remuneration for external non-executive directorships 
is not stated, as this information is available in the 
financial statements of the companies concerned.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on 
behalf of the Board.
Robert	Davison
Secretary
7 March 2012
                            88 / 109  
34  Chime Communications plc
Group	Policy	on	the	Remuneration	of	Directors	
and Employees
This Report sets out the Group’s Remuneration 
policies for the Directors for the year ended  
31 December 2011. Except where noted, these 
policies are likely to continue to apply in future years, 
unless there are specific reasons for change. It has 
been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to 
the Accounting regulations under the Companies 
Act 2006. The Report also meets the relevant 
requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority and describes how the Board 
has applied the principles relating to Directors’ 
remuneration in the Combined Code. As required by 
the Act, resolutions to approve this Report and the 
company’s financial statements will be proposed at 
the Annual General Meeting. 
The Act requires the auditors to report to the 
Company’s members on certain parts of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and to state whether 
in their opinion those parts of the Report have been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Accounting 
Regulations. The Report has therefore been divided 
into separate sections for audited and unaudited 
information. 
Unaudited Information
Remuneration Committee
The composition, chairmanship and activities of  
the Remuneration Committee are set out on pages 
18 and 28. The members of the Committee receive 
remuneration as set out in this report. They abstain 
from participating where their own interests are 
concerned and have no involvement in the day-to-
day management of the Group’s operations. Other 
Directors attend meetings by invitation only but this 
would not include when matters relating to their own 
remuneration arrangements are discussed. 
During the financial period under review, the 
Remuneration Committee sought the assistance of 
the Chairman and Chief Operating Officer relating 
to Directors’ performance and remuneration. The 
Committee used Towers Watson to provide specialist 
third party advice primarily on competitive market 
levels of remuneration. 
Remuneration Policy
The Group is committed to attracting and retaining 
high quality staff. Remuneration is set at market 
levels and is regularly monitored. The performance 
measurement of the Executive Directors and 
senior staff and the determination of their annual 
remuneration packages are undertaken by the 
Committee. More generally, the Committee reviews 
executive remuneration arrangements regularly to 
ensure that they remain effective, competitive and 
appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and 
prospects, and monitors incentive award levels and 
consequent company liabilities. 
Non-Executive	Directors	Remuneration
The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors during 
2011 are set out on page 38.
Early in 2011 the Board agreed a revised policy for 
the remuneration of its Non-Executive Directors. 
Previously directors were paid a flat fee per annum 
irrespective of differences of responsibility or time 
commitment. A review of similar businesses and 
best practice resulted in the following structure being 
implemented from 1 January 2011.
Senior Independent Non-Executive: £40,000 per annum
Directorship: £25,000
Each Committee membership (additional): £5,000
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in 
the Company’s pension or share option or other 
incentive plans. The Board considers that the Non-
Executive Directors’ remuneration conforms with the 
requirements of the Code.
Executive	Director	Remuneration
In 2011 there were five main elements of the 
remuneration packages for Executive Directors:
• basic annual salary and benefits;
• annual bonus payments; 
• deferred share incentives;
• long-term incentive plans; and
• pension arrangements.
Basic Annual Salary and Benefits
In setting salary levels, the Remuneration Committee 
considers the experience and responsibility of the 
Executive Directors and their personal performance 
during the previous year. The Committee also takes 
account of salary levels within other companies 
of a similar size and nature, as well as the rates of 
increases for other employees within the Group. The 
Remuneration Committee reviews salaries with effect 
from January each year.
Three of the four Executive Directors spend a large 
proportion of their time on fee earning client work. 
Their remuneration packages are therefore based on 
the appropriate market rate for two different functions. 
One is the management of the Group in the executive 
roles of Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Chief 
Executive and the other is as client handlers and new 
business winners.
Directors’	Remuneration	Report
                            95 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  35
In the 10 years to 31 December 2010 salary 
increases have only been awarded to Mark Smith, 
Group Finance Director (in 2006) and to Christopher 
Satterthwaite, Chief Executive (in 2009) as part of a 
policy to gradually increase the proportion of total 
remuneration based on performance.
From 1 January 2011 salary increases were granted 
to Mark Smith on his promotion to Chief Operating 
Officer and to Lord Bell, Chairman, as it was 
considered that the existing level (which had been  
in place since 2001) had been significantly eroded  
by inflation.
The benefits provided by the Group to the Executive 
Directors consist principally of pension allowance, a 
car or car allowance and private medical insurance.
Annual Bonus
The Executive Directors’ annual bonus arrangements 
are focused on the achievement of the Group’s 
short term objectives. The annual bonus allocation 
is capped at a maximum of 50% of salary for the 
Executive Directors; of this up to 25% of the relevant 
Director’s salary may be payable if the Company 
meets the profit targets set by the Board. A further 
maximum of 25% may be paid to each Executive 
Director, based on performance against personal key 
performance indicators linked to the Group’s stated 
strategy and tailored to their individual roles. Some of 
these are non-financial. The Remuneration Committee 
reviews the specific key performance indicators for 
each Director and assesses their overall performance 
both against those indicators and generally. Based 
on this assessment the Committee determines what, 
if any, further bonus is payable. The Committee 
believes the performance metrics chosen align with 
shareholder value creation. Bonus payments are not 
pensionable.
In 2011, the key performance indicators included:
• Growth in operating profit margin
• Growth in income from international work
• Growth in number and value of shared clients
• Growth in average fee per client
• Revenue generation
• Client retention
• Cash management and conversion
• Quality of internal control
• Management of Chime’s reputation
• Retention of senior executives
• Management of debtors
• Strength of administrative and financial 
management
The Committee considered the performance of the 
Executive Directors in March 2012. The challenging 
profit targets set by the Committee were not met and 
therefore no bonus payment was approved for that 
element. The Committee also assessed each of the 
Director’s achievements against their individual key 
performance indicators. Whilst this indicated generally 
good performance, having regard to decisions made 
on bonus awards to other senior staff, it was agreed 
that no bonus would be paid for this element in 2011.
Deferred	Share	Plan
During 2006 the Company introduced a Deferred 
Share Plan (the Plan). Under the Plan restricted 
rights over existing Chime Communications shares 
are granted to Executive Board Directors, subsidiary 
Board Directors and senior employees of the Group. 
A participant of the Plan must remain employed 
by the Group for a fixed period (as determined by 
the Remuneration Committee at the date of grant) 
after the date of grant for the shares to vest with the 
employee. There are no other performance criteria 
attached to the restricted shares. The Plan aims to 
encourage the retention of key employees. All grants 
under the Plan are approved by the Remuneration 
Committee. The grants under the Plan to date have 
been relatively modest. The Deferred Share Plan 
replaced the Executive Share Option Scheme. There 
are presently grants under the Deferred Share Plans 
that have vesting periods of one, two, and three years.
2010 Co-Investment Plan
The 2010 Plan was approved by shareholders at the 
AGM in May 2010. 
The 2010 Plan is an annual ‘rolling’ plan with 
discretionary share awards made to participants 
subject to the approval of the Committee. 
Participation is intended to be limited to up to 20 
senior employees (including the Executive Directors) 
of the Company and its subsidiaries. Participants 
receive an award of shares which will vest after a 
three-year performance period, dependent on the 
achievement of demanding performance conditions to 
be set by the Committee for each award. Participation 
will be dependent upon the participant maintaining 
an investment in the Company throughout the period 
between award and vesting. For Executive Directors, 
this investment will be 25% of each award under the 
CIP. The maximum award of shares to a participant in 
a year will be set by the Committee but will normally 
be no more than 100% of annual salary.
Performance	Conditions	for	Executive	Directors
The Committee considers that the primary engine 
for the creation of long-term shareholder value is 
sustained growth in profitability, for which the primary 
and most complete measure is earnings per share 
(EPS). However, the Committee is keen for the plan 
to reward the delivery of shareholder return. For the 
2010 and 2011 awards, 50% of the awards were 
                            96 / 109  
36  Chime Communications plc
Directors’	Remuneration	Report
(continued)
subject to relative total shareholder return (TSR) 
(growth in share price plus reinvested dividends) and 
50% subject to EPS growth.
Whilst the Committee has discretion to determine how 
EPS will be calculated for each annual grant, EPS 
performance for the 2010 and 2011 awards will be 
measured using the method included in the Notice of 
Meeting of the 2010 AGM.
If the Company’s position in relation to the peer group 
places it at or above the 75th percentile then 100% 
of the shares tied to TSR will vest. If the Company’s 
position in relation to the peer group is between the 
50th and the 75th percentile the number of award 
shares that will vest will vary on a straight line basis 
between 30% and 100%. For a position below the 
50th percentile no award shares tied to TSR will vest.
Performance	conditions	–	Non	Board	
Participants (2011 Grant)
In 2011 the Committee reviewed the performance 
conditions for the Plan for future grants to the non-
Board participants. The Committee resolved to 
continue with 50% of any award being measured 
against EPS. The second measurement was revised. 
This will now be set on an individual basis by grant 
in order to incentivise each senior manager to deliver 
stretching targets set by the Board. It is envisaged 
that these may differ from person to person and from 
year to year.
The second element of performance measurement for 
the non-Board participants for the 2011 grant was set 
at the achievement of budgeted operational profit for 
the respective participant’s division.
There are no changes to the measurement elements 
for the Executive Directors.
Share	Option	Schemes
Previously the Company has operated an Executive 
Share Option Scheme for Executive Directors, 
subsidiary Board Directors and senior employees.
All executive options granted from November 1997 
(other than special executive options) are subject to 
the Group achieving, during the period of grant, an 
average total shareholder return on the shares for the 
preceding three years which exceeds the average 
FTSE 100 total shareholder return for the same period 
and a percentage growth in earnings per share which 
is at least equal to the percentage growth in the Retail 
Price Index plus 6% over three years. The exercise 
price of the options granted under the above scheme 
is equal to the market value of the Company’s shares 
at the time when the options were granted. There 
have been no grants of Executive Share Options since 
2005. Executive share options are only expected 
to be granted in future if there is a contractual 
commitment or in exceptional circumstances.
The Company also operates a Savings-Related Share 
Option Scheme which is open to all employees after 
an initial qualifying period of employment.
Pensions
Pension contributions on behalf of the Executive 
Directors are paid by the Company to the Group’s 
money purchase pension scheme for a personal 
pension arrangement up to the value of 20% of their 
basic salary.
Directors’	Interests	in	Contracts	and	Other	
Transactions with Group Companies
No Director has a material interest in any contract with 
any Group company other than a service contract. 
                            97 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  37
Directors’	Contracts
The following table summarises each Director’s contract.
	 	 Company		 Executive 
 Contract date notice period notice period
Executive	Directors
Lord Bell 7 Dec 2006 12 months 12 months
Piers Pottinger 10 May 1994 12 months 12 months
Christopher Satterthwaite 6 Dec 2002 12 months 12 months
Mark Smith 10 May 1994 12 months 12 months
   
Non-Executive	Directors
Rodger Hughes 1 Jul 2007 3 months 
Hon. Richard Alston 2 Jul 2008 3 months 
Catherine Biner Bradley 11 Sep 2001 3 months 
Paul Richardson 3 Dec 1998 Linked to WPP  
  shareholding 
Any compensation payable on early termination of employment contracts for the Executive Directors or any 
employee would be in line with contractual and statutory requirements.
There are no provisions for compensation payments on early termination in the Non-Executive Directors’ Terms 
and Conditions of Appointment.
Director appointments are subject to Board approval and election by shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting following appointment and, thereafter by annual re-election.
Performance Graph
This graph shows the Company’s performance measured by total shareholder return, compared with the 
performance of the FTSE 100 and the FTSE All Share Media Index, also measured by total shareholder return. 
The FTSE All Share Media Index has been chosen as the most suitable comparator as it is the general market 
index in which the Group appears.
                            98 / 109  
38  Chime Communications plc
Directors’	Remuneration	Report
(continued)
Remuneration vs. Company performance Chart
The increase in the total annual remuneration (salaries, benefits and bonuses) for the four Executive Directors 
over the five years from 2006 to 2011 compares with the financial performance of the Group as follows:
  Increase % Increase % 
Measure  (2006 v. 2011) (2006 v. 2010)
Total Executive Directors’ annual remuneration  4 31
Revenues  78 81
Profit before tax  99 92
Headline EPS  68 56
Dividends per share  127 109
Audited Information
Aggregate	Directors’	Remuneration
The total amounts of emoluments included in Directors’ remuneration are as follows:
    Emoluments   Total Total 
	 Salary	 	 	 excl.	pension	 Pension	 3 1 	 D e c e m b e r 	 3 1 	 D e c e m b e r 
 and fees Benefits Bonus contributions contributions 2011 2010 
 £ £ £ £ £ £ £
Executive	Directors
Lord Bell* 675,000 89,481 – 764,481 135,000 899,481 1,136,752
Piers Pottinger 401,000 30,128 – 431,128 80,200 511,328 616,042
Christopher Satterthwaite 500,000 22,873 – 522,873 100,000 622,873 873,903
Mark Smith 325,000 29,277 – 354,277 65,000 419,277 453,228
Non-Executive	Directors
Rodger Hughes 50,000 – – 50,000 – 50,000 40,000
Hon. Richard Alston 30,000 – – 30,000 – 30,000 25,000
Catherine Biner Bradley 30,000 – – 30,000 – 30,000 25,000
Paul Richardson – – – – – – –
Totals 2,011,000 171,759 – 2,182,759 380,200 2,562,959 3,169,925
*Chairman and highest paid Director
The pension contributions made by the Company are in respect of money purchase Schemes. 
In addition to the amounts shown above, in 2011 Rodger Hughes was paid £20,000 (2010: £5,000) in respect 
of services as a non-executive director of a Chime subsidiary company.
Directors’	Share	Options,	Restricted	Shares	and	Matching	Shares
The following unexercised options over shares were held by Directors:
Executive share option scheme:
	 	 	 	 	 	 Date	from 
	 1	January		 	 	 31	December	 Exercise	 which 
	 2011	 Lapsed		 Exercised	 2011	 price	 exercisable	 Expiry	date
Lord Bell 61,290 – – 61,290 £0.78 Apr 2006 Apr 2013
                            99 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  39
Savings related share option scheme:
	 	 	 	 	 	 Date	from 
	 1	January		 	 	 31	December	 Exercise	 which 
	 2011		 Lapsed	 Exercised	 2011	 price	 exercisable	 Expiry	date
Mark Smith 8,995 – – 8,995 £0.68 Jul 2014 Dec 2014
The market price of the shares at 31 December 2011 was 171.00p and the range during 2011 was 163.00p to 
298.50p. There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for share options 
during the financial year.
The following matching shares were held by Directors in respect of the 2010 Co-Investment Plan.
	 1	January		 	 31	December 
	 2011		 Awarded	 2011	 2011	Award	Date	 2011	Vesting	Date
Lord Bell 264,550 382,436 645,986 1 September 2011 September 2014
Piers Pottinger 52,910 56,657 109,567 1 September 2011 September 2014
Christopher Satterthwaite 238,095 283,286 521,381 1 September 2011 September 2014
Mark Smith 132,275 184,135 316,410 1 September 2011 September 2014
The total charge recorded in the income statement in 2011 in respect of Directors’ share based payments is 
£114,000 (2010: £330,000).
Directors’	Interests	in	the	Shares	of	Chime	Communications	plc
The Directors of the Company, all of whom were Directors for the whole year, unless otherwise indicated, and 
their interests in the Company at 1 January 2011 or date of appointment, and at 31 December 2011 or on date 
of resignation were:
 Beneficial holdings
	 1	January		 31	December 
 2011 2011 
	 Ordinary	 Ordinary	 
 Shares of Shares of  
 25p each 25p each
Lord Bell 719,797 726,797
Piers Pottinger 164,289 164,289
Christopher Satterthwaite  257,958 275,146
Mark Smith  291,180 300,080
Rodger Hughes  12,053 12,053
Hon. Richard Alston  – –
Catherine Biner Bradley  16,762 16,762
Paul Richardson – –
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
Robert	Davison
Secretary
7 March 2012
                          100 / 109  
40  Chime Communications plc
The Directors present their annual report and the 
audited financial statements for the year ended 
31 December 2011. The Corporate Governance 
Statement set out on pages 23 to 33 forms part of  
this report.
Principal Activities and Business Model
The principal business of the Group is providing public 
relations, advertising and marketing services, sports 
marketing, and market research services. 
The Group’s diversified strategy is delivered via our 
four divisions as follows:
Public Relations
The focus of the public relations division is on 
maintaining its current market position and taking 
advantage of growth opportunities to expand into 
new services and territories. Digital, Social Media and 
Healthcare have been identified as areas of future 
potential growth.
Advertising and Marketing Services
The advertising and marketing services division is 
focused on maintaining its high standard of creative 
work, and expanding this delivery via new offerings 
and territories.
Sports Marketing
The sports marketing division aims to consolidate 
its existing market-leading position by expanding 
services offered in existing territories, and taking 
advantage of growth opportunities in global sporting 
events and new markets.
Insight and Engagement
Insight and Engagement is focused on delivering 
quantitative and qualitative research; expanding its 
data analytics offering and developing other digital 
platforms. 
Business Review
The information that fulfils the requirements of the 
enhanced business review, as required by Section 
417 of the Companies Act 2006 (“the Act”) and which 
form part of this report by reference, are included in 
the following sections of the Annual Report:
• A review of the performance and development of 
the Group’s business during the year, its position 
at the year end and its prospects is set out in the 
Chairman’s statement and Finance Director’s report 
on pages 16 to 17;
• The principal risks and uncertainties facing the 
Group are described on pages 44 to 45; 
• Details of the principal subsidiaries are set out in 
note 17; and
• The Group’s use of financial instruments is set out 
in note 35 of the financial statements.
As a whole the Annual Report provides information 
about the Group’s businesses, its financial 
performance during the year and likely future 
developments. There have been no significant 
changes to the Group’s principal trading activities 
during the year under review and the Directors are  
not aware, at the date of this report, of any likely  
major changes in the Group’s activities in the new 
financial year.
Directors’	Report
The Group uses the following key performance indicators to measure progress towards its objectives:
   2011 2010
Like-for-like operating income growth
1
   4% 7%
Like-for-like headline operating profit growth
1, 2
   9% 21%
Headline operating profit margin
2
   19.5% 18.3%
Headline diluted earnings per share
2
   26.56p 24.38p
Average fee income per client   £90,000 £100,000
Average income per employee   £112,000 £120,000
Net cash   £3,343,000 £6,880,000
Clients using more than one company   325 277
Operating income from international clients   47% 51%
Operating income from top 30 clients   45% 49%
Notes:
1.  Like-for-like comparisons are calculated by taking current year actual results (which include acquisitions from the relevant date of completion) compared with 
prior year actual results, adjusted to include the results of acquisitions for the commensurate period in the prior year. The comparative has been calculated in 
accordance with the prior year methodology for organic growth. This is as a result of relevant data not being available for prior year acquisitions.
2.  Before taking account of amortisation of acquired intangible assets and impairment of goodwill (£3.3 million, 2010: £3.0 million) and costs relating to 
acquisitions and restructuring (£3.0 million, 2010: £2.2 million). 
                          103 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  41
Results and dividends
The Group’s income statement is set out on page 48 
and shows a profit before tax for 2011 of £24,687,000 
(2010: £21,240,000). The Directors recommend 
the payment of a final dividend of 4.50p per 
ordinary share to be paid on 15 June 2012 to those 
shareholders on the register at 25 May 2012 which 
together with the interim dividend paid in October 
2011 of 2.08p per share makes a total of 6.58p per 
share for the year (2010: 6.05p per share).
Dividends are recognised in the accounts in the year 
they are paid, or in the case of a final dividend when 
approved by shareholders, such that the amount 
recognised in the 2011 accounts comprises 2010’s 
final dividend and 2011’s interim dividend.
Directors	and	their	interests
The names of the Directors are set out on pages 18 
to 19, which include brief biographical details. There 
were no changes to the Board structure during 2011.
The Directors’ interests in the shares of Chime 
Communications plc are disclosed as part of 
the Report of the Board to the Shareholders on 
Directors’ Remuneration on page 39. Details relating 
to Directors’ remuneration, share options, long-
term incentives are also given as part of the Report 
of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors’ 
Remuneration.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting each  
of the Directors will resign and offer themselves for  
re-election.
Other than described in the Report of the Board to the 
Shareholders on Directors’ Remuneration no Director 
of the Company has, or had during the year, any 
interests in the shares of other Group companies or in 
any transactions which were unusual in their nature or 
were significant to the Company’s business.
Directors’	indemnities
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force 
under which the Company has agreed to indemnify 
the Directors, to the extent permitted by law and 
Company’s Articles of Association, in respect of 
all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the 
execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities, 
as Directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. 
There is no agreement in place between the 
Company and its Directors and employees providing 
for compensation for loss of office of employment 
(whether through resignation, purported redundancy 
or otherwise) that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Company has purchased and maintains 
Directors’ and Officers’ insurance cover against legal 
liabilities and costs for claims in connection with any 
act or omission by its Directors or Officers in the 
execution of their duties.
Donations
During the year the Group donated £49,000 (2010: 
£58,000) for charitable purposes.
The Group’s policy is not to make direct donations to 
support political parties. However, the nature of the 
Group’s work is such that to support its commercial 
activities, certain companies within the Group may 
need to attend or sponsor events which are organised 
by political parties or other political organisations, for 
which a charge is made. In addition, the Group may 
invite clients and prospective clients to attend events 
which fall within the meaning of the Companies Act 
2006 provisions. The Companies Act 2006 defines 
‘”political party”, “political organisations”, “political 
donation” and “political expenditure” widely and  
as a result, it is possible that political organisations 
may include bodies concerned with matters such as 
policy review and law reform, or the representation  
of the business community or sections of it, or  
the representation of other communities or special 
interest groups.
During the year and adopting this wider definition, the 
Group made payments that might be deemed to be 
political donations totalling £19,000 (2010: £27,000) 
to various organisations, including £7,000 connected 
with the Conservative party, £6,000 connected with 
the Liberal Democrats and £6,000 connected with the 
Labour Party.
In line with recommendations made by the 
Association of British Insurers, the Board intends to 
seek an annual authority to make donations or incur 
expenditure of a political nature.
Employee involvement
The Group places considerable value on the 
involvement of its employees and has continued to 
keep them informed on matters affecting them as 
employees and on the various factors affecting the 
performance of the Group. This is achieved principally 
via the Group’s intranet site, e-mails and formal and 
informal functions. In addition, the Group’s Savings-
Related Share Option Scheme, Performance Related 
Pay and bonus schemes encourage employees at all 
levels to contribute to the achievement of the Group’s 
short and long-term goals.
                          104 / 109  
42  Chime Communications plc
Directors’	Report
(continued)
The Group believes in an equality of opportunity for all 
employees based on merit and that no employee or 
job applicant should receive less favourable treatment 
on the grounds of: age, sex, marital status, disability, 
colour, race, religion, nationality or ethnic origin.
Employment of disabled persons
The Group gives full and fair consideration to all 
applications for employment made by disabled 
persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes 
and abilities. Opportunities for training, career 
development and promotion do not disadvantage 
these employees.
Creditor payment terms
The Group’s policy on suppliers is that they will be 
paid in accordance with agreed terms and conditions 
of trade on a regular basis.
The number of days outstanding between receipt of 
invoices and date of payment, calculated by reference 
to the amount owed to trade creditors at the year-end 
as a proportion of the amounts invoiced by suppliers 
during the year, is disclosed in note 23.
Additional information for shareholders
The following information, which summarises certain 
provisions of the current Articles and Association 
of Chime Communications plc (“the Articles”) and 
applicable English law concerning companies (the 
Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 
2006, together “the Companies Acts”), is required 
to be provided to shareholders as a result of the 
implementation of the European Directive on Takeover 
bids (2004/25/EC) into English Law. The current 
Articles were adopted by the Company at the Annual 
General Meeting on 12 May 2010. This is a summary 
only and the relevant provisions of the Articles and 
the Companies Acts should be consulted if further 
information is required.
Share capital
As at 31 December 2011 the Company’s issued 
share capital comprised 80,948,500 ordinary shares 
with a nominal value of 25 pence each. As at 7 March 
2012, the Company’s issued share capital comprised 
81,212,838 ordinary shares. Details of the issued 
share capital, together with movements in the issued 
share capital during the year, are shown in note 27 of 
the accounts on page 87.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
The rights attaching to the Company’s ordinary 
shares, being the only share class of the Company, 
are set out in the Articles. Subject to the Companies 
Acts and applicable law, shares may be issued with 
such rights and restrictions as the Company may by 
ordinary resolution decide, or if no such resolution is 
in effect or such resolution does not make specific 
provision as the Board may determine. There is 
currently no such applicable resolution in effect. 
Voting rights
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and 
speak at general meetings of the Company. On a 
show of hands every holder of ordinary shares who 
is present in person shall have one vote. On a poll 
every holder of ordinary shares present in person 
shall have one vote for every share of which he is 
the holder. Votes may be exercised in person or 
by proxy. Every notice of general meeting of the 
Company shall specify the deadlines in relation to the 
exercise of voting rights in respect of each resolution 
proposed at such meeting. Electronic and paper 
proxy appointments must be received not later than 
48 hours before the general meeting, provided that at 
an adjournment of a meeting the proxy form must be 
received not later than 24 hours before the date of the 
adjourned meeting. 
No holder of ordinary shares may attend or vote 
(whether in person or by proxy) nor exercise any other 
right conferred by being a holder of ordinary shares, 
unless all calls or other sums presently payable by 
the holder of such ordinary shares have been paid. 
A holder of ordinary shares may lose the entitlement 
to vote at a general meeting where that holder has 
failed to respond to a disclosure notice made by the 
Company under the Companies Acts with information 
concerning interests held in those shares. 
Variation of rights
The Company may resolve by the consent of not less 
than 75% in nominal value of the issued shares of the 
Company, and subject to the Companies Acts, to vary 
all or any of the rights attaching to the shares of the 
Company. 
Restriction on transfer of shares
The Directors may refuse, provided such refusal does 
not prevent dealings in the shares of the Company 
from taking place in an open and proper manner or 
where the Company has a lien over such shares, to 
register a transfer of certificated shares which are 
not fully paid, or where the instrument of transfer 
has not been correctly stamped and lodged at the 
place designated by the Board accompanied by the 
certificate of shares and such other evidence of title 
as may be reasonably required to show the right of 
the transferor to make the transfer. The Directors 
                          105 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  43
may also refuse to register a transfer unless it is to 
a person who is: (i) not a minor; (ii) a bankrupt; (iii) is 
subject to an order made on the grounds of some 
mental or other incapacity that prevents management 
of their own affairs; (iv) the transfer is in favour of not 
more than four transferees; and (v) the instrument of 
transfer is in respect of one class of shares only.
Transfers of uncertificated shares of the Company 
may be made using the CREST system and 
the Directors may refuse a transfer of shares in 
accordance with the rules governing the operation of 
the CREST system. 
Significant direct or indirect holdings of  
securities and special rights
The holdings of shares of the Company by the 
Directors are notified on page 39. Significant holdings 
in the shares of the Company are notified on page 
44. Under the subscription Agreement between the 
Company and WPP plc of 1997, WPP plc has the 
right to appoint two non-executive directors of the 
Company provided it holds not less than 20% of the 
shares of the Company and the right to appoint one 
non-executive director provided it holds not less than 
12.5% of the shares of the Company. There are no 
other holdings of shares of the Company in which 
there are special rights. 
Dividends and other payments
The Company may by ordinary resolution from time 
to time declare dividends in accordance with the 
rights of the members subject to the provisions of the 
Companies Acts and provided that the dividend does 
not exceed the amount recommended by the Board 
of Directors. The Board may pay interim dividends in 
such amount as the Board considers justified by the 
financial position of the Company.
Employee share trust
The Company operates a number of schemes in 
order to incentivise the employees of the Company. 
Shares are held by a trustee in order to satisfy 
the entitlements of employees under the Group’s 
share schemes other than those that are satisfied 
by the issue of new shares. The shares held by the 
trustee do not have any special rights with regard 
to the control of the Company. The rights attaching 
to the shares held by the trustee are generally not 
exercisable by the relevant employees except where 
the interest is held beneficially by them. Further details 
on the share schemes may be found on pages 35  
and 36.
Appointment and replacement of Directors
Directors may be appointed by ordinary resolution 
of the Company in general meeting or by the Board 
upon the recommendation of the nominations 
committee. Directors may be removed by ordinary 
resolution of the Company in general meeting upon 
special notice or by notice of not less than 75% of the 
other Directors of the Company being not fewer than 
three in number. 
Amendment to the Articles
Amendment to the Articles of Association may be 
made by special resolution of the Company in general 
meeting in accordance with the Companies Acts. 
Powers of the Directors
The Directors of the Company may exercise all the 
powers of the Company as set out in the Articles 
including the power to borrow money, to mortgage or 
charge the assets and property of the Company, to 
issue securities and to give securities for any debt or 
liability of the Company or any third party. The Board 
of Directors exercising such powers shall manage the 
business of the Company. The Company may also 
authorise the Directors to issue, increase, consolidate, 
sub-divide and cancel shares by ordinary resolution 
and in accordance with the relevant Articles and 
legislation. 
Acquisition of the Company’s own shares
The Company may purchase its own shares in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the 
Companies Acts, subject to the resolution of the 
shareholders. Shares purchased by the Company 
may be held in treasury or should, if not held in 
treasury, be cancelled immediately thus reducing the 
issued share capital of the Company. 
At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, 
under the shareholders’ resolution issued on 11 May 
2011, to purchase through the market 7,358,482 
of the Company’s own ordinary shares at prices 
not less than 25p per ordinary share and not more 
than five per cent above the average of the middle 
market quotations as derived from the London Stock 
Exchange Daily Official List. This authority will last until 
the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
                          106 / 109  
44  Chime Communications plc
Significant agreements
The following significant agreement contains 
provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise 
termination or other rights in the event of a change of 
control of the Company:
Under the £32 million committed banking facility 
agreement dated 18 August 2008 between the 
Company and The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, 
upon a change of control of the Company or any 
of its subsidiaries, without the consent of the bank, 
the bank may by written notice declare the loan, all 
interest accrued and all other sums payable under  
the agreement to be immediately due and payable 
and/or terminate the obligations of the bank under  
the agreement.
The Directors confirm there are no contractual or 
other arrangements between the Group and any 
person which are essential to the business of the 
company.
Risks and uncertainties
The Board has considered the risks and uncertainties 
affecting the Group as at 31 December 2011 and 
these are summarised below. The Group has specific 
policies in place to ensure risks are properly evaluated 
and managed at the appropriate level within the 
Group. These policies are set out in the Directors’ 
Statement on Corporate Governance in the section 
headed internal control on page 29.
In addition to the general economic and competitive 
risks affecting businesses operating in the Group’s 
markets, the following are considered to be the 
principal risks impacting the Group. These risks 
are regularly assessed and monitored by the senior 
management team in each division and by the 
Executive Management Team.
• The Group receives a significant portion of its 
revenues from a limited number of large clients, and 
the loss of those clients would adversely impact the 
Group’s prospects, business, financial condition 
and result of operations.
 A relatively small number of clients contribute a 
significant percentage of the Group’s operating 
income. The Group’s two largest clients accounted 
for approximately 19% of operating income in 
the year ended 31 December 2011 (2010: 21%) 
and the Group’s 30 largest clients accounted for 
approximately 45% of operating income in the year 
ended 31 December 2011 (2010: 49%).
• The Group must ensure it retains and develops 
personnel at all levels.
 The Group’s future success is substantially 
dependent on the continuity of services to clients 
and the retention of knowledge and relationships 
within the Group. The loss or lack of development 
of personnel could have a material adverse effect 
on the Group’s business.
• Acquired goodwill and other intangible assets 
recorded on the Group’s balance sheet with 
respect to acquired companies may become 
impaired.
 The Group has a significant amount of goodwill and 
other acquired intangible assets recorded on its 
balance sheet with respect to acquired companies 
that may become impaired if business performance 
does not meet expectations in the short and long 
term. The Group performs due diligence on all 
acquisitions and this forms part of the board’s 
assessment of each proposed acquisition. In 
addition, future events could cause the Group 
to conclude that the asset values and goodwill 
associated with a given operation have become 
impaired. 
Directors’	Report
(continued)
Substantial interests
At 7 March 2012 the following interests, other than those of the Directors set out above, in 3% or more of the 
issued ordinary share capital had been notified to the Company:
	 	 	 Number	of		 %	of	ordinary	 
   ordinary shares share capital
WPP Group plc   13,898,516 17%
Fidelity Investments   9,082,133 11%
JPMorgan Asset Management   5,703,239 7%
Aberforth Partners   4,848,324 6%
BlackRock   3,052,188 4%
Legal & General Investment Management   2,875,818 4%
Brandes Investment Partners   2,510,844 3%
                          107 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  45
• The Group is subject to currency rate risk.
 The Group operates globally, as explained in 
note 3 to the financial statements. Fluctuations 
in exchange rates between currencies in which 
the Group operates, relative to pounds sterling, 
may cause fluctuations in its financial results, 
particularly in the current economic climate within 
the Eurozone. The main currencies which impact 
the Group’s operations are the US dollar and the 
Euro. An assessment has been performed of the 
impact of significant fluctuations in exchange rates 
of the main foreign currencies used by the Group, 
as shown in note 35 of these financial statements.
Auditors
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of 
approval of this report confirms that:
• so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Group’s auditors are 
unaware; and
• the Director has taken all the steps that he/she 
ought to have taken as a Director in order to 
make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted 
in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to 
continue in office as auditors and a resolution to 
reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on 
behalf of the Board.
Robert	Davison
Secretary 
7 March 2012 
                          108 / 109  
46  Chime Communications plc
Statement	of	Directors’	Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Report and the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable laws and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such 
financial statements for each financial year. Under 
that law the Directors are required to prepare Group 
financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the 
parent company financial statements in accordance 
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and 
applicable law). Under company law the Directors 
must not approve the accounts unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss 
of the company for that period. In preparing these 
financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
• make judgments and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going 
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume 
that the company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, 
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that 
directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, 
in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, 
comparable and understandable information; and
• provide additional disclosures when compliance 
with the specific requirements in IFRSs are 
insufficient to enable users to understand the 
impact of particular transactions, other events and 
conditions on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance; and
• make an assessment of the company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and 
explain the Group’s transactions and disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Group and enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance 
and integrity of the corporate and financial information 
included on the Group’s website. Legislation in  
the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’	responsibility	statement
We confirm to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss 
of the company and the undertakings included in 
the consolidation taken as a whole; and
• the Directors report, includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and 
the position of the company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face. 
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on 
behalf of the Board
Robert	Davison
Secretary
7 March 2012 
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org)
                          109 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  47
Independent	Auditor’s	Report	to	the	 
Members of Chime Communications plc 
We have audited the group financial statements of 
Chime Communications plc for the year ended  
31 December 2011 which comprise the Consolidated 
Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and 
the related notes 1 to 36. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their preparation 
is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, 
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 
of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been 
undertaken so that we might state to the company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than 
the company and the company’s members as a body, 
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions 
we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors  
and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities  
Statement, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our 
responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the  
financial statements in accordance with applicable law  
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).  
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing  
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the 
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements 
sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This 
includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the group’s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the 
overall presentation of the financial statements. In 
addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the annual report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. 
If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Opinion	on	financial	statements
In our opinion the group financial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s 
affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of the group’s 
profit for the year then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued 
by the IASB
As explained in note 2 to the group financial 
statements, the group in addition to complying with 
its legal obligations to apply IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by 
the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
In our opinion the group financial statements comply 
with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Opinion	on	other	matters	pr escribed	by	the	
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the group 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the group financial statements.
Matters	on	which	we	ar e	r equir ed	to	r eport	 
by	exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to 
report to you if, in our opinion:
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the Directors’ statement, contained within the 
Corporate Governance Statement, in relation to 
going concern; 
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement 
relating to the company’s compliance with the nine 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
specified for our review; and
• certain elements of the report to shareholders by 
the Board on directors’ remuneration.
Other	matter
We have reported separately on the parent company 
financial statements of Chime Communications plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2011 and on the 
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that 
is described as having been audited.
Sarah Shillingford ACA (Senior statutory 
auditor)	for	and	on	behalf	of	Deloitte	LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
7 March 2012
                          102 / 109  
48  Chime Communications plc
Consolidated Income Statement
Year ended 31 December 2011
   2011 2010 
  Notes £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Revenue  3 325,933  299,800 
Cost of sales   (162,307) (150,538)
Operating income  3 163,626  149,262 
Operating expenses   (138,099) (127,144)
Headline operating profit    4 31,857  27,351 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles and goodwill impairment  13, 15 (3,299) (3,016)
Costs of acquisitions and restructuring  4  (3,031) (2,217)
Operating profit  3 25,527  22,118 
Share of results of associates   344  173 
Investment income  7 110  74 
Finance costs  8 (468) (432)
Finance cost of deferred consideration  8 (826) (693)
Profit before tax   24,687 21,240 
Tax  9 (7,473) (6,505)
Profit for the year   17,214  14,735 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent   15,536  13,156 
Non-controlling interest   1,678  1,579 
   17,214  14,735 
 
Earnings per share (pence)
From continuing operations
Basic  12 20.17p 18.83p
Diluted  12 19.78p 18.43p
Headline earnings per share (pence)
From continuing operations
Basic  12 27.09p 24.90p
Diluted  12 26.56p 24.38p
                             3 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  49
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Year ended 31 December 2011
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Profit for the year   17,214  14,735 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations   (427) (143)
Total comprehensive income for the year   16,787  14,592 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent   15,063  13,007 
Non-controlling interest   1,724  1,585 
   16,787  14,592 
                            10 / 109  
50  Chime Communications plc
Consolidated Balance Sheet
31 December 2011
   2011 2010 
  Notes £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill  13 176,721  149,487 
Other intangible assets  15 3,471  4,304 
Property, plant and equipment  16 7,327  4,163 
Investments in associates   716  359 
Other investments  19 1,014  – 
Due from deferred consideration  20 507  404 
Deferred tax asset  10 1,032  734 
   190,788  159,451 
Current assets
Work in progress   4,158  4,090 
Trade and other receivables  21 68,246  66,204 
Current tax receivable   182 –
Cash and cash equivalents  22 11,320  10,278 
   83,906  80,572 
Total assets   274,694  240,023 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables  23 (78,025) (83,352)
Current tax liabilities   (4,402) (3,273)
Obligations under finance leases  24 (70) (10)
Bank loan  25 –  – 
Short-term provisions  26 (3,625) (3,973)
   (86,122) (90,608)
Net current liabilities   (2,216) (10,036)
Non-current liabilities
Bank loans  25 (7,769) (3,300)
Long-term provisions  26 (18,337) (10,749)
Obligations under finance leases  24 (80) (30)
   (26,186) (14,079)
Total liabilities   (112,308) (104,687)
Net Assets   162,386  135,336 
                            11 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  51
Consolidated Balance Sheet (continued)
31 December 2011
   2011 2010 
  Notes £’000 £’000
Equity
Share capital  27 20,237  18,381 
Share premium account  28 79,986  63,366 
Own shares  28 (4,191) (4,003)
Capital reduction reserve  28 32,385  32,385 
Translation reserve  28 668  1,141 
Accumulated profit   32,328  24,882 
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent   161,413  136,152 
Written put options over non-controlling interests   –  (2,000)
Non-controlling interest   973  1,184 
Total equity   162,386  135,336 
The financial statements were approved by the board of Directors and authorised for issue on 7 March 2012. 
They were signed on its behalf by:
Mark Smith
Director
                            12 / 109  
52  Chime Communications plc
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
31 December 2011
        Written 
      Accum-  put options 
    Capital  ulated  over non- Non- 
 Share Share Own reduction  Translation profit/  controlling controlling 
 capital premium shares reserve reserves (loss) Total interests interests Total 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at  
1 January  
2010 16,834  52,691  (5,406) 32,385  1,290  20,504  118,298  (2,000) 545  116,843 
Total  
comprehensive  
income for  
the year –  –  –  –  (149) 13,156  13,007  –  1,585  14,592 
Transactions with  
owners:
Acquisition  
of subsidiaries 944  6,706  –  –  –  –  7,650  –  –  7,650 
Share placing 562  3,938  –  –  –  –  4,500  –  –  4,500 
Disposal  
of subsidiaries –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (46) (46)
Issued to staff  
under options 41  167  –  –  –  –  208  –  –  208 
Share issue costs –  (136) –  –  –  –  (136) –  –  (136)
Disposed on  
exercise of options –  –  4,541  –  –  (4,449) 92  –  –  92 
Purchase of  
own shares –  –  (3,138) –  –  –  (3,138) –  –  (3,138)
Purchase of  
non-controlling  
interest –  –  –  –  –  (1,513) (1,513) –  (281) (1,794)
Increase in  
non-controlling  
interest –  –  –  –  –  (5) (5) –  8  3 
Investment by  
non-controlling  
shareholder –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  108  108 
Equity dividends –  –  –  –  –  (3,843) (3,843) –  –  (3,843)
Credit in relation  
to share based  
payments –  –  –  –  –  1,170  1,170  –  –  1,170 
Tax on share  
based payment  
exercises –  –  –  –  –  (138) (138) –  –  (138)
Dividends to  
non-controlling  
interests –  –  –  –  –  –  –  – (735) (735)
Balance at  
31 December  
2010 18,381  63,366  (4,003) 32,385  1,141  24,882  136,152  (2,000) 1,184  135,336 
                            17 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  53
        Written 
      Accum-  put options 
    Capital  ulated  over non- Non- 
 Share Share Own reduction  Translation profit/  controlling controlling 
 capital premium shares reserve reserves (loss) Total interests interests Total 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at  
1 January  
2011 18,381  63,366  (4,003) 32,385  1,141  24,882  136,152  (2,000) 1,184  135,336 
Total  
comprehensive  
income for  
the year –  –  –  –  (473) 15,536  15,063  –  1,724  16,787 
Transactions with  
owners:
Acquisition  
of subsidiaries 535  4,976  – – – – 5,511  – 209  5,720 
Share placing 1,178  11,072  – – – – 12,250  – – 12,250 
Issued to staff  
under options 75  442  – – – – 517  – – 517 
Share issue costs – (503) – – – – (503) – – (503)
Disposed on  
exercise of options – – 762  – – (738) 24  – – 24 
Purchase of  
own shares – – (950) – – – (950) – – (950)
Purchase of  
non-controlling  
interest 68  633  – – – (3,210) (2,509) 2,000  (973) (1,482)
Investment by  
non-controlling  
shareholder –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  5  5 
Equity dividends – – – – – (5,011) (5,011) – – (5,011)
Credit in relation  
to share based  
payments – – – – – 801  801  – – 801 
Tax on share  
based payment  
exercises – – – – – 68  68  – – 68 
Dividends to  
non-controlling  
interests – – – – – – –  – (1,176) (1,176)
Balance at  
31 December  
2011 20,237  79,986  (4,191) 32,385  668  32,328  161,413  –  973  162,386 
                            18 / 109  
54  Chime Communications plc
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Year ended 31 December 2011
   2011 2010 
  Notes £’000 £’000
Net cash from operating activities  29 12,876  16,448 
Investing activities
Interest received   51  74 
Dividends received from investments   71  357 
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment   33  63 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment   (4,994) (2,295)
Purchases of other intangible assets   (31) (10)
Proceeds from disposal of available for sale investment   –  – 
Loans repaid by/(granted to) associates   25  42 
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired)   (13,511) (7,968)
Acquisition of available for sale investment   (690) –
Investment by non-controlling shareholder   5  108 
Purchase of non-controlling interest   (2,469) (1,795)
Disposal of subsidiary/associate   30  68 
Disposal of shares in subsidiary to non-controlling shareholder   –  3 
Deferred consideration received   84  100 
Net cash used in investing activities   (21,396) (11,253)
Financing activities
Dividend paid   (5,011) (3,843)
Dividends paid to minorities   (1,176) (735)
Increase in borrowings   4,451  2,900 
Repayment of obligations under finance leases   (61) (12)
Proceeds on issue of ordinary share capital   12,265  4,572 
Purchase of own shares   (925) (3,046)
Net cash from financing activities   9,543  (164)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents   1,023  5,031 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year   10,278  5,296 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes   19  (49)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year   11,320  10,278 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and loan note deposits less overdrafts.
Net cash comprises:
Cash and cash equivalents   11,320  10,278 
Bank loans  25 (7,769) (3,300)
Finance leases  24 (150) (40)
Loan notes outstanding  23 (58) (58)
Overall net cash   3,343  6,880 
                            25 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  55
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended 31 December 2011
1. General Information
Chime Communications plc is a Company 
incorporated in Great Britain under the Companies 
Act 2006. The address of the registered office is 
No. 14 Curzon Street, London, W1J 5HN, United 
Kingdom. The nature of the Group’s operations 
consist principally of public relations, advertising, 
sports marketing, market research, direct marketing, 
design and event management consultancy.
These financial statements are presented in pounds 
sterling because that is the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the Group operates. 
Foreign operations are included in accordance with 
the policies set out in note 2. The Group’s overseas 
operations are principally conducted in US Dollars or 
Euros. The rates used are as follows:
  
  
  Closing   Closing   
  rate as at Average rate as at Average 
  31 December  rate 31 December rate 
Currency   2011 2011 2010 2010
US Dollar  1.54560  1.60436 1.54679  1.54632
Euro  1.19360  1.15275  1.16716  1.16605 
2. Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards. The financial statements have also been 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) 
adopted for use in the European Union and therefore 
comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on 
the historical cost basis except for certain financial 
instruments that are carried at fair value in accordance 
with the accounting policies set out below. 
Accounting policies have been applied consistently 
between years with the exception of the new 
standards or amendments adopted in the year.
Critical accounting judgments and key sources of 
estimation uncertainty
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting 
policies, Management is required to make judgments, 
estimates and assumptions that may affect the 
financial statements. Management believes that 
the judgments made in the preparation of the 
financial statements are reasonable. However, actual 
outcomes may differ from those anticipated.
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other 
key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance 
sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing 
a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are 
discussed below:
Valuation and asset lives of separately identifiable 
intangible assets
In order to determine the value of the separately 
identifiable assets on the acquisition of a business 
combination, management are required to make 
estimates when utilising the Group’s valuation 
methodologies. These methodologies include the use 
of discounted cash flows, revenue and profit before 
tax multiples. Asset lives are estimated based on the 
nature of the intangible asset acquired and range 
between 4 and 8 years and indefinite lives.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets
There are a number of assumptions Management 
has considered in performing impairment reviews 
of goodwill and intangible assets, as determining 
whether goodwill or intangible assets are impaired 
requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash 
generating units to which goodwill has been allocated. 
The value in use calculation requires Directors to 
estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from 
the cash generating unit and a suitable discount rate 
in order to calculate net present value. Note 13 details 
the assumptions that have been applied.
Contingent consideration
Contingent consideration relating to acquisitions has 
been included based on management estimates of 
the most likely outcome (notes 26 and 31).
Revenue and cost recognition on long term contracts
Revenue and costs are recognised on long term 
contracts by reference to the stage of completion of 
activity under that contract as at the balance sheet 
date. Management has considered the stage of 
completion of each contract and made a number 
of assumptions in order to estimate the relevant 
revenues and costs to recognise under these 
contracts. Management are satisfied that the amounts 
recognised in 2011 are appropriate and consistent 
with the terms of the contracts and the stage of  
work completed.
                            28 / 109  
56  Chime Communications plc
Headline results
Management believes that headline operating profit 
(note 4) and headline earnings per share (note 12) 
provide additional useful information on underlying 
trends to shareholders. These measures are used 
for internal performance analysis and incentive 
compensation arrangements for employees. The term 
headline is not a defined term under IFRS and may 
not therefore be comparable with similarly titled profit 
measurements reported by other companies. It is not 
intended to be a substitute for, or superior to IFRS 
measurements of profits. The principal adjustments 
made are in respect of:
•	 Restructuring	costs	–	the	costs	incurred	by	the	
Group in reorganising and integrating acquired 
businesses, non-recurring business restructuring, 
closure or disposal of businesses, onerous 
lease costs, and costs associated with senior 
management level changes;
•	 Finance	income	and	costs	–	the	costs	incurred	by	
the Group in reorganising financing arrangements;
•	 Amortisation	and	impairment	of	acquired	intangible	
fixed assets and goodwill – the Group continues to 
amortise these intangible fixed assets and test for 
impairment of these assets but does not see these 
charges as integral to underlying trading;
•	 Costs	of	business	combinations	–	IFRS	3	(revised)	
requires transaction costs, changes in the value 
of contingent consideration, settlement of pre-
existing contracts and share-based payments to be 
expensed, management do not see these charges 
as integral to the underlying trading; and
•	 Attributable	current	and	deferred	tax	impact	of	the	
above items.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate 
the financial statements of the Company and entities 
controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) made up 
to 31 December each year. Control is achieved where 
the Company has the power to govern the financial 
and operating policies of an investee entity so as to 
obtain benefits from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and 
contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured 
at their fair values at the date of acquisition. Any 
excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values 
of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised 
as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition 
below the fair values of the identifiable net assets 
acquired (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited to 
the income statement in the period of acquisition. The 
interest of non-controlling shareholders is stated at 
the non-controlling shareholder’s proportion of the fair 
values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed 
of during the year are included in the consolidated 
income statement from the effective date of 
acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as 
appropriate. Following the adoption of IAS 27 during 
the year, transactions to acquire non-controlling 
shareholders’ interests in a subsidiary are recorded  
in equity.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the 
financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the 
accounting policies used into line with those used by 
the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and 
expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Going concern
The Directors have, at the time of approving the 
financial statements, a reasonable expectation 
that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for 
the foreseeable future. They continue to adopt the 
going concern basis of accounting in preparing the 
financial statements. Further detail is contained in the 
Corporate Governance Report on page 23.
Investments in associates
An associate is an entity over which the Group is 
in a position to exercise significant influence, but 
not control or joint control, through participation in 
the financial and operating policy decisions of the 
investee.
The results, assets and liabilities of associates are 
incorporated in these financial statements using the 
equity method of accounting except when classified 
as held for sale. Investments in associates are 
carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by 
post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of 
the net assets of the associate, less any impairment 
in the value of individual investments. Losses of the 
associates in excess of the Group’s interest in those 
associates are not recognised, unless the Group has 
incurred a legal or constructive obligation or made 
payments on behalf of the associate.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s 
share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of 
the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised 
as goodwill and is included in the carrying value of the 
investment. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition 
below the Group’s share of the fair values of the 
identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of 
acquisition (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited in 
the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
                            29 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  57
Where a group company transacts with an associate 
of the Group, unrealised profits and losses are 
eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the 
relevant associate.
Other investments
Other investments represent investments in equity 
securities that present the Group with opportunity for 
return through dividend income and trading gains. 
They have no fixed maturity or coupon rate. The fair 
values of the listed securities are based on quoted 
market prices. For unlisted securities, where market 
value is not available, the Group estimates relevant fair 
values on the basis of publicly available information 
from outside sources. Where this is not possible, 
investments are held at cost and are reviewed for 
impairment.
Other investments are designated as ‘available for 
sale’ and are shown at fair value with any movements 
in fair value taken to equity.
On disposal the cumulative gain or loss previously 
recognised in equity is included within the profit or 
loss for the year. Impairment losses recognised in 
profit or loss for equity investments classified as 
‘available for sale’ are not subsequently reversed 
through profit or loss.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the 
excess of the fair value of consideration over the 
Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised. 
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed 
for impairment at least annually. Any impairment 
is recognised in the income statement and is not 
subsequently reversed.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date 
of transition to IFRSs has been retained at the 
previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested 
for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to 
reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been 
reinstated and is not included in determining any 
subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
For acquisitions accounted for under IFRS 3 the 
consideration used in the calculation of goodwill 
includes third party costs incurred to effect the 
acquisition. Following the adoption of IFRS 3 (revised) 
(acquisitions from 1 January 2010) these costs are 
expensed through the income statement and included 
in costs of acquisitions.
On disposal of a subsidiary or associate, the 
attributable amount of goodwill is included in the 
determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
For acquisitions accounted for under IFRS 3, future 
anticipated payments to vendors in respect of 
earnouts are based on the Directors’ best estimates 
of future obligations, which are dependent on future 
performance of the interests acquired and assume 
the operating companies improve profits in line with 
Directors’ estimates and are included in liabilities 
greater or less than one year as appropriate. Following 
the adoption of IFRS 3 (revised), changes to earnouts 
are recorded in the income statement through costs 
of acquisitions. In both instances, when earnouts are 
to be settled in cash or share consideration, the fair 
value of the consideration is obtained by discounting 
to present value the amounts expected to be payable 
in the future. The resulting interest charge is included 
within finance costs of deferred consideration.
In accordance with IFRS an impairment charge 
is required for both goodwill and other indefinite 
lived assets when the carrying amount exceeds 
the ‘recoverable amount’, defined as the higher of 
fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Our 
approach in determining the recoverable amount 
utilises a discounted cash flow methodology, which 
necessarily involves making numerous estimates and 
assumptions regarding revenue growth, operating 
margins, tax rates, appropriate discount rates and 
working capital requirements. These estimates will 
likely differ from future actual results of operations and 
cash flows, and it is possible that these differences 
could be material. In addition, judgments are applied 
in determining the level of cash-generating unit we 
identify for impairment testing and the criteria we use 
to determine which assets should be aggregated.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the 
consideration received or receivable and comprises 
the gross amounts billed to clients in respect of 
fees earned, expenses recharged and commission-
based income. Revenue is recognised in the income 
statement when the economic benefits arising from an 
arrangement are probable.
Operating income is revenue less amounts payable 
on behalf of clients to external suppliers where they 
are retained to perform part of a specific client project 
or service, and represents fees, commissions and 
mark-ups on rechargeable expenses and marketing 
products.
Contractual arrangements are reviewed to ascertain 
whether the group acts as principal or agent with 
regards to third party costs. If the relationship is that 
of agent then the recharge of third party costs is not 
recognised through revenue or cost of sales.
                            30 / 109  
58  Chime Communications plc
Revenue and operating income are stated exclusive of 
VAT, sales taxes and trade discounts.
Public Relations
Revenue is typically derived from retainer fees and 
services performed subject to specific agreement. 
Revenue is recognised when the service is performed 
in accordance with the contractual arrangement. 
Revenue is recognised on long-term contracts 
through an assessment of the time incurred to date 
compared to the total hours required to complete the 
contract, and an assessment of the value delivered 
to the client compared to the total value of the 
contract. If the outcome of these can be assessed 
with reasonable certainty, revenue and related costs 
are recognised in the income statement. Losses are 
recognised as soon as they are foreseen.
Advertising and Marketing Services, Sports 
Marketing, and Insight and Engagement
Apart from where it is derived from retainer contracts 
(as above), operating income is recognised on 
each contract in proportion to the level of services 
performed. Costs relating to contracts in progress at 
the balance sheet date are carried forward in work  
in progress. Losses are recognised as soon as they 
are foreseen.
The Group receives volume rebates from certain 
suppliers for transactions entered into on behalf of 
clients. Based on the terms of the relevant contracts 
and local law these are either remitted to clients or 
retained by the Group. If amounts are passed on to 
clients they are recorded as liabilities until settled or,  
if retained by the Group, are recorded as revenue 
when earned.
Long term contracts
Where the outcome of a long-term contract for 
services or goods can be estimated reliably, revenue 
and costs are recognised by reference to the stage 
of completion of the contract activity at the balance 
sheet date. When it is probable that total contract 
costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected 
loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the 
terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are 
classified as operating leases. Assets held under finance 
leases and the related lease obligations are recorded in 
the balance sheet at the fair value of the leased assets 
at the inception of the leases or, if lower, the present 
value of minimum lease payments. The excess of the 
lease payments over the recorded lease obligations is 
treated as finance charges which are amortised over 
each lease term to give a constant rate of charge on 
the remaining balance of the obligation.
Rental costs under operating leases are charged to 
the income statement in equal annual amounts over 
the periods of the leases.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to 
enter into an operating lease are also spread on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term.
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in UK companies denominated in 
currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at 
the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the 
transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary 
assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign 
currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on 
the balance sheet date. Gains and losses arising on 
retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the 
period. Non-monetary items that are measured in 
terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not 
retranslated.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the 
Group’s overseas operations are translated at the 
exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. 
Income and expenses are translated at the average 
exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates 
fluctuate significantly. Exchange differences arising, 
if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the 
Group’s translation reserve. Such translation reserve 
differences are recognised as income or as expenses 
in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial 
assets and liabilities are reported as part of the fair 
value gain or loss. Translation differences on non-
monetary financial assets, such as investments in 
equity securities classified as available for sale, are 
included in the fair value reserve in equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the 
acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets 
and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the 
closing rate. 
Finance costs
Finance costs, which include interest and bank 
charges, are recognised in the income statement in 
the year in which they are incurred.
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated before the share of results of 
associate, investment income and finance costs. 
Retirement benefit costs 
The pension cost is the amount of contributions 
payable by the Group to the defined contribution 
pension scheme and to personal pension schemes 
of certain employees during the accounting period. 
These are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
                            31 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  59
Long term incentive schemes
The group operates a number of long term incentive 
schemes to remunerate certain employees. Benefits 
accruing under these schemes are recognised in the 
income statement at fair value as they are accrued.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax 
currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit 
for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as 
reported in the income statement because it excludes 
items of income or expense that are taxable or 
deductible in other years and it further excludes items 
that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s 
liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the 
balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or 
recoverable on differences between the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in 
the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted 
for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred 
tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences and deferred tax assets 
are recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that taxable profits will be available against which 
deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if 
the temporary difference arises from goodwill or 
from the initial recognition (other than in a business 
combination) of other assets and liabilities in a 
transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the 
accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable 
temporary differences arising on investments in 
subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint 
ventures, except where the Group is able to control 
the reversal of the temporary difference and it is 
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is 
reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to 
the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient 
taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of 
the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are 
expected to apply in the period when the liability is 
settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged 
or credited in the income statement, except when  
it relates to items charged or credited directly to 
equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt 
with in equity.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets comprise acquired customer 
relationships and contracts, brands and computer 
software. Customer relationships and corporate brand 
names acquired as part of acquisitions of business are 
capitalised separately from goodwill as an intangible 
if their value can be measured reliably on initial 
recognition and it is probable that the expected future 
economic benefit that are attributable to the asset will 
flow to the Group. Corporate brands are considered 
to have indefinite economic life and are therefore 
tested annually for impairment. Computer software 
is capitalised based on the cost incurred to acquire 
and bring to use the specific software. Intangible 
assets are stated at cost net of amortisation and any 
provision for impairment. The costs are amortised over 
their estimated useful lives using the following rates:
Computer software 4 years
Customer relationships 4 – 8 years
Brand names Indefinite life
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost net 
of depreciation and any provision for impairment. 
Depreciation is provided in equal instalments to write 
off the cost less residual value over the estimated 
useful economic lives of asset type as follows:
Short-term leasehold improvements 5 years
Motor vehicles    6 years
Fixtures, fittings and equipment  4 years
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated 
over their expected useful lives on the same basis 
as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the 
relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset 
is determined as the difference between the sales 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is 
recognised in the income statement.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the 
carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets 
to determine whether there is any indication that 
those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any 
such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the 
asset is estimated in order to determine the extent 
of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does 
not generate cash flows that are independent from 
other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable 
amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset 
belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful 
life is tested for impairment annually or whenever there 
is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less 
costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in 
                            32 / 109  
60  Chime Communications plc
use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted 
to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset for 
which estimates of future cash flows have not been 
adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-
generating unit) is estimated to be less than its 
carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset 
(cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable 
amount. An impairment loss is immediately recognised 
as an expense in the income statement.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the 
carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) 
is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable 
amount, but so that the increased carrying amount 
does not exceed the carrying amount that would 
have been determined had no impairment loss been 
recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in  
prior years.
Work in progress
Work in progress is stated at the lower of invoiced 
cost and net realisable value, net of payments 
received on account. Cost represents work supplied 
from outside the Group awaiting billing to clients at the 
year-end and directly attributable overhead costs.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a 
present obligation as a result of a past event and it is 
probable that the Group will be required to settle that 
obligation, and are discounted to present value where 
the effect is material.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised 
on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group 
becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the 
instrument.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash comprises cash, overdrafts and cash held 
on short-term deposit (up to three months). Cash 
equivalents are cash deposits held on three months 
deposit at the Royal Bank of Scotland plc. The 
deposits guarantee the loan note creditors. Interest 
accruing on the deposits are payable to the holders of 
the loan notes less any costs arising.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and 
are stated at their nominal value as reduced by 
appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable 
amounts. 
Investments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a 
trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment 
is under contract whose terms require the delivery of 
the investment within the timeframe established by the 
market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, 
including transaction costs.
Investments are classified either as available for sale, 
and are measured at subsequent reporting dates at 
fair value, or at amortised cost, where no fair value is 
readily determinable. Gains and losses on available for 
sale financial assets arising from changes in fair value 
are recognised directly in equity, until the security is 
disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at  
which time the cumulative gain or loss previously 
recognised in equity is included in the net profit  
or loss for the period.
Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are 
recorded at the fair value of proceeds received, net of 
direct issue costs.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated 
at their nominal value.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are 
recorded at the fair value of proceeds received, net of 
direct issue costs.
Put options over equity
Put options over equity are held on the balance sheet 
at fair value, with movements in fair value being taken 
to the income statement.
Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 
Share-based Payments. IFRS 2 has been applied to 
all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 
that were invested as of 1 January 2005.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based 
payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-
based payments are measured at fair value at the 
date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant 
date of the equity-settled share-based payments is 
expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting 
period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that 
will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-
market based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured for all schemes with market-
based conditions by use of the Monte Carlo model. 
For all other schemes, fair value is measured by use  
of the Black-Scholes model. The expected life used  
in the model has been adjusted, based on 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
                            33 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  61
management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-
transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural 
considerations.
A liability equal to the portion of the goods or services 
received is recognised at the current fair value 
determined at each balance sheet date for cash-
settled share-based payments.
The Group also provides employees with the ability to 
purchase the Group’s ordinary shares at 80% of the 
current market value. The Group records an expense, 
based on its estimate of the 20% discount related to 
shares expected to vest on a straight-line basis over 
the vesting period. Further details are included in note 
33 to the accounts.
Standards not affecting the reported results nor 
the financial position 
The following new and revised Standards and 
Interpretations have been adopted in the current year. 
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on 
the amounts reported in these financial statements 
but may impact the accounting for future transactions 
and arrangements.
•	 IFRIC	19:	Extinguishing	Financial	Liabilities	with	
Equity Instruments.
•	 IAS	24	(revised):	Related	Party	Disclosures	–	
Amendments relating to partial exemptions for 
government-related entities and revised definition of 
a related party.
•	 Improvements	to	IFRSs	(2010)	–	These	relate	 
to IFRS 1: First-time adoption of IFRS; IFRS 3  
(Revised): Business Combinations; IFRS 7: 
Financial Instruments: Disclosures; IAS 1 (Revised): 
Presentation of financial statements; and IAS 34: 
Interim financial reporting.
Standard Effective date
•	 IFRS	7:	Financial	Instruments:	Disclosures	–	Enhanced	disclosure	
requirements for transfers of financial assets.
•	 IFRS	1:	First-time	Adoption	of	International	Financial	Reporting	
Standards – Additional exemption for entities ceasing to suffer from 
severe hyperinflation.
•	 IAS	12:	Income	Taxes	–	Limited	scope	amendment	(recovery	of	
underlying assets).
•	 IAS	1	(revised):	Presentation	of	financial	statements	–	 
Amendments to the presentation requirements for items of  
Other Comprehensive Income.
•	 IFRS	10:	Consolidated	Financial	Statements	–	New	standard	 
to supersede IAS 27 and amend the definition of control over  
other entities.
•	 IFRS	11:	Joint	Arrangements	–	New	standard	to	supersede	 
IAS 31 and remove the option of proportionate consolidation  
for jointly controlled entities.
•	 IFRS	12:	Disclosure	of	Interests	in	Other	Entities	–	New	standard	
clarifying disclosures required for all forms of interests in  
other entities.
•	 IFRS	13:	Fair	Value	Measurement	–	New	standard	setting	a	
framework for the measurement and disclosure of fair values.
•	 IAS	27:	Separate	Financial	Statements	–	Amendment	to	IAS	27	
for accounting and disclosure requirements for investments in 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
Annual periods beginning on or after 
1 July 2011
Annual periods beginning on or after 
1 July 2011 
Annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2012
Annual periods beginning on or after 
1 July 2012 
Annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2013 
Annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2013 
Annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2013 
Annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2013
Annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2013
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have 
not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases had not  
yet been adopted by the EU):
                            34 / 109  
62  Chime Communications plc
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011 
Standard Effective date
•	 IAS	28:	Investments	in	Associates	and	Joint	Ventures	–	Amendment	
to IAS 28 to include Joint Ventures.
•	 IFRS	7:	Financial	Instruments:	Disclosures	–	Amendment	 
to disclosures in relation to offsetting financial assets and  
financial liabilities.
•	 IAS	32:	Financial	Instruments:	Presentation	–	Amendment	to	 
clarify the offsetting requirements in the existing standard.
•	 IFRS	9:	Financial	Instruments	–	Various	amendments	to	expand	 
the scope of the standard with the aim of replacing IAS 39.
Annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2013
Annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2013 
Annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2014
Annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2015
A full review of the impact will be performed in due course but these amendments are not expected to have  
a significant impact on the Group.
3. Business and geographical segments
Business segments
Segmental reporting 
For management purposes, the Group is currently 
organised into four operating segments: Public 
Relations, Advertising and Marketing Services, Sports 
Marketing, and Insight and Engagement.
Principal activities are as follows:
Public Relations
The Public Relations division comprises some of 
the leading names in the industry, including Bell 
Pottinger, Pelham Bell Pottinger, Good Relations, 
Harvard, Insight, Resonate, TTA Public Relations 
and Corporate Citizenship. It is the number 1 ranked 
PR Group in the UK in the PR Week public relations 
consultancy league table for 2011. It serves major 
UK and international brands, as well as governments, 
government departments, pharmaceutical and 
healthcare companies, charities, not-for-profit 
organisations, professional service firms, consumer 
brands and famous people. Public Relations also 
includes OPEN Health which commenced trading in 
2011, and into which was acquired OPEN LEC and 
Reynolds Mackenzie during the year.
Advertising and Marketing Services (‘AMS’)
The AMS division includes the VCCP Group and 
Teamspirit. It possesses specialist skills in advertising 
and marketing services; direct marketing, digital 
communication, search relations, point of sale, sales 
promotion and specialist media planning and buying. 
It also specialises in the niche market of financial 
services. VCCP Group was named Advertising 
Agency of the year in 2011 by Marketing Magazine 
for the second time in three years. AMS also includes 
Gulliford Consulting which was acquired in 2011.
Sports Marketing
The Sports Marketing division is the UK’s number one 
sports marketing group (Marketing Magazine, October 
2011) and includes Fast Track, the Essentially Group, 
and The Sports Business, as well as Icon and Golden 
Goal which were acquired in 2011.
Insight and Engagement
The Insight and Engagement division (previously 
Research) is made up of Opinion Leader, Facts 
International and Tree.
                            35 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  63
Segment information about these businesses is presented below: 
  Advertising  
  and  
 Public Marketing Sports Insight and 
 Relations Services Marketing Engagement Elimination Consolidated 
2011 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
External sales 143,638  87,340  82,837  12,118  –  325,933 
Inter-segment sales 21,223  12,865  2,994  3,501  (40,583) – 
Total revenue 164,861  100,205  85,831  15,619  (40,583) 325,933 
Segment result
Operating income 69,173  46,531  40,021  7,901  –  163,626 
Operating profit/(loss) by segment 15,115  5,850  5,884  872  –  27,721 
Unallocated corporate expenses      (2,194)
Operating profit      25,527 
Share of results of associates      344 
Investment income      110 
Finance costs      (468)
Finance cost of deferred consideration      (826)
Profit before tax      24,687 
Tax      (7,473)
Profit for the year      17,214 
Other segment information
Capital additions 1,176  1,434  2,332  52  –  4,994 
Depreciation and amortisation 906  707  2,657  219  –  4,489 
Goodwill 40,934  44,247  82,741  8,799  –  176,721 
Balance sheet
Assets
Segment assets (including goodwill) 74,661  69,668  108,097  10,387  – 262,813 
Investments in associates      716 
Unallocated corporate assets      11,165 
Consolidated total assets      274,694 
Liabilities
Segment liabilities 31,748  22,159  30,870  2,167  – 86,944 
Unallocated corporate liabilities      25,364 
Consolidated total liabilities      112,308 
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market prices that would also be available to unrelated third parties. 
There are no significant discontinued operations in 2011 (2010: nil).
                            36 / 109  
64  Chime Communications plc
3. Business and geographical segments (continued)
  Advertising  
  and  
 Public Marketing Sports Insight and 
 Relations Services Marketing Engagement Elimination Consolidated 
2010 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
External sales 164,455  74,733  50,307  10,305  –  299,800 
Inter-segment sales 39,209  17,973  2,044  2,326  (61,552) – 
Total revenue 203,664  92,706  52,351  12,631  (61,552) 299,800 
Segment result
Operating income 72,822  39,718  29,421  7,301  –  149,262 
Operating profit/(loss) by segment 15,641  4,226  3,271  (145) –  22,993 
Unallocated corporate expenses      (875)
Operating profit      22,118 
Share of results of associates      173 
Investment income      74 
Finance costs      (432)
Finance cost of deferred consideration      (693)
Profit before tax      21,240 
Tax      (6,505)
Profit for the year      14,735 
Other segment information
Capital additions 639  1,252  318  127  –  2,336 
Depreciation and amortisation 891  1,047  1,326  223  –  3,487 
Goodwill 37,368  40,006  63,314  8,799  –  149,487 
Balance sheet
Assets
Segment assets (including goodwill) 85,532  62,067  71,047  12,167  – 230,813 
Investments in associates      359 
Unallocated corporate assets      8,851 
Consolidated total assets      240,023 
Liabilities
Segment liabilities 44,987  21,697  16,087  2,470  – 85,241 
Unallocated corporate liabilities      19,446 
Consolidated total liabilities      104,687 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
                            37 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  65
Revenue by geographical segment
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
United Kingdom   169,639  138,115 
Europe & Africa   47,853  33,230 
Middle East   74,437  91,830 
USA   13,152  19,349 
Rest of the World   20,852  17,276 
   325,933  299,800 
The following is an analysis of the carrying amount of segment assets, and additions to tangible assets and 
intangible assets, analysed by the geographical area in which the assets are located:
Carrying amount of segment assets
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
United Kingdom   252,785  229,044 
Europe, Middle East & Africa   12,431  6,857 
USA and Rest of the World   9,478  4,122 
   274,694  240,023 
Capital additions
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
United Kingdom   4,492  1,908 
Europe, Middle East & Africa   452  227 
USA and Rest of the World   50  201 
   4,994  2,336 
Geographical segments:
The Group’s operations are located in the United 
Kingdom, Europe, the Middle East, the Far East, the 
USA, South America, Africa, and Australasia. The 
Group’s Advertising and Marketing Services division 
is located in the United Kingdom and continental 
Europe. Public relations is carried out in the United 
Kingdom, Europe, Africa, the Middle East, the Far 
East and the USA. The Sports Marketing division 
is located in the United Kingdom, the Middle East, 
the Far East, South America, Europe, Africa and 
Australasia. The Insight and Engagement division is 
located solely in the United Kingdom.
The following table provides an analysis of the 
Group’s revenue by geographical market, based on 
the billing location of the client:
                            38 / 109  
66  Chime Communications plc
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
4. Headline results
 Year ended  Year ended 
 31 December 2011 31 December 2010
 Operating  Profit Operating Profit 
 profit before tax profit before tax 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Reconciliation of reported profit to  
headline amounts
Reported 25,527  24,687  22,118  21,240 
Adjusting items
Costs of acquisitions and restructuring* 3,031  3,031  2,217  2,217 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles and  
goodwill impairment 3,299  3,299  3,016  3,016 
Headline amounts (before tax) 31,857  31,017  27,351  26,473 
Tax  (7,473)  (6,505)
Tax impact of adjusting items  (1,002)  (992)
Headline profit for the year (after tax)  22,542   18,976 
Non-controlling interests  (1,678)  (1,579)
Headline profit for the year (after tax)  
attributable to equity holders of the parent  20,864   17,397 
*Cost of acquisitions and restructuring includes costs incurred by the Group in reorganising and integrating acquired businesses, non-recurring 
business restructuring, onerous lease costs and costs associated with senior management changes. Costs have been incurred in the PR division 
(£836,000), Advertising and Marketing Services (£559,000) and Sports Marketing (£166,000). £1,470,000 relating to acquisitions and restructuring  
was recorded centrally. 
Included within costs of acquisition and restructuring is £1,092,000 relating to the first six months of 2011 that 
was not previously disclosed under this heading in the results to 30 June 2011.
The prior year tax impact of adjusting items has been adjusted to be consistent with the current year treatment.
5. Operating profit
Profit from continuing operations has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Depreciation of owned property, plant and equipment   2,597  2,133 
Depreciation of assets held under finance leases   30  2 
Amortisation of other intangible assets – computer software   13  20 
Amortisation of other intangible assets – customer relationships   1,850  1,332 
Impairment of goodwill   1,449  1,683 
Rentals under operating leases – property   4,975  5,176 
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment   24  15 
Staff costs (see note 6)   96,588  90,509 
Net foreign exchange profits   (18) (199)
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services (see below)   328  315 
                            39 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  67
A more detailed analysis of auditors’ remuneration is provided below:
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 80  80 
Fees payable to the company’s auditors and their associates for other services
– pursuant to legislation   17  17 
– the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation   231  218 
Total audit fees   328  315 
Tax services   58  173 
Other services   2 2 
Total non-audit fees   60  175 
Total fees paid to Company’s auditors   388  490 
6. Staff costs
Average number of staff:
   2011 2010 
   Number Number
Public Relations   553 503 
Advertising & Marketing Services   446 371 
Sports Marketing   356 275 
Insight and Engagement   102 100 
   1,457 1,249 
Staff costs:
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Wages & Salaries   83,548  77,581 
Social Security costs   9,248  8,291 
Pension costs   2,991  3,467 
Share based payment awards granted to Directors and employees  801  1,170 
   96,588  90,509 
The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme for the benefit of the majority of employees.  
This is an independently administered fund, the assets of which are held separately from those of the Company. 
7. Investment income
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Dividend received   59  –
Interest on bank deposits   26  54 
Other interest receivable   25  20 
   110  74 
                            40 / 109  
68  Chime Communications plc
8. Finance costs
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans   (446) (425)
Interest on obligations under finance leases   (4) (5)
Other interest payable   (18) (2)
   (468) (432)
Finance cost of deferred consideration   (826) (693)
   (1,294) (1,125)
9. Tax
UK Corporation tax is calculated at 26.5% of the estimated assessable profit for the year (2010: 28%).
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Current tax
UK corporation tax at 26.5% (2010: 28%)   7,467 6,407
Adjustment in respect of prior years   (77) (193)
   7,390 6,214
Foreign tax   760 359
Adjustment in respect of prior years   (157) 237
   7,993 6,810
Deferred tax
Current year originating temporary differences   (654) 25
Adjustment in respect of prior years   134 (330)
   (520) (305)
Tax charge for the year   7,473 6,505
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
                            41 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  69
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
 2011 2010
 £’000 % £’000 %
Profit before tax 24,687  21,240
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 26.5% (2010: 28%) 6,541 26.5% 5,947 28.0%
Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in  
determining taxable profits 1,217 4.9% 1,061 5.0%
Deemed interest on deferred consideration 212 0.9% 194 0.9%
Tax effect of increase in tax losses recognised (77) (0.3%) – –
Prior year corporation tax adjustment (234) (0.9%) 44 0.2%
Prior year deferred tax adjustment 134 0.5% (330) (1.6%)
Effect of reduction of tax rate on deferred tax 47 0.2%
Effect of differences in tax rates of subsidiaries  
operating in other jurisdictions (367) (1.5%) (411) (1.9%)
Tax expense and effective tax rate for the year 7,473 30.3% 6,505 30.6%
10. Deferred tax
Losses of £2.7 million in the UK (2010: £0.7 million) and $8.2 million in the US (2010: $6.5 million) have not been 
recognised in deferred taxation due to insufficient certainty that there will be appropriate profits available in the 
future to utilise them.
Finance Act 2011 was substantively enacted on 29 March 2011 and included legislation to reduce the main 
rate of corporation tax from 27% to 26% from 1 April 2011. Further reductions to the main rate are proposed to 
reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014 and are expected to be enacted separately each year. 
For the year ended 31 December 2011, as the further reduction in statutory rate by 1% has been substantively 
enacted, deferred tax has been recognised on the balance sheet at 25%.
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Deferred tax asset movement
At 1 January   734 1,448
Acquisition of subsidiaries   (63) (522)
Charge to equity   (159) (497)
Credit to the profit and loss account   520 305
At 31 December   1,032 734
Analysis of deferred tax asset
Depreciation in excess of capital allowances   685 700
Short term temporary differences   196 200
Share based payments   763 813
Losses   254 68
Intangibles   (866) (1,047)
   1,032 734
No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of £399,000 (2010: £396,000) relating to the 
unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these 
temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The temporary 
differences at 31 December 2011 represent only the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where 
remittance to the UK of those earnings may result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend withholding 
taxes levied by the overseas jurisdictions in which these subsidiaries operate. 
                            42 / 109  
70  Chime Communications plc
11. Dividends
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 4.21p per share  
(2009: 3.50p per share)   3,358  2,504 
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 2.08p per share  
(2010: 1.84p per share)   1,653  1,339 
   5,011  3,843 
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 4.50p per share  
(2010: 4.21p per share)   3,643 3,095 
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not 
been included as a liability in these financial statements. The dividend will be paid on 15 June 2012 to those 
shareholders on the register at 25 May 2012. The ex-dividend date is 23 May 2012.
Under an arrangement dated 3 April 1996, The Chime Communications Employee Trust which holds 1,774,266 
ordinary shares representing 2.2% of the Company’s called-up share capital, has agreed to waive dividends  
over 854,004 shares (1.1% of the Company’s called up share capital), the difference being those shares held 
under the deferred share scheme. 
12. Earnings per share
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
   2011 2010 
   pence pence
Earnings
Basic   20.17p 18.83p
Diluted   19.78p 18.43p
Headline Earnings Per Share
Basic   27.09p 24.90p
Diluted   26.56p 24.38p
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
   £’000 £’000
Earnings for the purposes of basic earnings per share  
being net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent   15,536  13,156 
Earnings for the purposes of headline earnings per share  
being net headline profit attributable to equity holders of the parent  20,864  17,397 
   Number Number
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes  
of basic earnings per share   77,018,437  69,876,099 
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
Deferred shares   915,090  883,807 
Share options   619,551  610,344 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes  
of diluted earnings per share   78,553,078  71,370,250 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
                            43 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  71
Diluted earnings per share is calculated on the profit for the year attributable to parent company shareholders 
divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year adjusted for the 
potentially dilutive impact of employee share incentive schemes and shares to be issued as part of deferred or 
contingent consideration on acquisitions of subsidiaries.
Some share options that had a higher purchase price than the average market price of the shares for the year 
ended 31 December 2011 were outstanding. These options have been excluded from the calculation of diluted 
earnings per share as they would have been antidilutive.
Headline earnings per share has been presented to allow shareholders a further understanding of the trading 
performance of the Company. The denominators used are the same as those detailed above for both basic  
and diluted earnings per share.
13. Goodwill
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Carrying amount at 1 January   149,487  144,960 
Exchange differences   (518) (186)
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries   36,751  1,807 
Impairment of goodwill   (1,449) (1,683)
Other changes in respect of prior year acquisitions   (7,550) 4,589 
At 31 December   176,721  149,487 
The impairment of goodwill of £1,449,000 relates to goodwill arising on a previous acquisition which is 
undergoing a strategic restructuring following deterioration in the results of the business. The impairment arises  
in the Public Relations division.
The adjustment arising on prior year acquisitions relates to the reassessment of contingent consideration arising 
on acquisitions prior to 31 December 2009.
In accordance with the Group’s accounting policy, the carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets 
are reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
asset might be impaired. The 2011 impairment review was undertaken as at 31 December 2011. The review 
assessed whether the carrying value of goodwill was supported by the net present value of future cash flows 
derived from assets using a projection period of up to five years for each cash-generating unit. The basis for this 
is the 2012 budget with growth rates of between 2% and 10%. The 2012 budgets are based on management’s 
best estimates taking into account prior period results and industry knowledge. After the projection period, steady 
growth has been assumed at rates not exceeding long-term average growth rates for the industry for each 
cash-generating unit, with no improvements in operating margin being assumed. An annual growth rate of 2% 
(2010: 2%) and a pre-tax discount rate of 11% (2010: 11%) have been assumed. For goodwill in the Brazilian 
subsidiaries, a pre-tax discount rate of 13% has been assumed.
The Board has considered reasonable possible sensitivities. If discount rates were increased by 1% and 
operating income reduced by 10% in each period, goodwill allocated to one of the group’s CGUs would be 
impaired by £1,442,000.
                            44 / 109  
72  Chime Communications plc
14. Acquisition of subsidiaries
ICON
On 6 April 2011 the group acquired 100% of Maidstone Road Holdings Limited, the holding company for  
Icon, for initial consideration of £11,600,000, of which £3,850,000 was paid in shares and £7,750,000 was  
paid in cash. Of the cash amount, £7,150,000 was funded through the placing as described in note 27. 
Additional consideration is payable contingent on the results of the business to 2014, capped at a maximum  
of £14,000,000. The consideration is payable in 2013 (maximum of £8,000,000) with the remainder payable  
in 2015. The total maximum consideration payable for Icon is £25,600,000.
The fair value of the consideration and net assets acquired are as detailed below.
   Fair value  Provisional 
  Book value adjustments Fair value 
  £’000  £’000 £’000
Goodwill  1,254  (1,254) – 
Other intangible assets  –  641  641 
Property, plant and equipment  771  –  771 
Debtors and other current assets  4,162  (68) 4,094 
Cash at bank  1,304  –  1,304 
Creditors  (5,957) 356  (5,601)
Deferred tax  46 (175) (129)
Net assets  1,580  (500) 1,080 
Minority interest    (296)
Fair value attributable to Chime    784 
Goodwill    19,446 
Fair value of consideration    20,230 
Cash outflow arising on acquisition (net of cash acquired)    (6,446)
The adjustments to goodwill and other intangibles are to derecognise the goodwill held by Icon from previous 
acquisitions and to recognise intangibles associated with customer relationships. Adjustments to debtors  
and other current assets relate to the elimination of balances not recognised under IFRS. The adjustments to 
creditors relates to additional accruals required by Chime’s accounting policies (£15,000) and an adjustment  
to corporation tax payable relating to the period prior to acquisition (£371,000). The adjustment to deferred  
tax is to recognise a deferred tax liability in respect of the intangible fixed assets detailed above.
Costs amounting to £307,000 have been expensed during the year and are included in costs of acquisitions.
Goodwill represents the specialist skills held by Icon, together with access to a new area of sports marketing and 
cross selling opportunities that arise.
Icon contributed revenue of £21,064,000 and operating profit of £2,177,000 to the results of the Group since 
acquisition. If the acquisition had been completed at the beginning of the year, Management estimate that 
Group revenue for the period would have been £328,473,000 and Group operating profit would have been 
£23,963,000.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
                            45 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  73
Golden Goal
On 1 June 2011 the group acquired 60% of Golden Goal Sports Ventures Gestão Esportiva Ltd (Golden 
Goal), a company incorporated in Brazil, for initial consideration of 6,384,000 Brazilian Reals (BRL), equivalent 
to £2,421,000. Additional consideration is payable contingent on the results of the business to 2016. Total 
consideration is capped at BRL 25,000,000 (approximately £10,000,000). The consideration is payable in 2014 
(maximum of BRL 6,116,000) with the remainder payable in 2017.
The fair value of the consideration and net assets acquired are as detailed below. 
   Fair value  Provisional 
  Book value adjustments Fair value 
  £’000  £’000 £’000
Intangible assets   –  395  395 
Property, plant and equipment  79  –  79 
Debtors and other current assets  241  –  241 
Cash at bank  114  –  114 
Creditors  (1,123) – (1,123)
Deferred tax  – (105) (105)
Net assets  (689) 290  (399)
Minority interest      118 
Fair value attributable to Chime    (281)
Goodwill    5,173 
Fair value of consideration      4,892 
Cash outflow arising on acquisition (net of cash acquired)    (2,307) 
The adjustments to other intangibles are to recognise intangibles associated with customer relationships. 
Adjustments to deferred tax are to recognise a deferred tax liability in respect of the intangible fixed assets 
detailed above.
Costs amounting to £157,000 have been expensed during the year and are included in costs of acquisitions.
Goodwill represents the specialist skills held by Golden Goal together with access to a new geographical  
location and opportunities which arise from the 2014 FIFA World Cup and the 2016 Olympic Games, both of 
which will be held in Brazil.
Golden Goal contributed revenue of £1,776,000 and operating profit of £160,000 to the results of the Group 
since acquisition. If the acquisition had been completed at the beginning of the year, Management estimate  
that Group revenue for the period would have been £326,929,000 and Group operating profit would have  
been £25,538,000.
                            46 / 109  
74  Chime Communications plc
14. Acquisition of subsidiaries (continued)
OPEN LEC
On 4 April 2011 the group acquired 100% of LEC Communications Limited group (OPEN LEC) for initial 
consideration of £911,000. Additional consideration is payable contingent on the results arising from existing 
clients of OPEN LEC over the two years following the acquisition, up to a maximum of £500,000. The 
consideration is payable in two tranches in 2012 and 2013. The total consideration is capped at £1,411,000.
OPEN LEC was acquired by Chime’s PR division as part of the OPEN Health offering, which was launched 
in January 2011. OPEN Health is a partnership between Chime and a number of individual healthcare 
communications specialists. Chime has contributed 51% of the capital of the partnership and receives 100% of 
the profits until such time that any loans to the partnership are repaid, after which the profit share attributable to 
Chime reverts to 51%. Chime provided all cash to finance the acquisition through a loan to the partnership.
The fair value of the consideration and net assets acquired are as detailed below. 
   Fair value  Provisional 
  Book value adjustments Fair value 
  £’000  £’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment  14  –  14 
Debtors and other current assets  360  –  360 
Cash at bank  946  –  946 
Creditors  (764) 175  (589)
Net assets  556  175 731 
Goodwill    569 
Fair value of consideration      1,300 
Cash inflow arising on acquisition (net of cash acquired)    35 
The adjustment to creditors is to recognise corporation tax receivable for the loss-making period pre-acquisition.
Costs amounting to £52,000 have been recognised as an expense during the year and are included in costs  
of acquisitions.
Goodwill represents the specialist skills held by OPEN LEC Limited, together with relationships with clients  
which may be leveraged by OPEN Health.
OPEN LEC contributed revenue of £1,173,000 and operating profit of £213,000 to the results of the Group  
since acquisition. If the acquisition had been completed at the beginning of the year, Management estimate  
that Group revenue for the period would have been £326,377,000 and Group operating profit would have  
been £25,136,000.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
                            47 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  75
Reynolds Mackenzie
On 12 July 2011 the group acquired 100% of Reynolds Mackenzie Limited for initial consideration of 
£2,053,000. Additional consideration is payable contingent on the results of the business to 2018, capped at 
a maximum of £6,947,000. The consideration is payable in three tranches in 2012, 2015 and 2018. The total 
consideration is capped at £9,000,000.
Reynolds Mackenzie was acquired by Chime’s PR division as part of the OPEN Health offering.
The fair value of the consideration and net assets acquired are as detailed below.
   Fair value  Provisional 
  Book value adjustments Fair value 
  £’000  £’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment  4  –  4 
Debtors and other current assets  624  (3) 621 
Cash at bank  560  –  560 
Creditors  (521) (114) (635)
Net assets  667  (117) 550 
Goodwill    4,365 
Fair value of consideration    4,915 
Cash outflow arising on acquisition (net of cash acquired)    (1,493) 
The adjustments to debtors are to increase the bad debt provision at the acquisition date. Adjustments to 
creditors, relate to additional accruals and amendments to revenue recognition in accordance with Chime’s 
accounting policies, and to recognise corporation tax due for the period pre-acquisition.
Costs amounting to £60,000 have been recognised as an expense during the year and are included in costs  
of acquisitions.
Goodwill represents the specialist skills held by Reynolds Mackenzie Limited, together with relationships with 
clients which may be leveraged by OPEN Health.
Reynolds Mackenzie contributed revenue of £1,779,000 and operating profit of £448,000 to the results of 
the Group since acquisition. If the acquisition had been completed at the beginning of the year, Management 
estimate that Group revenue for the period would have been £326,585,000 and Group operating profit would 
have been £25,692,000.
                            48 / 109  
76  Chime Communications plc
14. Acquisition of subsidiaries (continued)
Gulliford
On 10 October 2011 the group acquired 100% of Gulliford Consulting Limited, a company incorporated in 
the UK, for initial consideration of £2,480,000. Additional consideration is payable contingent on the future 
performance of the business. Total consideration is capped at £4,730,000. Consideration is payable in 
instalments once certain cumulative performance targets have been met, and is expected to be paid in 2016  
and 2017. The total fair value of the consideration has been estimated at £4,529,000.
Gulliford was acquired by Chime’s Advertising and Marketing Services division.
The fair value of the consideration and net assets acquired are as detailed below. No fair value adjustments  
were made in respect of the acquisition.
    Provisional  
    fair value 
    £’000
Property, plant and equipment    3 
Debtors and other current assets    57 
Cash at bank    374 
Creditors    (146)
Net assets    288 
Goodwill    4,241 
Fair value of consideration    4,529 
Cash outflow arising on acquisition (net of cash acquired)    (1,106) 
Costs amounting to £116,000 have been recognised as an expense during the year and are included in costs  
of acquisitions.
Goodwill represents the specialist skills held by Gulliford Consulting Limited, together with relationships with 
clients which may be leveraged by the group.
Gulliford contributed revenue of £316,000 and operating profit of £135,000 to the results of the Group since 
acquisition. If the acquisition had been completed at the beginning of the year, Management estimate that 
Group revenue for the period would have been £326,443,000 and Group operating profit would have been 
£25,736,000.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
                            49 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  77
Essentially France
On 23 December 2011 the group acquired 85% of Essentially France Limited for initial consideration of 
€2,061,000, equivalent to £1,724,000. Additional consideration is payable contingent on the results of the 
business to 2015, capped at a maximum of €1,577,000 (approximately £1,320,000). The total consideration 
payable is capped at €3,638,000. As part of the acquisition, €740,000 of the initial consideration was settled by 
transfer of receivables from Essentially France to the vendors and a further €192,000 was paid in cash to settle 
obligations of Essentially France.
Essentially France was acquired by Chime’s Sports Marketing division.
The fair value of the consideration and net assets acquired are as detailed below. The fair values have been 
estimated provisionally due to the proximity of the acquisition to the period end.
   Fair value  Provisional 
  Book value adjustments Fair value 
  £’000  £’000 £’000
Goodwill  2,488  (2,488) – 
Debtors and other current assets  899  –  899 
Cash at bank  –  –  – 
Creditors  (585) (105) (690)
Net assets  2,802  (2,593) 209 
Minority interest      (31)
Fair value attributable to Chime    178 
Goodwill    2,868 
Fair value of consideration      3,046 
Cash outflow arising on acquisition (net of cash acquired)    (1,265)
The adjustments to goodwill are to eliminate acquired goodwill in the company. Adjustments to creditors are to 
recognise corporation tax due for the period pre-acquisition.
Costs amounting to £269,000 have been recognised as an expense during the year and are included in costs  
of acquisitions.
Goodwill represents the specialist skills held by Essentially France Limited, together with relationships with clients 
which may be leveraged by the group.
Essentially France contributed no revenue or operating profit to the results of the Group after acquisition. If the 
acquisition had been completed at the beginning of the year, Management estimate that Group revenue for the 
period would have been £326,578,000 and Group operating profit would have been £25,852,000.
Cash flow on acquisitions
Other deferred consideration of £765,000 (2010: £3,393,000) was settled in cash during the year in respect of 
acquisitions made in previous years.
                            50 / 109  
78  Chime Communications plc
15. Other intangible assets
 Brand  Customer Computer 
 names relationships software Total 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2010 486  5,350  1,149  6,985 
Additions –  –  10  10 
Acquisition of subsidiary –  406  –  406 
At 1 January 2011 486  5,756  1,159  7,401 
Additions –  –  31  31 
Acquisition of subsidiary –  1,036  –  1,036 
Exchange differences –  (35) (2) (37)
At 31 December 2011 486  6,757  1,188  8,431 
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2010 –  629  1,116  1,745 
Charge for the year –  1,332  20  1,352 
At 1 January 2011 –  1,961  1,136  3,097 
Charge for the year –  1,850  13  1,863 
At 31 December 2011 –  3,811  1,149  4,960 
Net book amount
31 December 2011 486  2,946  39  3,471 
31 December 2010 486  3,795  23  4,304 
1 January 2010 486  4,721  33  5,240 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
                            51 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  79
16. Property, plant and equipment
 Short term   Fixtures 
 leasehold  Motor fittings and 
 improvements vehicles , equipment Total 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2010 5,325  484  7,091  12,900 
Additions 381  23  1,922  2,326 
Acquisition of subsidiary –  –  19  19 
Disposal of subsidiary –  –  (24) (24)
Exchange differences (1) 4  (34) (31)
Transfers (129) –  129  – 
Disposals (162) (241) (1,306) (1,709)
At 31 December 2010 5,414  270  7,797  13,481 
Additions 1,845  48  3,101  4,994 
Acquisition of subsidiary 314  86  471  871 
Disposal of subsidiary –  –  (25) (25)
Exchange differences –  –  (35) (35)
Transfers 5  –  (5) – 
Disposals (2,101) (115) (849) (3,065)
At 31 December 2011 5,477  289  10,455  16,221 
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2010 4,107  189  4,568  8,864 
Charge for the year 735  79  1,321  2,135 
Disposal of subsidiary –  –  (23) (23)
Transfers (93) –  93  – 
Exchange differences (1) 1  (26) (26)
Eliminated on disposal (161) (177) (1,294) (1,632)
At 31 December 2010 4,587  92  4,639  9,318 
Charge for the year 743  66  1,818  2,627 
Disposal of subsidiary –  –  (23) (23)
Transfers –  –  –  – 
Exchange differences –  –  (20) (20)
Eliminated on disposal (2,100) (75) (833) (3,008)
At 31 December 2011 3,230  83  5,581  8,894 
Net book amount
31 December 2011 2,247  206  4,874  7,327 
31 December 2010 827  178  3,158  4,163 
1 January 2010 1,218  295  2,523  4,036 
The carrying amount of the Group’s motor vehicles includes an amount of £118,000 (2010: £34,000) in respect 
of assets held under finance leases. As stated in note 24, the Group’s obligations under finance leases are 
secured by the lessor’s charges over the leased assets.
                            52 / 109  
80  Chime Communications plc
17. Subsidiaries and associates 
The Group’s principal trading subsidiaries and associated undertakings in 2011 are listed below:
    Proportion 
    of ordinary 
   Country of  shares held and 
Company Nature of business  Incorporation voting rights
Subsidiaries
Athletes 1 Australia PT Athletes management  
 and sports marketing  Australia  100%
Athletes 1 Limited Athletes management  United Kingdom  100%
Bell Pottinger Bahrain S.P.C. Public relations  Bahrain 100%
Bell Pottinger Communications Limited Public relations  United Kingdom  100%
Bell Pottinger Communications USA LLC Public relations  United States  100%
Bell Pottinger – Harvard GmbH Public relations  Germany  100%
Bell Pottinger Middle East FZ LLC Public relations  Dubai  100%
Bell Pottinger – MMK GmbH Public relations  Germany  100%
Bell Pottinger Public Affairs Limited Political public relations  United Kingdom  100%
Bell Pottinger Public Relations   
Limited Consumer public relations  United Kingdom  100%
Bell Pottinger – Traffic GmbH Public relations  Germany  100%
Bell Pottinger USA Inc Public relations  United States  100%
Bullnose Limited Public relations  United Kingdom  63%
Corporate Citizenship Limited + Corporate & social  
 responsibility consultancy  United Kingdom  100%
De Facto Communications Limited + Healthcare public relations  United Kingdom  100%
Essentially Athlete Management   
Limited (formerly Global Sports  
Management Limited) Athletes management  United Kingdom  100%
Essentially Athlete Management  Athletes management and 
(Rugby and Cricket) Limited sports consultancy  New Zealand  100%
Essentially France Limited + Athletes management and  
 sports consultancy  United Kingdom 85%
Essentially South Africa Limited Athletes management and  
 sports marketing  South Africa  100%
Essentially Sport Limited Sports marketing consultancy  Guernsey  100%
Essentially Sports Marketing  
Limited (formerly Frontiers  
Group UK Limited) Sports marketing consultancy  United Kingdom  100%
Facts International Limited + Research  United Kingdom  100%
Fast Track Events Limited Event management  United Kingdom  100%
Fast Track Hong Kong Limited Sports marketing consultancy  Hong Kong  100%
Fast Track Middle East FZ LLC Sports marketing consultancy  Abu Dhabi 100%
Fast Track Sailing Limited Sports marketing consultancy  United Kingdom  100%
Fast Track Sales Limited + Marketing consultancy and  
 event management  United Kingdom  100%
Fast Track Sports Media  
Consultancy Espana S.L. Sports marketing consultancy  Spain  52%
FIL Market Research Limited Research  United Kingdom  100%
Golden Goal Sports Ventures  
Gestão Esportiva Ltd Sports marketing consultancy  Brazil 60%
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
                            53 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  81
    Proportion 
    of ordinary 
   Country of  shares held and 
Company Nature of business  Incorporation voting rights
Subsidiaries (continued)
Good Relations Limited Public relations  United Kingdom  100%
Harvard Public Relations Limited + Public relations  United Kingdom  100%
Icon Display Limited Sports marketing consultancy  United Kingdom 100%
Icon Middle East LLC Sports marketing consultancy  Qatar 100%
Icon Prolab Events  
Organising LLC Sports marketing consultancy  Abu Dhabi 50%
Insight Marketing &  
Communications Limited + Public relations  United Kingdom  100%
OPEN Health  
Communications LLP* Healthcare public relations  United Kingdom 51%
OPEN LEC Limited Healthcare public relations  United Kingdom 51%
Opinion Leader Research Limited Market research  United Kingdom  100%
Pelham Bell Pottinger Asia Pte Ltd Public relations  Singapore  53%
Pelham Bell Pottinger Limited + Public relations  United Kingdom  60%
PMPLegacy Limited Sports marketing consultancy  United Kingdom 100%
Pure Media Group Limited Media buying  United Kingdom  100%
Resonate Communications Limited Consumer public relations  United Kingdom  100%
Reynolds Mackenzie Limited Healthcare public relations  United Kingdom 51%
Sportseen Limited Sports marketing and media sales  United Kingdom  100%
Stephens Francis Whitson Limited Direct marketing  United Kingdom  55%
Stuart Higgins Communications  
Limited + Sports marketing consultancy  United Kingdom  100%
Teamspirit Brand Limited Financial services advertising  
 and marketing  United Kingdom  100%
Teamspirit Business and  Financial services advertising 
Corporate Limited and marketing  United Kingdom  53%
Teamspirit Limited+ Financial services advertising  
 and marketing  United Kingdom  100%
The Sports Business Limited Sports marketing consultancy  United Kingdom  100%
Tree (London) Limited + Strategy and Research  United Kingdom 100%
TTA Public Relations Limited + Property marketing  United Kingdom  70%
VCCP Blue Limited Advertising and marketing  United Kingdom  100%
VCCP Digital Limited Digital advertising and marketing  United Kingdom  100%
VCCP GmbH Advertising and marketing  Germany  100%
VCCP Health Limited Advertising and marketing  United Kingdom  80%
VCCP Limited + Advertising and marketing  United Kingdom  100%
VCCP Search Limited Search engine marketing  United Kingdom  80%
VCCP s.r.o. Advertising and marketing  Czech Republic 100%
                            54 / 109  
82  Chime Communications plc
17. Subsidiaries and Associates (continued)
    Proportion 
    of ordinary 
   Country of  shares held and 
Company Nature of business  Incorporation voting rights
Associates
Meropa Communications (Pty) Limited + Public relations  South Africa  20%
Rare Corporate Design Limited Corporate design  United Kingdom  40%
The Agency of Someone Limited + Branding and design  United Kingdom  40%
Naked Eye Research Limited + Research  United Kingdom  26%
Celerity Professional Services Limited  
(formerly Essentially Professional  
Services Limited) Sports marketing  United Kingdom 25%
X & Y Communications Limited Public relations  United Kingdom 29%
Colour TV Limited Television production  United Kingdom 45%
The Brand Marketing Team Limited  
(formerly Branded Moments Of  
Truth Limited) Consumer marketing  United Kingdom  40%
+ Direct subsidiary/associate of Chime Communications plc
*OPEN Health Communications LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership in which Chime has invested 51% of the capital
The above list does not include all the subsidiary and associate companies of Chime Communications plc as  
the directors consider that to give full particulars of all Group undertakings would lead to a statement of  
excessive length.
18. Investments in associates
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Aggregate amounts relating to associates:
Total assets   3,916 2,329 
Total liabilities   (2,272) (1,608)
 Net assets   1,644 721 
 Revenue   8,509 3,760 
 Profit for the year   961 123 
Included in the above liabilities owed by the associates are loans from the Group of £60,475. (2010: £85,475). 
The unrecognised share of losses of associates is £5,000 for the year ending 31 December 2011 and £116,000 
cumulatively to 31 December 2011. 
A list of the significant investments in associates, including the name, country of incorporation, proportion of 
ownership interest is given in note 17.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
                            55 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  83
19. Other Investments
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
At 1 January   – –
Additions   1,014 –
At 31 December   1,014  –
Additions to other investments consist of a £250,000 investment in listed securities, and a £764,000 investment 
in unlisted securities. Further information can be found in note 35.
The investment in unlisted securities represents 26% of the share capital of the underlying entity. However,  
this investment has not been accounted for as an associate as the group does not exercise significant influence 
over the entity.
20. Due from deferred consideration
Amounts shown are due from the disposals of Smithfield Financial Limited and Essentially Professional Services 
Limited being the deferred consideration due. Management have assessed the credit risk associated with the 
balances and are satisfied that the balances are recoverable. £84,000 (2010: £100,000) was received in the  
year towards the deferred consideration. Management believe the carrying value is a reasonable approximation  
of the value of the asset.
21. Trade and other receivables
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Amounts receivable from provision of services   60,205  51,959 
Other debtors   2,400 2,021 
Prepayments and accrued income   5,641  12,224 
   68,246  66,204 
The ageing of the current trade receivables based on due dates is as follows:
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Not overdue   35,220  22,196 
Overdue:
Less than 30 days   13,587  18,620 
Between 30 and 60 days   5,775  5,725 
Between 60 and 90 days   2,381  3,21
Between 90 and 180 days   1,299  1,852 
Between 180 and 360 days   1,021  797 
More than 360 days   3,312  2,086 
   62,595  54,488 
Provision for irrecoverable trade receivables   (2,390) (2,529)
   60,205 51,959 
                            56 / 109  
84  Chime Communications plc
21. Trade and other receivables (continued)
The average credit period at year end 63 days (2010: 54 days). The Group’s trade receivables are stated after 
allowances for bad and doubtful debts. This allowance has been determined by considering specific doubtful 
balances and by reference to past default experience, an analysis of which is as follows. 
Movement in the provision for irrecoverable trade receivables:
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
At 1 January   2,529  2,827 
Amounts charged to operating expenses   590 693 
Acquisitions   235 24 
Disposal of subsidiary   (31) (62)
Trade receivables written off   (706) (961)
Amounts recovered during the year   (216) 7 
Foreign exchange   (11) 1 
At 31 December   2,390 2,529 
The provision for irrecoverable trade receivables relates to debts that are past due and impaired.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value. 
Trade and other receivables are predominantly non-interest bearing. Concentrations of credit risk with respect 
to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s customer base being large, unrelated and largely billed in 
advance. Due to this, the Directors believe there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the 
allowance for bad and doubtful debts.
22. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and equivalents include £58,000 (2010: £58,000) of cash held as security for cash backed loan notes. 
These are held at Royal Bank of Scotland and are redeemable on demand by the loan note holders.
23. Trade and other payables
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Trade creditors   21,804  22,520 
Other taxation and social security   8,554  5,397 
Accruals and deferred income   43,887  51,952 
Other creditors   3,722  3,425 
Loan notes   58  58 
   78,025  83,352 
The average credit period taken for trade purchases at year end is 40 days (2010: 41 days). The Directors 
consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value. The Group has financial  
risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit time frame.
The loan notes are guaranteed against the loan note deposits of the same amount included within cash and 
cash equivalents. Loan notes totalling £58,000 are outstanding as part of the initial and contingent consideration 
on the acquisition of HHCL Group Limited and VCCP Limited. The loan notes are guaranteed by Royal Bank of 
Scotland plc, unless otherwise stated, who hold a deposit of £58,000 against them.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
                            57 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  85
24. Obligations under finance leases
 Year ended  Year ended 
 31 December 2011 31 December 2010
  Present  Present 
 Minimum  value of  Minimum value of 
 lease  lease lease lease 
 payments payments payments payments 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Amounts payable under finance leases
Within one year 70 70 10  10 
Between one and five years 82 80 31  30 
 152 150 41  40 
Less future finance charges (2) – (1) – 
Present value of finance lease obligations 150 150 40  40 
The Group leases certain of its motor vehicles, fixtures, fittings and equipment under finance leases. 
The lease terms are up to 4 years. The finance leases bear interest at rates between 7% and 12%.
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying amount. The Group’s obligations  
under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ charges over the leased assets.
25. Bank overdrafts and loans
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Bank loans and overdrafts   7,769  3,300 
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year   –  – 
Between one and two years   7,769  – 
Between three and five years   –  3,300 
After five years   –  – 
Bank loans   7,769  3,300 
Amount due for settlement within 12 months   –  – 
Amount due for settlement after 12 months   7,769  3,300 
   7,769  3,300 
Cash deposits and bank loans are held at either variable rates of interest or at rates fixed for periods of no  
longer than three months.
The principal features of the Group’s borrowings with the Royal Bank of Scotland are as follows:
(i)  The Group has a rolling overdraft facility of £2 million. The overdraft facility is repayable on demand.
(ii)  The Group has a committed facility. The facility is £30 million. The term of the facility is until 30 June 2013.
(iii)  The bank loan bears interest at 1.3% above LIBOR; the overdraft bears interest at 2% above base rate.
(iv) A cross-guarantee exists between the majority of wholly-owned subsidiaries and the parent company.  
Royal Bank of Scotland plc holds debentures over the assets of the Company and the subsidiaries in  
respect of the bank loans.
(v) The weighted average interest rate applied in the year is 1.88% (2010: 1.89%).
During 2010 the committed facility of £400,000 with HSBC was repaid in full.
                            58 / 109  
86  Chime Communications plc
25. Bank overdrafts and loans (continued)
At 31 December 2011 the Group had drawn down £7.75 million of the borrowing facility and had available 
£22.25 million (2010: £26.7 million) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions 
precedent had been met. The Group had not utilised the overdraft facility at year end.
A further loan was acquired as part of an acquisition during the period. Of this, £19,000 was outstanding  
at the year end.
The fair values of bank overdrafts and loans are determined by considering the maturity dates.
26. Provisions
  Gross 
 Deferred/ obligations 
 Contingent  under put Vacant 
 consideration options property Total 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2011 11,864  2,000  858  14,722 
On acquisition of subsidiaries 17,204  –  –  17,204 
On acquisition of minority interest 940  (2,000) –  (1,060)
Adjustment to prior year acquisitions (7,550) –  –  (7,550)
Discounting charge to the income statement 826  –  –  826 
Charged to the income statement –  –  7  7 
Payments made (1,408) –  (563) (1,971)
Foreign exchange (216) –  – (216)
At 31 December 2011 21,660  –  302  21,962 
Included in current liabilities 3,602  –  23  3,625 
Included in non-current liabilities 18,058  –  279  18,337 
 21,660  –  302  21,962 
  Gross 
 Deferred/ obligations 
 Contingent  under put Vacant 
 consideration options property Total 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2010 17,192  2,000  675  19,867 
On acquisition of subsidiaries 29  –  –  29 
Adjustment to prior year acquisitions 4,515  –  –  4,515 
Discounting charge to the income statement 693  –  –  693 
Charged to the income statement –  –  409  409 
Payments made (10,565) –  (231) (10,796)
Foreign exchange –  –  5  5 
At 31 December 2010 11,864  2,000  858  14,722 
Included in current liabilities 1,407  2,000  566  3,973 
Included in non-current liabilities 10,457  –  292  10,749 
 11,864  2,000  858  14,722 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
                            59 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  87
Deferred/Contingent consideration
Contingent consideration relates to acquisitions made in current and previous years. The amounts payable are 
dependent on the future profits of the companies acquired. Further details of the deferred considerations arising 
from current year acquisitions are shown in note 30. Timing of payments of deferred consideration is set out in 
the relevant Sale and Purchase Agreements.
At 31 December 2011 approximately £14,325,000 (2010: £6,862,000) of the deferred consideration is expected 
to be settled in cash and £7,335,000 (2010: £5,002,000) in shares. The number of shares to be issued in all 
instances is based on the market value prior to the issue of the shares. Chime retains the right to satisfy a higher 
proportion in cash.
Gross Obligation under put option
The Gross obligation under put option arose as a result of a shareholders’ agreement with a non-controlling 
interest. The value of the option was estimated with regards to future profitability of the operation based on 
multiples of earnings. The put option has been exercised in 2011.
Vacant Property
The vacant property provision remaining at 31 December 2011 relates to two buildings, one near Heathrow, and 
one in Boston, USA. The provisions are an estimate of the difference between anticipated future income and 
costs relating to the properties.
The Heathrow building is approximately 12,000 sq ft and the Group has a lease which runs to September 2016. 
The current rental cost is £350,000 per annum with upward only rent reviews due in September 2015. The  
Group has sublet 7,000 sq ft, the remaining 5,000 sq ft is occupied by Group companies. The rental income 
achieved on the sub-let space is lower than the rent currently being paid under the lease.
The Boston, USA building is approximately 3,900 sq ft and the Group has a lease which runs to November  
2013. The current rental cost is $141,000 per annum with upward only rental reviews. The Group has sub-let  
the space, however the anticipated rental income achieved on the sub-let space is lower than the rent currently 
being paid under the lease.
27. Share capital
 2011 2010
  Nominal  Nominal  
  value  value 
 Number £’000 Number £’000
Called up, allotted and fully paid at 1 January
Ordinary shares at 25p each 73,525,730  18,381  67,336,968  16,834 
Issues relating to acquisitions 2,166,067  542  256,389  64 
Issues relating to deferred consideration 243,874  61  3,519,578  880 
Issues relating to placing of shares 4,711,540  1,178  2,250,000  562 
Issued to staff under share options 301,289  75  162,795  41 
Called up, allotted and fully paid at  
31 December 80,948,500  20,237  73,525,730  18,381 
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
The acquisition of Icon was partly financed by the placing of 6.2 million shares for £16,100,000 by way of a 
vendor placing of £3,850,000 and a cash placing of £12,250,000 fully underwritten by Numis Securities Limited, 
as announced on 6 April 2011. The vendor placing gave rise to additional share capital of £361,000 and share 
premium of £3,489,000. The cash placing gave rise to additional share capital of £1,178,000 and share premium 
of £11,072,000. The costs relating to the placings amounted to £471,000 and have been recorded in equity.
                            60 / 109  
88  Chime Communications plc
27. Share capital (continued)
243,874 shares with a fair value of £644,000 were issued on 12 April 2011 to satisfy deferred contingent 
consideration relating to the acquisition of Stuart Higgins Limited.
188,984 shares with a fair value of £518,000 were issued on 13 July 2011 in relation to the acquisition of 
Reynolds Mackenzie Limited.
264,830 shares with a fair value of £500,000 were issued on 10 October 2011 in relation to the acquisition of 
Gulliford Consulting Limited.
301,289 shares were issued to staff in relation to share schemes at prices between £1.125 and £1.975.
28. Share premium and other reserves
Share premium
Share premium arises from capital raised in an issue of shares, net of costs, to the extent that exceeds the 
nominal value of the shares.
Own shares
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Chime Communications plc purchased in the market  
and held by the Chime Communications Employee Trust to satisfy options under the Group’s share options 
schemes, deferred shares and Co-Investment plans (see note 32).
The Chime Communications Employee Trust (“The Trust”) was established in 1997 in Jersey. The trustee 
is Computershare Plan managers. The beneficiaries of the Trust are employees and former employees of 
the Company and the Group (including any Director) and the spouses and children or stepchildren of such 
employees or former employees. The purpose of the Trust is to facilitate and encourage the ownership of shares 
by employees. Distributions from the Trust are agreed by the trustee on recommendations from the Board of 
Directors of Chime Communications plc.
The Trust currently holds 1,774,266 (2010: 1,692,828) ordinary shares which have a nominal value of £444,000 
(2010: £423,000) and over which options were granted in April 2003, deferred shares in June 2009, December 
2009, June 2010, December 2010, May 2011 and June 2011,and Co Investment Plan shares in May 2010 and 
September 2011. 440,000 (2010: 1,654,000) shares were purchased in 2011 at a nominal value of £110,000, 
representing 0.54% (2010: 2.25%) of the called up share capital at 31 December. All costs of the Trust are borne 
by Chime Communications plc and expensed through the income statement.
The Trust has opted to waive all dividends with the exception of those shares allocated under the deferred share 
scheme (see note 33). The market value of the shares in the Trust at 31 December 2011 was £2,575,000  
(2010: £3,809,000).
Capital reduction reserve
The Capital reduction reserve relates to the capital reduction undertaken in October 2003. The reserve will not be 
treated as realised profits of the Company until any debt or claim outstanding as at 1 July 2013 has been repaid 
or remedied. If on 1 July 2013 there remain only liabilities outstanding in relation to property leases, the amount 
outstanding to the reserve may be released and the undertaking discharged or replaced by new share issues.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve relates to exchange differences arising on consolidation of overseas operations.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
                            61 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  89
29. Notes to the cash flow statement
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Operating profit   25,527  22,118 
Adjustments for:
Share based payment expense   800  1,170 
Translation differences   (64) 57 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment   2,627  2,135 
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets   1,864  1,352 
Impairment of goodwill   1,449  1,683 
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment   24  15 
Impairment of other intangible assets   – – 
Increase in provisions   (557) 183 
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital  31,670  28,713 
(Increase)/decrease in work in progress   30  (1,722)
(Increase)/decrease in receivables   3,149 (18,939)
 Increase/(decrease) in payables   (14,658) 15,601 
Cash generated from operations   20,191  23,653 
Income taxes paid   (6,847) (6,778)
Interest paid   (468) (427)
Net cash from operating activities   12,876  16,448 
30. Disposals
The Group previously held 100% of the share capital of Celerity Professional Services Limited (formerly  
Essentially Professional Services Limited). On 14 April 2011 the Group disposed of 75% of the share capital, 
leaving it with a 25% stake. As a result, the company ceased to be a subsidiary and is treated as an investment  
in associate from that date. There was no profit or loss recognised on disposal.
                            62 / 109  
90  Chime Communications plc
31. Contingent liabilities and commitments
In addition to the potential deferred and contingent 
consideration as disclosed in note 25 of £21,660,000 
at 31 December 2011 there was a maximum financial 
commitment of £33,072,000 (2010: £13,287,000) 
in respect of unprovided deferred contingent 
consideration payable in respect of acquisitions of 
subsidiary undertakings. This relates to the acquisition 
of Fast Track Sales (£18,794,000) and The Corporate 
Citizenship Company (£177,000) in 2007, and Icon 
(£4,980,000), Golden Goal (£4,025,000), OPEN LEC 
(£100,000), Reynolds Mackenzie (£4,397,000), and 
the non-controlling interest in Bell Pottinger Middle 
East (£599,000) in 2011.
Fast Track Sales 
The maximum contingent consideration payable 
is £20,294,000. However provision has only been 
made of £1,500,000 in the accounts to date (before 
discounting). The contingent consideration is based 
on a multiple of seven times earnings before interest 
and tax for the average of the three years 2010 to 
2012 inclusive. The contingent consideration would be 
satisfied by the issue of new shares until the amount 
of total consideration paid has been satisfied 50% in 
cash and 50% in new shares. Chime has the right to 
pay a higher percentage in cash if it so wishes.
The Corporate Citizenship Company 
The maximum contingent consideration payable 
is £2,299,000. However provision has only been 
made for £2,122,000 in the accounts to date (before 
discounting). The contingent consideration is based 
on a multiple of 4.75 times the average earnings of 
the two years 2010 to 2011 inclusive. The contingent 
consideration would be satisfied entirely in loan notes 
or cash.
ICON
The maximum contingent consideration payable 
is £14,000,000. However provision has only been 
made of £9,020,000 in the accounts to date (before 
discounting). The contingent consideration is based 
on a multiple of 4.75 times the average profits for the 
four years 2011 to 2014 inclusive. The contingent 
consideration would be satisfied 50% in cash and 
50% by the issue of new shares. Chime has the right 
to pay a higher percentage in cash if it so wishes.
Golden Goal
The maximum contingent consideration payable 
is BRL 18,615,000 (approximately £6,452,000). 
However provision has only been made of BRL 
7,004,000 (approximately £2,427,000) in the 
accounts to date (before discounting). The contingent 
consideration is based on a multiple of 5.63 times 
the average profits for the four years 2014 to 2016 
inclusive. The contingent consideration would be 
satisfied wholly in cash.
OPEN LEC
The maximum contingent consideration payable is 
£500,000. However provision has only been made of 
£400,000 in the accounts to date (before discounting). 
The contingent consideration is based on a multiple 
of 20% of certain profits of the business for the two 
years from 1 May 2011. The contingent consideration 
would be satisfied wholly in cash.
Reynolds Mackenzie
The maximum contingent consideration payable 
is £6,929,000. However provision has only been 
made of £2,532,000 in the accounts to date (before 
discounting). The contingent consideration is based 
on a multiple of 4.75 times the average profits for 
the six years 2012 to 2017 inclusive. The contingent 
consideration would be satisfied 75% in cash and 
25% by the issue of new shares. Chime has the right 
to pay a higher percentage in cash if it so wishes.
Bell Pottinger Middle East
The maximum contingent consideration payable 
is £1,400,000. However provision has only been 
made of £801,000 in the accounts to date (before 
discounting). The contingent consideration is based 
on a multiple of 5 times the average profits for the 
three years 2011 to 2013 inclusive. The contingent 
consideration would be satisfied wholly in cash.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
                            63 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  91
32. Operating lease arrangements
The Group as lessee
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under 
non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Within one year   6,957 6,684 
Between one and two years   6,663 17,403 
Between three and five years   16,014 7,803 
Greater than five years   14,601 –
   44,235 31,890 
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for its office properties. Leases are negotiated 
for an average term of 13 years and rentals are fixed for an average of 5 years at the prevailing market rate. 
The Group as lessor
At the balance sheet date, the Group had contracted with tenants for the following future minimum lease 
payments:
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Within one year   808 541 
Between one and two years   754 684 
Between three and five years   278 – 
   1,840 1,225 
Property rental income earned from subtenants during the year was £758,000 (2010: £443,000).
33. Share-based payments
The Group operates various share plans relating to shares in the parent company including an executive share 
option scheme, an employee savings related share option scheme (SAYE), a deferred share scheme, the  
VCCP Partners Scheme and a Co-Investment Plan
The Group recognised total expenses in 2011 of £801,000 (2010: £1,170,000) related to equity-settled share-
based payment transactions.
Share Options (executive options and SAYE)
The exercise price of the options granted under the executive share option scheme is equal to the market value 
of the Group’s shares at the time when the options are granted. The vesting period is generally three years but  
if they are special options it is five years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of 10 years from the  
date of grant, the options expire. Furthermore, options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before  
the options vest. 
The exercise price of the options granted under the employee savings related scheme is 80% of the market  
value at the date of offer. The vesting period is five years, if the options remain unexercised six months after  
this date, the options expire. Furthermore, the options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before  
the options vest.
                            64 / 109  
92  Chime Communications plc
33. Share-based payments (continued)
The following information relates to these share option schemes:
 2011 2010
  Weighted  Weighted 
  average   average 
  exercise   exercise 
 Options price (in £) Options price (in £)
Outstanding at beginning of year 1,847,456   1.236  2,299,673  1.911 
Granted during the year 90,708   2.150  240,993  1.550 
Lapsed during the year (239,396)  1.195  (410,081) 5.283 
Forfeited in the year –  –  –   – 
Exercised during the year (314,089)  1.678  (283,129) 1.124 
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,384,679   1.203  1,847,456  1.236 
Exercisable at the end of the year 428,562   764,260 
Weighted average remaining contractual life 1,024 days  1,297 days
Weighted average share price for options  
exercised at date of exercise £2.713  £2.138
New options were granted on 27 April 2011. The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted  
on that date is £45,000. In 2010 options were granted on 12 May, the aggregate of the estimated fair values of 
the options granted on that date is £73,000.
The fair value was calculated using the Black-Scholes model. In valuing the options, the following assumptions 
were used:
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Weighted average share price   £2.640 £1.938
Weighted average exercise price   £2.150 £1.550
Expected volatility   53.3% 51.0%
Expected life – savings related scheme   5.7 years 5.6 years
Risk-free rate   0.50% 0.50%
Dividend yield   2.29% 3.96%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the 
previous five years. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best 
estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Deferred Shares
Under the deferred share scheme, restricted shares are awarded to employees at no cost to the employee.  
The vesting period is fixed at the grant date by the Remuneration Committee. Currently there are grants over 
vesting periods of two, three and four years from the date of award. If the employee leaves the Group before 
vesting then the restricted shares are forfeited. The employee receives the dividend on the shares during the 
vesting period.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
                            65 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  93
   2011 2010 
   Deferred  Deferred 
   shares shares
Outstanding at beginning of year   1,100,694  1,297,888 
Granted during the year   75,638  140,480 
Forfeited in the year   (24,892) (100,465)
Released during the year   (341,840) (237,209)
Outstanding at the end of the year   809,600  1,100,694 
Weighted average remaining contractual life   315 days 480 days
Weighted average share price for deferred shares released at date of release  £2.471 £1.937
The restricted shares were awarded on 31 May 2011 and 28 June 2011. The share price at the date of each 
award was £2.985 and £2.825 respectively. The estimated fair value of the restricted shares awarded is 
£174,000 (2010: £211,000).
The fair value was calculated with reference to the share price pertaining to the shares awarded.
VCCP Partners Scheme
Under the VCCP Incentive Scheme, restricted shares are awarded to employees at no cost to the employee.  
The vesting period is fixed at the grant date by the Remuneration Committee. Currently there are grants over  
a vesting period of up to four years from the date of award. If the employee leaves the Group within the first two 
years of grant then the restricted shares are forfeited. 
Additional restricted shares were awarded on 28 June 2011. The share price at the date of the award was 
£2.825. The estimated fair value of the restricted shares awarded is £142,000 (2010: £128,000).
The fair value was calculated with reference to the share price pertaining to the award.
   2011 2010 
   Deferred  Deferred 
   shares shares
Outstanding at beginning of year   156,018 91,429 
Granted during the year   50,169 67,704 
Forfeited in the year   – (3,115)
Released during the year   (5,342) –
Outstanding at the end of the year   200,845 156,018
Weighted average remaining contractual life   512 days 885 days
Weighted average share price for deferred shares released at date of release  £2.808
Co-Investment Plan 2010
The matching shares awarded under the 2010 Co-Investment Plan are awarded at nil cost. The matching shares 
awarded are subject to performance criteria as set out in the report to the shareholders on Directors’ remuneration.
   2011 2010 
   Matching  Matching 
   shares shares
Outstanding at beginning of year   1,206,346  – 
Granted in the year   1,798,862  1,206,346 
Outstanding at the end of the year   3,005,208  1,206,346 
Matching shares were awarded on 1 September 2011 and vest over three years. The total fair value of the 
awards granted in 2011 is £726,000 (2010: £1,678,000).
The weighted average remaining contractual life is 800 days (2010: 904 days).
                            66 / 109  
94  Chime Communications plc
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
34. Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on 
consolidation and are not disclosed in this note (details of subsidiaries are included in note 17). Transactions 
between the Group and its associates are disclosed below.
Trading transactions
During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not 
members of the Group.
 2011
   Amounts Amounts 
   owed by owed to  
 Sale of  Purchase related related 
 services of services parties parties 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Associates
The Brand Marketing Team Limited 195 338 7 31
Rare Corporate Design Limited 149 358 115 86
Naked Eye Research Limited 53 13 14 –
Ledbury Research Limited 1 – – –
The Agency of Someone Limited – 391 – 81
X&Y Communications Limited – – – –
 2010
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Associates
Rare Corporate Design Limited 144  153  72  56 
Naked Eye Research Limited 20  6  1  11 
Ledbury Research Limited 42  –  –  26 
The Agency of Someone Limited 3  265  237  6 
X&Y Communications Limited –  –  35  – 
Sales of goods to related parties were made on an arm’s length basis.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received. 
No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
                            67 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  95
35. Financial Instruments
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, bank overdrafts, finance leases, cash and short-
term deposits. The main purpose of the financial instruments is to provide finance for the Group’s operations.  
The Group has various other financial assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which 
arise directly from operations. During the year the Group has financed its business through an overdraft facility 
and revolving committed facility arranged with the Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
The Group uses financial instruments to manage its bank borrowings: this is done by the use of foreign exchange 
rate swaps. The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial trading purposes 
but derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments. Derivative financial 
instruments are initially recognised at fair value at the contract date and continue to be stated at fair value at the 
balance sheet date with gains and losses on revaluation being recognised immediately to the income statement. 
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and foreign 
currency risk. The policy for managing these risks is reviewed and agreed with the Board.
Interest rate risk
The Group holds variable rate financial debt. Fixed interest rates are for periods of up to three months at a time. 
The interest rate margins paid by the Group on financial debt are disclosed in note 24. The Group assesses its 
borrowing requirements monitors and interest rates and assess the risks through sensitivity analysis.
If interest rates had been 1% higher/lower during the year the impact to profit before tax would have been an 
increase/decrease of £153,000 (2010: increase/decrease of £113,000). The impact on shareholders’ equity 
would have been a decrease/increase of £112,000 (2010: decrease/increase of £82,000).
 
Liquidity risk
The Group has an agreed committed facility of £30 million with the Royal Bank of Scotland. The facility matures 
in June 2013. There is also an uncommitted facility available of £2 million, which is reviewed on a rolling basis. 
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and banking facilities and by continuously 
monitoring forecast and actual cash flows. At 31 December 2011 the Group had net cash of £3,343,000, which 
is after deducting an amount drawn down against the facility of £7,750,000. The undrawn committed facility was 
therefore £22,250,000.
All other financial liabilities are considered current.
Externally imposed capital requirement
Under the terms of the Group’s banking covenants the Group must meet certain criteria based on interest and 
dividend cover and net debt to EBITDA. There have been no breaches of the banking covenants in the current  
or prior year.
Foreign currency risk
The Group has 24 overseas operations (branches and subsidiaries) which trade in Europe, the USA, the Far East, 
the Middle East, South America, Australasia and Africa. The sterling value of the net monetary assets held in the 
principal foreign currencies held by the group are as follows:
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Net monetary assets/liabilities
US Dollars   426 1,170 
Euros   1,404 1,422 
                            68 / 109  
96  Chime Communications plc
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
35. Financial Instruments (continued)
The Group does on occasion agree to bill clients in a currency other than the local currency; it also makes some 
purchases overseas where the supplier bills in their local currency. The Group does not hedge the translation 
exposure on the fees due. The Group converts any fees received in foreign currency on receipt on funds. In some 
instances where it is viewed appropriate, the proceeds from the client are kept in currency so as to minimise 
the foreign exchange exposure on the transaction if there are third party costs to be paid out of the funds in 
that currency. In this instance the Group uses short-term foreign exchange swaps to manage the Group’s 
borrowings. The fair value of the swaps entered into at 31 December 2011 is estimated as a liability of £9,000 
(2010: £8,000). There were two swaps open over the year end. This amount is based on the market values of 
equivalent instruments at the balance sheet date.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonably possible changes in the US Dollar and Euro 
exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, of the group’s equity:
 2011 2010
Strengthening/(weakening) of sterling +10% -10% +10% -10%
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
US Dollar 29 (32) 78  (86)
Euro (87) 96 (163) 180 
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns 
while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital 
structure of the Group consists of debt, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of  
the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement  
of Changes in Equity.
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents   11,320 10,278 
Bank loans   (7,769) (3,300) 
Finance leases   (150) (40)
Loan notes outstanding   (58) (58)
Net assets attributable to equity holders of the parent   (161,413) (136,153)
   (158,070) (129,272)
Market price risk
The Group’s exposure to market price risk comprises interest rate risk and currency rate risk. The Group  
regularly monitors these exposures which, setting aside the interrelationships between such rates and their  
wider impact on the economy, are not considered to have a significant impact on the Group. 
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
Fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument can be exchanged in an arm’s length transaction  
between informed and willing parties, other than a forced or liquidation sale.
                            69 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  97
The following table provides a comparison of the book values and the fair value of the Group’s financial liabilities 
and assets as at 31 December:
 2011 2010
 Book Value Fair Value Book Value Fair Value 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Financial liabilities
Bank loans (7,769) (7,769) (3,300)  (3,300) 
Obligations under finance leases (150) (150) (40) (40)
Trade and other payables (78,025) (78,025) (83,352) (83,352)
Deferred consideration – cash or shares (21,660) (21,660) (11,864) (11,864)
Gross obligations under put options – – (2,000) (2,000)
 (107,604) (107,604) (100,556) (100,556)
Financial assets
Other Investments 1,014  1,014  – –
Cash and bank balances 11,320  11,320  10,278  10,278 
Trade and other receivables 68,246  68,246  66,205  66,205 
 80,580  80,580  76,483  76,483 
Other Investments: The Other Investments represent equity securities acquired by the Group and are classified  
as Available for Sale. The fair values of the listed securities (£250,000) are derived from quoted market prices  
and thus are considered to be a Level 1 fair value measurement. As it is not possible to estimate the fair values  
of the unlisted securities (£764,000) these are held at cost.
Gross obligations under put options: The put options to which these liabilities relate have been exercised  
during 2011. 
There were no transfers between fair value levels during 2011 or 2010.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities as at 31 December 2011 and 
2010 based on contractual undiscounted payments.
 Within  1-2  2-3  3-4 4-5  5+  
 1 year years years  years years years Total 
Maturity profile £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
2011
Bank loans –  (7,769) –  –  –  –  (7,769)
Obligations under finance leases (70) (61) (19)  –  –  –  (150) 
Trade and other payables (78,025) –  –  –  –  –  (78,025)
Deferred consideration (3,602) (9,535) (2,322) (2,518) (1,383) (2,300) (21,660)
Gross obligations under put options –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
                            70 / 109  
98  Chime Communications plc
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
35. Financial Instruments (continued)
 Within  1-2  2-3  3-4 4-5  5+  
 1 year years years  years years years Total 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
2010
Bank loans –  –  (3,300) –  –  –  (3,300)
Obligations under finance leases (10) (30) –  –  –  –  (40)
Trade and other payables (83,352) –  –  –  –  –  (83,352)
Deferred consideration (1,407) (1,814) (8,643) –  –  –  (11,864)
Gross obligations under put options –  (2,000) –  –  –  –  (2,000)
Credit risk
The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk to be as follows:
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Trade receivables   60,205  51,960 
Deferred consideration receivable   508  404 
The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties. Customers who wish to trade on credit terms 
are generally subject to credit verification procedures. In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an 
ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts has not been significant.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s customer base 
being large and unrelated.
With respect to credit risk arising from other financial assets of the Group, which comprises cash and cash 
equivalents, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum amount 
of exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
36. Subsequent Events
Subsequent to the year end, the Group has made a number of acquisitions.
Succinct Communications
On 1 February 2012, the Group entered into an agreement to acquire 100% of the share capital of Succinct 
Communications Limited, a company providing medical communications for prescription medicines.
The initial consideration comprised £2.0 million in cash and the issue of 264,338 new ordinary shares in the 
Group, and £0.6 million in cash representing working capital of Succinct Communications Limited at acquisition 
that is surplus to requirements after the company joins the Group. Deferred consideration is payable based  
upon the results of the business to 2018. Total consideration is capped at £10.0 million, excluding the surplus 
working capital on acquisition.
Subsequent to acquisition, the results of Succinct Communications Limited will be included within the Group’s 
Public Relations division, as part of the OPEN Health offering.
Rough Hill
On 7 March 2012, the Group entered into an agreement to acquire 60% of the share capital of Rough Hill 
Limited, a company providing youth marketing services.
The initial consideration comprised £0.5 million in cash and the issue of 83,618 new ordinary shares in the  
Group. Deferred consideration is payable based upon the results of the business to 2012. Total consideration  
is capped at £0.7 million.
Subsequent to acquisition, the results of Rough Hill Limited will be included within the Group’s Advertising and 
Marketing Services division.
                            71 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  99
McKenzie Clark
On 7 March 2012, the Group entered into an agreement to acquire 100% of the share capital of McKenzie Clark 
Limited, a company providing graphics and branding services.
The initial consideration comprised £0.6 million in cash. Deferred consideration is payable based upon the results 
of the business to 2015. Total consideration is capped at £4.0 million.
Subsequent to acquisition, the results of McKenzie Clark Limited will be included within the Group’s Sports 
Marketing division.
iLUKA
On 7 March 2012, the Group entered into a conditional agreement to acquire 100% of the share capital of iLUKA 
Limited, a company providing sports marketing and events management services.
The initial consideration comprised £4.0 million in cash and the issue of 555,361 new ordinary shares in the 
Group. Deferred consideration is payable on the results of the business to 2017. Total consideration is capped at 
£25.0 million.
Subsequent to acquisition, the results of iLUKA Limited will be included within the Group’s Sports Marketing 
division.
StratAgile
On 7 March 2012, the Group acquired 40% of the share capital of StratAgile Pte Limited, a data analytics 
company based in Singapore.
The initial consideration comprised £0.2m in cash. Deferred consideration is payable dependent on the future 
trading performance of StratAgile to 2014. Total consideration is capped at £0.4m.
                            72 / 109  
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of  
Chime Communications plc 
We have audited the parent company financial 
statements of Chime Communications plc for the 
year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise 
the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 
1 to 13. The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation is applicable law 
and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members, 
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 
of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been 
undertaken so that we might state to the company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than 
the company and the company’s members as a body, 
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions 
we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors  
and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
Responsibilities Statement, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the parent company 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit 
and express an opinion on the parent company 
financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with 
the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards  
for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the 
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements 
sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This 
includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the parent company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness 
of significant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation of the financial 
statements. In addition, we read all the financial 
and non-financial information in the annual report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements. If we become aware of any 
apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent company financial 
statements:
•	 give	a	true	and	fair	view	of	the	state	of	the	
company’s affairs as at 31 December 2011;
•	 have	been	properly	prepared	in	accordance	with	
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice; and
•	 have	been	prepared	in	accordance	with	the	
requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 the	part	of	the	Directors’	Remuneration	Report	
to be audited has been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
•	 the	information	given	in	the	Directors’	Report	for	
the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the parent company 
financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report  
by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following 
matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to 
report to you if, in our opinion:
•	 adequate	accounting	records	have	not	been	kept,	
or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•	 the	parent	company	financial	statements	and	the	
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns; or
•	 certain	disclosures	of	directors’	remuneration	
specified by law are not made; or
•	 we	have	not	received	all	the	information	and	
explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the group financial 
statements of Chime Communications plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2011.
Sarah Shillingford ACA (Senior statutory 
auditor) for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
7 March 2012
100  Chime Communications plc
                            76 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  101
   2011 2010 
  Notes £’000 £’000
Fixed Assets
Investment in subsidiaries and associates  3 183,493 158,833 
Current assets
Cash   –  3,099 
Debtors  5 23,457  5,393 
Short term investments  6 58  58 
   23,515  8,550 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year  7 (5,974) (1,500)
  
Net current assets   17,541  7,050 
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year  8 (20,592) (13,756)
Net Assets   180,442 152,127 
Equity
Share capital  9 20,237  18,381 
Share premium account  9 79,987  63,366 
Share-based payment reserve  9 7,288  6,529 
Merger reserve  9 3,780  3,780 
Capital reduction reserve  9 32,385  32,385 
ESOP reserve  9 (4,191) (4,003)
Retained earnings  9 40,956  31,689 
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent   180,442 152,127 
The financial statements were approved by the board of Directors and authorised for issue on 7 March 2012. 
They were signed on its behalf by:
Mark Smith
Director
Company Balance Sheet
Year ended 31 December 2011 Company number: 1983857
                            77 / 109  
102  Chime Communications plc
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Year ended 31 December 2011
1. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The separate financial statements of the Company 
are drawn up in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006 and United Kingdom generally accepted 
accounting principles (“UK GAAP”). The preparation 
of financial statements in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles requires management 
to make estimates and assumptions that affect 
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and 
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the 
date of the financial statements and the reported 
amounts of revenue and expenses during the 
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those 
estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions 
are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to 
accounting estimates are recognised in the period  
in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects 
only that period or in the period of the revision and 
future periods if the revision affects both current and 
future periods.
The particular accounting policies adopted are 
described below. They have all been applied 
consistently throughout the year and the prior year. 
The financial statements are prepared on a going 
concern basis as explained in the Directors’ Report.
Cash flow
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption 
contained in FRS 1 “Cash flow statements” and has 
not produced a cash flow statement.
Financial instruments
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption 
contained in FRS 29 “Financial Instruments: 
Disclosures” and has not produced any disclosures 
required by that standard, as full disclosures are 
available in Chime Communications plc Annual Report 
for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Related parties
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption 
contained in FRS 8 “Related party disclosures” and 
has not reported transactions with fellow Group 
undertakings.
Accounting convention
The financial statements are prepared under the 
historical cost convention.
Investments
In the Company’s accounts, investments in subsidiary 
and associate undertakings are stated at cost less 
provision for any impairment in value.
Deferred consideration
When earnouts are to be settled in cash or shares 
with a fixed monetary value, the fair value of the 
consideration is obtained by discounting to present 
value the amounts expected to be payable in the 
future. The resulting interest charge is included within 
finance costs of deferred consideration.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities, in respect of 
financial instruments, are recognised on the balance 
sheet when the Company becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued 
by the Company are classified according to the 
substance of the contractual arrangements entered 
into and the definitions of a financial liability and an 
equity instrument. An equity instrument is any contract 
that evidences a residual interest in the assets of 
the Company after deducting all of its liabilities and 
includes no obligation to deliver cash or other financial 
assets. Equity instruments issued by the Company  
are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct 
issue costs.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are 
recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct 
issues costs. Finance charges, including premiums 
payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue 
costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in profit 
or loss using the effective interest method and are 
added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the 
extent that that are not settled in the period in which 
they arise.
Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of equity settled share 
based compensation plans for the employees of 
subsidiary undertakings, using the Company’s equity 
instruments. The fair value of the compensation 
given in respect of these share-based compensation 
plans is recognised as a capital contribution to the 
Company’s subsidiary undertakings, over the vesting 
period. The capital contribution is reduced by any 
payments received from subsidiary undertakings in 
respect of these share-based payments. 
Dividends paid or received
Dividends paid and received are included in the 
financial statements in the period in which the related 
dividends are actually paid or received or, in respect 
of the Company’s final dividend for the year, approved 
by shareholders.
                            89 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  103
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, which include these 
of the Company, together with the factors likely 
to affect its future development, performance and 
position are set out in The Chairman’s Statement on 
pages 2 to 7. The financial position of the Group, its 
cash flows and borrowing facilities are described in 
the Finance Director’s Report on pages 16 to 17. 
In addition, note 35 of the consolidated financial 
statements include the Group’s objectives, policies 
and processes for managing its capital; its financial 
risk management objectives and details of its financial 
instruments; and its exposure to credit risk and 
liquidity risk.
As highlighted in note 35 to the consolidated financial 
statements, the Group meets its day-to-day working 
capital requirements through an uncommitted 
overdraft facility and a committed facility which 
matures in June 2013. These facilities are subject 
to banking covenants as disclosed in note 35 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
In preparing forecasts the directors have taken into 
account the following key factors:
•	 The	rate	of	growth	of	the	UK	and	global	economy	
on the Group’s business during the economic 
recovery;
•	 Key	client	account	renewals;
•	 Planned	acquisitions	and	disposals;
•	 Anticipated	payments	under	deferred	and	
contingent consideration;
•	 The	level	of	committed	and	variable	costs;	and
•	 Current	new	business	targets	compared	to	levels	
achieved in previous years.
The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking 
account of reasonably possible changes in trading 
performance, show that the Group should be able 
to operate within the level of its current facility and 
banking covenants. 
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial 
statements.
More detail on the Group’s cash position and facilities 
at 31 December 2011, as well as maturities of the 
financial liabilities, can be found in note 35 to the 
consolidated financial statements. The principal risks 
and uncertainties faced by the Group are included in 
the Directors Report. Details of potential contingent 
liabilities and potential cash outflows in relation 
to these liabilities can be found in note 31 to the 
consolidated financial statements. 
Profit of parent company
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 
2006, the income statement of the parent company is 
not presented as part of these accounts. The parent 
company’s profit for the financial year amounted to 
£15,017,000 (2010: £14,491,000).
2. Equity dividends
The equity dividends paid by the Company are 
disclosed in note 11 of the consolidated financial 
statements.
                            90 / 109  
104  Chime Communications plc
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
3. Investments
 Investments in 
 and loans to Equity 
 associated interest in 
 undertakings subsidiaries Other  Total 
 £’000 £’000 investments £’000
Cost at 1 January 2010 268  149,671  – 149,939 
Additions –  4,138  – 4,138 
Disposals –  (60) – (60)
Adjustment to prior year acquisitions –  4,589  – 4,589 
Loans/(repayments) to/from associated undertakings (42) –  – (42)
Share based payment –  1,162  – 1,162 
Reduction in carrying value –  (893) – (893)
At 31 December 2010 226  158,607  – 158,833 
Additions –  32,932  250 33,182 
Adjustment to prior year acquisitions –  (7,549) – (7,549)
Loans/(repayments) to/from  
associated undertakings (10)  –  – (10) 
Transfer to other group company – (89) – (89)
Share based payment –  759  – 759 
Reduction in carrying value –  (1,633) – (1,633)
At 31 December 2011 216  183,027   250 183,493 
The reduction in carrying value relates to the impairment of an investment in a subsidiary.
4. Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
The Company’s principal trading subsidiaries and associated undertakings, which are all incorporated in Great 
Britain (except where noted) are listed in note 17 of the consolidated financial statements.
5. Debtors
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Amounts owed by group undertakings   23,394  5,044 
Other debtors   63 349 
   23,457  5,393 
Amounts owed by group undertakings are unsecured, repayable on demand and interest-free, with exception of 
a funding loan to an overseas subsidiary amounting to £3,692,000 at 31 December 2011 which attracts interest 
at a rate of 7.5%.
6. Short-term investments
The loan note cash deposit of £58,000 (2010: £58,000) relates to a cash deposit held on three months notice at 
Royal Bank of Scotland plc. The deposit guarantees the loan note creditors of £58,000 (2010: 58,000). Interest 
accruing on the deposit is payable to the holders of the loan notes less any costs.
                            91 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  105
7. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Bank overdraft   2,053  – 
Deferred/contingent consideration   2,952  1,265 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings   – –
Loan notes   58  58 
Current taxation   103  93 
Other taxation and social security   4  4 
Other creditors   500  2 
Accruals and deferred income   304  78 
   5,974  1,500 
8. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
   2011 2010 
   £’000 £’000
Bank borrowings   7,750  3,300 
Deferred/contingent consideration   12,842  10,456 
   20,592  13,756 
No interest arises in respect of the deferred consideration, which is payable in cash (sterling) and shares.  
Included within deferred/contingent consideration is an amount of £675,000 that is due after more than 5 years.
Interest on the company’s bank borrowings is borne by a subsidiary undertaking.
                            92 / 109  
106  Chime Communications plc
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2011
9. Statements of movements on share capital, share premium and reserves
   Share- 
 Share Share based  Capital 
 capital premium payment Merger reduction ESOP Retained 
  account reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at  
1 January 2010 16,834  52,691  5,367  3,780  32,385  (5,406) 25,492 
Issue of shares 1,547  10,675  –  –  –  –  –
Retained profit  
for the year –  –  –  –  –  –  14,491 
Dividends payable –  –  –  –  –  –  (3,844)
Capital contribution 
given relating to share  
based payments –  –  1,162  –  –  –  –
Disposal on exercise  
of options –  –  –  –  –  4,541  (4,450)
Purchase of own equity  
shares held in treasury –  –  –  –  –  (3,138)
Balance at  
31 December 2010 18,381  63,366  6,529  3,780  32,385  (4,003) 31,689 
Issue of shares 1,856  16,621  –  –  –  –  –
Retained profit  
for the year –  –  –  –  –  –  15,017 
Dividends payable –  –  –  –  –  –  (5,011)
Capital contribution  
given relating to share  
based payments –  –  759  –  –  –  – 
Disposal on exercise  
of options –  –  –  –  –  748  (739)
Purchase of own equity  
shares held in treasury –  –  –  –  –  (936)  – 
Balance at  
31 December 2011 20,237  79,987  7,288  3,780  32,385  (4,191) 40,956 
Details of share capital allotted during the year are disclosed in note 27 of the consolidated financial statements.
Costs of £502,000 relating to the issue of shares have been included in share premium.
The ESOP reserve represents the cost of shares in Chime Communications plc purchased in the market and 
held by The Chime Communications Employee Trust to satisfy options under the Group’s share option schemes, 
deferred shares and the Co-Investment Plan. Further details are disclosed in note 33 of the Group accounts.
                            93 / 109  
Annual Report and Accounts 2011  107
10. Contingent liabilities and commitments
Contingent liabilities are consistent with those 
described in note 31 of the consolidated financial 
statements.
11. Share-based payments
The Company currently uses a number of equity 
settled share plans to grant options and shares 
to the Directors and employees of its subsidiary 
undertakings. As at 31 December 2011, the Company 
had 1,384,679 ordinary share options outstanding 
(2010: 1,847,456).
The Company has made a capital contribution to its 
subsidiary undertakings in relation to share-based 
payments. At 31 December 2011, the cumulative 
capital contribution net of payments received 
from subsidiary undertakings was £7,288,000 
(2010: £6,529,000). During the year ended 
31 December 2011, the capital contribution arising 
from share-based payments was £759,000 (2010: 
£1,162,000). The Company does not incur an 
income statement charge in relation to share-based 
payments.
Full details of share-based payments, share option 
schemes and share plans are disclosed in note 33 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements of Chime 
Communications plc.
12. Related Parties
During the year, the Company received a dividend 
from Naked Eye Research Limited (£12,000) which is 
an associate. The Company also received dividends 
from Pelham Bell Pottinger Limited (£985,000) which 
is a subsidiary which is not wholly owned.
13. Subsequent events
Subsequent to the year end, the Company has made 
a number of acquisitions.
Rough Hill
On 7 March 2012, the Group entered into an 
agreement to acquire 60% of the share capital of 
Rough Hill Limited, a company providing youth 
marketing services.
The initial consideration comprised £0.5 million in 
cash and the issue of 83,618 new ordinary shares in 
the Group. Deferred consideration is payable based 
upon the results of the business to 2012. Total 
consideration is capped at £0.7 million.
Subsequent to acquisition, the results of Rough Hill 
Limited will be included within the Group’s Advertising 
and Marketing Services division.
McKenzie Clark
On 7 March 2012, the Group entered into an 
agreement to acquire 100% of the share capital 
of McKenzie Clark Limited, a company providing 
graphics and branding services.
The initial consideration comprised £0.6 million 
in cash. Deferred consideration is payable based 
upon the results of the business to 2015. Total 
consideration is capped at £4.0 million.
Subsequent to acquisition, the results of McKenzie 
Clark Limited will be included within the Group’s 
Sports Marketing division.
iLUKA
On 7 March 2012, the Group entered into a 
conditional agreement to acquire 100% of the share 
capital of iLUKA Limited, a company providing sports 
marketing and events management services.
The initial consideration comprised £4.0 million in 
cash and the issue of 555,361 new ordinary shares in 
the Group. Deferred consideration is payable on the 
results of the business to 2017. Total consideration is 
capped at £25.0 million.
Subsequent to acquisition, the results of iLUKA 
Limited will be included within the Group’s Sports 
Marketing division.
StratAgile
On 7 March 2012, the Group acquired 40% of the 
share capital of StratAgile Pte Limited, a data analytics 
company based in Singapore.
The initial consideration comprised £0.2 million in 
cash. Deferred consideration is payable dependent on 
the future trading performance of StratAgile to 2014. 
Total consideration is capped at £0.4 million.
                            94 / 109  
108  Chime Communications plc 108  Chime Communications plc
Information for Shareholders
Financial Calendar
Wednesday 9 May 2012
Wednesday 23 May 2012
Friday 25 May 2012
Friday 15 June 2012
Wednesday 29 August 2012
Wednesday 26 September 2012
Friday 28 September 2012
Friday 26 October 2012
Annual General Meeting 12 noon,
14 Curzon Street, London W1J 5HN
Ex-Dividend date 2011 Final Dividend
Record date 2011 Final Dividend
Payment date 2011 Final Dividend
Announcement of 2012 Interim Results
Ex-Dividend date 2012 Interim Dividend
Record date 2012 Interim Dividend
Payment date 2012 Interim Dividend
Share Price
Share price at 31 December 2011 171.0p
High during the year (31 May 2011) 298.5p
Low during the year (16 December 2011) 163.0p
Balance Analysis  
Summary
 Number of  Number of Balance as at 
 holdings  holdings  28 February  
Range  individuals Corporate bodies 2012 %
1 – 1,000 308 91 155,850 0.19
1,001 – 10,000 212 131 1,156,486 1.42
10,001 – 100,000 50 81 4,270,120 5.26
100,001 – 1,000,000 20 63 24,728,238 30.45
1,000,001 – 10,000,000 1 16 37,487,388 46.16
10,000,001 – to highest 0 1 13,414,756 16.52
Total 591 383 81,212,838 100.00
                          101 / 109 Designed and produced by Rare Corporate Design
www.rarecorporate.co.uk 
Professional Advisers Financial Advisers
EPL Advisory LLP
18 Hyde Gardens
Eastbourne
East Sussex
BN21 4PT
Stockbrokers
Numis Securities Limited
10 Paternoster Square
London
EC4M 7LT
Auditors
Deloitte LLP
2 New Street Square
London
EC4A 3BZ
Solicitors
Slaughter & May
One Bunhill Row
London EC1Y 8YY
Bankers
Royal Bank of Scotland plc
280 Bishopsgate
London EC2M 4RB
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services plc
Registrar’s Department
PO Box 82
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol
BS13 8AE
Registered Office
14 Curzon Street
London W1J 5HN
Registered in England No: 1983857
Contact Details Chime Communications plc
14 Curzon Street
London W1J 5HN
www.chime.plc.uk
Lord Bell – Chairman 
lord.bell@chime.plc.uk
Christopher Satterthwaite – 
Group Chief Executive 
csatterthwaite@chime.plc.uk
Mark Smith – Chief Operating Officer 
and Finance Director 
msmith@chime.plc.uk
Robert Davison – Company Secretary 
rdavison@chime.plc.uk Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chime Communications plc
 
14 Curzon Street, London W1J 5HN
Tel: 020 7861 8515
E-mail: enquiries@chime.plc.uk
www.chime.plc.uk
