 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Building 
Mo Mentu M
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pages 3 to 29 represent our strategic report. This has been prepared solely 
to provide additional information to shareholders to assess the Company’s 
strategies and the potential for those strategies to succeed.
The strategic report contains certain forward-looking statements. 
These statements are made by the Directors in good faith based on 
the information available to them up to the time of their approval of this 
report and such statements should be treated with caution due to the 
inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk factors, 
underlying any such forward-looking information.
Contents
  Overview and Highlights
 01 Our Strategy, Values and Highlights
 03 Our Progress Against our Strategic Priorities
 04 Chairman’s Statement
  Strategy & Outlook
 06 Chief Executive’s Statement
 08 By Division: Review and Outlook
 14 How we Measure our Progress
 15 Risks and Uncertainties
  Performance
 21 A Fair Review of the Business
 26 Our Performance as a Responsible and Sustainable Business
 30 Directors’ Report
  Governance
 33 Board of Directors
 35 Executive Management Team
 38 Directors’ Statement on Corporate Governance
 38 Chairman’s Introduction
 38 Directors and the Board
 44 Audit Committee Report
 49 Remuneration Committee Report
 50 Nominations Committee Report
 51 General information
 53 Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
  Directors’ Remuneration Report
 54 Introduction to the Directors’ Remuneration Report
 54 Remuneration Committee Chairman’s Statement
 55 The Remuneration Committee
 56 Remuneration Policy
 66 Directors’ Remuneration in 2013
 71 Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2014
  Financial Statements
 76 Independent Auditor’s Report
 80 Consolidated Income Statement
 81 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
 82 Consolidated Balance Sheet
 84 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
 86 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
 87 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
 136 Company Balance Sheet
 137 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
 147 Information for Shareholders Chime is an international communications and sports marketing group, including CSM, in sport 
and entertainment, the VCCP Partnership in advertising, the Good Relations Group in public 
relations, Open Health in healthcare communications, Teamspirit a specialist in financial and 
professional services, and CIE, our insight and engagement agency. We are listed on the London 
Stock Exchange.
Chime is made up of five divisions, 56 companies and over 1800 people. We have offices in the UK, France, Germany, Spain, 
Czech Republic, Slovakia, Russia, Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Qatar , South Africa, China, Hong Kong, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, 
Australia, New Zealand, USA, Canada and Brazil. Further information on our business model can be found on page 21.
Chime has identified four market growth drivers in sport and entertainment, healthcare communications, digital, and the 
world’s growing economies.
In recognising these areas and to enhance shareholder returns, Chime has a strategy of developing its existing businesses, 
supporting organic growth, investing in start-ups, and expanding its operations overseas, particularly in economies which 
forecast strong growth. This overseas expansion will be delivered through taking existing businesses to those markets, 
opening new offices and/or making acquisitions in the countries identified.
We measure our progress in delivering shareholder returns utilising six Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).
Our Strategy, Values and Highlights
5 MARKET
LEADING
BRANDS
4 MARKET 
GROWTH 
DRIVERS
Sport & 
Entertainment
Healthcare
Communications
Digital
Growth 
economies
4 CHIME 
GROWTH 
DRIVERS
Organic
growth
Start-ups /
Chime Ventures
New offices Acquisitions
6 KPIs
Income from
shared clients
Average fee 
per client
Margin
Overseas
income
EPS
Working 
capital
DELIVERING SHAREHOLDER RETURNS
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   01
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Operating income
(2012: £156.8m)
£ 169.5m
Earnings per share
(2012: 21.27p) 
19.47p
Profit before tax
(2012: £25.4m) 
£25m
Operating profit margin
(2012: 16.4%) 
15.2%
Operating profit
(2012: £25.8m) 
£25.8m
Total dividend
(2012: 7.24p) 
7 .34p
OUR VALUES
SOCIAL
Creating strong  
teams that know  
how to work  
together
CURIOUS
Curiosity leads 
to continuous 
questioning and 
learning
OPEN
Open minds lead  
to better ideas  
and better 
relationships
RESPONSIBLE
Aiming to be a force 
for good in the way we 
do business
ENTREPRENEURIAL
Everyone behaving 
as if it was their own 
business
OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS 
•	 Good performance compared to record 2012 with 8% increase in operating income
•	 Growing market share 
•	 Further developed our Sport and Entertainment division
•	 Strong operating income and operating profit growth in Advertising and 
Marketing Services, Public Relations, Healthcare Communications and Insight 
and Engagement
•	 Extended international operations through the acquisitions of People Marketing 
in China and JMI in the USA
•	 Further progress in Brazilian businesses in advance of the 2014 FIFA World Cup
•	 Expected operating income on contracts won for the 2014 FIFA World Cup and 
the 2014 Commonwealth Games now exceeds the operating income achieved for 
the 2012 Olympics
•	 Improved the senior management of both Public Relations and Sport and 
Entertainment divisions
•	 Strengthened our Board with appointment of three new Non-Executive Directors
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 
•	 Profit before tax £25 million (2012: £25.4 million)
•	 Operating profit margin 15.2% (2012: 16.4%)
•	 Total dividend for the year increased by 1% to 7.34p (2012: 7.24p)
•	 £95 million facility agreed with RBS and HSBC until September 2016
Our Strategy, Values and Highlights
continued
02   Chime Communications plc Our Key Performance Indicators
Income from shared clients
10   60%
11   67%
12   68%
13   68%
Average fee per client
10   £90k
11   £85k
12   £91k
13   £99k
Working capital (net)
10   -£1.8m
11   -£8.5m
12   -£5.6m
13   -£13.0m
Note: All above are headline numbers.
Operating profit margin
10   10.5%
11   13.6%
12   16.4%
13   15.2%
Income from overseas
10   12%
11   15%
12   12%
13   19%
Earnings per share
11   12.8p
12   21.3p
13   19.5p
Our Progress Against our Strategic Priorities
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   03
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements This is my second annual report as Chairman 
of Chime. It comes after a year in which we 
made significant strides towards fulfilling 
our potential as an international, integrated 
marketing services group, and in which I 
personally have had the opportunity to get to 
know our business in much greater detail.
Over the last 15 months, I have been able to visit every one 
of the Chime companies worldwide. It has been a great 
experience and as I’ve toured our operations I have been 
hugely impressed by the skills, creativity and professionalism 
that I have encountered. This Group has extraordinarily 
talented people, a wonderful client base and excellent 
international reach. It provides a great foundation, and the 
developments that have taken place during the year leave 
us poised for what we believe is a very exciting period in our 
growth.
Revitalising the Group Board
2013 saw nothing short of a revitalisation of Chime’s 
Group Board, with the introduction of three Non-Executive 
Directors embedding the digital, brand and entrepreneurial 
experience that we believe is essential to helping this 
business achieve what it is capable of.
As Vice President of eBay Marketplaces for the UK & 
Greater Europe, Clare Gilmartin led its transformation from 
second-hand auction hub to leading retail site; Vin Murria, 
named Woman of the Year in the 2012 Cisco Everywoman 
Technology Awards, is CEO of Advanced Software Group 
plc, the AIM-listed business that she founded in 2008; Martin 
Glenn is a leading figure in the UK’s FMCG landscape, CEO 
of United Biscuits and previously CEO of Iglo Frozen Food 
and Company President for Pepsico in UK and Ireland. I 
would like to take this opportunity to welcome each of them 
to Chime and look forward to working with them closely as 
we move this Group forward.
Chairman’s Statement
04   Chime Communications plc Richard Alston and Catherine Biner Bradley both left the 
Board during 2013. Paul Richardson, a Non-Executive 
Director since 1997, also resigned from the Board in 
March 2014. We are grateful for the contributions that all 
three individuals made during their time as Directors.
Performance in 2013
Chime’s businesses performed well during 2013. The 
effects of the global sports cycle were felt in our sport 
marketing business, in the year following the 2012 Olympic 
and Paralympic Games in London and before the 2014 
Winter Olympics, Commonwealth Games and FIFA World 
Cup in Brazil. However , there was strong growth across 
our marketing communications, healthcare and research 
divisions. Highlights from the year included:
•	 an excellent performance from the Chime Insight & 
Engagement Group, with strong growth in revenues and 
profitability that amounted to the most successful year in 
the division’s history’
•	 a strong new business performance from the Good 
Relations Group, which supported the continued 
development of our ‘Power of Good’ proposition; and
•	 twin ‘Agency of the Year’ performances from VCCP and 
Teamspirit that powered an increase in profitability of more 
than 50% for the VCCP Partnership.
Acquisition of JMI
Our acquisition of the US-based, global motorsports agency 
JMI represented another highly significant development 
for Chime. We have gained a complementary presence in 
sports with a huge global following and powerful influence 
within the US marketplace, and in Zak Brown we have 
acquired another valuable member of our already strong 
executive team. 
WPP shareholding
At the time of writing there remains uncertainty over WPP’s 
intention regarding its current shareholding in Chime. We will 
issue updates to the market and via the Chime website once 
more information becomes available.
Future prospects
Future prospects for Chime are strong. We remain one 
of the fastest-growing companies in our sector with 
healthily diverse income streams and a fascinating mix of 
clients across the world. We have strong governance, a 
top-quality board and a strong executive team, and as a 
Group we combine the ability to handle the needs of large 
multinationals and small entrepreneurial clients alike. The 
breadth of our offering makes us nimble. However , there 
is still opportunity to be exploited in leveraging our strong 
client relationships more widely across our businesses. Over 
the coming year , we expect to continue to develop in strong 
growth areas whilst taking greater advantage of these cross-
selling opportunities.
Lord Davies of Abersoch 
Chairman 
26 March 2014
Future prospects for Chime are strong. We 
remain one of the fastest-growing companies 
in our sector with healthily diverse income 
streams and a fascinating mix of clients 
across the world. 
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   05
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Building broader momentum
This was another exciting year for Chime and our 
increasingly global communications and sports marketing 
offer . We have taken further significant strides towards 
becoming a global leader in sports marketing, whilst every 
other division of our business delivered strong growth during 
the year .
Performance in 2013
Our topline results reflect the simple fact that 2013 is an 
odd-numbered year , and the world’s biggest sporting 
events take place on alternate even-numbered years. It was 
expected that the performance of our sports marketing 
division CSM Sport & Entertainment would dip between the 
London games and 2014, the year of the Winter Olympics in 
Sochi, the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow and above all, 
the FIFA World Cup in Brazil.
Other than CSM Sport & Entertainment, each division 
delivered strong growth in profits during 2013, a Group-wide 
performance that demonstrates growing momentum across 
all of the sectors in which we operate.
Divisional overview
Our advertising and marketing services division, The VCCP 
Partnership, included two Agency-of-the-Year performances, 
with VCCP Group carrying off the coveted Agency of the 
Year award from Campaign magazine, and our specialist 
financial services agency, Teamspirit, similarly acclaimed by 
the Financial Services Forum. 
The awards recognised strong new business performance, 
but also consistently excellent creative output that shows 
how well the group is positioned to deliver the ‘content-led’ 
campaigns that clients increasingly demand. VCCP Content 
has been one of our most successful start-ups in Chime 
history, Teamspirit has delivered acclaimed campaigns 
for Aviva and Barclays and, VCCP’s commercially astute 
creativity continues to deliver impressive results for 
easyJet, comparethemarket.com and O2, with the O2 work 
recognised as Campaign magazine’s Campaign of the Year .
Elsewhere the re-focusing of Chime’s divisions during the 
last few years is delivering promising returns. In only its 
second full year of operation, Open Health has now grown 
to encompass more than 200 specialists in healthcare 
communications and market access. Its data-driven 
approach and focus on science-based communication fit the 
demand for greater accountability from healthcare spend 
and have generated strong growth that is evenly spread 
across the UK and Europe. Chime Insight & Engagement 
continues to grow, with the great success of its digital 
arm Watermelon playing a key role in delivering strong, 
sustainable performance. 
Meanwhile the Good Relations Group’s rejuvenated offer , 
helping brands to develop and communicate the social 
purpose that consumers increasingly demand, has delivered 
good growth built around clients such as Unilever , TalkTalk 
and Barclays. We welcomed Jackie Brock-Doyle as the 
Group’s new CEO, working alongside Kevin Murray as 
Chairman, and have strengthened our board with specialist 
expertise to lead the development of the business, as 
awareness of the active benefits of social responsibility 
enter the communications mainstream.
Chief Executive’s Statement
06   Chime Communications plc Strategic gains in sports marketing
During the year , CSM Sport & Entertainment completed two 
major acquisitions that represent significant advances for 
our global sports marketing offer . The arrival of JMI under 
its CEO Zak Brown gives us both a dominant position in 
motorsport and a firm foothold in the valuable US market. 
With its immense global and US audiences and its annual 
cycle, motorsport also adds an important element to the 
division’s business model: it helps to even out the variation 
in performance between odd and even years, and aligns us 
with a sport that touches every rapid growth market in the 
shape of F1. We are pleased to announce that in addition 
to continuing as CEO of JMI, Zak will now lead Chime’s 
global business development efforts as part of the team led 
by CSM Sport & Entertainment Executive Chairman, Lord 
Sebastian Coe.
Our acquisition of People Marketing in Shanghai brings 
another valuable addition to our global management team in 
the form of Irene Cheung, whilst providing a strong base for 
the growth of our sponsorship business in Asian markets.
Broadening our business in innovation
The breadth of good performances across Chime in 2013 
testifies to the broad, sustainable base that our business 
already enjoys. The acquisitions of JMI and People 
Marketing will help to broaden the growth opportunities 
for our flagship sports marketing division. However , our 
commitment to building broader momentum for our business 
does not end here. Chime has set an internal target that 10% 
of our annual profits should ideally come from businesses 
founded within the last three years. This commitment to 
continual innovation is one of the best guarantees of broad-
based, sustainable growth in the future. It has already 
delivered impressive launches such as VCCP Content, 
Watermelon and The EarthWorks, the new digital arm of 
Open Health. With the support of our start-up incubator , 
Chime Ventures, we expect to see similar success stories 
on an on-going basis. We are also committed to developing 
the next generation of business leaders within the Group 
through the activity of our youth board, Chime Innovate.
Expanding our global footprint
Alongside our commitment to business innovation, the 
expansion of our divisional offerings to relevant new markets 
remains a key theme of Chime’s strategy . We have made 
significant progress this year with the continued growth 
of Open Health, the good performances delivered by 
VCCP’s businesses in Spain and Australia, and above all, 
the successful expansion of CSM Sport & Entertainment to 
Brazil, China and the US. The increase in our international 
reach not only provides access to the country that will 
dominate the sporting calendar in 2014 and 2016, but 
to countries where the potential of sports marketing is 
enormous in any year . It is one of Chime’s KPIs that 50% 
of our profits should come from overseas businesses within 
the next three years, and we are firmly on course to achieve 
this target.
Leveraging opportunities across the Group
Taking full advantage of our broader global reach will 
require Chime companies to be alive to the opportunities 
that inevitably emerge. We are determined to capitalise on 
the opportunity to be more than the sum of our parts, and 
we have made working with clients through more than one 
company a key focus. There has been notable progress in 
this area, particularly from Open Health, which shares more 
clients within the division than any other part of our Group. 
We expect to make further progress in this area during the 
coming year .
Outlook for 2014
For the reasons outlined, our prospects for 2014 are very 
positive. The position that we have built in the Brazilian 
market positions us very well for the FIFA World Cup, the 
major sporting event of the year . Our agencies have already 
conducted significant work around the Winter Olympics 
in Sochi and will also be involved in the Commonwealth 
Games in Glasgow. Yet the reasons for optimism go 
beyond the natural rises and falls of the sporting cycle. 
CSM Sport & Entertainment’s strategic acquisitions have 
provided powerful opportunities for growth on an annual 
basis, and the continued strong performance of all Chime 
communication divisions puts the future of the group on a 
strong and sustainable footing.
Christopher Satterthwaite 
Chief Executive  
26 March 2014
During the year, CSM Sport & Entertainment 
completed two major acquisitions that 
represent significant advances for our global 
sports marketing offer.
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   07
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements CSM Sport & Entertainment
2013 was a year of consolidation and strategic 
development for Chime’s sports marketing and 
entertainment division. As expected, revenues declined 
following the 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games. 
However, we generated good performances from our 
brand consultancy and rights management businesses 
whilst building our leadership team, and making 
strategic acquisitions that open up important new 
markets.
CSM Sport & Entertainment puts brands at the heart of 
the world’s greatest experiences. It includes the brand 
consultancy Fast Track, the athlete representation, rights 
management and activation business Essentially , the 
branding and wayfinding business Icon and the full-service 
global event business iLUKA. Following acquisitions during 
2013, it now also includes the world’s leading motorsports 
sponsorship agency JMI, and Shanghai-based People 
Marketing. As a result of these acquisitions, the division now 
has operations in the US and China as well as Brazil, Qatar 
and Abu Dhabi. 
2013 Performance
Because the world’s largest sporting events take place in 
even-numbered years, the revenues and profits of Icon 
and iLUKA, our two businesses with activities most directly 
related to these events, tend to follow a two-year cycle. In 
2013, the year following the 2012 Olympic and Paralympic 
Games in London and preceding the Winter Olympics in 
Sochi, the Commonwealth Games and the FIFA World Cup 
in Brazil, revenues and profits for these businesses inevitably 
declined. This decline was exacerbated by some aspects of 
preparation for the World Cup beginning later than expected, 
which will have the impact of increasing revenues in 2014.
Elsewhere, there were good performances from Fast Track, 
which took the lead role in activating HSBC’s sponsorship of 
the successful British and Irish Lions tour to Australia. The 
agency delivered a growing volume of sponsorship work for 
Land Rover , a fellow sponsor of the Lions tour , and continued 
its excellent sponsorship activation activity for Lucozade 
Sport. Meanwhile, Essentially forged the deal that makes 
Waitrose the shirt sponsor for the England cricket team, just 
part of a solid performance that also saw the agency pick 
up significant activation business from PruHealth Vitality, 
sponsor of the International Triathlon Union.
The motorsport opportunity
The acquisition of JMI, which was completed in November 
2013, brings the world’s leading motorsports sponsorship 
agency into the CSM Sport & Entertainment stable – and 
expands the division’s global footprint in two important ways. 
Through motorsport, the division has access to significant 
new, annualised income streams that will offset the cyclical 
nature of our events-related businesses going forward, and 
through JMI itself, it has established a firm foothold in the 
valuable US market.
JMI handles sponsorship, rights management and activation 
for three separate motorsports: through F1 it reaches a 
global audience of more than 2.5 billion cumulatively, 
through IndyCar it provides access to a highly engaged 
audience of TV viewers each season, and in NASCAR, it has 
a lead role in the second-most watched sport in the US, with 
an annual TV audience of over 70 million.
As the leading sponsorship agency for these three sports, 
JMI is a powerful, complementary addition to the division, 
and its strong relationships with US TV networks provide a 
firm foundation for leveraging expertise in other sports within 
the US market.
By Division: Review and Outlook
08   Chime Communications plc Expanding our global footprint
During the year , the division also acquired the Shanghai-
based communications and event management business, 
People Marketing, which greatly strengthens our presence 
in one of the most important emerging markets for sports 
sponsorship. People Marketing strengthens our offer to 
existing clients and other international brands looking to 
grow their presence within China, and also provides us 
with access to the growing market of Chinese companies 
seeking international sponsorship deals to help grow their 
global profile.
Strengthening our board
Our first full-year under the Chairmanship of Lord Sebastian 
Coe has been a positive one for the long-term development 
of the division, and we have made further moves to 
strengthen our board during the year .
JMI’s founder and CEO Zak Brown has taken on an 
additional role with the CSM Sport & Entertainment board, 
overseeing global business development. Ian Priest, one 
of the co-founders of VCCP , also joins as Chief Operating 
Officer . The pair will work with Lord Coe, CSM Chief 
Executive Jim Glover and Deputy Chairman Edward Leask.
Building a divisional identity
Over recent years, CSM Sport & Entertainment has grown to 
be one of the world’s largest sports marketing businesses, 
with 21 offices in 15 countries. Developing a clear , unified 
visual identity for the division will enable us to take full 
advantage of this increasing global scale, and this was a 
key priority for the leadership team during the second half 
of 2013. We will be rolling out this new identity during 2014. 
Outlook for 2014
The outlook for the division in 2014 is positive, with 
significant activity for our businesses around all of the year’s 
three major sporting events. In addition, we look forward to 
a positive contribution from both of the companies acquired 
in 2013.
The VCCP Partnership
The VCCP Partnership delivered not one, but two 
Agency of the Year performances during 2013. The 
VCCP agencies were recognised as Agency of the 
Year by advertising industry journal Campaign and as 
Digital Agency of the Year by the Interactive Advertising 
Bureau (IAB). Meanwhile, specialist financial services 
agency, Teamspirit was declared Agency of the Year by 
the Financial Services Forum. The division delivered 
extremely strong growth in revenues and profitability, 
with VCCP currently the fastest-growing marketing and 
communications agency in the UK.
The VCCP Partnership includes the VCCP agencies, 
an integrated marketing services business that offers 
advertising, content, search, social and media planning 
and buying services. It also includes the specialist financial 
services agency Teamspirit.
2013 Performance
The division delivered a year of extremely strong growth, 
with revenues increasing substantially and profits rising 
by almost 50%. This performance was founded on the 
investments that we have made in building capabilities 
for the modern era. The VCCP agencies offer a unique, 
full-service proposition that covers the disciplines of 
advertising, content, search, social and media planning 
and buying, which resonates strongly with clients seeking 
seamless, integrated solutions. The investments made by 
Teamspirit have ensured that it is strongly positioned to 
meet the demands of financial services clients for an agile, 
continuous campaigning approach.
VCCP topped the Campaign new business performance 
league for the year , with a 68% pitch conversion rate and 
major new business wins including Asda, Zapp, The AA, 
Avis/Budget, Which? and Royal London. It is the fastest-
growing UK agency of the last decade and among the 
top five agencies in the UK, ranked by billings. Our media 
planning and buying business, VCCP Media, is shaking up 
the market through a digital-focused approach that bills for 
time only, and ranked third in Campaign’s new business 
rankings in its first full year of operation.
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   09
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Delivering famously effective campaigns
The success of the division’s agencies is closely linked 
to the performance of the campaigns that we develop for 
clients. We place a firm emphasis on effective delivery 
against measurable client objectives, and this has earned a 
number of awards during the year .
VCCP has established a powerful reputation for commercially 
astute creativity, and for maximising the effectiveness of its 
campaigns by executing them across multiple platforms. Our 
‘Be More Dog’ campaign for long-standing client O2 was 
the most shared ad in the UK during the year and the most 
viewed, shared and talked about ad in O2 history; it was also 
awarded Campaign of the Year by Campaign magazine. 
The ‘Compare the Meerkat’ work for comparethemarket.com 
was voted the country’s favourite ad, and continues to drive 
significant growth for its client, and our ‘easyJet Generation’ 
campaign has helped to make easyJet the fastest growing 
company in the FTSE100. The content strategy developed by 
Teamspirit for Aviva earned it the Marketing Society’s award 
for best B2B campaign during the year .
Commitment to innovation
We are committed to a process of continual innovation 
within the VCCP Partnership, developing start-up businesses 
in response to new technologies and opportunities, and 
ensuring that we continue to offer a seamless, full-service 
solution. The year saw the launch of Ex Nihilo, an executional 
think tank in the digital space that already numbers 
Telefonica, The AA and SAGA among its clients.
VCCP Content has proven one of the most effective 
start-ups in Chime’s experience, and we developed the 
business further this year by combining it with our social 
media operation to create VCCP Kin. In a similar move, we 
have combined our data analytics and direct marketing 
businesses to create VCCP Me, and streamlined our media 
planning and buying operation with the merging of VCCP 
Search with VCCP Media. Such moves help to ensure that 
our commitment to innovation does not result in duplication 
between different, emerging parts of the business. 
Progress in global markets
VCCP offices in Australia, Germany and Spain performed 
well during the year as we continue to develop our footprint 
in response to demand from existing clients. The division 
is open to opportunities to establish a position in additional 
overseas markets where strong demand exists for its 
integrated, multi-platform offering.
Outlook for 2014
Following five years of restricted budgets, the prospects for 
the marketing services industry as a whole are improving in 
the UK and overseas. The strength of the VCCP Partnership 
and Teamspirit’s propositions ensures that both are well 
positioned to continue to benefit from this trend.
By Division: Review and Outlook
continued
10   Chime Communications plc The Good Relations Group
In the middle of 2012, after the departure of Bell 
Pottinger, we formed The Good Relations Group as 
a ‘grown up start up’. The Group brings together 
the remaining Chime companies doing corporate 
responsibility, public relations and customer advocacy 
work under a single proposition: to help clients build 
trusted brands through good actions, good relationships 
and good recommendations.
In 2013, we continued the repositioning of the group, 
aligning our offers, investing in top talent, and building 
awareness of the brand, while also growing the top line.
The Good Relations Group comprises Corporate Citizenship, 
Harvard, Good Relations Brands, TTA Property , and 
InEvidence, which work together to help clients thrive 
through good actions, good engagement and good 
recommendation.
2013 Performance
The Group delivered a strong new business performance, 
growing revenues by just under 5% year-on-year . The arrival 
of new clients such as Friends Life, Royal Mail, De Beers, 
Qualcomm, Cisco, B&Q and HTC enabled us to grow the top 
line whilst funding investment in talent and brand building. 
We maintained our profit, year-on-year . 
In addition, we have continued to renew and build client 
relationships in a highly competitive environment. For 
example, we continue to work with Unilever after re-pitching 
successfully for the business. We have grown our work for 
Fujitsu and were voted their ‘ Agency of the Year’ for 2013. 
Meanwhile, TTA Property continues to grow its high-profile 
work for the Berkeley Group, which was voted Britain’s 
second Most Admired Company in 2013.
Investing in talent and leadership
We welcomed Jackie Brock-Doyle OBE as the new CEO of 
Good Relations Group, in June 2013. Her work as Director 
of Communications and Public Affairs for the London 2012 
Olympic and Paralympic Games and previously as Head of 
Media and PR for the London 2012 bid has made Jackie one 
of the most admired figures working in public relations and 
communications. She was PR Week’s PR Professional of the 
Year in 2012 and was recently listed in the Debrett/Sunday 
Times top 500 most influential people in Britain. Her decision 
to join the Group is a powerful affirmation of our vision and 
strategy going forward.
Jackie works alongside the Group’s chairman Kevin Murray 
in leading a team that has been substantially reinforced and 
redeveloped to support the future strategy of the business. 
Our investment in new talent has included new directors of 
corporate communications and consumer public relations 
at Good Relations Brands, and the appointment of Amelia 
Torode, previously Chime’s Head of Innovation and a Partner 
at VCCP , as Director of Strategy . We have also invested in top 
creative talent, as well as digital experts. We will continue to 
invest in talent as we build our proposition during 2014.
The Triple G rating: measuring The Power of Good
In August 2013, the Good Relations Group launched its 
Triple G rating, a new measure of reputation that accounts 
for a brand’s soft capital. The Triple G rating captures 
whether consumers rate a brand as a force for good, think it 
has a good relationship with them, and whether they would 
give it a good recommendation.
The Triple G rating was built on proprietary research 
commissioned by the Group and conducted by Chime 
Insight and Engagement, which asked more than 3,500 
consumers to score 100 well-known consumer brands on the 
triple measures of ‘Good Actions’, ‘Good Engagement’ and 
‘Good Recommendations’. At the end of the process only 
20 of the 100 brands achieved a positive ‘Triple G’ across all 
three elements, ensuring the exclusivity of this rating.
The launch of the Triple G rating produced an immediate 
impact in the marketplace, with Marketing Week devoting its 
cover and a 6-page feature to the concept. It has proven an 
invaluable tool in focusing the agenda of brand marketers on 
perceptions of Good as the essential currency of reputation, 
opening up senior-level conversations and opportunities 
with current and potential clients. We will be building on this 
success by developing an equivalent Triple G rating for b2b 
brands during 2014.
Brand development
The strength of the Power of Good positioning and our 
continuing thought leadership are reinforced by the unified 
brand identity that we introduced across all of the Group 
companies during 2013. This embeds our central proposition 
whilst respecting the importance to our offer of brands such 
as Corporate Citizenship, Harvard, Good Relations Brands, 
InEvidence and TTA Property . 
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   11
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements One of our most effective pieces of thought leadership was 
Chairman Kevin Murray’s best-selling business book, The 
Language of Leaders, which helped to generate opportunities 
and several new clients. His new book, Communicate to 
Inspire, has just gone on sale and will form the cornerstone 
of several marketing events and dinners in 2014.
As part of our brand re-organisation, we have incorporated 
our public affairs and political business within our corporate 
offer . We remain firmly committed to this area and will 
continue to provide expert consultancy under the Good 
Relations Brand Communications banner .
Embedding digital at the heart of the offering
Good Relations Group is ranked as one of the UK’s top six 
digital communications agencies, based on the proportion 
of its revenues represented by digital business. Digital 
remains absolutely fundamental to our offer in the market, 
and is the key driver of the consumer advocacy that the 
Power of Good enables and the Triple G rating helps 
to measure. We continue to invest significantly in digital 
training and talent development, including through our 
innovative partnerships with the likes of Google and Twitter . 
We specialise in optimising communications across the full 
range of digital platforms, and social media monitoring is 
core to the service we offer .
Outlook for 2014
We expect the encouraging new business performance 
of the Group to continue during 2014, as we complete 
our repositioning of the business and continue to invest in 
brand and talent. This year we will be focusing on improving 
margin, innovating and expanding our products and 
services while building the platform for accelerated growth 
in revenues and profitability during 2015.
Chime Insight & Engagement Group 
Chime Insight & Engagement Group (CIE) delivered an 
excellent performance during 2013, with strong growth 
across the division’s businesses, improving margins and 
a digital offering that has connected with client demand 
for real-time, actionable insight. The strong growth 
achieved in both revenue and profitability made this the 
most successful year in the division’s history.
Chime Insight & Engagement consists of the research 
agencies Brand Democracy, Cherry Picked, Facts 
International, Naked Eye, Opinion Leader , and Watermelon 
Research. Together these offer a full range of digital, 
telephone-based and face-to-face techniques for qualitative, 
quantitative and deliberative research. Watermelon 
Research, a digital research solution that connects 
businesses to the voice of the consumer in real-time, 
is ideally suited to the demands of the Big Data era.
2013 Performance
Our businesses delivered robust revenue growth during the 
year , with a particularly strong performance from Watermelon 
Research in its second year of operation. Continued growth 
in face-to-face and telephone-based research helped 
to drive the most profitable year in the history of Facts 
International. Meanwhile, the Opinion Leader business 
continues its good performance, with the qualitative 
operation attracting significant repeat business and new 
clients from the public and private sectors, and its recently 
launched quantitative offer dovetailing with the division’s in-
house fieldwork capabilities to drive additional revenue.
The rapid expansion in demand for Watermelon’s offering 
provided the dominant theme of the year . It demonstrates 
that the division is extremely well placed to meet the 
growing demand for real-time customer feedback, and the 
requirement for businesses to derive clear insight from Big 
Data. Watermelon bridges the gap between research and 
technology , providing its customers with instant management 
information through bespoke multi-platform dashboards, as 
well as proprietary research and consultancy services. It 
enables immediate responses to customer experience and 
has quickly established itself as an essential information 
tool. The business has become Chime’s most successful 
ever start-up, and has grown to a team of 20 people in under 
two years.
By Division: Review and Outlook
continued
12   Chime Communications plc Continuing commitment to innovation
We remain committed to innovation, and the expansion 
of the division’s offer through start-ups. During 2013, 
we launched Cherry Picked, a specialist offer focused 
on profiling and recruitment for focus groups and depth 
interviews, which achieved profitability in its first year of 
operation. We will continue to explore the potential of new 
research techniques and delivery models as they emerge.
Expanding footprint in Australia
Our operation in Australia provides a strategic advantage in 
enabling our businesses to deliver 24-hour service to clients 
and turn around the rapid insight that decision-makers 
increasingly require. We launched Watermelon Research in 
Australia this year , and Watermelon, Facts International and 
Opinion Leader are generating increased traction from our 
Sydney base.
Strengthening our consultancy line-up
We continue to invest in attracting the best research talent to 
the CIE, with a number of additional senior-level hires during 
2013. In continuing to bolster our line-up of senior directors, 
we are able to grow the contribution of consultancy services 
to the division’s overall revenues, further helping to improve 
margins for our business.
Outlook for 2014
The capabilities that drove an excellent performance in 
2013 will continue to provide strong advantages against 
the backdrop of an improving research market. We expect 
demand for Watermelon Research’s innovative, digital offer 
and Facts International’s fieldwork services to continue 
to grow.
OPEN Health Group 
With significant growth in revenue and profitability, 
OPEN Health consolidated the position it has rapidly 
established as a leader in the European healthcare 
market. At the same time, it has continued to develop its 
marketing, communications and market access offer to 
touch the most important growth areas for the sector.
OPEN Health includes the advertising and brand 
communication practice, OPEN LEC, the medical education 
agency Succinct, the healthcare public relations business 
Reynolds-MacKenzie, the medical market research agency 
OPEN Plan, the digital operation The EarthWorks, and 
real world data experts pH Associates and Harvey Walsh. 
Following launches during 2013 and early 2014, it also 
includes the market access consulting company, OPEN 
Access Consulting, and the patient-focused marketing and 
communications agency, Engage.
This network of businesses constitutes a full-service 
marketing and market access offer , operating across the UK 
and Europe under the OPEN Health umbrella brand, and 
with a particular focus on the pharmaceutical sector .
2013 Performance
The Group delivered a good performance in 2013, with 
significant revenue growth across both of its core business 
areas. We have maintained margins whilst successfully 
incorporating the businesses acquired during the previous 
year , and this has ensured healthy growth in profitability . 
The Group now works for roughly 90% of the world’s top 
40 pharmaceutical companies, delivering solutions for 115 
clients and 190 brands.
Growth was strongest of all for our market access 
businesses, pH Associates and Harvey Walsh. These 
address a growing demand for an evidence-based 
approach that can make the case for new pharmaceutical 
treatments on the basis of economic impact as well as 
health benefits. The ability to leverage scientific, economic 
and medical data to demonstrate cost-efficiency and return 
on investment is now vital for companies presenting to 
buying organisations such as the NHS and NICE. It therefore 
represents an increasing focus for pharmaceutical marketing 
budgets.
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   13
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Developing our offer in growth areas
We have continued to build our offer in high-growth areas by 
launching and developing businesses that address the key 
priorities for the pharmaceutical sector .
The launch of OPEN Access Consulting adds an important 
dimension to our market access proposition, building on the 
data capabilities provided by PH Associates and Harvey 
Walsh with a consultancy offer that delivered good growth 
in its first year .
On the marketing and communications side, we launched 
Engage, a new agency focused on patient insight and 
engagement, and reflecting the growing influence that 
patients have over their own treatment as information on 
medicines becomes readily available online. 
The continued development of our digital marketing 
communications business, The EarthWorks addresses an 
area of increasing importance for marketing to healthcare 
professionals, buying organisations and patients alike. 
Whether communicating directly with patients or doctors or 
putting collateral into the hands of field sales teams, there is 
an increasing demand for multi-platform digital capabilities 
– and this is what The EarthWorks has been designed to 
provide. The business delivered strong growth in its first year , 
with work for Pfizer , GlaxoSmithKline and AbbVie.
Building synergies across our businesses
One of the great strengths of the OPEN Health Group is 
our ability to add value for clients by providing services 
across several of our businesses. The Group currently has 
the largest proportion of shared clients within Chime, and 
connecting the different elements of our offer is a natural 
source of opportunity in our sector . We strengthened the 
connections between our businesses in 2013 when we 
moved our Succinct medical communications business 
to our offices in Marlow, where it forms part of a growing 
campus of Open Health operations.
International footprint
Our marketing communications businesses have been able 
to establish a strong international footprint thanks to the 
position of the UK as a key hub for clients managing regional 
and global campaigns. It is our intention to build on this 
initial advantage through developing our presence in other 
key regional buying hubs, and we are actively exploring 
opportunities for increasing our share of work commissioned 
from North America, Asia Pacific and mainland Europe.
Outlook for 2014
We expect the areas that drove growth for our businesses 
in 2013 to continue to do so over the coming year . Market 
access and patient engagement remain particular priorities 
for the pharmaceutical sector , as does the requirement 
to reach all audiences across a growing range of digital 
platforms. For these reasons, we expect our recent launches 
to continue to deliver good growth in the year ahead.
By Division: Review and Outlook
continued
HOW WE MEASURE OUR PROGRESS
Chime measures its delivery against strategic goals via 
six key performance indicators. These are: 
•	 earnings per share; 
•	 profit margin; 
•	 income from overseas businesses; 
•	 average fee per client; 
•	 income from clients utilising more than one Chime 
group company; and
•	 working capital.
Earnings per share, profit margin and working capital 
are measures of direct relevance to shareholders. The 
progress on shared clients, income from overseas 
businesses and average fee per client are indicators 
of our progress towards our strategic goals. We report 
against these KPIs for each financial period. Progress 
over the last four years is shown on page 3.
In addition to our performance towards achieving our 
financial goals we also measure our impact on the 
environment, levels of employee engagement and, 
for the first time this year , the gender diversity within 
our business. It is our intention to keep the levels of 
monitoring and disclosure under review to ensure that 
we give a fair and understandable view of not only our 
targets but our continuing performance, both financial 
and non-financial.
14   Chime Communications plc The Board has considered the risks and uncertainties 
affecting the Group as at 31 December 2013 and these are 
summarised below. The Group has specific policies and 
processes in place to ensure risks are properly evaluated 
and managed at the appropriate level within the Group. 
These policies are set out in the Directors’ Statement on 
Corporate Governance in the section headed Internal 
Control on page 51.
In addition to the general economic and competitive risks 
affecting businesses operating in the Group’s markets, the 
following are considered to be the principal risks impacting 
the Group. These risks are regularly assessed and monitored 
by the senior management team in each Division and by the 
Executive Management Team. The Audit Committee reviews 
the Group’s systems of risk management as part of its duties.
RISK MITIGATION / COMMENT
INTERNAL RISKS
Reputation and sustainability 
Damage to Chime’s reputation as a result of failure, or an 
issue, concerning a high profile individual, project or brand.
Chime’s business is maintaining and enhancing the 
reputations of brands, corporates and individuals. As such, 
management is aware and acknowledges the exposure it 
has to such issues occurring. Such exposure is expressly 
considered as part of the risk management process, both 
in terms of maintaining our own reputation and that of our 
individual key staff.
Mitigated by operating Companies and their internal 
procedures and processes aimed at delivering excellent 
services. Risk assessments are also undertaken on major 
projects (e.g. World Cup 2014 and Olympics 2016). Crisis 
management and recovery protocols are in place to mitigate 
possible risks.
Security of Data:
•	 Data loss or breach of client confidentiality due to 
inadequate security of data. 
•	 Failure to adequately protect data could impact the 
Group’s reputation and create the risk of litigation and/or 
the loss of business. 
The Group works for a number of clients where we hold not 
only confidential data but data on our clients’ customers. 
We work with clients to ensure that the current disciplines 
and secure means of storage, process and transfer are 
appropriate.
Our systems are tested regularly for business interruption 
incidents and that security levels remain fit for purpose.
•	 Marketing ethics, compliance with marketing standards.
•	 Failure to comply with laws, industry codes or governing 
bodies could impact the Group’s reputation and its 
relationship with clients. 
Chime has a set of core values (see page 26) together 
with a Code of Conduct applicable to all staff. Individual 
Divisions and/or agencies will have additional measures 
applied due to their market, operating discipline or culture.
Each Division is responsible for meeting both Chime’s overall 
values in the manner best suited to each business. Where 
appropriate, compliance officers and ethics committees lead 
the process. Overall compliance is a measure undertaken 
via our risk management processes.
Risks and Uncertainties
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   15
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements RISK MITIGATION / COMMENT
Reputation and sustainability
Inappropriate Use of Social Networking:
•	 Client disputes and reputational loss due to staff 
misconduct on social networking sites is a risk faced by all 
businesses.
Our Group values (see page 26) underpin everything that 
we do. 
Our induction programmes and employment standards 
convey the required levels of behaviour expected of our 
staff. The Group continues to review this area and has 
increased the emphasis on avoiding the improper use of 
social media.
Disaster Recovery Plans:
•	 A significant loss of resources (eg. property , a key 
individual or technical resource).
Each Company, building and IT infrastructure network 
has its own tailored disaster recovery plan and it is the 
responsibility of the local management team to continue 
to develop these. 
A Group-wide review project will take place in 2014 ensuring 
that disaster recovery plans are in place for all key resources.
Legal and regulatory – Regulatory and statutory changes
The Group may be subject to regulations affecting its 
activities which could have a material adverse impact on the 
Group’s financial position. 
Changes in tax and accountancy laws or their application 
may also adversely affect the Group’s reported results.
The Group actively monitors any proposed regulatory and 
statutory changes and, under the guidance of the Audit 
Committee, develops a response comparable to the risks or 
exposures faced by our operations due to such changes.
Legal and regulatory – Bribery and corruption
All businesses are exposed to the threat of corruption. 
The winning of business and logistical issues within our 
operations could give rise to bribery .
Chime’s stated values, Code of Conduct and the 
formalisation of processes to meet the risks of corruption 
are in place and appropriate for our business.
Our policies and procedures remain under review by 
the Audit Committee whilst compliance is monitored by 
management and our internal audit function.
Financial risks
Recoverability of debtors:
•	 The Group may be unable to collect balances due from 
clients that have filed for bankruptcy or become insolvent. 
•	 The Group’s cash flow requirements may be adversely 
affected by delays in collections from clients and the slow 
receipt of cash.
Client credit worthiness is assessed and monitored on an 
on-going basis. If necessary, credit insurance or payments 
in advance are sought. 
In the current economic climate the Group has seen client 
pressure to extend credit terms. Whilst this is challenged 
where possible, cash flow impact is monitored to ensure that 
sufficient financial resources are available.
Risks and Uncertainties
continued
16   Chime Communications plc RISK MITIGATION / COMMENT
Financial risks
Undetected fraud and cash thefts:
•	 Fraud taking place within the Group which remains 
undetected and escalates leading to a cash loss and/or 
reputational impact for the Group.
The financial results and forecasts of each Group Company 
are rigorously monitored and analysed on a monthly basis. 
All Group Companies are subjected to an Internal Audit 
review when bank and cash controls, purchase approvals 
and payment authorisations are reviewed and tested. 
Reporting Procedures:
•	 Errors and efficiency losses as a result of not having 
accurate and timely reporting and consolidation.
Whilst the Group’s current reporting systems and processes 
are fully functioning and effective, the Group is in the 
process of implementing a new group reporting and 
consolidation system which should streamline the reporting 
process. This will be in place by the end of 2014.  
Acquired Goodwill and Intangible Assets:
•	 Acquired goodwill and other intangible assets recorded 
on the Group’s balance sheet with respect to acquired 
companies may become impaired.
The Group has a significant amount of goodwill and 
other acquired intangible assets recorded on its balance 
sheet with respect to acquired companies that may 
become impaired if business performance does not meet 
expectations. 
The Group performs due diligence on all acquisitions and 
this forms part of the Board’s assessment of each proposed 
transaction. In addition, future events could cause the Group 
to conclude that the asset values and goodwill associated 
with a given operation have become impaired. Performance, 
both historic and forecast is measured on a monthly basis.
Revenue Recognition:
•	 Revenue incorrectly recognised within Company financial 
statements.
•	 Either as a result of revenue recognised in the wrong 
accounting period or revenue which has not yet been 
earned as per contract clauses.
Revenue recognition is determined by the contract and 
Chime’s revenue recognition policy .
Company and Divisional finance teams are responsible for 
monitoring and recording revenue in the correct manner and 
as per client contracts.
Revenue provisions are reviewed and tested across the 
Group on a monthly basis by Chime Central.
All Group companies subject to an annual Internal Audit 
where revenue provisions are tested.
Currency exchange rate fluctuations
The Group operates globally , as explained in note 3 to 
the financial statements. Fluctuations in exchange rates 
between currencies, in which the Group operates, relative 
to pounds sterling, may cause fluctuations in its financial 
results, particularly in the current economic climate within 
the Eurozone. 
The main currencies which impact the Group’s operations 
are the Euro, Brazilian Real and US Dollar . 
An assessment has been performed of the impact of 
significant fluctuations in exchange rates of the main foreign 
currencies used by the Group, as shown in note 38 of these 
financial statements.
On negotiation of contracts and where possible client 
commitments are made in pounds sterling to alleviate risk.
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   17
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements RISK MITIGATION / COMMENT
Client dependency
The Group receives a significant proportion of its revenues 
from a limited number of large clients, and the loss of those 
clients would adversely impact the Group’s prospects, 
business, financial condition and result of operations.
A relatively small number of clients contribute a significant 
percentage of the Group’s consolidated revenues. Our 
largest client represented 12.5% of operating income in the 
year ended 31 December 2013 (2012: 12.5%). Our top 30 
clients represented 44% of total income compared to 49% 
in 2012. 
The Group continues to maintain strong relationships with 
key clients and seeks to establish reputations in the industry 
that will attract and retain further key clients and talent.
Due to the number of services provided by the Group and 
the drive for cross Group working, on many occasions a 
shared client may be secured under a number of contracts. 
The loss of one contract does not necessarily mean the loss 
of that client.
Retention of key personnel
The Group is dependent on the talent, creative abilities and 
technical skills of its personnel, as well as their relationships 
with clients. 
If the Group were unable to attract and retain its key 
talent, or had inadequate talent management and 
succession planning for key management roles, the Group’s 
performance would be adversely affected through client 
losses and profitability . 
The Group seeks to retain and develop personnel at 
all levels. The Group’s future success is dependent on 
the continuity of services to clients and the retention of 
knowledge and relationships within the Group. The loss or 
lack of development of personnel could have a material 
adverse effect on the Group’s business. The Group and 
its Divisions continue to design and implement training 
schemes in order to further motivate and develop staff.
Key employees are members of incentive plans which link 
remuneration to Company performance. These are designed 
to motivate and drive both the achievement of short term 
objectives and retain and reward staff in the long term.
Succession planning in terms of both management positions 
and relationships with clients is reviewed on a regular basis 
and is a recurring item highlighted during the Group’s risk 
management process.
Additionally, insurance is procured for key individuals at 
a level to reflect the fee earning potential of the individual 
concerned. 
Risks and Uncertainties
continued
18   Chime Communications plc RISK MITIGATION / COMMENT
Mergers and acquisitions
The Group may be unsuccessful in evaluating material risks 
involved in completed and future acquisitions and may be 
unsuccessful in integrating any acquired operations within its 
existing businesses.
Business, legal, tax and financial due diligence carried out 
prior to acquisition to seek to identify and evaluate material 
risks and plan the integration process.
Board oversight of material acquisitions and performance of 
recent and prior acquisitions. 
Divisions are responsible for integrating and embedding 
their acquisitions. This will include Chime wide guidelines 
and processes.
All new acquisitions are subject to Internal Audit reviews.
Authority to commit
Companies may exceed their power of authority and 
unilaterally enter into agreements which require the express 
approval of Chime Group.
Standards and authority levels have been set by the Group.
Company and Divisional Heads are aware that authority 
thresholds are in place limiting their power of authority . 
Where applicable, additional Chime authority is required.
This is subject to review by Internal Audit. 
Contractual terms 
Financial uncertainty through loss of client or legal disputes  
with client.
Guidance on acceptable liabilities and commitments are 
established. Any requirement above these pre-determined 
limits requires Group approval. Major contract terms are 
verified by the Company , Divisional and Group legal departments.
Once legal commitments are established in client contracts,  
levels of financial commitment (either in external procurement  
or a commitment of resources) are controlled accordingly . 
This process is a subject of focus by Internal Audit as part  
of the regular review of the application of our control framework.
Management of overseas operations
Operational control being less effective due to distant central 
management.
Over-reliance on key individuals within an overseas office:
Many of the overseas offices are small and contact with 
Chime is at times reliant on a small group of individuals.
We recognise that expansion internationally places demands 
on our management structure. Whilst Chime has a divisional 
structure we are developing a regional matrix which will 
meet the demands of expansion into new territories.
Oversight of start-ups and smaller acquisitions in remote 
markets is undertaken by both Divisional and Group 
management and remains under constant review.
Regular contact is maintained with the overseas offices via 
reporting. Visits are made on an annual basis by the Internal 
Auditor .
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   19
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements RISK MITIGATION / COMMENT
EXTERNAL RISKS
Economic and political environment
The Group operates in a number of territories with varied 
economic and political environments which could affect 
trading and profitability . 
Reductions in client spending, renegotiation of contract 
terms, or switching of client expenditure to non-traditional 
media may lead to reduced profitability .
Political Risks: Such as the effects of political uncertainty, 
economic disruptions (e.g. sanctions) could influence both 
revenue and/or cash flow streams.
The Group has reviewed the controls over authority levels 
for commitments to capital expenditure and working capital 
and these are deemed appropriate. Control processes are 
monitored and exceptions reported via the Audit Committee. 
The Group has invested in non-traditional media and has put 
digital and social media at the heart of campaigns. 
The Group, and in particular , CSM, is involved in the delivery 
of major sporting and entertainment events. An assessment 
of each event is undertaken to ensure that potential 
exposure and liabilities are reduced by advance funding 
by the client and/or by appropriate insurance. For global 
events (such as the FIFA World Cup or Olympics) it is likely 
that events would be delayed and rescheduled rather than 
cancelled.
Business environment
The Group may be exposed by changes within the wider 
business environment, which may adversely impact its 
Companies. 
For example, governments, government agencies and 
industry bodies may adopt statutes, regulations or codes of 
practice that directly or indirectly affect Group companies 
and their current business models and strategies. 
Members of executive management within Companies 
and Divisions are responsible for identifying, reporting and 
mitigating key risks facing their business, both in the short 
and long term. 
Changes to the business landscape are actively identified 
by management and where necessary, alterations are made 
to business models and strategies in order to suitably react 
to adverse market conditions and maintain growth.
Increased industry competition
The Group competes in a highly competitive industry . The 
competition for new clients and additional business is 
increasingly competitive, particularly in the current economic 
climate. Loss of clients and decreased business may reduce 
market share and decrease profits.
Increased pricing pressure from existing and new 
customers.
Procurement of marketing and event services face 
increased pressure on pricing and increased deliverables. 
This may lead to a reduced margin.
Group Companies continue to establish reputations in 
their industries that attract and retain clients through the 
consistent delivery of quality creative services.
The Group is structured into Divisions which operate in 
different industries – from a Group perspective, this further 
mitigates the risk. 
The Group has increased its legal and new business 
resources in order to meet the demands of client 
procurement processes. Profit margin remains a key 
performance indicator for subsidiary companies and for the 
Group as a whole.
Risks and Uncertainties
continued
20   Chime Communications plc Principal activities and business model 
For management purposes, the Group is currently organised 
into five operating segments: Sport & Entertainment, 
Advertising and Marketing Services, Public Relations, 
Healthcare and, Insight & Engagement.
Principal activities are as follows:
Sport & Entertainment
The Sport & Entertainment division is the fastest growing 
Sport & Entertainment group in the world, and includes 
ICON, the Essentially Group, iLUKA, Fast Track and most 
recently JMI and People Marketing. In the UK market, Fast 
Track and Essentially are number one and number two 
respectively in the sponsorship leagues tables (Marketing 
Magazine, November 2012). 
Advertising and Marketing Services (‘AMS’)
The AMS division includes the VCCP Group and Teamspirit. 
It possesses specialist skills in advertising and marketing 
services, direct marketing, digital communication, search 
relations, point of sale, sales promotion, data consultancy 
and technical design, multimedia content, youth marketing 
and experiential, marketing consulting, retail and shopper 
marketing and specialist media planning and buying. It also 
specialises in the niche market of financial services.
Public Relations
The Good Relations Group is a fully integrated brand 
communications and CSR consultancy servicing more 
than 400 clients in the UK and internationally . Companies 
include: Corporate Citizenship, a best-in-class global CSR 
consultancy, inEvidence, a market-leading and global 
business-to-business customer advocacy agency, Good 
Relations Brand Communications, one of the UK’s leading 
consumer brand and B2B public relations agencies, 
Harvard, a renowned technology public relations business, 
and TTA Property, an award-winning property public 
relations business.
Insight & Engagement
The Insight & Engagement division brings together some 
of the country’s leading insight specialists with the most 
extensive and innovative research solutions to help their 
clients to reach faster conclusions, make better decisions 
and develop more informed solutions. The Insight & 
Engagement division is made up of Opinion Leader 
Research, Facts International and Watermelon Research.
Healthcare
Open Health, a healthcare communications and market 
access group, was formed in 2011, and comprises 
organically developed and acquired businesses. The group 
brands are Open LEC, Open Plan, Reynolds-MacKenzie, 
Succinct, The Earth Works, Harvey Walsh and pH 
Associates. 
The information that fulfils the requirements of the enhanced 
business review, as required by Section 417 of the 
Companies Act 2006 (‘the Act’) and which form part of this 
report by reference are included in the following sections of 
the Annual Report:
•	 a review of the performance and development of the 
Group’s business during the year , its position at the year 
end and its prospects is set out in the Chief Executive’s 
Statement, the divisional reviews and outlook and this 
fair review of the business; The principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group are described on  
pages 15 to 26;
•	 details of the principal subsidiaries are set out in  
note 18; and
•	 the Group’s use of financial instruments is set out in  
note 38 of the financial statements.
As a whole the Annual Report provides information about 
the Group’s businesses, its financial performance during 
the year and likely future developments. There have been no 
significant changes to the Group’s principal trading activities 
during the year under review and the Directors are not 
aware, at the date of this report, of any likely major changes 
in the Group’s activities in the new financial year . 
On 5 March 2014 the Group acquired 100% of The Blaze 
Agency Pty Ltd, a company incorporated in Australia, 
for initial consideration of AUD$2,000,000 (£1,073,000). 
Additional consideration is payable contingent on the results 
of the business, capped at the maximum of AUD$4,000,000 
(£2,146,000).
Headline and statutory results
In this Annual Report where headline results are shown 
they are prepared to provide an indication of the Group’s 
underlying business performance.
A Fair Review of the Business
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   21
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Key Performance Indicators (‘KPIs’)
The Group manages its internal operational performance 
using a number of KPIs. The most important of these are as 
follows:
2013 2012
Headline operating profit
1
£25.8m £25.8m
Reported operating profit - £4.9m
Headline operating profit margin
1
15.2% 16.4%
Reported operating profit margin - 3.1%
Diluted headline EPS
1
19.5p 21.3p
Diluted reported EPS (12.6p) (4.5p)
Headline profit before tax
1
£25m £25.4m
Reported (loss)/profit before tax £4.7m £2.5m
Average fee income per client £99,000 £91,000
% of operating income from clients 
shared by more than one business in the 
Group 68% 68%
% of operating income from  
overseas offices 19% 12%
1
  The appendix to this report includes a reconciliation of these headline numbers to 
the reported numbers. The headline numbers adjust for the following:
All numbers and comments shown in this section are headline unless otherwise 
stated. The appendix to this announcement shows a reconciliation of these headline 
numbers to the reported numbers. The headline numbers adjust for the following:
•  Deemed remuneration charge add back in respect of the change in accounting 
policy for earn-out payments including LLP capital based payments. 
•  Add back of charges to the income statement in respect of amortisation of 
intangible assets, impairment of goodwill (see note 8) and costs relating to 
acquisition and restructuring.
•  Discontinued business that does not meet the definition of discontinued operations 
under the accounting standard. This related to the geopolitical business within Bell 
Pottinger and our disposal of MMK.
Operating profit, profit before tax and earnings per share 
Headline operating profit
1 
in line with 2012 to £25.8 million 
(2012: £25.8 million) and headline profit before tax
1
 
decreased by 2% to £25 million (2012: £25.4 million). 
Headline diluted earnings per share
1
 decreased from 21.3p 
in 2012 to 19.5p in 2013, 
Reported operating profit decreased to £19,000 (2012: 
£4.9 million) and reported loss before tax increased to 
£4.7 million (2012: Profit of £2.5 million). Reported loss per 
share increased to (12.6p) from (4.5p) in 2012.
Financial Position
Assets 
£’000
Liabilities 
£’000
Net assets 
£’000
Property, plant and  
equipment 9,837 - 9,837 
Goodwill and intangible  
assets 234,636 - 234,636 
Investments 6,603 - 6,603 
Current assets and liabilities 88,455 (93,810) (5,355)
Deferred tax 2,833 - 2,833 
Other financial assets 382 - 382 
Long term provisions - (652) (652)
Deferred consideration and 
deemed remuneration - (23,884) (23,884)
Total before net debt 342,746 (119,003) 224,632 
Net debt - (40,585) (40,585)
Total as at  
31 December 2013 342,746 (159,588) 184,047 
Total as at  
31 December 2012 260,223 (103,627) 156,596 
Deferred consideration and deemed remuneration
The estimated earn-outs (which include consideration 
treated as deemed remuneration) payable in 2014 total 
£8.6 million and are payable £5.2 million in cash or loan 
notes and £3.4 million in shares. 
Details of the maximum amounts payable are included in 
notes 28 and 29 to the financial statements.
Cash flow and banking arrangements
Net debt at 31 December 2013 was £40.6 million compared 
to £4.2 million cash at 31 December 2012. Net bank debt 
at 31 December was £39.8 million compared to £4.2 million 
cash at 31 December 2012.
On August 2012 the Company entered into a £45m multi-
currency revolving credit facility with RBS and on 13 June 
2013 HSBC was joined to the facility as an additional lender . 
On 24 October 2013, HSBC’s commitment under the facility 
extended to £45m, increasing the total commitment under 
the facility to £95m. This runs until September 2016, with an 
interest rate of between 1.75% and 2.75%, depending on 
use of facility compared to EBITDA.
Capital expenditure and investment
Total capital expenditure for 2013 was £6.1 million (2012: 
£3.1 million). The main categories of investment was fixtures, 
fittings and computers (£3.3million).
A Fair Review of the Business
continued
22   Chime Communications plc The bi-annual sports cycle
A significant proportion of our business is now in sports 
marketing and major events such as the Olympics and 
the FIFA World Cup take place in ‘even’ numbered years. 
This results in an increased variance in the level of income 
opportunities. Our other businesses in advertising and 
marketing services, public relations, healthcare and insight 
and engagement partially moderate this effect.
In 2013, Chime acquired JMI, the leading motorsports 
marketing specialist with a foundation in the USA and 
worldwide operations centred additionally in London and 
Hong Kong. Formula 1, NASCAR and IndyCar have annual 
seasons which will further help smooth any disparity 
between even and odd numbered years. JMI also gives  
CSM a major foothold in North America, the world’s largest 
sports market.
Procurement
The Group operates a divisional procurement function which 
is co-ordinated from the Group centre. This utilises the power 
of the Group to ensure that all businesses buy materials and 
services as cost effectively as possible.
Pensions
All the Group’s employees are entitled to contribute to the 
Group’s pension scheme or to personal pension schemes. 
These are defined contribution schemes.
Taxation
The effective tax rate for 2013 was 26% compared to 28% 
for 2012.
The effective tax rate excludes amortisation of intangibles, 
impairment of goodwill; write down of investments, costs of 
acquisitions and deemed remuneration, none of which are 
tax deductible.
The rate is expected to continue to reduce in future years 
particularly as the Group pays the majority of its tax in the 
UK where the rate of corporation tax continues to fall.
Finance costs
Finance costs net of interest receivable were £1.6 million. 
In addition there was a charge of £0.7 million in relation to 
the finance cost of deferred consideration and deemed 
remuneration.
Treasury policy 
The Group’s treasury policy is detailed in note 38 to the 
financial statements.
Capital structure
The Group is financed primarily through equity but has 
available credit facilities as detailed above.
Going concern basis 
The Group meets its day to day working capital requirements 
through a £95 million rolling overdraft facility and a 
committed facility which matures in September 2016.
In preparing forecasts the Directors have taken into account 
the following key factors:
•	 the rate of growth of the UK and global economy on the 
Group’s business during the economic recovery;
•	 key client account renewals;
•	 planned acquisitions and disposals;
•	 anticipated payments under deemed remuneration and 
deferred and contingent consideration;
•	 the level of committed and variable costs; and
•	 current new business targets compared to levels achieved 
in previous years.
The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of 
reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show 
that the Group should be able to operate within the level of 
its current facility and banking covenants.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
More detail on the Group’s cash position and facilities at 
31 December 2013 as well as maturities of the financial 
liabilities, can be found in note 38 to the financial statements. 
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are 
included in the Directors’ Report on pages 30 to 32. Details 
of potential contingent liabilities and potential cash outflows 
in relation to these liabilities can be found in note 34.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of Directors and 
signed on its behalf by
Robert Davison
Group Secretary 
26 March 2014
A Fair Review of the Business
continued
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   23
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements RECONCILIATION OF HEADLINE TO REPORTED NUMBERS
Reconciliation of Income Statement to headline results for the year ended 31 December 2013
The reconciliation below sets out the headline results of the group and the related adjustments to the reported Income 
Statement that the Directors consider necessary in order to provide an indication of the underlying trading performance.
Headline Adjustments
Statutory Income  
Statement
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Continuing operations
Revenue 298,485 329,681 701 14,553 299,186 344,234 
Cost of sales (128,971) (172,838) (86) (11,606) (129,057) (184,444)
Operating income 169,514 156,843 615 2,947 170,129 159,790 
Operating expenses (143,674) (131,051) (26,436) (23,846) (170,110) (154,897)
Deemed remuneration 7,800 11,273 
Loss/(profit) on business being discontinued 253 1,077
Amortisation of acquired intangibles and goodwill 
impairment 5,281 2,944
Costs of acquisitions and restructuring 12,487 5,605 
Operating profit 25,840 25,792 (25,821) (20,899) 19 4,893 
Other gains and losses - - (3,225) (1,677) (3,225) (1,677)
Share of results of associates 1,053 611 (361) (51) 692 560
Investment income 66 27 - - 66 27
Finance costs (1,637) (664) - - (1,637) (664)
Finance cost of deferred consideration (309) (325) - - (309) (325)
Finance cost of deemed remuneration - - (345) (270) (345) (270)
Profit before tax 25,013 25,441 (29,752) (22,897) (4,739) 2,544 
Tax (6,501) (7,090) 2,072 1,890 (4,429) (5,200)
Profit for the period from continuing operations 18,512 18,351 (27,680) (21,007) (9,168) (2,656)
Discontinued operations
Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations (3,428) 938 3,428 1,852 - 2,790 
Profit for the period 15,084 19,289 (24,252) (19,155) (9,168) 134 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 13,421 17,879 (24,252) (19,155) (10,831) (1,276)
Minority interest 1,663 1,410 - - 1,663 1,410 
15,084 19,289 (24,252) (19,155) (9,168) 134 
Earnings per share
From continuing and discontinued operations
Basic 15.65p 22.25p (12.63p) (1.59p)
Diluted 15.50p 21.86p (12.63p) (1.59p)
From continuing operations
Basic 19.65p 21.65p (12.63p) (4.47p)
Diluted 19.47p 21.27p (12.63p) (4.47p)
Headline figures are presented with the exit of the MMK – Good Relations Group GmbH and Conduit Marketing Limited 
businesses classed as discontinued operations.
A Fair Review of the Business
continued
24   Chime Communications plc Reconciliation of business segments to adjusted results for the year ended 31 December 2013
Headline Operating
Reported Segmental 
Note
Income Adjustments Operating Income
2013 
£’000
2021 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Sport & Entertainment 55,576 65,942 - - 55,576 65,942
Advertising and Marketing Services 65,601 54,255 206 58 65,807 54,313
Public Relations 20,819 18,186 409 2,889 21,228 21,075
Healthcare 18,451 10,852 - - 18,451 10,852
Insight & Engagement 9,067 7,608 - - 9,067 7,608
169,514 156,843 615 2,947 170,129 159,790
Headline Operating 
Profit Adjustments Operating Profit
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Sport & Entertainment 10,036 15,759 (19,537) (15,320) (9,501) 439
Advertising and Marketing Services 8,019 4,486 (3,782) (516) 4,237 3,970
Public Relations 2,087 1,887 (728) (1,085) 1,359 802
Healthcare 3,866 2,259 (1,267) (826) 2,599 1,433
Insight & Engagement 2,826 2,193 (159) (68) 2,667 2,125
26,834 26,584 (25,473) (17,815) 1,361 8,769
Unallocated corporate expenses (994) (792) (348) (3,084) (1,342) (3,876)
Operating profit 25,840 25,792 (25,821) (20,899) 19 4,893
Other gains and losses - - (3,225) (1,677) (3,225) (1,677)
Share of results of associates 1,053 611 (361) (51) 692 560
Investment income 66 27 - - 66 27
Finance costs (1,637) (664) - - (1,637) (664)
Finance cost of deferred consideration (309) (325) - - (309) (325)
Finance cost of deemed remuneration - - (345) (270) (345) (270)
Profit before tax 25,013 25,441 (29,752) (22,897) (4,739) 2,544
Headline Operating  
Profit Margin
Operating Profit 
Margin
2013 
%
2012 
%
2013 
%
2012 
%
Sport & Entertainment 18.1% 23.9% (17.1%) 0.7%
Advertising and Marketing Services 12.2% 8.3% 6.4% 7.3%
Public Relations 10.0% 10.4% 6.4% 3.8%
Healthcare 21.0% 20.8% 14.1% 13.2%
Insight & Engagement 31.2% 28.8% 29.4% 27.9%
15.8% 16.9% 0.8% 5.5%
Unallocated corporate expenses - - -
15.2% 16.4% 0.0% 3.1%
Headline figures are presented with the exit of the MMK – Good Relations Group GmbH and Conduit Marketing Limited 
businesses classed as discontinued operations.
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   25
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 
Our values 
Chime is a group of companies with a diverse range of 
cultures across its subsidiary businesses. The Group sets 
standards of behaviour which it expects the companies 
to meet irrespective of their market, their communication 
discipline, or their culture. Our core values are the foundation 
of our standards.
Our values are expressed and find meaning through the way 
we behave and the responsibilities we accept towards our 
shareholders, customers, colleagues, and the communities 
we serve:
We have adopted a new description of our values SCORE:
•	Social – Reinforcing our view that groups work where 
collaboration is second nature; where there is a mutual 
understanding, respect and trust.
•	Curious – Curiosity leads to continuous questioning, 
learning and understanding. Innovation drives our 
development into new markets, and via new ideas and 
new technologies.
•	Open – Open minds lead to better ideas and better 
relationships. An awareness of others and our operating 
environments will enhance our business; keep it agile and 
flexible to meet a diverse range of challenges.
•	Responsible – We should be a force for good in the way 
we do business. It is right to act ethically , responsibly and 
with consideration to all our stakeholders. It is also good 
business.
•	Entrepreneurial – A ‘can do’ approach that encourages 
innovation, high standards and drives new ventures.
Ethics
Chime companies manage reputations of brands, 
individuals, commercial and governing organisations. We 
recognise that reputations are made on how you act, not 
just what you say, but what you do, and how you do it. The 
Group sets standards of behaviour for companies to meet 
but does not prescribe the process of compliance allowing 
processes to be embedded within the many cultures found 
in the Group.
This ensures we meet all relevant laws, regulations and 
codes of practice issued by any government or appropriate 
regulator in the markets in which we operate. In addition, we 
recognise that integrity is essential to the maintenance of 
our own reputation in the marketplace. As part of our regular 
review process, issues of conduct are identified, reviewed 
and the Board is alerted as appropriate. 
Our Code of Conduct (see below) formalises the values, 
behaviour and ethical standards expected of Chime 
employees. 
Anti-corruption
Our Code of Conduct covers honest business practice and 
prohibits the offering, payment or solicitation of bribes or 
inducements.
The Group reviewed and developed additional formal 
anti-corruption measures following the enactment of the 
Bribery Act 2010 in the UK. Whilst we are a UK business 
our operations are international and our aim is to derive 
more of our income from outside of the UK. Our standards 
of anti-corruption measures apply to all of our businesses 
irrespective of where they are based or operate.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for maintaining 
appropriate and clear procedures within Chime’s operations 
to prevent corruption. We shall continue to use the Bribery 
Act as a minimum benchmark for ethical trading with, and on 
behalf of, our clients and partners. 
Where additional measures are required, by virtue of 
working in new markets, for clients who have specific 
requirements or , due to our operations engaging in new 
disciplines, the Group will adapt the chosen procedures to 
meet those needs as they arise.
The divisional and subsidiary management teams will 
continue to promote our standards and make staff aware of 
the consequences of non-compliance.
Code of Conduct
Chime’s Code of Conduct applies to all staff covering:
•	 client and company confidentiality;
•	 equal opportunities and the promotion of a meritocracy;
•	 a safe and civilised workplace;
•	 proper consideration of the sensitivities of potential 
audiences when publishing materials;
•	 honest business practice and integrity; and
•	 compliance with all laws and regulations.
The Code of Conduct remains under review in order that it 
may be adapted as market forces and legal requirements 
demand or as additional risks are identified. Whilst it is broad 
it is designed along with our guiding values to be embedded 
within our diverse range of operating cultures across our 
divisions and subsidiaries. Our risk management processes 
include testing of these areas and ensures that the Code of 
Conduct is communicated on the induction of new staff.
Our Performance as a Responsible and Sustainable Business Our Performance as a Responsible and Sustainable Business
26   Chime Communications plc Health and safety 
We are a people business and, due to the nature of our 
work, the majority of our staff are office based. However , our 
businesses Icon and McKenzie Clark include operations with 
a relatively small amount of manufacturing activity . We also 
now have a higher proportion of man days spent at events 
on location which brings an additional level and a variance 
in our health and safety risk profile. These developments 
have been acknowledged and addressed in our updated 
procedures. Our aim is to maximise the wellbeing of our 
people and those we interact with. As such, the risk, and 
historical incidence of accidents is low. 
This is an on-going process and the risk assessment of new 
developments or increases in activities with a higher level of 
risk, is embedded into our review process.
We take our duty of care seriously and have retained 
consultants, Safety Exchange Ltd, who provide not only 
guidance on identification and assessment of hazards but 
also practical support such as carrying out risk assessments 
for events and other activities.
Whistleblowing
The Group has a clear , written whistleblowing policy and 
procedure available to all staff regarding concerns of 
employees about ethical behaviour and noncompliance with 
our own standards, regulatory requirements and/or the law. 
The Group has a confidential helpline, run by an external 
third party, EXPOLINK, in order that staff can report any 
concerns or perceived shortcomings within our operations 
to an unbiased third party .
Conflicts of interest
The Group has a process for identifying potential conflicts 
of interests which may exist for executives, staff, clients and 
suppliers. We believe that this is an important part of our 
ethical stance and acting in a transparent manner .
Corporate responsibility
The Board believes that acting responsibly should underpin 
everything that we do. The Group is therefore committed to 
demonstrating the importance of this, not only in our work for 
clients, but in our own working practices.
We are in the business of managing brands and 
corporate reputations on behalf of clients and the Board 
acknowledges that being socially responsible is an 
important factor in the management of our own business.
We have a continuing and embedded programme to 
induct, brief and train our staff to ensure our efforts 
permeate throughout our Group. Our process design will 
always include assessment of our impacts but also our 
opportunities in socially responsible operations.
The Board and Audit Committee receive regular updates 
on our corporate responsibility initiatives and performance. 
The Chief Executive, Christopher Satterthwaite, personally 
oversees our continuing efforts in this important area of our 
business. Regular consideration is given to the significance 
of social, environmental and ethical (SEE) issues (as defined 
by the Association of British Insurers), and as part of our 
wider operational risk framework, identifies significant risks 
arising from these areas to short-term and long-term value. 
The Group also considers corporate responsibility to be 
an area of business opportunity . Our subsidiary, Corporate 
Citizenship, provides not only a focus for our investment in 
this field but provides the Group with specialist expertise.
Measurement of performance
The Company measures the performance of each of its 
businesses against a benchmark list of minimum corporate 
responsibility standards. These cover:
•	 promoting good environmental practices – both in our own 
operations and to our wider stakeholders;
•	 empowering community work – the promotion of 
volunteering and charity work by our staff and companies 
alike; and
•	 young people – via our internship, work experience and 
graduate schemes.
The standards are designed to be stretching and, as such, 
encourage continual improvement in these important areas. 
The minimum standards continue to be developed to ensure 
consistent improvement.
Performance against the standards is measured annually 
and the results are communicated to each operating 
business unit. Areas of potential improvement are addressed 
and successful best practice is identified and communicated 
across the Group.
We continue to report our corporate responsibility 
performance to our stakeholders via our website. We detail 
not only the principles of our approach, our targets and 
our performance but also give examples of the initiatives 
undertaken.
External recognition 
The Company continues to be listed on the FTSE4Good 
Index, which evaluates companies’ performance on a 
number of corporate responsibility and governance criteria 
(including anti-corruption measures, environmental impact, 
business ethics, board governance and risk identification). 
Chime is also a Carbon Trust Standard Bearer . The Standard 
recognises companies with a continuing commitment to 
improving environmental performance. Chime was the 400th 
company, and the first marketing communications group, to 
receive this important accreditation. Chime also holds a Big 
Tick award from Business in the Community (our fourth) for 
our environmental performance.
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   27
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements The environment
We do acknowledge that our customers, staff and 
other stakeholders have an interest in our impact on the 
environment and as such we have committed to monitor and 
improve our environmental performance where possible. 
The Group has continually reduced its carbon footprint since 
becoming Carbon Neutral in 2007. Our emissions data is 
shown below. We continue to consider and enhance the 
environmental impact of our businesses and are working 
closely with our major suppliers to ensure best practice is 
embedded in our wider operations. We regularly incorporate 
our environmental performance in business presentations as 
we believe this is an important consideration when evaluating 
reputation both for our companies and our clients alike.
Whilst Chime has expanded to a number of international 
locations, our operations remain predominantly in the UK. We 
deliver services to clients based on image, ideas, research, 
content and event execution. As such, our direct and indirect 
impact on the environment is minimal and considered 
relatively low-risk. Our international expansion has increased 
our use of air travel and we continue to monitor this. Our 
deployment of additional video conferencing facilities 
and improved collaboration tools will help to keep this to a 
minimum. Our revised travel policy and our consolidation 
to one travel management partner will also help us better 
understand and control our travel pattern and the resulting 
environmental impact from our continued growth. 
 
 
Environmental performance
Summary greenhouse gas emissions data for 2013. 
Global tonnes of CO
2
e
Emissions data for period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013
Scope 1 Gas 180 186 226 255
Fleet vehicles and refrigerant gas losses 33 60 48 35
Scope 2 Electricity 1,143 1,420 1,706 1,144
Scope 3 Air travel 1,953 1,621 1,476 2,040
Other business related travel 277 185 277 335
Waste and deliveries 25 44 43 36
Total emissions 3,611 3,524 3,779 3,844
Reductions year on year per full time employee 6% 12.2% 10.2% 4.6%
Carbon neutral
We have been carbon neutral since 2006, buying carbon 
offsets for those emissions that we could not avoid. However , 
we now have an embedded programme of carbon emission 
reductions, per full time employee, in a period of growth. 
We believe the investment in carbon offsets would be better 
made in further improving our carbon reductions, our work in 
the community and with young people. We intend to report 
to shareholders on this on the levels, type and projects 
assisted in our CSR Report in 2014.
Methodology for footprint calculation
We have reported on all of the emission sources required 
under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and 
Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013. These sources fall 
within our consolidated financial statement. We do not have 
responsibility for any emission sources that are not included 
in our consolidated statement.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting 
and Reporting Standard (revised edition) and emission 
factors from UK Government’s GHG Conversion Factors for 
Company Reporting 2014.
The emissions reported here for 2010 and 2011 have been 
verified by the Carbon Trust resulting in Chime holding the 
Carbon Trust Standard. We will undergo the same verification 
process for years 2012 and 2013 in the coming months.
Since 2010 Chime has reported performance using the 
previous year as a rolling baseline.
Our Performance as a Responsible and Sustainable Business
continued
28   Chime Communications plc Performance 
Our emissions have risen by 0.02% from 2012 but have fallen 
by 4.6% per full time employee. 
The slowing of our progress in 2013 can be attributed to 
the growth in our business travel (which in turn is driven 
by our international expansion) and energy consumption 
through the cold winter of 2012/13 affecting our energy use. 
However , our data collection process has improved, and 
this will enable a more detailed analysis of the source of 
emissions. In turn, this will help target reductions through 
2014 and beyond. Together with the high level of employee 
engagement we are confident of a further reduction in our 
emissions in the future. For 2014 we have set a target of a 
further 5% emissions per full time employee.
Human rights
Our policies and Code of Conduct set out clear standards 
of behaviour we expect from all our staff. Our values 
underpin our attitude to appropriate responsible and ethical 
interaction with all our stakeholders. Including our clients, 
suppliers and employees.
We adhere to the principles of the United Nations (UN) 
Global Compact which encourages companies to make 
human rights, labour standards, environmental responsibility 
and anti-corruption part of their business agenda.
We continue to engage with the communities in which we 
operate and where possible, contribute to their well-being.
We support the rights of all people as set out in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour 
Organisation’s Fundamental Conventions on Core Standards.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of 
the Board.
Robert Davison
Group Secretary 
26 March 2014
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   29
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements
Air travel 
53%
Other business travel 9%
Waste, refrigerants  
and deliveries 1%
Gas 
7%
Electricity 
30%
GHG emissions by indicator
CSM 
51%
VCCP 
21%
Chime 
10%
GRG 
9%
Open Health 4%
CIE 5%
GHG emissions by division The Directors present their annual report and the audited 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013. 
The Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 38 
to 52 forms part of this report.
Results and dividends
The Group’s income statement is set out on page 80 and 
shows a loss before tax for 2013 of £4,739,000 (2012: profit 
before tax of £2,544,000). The Directors recommend the 
payment of a final dividend of 5.14p per ordinary share 
to be paid on 13 June 2014 to those shareholders on the 
register at 23 May which together with the interim dividend 
paid on 11 October 2013 of 2.20p per share makes a total 
of 7.34p per share for the year (2012: 7.24p per share). 
Dividends are recognised in the accounts in the year they 
are paid, or in the case of a final dividend when approved 
by shareholders, such that the amount recognised in the 
2013 accounts comprises 2012’s final dividend and 2013’s 
interim dividend.
Dividends and other payments
The Company may by ordinary resolution from time to 
time declare dividends in accordance with the rights of 
the members subject to the provisions of the Companies 
Acts and provided that the dividend does not exceed the 
amount recommended by the Board of Directors. The Board 
may pay interim dividends in such amount as the Board 
considers justified by the financial position of the Company .
Directors and their interests
The names of the Directors are set out on pages 33 to 
34, which include brief biographical details. There were a 
number of changes to the Board during 2013. See page 39.
The Directors’ interests in the shares of Chime 
Communications plc together with details relating to 
Directors’ remuneration, share options, long-term incentives 
are given as part of the Report on Directors’ Remuneration.
Other than described in the Report on Directors’ 
Remuneration no Director of the Company has, or had 
during the year , any interests in the shares of other Group 
companies or in any transactions which were unusual in their 
nature or were significant to the Company’s business.
Directors’ indemnities
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under 
which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, 
to the extent permitted by law and Company’s articles of 
association, in respect of all losses arising out of, or in 
connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and 
responsibilities, as Directors of the Company or any of its 
subsidiaries. There is no agreement in place between the 
Company and its Directors and employees providing for 
compensation for loss of office of employment (whether 
through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise) 
that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Company has purchased and maintains Directors’ and 
Officers’ insurance cover against legal liabilities and costs 
for claims in connection with any act or omission by its 
Directors or Officers in the execution of their duties.
Donations
During the year the Group donated £27,562 (2012: £49,436) 
for charitable purposes.
The Group’s policy is not to make direct donations to 
support political parties. However , the nature of the Group’s 
work is such that to support its commercial activities, 
certain companies within the Group may need to attend or 
sponsor events which are organised by political parties or 
other political organisations, for which a charge is made. 
In addition, the Group may invite clients and prospective 
clients to attend events which fall within the meaning of the 
Companies Act 2006 provisions. The Companies Act 2006 
defines ‘political party’, ‘political organisations’, ‘political 
donation’ and ‘political expenditure’ widely and as a result, 
it is possible that political organisations may include bodies 
concerned with matters such as policy review and law 
reform, or the representation of the business community  
or sections of it, or the representation of other communities 
or special interest groups.
During the year and adopting this wider definition, the Group 
did not make any donations deemed to be political donations 
(2012: £5,500). The political donations in 2012 were made 
by the Bell Pottinger Businesses in the 6 months prior to the 
disposal on 30 June 2012.
In line with recommendations made by the Association 
of British Insurers, the Board intends to seek an annual 
authority to make donations or incur expenditure of a 
political nature.
Creditor payment terms
The Group’s policy on suppliers is that they will be paid in 
accordance with agreed terms and conditions of trade on  
a regular basis.
The number of days outstanding between receipt of invoices 
and date of payment, calculated by reference to the amount 
owed to trade creditors at the year-end as a proportion 
of the amounts invoiced by suppliers during the year , is 
disclosed in note 25.
Additional information for shareholders 
The following information, which summarises certain 
provisions of the current articles and association of Chime 
Communications plc (‘the Articles’) and applicable English 
law concerning companies (the Companies Act 1985 and 
the Companies Act 2006, together ‘the Companies Acts’), 
is required to be provided to shareholders as a result of the 
implementation of the European Directive on Takeover bids 
(2004/25/EC) into English Law. The current Articles were 
adopted by the Company at the Annual General Meeting 
Director’s Report
30   Chime Communications plc on 12 May 2010. This is a summary only and the relevant 
provisions of the Articles and the Companies Acts should be 
consulted if further information is required.
Share capital 
As at 31 December 2013 the Company’s issued share 
capital comprised 98,116,120 ordinary shares with a 
nominal value of 25 pence each. As at 25 March 2014, the 
Company’s issued share capital comprised 98,350,178 
ordinary shares. Details of the issued share capital, together 
with movements in the issued share capital during the year , 
are shown in note 31 of the accounts on page 122.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
The rights attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares, 
being the only share class of the Company , are set out in 
the Articles. Subject to the Companies Acts and applicable 
law, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions 
as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if no 
such resolution is in effect or such resolution does not make 
specific provision as the Board may determine. There is 
currently no such applicable resolution in effect.
Voting rights
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak 
at general meetings of the Company . On a show of hands 
every holder of ordinary shares who is present in person 
shall have one vote. On a poll every holder of ordinary 
shares present in person shall have one vote for every share 
of which he is the holder . Votes may be exercised in person 
or by proxy . Every notice of general meeting of the Company 
shall specify the deadlines in relation to the exercise of 
voting rights in respect of each resolution proposed at such 
meeting. Electronic and paper proxy appointments must be 
received no later than 48 hours before the general meeting, 
provided that at an adjournment of a meeting the proxy form 
must be received not later than 24 hours before the date of 
the adjourned meeting.
No holder of ordinary shares may attend or vote (whether in 
person or by proxy) nor exercise any other right conferred 
by being a holder of ordinary shares, unless all calls or 
other sums presently payable by the holder of such ordinary 
shares have been paid. A holder of ordinary shares may 
lose the entitlement to vote at a general meeting where that 
holder has failed to respond to a disclosure notice made by 
the Company under the Companies Acts with information 
concerning interests held in those shares.
Variation of rights
The Company may resolve by the consent of not less than 
75% in nominal value of the issued shares of the Company, 
and subject to the Companies Acts, to vary all or any of the 
rights attaching to the shares of the Company .
Restriction on transfer of shares
The Directors may refuse, provided such refusal does 
not prevent dealings in the shares of the Company from 
taking place in an open and proper manner or where the 
Company has a lien over such shares, to register a transfer 
of certificated shares which are not fully paid, or where the 
instrument of transfer has not been correctly stamped and 
lodged at the place designated by the Board accompanied 
by the certificate of shares and such other evidence of 
title as may be reasonably required to show the right of the 
transferor to make the transfer . The Directors may also refuse 
to register a transfer unless it is to a person who is: (i) not a 
minor; (ii) a bankrupt; (iii) is subject to an order made on the 
grounds of some mental or other incapacity that prevents 
management of their own affairs; (iv) the transfer is in favour 
of not more than four transferees; and (v) the instrument of 
transfer is in respect of one class of shares only .
Transfers of uncertificated shares of the Company may be 
made using the CREST system and the Directors may refuse 
a transfer of shares in accordance with the rules governing 
the operation of the CREST system.
Significant direct or indirect holdings of securities and 
special rights
The holdings of shares of the Company by the Directors are 
notified on page 71. Significant holdings in the shares of the 
Company are notified on page 32. Under the subscription 
agreement between the Company and WPP of 1997 , WPP 
has the right to appoint two non-executive directors of the 
Company provided it holds not less than 20% of the shares 
of the Company and the right to appoint one non-executive 
director provided it holds not less than 12.5% of the shares 
of the Company . There are no other holdings of shares of 
the Company in which there are special rights.
Acquisition of the Company’s own shares 
The Company may purchase its own shares in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of the Companies Acts, subject 
to the resolution of the shareholders. Shares purchased by 
the Company may be held in treasury or should, if not held 
in treasury, be cancelled immediately thus reducing the 
issued share capital of the Company .
At the end of the year , the Directors had authority, under 
the shareholders’ resolution issued on 15 May 2013, to 
purchase through the market 8,514,329 of the Company’s 
own ordinary shares at prices not less than 25p per ordinary 
share and not more than five per cent above the average of 
the middle market quotations as derived from the London 
Stock Exchange Daily Official List. This authority will last until 
the conclusion of the next AGM. Please refer to note 31 for 
all such purchases of shares during the year .
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   31
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Employee share trust
The Company operates a number of schemes in order to 
incentivise the employees of the Company .
Shares are held by a trustee in order to satisfy the 
entitlements of employees under the Group’s share schemes 
other than those that are satisfied by the issue of new 
shares. The shares held by the trustee do not have any 
special rights with regard to the control of the Company . 
The rights attaching to the shares held by the trustee are 
generally not exercisable by the relevant employees except 
where the interest is held beneficially by them. Further 
details on the share schemes may be found on pages 126  
and 129.
Amendment to the Articles
Amendment to the Articles may be made by special resolution  
of the Company in general meeting in accordance with the 
Companies Acts.
Powers of the Directors
The Directors of the Company may exercise all the powers 
of the Company as set out in the Articles including the 
power to borrow money , to mortgage or charge the assets 
and property of the Company , to issue securities and to give 
securities for any debt or liability of the Company or any third 
party . The Board of Directors exercising such powers shall 
manage the business of the Company . The Company may 
also authorise the Directors to issue, increase, consolidate, 
sub-divide and cancel shares by ordinary resolution and in 
accordance with the relevant Articles and legislation.
Substantial interests 
At 31 December 2013 the following interests in 3% or more 
of the issued share capital had been notified to the Company:
Number of 
ordinary 
shares
% of  
ordinary 
share  
capital
WPP Group plc 17,330,000 17.66
Fidelity 12,233,691 12.47
JPMorgan Asset Management 6,067,828 6.18
Aberforth Partners 5,531,708 5.64
Brandes Investment Partners 5,332,050 5.43
Legal & General Investment Manage-
ment
3,952,718
4.03
F&C Asset Management 3,634,731 3.70
Significant agreements 
The Company has a £90m multi-currency revolving credit 
facility with RBS and HSBC. The Directors confirm there are 
no other contractual or other arrangements between the 
Group and any person which are essential to the business 
of the company .
Employee engagement
We recognise that having a diverse, motivated and 
organised workforce that is engaged with the overall strategy 
of the Group enhances the delivery of our goals. 
We therefore place considerable value on the involvement 
of our employees and continue to keep them informed 
and, where appropriate, consult with them on matters 
affecting them as employees and on factors affecting the 
performance of the Group. This is achieved principally via 
the Group’s collaborative platform, ‘Bounce’, by e-mail and 
via formal and informal functions. In addition, our personal 
development programmes; the Saving Related Share Option 
Scheme and other incentive schemes encourage employees 
at all levels to contribute to the achievement of the Group’s 
short and long-term goals.
Diversity
Our Diversity Policy and related disclosures can be found  
on page 42 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions reporting
We have followed the UK Government’s guidance, published 
by Defra in September 2009, on how to measure and report 
greenhouse gas emissions. Information about greenhouse 
gas emissions by the Group and our wider impact on the 
environment can be found on page 28. 
Auditors
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of 
approval of this report confirms that:
•	 so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Group’s auditors are unaware; 
and
•	 the Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to 
have taken as a Director in order to make himself/herself 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish 
that the company’s auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies 
Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue  
in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will 
be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf  
of the Board.
Robert Davison
Group Secretary 
26 March 2014
Director’s Report
continued
32   Chime Communications plc The Board of Directors is responsible for overall strategy, 
acquisitions, resourcing and the consideration of significant 
financial matters. It meets four times annually and 
additionally as required. It reviews the strategic direction of 
the Group’s trading companies, their annual budgets and 
their progress towards achievement of agreed targets. It 
is also responsible for the integrity of financial information 
and ensuring the financial controls and the systems of 
identification and management of risk, both financial and 
non-financial, are robust and appropriate. The Board 
has three standing committees: the Audit Committee, the 
Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Lord Davies of Abersoch, CBE, aged 61 – Chairman 
Lord Davies is a Partner and Vice Chairman of Corsair 
Capital, a private equity firm specialising in financial 
services. He is a Director of Diageo plc and Chairman of 
Jack Wills Ltd. He has a wide range of interests, including 
being Chairman of the Royal Academy of Arts Trustees, and 
Chairman of the Garden Bridge Trust. He was Minister for 
Trade, Investment, Small Business and Infrastructure from 
January 2009 until May 2010.
Prior to that, he was Chairman and previously CEO, and 
served on the Board of Standard Chartered for over 
12 years.
He was awarded a CBE for his services to the financial 
sector and the community in Hong Kong in June 2002 where 
he served as a member of the HK Exchange fund for seven 
years. Lord Davies is also a JP in Hong Kong.
Lord Davies is married with two children and is a fluent 
Welsh speaker .
Christopher Satterthwaite, aged 57 – Chief Executive
Christopher began his commercial career as a graduate 
trainee at H.J Heinz. Since then, he has been part of three 
different kinds of marketing communication agencies: 
IMP (1981-1993), then the UK’s largest Sales Promotion 
Business; HHCL & Partners (1993-2000) – Campaign’s 
Advertising Agency of the Decade and; Bell Pottinger 
(2000-2002) – the UK’s leading Public Relations agency . 
He became Chief Executive of Chime in 2003.
He is Senior Independent Director of Centaur Media, 
Chairman of The Roundhouse, a Director of Business in the 
Community and a member of the Government’s Professional 
and Business Services Group. 
Mark Smith, aged 58 – Chief Operating Officer and 
Finance Director
Mark has been Finance Director of Chime since it was 
formed in 1989 and has been responsible for all corporate 
transactions and the financial control of the Company 
since that time. This included the flotation through a reverse 
takeover in 1994. He was appointed Chief Operating Officer 
in addition to Finance Director in January 2011.
Mark has been a Chartered Accountant since 1978, 
having qualified with Touche Ross & Co (now Deloitte LLP). 
Following two years as European Finance Director at RCA 
Records, he joined Good Relations Group plc in 1984 and 
became its Group Finance Director in 1985. In 1986 he 
became Finance Director of Lowe Bell Communications 
(now the Bell Pottinger) which formed the original base for 
Chime Communications. 
Rodger Hughes, aged 65 – Senior Non-Executive Director 
Rodger is a Chartered Accountant who was a partner 
in PricewaterhouseCoopers for 25 years, including four 
years as Managing Partner and seven years as Head of 
the Assurance Practice. He has had extensive experience 
advising a wide range of clients on business issues and 
was for some years the firm’s advertising industry leader . He 
was, until 2007, Auditor to the Duchy of Cornwall. Rodger 
is a non-executive member of the board of Simmons and 
Simmons, the international law firm and a Non-Executive 
Director of National Counties Building Society . He was a 
member of the Steering Board of Companies House until 
31 December 2010 and a Non-Executive Director of Friends 
Provident plc until its takeover in late 2009.
Clare Gilmartin, aged 38 – Non-Executive Director 
Clare was appointed as a Director of Chime on 
18 September 2013. 
Clare spent 10 years growing eBay in Europe, most recently 
responsible for the general management for eBay UK 
and Greater Europe. Her time in that role saw a period 
of exceptional growth for the brand and included the 
successful move to its mobile platforms. Prior to her ten 
years at eBay her career was in consultancy focused on 
consumer goods and retail.
Board of Directors
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   33
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Martin Glenn, aged 53 – Non-Executive Director 
Martin was appointed as a Director of Chime on 
22 August 2013. 
Martin is CEO of United Biscuits, a UK based business with 
a wide international presence. 
Martin was CEO of Iglo Frozen Food between 2006 and 
2013 and between 1992 and 2006 worked for Pepsico UK 
and Ireland where he was Company President. He was 
a Non-Executive Director of Leicester City Football Club 
between 2002 and 2006.
Vin Murria, aged 51 – Non-Executive Director 
Vin was appointed as a Director of Chime on 
22 August 2013. 
Vin has 25 years’ experience of working with private 
equity-backed and publicly listed companies focusing on 
the software sector . She is CEO of Advanced Computer 
Software Group Plc a £600m market capitalised company 
which she founded in August 2008. She was formerly 
Chief Executive Officer of Computer Software Group Plc, 
which she took private in April 2007, and subsequently 
undertook a merger and exit for £500m. Vin was named 
Cisco Technology Woman of the Year in 2012, and Quoted 
Company Entrepreneur of the Year in 2014. Her belief 
that education is the key to the future drives her charitable 
work in the PSFoundation which supports education for 
underprivileged children in remote areas of India. Vin is 
married with one child.
Christopher Sweetland, aged 59 – Non-Executive Director
Christopher began his career at KPMG in London where he 
qualified as an ACA in 1980 before moving to PepsiCo Inc 
where he worked overseas for 10 years, latterly as Regional 
CFO for Central Europe, based in Frankfurt. 
He joined WPP at the Group HQ in 1989 at the time of the 
Ogilvy & Mather acquisition, with responsibility for Finance 
for WPP’s European operations. After working as CFO at 
one of the operating divisions, he returned to WPP HQ in 
his current role as Deputy Group CFO in 2000. He works on 
investor relations, capital expenditure as well as managing 
the Group property portfolio.  
Robert Davison, aged 56 – Group Secretary 
Robert joined the Group in 1987 as Group Services 
Manager . He became Director of Administration in 1998 and 
Group Secretary in 2004. Prior to joining Chime he worked 
in the music industry for ten years, initially for PolyGram, 
including working on the launch of the CD format in Europe, 
and later with RCA Records establishing a pan-European 
manufacturing capability for 12 national trading companies. 
In his role as Secretary, Robert has been part of the team 
delivering the corporate transactions over the last ten 
years. He is additionally responsible for the management 
and compliance of the Group’s standards of governance 
and risk management; together with the coordination 
of resources such as legal, IT , property and people 
management. 
Robert is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries 
and Administrators.
During the year Catherine Biner Bradley (resigned 
30 April 2013), Richard Alston (resigned 31 December 2013) 
and Paul Richardson (resigned 26 March 2014) were 
also Directors.
Board of Directors
continued
34   Chime Communications plc The Executive Management Team draws its members from 
three areas of Group management: executive directors, 
senior executives each with management responsibility 
for an individual trading division, and representatives of 
the business development and commercial aspects of 
the Group’s operations. They meet monthly to discuss the 
implementation of strategy , progress made in meeting 
targets, resourcing and other group-wide issues and 
initiatives. The Team is responsible for the maintenance of 
and compliance to Group operating standards. The Team 
discuss individual divisional issues in addition to those 
common across the Group in order to ensure best practice 
and experience is pooled in meeting the Group’s goals.
Christopher Satterthwaite, aged 57
(For biographical details see page 33)
Mark Smith, aged 58
(For biographical details see page 33)
Crispin Beale, aged 41
Chief Executive, Chime Insight & Engagement
Crispin is one of the UK’s leading market research industry 
figures with a reputation for insightful and strategic vision, 
coupled with an entrepreneurial and dynamic approach 
to business. He has a proven track record of leveraging 
expertise from across a business to deliver best practice 
to clients, which is demonstrated in his consistent delivery 
of positive annual results. Crispin was promoted to CEO 
of Chime’s Insight & Engagement Group in 2010, having 
produced a record turnover for Facts International in his 
previous position as Chief Executive of that company .
Prior to working for Chime, Crispin held a number of 
influential and senior roles including Director of Marketing 
Services at Post Office Limited; Director of Insight, 
Intelligence and Analysis across Royal Mail Group; Head of 
Customer Satisfaction for BT plc and; heading Research and 
Intelligence at Dixons Stores Group (now DSGi plc).
Crispin is the UK representative for ESOMAR and is also 
serving his third term as an elected Board Member of the 
UK’s Market Research Society (MRS). Crispin has also 
become a member of the Civil Aviation Authorities (CAA) 
Consumer Panel, acting as a ‘critical friend’ to champion 
consumer’s interests.
Jackie Brock Doyle, OBE, aged 49
CEO, The Good Relations Group
Jackie is the former Director of Communications and Public 
Affairs, London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games. With 
more than 25 years in Communications and Marketing, she 
brings phenomenal expertise, energy and international 
experience and is recognised as one of the world’s leading 
communications practitioners. Jackie has designed and 
directed marketing, communication, media and sponsorship 
programmes for some of the world’s biggest brands and 
events, including Visa International, the Sydney 2000 
Olympic Games, the 2002 Manchester Commonwealth 
Games, Coca Cola, Samsung, Mars and most recently the 
London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
In 2012 she was voted PR Week’s ‘PR Professional of the 
Year’ for her work in delivering the London 2012 Olympic 
and Paralympic Games and together with her team, was 
awarded the ‘PR Week Campaign of the Year 2012’. In 2011 
she was voted Corporate Communications Professional 
of the year and she is also named in the Holmes Report’s 
‘Influence 100’, a list of the world’s most powerful and 
influential communications professionals. 
In 2014 Jackie was recognised by Debrett’s, in association 
with the Sunday Times, as one of Britain’s 500 most 
influential people.
Lord Coe CH, KBE, aged 57 
Executive Chairman, CSM Sport & Entertainment
Sebastian Coe was recently elected Chairman of the 
British Olympic Association. He was Chairman of the 
London Organising Committee for the Olympic Games and 
Paralympic Games, having previously been Chairman of the 
London 2012 bid company .
As an athlete Seb set 12 world records during his athletic 
career . At the Olympic Games in Moscow in 1980 he won 
Gold in the 1500m and Silver in the 800m, a feat which he 
repeated in Los Angeles in 1984.
He retired from competitive athletics in 1990 and became 
a Conservative MP and was Private Secretary to William 
Hague. In 2002 he was made a Peer . He received a 
Knighthood in the 2006 New Year’s Honours List. Seb is 
global advisor to Nike and also works with Chelsea Football 
Club as well as being a columnist for The Daily Telegraph.
Seb is Vice-President of the International Association of 
Athletic Federations (IAAF) and Chairman of the Sports 
Honours Committee. He received a Companion of Honour in 
the 2013 New Year’s Honours List.
Executive Management Team
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   35
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Adrian Coleman, aged 49
Group CEO, VCCP Partnership
Adrian started out as a client with Esso Petroleum before 
moving to the agency side. His strengths lie not only in 
cohesive and hard-hitting campaigns but also in client focus 
and business understanding – experience that means he 
understands the marketing mix. In 1986 Adrian began work 
at IMP , a below-the-line agency , and moved to HHCL in 1993. 
During his seven-year stint the agency was named ‘ Agency 
of the Decade’. In 2000 he became Chief Executive for AMD.
VCCP is now 12 years old and has grown from an agency of 
4 to over 600 people. Its head office is in London, and it also 
has offices in Berlin, Prague, Madrid and Sydney . VCCP was 
named agency of the year in 2013.
Sue Farr, aged 57
Director , Strategic and Business Development 
Sue leads Chime’s strategic & business development 
programme. 
Prior to Chime she was European Managing Director of 
Golin/Harris, the IPG owned PR group where she was 
responsible for their European network of offices and affiliates.
Much of Sue’s client career has been spent in broadcasting. 
Firstly as Director of Corporate Communications for Thames 
Television plc (1990-3) which saw her launch UK Gold, and 
subsequently as Director of Marketing and Communications 
for the BBC (1993-2000). She was responsible for marketing 
strategy, planning and implementation across all the BBC’s 
public service brands. She also created and launched 
Proms in the Park.
Sue is a Non-Executive Director of Millennium and 
Copthorne Hotels plc, Motivcom plc and Dairy Crest plc. 
Sue was voted Advertising Woman of the Year in 1997, a 
WACL Woman of Achievement in 1998 and awarded The 
Marketing Society’s ‘Grand Prix’ in 1998. She was awarded 
an Honorary Doctorate by the University of Bedfordshire 
in 2010 in recognition of her services to Marketing and 
Communications.
Jim Glover, aged 48
Chief Executive, CSM Sport & Entertainment
Jim began his career in the sports industry at IMG working 
in the golf client division.
In 1994 he set up Lighthouse Communications, one of the 
first independent agencies to offer the corporate world 
independent, impartial advice on sponsorship, which he 
built up over the next ten years to become one of the leading 
independent consulting agencies in Europe, responsible for 
creating successful sponsorship programmes for Heineken 
International, GlaxoSmithKline, and Land Rover .
In December 2005, he oversaw the successful acquisition 
of Lighthouse by Fast Track which in turn was acquired 
by Chime in 2007. Jim is now the Group CEO of the Sport 
& Entertainment division, CSM, with responsibility for 575 
people in 13 countries. He played reasonable rugby in the 
last century and is married with 4 children.
Nick Lamb, aged 54
Chairman, Chime Insight & Engagement
Nick has spent over 30 years in the UK Communications 
industry working for four different types of marketing 
communication agencies.
He joined Saatchi and Saatchi in 1979 as a trainee Account 
Executive and was present during the period in which it grew 
from relative obscurity to become the largest advertising 
agency in the world.
From there he was appointed a Director of one of the UK’s 
foremost Sales Promotion and Direct Marketing agencies 
MCB, before joining Crown Business Communications as 
Managing Director initially to lead Crown’s successful MBO. 
He oversaw the rapid expansion of Crown before becoming 
Chairman following its trade sale to Ferrovial.
In 2007 he joined forces with Chime leading to the joint 
acquisition of the market research company Facts 
International. In 2010 he was appointed Chairman of 
Chime’s Insight & Engagement Group, and in 2012 he 
orchestrated the highly successful launch of Watermelon 
Research, Chime’s digital research business.
Edward Leask, aged 66
Deputy Chairman of CSM Sport & Entertainment
Edward is a Chartered Accountant, who has concentrated 
on the sports and entertainment industry for many years, 
including involvement with the formation of Major League 
Soccer in the USA and more recently the development of 
Chime’s investment in sports marketing in China, South 
America and the USA.
Edward’s passion is sailing and still races competitively . 
He has represented Great Britain in the Soling Class in two 
Olympics and previously achieved a Silver medal in the 
Flying Dutchman World Championships.
Executive Management Team
continued
36   Chime Communications plc Kevin Murray, aged 59
Chairman, The Good Relations Group
Kevin specialises in the field of strategic communications, 
brand building and reputation management. He has years 
of experience advising and coaching chairmen and chief 
executives, and working with leadership teams. Kevin is  
also the author of two books on leadership communication, 
‘The Language of Leaders’ and ‘Communicate to Inspire –  
a guide for leaders’.
Previously he was Director of Communications for British 
Airways and, Director of Corporate Affairs for AEA 
Technology, the science and engineering business that was 
floated off from the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority . 
Prior to AEA, Kevin was Group Public Relations Manager 
for Bayer in the UK. He is also a former national newspaper 
journalist, magazine publisher and marketing director .
Jo Parker, aged 48 
Chief Executive, Teamspirit
Teamspirit is the specialist financial services agency 
which has been part of Chime for 14 years. As a founding 
partner of Teamspirit, Jo has always believed that specialist 
agencies best serve clients that work in complex markets. 
She is a passionate advocate of integrated marketing 
and has developed Teamspirit’s offering on this basis. Its 
services span marketing consultancy , brand development, 
advertising, marketing communications, and digital. Six 
years ago she set up Teamspirit Public Relations of which 
she is Chairman, which was the 2nd largest financial 
services PR agency in the UK, 2013. Teamspirit was also 
voted ‘Agency of the Year’ by the Financial Services Forum, 
2013. Jo also chairs Chime’s Youth Board, Chime Innovate.
Ian Priest, aged 50 
Group Chief Operating Officer , CSM Sport & Entertainment
Ian began his career at the leading below-the-line agency 
IMP , reaching board level before leaving to join HHCL and 
Partners in 1993, and becoming Managing Director in 2000. 
In January 2002, alongside his three partners, he founded 
VCCP which joined the Chime Group in 2005. 
Ian moved into the central team at Chime in 2010, heading 
up Chime Ventures before becoming Group COO of CSM 
in September 2013. He is President of the IPA, the industry 
body for advertising agencies. He is also a Non-Executive 
Director of a number of start-up businesses. He is married 
and has three children.
David Rowley, aged 51
Chief Executive, OPEN Health
David has spent his entire career in healthcare marketing 
and communications, dividing roles evenly between global 
pharmaceutical companies (GD Searle, Wyeth laboratories 
and Sandoz) and communications agencies serving the 
healthcare sector .
While David’s specific expertise lies in strategic brand 
planning, communication strategy and international brand 
development, it is his entrepreneurial flair that has defined 
the last 15 years of his career .
In 1995, having left Sandoz pharma as Cardiovascular 
Business Unit Director , David set up The Pharmaceutical 
Brand Consultancy – a boutique practice specialising in 
pan EU brand planning. Six years later , the practice had 
grown to a significant size and was acquired by the fledgling 
Huntsworth Group. Over the following eight years as CEO of 
Huntsworth Health, David led the growth of the healthcare 
practice to a size of approximately 500 staff, $100M revenue, 
and 16 offices around the world.
In 2010, David left Huntsworth to pursue his ambitions of 
starting a new practice. In January 2011, David joined forces 
with Chime to create OPEN Health, the first channel and 
discipline neutral communications business in the healthcare 
space. As CEO, David has led the successful start up of 
the company, which through both acquisition and organic 
growth, has grown to a team of over 190 people in its first 
three years.
Nick Taylor, aged 61 
Group Commercial Director
Nick began his commercial career as a graduate trainee in 
the aerospace and medical divisions of Smiths Industries 
plc. In 1979 he founded Harvard Public Relations, 
which went on to become one of Europe’s leading TMT 
consultancies with offices in London, Paris and Munich. 
Following Harvard’s acquisition by Chime in 2000, Nick 
joined the Executive Management Team and is involved in 
a number of Chime’s overseas businesses, Chime Ventures 
(investments and start ups) and Chime’s M&A activity . Nick 
is a Non-Executive Director of Merityre Specialists.
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   37
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements The Directors’ Statement on Corporate Governance is 
prepared in order to give guidance to both investors and our 
wider stakeholders on how Chime is managed. The Board is 
committed to providing investors with a clear picture of the 
steps we take to operate appropriately and effectively . In this 
report we attempt to convey our attitude to the provisions of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 (‘The Code’) in 
addition to our application of good management using the 
Code as our minimum standard.
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION
On joining Chime as Chairman at the end of 2012 I found 
Chime a well run business with a strong executive team. 
However , the Group had gone through a major change and 
the Board took the opportunity to establish a revised strategy 
with new key objectives. 
Firstly, the Board itself was restructured aligning both 
existing and new expertise with the stated aims of the 
Group. We took direction from comments from some of 
our shareholders on the membership of our Committees 
and revised the membership in December . In doing so 
we applied the principles of the Code on the role and 
effectiveness of the Board.
We have further formalised some of our processes and 
revised the workload of the Committees and the Executive 
Directors. We have made the changes to our priorities in our 
Board meetings and this has provided an additional focus. 
We have therefore re-tuned the Board, concentrating on 
strategy, performance and governance. Our new Directors 
have already made great contributions in the setting out of 
our future vision.
As a Group our approach to high standards of creative work, 
of ethical behaviour and the applied flexible attitude to our 
operating environments positions us well as a business to 
manage the reputations of others.
I believe we have further improved the strategic management 
of the business and have the right team at its head. The 
Board continues to provide strong guidance to the Company 
with the interests of our shareholders as our overriding goal.
The following report is constructed to inform both existing 
and potential stakeholders of our robust approach to matters 
of governance. We will continue to monitor and report on 
performance against best practice and as always welcome 
comments from shareholders on our current or additional 
disclosures.
Lord Davies of Abersoch
Chairman 
26 March 2014
The Company is committed to the principles of Corporate 
Governance contained in the 2012 UK Corporate Governance 
Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council (the ‘Code’ 
available at www.frc.org.uk) for which the Board is 
accountable to shareholders.
DIRECTORS AND THE BOARD
The role of the Board
The Board’s role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of 
the company within a framework of prudent and effective 
controls which enables the identification and management 
of risk. The Board is responsible for overall strategy and 
the use of resources (financial, human and technical) in the 
pursuit of its set goals.
The Board considers significant commitments and liabilities 
such as banking arrangements, property leases and the 
appointment of key staff etc. 
Where appropriate and necessary the Board delegates 
detailed oversight of certain matters to one of its three 
standing committees, Audit, Remuneration and Nominations.
The Board receives regular updates from the Executive 
Directors on shareholder views on issues faced by the 
Company . Updates issued by brokers, research agencies 
and fund managers referencing Chime are circulated in 
order that Directors gain an understanding of shareholder 
views.
The Board has agreed levels of delegated decision making 
to the Executive Directors. Limits are set by the Board 
in terms of financial commitments, acceptable liability 
and risk levels, the remuneration of staff and for smaller 
acquisitions. The Executive Directors report to the Board on 
progress against targets together with issues, initiatives and 
opportunities faced by the Group.
Board composition
The Board is of a size and has an appropriate level of 
experience and independence to discharge its duties and 
responsibilities on behalf of shareholders.
The Board comprises two Executive Directors and six Non-
Executive Directors (including the Non-Executive Chairman). 
The respective periods of appointment are shown in the 
following table:
Directors’ Statement on Corporate Governance
38   Chime Communications plc Director First appointed Last elected by shareholders Length of service at next AGM
Executive Directors
Chris Satterthwaite December 2002 May 2013 11 years 5 months
Mark Smith June 1994 May 2013 19 years 11 months
Non-Executive Directors
Lord Davies 
(1)
December 2012 May 2013 1 year 5 months
Rodger Hughes 
(2)
July 2007 May 2013 6 years 10 months
Clare Gilmartin September 2013 N/A 8 months
Martin Glenn August 2013 N/A 9 months
Vin Murria August 2013 N/A 9 months
Christopher Sweetland July 2012 May 2013 1 year 10 months
(1) 
Non-Executive Chairman
(2)
 Senior Independent Director
Board restructuring
During 2013 the Board was restructured, resulting in the 
departure of two directors and the arrival of three new 
individuals. Prior to the recruitment process Lord Davies and 
Rodger Hughes, the Senior Independent Director , undertook 
an evaluation of the skills and expertise required for the new 
appointments. Executive search consultancy , Zygos, was 
engaged to match candidates to the requirement, taking into 
account the needs of the Board diversity . Once appointed 
the new Directors received a full induction to the Company 
and the Board.
Additionally, Lord Davies, with the agreement of the Board, 
has restructured the meetings in order to increase and use 
time more efficiently . This has refocused the Board on the 
priorities of strategy , performance and governance; set 
information requirements for management and; given clarity 
to the processes for feedback, monitoring and enquiry . 
Communications between the Directors outside formal 
meetings has increased as a result.
The Board receives further regular updates from divisional 
heads who attend Board meetings to discuss progress, 
issues or corporate events.
The Board has reviewed and formalised the work to be 
delegated to the standing committees. Committee reports 
are given at each Board meeting.
As a result of this re-setting process the individual Directors 
have a closer relationship with the Chairman, improved 
communication with their fellow Board members, Executive 
management and, when support is required, the Group 
Secretary .
The changes for the Board are seen as beneficial by 
both the executive and non-executive groups. No issues 
of concern, failure or incapacity to perform the Board’s 
required duties were identified. As a result the Board 
believes it is constituted in a form that is fit for purpose and 
appropriately governed on behalf of shareholders.
Retirement and proposed re-election of Directors
In accordance with recognised best practice, the Board has 
a policy of presenting all Directors for re-election at each 
AGM. This is in line with the Code provisions for FTSE350 
companies and the Board believes governance is best 
served by doing so.
As Clare Gilmartin, Martin Glenn and Vin Murria were 
appointed by the Board as shown above; each will stand for 
election by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
The biographies of each Director are shown on pages 33  
to 34. 
Additionally, during the year , Catherine Biner Bradley served 
as a Director and as a member of the Audit Committee until 
her resignation on 30 April 2013. The Hon. Richard Alston 
served as a Director throughout 2013 and as a member of 
the Remuneration Committee until 5
 
December 2013. Richard 
resigned from the Board on 31 December 2013. Paul 
Richardson served as a Director for the full year , resigning 
on 26 March 2014 having previously resigned as a member 
of the Remuneration Committee on 5 December 2013.
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   39
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Board balance
The Board restructuring was undertaken to realign the 
membership with the needs and development of Chime’s 
revised strategy . We recognise that a Board of diverse skills, 
experience and gender will benefit the stewardship of the 
Company undertaken on behalf of shareholders. Our new 
Directors bring international, entrepreneurial and financial 
expertise, proven knowledge of the transfer of services from 
traditional to digital means and, most importantly , strong 
leadership. For further details see the Board evaluation 
section on pages 41 to 42.
Board effectiveness
The Board is responsible for overall Group strategy , 
acquisitions and the consideration of significant financial 
matters and major areas of risk. It reviews the strategic 
direction of the Group’s trading companies, their annual 
budgets and their progress towards achievement of those 
budgets. The Board is responsible for ensuring the integrity 
of financial information and that the financial controls and 
systems of risk management, both financial and nonfinancial 
are robust and appropriate. 
The Board is run as with an open and discussive culture 
and the involvement of all members is encouraged and 
facilitated. It is acknowledged by the Board that the 
independent views of our Non-Executive Directors enhance 
a balanced debate of agenda items.
Directors, meetings and attendance in 2013
Meetings scheduled 4
Meetings held 9
Attendance
Christopher Satterthwaite 9 of 9
Mark Smith 9 of 9
Lord Davies 9 of 9
Rodger Hughes 9 of 9
Clare Gilmartin (appointed 18/09/2013) 4 of 4
Martin Glenn (appointed 22/08/2013) 3 of 5
Vin Murria (appointed 22/08/2013) 5 of 5
Christopher Sweetland 8 of 9
Hon. Richard Alston (resigned 31/12/2013) 5 of 9
Catherine Biner Bradley (resigned 30/4/2013) 0 of 1
Paul Richardson (resigned 26/3/2013) 8 of 9
During the year a number of meetings in addition to those 
scheduled took place. These were required mainly to 
discuss the fundraising; the acquisition of JMI and the 
revised banking facility .
When absence from meetings is unavoidable, the views 
of the Director concerned are sought in advance then 
put to the meeting in order to facilitate a comprehensive 
discussion. Each Director continues to make themselves 
available to their fellow Directors and ensures he/she 
contributes to the major decisions before the Board.
Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent 
Director
The Chairman, Lord Davies, ensures that all Directors 
receive sufficient, accurate and timely information on 
financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings. 
He also ensures that his fellow Non-Executive Directors 
have access to any further supplementary information they 
require should they request it. Lord Davies is Chairman of 
the Nominations Committee.
The Chief Executive’s (Christopher Satterthwaite) 
responsibilities focus on co-ordinating the Group’s 
business and implementing its strategy . He is a member 
of the Executive Management Team which oversees the 
implementation of the strategy through the divisions; the 
allocation of resources the maintenance and compliance 
with standards and, progress towards targets.
Rodger Hughes is the Senior Independent Director and is 
also Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Information and support for Directors
New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction 
on joining the Board in order to further inform them of the 
Group’s activities and structure. All Directors are able to take 
independent professional advice at the Group’s expense in 
the furtherance of their duties, if necessary . The Company 
also makes appropriate training available to all existing 
Directors. 
Executive Directors are entitled to accept external 
appointments outside the Company and retain the fees from 
such appointments provided that the Chairman’s permission 
is sought and confirmed by the Board.
The Company purchases appropriate insurance in respect 
of legal action against its Directors and Officers.
Group Secretary 
The Group Secretary (Robert Davison) is responsible for 
ensuring that Board procedures are complied with. Under 
the guidance of the Chairman, the Secretary ensures that 
information flows between the Board, the Committees and 
to/from the Executive Directors. He facilitates inductions for 
new Directors and the provision of additional information 
where required and appropriate.
The Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on 
governance matters and is available to all Directors for 
advice and support as required. 
Directors’ Statement on Corporate Governance
continued
40   Chime Communications plc Non-Executive Directors
The Board considers its current Non-Executive Directors 
to be of sufficient calibre and number that their views 
be of sufficient weight that no individual or small group 
can dominate the Board’s decision making process. 
Their qualifications and experience is relevant to their 
directorships and in their appointments to the Committees 
where applicable.
The Non-Executive Directors’ terms and conditions of 
appointment are available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office on request and will be available, together 
with the Executive Directors’ service contracts, at the 
forthcoming AGM.
Independence of Non-Executive Directors
The Code states that it is for the Board to determine whether 
a Director is independent in character and judgement and 
consider whether there are any relationships or circumstances 
that are likely to affect a Director’s judgement.
In applying the Code, the Board has considered a number 
of factors in determining the independence of each 
Non-Executive Director and sets out the outcomes below.
Lord Davies
Chairman of the Board and the Nominations Committee
Lord Davies owns shares in Chime, 35,685 at 31 December 
2013. His holding originates from an obligation to purchase 
Chime shares to the value of £100,000 each year and to 
build a target investment of £300,000 by December 2016. 
This obligation forms part of his service contract.
Rodger Hughes
Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit 
and Remuneration Committees
Rodger owns shares in Chime, 27,053 at 31 December 2013. 
This holding is not seen as significant.
Non-Executive Directors’ shareholdings
The Board has assessed that the holdings of these Directors 
are not significant and believes such levels of investment 
should not raise questions regarding their independence. 
The Board considers that Directors owning shares in the 
Company directly aligns them with the interests of the 
shareholders. 
Chris Sweetland
Non-Executive Director
Chris is the WPP representative on the Board. He is Deputy 
Finance Director of WPP and a qualified ACA and, therefore 
has relevant and current skills and experience which 
contribute to the Board forum. Following concerns of Code 
compliance from shareholders Chris stepped down from his 
membership of the Audit Committee in December 2013.
WPP shareholding
The Board is conscious and attuned to the potential 
concerns of shareholders of WPP Board representation. 
Under the Subscription Agreement of 1997 and whilst 
WPP hold 20% or more of Chime’s share capital WPP may 
nominate two directors to the Board. On holding above 
12.5% they may nominate one director . Chris Sweetland has 
shown impartiality and independence in carrying out his 
duties on behalf of Chime shareholders. 
Board assessment
In the past, annual appraisals by external investor research 
analysts have recommended that shareholders vote against, 
or abstain from, any proposed re-election of Non-Executive 
Directors due to a perceived non-compliance with the Code 
regarding the criteria quoted above. The Code requires 
companies to ‘Comply or Explain’. We have continually and 
consistently met this requirement.
Our restructuring of the Board and the membership of the 
standing Committees took into account the views expressed 
by our shareholders together with issues of independence, 
diversity and, the requisite skills to deliver our new strategy .
We believe the holding of shares (within certain limits) 
or representation of a substantial shareholder by a Non-
Executive Director , does not evidence that a Director’s belief 
and commitment to the business is compromised. We believe 
that in the cases quoted above it aligns them directly with 
the interests of our shareholders. Following assessment the 
Board considers each of our Non-Executive Directors to be 
independent in both character and judgement. We believe 
there are no circumstances that give rise to question their 
respective judgements when considering matters put before 
the Board in 2013 or in the future.
Performance evaluation
The Board has a process of formal evaluation for individual 
Directors, the Committees and the processes utilised by the 
Board itself. This is undertaken by our internal audit resource 
and is monitored by the Chairman and the Audit Committee. 
The Board areas evaluated include:
•	 Board organisation, structure and membership;
•	 the conduct of meetings;
•	 the responsibilities of the Board;
•	 the performance of the Board and its processes;
•	 the information provided to Non-Executives; and
•	 the effectiveness of the management process from the 
Board to lower levels of management.
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   41
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements The Remuneration Committee evaluated the 2013 
performance of the Executive Directors in early 2014. 
This evaluation is described on pages 68 to 70 of the 
Remuneration Committee Report.
The performance evaluations of the individual Executive 
Directors for 2013 did not identify any areas of concern.
Non-Executive Directors – performance evaluation
The Executive Directors, in consultation with the Chairman, 
are responsible for the assessment of the performance of 
the Non-Executive Directors. The Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director is also consulted during this process 
except for evaluation of his own performance. 
The process of performance evaluation is designed 
to consider all elements of performance including any 
perceived shortcomings, training or development needs and 
unforeseen tasks and responsibilities that have arisen during 
the year .
Whilst no KPIs are set for individual Non-Executive Directors, 
the time, effort and application applied in the performance 
of their duties for the Board and, where applicable, 
Committees is taken into account. 
The Board, the Committees and the management process 
– performance evaluation
In line with the requirements of the Code, the Company 
additionally carries out annual performance evaluations 
of the Board, the Committees and the processes utilised 
by each forum. The aim of the evaluation is to recognise 
the strengths and address any weaknesses and consider 
improvements to the management process. The evaluation is 
designed to ensure that the Board meets its objectives and 
that effectiveness is maximised. 
This evaluation addresses such issues as:
•	 the frequency of meetings and the business transacted;
•	 the workload of each forum;
•	 the timing, level of detail and appropriateness of 
information put before meetings;
•	 the reporting process from Committees to the Board and 
delegation process itself;
•	 the levels of expertise available within the membership of 
the Committees and the need for , selection of and the use 
of external consultants; and
•	 the effectiveness of internal controls following the review 
and report of the Audit Committee.
Diversity report
Policy statement
The Board believes that diversity is the soul of creativity . 
It aids our operations and delivers innovative and relevant 
solutions to our business offer . We are in a creative industry . 
We originate and develop ideas, campaigns and events on 
behalf of our clients who in turn must meet the challenge of 
a diverse customer base.
We acknowledge that diversity within our staff population is 
important, not only by gender , but nationality, ethnic origin 
and culture; age; marital status; sexual orientation and other 
criteria. Our equal opportunities policy reflects that belief.
We have not to date measured such categories within our 
workforce, preferring to promote an open and inclusive 
environment. However , we will keep the option to monitor 
under review.
Regulation and legislation has brought requirements 
on gender reporting. Our own Chairman, Lord Davies, 
via his work ‘Women on Boards’ on behalf of the UK 
government, has successfully raised the profile and driven 
the development of best practice for increased gender 
diversity at senior levels within business. We have adopted 
the recommendations he set out for FTSE250 and FTSE350 
companies as these embody best practice.
We have therefore reported the composition of our executive 
forums by gender below, including for context, our overall 
staff population and our Executive Management Team. 
We shall report this annually going forward together with 
developments and reasons for any change. We shall publish 
targets and report on our progress. 
The Nominations Committee is charged with selecting 
appropriate candidates for senior posts and makes due 
regard to the need for diversity within our executive teams. 
We shall draw up recruitment criteria which will include Lord 
Davies’ recommendations.
Gender diversity – executive forums
At the beginning of 2012 we had a single female Non-
Executive Director on a Board totalling nine members. Lord 
Davies was appointed Chairman in December 2012 and the 
Board was restructured during 2013.
During the year both Catherine Biner Bradley and Richard 
Alston left the Board and Clare Gilmartin, Martin Glenn and 
Vin Murria were appointed.
Directors’ Statement on Corporate Governance
continued
42   Chime Communications plc Women on our executive forums
1 January 
2012
31 December 
2013
Board Directors 1 of 9 2 of 9
Non-Executive Directors 1 of 4 2 of 7
Audit Committee 1 of 3 1 of 3
Remuneration Committee 0 of 3 1 of 3
Nominations Committee 0 of 5 2 of 5
Executive Management Team 2 of 15 3 of 14
We have used January 2012 as our comparator in order to 
reflect the major change in the structure of the Group that 
took place during that year; with the sale of the Bell Pottinger 
businesses and the departure of our then Executive 
Chairman and Deputy Chairman.
Our target for women on our Board by 2015 is 25%, in line 
with Lord Davies’ recommendation for FTSE250 companies. 
We shall mirror that target in our Executive Management Team.
On 31 December 2013 our total number of permanent 
employees was 1,848 (2012: 1,732). This included 969 
female staff (2012: 899). The increase in headcount was 
therefore 40% male and 60% female.
Chime continues to promote participation and encourage the 
aspirations of our female staff. In 2013 we set up ‘Grapevine’, 
a women’s group that meets regularly to share business 
ideas, encourage networking and personal development. 
This will help empower our female staff at all levels.
We have a Youth Board called ‘Chime Innovate’, a group of 
young members of staff tasked with innovation, addressing 
business issues. Membership is open to all applicants under 
the age of 28. Chime Innovate is facilitated by Jo Parker 
and Amelia Torode two of our top female executives. The 
membership is 50% female.
Our Graduate Scheme in 2013/4 has 16 members (2012/3: 
13) of which 12 are female (2012/3: 9). Of our graduate 
intake in 2012/3, 9 were offered permanent posts within 
Chime and/or our associates. Five of those were female.
We also have an open networking group called ‘Curious’ for 
our younger staff who meet for regular networking events. 
These events often include guest speakers and we extend 
invitations to our clients.
Employment of disabled persons
The Group gives full and fair consideration to all applications 
for employment made by disabled persons, having regard 
to their particular aptitudes and abilities. Opportunities 
for training, career development and promotion do not 
disadvantage these employees or any members of staff  
who become disabled during their time with us. 
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   43
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
Audit Committee Chairman’s Statement
This is the first formal Audit Committee Report to 
shareholders and I hope that you will find it helpful in 
understanding what we do.
Our role, on behalf of the Board, involves providing 
assurance that the stewardship of the Company and the 
standards of governance adhered to are appropriate and 
that our financial statements provide a fair and balanced 
view of the Company’s financial position.
The membership of the Committee was refreshed towards 
the end of 2013 with Vin Murria and Martin Glenn joining 
us and they are already bringing different and helpful 
perspectives to our deliberations. Catherine Biner Bradley 
and Chris Sweetland served on the Committee up to April 
and December respectively . Both made a full and valuable 
contribution and I am personally very grateful to them for 
their efforts.
Chime has been changing and that has been reflected 
in the activities of the Committee. As set out by the 
Chairman and Chief Executive in their introductions, the 
Group has been growing both organically and through 
acquisition, in particular to build the sports marketing 
business internationally .This presents new risks and 
control challenges as the spread of the Group widens both 
geographically and by nature of business . 
The Committee has responded by ensuring that:
•	 proper due diligence is conducted on acquisitions;
•	 the Internal Audit work programme covers all group 
companies at least once a year and focuses on areas of 
higher risk;
•	 the risk management framework and processes continue 
to be developed;
•	 significant management attention is being paid to 
operations in Brazil , given the revenues anticipated from 
the FIFA World Cup this year and the Olympics in 2016;
•	 the external audit is effective (see below);
•	 accounting policies for revenue recognition on longer term 
contracts are appropriate;
•	 the Group continues to comply with local laws and 
regulations; and
•	 finance function resources are adequate.
Headline earnings
We are conscious of the major difference between 
headline profits and the IFRS loss this year . While IFRS 
have brought about greater consistency in reporting by 
companies internationally (although still not in the USA) 
they have become increasingly technical and complex. 
The fact that the vast majority of UK listed companies now 
additionally publish headline earnings figures and the 
general acceptance of these by the analyst community 
demonstrates that IFRS profit numbers alone often do not 
provide sufficient information on trading performance . 
I also draw your attention to the comments on deemed 
remuneration, one of our adjusting items, in the Significant 
Issues section of this report.
The Committee has scrutinised the adjustments made by 
management and discussed them with the auditors and is 
satisfied that they are legitimate and helpful to shareholders’ 
understanding of the underlying trading performance. 
We have set out below how the Committee has discharged 
its responsibilities during the year , explained the more 
significant accounting issues we considered and expanded 
on how we satisfied ourselves that the Group audit is 
effective.
If shareholders have further questions on the Audit 
Committee’s work then I shall be pleased to answer them at 
the AGM.
Rodger Hughes
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
26 March 2014
Directors’ Statement on Corporate Governance
continued
44   Chime Communications plc Membership, meetings and attendance in 2013
Meetings scheduled 4
Meetings held 4
Attendance
Rodger Hughes 
(1)
4 of 4
Martin Glenn (appointed 05/12/2013) 1 of 1
Vin Murria (appointed 05/12/2013) 1 of 1
Christopher Sweetland (resigned 05/12/2013) 3 of 3
Catherine Biner Bradley 
(2)
0 of 1
(1)
 Chairman of Committee
(2)
 Catherine Biner Bradley resigned as a Director on 30 April 2013.
The external auditors were present at each of the meetings 
and may request a meeting without management present if 
necessary .
Membership of the Committee
Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman 
of the Committee and the Group Chairman (who is not 
a member of the Committee) at regular intervals and 
where appropriate they recommend new appointments to 
the Nominations Committee for assessment and onward 
recommendation to the Board.
The Committee is comprised of three independent Non-
Executive Directors. Two members constitute a quorum. 
The Audit Committee is required to include one financially 
qualified member (as recognised by the Consultative 
Committee of Accountancy Bodies). Currently the Audit 
Committee Chairman, Rodger Hughes, meets that 
requirement.
The role of the Audit Committee 
The powers, duties and responsibilities delegated 
to the Committee by the Board are formalised in the 
Committee’s Terms of Reference which are available at 
www.chimeplc.com, and include all matters indicated by 
Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code. 
The report below sets out the work of the Committee 
during 2013.
The Audit Committee in 2013 
In 2013 the Committee met on four occasions during the 
year discharging its responsibilities through the following 
activities:
•	 reviewed the Group’s draft preliminary and interim results 
statements prior to Board approval and reviewed and 
discussed the external auditors’ detailed reports;
•	 reviewed the Group’s interim management statements and 
pre-close period updates prior to their release;
•	 scrutinised future financial projections and challenged the 
assumptions made, reporting to the Board that the going 
concern basis remains fully justified and that gearing was 
being prudently managed;
•	 considered the response to new and revised legislation 
and regulatory requirements;
•	 considered the appropriateness of the Group’s accounting 
policies;
•	 reviewed regularly the impact on the Group’s financial 
statements of matters such as the adoption of new 
International Financial Reporting Standards;
•	 considered the rotation of the audit partner and 
additionally following a formal review, recommended to 
the full Board, which adopted the recommendation, the 
reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the Group’s external 
auditors;
•	 assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process 
(see below) focussing on key risks, decisions on 
materiality and the proposed scope of work;
•	 discussed with the external auditors’ their plan for the 
audit of the Group’s accounts, including key risks, 
materiality and the scope of work;
•	 confirmed auditor independence and the proposed audit 
fee and approved the terms of engagement for the audit;
•	 reviewed the Group’s internal financial controls and risk 
management system and reported to the Board on the 
effectiveness of both; 
•	 approved the internal audit plan and the results of their work;
•	 gave oversight to the Group whistleblowing policy and the 
use of the confidential helpline;
•	 assessed the Group’s progress on corporate responsibility 
issues; and
•	 evaluated the Committee’s own performance and 
concluded that it remained effective.
The Committee has reviewed this Annual Report and 
reported to the Board that it considers it to be fair , balanced 
and understandable. In doing so it considered whether:
•	 the overall impression given is consistent with the events 
of the year and the financial consequences thereof; 
•	 the linkage between philosophy, strategy, key performance 
indicators and executive remuneration is clear; and
•	 the information given enables shareholders to assess the 
Company’s business model, strategy and performance.
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   45
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Significant financial statement reporting issues
The more significant issues considered by the Committee and how they were addressed are as follows:
Issue How Addressed
Goodwill impairment
Because the Group has expanded through a series of 
acquisitions of businesses with few tangible assets, goodwill 
at £228m is the largest number in the Group’s accounts. The 
potential impairment of its component parts needs to be 
carefully considered each year .
An analysis of the balance sheet goodwill by entity was 
compared with the current assessment of the value of 
goodwill based on future projections. The assumptions 
used in management’s projections were challenged and the 
conclusions reached by management and the auditors were 
discussed. Particular attention was paid to those entities 
(cash generating units) where there is lower headroom in 
the impairment test calculations. As a result the Committee 
was satisfied with the carrying value of goodwill in the Group 
balance sheet and the charge for impairment in the income 
statement.
Revenue recognition
As the Group has expanded the mix of revenues has 
changed, with greater judgement being required in 
accounting for revenues under longer term commercial 
arrangements.
Questioned management on the basis of accounting 
for longer term contracts, ensured that the scope of the 
auditor’s work adequately covered this area and discussed 
their work, and conclusions with them. Obtained satisfaction 
that judgements made were reasonable.
Accounting for acquisitions
Given the size of the acquisitions made during the year , 
it is particularly important that they have been correctly 
accounted for in accordance with IFRS3.
Questioned management on their approach to accounting 
for acquisitions and the consequent accounting entries. 
Discussed with the auditors their work in this area, in 
particular as regards the identification of intangible 
assets, accounting for deferred consideration or deemed 
remuneration and expensing of costs.
deemed remuneration
In order to comply with the IFRS Interpretations Committee’s 
agenda decision (published in January 2013) on the 
interpretation of paragraph B55 of IFRS3, regarding 
contingent payments to selling shareholders who continue 
as employees, the Group changed its accounting policy for 
the 2012 accounts. However , members of the Committee 
remain concerned that this results in capital payments for the 
acquisitions of a business being charged as an operating 
expense, which does not properly reflect the underlying 
economic substance. It might therefore be seen to conflict 
with a true and fair view.
The Committee debated this matter at some length and 
concluded:
•	 the financial statements as a whole may still be regarded 
as giving a true and fair view , being compliant with IFRS 
and consistent with general practice;
•	 to assess their understanding the attention of readers of 
the financial statements should be drawn to this item by 
separate disclosure within operating expenses and a note 
of the Board’s view in the accounting policy note;
•	 the Chairman of the Committee should write on behalf of 
the Board to the IASB as part of their recent request for 
comments on IFRS3, setting out our concerns and seeking 
a change to the Standard.
Directors’ Statement on Corporate Governance
continued
46   Chime Communications plc Assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process
The Committee satisfied itself as to the effectiveness of the 
external audit process as follows:
The audit firm
The FRC overall report on the results of the Annual Audit 
Quality Reviews of Audit Firms and the separate report on 
the results for our auditors, Deloitte, were reviewed to ensure 
that no issues of concern arose that might have a bearing on 
the audit appointment . No such issues arose. Subsequently 
Deloitte demonstrated how areas identified for particular 
attention in the AQR report had been addressed in their audit.
The audit partner
As part of the normal rotation process a new audit partner 
was proposed for the 2013 audit. The new partner was 
invited to formally re-pitch to the Audit Committee for the 
work, enabling it to satisfy itself that he has the appropriate 
experience and understanding for the role. Following 
completion of the audit the Committee assessed the 
partner’s performance against expectations.
The audit team
Continuity of personnel was reviewed and found satisfactory . 
This was considered particularly important this year because 
of the discontinuity of audit partner . To supplement the 
Committee’s necessarily limited exposure to junior members 
of the audit team feedback was sought from Group Finance 
Managers on the performance of the external audit team, in 
particular as regards their understanding of the business, 
technical competence and attitude. In providing this 
feedback, Group Finance in turn obtained input from the 
divisional Finance Directors.
The audit plan
The scope of the audit, including coverage by individual 
company, was reviewed and debated by the Committee 
with the auditors prior to work being commenced. This was 
done in the light of both the auditors’ and the Committee’s 
assessment of the key risks. The auditors explained the 
materiality thresholds used in determining their audit scope 
and the Committee confirmed that these were in accordance 
with normal audit practice.
The generality of the Audit Plan document was assessed 
and found satisfactory . Arrangements to identify , report and 
manage conflicts of interest were satisfactory .
The Committee also considered whether it wished to 
commission further audit work to be conducted beyond that 
which the auditors considered necessary for the expression 
of their opinions on the group and subsidiary accounts and 
concluded that, in the light of the Group Internal Audit Plan, 
it did not.
The audit work
The Committee requested and received feedback from 
Financial management on the conduct of the audit at Group, 
divisional or subsidiary levels. No matters arose requiring 
attention by the Committee.
Matters arising from the audit
These were promptly and effectively communicated 
and addressed as appropriate. The robustness and 
perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling of the key 
accounting and audit judgements were seen as appropriate. 
The detailed report received from the auditors following 
completion of their work gave comfort as to the diligence of 
execution of that work.
Added value
In appraising the overall performance of the auditors the 
Committee considered whether they had provided useful 
feedback arising from their work additional to their statutory 
responsibilities.
Independence 
In addition to receiving the auditors’ formal confirmation 
of their independence the Committee considered whether 
this was demonstrated through their general approach and 
attitude and were satisfied that this was the case.
Non-audit services
It was debated and confirmed that Group policy on non-
audit services provided by the audit firm (and set out below) 
remains appropriate and was complied with. Fees additional 
to those for the statutory audit were particularly high this 
year due to the work required on a major acquisition, being 
due diligence investigations and work on the Circular to 
shareholders. The Committee considered the auditors 
to be in the best position to conduct this work, given the 
timescales and knowledge required. In the view of the 
Committee it did not compromise the independence of the 
audit of the financial statements. 
Audit fees
The level of audit fees was reviewed to ensure that it was 
sufficient for the work necessary but not excessive. In 
particular , changes in fees from the previous year were 
considered in relation to changes in the group and in risk 
assessments.
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   47
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Audit tendering
The Committee considered whether the audit appointment 
should be put out to tender , in particular having regard to the 
proposed rotation of audit partner . In doing so it considered 
both the performance of the current auditors and the likely 
costs and potential benefits of change.
It was decided to follow a process whereby Deloitte was 
invited to re-pitch for the work on a sole basis on the 
understanding that if the Committee was not satisfied, other 
firms would then also be invited to tender . In the event the 
Committee was satisfied by Deloitte’s proposal and did not 
proceed to the open tender stage.
Going forward the Committee will continue to keep the audit 
appointment under review, having regard to the new UK and 
EU requirements for audit tendering.
Following the above the Audit Committee has recommended 
to the Board that Deloitte LLP is re-appointed.
Group policy on the provision of non-audit services by 
the Auditor
The Committee has an established policy for the 
commissioning of non-audit work from the Group’s auditors.
The external auditor is excluded from providing non-audit 
services to Chime where the objectives of such assignments 
are inconsistent with the objectives of the audit. Additionally, 
no work is awarded to the auditors which would result in an 
element of self-review either during the work or via the  
audit itself.
The Committee has agreed fee limits (both by assignment 
and aggregated for the year) with management where 
work may be awarded without reference to the Committee. 
Assignments in excess of the agreed limits require prior 
approval of the Committee.
The Committee receives an update on non-audit work 
awarded and fee levels regularly .
Internal audit
The Committee has oversight over the Group’s internal 
audit function. It agrees an annual audit plan and receives 
updates directly from the internal audit manager at each 
meeting. The Committee monitors the level of resources 
required to meet the demands of the growth in the Group.
The Audit Committee report is approved on behalf of the 
Audit Committee.
Rodger Hughes
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
26 March 2014
Directors’ Statement on Corporate Governance
continued
48   Chime Communications plc REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee’s Statement 
can be found on page 54. This section forms part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Membership, meetings and attendance in 2013
Meetings scheduled 4
Meetings held 4
Attendance
Rodger Hughes 
(1)
4 of 4
Lord Davies (appointed 05/12/2013) 1 of 1
Clare Gilmartin (appointed 05/12/2013) 1 of 1
Hon. Richard Alston (resigned 05/12/2013) 
(2)
3 of 3
Paul Richardson (resigned 26/03/2014) 
(3)
2 of 3
(1)
 Chairman of Committee
(2)
 Resigned as a Director on 31 December 2013
(3)
 Resigned as a Director on 26 March 2014
When required the Chief Executive, Christopher 
Satterthwaite, and the Chief Operating Officer and Finance 
Director , Mark Smith, attend meetings but are not members. 
During the year Lord Davies attended two meetings as 
an advisor prior to being appointed to the Committee. 
No Director is in attendance when their own personal 
remuneration is discussed.
Membership of the Committee
Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman 
of the Committee and the Group Chairman at regular 
intervals and where appropriate they recommend new 
appointments to the Nominations Committee for assessment 
and onward recommendation to the Board. The Committee 
is comprised of three independent Non-Executive Directors, 
which is the minimum membership required under the Terms 
of Reference. Two members constitute a quorum. 
Summary of the role of the Remuneration Committee
Rodger Hughes is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 
The Committee measures the performance of the 
Executive Directors and of other key members of the 
senior management as a prelude to recommending their 
annual remuneration. Performance is measured against 
key performance indicators set by the Committee at the 
beginning of the year (for further details see page 68).
The Committee is also responsible for overseeing the 
operation and use of the Company’s share based incentive 
schemes. The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors 
is recommended by the Chairman and Chief Executive and 
takes account of the time spent on Board and Committee 
matters. Final decisions are made by the Board but no 
Director takes part in any discussion regarding his or her 
own remuneration.
The powers, role and responsibilities delegated to the 
Committee by the Board are formalised in the Committee 
terms of reference (available at www.chimeplc.com)
The Remuneration Committee in 2013
The Committee met on four occasions during the year , 
discharging its responsibilities through the following 
activities: 
•	 undertook a review of executive remuneration including 
consultating with shareholders and drafting of proposals 
to be put before the 2013 AGM.
•	 agreed the level of bonus awards to the Executive 
Directors and Company Secretary for 2012;
•	 reviewed and approved the maturity of the 2010 grant of 
the Deferred Share Plan;
•	 agreed the maturity of the 2008 grant of the Savings 
Related Share Option Scheme;
•	 agreed the 2013 grant of options under the Savings 
Related Share Option Scheme;
•	 considered and agreed the levels of participation and 
performance targets of a grant of award under the 2010 
Co-Investment Plan;
•	 considered and agreed the key performance indicators for 
each of the Executive Directors and Company Secretary 
for 2013;
•	 agreed Executive Directors’ and Company Secretary’s 
salary levels for 2013;
•	 considered appropriate salary levels for new appointees to 
the Board and made recommendations to the Nominations 
Committee;
•	 considered proposals for incentive schemes for senior 
management of the Company;
•	 reviewed details of the remuneration of higher paid 
employees seeking justification for any significant 
changes; and
•	 reappointed Towers Watson as executive remuneration 
consultants to the Company .
During the year the Committee took additional objective and 
independent advice on the Remuneration Review and 
the proposals put to the shareholders at the 2013 AGM 
from Deloitte.
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   49
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
Membership, meetings and attendance in 2013
Meetings scheduled 1
Meetings held 
(1)
2
Attendance
Lord Davies 
(2)
2 of 2
Rodger Hughes 
(3)
2 of 2
Clare Gilmartin (appointed 05/12/2013) 0 of 2
Martin Glenn (appointed 05/12/2013) 0 of 2
Vin Murria (appointed 05/12/2013) 0 of 2
Hon. Richard Alston 
(4) 
(resigned 05/12/2013) 2 of 2
Paul Richardson (resigned 05/12/2013) 
(5)
2 of 2
(1)
  The additional meeting was required as the Committee considered the 
requirement, selection, recommended appointment and contractual terms 
for new Non-Executive Directors to the Board.
(2)
 Chairman from 5 December 2013.
(3)
 Chairman 1 January to 5 December 2013.
(4)
 Resigned as a Director 31 December 2013.
(5)
 Resigned as a Director 26 March 2014
Summary of the Role of the Nominations Committee
The Committee is responsible for the formal and transparent 
procedure for the appointment of Directors to the Board. 
It leads the process of selection for both new Board 
appointments and membership of Committees.
The Committee reviews the structure, composition and size 
of the Board. It gives consideration to the appropriate level 
and mix of skills and expertise and applies other criteria 
such as independence, diversity and level of commitment to 
its recommendations.
The Committee considers any executive vacancies and 
appointments with due consideration to succession planning 
and evaluates terms of applicable service contracts. 
Where appropriate it consults the Remuneration Committee 
members and our external remuneration consultants, Towers 
Watson on appropriate levels of pay .
The powers, role and responsibilities delegated to the 
Committee by the Board are formalised in the Committee’s 
Terms of Reference (available at www.chimeplc.com).
Appointment process
The Board has a process for Board and senior staff 
appointments. It takes into account the reason for 
any appointment, the personal attributes, underlying 
competencies and relevant skills required together with 
governance issues such as diversity and independence.
The Board does not believe that the mandated use of 
executive search and selection consultants is necessarily 
appropriate. Although use on occasion (see below) may be 
beneficial. 
The Board was restructured in 2013. Catherine Biner 
Bradley resigned in April and the Committee undertook a 
review of the appropriate size, structure and composition 
of the Board. The review took into account the revised 
Group strategy – the challenges of international expansion; 
the customer shift to digital platforms and; the needs of a 
more diverse Group with a larger number of operating units 
outside of the UK.
Following the assessment, The Zygos Partnership was 
engaged as executive search consultants and tasked with 
finding suitable candidates. 19 potential candidates were 
considered (of which 11 were women), 7 shortlisted and 
interviewed (of which 5 were women).
The Nominations Committee recommended three candidates 
to the Board in August and the Board considered and 
approved their appointment. Martin Glenn and Vin Murria 
were appointed to the Board on 22 August and Clare 
Gilmartin on 18 September . 
In November 2013 the Committee reviewed the composition 
and requirements of the three Standing Committees. In 
the case of the Nominations Committee itself this was 
undertaken by Lord Davies and Rodger Hughes. The aim of 
the review was to deal with a number of issues.
The Audit Committee had a reduced membership of two 
Directors following the resignation of Catherine Biner Bradley 
in April. The Remuneration Committee would be reduced to 
two by the end of the year on the departure of Richard Alston. 
The composition of the Audit and Remuneration Committees 
had been criticised by a number of shareholders due to WPP 
nominated Directors being members.
The outcome of the review resulted in the three new Non-
Executive Directors taking up memberships in the standing 
Committees and the two WPP nominated Directors stepping 
down. The memberships of each Committee can be found in 
the Committee Reports earlier in this section.
Directors’ Statement on Corporate Governance
continued
50   Chime Communications plc GENERAL INFORMATION
Relations with shareholders
The Company is keen to promote two-way communications 
with its institutional and private investors and responds 
quickly to queries received. Christopher Satterthwaite, 
Chief Executive; and Mark Smith, Chief Operating Officer 
and Finance Director , are the Company’s principal 
spokespersons with investors, analysts, the press and other 
interested parties.
In addition to direct communications with its shareholders 
the Company publishes copies of all announcements and 
circulars etc. on the Group website, www.chimeplc.com. 
Shareholders are given at least 21 days’ notice of the Annual 
General Meeting at which all Directors are generally present 
and at which questions are both invited and encouraged. 
The Board reviews presentations to be given to analysts and 
shareholders and receives updates on direct contact with 
shareholders.
Electronic communications
Shareholders have the option to receive shareholder 
communications by electronic means or to continue 
receiving paper copies. The Company believes this equates 
with the advice it gives to its clients regarding utilising all 
channels of communication and also further illustrates our 
commitment to the environment by reducing the carbon 
emissions associated with the production and delivery of 
printed matter . Currently 66% of our shareholders opt for 
delivery electronically . This represents 75% of our issued 
share capital.
Accountability
Financial reporting
A review of the businesses in the Group is included in 
the Chief Executive’s Statement. The Board uses this, 
together with the Chairman’s Statement and the Directors’ 
Report on pages 4 to 5 and 30 to 32 respectively , to 
present a balanced and understandable assessment of 
the Company’s position and prospects. The Directors’ 
responsibilities for the financial statements are described  
on page 53 of the Report and Financial Statements.
Internal control
The Board has an established process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the 
Group. The Board regularly reviews the process, which 
has been in place from the start of the year to the date of 
approval of this report and which is in accordance with 
revised guidance on internal control published in October 
2005 (the Turnbull Guidance).
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal 
control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The control and risk management procedures are designed 
to highlight any weaknesses and/or failures in the systems to 
the Board at the earliest opportunity together with action taken 
and/or proposed. Such a system is designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Information on the Group’s significant risks, together with the 
relevant control and monitoring procedures, is reviewed on 
a monthly basis by the heads of the business units under 
the guidance of a nominated Executive Director and/or the 
Company Secretary . This information is presented to the 
Executive Directors to assess any identified risks and the 
overall effectiveness of the system of internal control. An 
update on all significant risk management issues is made  
to the Board at each quarterly meeting.
Additionally, companies annually complete a review of 
specified risk areas and their local risk management 
processes under the supervision of divisional management, 
the Group Internal Auditor and the Company Secretary . The 
Audit Committee monitors and investigates potential areas 
of risk raised by the trading companies, internal audit and 
by the Group’s centralised administrative functions such as 
legal services, human resources and IT at each meeting.
The Board recognises the need to ensure that established 
risk management procedures and standards are integrated 
into all acquired businesses and accordingly potential areas 
of non-compliance are identified during the due diligence 
process and addressed post-completion.
A review of the internal audit function has been conducted 
and reported to the Board within the annual review of the 
system of internal controls. Recommended changes to 
the scope and application of internal audit procedures 
have been adopted. The internal audit programme for the 
year has been presented to and approved by the Audit 
Committee. 
The Group is now a worldwide business and the Executive 
Directors continue to review new international opportunities. 
The Audit Committee has broadened the scope of work 
of both the internal audit functions and the systems of risk 
management in order to ensure standards of control are 
maintained throughout the enlarged Group. Control of the 
overseas businesses is currently effected by designated 
senior executives reporting directly to the Board.
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   51
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Given the nature of the Group’s activities, the Board 
recognises the risks associated with its ability to attract, 
motivate and retain talented employees. Accordingly , a 
significant part of the Group’s risk management processes 
are focused in this area and the Group continues to utilise 
employee benefits schemes shown on pages 126 and 129  
to help meet this requirement.
The risk management process
The Group has material investments in a small number of 
associated companies that are not managed by the Group. 
Accordingly, the Group can only influence, not control, their 
management practices and therefore the review of internal 
controls for these operations is less comprehensive than that 
for the Group’s managed operations.
Financial control
The financial control procedures are described under the 
following five headings:
1. Financial reporting – The Group has a comprehensive 
system for reporting financial results to the Board; 
each trading company prepares monthly results with a 
comparison against budget. The Board reviews these 
for the Group as a whole and by operating segment and 
determines appropriate action. Towards the end of each 
financial year the operating units prepare detailed budgets 
for the following year . Budgets and plans are reviewed 
and necessary changes made by the Board before being 
adopted formally .
2. Quality and integrity of personnel – One of the Group’s 
core values is integrity; this is regarded as vital to the 
maintenance of the Group’s system of internal financial 
control and is reflected in the quality and experience of the 
Group’s financial staff.
3. Operating unit financial controls – Key controls over 
major business risks include reviews against performance 
indicators and exception reporting. The trading companies 
regularly assess their exposure to major business risks and 
appropriate action is taken both at operating and Group level 
in order to ensure that risk is minimised as far as possible
4. Electronic Data Systems – The Group’s financial and 
management information is processed by and stored on 
data systems. Accordingly , the Group has established 
controls and procedures over the security of data held. The 
Group has put in place arrangements for processing to 
continue and data to be retained in the event of complete 
failure of any system.
5. Controls over central functions – A number of the Group’s 
key functions, including treasury , taxation, acquisitions and 
insurance, are dealt with centrally . Each of these functions 
has clear and detailed procedures and is required to report 
to the Board on a regular basis; the treasury details are 
reported daily to the Finance Director .
Additional information
Further information regarding the contents of this report is 
available on the Group website www.chimeplc.com, or from 
the Company Secretary on request.
Fair, balanced and understandable
The Board believes the disclosures set out on pages 21 and 
25 of the annual report provide the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, 
business and strategy .
Application of the principles of the Code
The Company has applied the principles set out in section 
1 of the Code, including both the main principles and the 
supporting principles, by complying with the Code as 
reported above.
Statement of compliance with the Code 
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2013, the 
Company has been in compliance with the Code provisions 
set out in the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code, except 
for provision D.1.2 – Executive Directors’ remuneration 
for external non-executive directorships is not stated, as 
this information is available in the financial statements 
of the companies concerned. (Also see the Director’s 
Remuneration Report on page 54.)
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf  
of the Board.
Robert Davison
Group Secretary 
26 March 2014
Directors’ Statement on Corporate Governance
continued
52   Chime Communications plc The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Report and the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. Having taken advice from 
the Audit Committee, the Board considers the Report 
and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair , balanced 
and understandable and that it provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business and strategy .
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such 
financial statements for each financial year . Under that law 
the directors are required to prepare the group financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also 
chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements 
under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. Under 
company law the directors must not approve the accounts 
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss 
of the company for that period. In preparing these financial 
statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires 
that directors:
•	 properly select and apply accounting policies;
•	 present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; 
•	 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable 
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, 
other events and conditions on the entity’s financial 
position and financial performance; and
•	 make an assessment of the company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the company 
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by 
the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of the company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole; 
2. the strategic report, includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that 
they face; and 
3. the annual report, fair review of the business and financial 
statements, taken as a whole, are fair , balanced and 
understandable and provide the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy .
By order of the Board
Christopher Satterthwaite
Chief Executive
26 March 2014
Mark Smith
Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director
26 March 2014
Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   53
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Directors’ Remuneration Report 
This report sets out the Group’s remuneration policies for 
Directors for the year ended 31 December 2013. 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
2013 saw the membership of the Committee change with 
our Chairman, Lord Davies, and Clare Gilmartin joining as 
members in December . Richard Alston and Paul Richardson 
stepped down at that time and I would like to personally 
thank them for their valuable contributions during their time 
on the Committee.
Like many companies we have worked to develop our 
remuneration policies during 2013 in preparation for new 
reporting requirements. We have built on the remuneration 
review undertaken last year , the results of which were put to 
shareholders at last year’s AGM. To summarise our work:
Policy
Following the change of leadership we sought to put in 
place remuneration policies for Executive Directors aligned 
to strategy whilst retaining the link to the creation of 
shareholder value. The resulting changes included a move to 
a greater proportion of variable pay , the deferral of 50% of 
bonuses in restricted shares and the setting of shareholding 
requirements for each of the Directors.
Shareholders have different views and we have attempted 
to reflect the position of the majority . Our proposals last 
year were modified in the light of the views expressed in 
our consultations with shareholders. The policy being put 
forward for approval at the forthcoming AGM does not 
contain any major changes from the 2013 review but some 
of the details have been modified further to reflect the 
comments received and to provide additional clarity .
2013
Last year we set challenging targets for the Executive 
Directors and the profit target was not met, despite four of 
the five divisions outperforming. Based on performance 
against the other KPI targets we awarded 33.3% of the 
maximum bonus having regard to the broader context, 
including unanticipated events such as the successful 
acquisition of JMI.
2014
As set out in the report which follows, the Executive 
Directors’ salaries, pension contributions and general level 
of benefits will remain unchanged from 2013, and bonus 
performance targets have been set, 50% relating to profits 
and 50% based on KPIs.
The 2011 Co Investment Plan award will vest on 1 September 
2014, at 34.3% of the maximum. We shall make awards 
under the Performance Share Plan in 2014 of 200% of salary 
for Christopher Satterthwaite and 175% to Mark Smith with 
stretching EPS and TSR targets weighted equally .
The future
Going forward we hope the structure we have put in 
place will stand the test of time but we shall keep it under 
review, monitoring developments in the marketplace (with 
the assistance of Towers Watson). We value the views 
of shareholders and I would welcome comments and/or 
questions at the forthcoming AGM or at any time.
Rodger Hughes
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
26 March 2014
Introduction to the Directors’ Remuneration Report
54   Chime Communications plc The Committee Report for 2013, together with details of 
membership of the Committee can be found in the Directors’ 
Statement on Corporate Governance on page 38. That 
section forms part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be put to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming AGM.
The Committee is responsible for ensuring there is a formal, 
rigorous and transparent procedure for the development  
and implementation of policy on executive remuneration.  
It takes its lead from the Board in linking remuneration to  
the achievement of strategic goals.
The full Terms of Reference of the Committee are available 
on the Company website www.chimeplc.com.
The Committee retains the services of Towers Watson to 
provide specialist and third party advice. Towers Watson 
provide insight to best practice; incentive plan design and 
implementation and; formulaic calculations of performance 
against our TSR comparator groups. The Committee deems 
Towers Watson’s advice to be objective and independent.
Aims of remuneration
The aim of our remuneration arrangements is to attract, 
motivate, reward and retain executive talent. In doing so 
the Committee takes into account market trends and best 
practice.
There are six main elements of the remuneration packages 
for Executive Directors:
•	 basic annual salary;
•	 pension arrangements;
•	 benefits (other than pension);
•	 annual bonus payments;
•	 deferred share incentives; and
•	 long-term incentive plans. 
Remuneration policy For Executive Directors
Executive remuneration was the subject of a formal review 
by the Remuneration Committee in early 2013 following the 
development of a revised Group strategy and changes to 
the Board. The main outcomes of the review approved by 
shareholders at the 2013 AGM were:
•	 there is an increased emphasis on variable pay linked to 
the achievement of the strategy with base salaries frozen 
until no earlier than January 2016;
•	 there is an increase in the maximum bonus opportunity 
from 50% to 100% of salary subject to stretching PBT 
targets and achievement of strategic KPIs. 
•	 at least 50% of any bonus earned is deferred into shares 
for a period of three years to further align Executive 
Directors’ interests with those of shareholders;
•	 long-term incentive awards shall be made under a  
new Performance Share Plan with a longer performance 
period of at least four years and a delay to full vesting of 
five years; and
•	 formal shareholding requirements for Executive Directors 
were introduced.
Proposed policy
At the AGM on 15 May 2014 we are seeking shareholders’ 
approval of our Directors’ Remuneration Policy, as set out in 
the next section of this report. The main substance of our 
policy is as approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM. 
The Remuneration Committee
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   55
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements The table below summarises our proposed Remuneration Policy to be put before shareholders at our AGM in May 2014. If 
approved the Policy will apply for three years from the AGM in 2014. Any changes required during the life of the policy will be 
put before shareholders in general meeting. 
Salary
Recognises and rewards the status, skills and experience of the individual and their criticality to the success of the Group.
Link to Group strategy Policy and operation Maximum opportunity
Facilitates the recruitment and 
retention of the right people for 
senior roles
Base salaries should be competitive relative to market peer 
groups and the salaries of Group Divisional Heads.
In setting salary levels, the Committee considers:
•	 the experience and responsibility of the Executive Directors;
•	 their personal performance during the previous year;
•	 salary levels within companies of a similar size and nature; 
•	 the rates of increases for other employees in the Group; 
•	 specific retention or recruitment issues; and
•	 in the case of Christopher Satterthwaite, the proportion of his 
time spent on fee earning client work and the management of 
key clients.
The Committee reviews salaries with effect from January each year .
In normal circumstances increases 
to Executive Directors will be similar 
to those awarded to the broader 
employee population. 
The current salaries payable to the 
Executive Directors are frozen until 
at least January 2016. (The last 
increases were awarded in July 
2012).
Only in exceptional circumstances 
such as a significant change in 
responsibilities, significant growth 
within the Group, or periods of 
sustained inflation. Increases in 
excess of those awarded to the 
broader employee population may 
be considered by the Committee.
Discretion 
The Committee retains discretion to grant salary increases but only within the confines of the circumstances detailed above.
Pension
Provides market-competitive funding for retirement
Link to Group strategy Policy and operation Maximum opportunity
Facilitates the recruitment and 
retention of the right people for 
senior roles
Executive Directors are entitled to an employer pension 
contribution of up to 20% of salary . Only basic salary is 
pensionable.
Employer pension contributions can be paid into a Group Money 
Purchase or Group Personal Pension Plan. However , depending on 
Executives’ personal circumstances the Committee may agree that 
the employer pension contributions are paid into the individual’s 
chosen pension vehicle or as a cash allowance in lieu of a pension 
contribution.
20% of basic salary .
Discretion 
The Committee retains discretion to grant pension contributions up to 20% of salary .
Remuneration Policy
56   Chime Communications plc Benefits (excluding pension)
Protects against risks and provides other benefits as part of a market-competitive remuneration package.
Link to Group strategy Policy and operation Maximum opportunity
Facilitates the recruitment and 
retention of the right people for 
senior roles
Benefits provision for Executive Directors can include:
•	 medical benefits, including cover for spouse & children subject 
to scheme restrictions
(1)
;
•	 life assurance
(1)
;
•	 permanent health insurance
(1)
;
•	 transport-related benefits including parking space and access  
to car and driver when required for business purposes;
•	 such other benefits as the Committee deems to be appropriate, 
subject to the value of such benefits not exceeding 15% of 
salary when totalled all other benefits provided excluding 
relocation and repatriation expenses; and
•	 reimbursement of reasonably incurred business expenses 
(including those linked to relocation and repatriation) where 
approved by the Committee.
In the regular course of events  
the total value of benefits provided 
(excluding pension) will be no more 
than 15% of salary, although this 
may be increased in the event  
of a material change to the costs  
of provision.
In exceptional circumstances such 
as relocation, the value of benefits 
provision may exceed the stated 
percentage of salary .
Discretion 
The Committee retains discretion to provide benefits to the Executive Directors within the 15% cap. Flexibility is required in order to meet plan 
and underwriting costs/requirements. Additionally, but only in exceptional circumstances (e.g. due to the costs of insurance premiums, or 
policy design) the cap of 15% may be exceeded.
Notes
(1) 
These classes of benefits are available to the general staff population of the Group.
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   57
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Annual bonus plan
Focuses on the achievement of the Company’s short-term business objectives and the performance of Executive Directors in 
achieving those targets.
Link to Group strategy Policy and operation Maximum opportunity
Rewards the achievement of 
annual Group performance 
against targets that are linked 
to Group strategy and financial 
performance.
The deferral of 50% of any bonus 
earned by Executive Directors into 
shares for a period of three years 
encourages retention and further 
aligns the interests of Directors 
with those of shareholders.
The annual bonus allocation for Executive Directors is capped 
at 100% of salary . At least 50% of the maximum bonus will 
be based on financial metrics for the financial year with the 
remaining half assessed against KPIs. These may be common  
or individual to the Directors concerned.
Each year the Committee will determine the performance targets 
for the payment of the bonus. Financial targets will be set, taking 
into account relevant factors such as market expectations, 
previous performance and the internal budget. Adjustments 
required for acquisitions and disposals may be taken into account 
at the time of the relevant event but only where such adjustments 
are required in order that the targets retain their original purpose 
and the resulting adjusted targets are not materially less difficult 
to achieve.
The Committee will set at least four KPIs for each Executive 
Director linked to the Company’s strategic targets. KPIs may 
change each year depending on strategic priorities and, whilst 
most targets will be financial, behavioural targets may also be set.
In assessing performance against KPIs the Remuneration 
Committee will have regard to their relative importance in 
performance during the year in question, but will not weight any 
one KPI more than 30% of the total.
A maximum award will only be made for overachievement. If the 
performance targets are achieved, approximately 60% of the 
maximum possible bonus will be paid. 
For threshold levels of financial performance approximately 30% 
of the maximum may be payable.
The Committee reserves the right to make adjustments to the 
bonus payable in respect of achievement of performance 
targets taking into account events during the year and the overall 
shareholder experience. 
50% of any bonus earned is payable in cash, with the remaining 
50% payable in deferred Company shares under the Deferred 
Share Plan, for three years from the date of grant. Vesting of  
the shares is subject to continued employment. Where beneficial 
ownership is transferred to the participant during the deferred 
period, as provided under the rules of the Plan, dividends  
are payable.
Up to 100% of basic salary with 
half paid in cash and half deferred 
in shares under the Deferred Share 
Plan.
Discretion 
The Committee retains discretion within the limits described above on the nature and weighting of targets; the level awarded against 
performance and, adjustments made to performance targets due to acquisitions and/or disposals (e.g. affecting profit performance). The 
Committee may increase the proportion of bonus to be paid in deferred shares. The Committee has the ability to exercise discretion to 
override the formulaic bonus outcome within the limits of the Bonus Plan where it believes the outcome is not truly reflective of performance 
and to ensure fairness to both shareholders and participants.
The Committee will apply judgement in assessing an individual’s performance against the KPIs agreed for the year when the nature of the 
targets means they are not quantifiable.
Clawback and malus provisions 
The Committee has the discretion to require the Executive Directors to repay some or all of any net bonus amount paid (the ‘Clawback’) 
should new facts come to light after the payment of the bonus which result either in the adverse restating of Company results or which 
materially and adversely change the factual data by which the Committee has measured the Executive’s performance. In each case of 
adjustment the Committee will act proportionately to the relevant correction, in good faith towards the Executive and within two years from 
the end of the performance year in question. The Clawback provisions on awards made under the Deferred Share Plan apply only to awards 
made to Executive Directors after 2013. 
Remuneration Policy
continued
58   Chime Communications plc Long-term incentive plan – the performance share plan 2013 (‘PSP’):
Ensures a direct link between executive reward and shareholder returns.
Link to Group strategy Policy and operation Maximum opportunity
Rewards growth in shareholder 
value over a multi-year period.
Long-term performance 
conditions, deferred vesting and 
the malus conditions discourage 
excessive risk-taking and align the 
interests of Directors with those of 
shareholders.
The PSP shall be operated in accordance with the Plan rules  
as approved by shareholders on 15 May 2013. Awards to 
Executive Directors can be released split over four and five  
years (see below).
Awards are subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions 
which will determine the proportion (if any) of the Award to vest. 
Awards are subject to a minimum of a four year performance 
period with 50% vesting as soon as practicable after the 
announcement of the preliminary annual results for the final year . 
The remaining 50% is subject to an additional retention period of  
a further 12 months before vesting as soon as practicable after the 
preliminary announcement of results for the following year .
Awards made from 2013 to 2017 will be subject to targets relating 
to headline EPS and to TSR taking analysts’ expectations into 
account. Weighting between the two targets will be between 40% 
– 60%. A broad index deemed most appropriate by the Committee 
for comparative TSR purposes will be set at the time of each 
award cycle. Thresholds at which awards will vest will be set by the 
Committee each year and may differ from year to year . Threshold 
performance will result in vesting at 25% of the maximum award.
For and on each award the Committee may agree that dividends 
will accrue during the period to vesting and be payable to the 
participants.
The maximum award of shares to 
a participant in a year is set by the 
Remuneration Committee but will be 
no more than 200% of basic salary . 
Discretion
The Committee may amend or substitute performance targets if one or more events occur which cause the Committee to consider that it 
would be appropriate. Any amended or substituted performance condition should not be materially less difficult to satisfy .
The Committee has limited discretion over the methodology used in assessing EPS and TSR performance. In accordance with the PSP rules 
and this may affect the formulaic outcome. Such discretion will only be used in order that targets retain their original purpose and are not 
materially less difficult to achieve.
The Committee retains the right to use its judgement in assessing performance against targets in order to ensure a fair outcome in relation  
to overall shareholder experience.
At any point before the issue or transfer of Award Shares, the Remuneration Committee may decide to pay a participant a cash amount 
equal to the value of the Shares he would otherwise have received following vesting.
Clawback and malus provisions 
Additionally, the Committee may, at its discretion prior to the vesting of an Award made under the PSP , reduce the number of Award shares, 
cancel an Award or impose further condition on an Award. The circumstances in which the Remuneration Committee may exercise this 
discretion include a material misstatement of the Company’s audited results; a material failure of risk management by the Company or by a 
member or business unit of the Company’s group, or serious reputational damage to the Company or by a member or business unit of the 
Company’s Group.
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   59
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Long-term incentive plan – co-investment plan 2010 (‘CIP’)
Ensures a direct link between executive reward and shareholder returns.
Link to Group strategy Policy and operation Maximum opportunity
Rewards growth in shareholder 
value and aligns interests 
of Directors with those of 
shareholders.
For Executive Directors the 
Performance Share Plan has 
replaced the Co-Investment Plan 
for LTIP awards from 2013.
The CIP 2010 is an annual ‘rolling’ plan with discretionary share 
awards made to senior employees (including but not limited to 
Executive Directors). Participants receive an award of shares 
which vest after a three-year performance period subject to the 
achievement of demanding performance conditions set by the 
Committee for each award. Participants are required to maintain 
an investment in the Company throughout the vesting period. For 
Executive Directors this investment is 25% of each award under 
the Plan.
Awards made in 2011 and 2012 were subject to a target of EPS 
growth in excess of CPI. For the achievement of between CPI 
+5% to CPI +12% payout would be in the range of 30-100% of 
the award. There will be no payout for below CPI +5%.
For TSR, maximum payout will result from the achievement of 
the Company being placed at or above the 75
th
 percentile of the 
Comparator Group; 30-100% of payout pro rata from achieving 
median to 75
th
 percentile and, nil for below median placement.
The maximum award of shares to 
a participant in a year is set by the 
Remuneration Committee but will 
normally be no more than 100% of 
basic salary .
For the remaining awards the EPS 
Target for 100% payout are:
EPS Growth of CPI plus 12% and 
achieving TSR Performance at or 
above the 75
th
 percentile of the 
Comparator Group.
Discretion 
The Committee may change the performance targets or measures in the event it is deemed fair and reasonable to do so, on the basis that the 
conditions are not materially easier or more difficult to achieve.
Notes 
This is no longer an active plan for Executive Directors. Awards made in 2011 mature in 2014 and awards made in 2012 mature in 2015. 
The original Comparator Group included Bloomsbury Publishing; Centaur Media; Creston; Future, Huntsworth; ITE Group; Tarsus Group; 
Wilmington Group; Cello Group; M&C Saatchi; Next Fifteen; Chrysalis Group and Media Squared. Both Chrysalis and Media Squared 
delisted in 2011.
Savings Related Share Option Scheme
Offers all UK-based employees who meet service and tax qualifications the opportunity to build a shareholding in a tax-
efficient way .
Link to Group strategy Policy and operation Maximum opportunity
Encourages investment in Company 
shares
UK based Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the 
Company’s Save As You Earn (SAYE) scheme on the same  
basis as all other UK based employees.
The option price is usually discounted by 20%.
The Committee may decide to make invitations following either 
of the preliminary announcement of annual results or the interim 
announcement. The Committee may decide not to make an invitation 
in any given year .
The current Company saving 
maximum in practice is £1,200 
per year , although this could be 
increased to the scheme maximum 
of £6,000 per year in line with HMRC 
SAYE limits.
Discretion 
The Committee has the discretion to decide the limit of shares available for any given invitation to staff; to amend the qualifying period of 
employment for participation, and to set the maximum savings amount per individual participant. 
Notes 
The scheme is open to all UK based staff meeting tax criteria and a qualifying period of employment.
Remuneration Policy
continued
60   Chime Communications plc Use of discretion and judgement 
The Committee, in line with market practice, and through 
the operation of the previously agreed the various Plan 
rules retains discretion over a number of factors within the 
operation and administration of the Plans noted above. This 
may result in the override of the formulaic outcome of both 
short and long term incentives.
The Committee shall only exercise such discretion provided 
within the previously approved Plan rules and this Policy 
where it is in the interests of shareholders to do so. Such 
discretion shall not be exercised to reward failure but to 
address changes in circumstances unforeseen by the 
Committee. Any use of such discretion shall be reported to 
shareholders in the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the 
appropriate year .
Executive remuneration in relation to the broader 
employee population
The Committee has regard for increases to employee salary 
levels and employee bonus arrangements in reaching 
decisions about Executive Directors’ remuneration. No 
specific comparison metrics are used. We operate a people 
business in which the knowledge and relationships held by 
key individuals are frequently vitally important to the success 
of the business. Therefore, within the general employee 
population, individual salaries are set mainly by taking 
into account market levels, changes in responsibility, and 
importance to client relationships etc. Similar factors are 
taken into account in setting Executive pay . 
The rate for Executive Directors’ employer pension 
contributions is higher than that of the broader employee 
population – this reflects market practice for senior 
executives. 
Similar insurance-related benefits are available to a large 
proportion of Group employees. 
Employees are not consulted on the remuneration of the 
Executive Directors. 
Shareholding requirements
Ensures a direct link between individuals’ capital investments and that of shareholders.
Link to Group strategy Policy and operation Maximum opportunity
Share ownership aligns the 
Directors interests with those of 
shareholders and provides an 
incentive for capital growth and the 
avoidance of risks.
The Committee has set shareholding guidelines for the Non-
Executive Chairman and for Executive Directors.
These provide a target investment as a percentage of salary  
and a period to achieve the target. 
For the Non-Executive Chairman, £50,000 of his annual fee  
must be invested in Chime shares and he must make a matching 
investment in each year until the requirement is met.
Chairman: 
£100,000 per annum investment 
in Chime shares to a target of 
£300,000 by December 2015 and to 
be held at that level thereafter .
Chief Executive: 
To 300% of salary by December 
2017 and to be held thereafter .
Chief Operating Officer and Finance 
Director: 
To 250% of salary by December 
2017 and to be held thereafter .
Discretion 
For the Executive Directors they must achieve the target investment by the target date but may divest from their current holdings with the prior 
permission of the Board and Committee Chairman.
Notes 
The current shareholdings of the directors are shown on page 71.
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   61
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements External Directorships
Provides executives with broader experience of business operations and assists personal development.
Link to Group strategy Policy and operation Maximum opportunity
Exposure to other organisations 
provides insight into a balanced 
view of Chime’s business 
and assists in the personal 
development of Chime’s 
executives.
Positions in other organisations must have the prior approval 
of the Chairman of the Board. Where fees are payable by the 
external organisation the Board shall agree whether these may 
be retained by the executive concerned.
Positions held may have different 
levels of fees. 
Currently Christopher Satterthwaite 
is Non-Executive Chair of the 
Roundhouse Trust; a Director of 
Business in the Community (both 
of which are unremunerated) and 
the Senior Independent Director of 
Centaur Media plc.
Mark Smith is the Non-Executive 
Chair of Holiday Extras Investments 
Ltd. 
The fees, where paid, receivable for 
those appointments are available 
in the financial statements of those 
organisations.
Discretion 
The Chairman may not approve appointments if, following assessment, there is a conflict of interest, a time commitment which if met would 
distract from the applicable Chime role, or for any other reason.
Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors
Facilitates the recruitment and retention of suitable calibre Non-Executives to the Board.
Link to Group strategy Policy and operation Maximum opportunity
To provide a qualified, well  
balanced independent Board of 
sufficient calibre and experience  
to deliver strategic leadership to  
the Group.
Non-Executive Directors are paid a fee for their directorship  
and additionally for membership of the Audit and/or the 
Remuneration Committees, and as Senior Independent Director . 
The Nominations Committee does not attract an additional fee.
The Chairman is not paid supplementary fees for Committee 
memberships.
WPP nominated directors are unremunerated.
Non-Executive Directors may not participate in incentive or 
pension schemes.
Non-Executive Director fees are reviewed every two years in the 
light of market levels (the last review took place in August 2013).
There is no opportunity beyond the 
agreed fees and the overall limit set 
out in the Articles of Association.
Discretion 
The Board may agree that a Director sit on one or more Committee. The Committee may agree additional fees where additional work or 
time commitment is required, such additional fees shall be disclosed, together with a description of the work undertaken in the applicable 
financial report.
Remuneration Policy
continued
62   Chime Communications plc Recruitment policy
The table below outlines the Company’s policy on the remuneration arrangements for new Executive Directors.  
The Committee considers the current 12 month notice period that applies to each of the current Executive Directors  
to be adequate to recruit new Directors.
Remuneration element Policy on recruitment
Salary The Committee will offer a market-related salary as necessary to attract high calibre individuals, taking 
into account the skills and experience of the individuals and in line with the factors considered when 
evaluating the salaries of existing Executive Directors.
Benefits A benefits package in line with its policy for existing Executive Directors will be offered, although where 
individuals are not based in the UK, adjustments may be made to reflect local market practices.
Additionally, the Committee may approve a relocation package including paying for family flights, 
accommodation allowance; removal costs and visa assistance, etc.
Pension The maximum contribution will be in line with the Company’s policy for existing Executive Directors.
Incentive pay The Committee will offer the ability to earn a bonus in line with the policy for existing Executive Directors 
and they will be eligible to participate in the PSP . To attract the best candidate, the Committee may offer 
bonus or PSP awards in excess of the maximums permitted for existing Executive Directors subject to 
the maximum variable annual remuneration opportunity for new recruits totalling no more than 300% of 
salary .
Honouring existing commitments Where the new Executive Director is relinquishing existing incentives granted by a previous employer , 
the Committee may consider a compensation arrangement on a case-by-case basis. The resulting 
payment will endeavour to equal the value foregone by the executive and may use a mixture of cash 
and shares and, where possible, awards will be performance-related.
For internal promotions to the Board, we will respect prior contractual arrangements. Any commitments 
made prior to appointment and not relating to appointment will be allowed to pay out according to the 
terms under which they were made, subject to applicable incentive plan rules.
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   63
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Exit payments
This table sets out our policy on exit payments in relation to each remuneration element for Executive Directors. Any payments 
on early termination of service contracts for the Executive Directors and of any employee, would be in line with contractual 
and statutory requirements. The terms of the service contracts of the Executive Directors and the letters of appointment of 
the Non-Executive Directors’ provide for termination by giving of notice, but do not include compensation for loss of office or 
employment. In the event of termination by the Company, Executive Directors may be entitled to compensation in respect of 
their statutory rights under employment protection legislation in addition to their contractual rights.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the 12 month notice period that applies to Executive Directors gives a Director 
an appropriate degree of protection in the event of a termination by the Company and is consistent with market practice. 
Type of remuneration Treatment on exit
Salary, Benefits and Pension/ 
Pension Allowance
Salary, benefits and pension contribution/pension allowance will be paid over the notice period. The 
Group has the discretion to make a lump sum payment in lieu of notice to an equivalent value. The 
Group may seek to mitigate the payment due.
Annual Bonus including Deferred 
Shares
Subject to assessment of performance against targets by the Committee, Executive Directors are 
eligible to receive the Annual Bonus if they are employed on the last date of the financial year . If the 
Group operates its right to make a payment in lieu of notice prior to the end of the annual performance 
period, an assessment of performance against targets will be made by the Committee and any bonus 
determined to be payable will be paid pro rata to period of service.
Any bonus amounts previously awarded and deferred in shares will be released in accordance with the 
rules of the Deferred Share Plan. 
For permitted reasons (e.g. death, retirement, ill-health, injury or disability or redundancy) the Committee 
may determine the end of the deferral period for a given award to be the date of the termination of 
contract. The Committee has the discretion to reduce the number of Award Shares pro-rata to the 
period of service during the deferral period.
In the event of a change of control or liquidation, the Deferral Period will be deemed to have come to an 
end on that date and the Award Shares will be released. The Committee may decide that the number of 
Shares subject to the award will be reduced pro rata to the actual performance period.
LTIP – Co-Investment Plan
No new awards will be made to 
Executive Directors under this Plan
If a participant ceases to be employed within the Group for any reason other than one justifying 
summary dismissal, he will be entitled to retain any award that has already matured. If a participant 
ceases to be employed within the Group before an award has matured, his award will lapse unless 
he leaves for a permitted reason. Examples of permitted reasons are death, ill-health, injury, disability, 
redundancy . Where a participant leaves for a permitted reason, his award will be reduced on a pro rata 
basis by his service during the performance period unless the Committee decides to make a smaller or 
larger reduction (including no reduction at all) having regard to such factors as it considers relevant.
The participant’s award will vest according to the performance targets measured over the normal 
performance period unless the Committee decides that the performance targets will be measured to 
another date as the Committee may decide is more appropriate.
In the event of a change of control of the Group the number of shares to vest may be reduced pro rata 
to the Director’s service during the performance period. The performance period shall be shortened 
to the period of the Director’s service within the performance period on a pro rata basis unless the 
Committee decides that the award will vest to a greater or lesser extent having regard to such factors as 
it considers relevant. 
Participants may, with the agreement of the acquiring company, surrender their awards in return for 
substitute awards over shares in the acquiring company . If, immediately following the change of control, 
not less than 75% of the shareholders of the acquiring company are the same as the shareholders in 
the Group immediately before the change of control and participants are offered or granted substitute 
awards, the Committee may decide that unvested awards will not vest.
LTIP – Performance Share Plan If the Executive Director ceases to be an officer or employee of the Group by reason of injury , ill-health, 
disability or for any other reason at the Committee’s discretion (except where a participant is dismissed 
lawfully without notice), he will be a ‘Good Leaver’. In these circumstances the Executive’s unvested 
awards will normally continue until the normal vesting date, although the Remuneration has the discretion 
to determine that the Awards will vest as soon as reasonably practicable within a year of the termination 
date. The Committee will decide the extent to which an unvested Award vests taking into account the 
extent to which the performance conditions are satisfied. Unless the Committee exercises its discretion to 
decide otherwise, the proportion of the original Performance Period that has elapsed on the termination 
date will also be taken into account in determining the extent to which an unvested Award vests. Vested  
nil-cost options will be subject to a six month period where the participant may exercise the option.
Remuneration Policy
continued
64   Chime Communications plc Executive Director total remuneration at different levels of performance
Christopher Satterthwaite – Chief Executive Officer
Minimum
On Target
Above Target
£  000s
Minimum
On Target
Above Target
£  000s
Fixed remuneration Bonus Long-term incentive plans
30% 23% 47%
100%
54% 25% 21%
100%
53% 26% 21%
29% 24% 47%
250 500 750 1000 1250 1500 1750
250 500 750 1000 1250 1500 1750 2250 2000
Mark Smith – Chief Operating Officer and Financial Director
Service contracts
The following table summarises the dates and notice periods for each Director’s contract.
Date of Board  
appointment
Contract 
date
Company  
notice period
Executive  
notice period
Executive Directors
Christopher Satterthwaite December 2002 5 September 2013 12 months 12 months
Mark Smith June 1994 5 September 2013 12 months 12 months
Non-Executive Directors
Lord Davies (Chairman) December 2012 8 December 2012 3 months 3 months
Rodger Hughes July 2007 1 July 2007 3 months 3 months
Claire Gilmartin September 2013 15 September 2013 3 months 3 months
Martin Glenn August 2013 8 August 2013 3 months 3 months
Vin Murria August 2013 8 August 2013 3 months 3 months
Christopher Sweetland July 2012 Linked to WPP 
shareholding
Director appointments are subject to Board approval and election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following 
appointment and, thereafter , by annual re-election.
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   65
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Salary & Fees 
£
Benefits 
£
Bonus 
£
Emoluments excl Pension 
£
Pension Contributions and Allowances 
£
Long Term Incentives 
£
Total 31  
December 
£
Total  
31 December 
£
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Executive Directors
Christopher Satterthwaite 525,000 512,500 22,103 23,786 174,825
(5)
393,750
(6)
721,928 930,036 105,000
(7)
90,000 308,247 
(8)
737,363 1,135,175 1,020,036
Mark Smith 
(9)
375,000 350,000 28,759 29,022 124,875
(5)
281,250
(6)
528,634 660,272 75,000
(7)
70,000 200,387 
(8)
456,798 804,021 730,272
Non-Executive Directors 
(1)
Lord Davies (Chairman) 250,000
(2)
63,077
(2)
- - - - 63,077 - - - -
Rodger Hughes  
(Senior Independent Director)
53,750
(3)
146,000
(4)
- - - - 53,750 146,000 - - - - 53,750 146,000
Clare Gilmartin  
(appointed 18.09.2013) 
11,801
(3)
- - - - - 11,801 - - - - - 11,801 -
Martin Glenn  
(appointed 22.08.2013)
14,827
(3)
- - - - - 14,827 - - - - - 14,827 -
Vin Murria  
(appointed 22.08.2013)
14,827
(3)
- - - - - 14,827 - - - - - 14,827 -
Paul Richardson  
(resigned 26.03.2014)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Christopher Sweetland - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Hon. Richard Alston 
(resigned 31.12.2013)
30,000 30,000 - - - - 30,000 30,000 - - - - 30,000 30,000
Catherine Biner Bradley 
(resigned 30.04.2013)
11,250 30,000 - - - - 11,250 30,000 - - - - 11,250 30,000
(1)
 Changes to the membership of Committees were made on 5 December 2013.
(2)  
The remuneration of Lord Davies includes a commitment by the Company to pay £50,000 of his fees in shares. There are no direct restrictions on sale of these 
shares. However , Lord Davies’ contract includes commitment by him to make a matching investment each year and for his investment in the Company to be 
£300,000 by the end of April 2015 for 2013. The shares will be purchased in the market after the preliminary announcement of the 2013 results.
(3) 
Changes to the level of fees payable to Directors were effective from August 2013.
(4)  
Payments to Rodger Hughes in 2012 were in respect of his duties as the Senior Independent Director; as Chairman of the Special and Standing Committees 
and as Interim Group Chairman (1 July to 6 December 2012).
(5) 
Awarded in shares deferred for three years.
(6)  
At the 2013 AGM shareholders approved payment of a discretionary bonus to the Executive Directors. Of the totals shown £196,875 was paid to Christopher 
Satterthwaite in deferred shares. Mark Smith was paid £140,625 in deferred shares.
(7)  
Christopher Satterthwaite received £105,000 in cash as a pension allowance. Mark Smith received £25,000 in cash as a pension allowance and an additional 
£50,000 paid into his pension vehicle. Where payments to pension schemes were made those retirement schemes are money purchase schemes.
(8)  
34.3% of maximum approved for release resulting in 97,153 shares vesting for Christopher Satterthwaite and 63,158 for Mark Smith. The value of the vesting 
shares is based on average share price 1 October – 31 December 2013, £3.17. The shares do not vest until September 2014. The actual value on vesting will 
be reported in the 2014 Annual Report.
(9)  
Mark Smith is currently a participant in the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme from the grant in 2009 with 8,995 shares under option. This is not included 
above as the exercise period falls in 2014.
Directors’ Remuneration in 2013
66   Chime Communications plc Salary & Fees 
£
Benefits 
£
Bonus 
£
Emoluments excl Pension 
£
Pension Contributions and Allowances 
£
Long Term Incentives 
£
Total 31  
December 
£
Total  
31 December 
£
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Executive Directors
Christopher Satterthwaite 525,000 512,500 22,103 23,786 174,825
(5)
393,750
(6)
721,928 930,036 105,000
(7)
90,000 308,247 
(8)
737,363 1,135,175 1,020,036
Mark Smith 
(9)
375,000 350,000 28,759 29,022 124,875
(5)
281,250
(6)
528,634 660,272 75,000
(7)
70,000 200,387 
(8)
456,798 804,021 730,272
Non-Executive Directors 
(1)
Lord Davies (Chairman) 250,000
(2)
63,077
(2)
- - - - 63,077 - - - -
Rodger Hughes  
(Senior Independent Director)
53,750
(3)
146,000
(4)
- - - - 53,750 146,000 - - - - 53,750 146,000
Clare Gilmartin  
(appointed 18.09.2013) 
11,801
(3)
- - - - - 11,801 - - - - - 11,801 -
Martin Glenn  
(appointed 22.08.2013)
14,827
(3)
- - - - - 14,827 - - - - - 14,827 -
Vin Murria  
(appointed 22.08.2013)
14,827
(3)
- - - - - 14,827 - - - - - 14,827 -
Paul Richardson  
(resigned 26.03.2014)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Christopher Sweetland - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Hon. Richard Alston 
(resigned 31.12.2013)
30,000 30,000 - - - - 30,000 30,000 - - - - 30,000 30,000
Catherine Biner Bradley 
(resigned 30.04.2013)
11,250 30,000 - - - - 11,250 30,000 - - - - 11,250 30,000
(1)
 Changes to the membership of Committees were made on 5 December 2013.
(2)  
The remuneration of Lord Davies includes a commitment by the Company to pay £50,000 of his fees in shares. There are no direct restrictions on sale of these 
shares. However , Lord Davies’ contract includes commitment by him to make a matching investment each year and for his investment in the Company to be 
£300,000 by the end of April 2015 for 2013. The shares will be purchased in the market after the preliminary announcement of the 2013 results.
(3) 
Changes to the level of fees payable to Directors were effective from August 2013.
(4)  
Payments to Rodger Hughes in 2012 were in respect of his duties as the Senior Independent Director; as Chairman of the Special and Standing Committees 
and as Interim Group Chairman (1 July to 6 December 2012).
(5) 
Awarded in shares deferred for three years.
(6)  
At the 2013 AGM shareholders approved payment of a discretionary bonus to the Executive Directors. Of the totals shown £196,875 was paid to Christopher 
Satterthwaite in deferred shares. Mark Smith was paid £140,625 in deferred shares.
(7)  
Christopher Satterthwaite received £105,000 in cash as a pension allowance. Mark Smith received £25,000 in cash as a pension allowance and an additional 
£50,000 paid into his pension vehicle. Where payments to pension schemes were made those retirement schemes are money purchase schemes.
(8)  
34.3% of maximum approved for release resulting in 97,153 shares vesting for Christopher Satterthwaite and 63,158 for Mark Smith. The value of the vesting 
shares is based on average share price 1 October – 31 December 2013, £3.17. The shares do not vest until September 2014. The actual value on vesting will 
be reported in the 2014 Annual Report.
(9)  
Mark Smith is currently a participant in the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme from the grant in 2009 with 8,995 shares under option. This is not included 
above as the exercise period falls in 2014.
Directors’ Remuneration in 2013
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   67
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Salary and fees
Increases were last made to Christopher Satterthwaite and 
Mark Smith in July 2012. In 2013 changes were made to 
variable pay elements and, as part of these arrangements, 
no salary increases will be made until 2016. The Executive 
Director’s salaries are shown on page 66.
During 2013 the Board membership changed with three new 
Non-Executive Directors joining in August and September 
and two Directors retiring during the year . On recruiting 
the new directors, the Nominations and Remuneration 
Committees considered the market rate for the calibre 
of candidates considered and the time commitment 
required from the appointees. This assessment resulted in 
an amendment to the fees payable to our Non-Executive 
Directors as follows:
£
Non-Executive Chairman 250,000
Senior Independent Director 55,000
Non-Executive Director 40,000
Committee membership 5,000
WPP nominated Directors are unremunerated. The Chairman 
does not receive supplementary fees for Committee 
membership. Committee fees are not payable for the 
membership of the Nominations Committee.
Pension
Christopher Satterthwaite received a pension allowance 
paid in cash of £105,000. Mark Smith received a payment of 
£50,000 into his pension scheme and a pension allowance 
of £25,000 in cash.
Benefits
The benefits provided by the Group to the Executive 
Directors consisted primarily of vehicle-related benefits such 
as a car or car allowance and private medical insurance.
Annual bonus
The Executive Directors’ annual bonus arrangements are 
focused on the achievement of the Group’s short term 
objectives. 
Half of the bonus payable is on the achievement of the 
Group profit target. The remaining 50% is payable after 
the assessment of performance against key performance 
indicators (KPIs).
The expectation is that if all targets are met a bonus of not 
less than 60% would be payable with the final amount being 
agreed after an assessment ‘in the round’ of performance  
of the individual concerned and events occurring during  
the period.
In 2013 the budget profit target was not met therefore that 
element is not payable.
Key Performance Indicators and performance
The KPIs for the year were weighted equally .
1. Increase profit margin
Shareholder return measure: Margin declined from 16.4% 
in 2012 to 15.2%. Outcome: missed
2. Return on equity
 
Shareholder return measure. The return on equity target 
included the need to make adjustments for the number and 
timing of contributions from acquisitions. Outcome: missed
3. Income from and number of shared clients
Strategic objective: Level of income was maintained 
at 68% and the number slightly increased to 1725 
(2012:1720). Outcome: achieved
4. Average fee per client
Strategic objective: Increased by 8.8% from £91,000 to 
£99,000. The number of clients paying Group companies 
over £100,000 during the year increased from 211 in 2012 
to 249. Outcome: achieved
5. Income from overseas businesses
Strategic objective: Increased by 65% during the 
period. Of total income 19% was derived from overseas 
businesses (2012:12%). Outcome: achieved
6. Assessment of individual performances
Management performance measure: An assessment of 
individual performance of each Executive Director . This 
KPI takes into account the operating environment and 
unforeseen events during the year (e.g. acquisitions and the 
management of issues). Outcome: achieved.
Commercial sensitivity
Where our disclosures allow we have provided the detail 
of targets against actual performance. Certain targets 
are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive 
both in the original targets set and in the detail of any 
adjustments necessary to accommodate for the timing and 
profit contributions of acquisitions and disposals. We have 
therefore not disclosed the profit before tax or the return on 
equity target.
Assessing individual performances
The Committee acknowledges that whilst targets are set for 
the year in order to motivate specific performance, factors 
not foreseen during target setting should also be considered 
when assessing an individual’s performance. Unforeseen 
corporate events in 2013 included the acquisition of JMI, the 
placing and extended banking facility .
Directors’ Remuneration in 2013 
continued
68   Chime Communications plc Performance and award
The Committee considered the performance of the Group, 
the Directors’ individual performances and bonus payments 
to the wider staff population. The original profit target had 
been missed and therefore no award would be made for 
that element. The Committee considered the KPIs. The 
Committee will not reward failure. Three of the five formulaic 
targets had been achieved and the Committee agreed that 
whilst the achievement against the original objectives had 
fallen short, the overall performance, including the three 
acquisitions, the refinancing, the success in building a 
strong business in Brazil and the reorganisation under the 
revised strategy was important context.
The assessment resulted in an award of 33.3% of the 
maximum (100% of salary) to be paid entirely in shares 
deferred for three years rather than as 50% cash/50% 
deferred shares which would be our normal practice.  
The cash equivalent values to be awarded in shares are 
to Christopher Satterthwaite, £174,825 and to Mark Smith, 
£124,875.
Long-term incentive plans
Co-Investment Plan Award 2011
An award under the Co-Investment Plan was made to the 
Executive Directors in September 2011. The award had a 
performance period of 1 January 2011 to 31 December 
2013. Vesting, subject to the achievement of performance 
targets, will take place on 1 September 2014. There are two 
performance targets each equally weighted.
EPS target
The EPS Target is based on Chime achieving annual 
average earnings per share (EPS) growth over the three-year 
Performance Period in excess of the Consumer Prices  
Index (CPI):
EPS Growth in excess  
of CPI
% of EPS portion of Award 
Shares that will vest
5% or less 0
5% 30
Between 5% and 12% 30 to 100 pro rata
12% 100
TSR target
The TSR Target is based on achieving total shareholder 
return over the three year Performance Period compared to a 
comparator group of other media businesses:
Position in Comparator  
Group
% of TSR portion of Award 
Shares that will vest
Below median 0%
At median 30%
Between median and  
75
th
 percentile
30% to 100% pro rata
At or above 75
th
 percentile 100%
The Comparator Group includes the following 14 companies: 
Bloomsbury Publishing, Centaur Media, Chrysalis Group, 
Creston, Future, Huntsworth, ITE Group, Media Squared, 
STV , Tarsus Group, Wilmington Group, Cello Group, M&C 
Saatchi and Next Fifteen.
Performance and vesting
The EPS Target was not met therefore that element of the 
award did not vest. EPS for the period was negative.
The Committee reviewed the TSR performance and agreed 
that only 34.3% of the maximum (i.e. 68.6% of the maximum 
for the TSR element) would vest.
In assessing performance the Committee reviewed the 
treatment of the two companies from the comparator  
group which delisted during the performance period. 
Chrysalis delisted within 30 days of the start of the three 
year performance period and Media Squared within  
11 months. As provided by the Plan rules, the Committee 
agreed that a methodology where the proceeds of the 
theoretical investment were re-invested in the remaining 
comparator group of 12 companies. This reflected a 
consistent investment approach in terms of the companies 
originally selected.
The vesting that will take place as soon as practicable after 
1 September 2014 will result in Christopher Satterthwaite 
receiving 97 ,153 shares and Mark Smith receiving 63,158 
shares.
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   69
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Long-term interests awarded during 2013
On 15 May 2013, awards were made to the Executive 
Directors under the Performance Share Plan as follows:
Award level  
(% of salary)
Face value 
of Award
Number 
of Shares 
subject  
to Award
Christopher Satterthwaite 200% £1,050,000 410,958
Mark Smith 175% £656,347 256,849
The share price used to determine the number of shares 
under Award was £2.555 this being the average middle-
market quotation of a share (as derived from the Daily 
Official List) over the five dealing days immediately prior  
to the Award Date. 
Form and operation of award
The performance period is 1 January 2013 – 31 December 
2016. A first tranche of 50% of any award will vest as soon 
as practicable after the preliminary announcement of 
financial results for 2016 with the second remaining tranche 
vesting after the results announcement for 2017.
The awards were granted as nil-cost options and will 
be exercisable, subject to the rules of the Plan, during 
the period from the vesting dates above until the tenth 
anniversary of the original award.
Performance conditions
The Performance Conditions shall apply equally to both 
tranches. 60% of each tranche (rounded down to the nearest 
whole share) shall be subject to the TSR Performance 
Condition and the remaining 40% of each tranche shall be 
subject to the EPS Performance Condition. 
60% of the 2013 Awards are subject to a performance 
condition measuring the Company’s Total Shareholder 
Return (‘TSR’) over a Performance Period of four financial 
years of the Company starting with the year ending  
31 December 2013 compared to the constituent members of 
the FTSE250 index (excluding investment trusts). The FTSE 
250 was considered to be the most appropriate comparator 
group given the growth ambitions of the Company .
The TSR performance targets for the 2013 Awards are as 
follows: 
Rank of the Company’s TSR 
within the Comparator Group
Extent to which the TSR  
Performance Condition  
has been satisfied
Upper quintile or above 100%
Between median and upper 
quintile
Pro rata between 25% and 100% 
on a ranking basis
Median 25%
Below median 0%
The remaining 40% of the 2013 Award is subject to a 
performance condition measuring the Company’s cumulative 
earnings per share over the same Performance Period. The 
EPS performance targets for the 2013 Awards have been 
set based on the achievement of the following annualised 
growth rates: 
Annual compound growth in 
EPS over the Performance 
Period
Extent to which the EPS  
Performance Condition has 
been satisfied
15% p.a. or more 100%
Between 7% p.a. and 15% p.a. On a straight-line basis between 
25% and 100%
7% p.a. 25%
Less than 7% p.a. 0%
For the 2013 Award, this results in cumulative targets of 
101p and 122p for threshold and maximum performance 
respectively, based on the 2012 headline results earnings 
per share (21.2p).
Dividends payable on the unvested award will not be 
accrued for the benefit of the participants.
Directors’ Remuneration in 2013
continued
70   Chime Communications plc Implementation of policy in 2014
As set out in our policy , the salaries and pension payments for the two Executive Directors are frozen until January 2016.  
The value of benefits may change but only in respect of the cost of the insurance policies. There is no intention to widen  
the list of benefits provided.
With regards to annual bonus for 2014, 50% will be paid on the achievement of a stretching headline profit target and 50% 
measured against a set of KPIs linked to our strategic aims. At this stage the disclosure of any further detail on the measures  
is deemed to be commercially sensitive. Additional detail, to the extent the Committee deems it possible, will be set out in our  
next report.
It is our intention to make an award under the Performance Share Plan of 200% of salary to Christopher Satterthwaite and of 
175% to Mark Smith. We shall retain EPS and total shareholder return as the performance measures. The targets will continue 
to be stretching over the four year performance period. For the 2014 Award, these will be weighted equally . At the time of this 
report being approved, the targets had not yet been finalised with the Board.
Directors’ interests in shares of Chime Communications plc
The interests of those Directors of the Company who held shares in the Company during 2013 are detailed below. All were 
Directors for the whole year . The remaining Directors of the Company did not have interests in the Company during 2013 with 
the exception of Catherine Biner Bradley who held 16,762 shares on 1 January 2013 and on 30 April 2014, the date of her 
resignation from the Board.
Christopher Satterthwaite Mark Smith Lord Davies Rodger Hughes
Shareholding – beneficial holdings
1 January 2013 338,328 300,080 - 27,053
Acquired - - 19,018 -
Deferred Share Award 75,214 53,724 - -
Placing 16,667 8,333 16,667 -
31 December 2013 430,209
(1)
362,137
(1)
35,685 27,053
Deferred Shares (beneficially owned)
1 January 2013 - -
Awarded
(3)
75,214 53,724
Released - -
Lapsed - -
31 December 2013 75,214
(1)
53,724
(1)
Co-Investment Plan
(2)
1 January 2013 737,363 456,798
Awarded - -
Released - -
Lapsed 238,095 132,275
31 December 2013 499,268 324,523
Performance Share Plan
(2)
1 January 2013 - -
Awarded
(4)
410,958 256,849
Released - -
Mark Smith also has options over 8,995 shares under the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme and held these throughout 
the year without further grant, exercise or lapses.
(1)
  The total shareholding figure includes shares awarded under the Deferred Share Plan and beneficially owned by participants during the deferral period. The 
deferred shares are subject to retention conditions but not further performance conditions.
(2)
  Co-Investment Plan and Performance Share Plan Awards are subject to performance conditions over a specified Performance Period.
(3)
  Details relating to this award are on page 128.
(4)
  Performance conditions related to this award are detailed on page 69. The awards made in 2013 were as nil-cost options.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2014
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   71
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors were introduced in 2013. By 31 December 2017, Christopher Satterthwaite is 
required to have acquired and thereafter to hold shares in Chime Communications to the value of 300% of basic salary and 
Mark Smith to have acquired and thereafter to hold shares in Chime Communications to the value of 250% of basic salary .
Past Directors and loss of office payments
During 2013 no payments were made to past Directors and no loss of office payments were made.
Payments to Catherine Biner Bradley and the Hon Richard Alston, who both resigned from the Board during the year , for the 
periods as Directors are shown in the table on page 66. All payments were in respect of directors’ fees.
TSR performance graph
The following graph compares Chime’s TSR performance to that of the same investment in the FTSE250 (excluding 
Investment Trusts). This comparison has been chosen because the FTSE 250 (excluding Investment Trusts) is the comparator 
group for the current long term incentive plan (The Performance Share Plan).
TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has provided for its shareholders, reflecting share price movements and 
assuming reinvestment of dividends. Data is averaged over 30 days at the end of each financial year .
Chime FTSE100
Share price p (rebased to CHW)
FTSE 250 (excluding Investment Trusts)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
1 Jan 09 1 Jul 09 1 Jan 10 1 Jul 11 1 Jan 11 1 Jul 11 1 Jan 12 1 Jul 12 1 Jan 13 1 Jul 13
Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2014
continued
72   Chime Communications plc CEO pay table 
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Total CEO  
Remuneration inc. 
Vesting LTIP Awards £924,094
(1)
£1,529,134 £622,873 £1,020,036 £1,135,175
(2)
Total CEO  
Remuneration exc. 
Vesting LTIP Awards £924,094
(1)
£873,903 £622,873 £1,020,036 £826,928
Annual Variable 
Pay £
Bonus
Maximum £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £393,750 £525,000
Actual
£250,000 £250,000 0 £393,750 £174,825
Actual as %  
of maximum 100% 100% 0% 100% 33.3%
Long-term  
Variable Pay 
No of Shares
Maximum
No LTIP with  
performance  
period ending  
in year
449,400
No LTIP with  
performance  
period ending  
in year
238,095 283,286
Actual 336,016 0 97,153
Actual as %  
of maximum 74.77% 0% 34.3%
(1)  
Includes taxable gain of £46,116 in respect of Deferred Share release.
(2)  
Includes an estimated gain of £308,247 based on the vesting of 97,153 shares in September 2014. The estimated value of Chime shares is based on the  
90 days prior to 31 December 2013.
 Percentage increase in CEO remuneration 
The following table sets out the percentage change in (2013 
over 2012) in Chief Executive Remuneration against staff in 
two comparator groups.
Chief  
Executive
Executive 
Management 
Team
Chime  
Central  
Staff
Salary +2.5% +7.2% +1.9%
Benefits -7.1% +9.8% +7.1%
Annual Bonus -55.6% -21.4% -43.6%
Total Remuneration -22.4% +0.2% -6%
Staff comparator groups
We have shown the percentage change against two 
comparator groups.
Executive Management Team
The Executive Management Team are responsible for the 
implementation of strategy , the allocation of resources and 
other commercial aspects of the Group. The membership is 
mainly drawn from the senior management teams within the 
divisions. Most of these individuals work directly with clients.
Therefore those members are remunerated on the 
performance of the individual divisions they represent. 
Christopher Satterthwaite spends a significant proportion  
of his time with Group clients and therefore the comparison 
is relevant.
Chime Central
The Chime Central team are those staff who work directly 
for the Company in managing the Group. Their bonuses and 
incentives are paid on Company performance and therefore 
there is a direct correlation between the Chief Executive and 
this group of staff.
Relative importance of spend on pay
Chime is a group of people businesses. Therefore our ability 
to attract and retain and motivate our staff is an important 
factor in our success. The following table sets out the 
change in profit, dividends and remuneration expenditure for 
2013 over 2012.
2013 2012 Year on Year Change 
£000 £000 £000 %
Dividends 6,289 5,349 940 18
Staff pay 113,900 117,763 -3,863 -3
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   73
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements SHAREHOLDER VOTING 
In early 2013 the Committee undertook a review of executive 
remuneration. The Group had restructured and adopted a 
revised strategy . It was therefore prudent to ensure that the 
policies used remained fit for purpose.
The initial outcome of the review resulted in:
•	 an increase in base salaries for the two remaining 
Executive Directors to reflect the additional responsibilities 
of their roles and the growth of the Group; 
•	 salaries to be frozen until 2016; 
•	 an increased maximum bonus award to 100% to reward 
the achievement of short term goals including; 
•	 the deferral of at least 50% of any bonus award into 
shares for three years; 
•	 the establishment of a new Long Term Incentive Scheme, 
The Performance Share Plan; and
•	 shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee also proposed paying the 
Executive Directors a bonus of 37.5% of salary in deferred 
shares (deferral: two years).
This was in addition to the cash bonus paid of 37.5% 
of salary . As the total of 75% was above the previously 
disclosed maximum of 50%, the Committee felt that the 
payment should be put before shareholders for approval. 
Unfortunately, a number of shareholders saw this additional 
bonus as discretionary and did not feel able to support the 
resolution.
During the review the Committee Chairman, Rodger Hughes, 
consulted with a number of major shareholders together with 
the ABI and RREV in order to gain a market view of desirable 
structure and to gauge market attitudes to our proposals. 
We would like to thank those individuals that took part. The 
consultation was productive and as a result we amended our 
original policy design in the following areas:
•	 the type and weighting of the performance measures for 
bonus payments;
•	 the size and ‘build period’ for the shareholding 
requirement;
•	 the maximum award limits under the Performance Share 
Plan (PSP);
•	 the performance target metrics for the PSP;
•	 the periods to vesting for the PSP; and
•	 overall use of possible discretion available to the 
Committee.
In addition, a number of shareholders saw the additional 
bonus as discretionary and indicated opposition to its 
payment.
Shareholder voting
At the AGM on 15 May 2013 three resolutions regarding 
Executive Remuneration were put before shareholders with 
the following outcome.
To approve the Director’s Remuneration Report for year ended 
31 December 2012
For Against Withheld Did not vote
36,129,830 16,030,584 17,652,926 15,341,456
Of votes cast 69.27% 30.73% - -
Of issued 
share capital 42.43% 18.82% 20.73% 18.02%
To approve the Bonus Payment to Executive Directors in respect 
of 2012
For Against Withheld Did not vote
29,803,946 18,998,219 21,011,175 15,341,456
Of votes cast 61.07% 38.93% - -
Of issued 
share capital 35% 22.31% 24.67% 18.02%
74   Chime Communications plc To Approve the Establishment and Rules of the Performance  
Share Plan
For Against Withheld Did not Vote
34,494,666 17,960,644 17,358,030 15,341,456
Of votes cast 65.76% 34.24% - -
Of issued 
share capital 40.51% 21.09% 20.38% 18.02%
The issued share capital (ISC) of the Company on 15 May 
2013 was 85,154,796.
Comment on shareholder voting
Whilst each of the resolutions was approved by shareholders 
it is unfortunate that the Committee was unable to convince 
all our members of the merits of the proposals in 2013. Two 
areas are particularly worth noting. 
WPP position
Our largest shareholder WPP abstained (withheld) its vote 
on the three resolutions as part of a general WPP policy . 
At the time of the AGM vote WPP held 17,330,000 shares 
representing 20.35% of the voting rights of the Company . 
The WPP representatives on the Board supported the 
proposals.
Bonus payment
We were aware that a number of shareholders and 
governance agencies viewed the bonus as discretionary 
and ex-gratia. However we believe good governance 
practice was followed. We paid below our previously 
agreed maximum in cash; retaining a mix of 50:50 cash 
and shares and put the balancing payment of deferred 
shares before shareholders. However , analysis of votes 
cast and discussion with a number of parties suggests that 
shareholders registered votes against both the Remuneration 
Report and the bonus payment as a result.
Policy development
In further developing our Remuneration Policy the Committee 
have taken note of the events surrounding the review of 
2013. The Committee has built on this in the policy to be 
put before shareholders at the forthcoming AGM and as set 
out on pages 56 to 64. We have documented the caps and 
limits applicable to each of our schemes; described the 
limits; potential reasons for use of Committee discretion and 
most importantly; linked our remuneration to a continued 
and improved return to shareholders. We believe the design 
of our policy is fit for purpose and in line with our stated 
business strategy .
This Report was approved by the Board of Directors and 
signed on its behalf by:
Rodger Hughes
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
26 March 2014
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013   75
Overview and Highlights
Strategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
•	 the 	 financial	 sta tements 	giv e 	a 	tr ue 	and 	 fair 	view	of 	the	
sta te	of 	the	group’ s 	and	of 	the	parent 	compan y’ s 	af fair s 	
as	a t	31 	December	 2013	and	of 	the 	group’ s	profit	f or	the 	
y ear 	 then	ended;
•	 the 	group	financial	sta tements	ha v e 	 been 	 proper l y 	
prepared 	in	accordance 	with	Inter na tional	Financial	
R epor ting 	Standards	(IFRSs)	as	adopted	b y 	the 
European 	Union;
•	 the 	parent	compan y 	financial	sta tements 	ha v e 	been	
proper l y	prepared	in	accordance 	with	United	Kingdom 	
Generall y 	Accepted 	Accounting	Practice;	and
•	 the 	financial	sta tements 	ha v e 	been	prepared 	 in	
accordance 	with	the	 requirements 	of 	the	Companies	 Act	
2006 	and, 	as	reg ards	the 	group 	 financial 	sta tements ,	
Ar tic le 	4	of 	the	IAS	R egula tion.
T he 	financial 	sta tements 	comprise 	the 	Consolida ted 	Income	
Sta tement, 	the	Consolida ted 	Sta tement 	of 	Comprehensiv e 	
Income ,	the	Consolida ted 	and	P arent 	Compan y 	Balance	
Sheets ,	the	Consolida ted 	Cash	F low 	Sta tement, 	the	
Consolida ted 	 Sta tement 	of 	Changes	 in	Equity , 	the 	P arent 	
Compan y	R econcilia tion 	of 	Mo v ements 	in	Shareholder s’ 	
Funds 	 and 	 the 	rela ted 	 notes	1	to	38. 	T he 	financial 	repor ting 	
framewor k 	tha t 	has 	been	applied	in	the 	prepara tion 	of 	the	
group	 financial	 sta tements 	is	applicab le 	la w 	and 	 IFRSs	 as 	
adopted	b y 	 the 	 European	Union. 	T he 	financial 	repor ting 	
framewor k 	tha t	has 	been	applied	in	the 	prepara tion 	of 	the	
parent	 compan y 	 financial	sta tements 	is	applicab le 	la w 	and	
United	Kingdom	Accounting	Standards	(United	Kingdom	
Generall y 	Accepted 	Accounting	Practice).
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB
As	e xplained 	in 	note 	2	to 	the 	group	financial	sta tements , 	in 	
addition	 to	compl ying	 with	 its	leg al 	ob lig a tion	to 	appl y	 IFRSs	
as	 adopted	 b y 	the 	European	 Union,	 the	group	 has 	 also	
applied	 IFRSs	as	 issued	b y 	 the	 Inter na tional 	Accounting	
Standards	 Board 	 (IASB).
In 	our	 opinion 	 the	group	 financial 	 sta tements 	 compl y 	 with	
IFRSs	 as 	 issued	 b y	the	 IASB .
Going concern
As	required	b y 	the 	Listing	 R ules 	we 	ha v e 	 re viewed	the	
director s’	 sta tement	 on	page	 21	tha t	 the	group	 is 	 a 	 going	
concer n. 	W e 	confir m 	tha t:
•	 we 	ha v e 	 not	identified	 an y 	ma terial 	 uncer tainties 	 tha t 	 ma y 	
cast 	significant	doubt	 on	the	 group’ s	 ability	to 	contin ue	as 	
a	 going	concer n;	 and
•	 we 	ha v e	 conc luded 	tha t 	the 	director s’ 	 use	of 	the 	going	
concer n	 basis	of 	accounting 	in 	the	 prepara tion	of 	the	
financial	sta tements	is	appropria te .
Howe v er , 	because	 not	 all	future	 e v ents	or	 conditions	can	be	
predicted,	 this	sta tement 	is	not	 a	guarantee	 as	to 	the	 group’ s	
ability	 to	contin ue 	 as 	 a	going	 concer n. 	
Independent Auditor’s report to the  
Members of Chime Communications plc
76			 Chime	Communications	 plc Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
T he	 assessed	 risks	of 	ma terial 	missta tement 	described	 below 	 are	those 	tha t	had	 the	grea test 	 ef f ect 	on	 our	audit	stra tegy , 	 the	
alloca tion	of 	resources	in	the 	audit	and 	directing	the	ef f or ts 	 of 	the	 eng agement	team:
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets
The Group’s assessment of impairment of goodwill and intangible 
assets and the Company’s assessment of impairment of 
investments are judgmental processes which require estimates 
concerning the forecast cash flows and the associated discount 
rates and growth rates based on management’s view of 
business prospects and taking in to account the odd versus 
even year fluctuation. 
We recalculated the discount rates applied to future cash flows 
and worked with our internal valuation specialists to assess the 
appropriateness of the underlying calculations and benchmarked 
the resulting discount rates against other companies operating 
in the media sector. We have compared the assumed growth 
rates and forecast cash flows against historic trends achieved in 
the business and analysed actual performance against forecast 
performance to assess the reliability of the management 
forecast. We compared management sensitivity analysis against 
recent trading activity, historic trends and our understanding of 
the future prospects of the business to identify whether these 
scenarios could give rise to further impairment. 
Acquisition accounting 
The Group’s assessment of the recognition and measurement 
of goodwill and other intangible assets on acquisitions is 
dependent on whether to recognise contingent consideration 
as either deferred consideration or deemed remuneration. This 
involves significant judgements in relation to link to employment 
conditions in relation to contingent consideration payments and 
valuation of customer contracts, relationships, brand names and 
proprietary technologies. 
We audited all current year acquisitions including assessing 
compliance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, testing of 
the share purchase agreements and considering whether all 
components of consideration and/or remuneration had been 
correctly identified. We tested the balance sheet of the acquired 
businesses at the date of acquisition and acquisition adjustments 
to supporting evidence. For the identified intangible assets we 
assessed the underlying calculations and judgements by testing 
the mathematical accuracy of the calculations and testing the 
inputs, such as future contracted revenue, costs and customer 
relationships and other factors making up the intangible assets, 
to signed contracts referencing the future contracted revenue, 
forecast cost base for the entity and historic revenue trends 
with customers. 
Revenue recognition
The recognition of revenue on a gross and net basis and 
accounting for long term projects represent significant areas of 
judgement. In terms of whether to recognise revenue on a gross 
or net basis, the judgements relate to whether the group is acting 
as an agent. For long-term projects, the judgments relate to the 
amount of revenue to be deferred as fees received in advance and 
the allowance that should be made for future recoverability of 
receivables, work in progress and accrued income recognised for 
on-going projects. 
 
In order to assess the judgements over revenue recognition on 
either a gross or net basis, we performed a review of the contracts 
to confirm whether it was appropriate to recognise the gross 
revenue and performed detailed testing of the underlying costs 
recharged to supporting evidence. 
We assessed the significant judgements made by management 
in relation to project based revenue recognition by agreeing the 
revenue recognise to contract terms and conditions, and tested 
margins on the projects to historic financial performance. We also 
tested the judgements in the forecasts to completion to historic 
margins and cost requirements to contracts. 
We tested the recoverability of receivables, work in progress and 
accrued income by sample testing receivables, work in progress 
and accrued income to cash receipts post year end and/or 
customer acceptances for invoices raised.   
 
Annual 	Report	and	Accounts	2013			77
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements T he 	A udit 	Committee’ s 	considera tion	of 	these	risks	is	set	 out	
on	page	77.
Our	audit 	procedures	rela ting	to	these	ma tter s	were	
designed 	in 	the 	 conte xt	of 	our	audit	of 	the	financial	
sta tements 	 as	a	w hole , 	and	not	to 	e xpress 	an 	opinion	on	
individual	accounts	or	disc losures . 	Our 	opinion	on 	the	
financial 	sta tements	is	not	modified 	with 	respect	to	an y	of 	
the	 risks	described	 abo v e ,	and 	we	 do 	not 	e xpress	an 	opinion	
on	these	individual 	 ma tter s .
Our application of materiality
W e 	 define	ma teriality 	as	the 	magnitude	of 	missta tement	
in	the	financial	sta tements 	tha t 	mak es 	it	probab le 	tha t 	the	
economic	decisions	of 	a	reasonab l y 	knowledgeab le 	per son 	
would	be	 c hanged 	 or	influenced. 	W e 	use	ma teriality 	both 	 in	
planning	the 	 scope 	of 	our	audit	wor k 	and	in	e v alua ting 	the	
results	 of 	our	wor k.
W e 	 deter mined 	ma teriality 	f or 	the 	group 	to 	be 	£1.275	million,	
w hic h 	is	 5%	of 	headline	profit	bef ore 	tax,	and	below	1%	of 	
equity .	Headline	 profit	bef ore 	tax	is	defined	as 	group 	loss	
bef ore	 tax	e x c luding	amor tisa tion 	of 	acquisition	intangib le , 	
deemed 	rem unera tion 	c harges 	inc luding 	finance	c harges , 	
cost 	of 	acquisitions	and	restr ucturing 	and 	 impair ment 	of 	
goodwill.	T hese 	adjustments	 are 	made	 consistentl y 	b y 	the	
Group	in	their	ear nings 	comm unica tions 	with	the 	mar k et 	and,	
in	the	opinion	of 	the	Director s ,	pro vide 	a	more	comparab le 	
measure 	with	similar	 org anisa tions 	 and 	are	consistent 	with	
the 	profit 	measures	tha t 	are	most 	rele v ant 	to	anal ysts 	and	
in v estor s . 	
W e	 agreed	with	the	A udit	Committee	tha t	we	would	repor t 	
to	the	 Committee	all	audit	dif f erences 	in 	e x cess 	 of 	£25,500, 	
as	 well 	as 	dif f erences 	below	tha t 	threshold 	 tha t, 	in	our	
view ,	war ranted 	repor ting 	on 	qualita tiv e 	grounds . 	W e 	also 	
repor t	to	 the 	A udit 	Committee 	on	disc losure 	ma tter s 	tha t 	 we	
identified	 w hen 	assessing	the	o v erall 	presenta tion 	of 	the	
financial	sta tements .
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our	group	 audit	was	scoped 	b y 	obtaining	an	under standing 	
of 	the	group	and 	its	en vironment, 	 inc luding	group-wide	
controls ,	and 	 assessing	the	risks	of 	ma terial 	missta tement 	
a t 	the 	 group	le v el. 	Based	on	tha t 	assessment,	we	f ocused 	
our	 group	audit	scope	f ocused 	primaril y 	on	the 	audit	wor k 	a t 	
14	loca tions . 	11 	of 	these	were	subject	to	a	full	audit,	w hilst 	
the 	remaining	3	 were	subject	to	an 	audit 	of 	specified	audit	
procedures	w here 	the	e xtent 	of 	our	testing	was	based	on	
our	 assessment 	 of 	the	risks	of 	ma terial 	missta tement 	and 	 of 	
the	 ma teriality 	of 	the 	 group’ s 	opera tions 	a t 	those 	loca tions . 	
T hese 	14	loca tions 	represent	 the	principal	b usiness 	units	
and	account 	f or 	91% 	of 	the 	group’ s 	 net	assets , 	75%	of 	
the	group’ s 	opera ting 	income 	and 	72%	of 	the	group’ s 	
loss 	bef ore 	tax.	T he y 	were	also	selected	 to	pro vide 	an 	
appropria te	basis	 f or 	 under taking 	audit	wor k 	to	address	
the	risks	of 	ma terial 	missta tement 	identified 	abo v e . 	Our	
anal ytical	procedures	a t 	 the	14	loca tions 	were 	e x ecuted 	
a t	 le v els	of 	ma teriality 	 applicab le 	 to	 eac h	individual 	entity	
w hic h	 were 	 lower	than 	group	ma teriality .
At	the 	parent 	entity	 le v el	we 	also	 tested 	 the	 consolida tion	
process	and	car ried 	out 	anal ytical	procedures	 to	 confir m 	
our	conc lusion	 tha t 	there	were	no	 significant	risks	of 	ma terial	
missta tement	 of 	 the	 ag greg a ted 	 financial	inf or ma tion 	of 	
the	 remaining	components	 not	 subject	 to	audit	 or	audit	of 	
specified	account	 balances .
T he 	group	 audit 	 team 	 contin ued 	 to	f ollow 	a	 programme	of 	
planned	visits	tha t	has	 been 	 designed 	 so	tha t 	 the	a	 senior	
member 	 of 	 the	 group 	 audit	team	visits 	eac h 	of 	 the	loca tions	
w here	the 	group	audit	scope	was 	f ocused	a t 	least	once 	
e v er y 	two	 y ear s 	 and	the	 most 	 significant	of 	 them 	 a t 	 least	
once	a	y ear . 	 In	 y ear s 	w hen 	we 	do	not 	visit	a	significant	
component	we 	will 	inc lude	the 	component	 audit 	 par tner 	in	
our	 team 	 briefing ,	 discuss	their 	risk	assessment,	 and 	 re view	
documenta tion	of 	 the	findings	 from	their	 wor k.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006 
In our opinion:
•	 the 	 par t 	of 	the 	Director s’ 	 R em unera tion 	R epor t 	 to	 be	
audited	 has	been	proper l y	prepared	in 	accordance	with	
the	 Companies	Act	 2006;	and
•	 the	 inf or ma tion 	giv en	 in	 the	Stra tegic	R epor t 	and	the	
Director s’	R epor t 	 f or 	the 	financial	y ear	f or	 w hic h	 the	
financial	sta tements 	are	 prepared	is	consistent	 with	the	
financial	sta tements .
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under 	the	 Companies	Act	 2006 	 we	 are	required	to 	repor t 	to	
y ou	 if , 	in 	our	 opinion:
•	 we 	ha v e	 not	receiv ed 	 all	the 	inf or ma tion 	and	 e xplana tions 	
we 	require	f or	 our	audit;	 or
•	 adequa te 	accounting 	records	 ha v e	not 	been	k ept 	b y 	the	
parent	 compan y ,	 or	retur ns	 adequa te	 f or 	our 	audit	ha v e 	
not	 been 	 receiv ed	from	 branc hes	not	 visited	 b y 	us; 	or
•	 the	 parent	 compan y	financial	sta tements	are 	not	 in	
agreement	with	 the	 accounting	records 	and	retur ns .
W e	ha v e	nothing 	 to	 repor t 	in 	respect 	of 	these 	ma tter s .
Directors’ remuneration
Under 	the	 Companies	Act	 2006 	 we	 are	also 	required	to	
repor t	 if 	in 	our 	opinion	cer tain	disc losures	 of 	 director s’	
rem unera tion	ha v e	 not	been	made	 or	 the	par t	 of 	 the	
Director s’	R em unera tion 	R epor t 	to 	be	 audited	is	not 	in 	
agreement 	 with	 the	 accounting	records 	and	retur ns . 	 W e 	
ha v e	 nothing	to 	repor t 	arising	 from	these	 ma tter s .
Independent Auditor’s report to the  
Members of Chime Communications plc continued
78			 Chime	Communications	 plc Corporate Governance Statement
Under	the	Listing 	R ules 	we	are	also	required	to 	re view 	the	
par t	of 	the 	 Cor pora te	Go v er nance 	Sta tement	rela ting	 to	
the	compan y’ s 	compliance 	with	nine	pro visions 	of 	 the	 UK	
Cor pora te 	 Go v er nance 	Code . 	W e 	ha v e 	nothing	to	repor t 	
arising	from	our 	re view .
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under	Inter na tional 	Standards	on 	A uditing 	 (UK 	 and	Ireland),	
we	are 	required	to	repor t	to 	y ou	if ,	in	our	opinion,	inf or ma tion 	
in	the	ann ual 	repor t	is:
•	 ma teriall y 	inconsistent 	with	the 	inf or ma tion 	in	the	 audited	
financial	sta tements;	or
•	 apparentl y 	ma teriall y	incor rect 	 based	on,	or	ma teriall y 	
inconsistent 	with,	our 	knowledge	of 	 the	group	acquired	in 	
the	cour se 	of 	perf or ming 	 our 	audit;	or
•	 otherwise 	misleading .
In 	par ticular , 	we 	are	required	to	 consider	w hether 	we 	ha v e 	
identified 	 an y 	inconsistencies 	between	our 	knowledge	
acquired 	during	the	audit	and	the	director s’ 	sta tement 	
tha t 	the y 	consider	the 	ann ual 	repor t 	is	fair , 	balanced	and	
under standab le	 and	w hether	the 	ann ual 	repor t 	appropria tel y	
disc loses 	those	ma tter s 	tha t 	we	comm unica ted 	to	the	
audit	 committee	 w hic h 	we	consider 	should	ha v e 	 been	
disc losed.	W e 	confir m 	 tha t 	we	ha v e 	not	identified 	an y 	suc h 	
inconsistencies 	or	misleading 	sta tements .
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As	e xplained	more	full y 	in	the 	Director s’ 	R esponsibilities 	
Sta tement,	the	director s 	are	responsib le 	f or 	the	prepara tion	
of 	the	financial	sta tements 	and	f or 	being	sa tisfied 	tha t 	
the y 	giv e	 a	tr ue	and	fair 	view .	Our	responsibility	is	 to	 audit 	
and	 e xpress 	an 	opinion	on 	the	financial 	sta tements 	in 	
accordance 	with	applicab le	la w	and	Inter na tional 	Standards	
on 	 A uditing 	(UK	and	Ireland).	T hose 	standards	require	us	 to	
compl y	 with	 the	 A uditing	 Practices	 Board’ s	 Ethical	 Standards	
f or 	A uditor s . 	W e 	also	compl y 	with	Inter na tional 	 Standard	 on 	
Quality	Control	1	(UK	and	Ireland).	Our 	 audit 	methodology	
and	tools	aim	to	 ensure	tha t 	our	quality	control	procedures	
are	ef f ectiv e , 	under stood 	and 	 applied. 	Our	quality	 controls	
and	systems	 inc lude 	our 	dedica ted 	prof essional 	 standards	
re view	team,	stra tegicall y 	f ocused 	second 	par tner 	re views 	
and	independent 	par tner 	re views .
T his 	repor t 	is	made	solel y 	to	 the	compan y’ s 	member s , 
as 	a	body , 	in	accordance	with	Chapter 	3	of 	 P ar t 	16	of 	the 	
Companies	Act	2006. 	Our 	audit	wor k 	has	been	under tak en 	
so	tha t 	 we	might	sta te 	to	the	compan y’ s 	member s 	 those	
ma tter s 	we	are 	required	to	sta te 	to	them	in	an	auditor’ s 	
repor t 	and	f or 	no 	other	 pur pose . 	T o 	the	fullest 	e xtent 	
per mitted	b y 	la w , 	we	do 	not 	accept	or 	 assume 	responsibility	
to	an y one 	other	than	the	 compan y 	and	the 	compan y’ s 	
member s 	as	 a	body , 	f or 	our	audit	wor k, 	f or 	this	repor t, 
or 	f or 	the	opinions	we	ha v e 	f or med.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An 	 audit 	 in v olv es 	 obtaining 	 e vidence 	 about	the 	amounts	
and 	 disc losures 	in 	the 	financial	sta tements	suf ficient	to	
giv e	reasonab le	 assurance	tha t	 the	financial	sta tements	
are	free	from	 ma terial 	missta tement, 	 w hether 	caused	b y 	
fraud	or 	er ror . 	 T his 	inc ludes	an	 assessment	 of: 	 w hether 	
the	accounting 	policies	 are	appropria te	 to	the 	group’ s 	
and 	 the	parent 	compan y’ s 	 circumstances	and	ha v e	
been 	 consistentl y 	 applied	 and 	 adequa tel y 	 disc losed; 	 the	
reasonab leness	of 	significant	 accounting	 estima tes 	made	
b y	the	 director s;	and	 the	o v erall	presenta tion 	 of 	 the	financial	
sta tements .	 In	 addition,	we 	read	 all	the 	financial	and	non-
financial	 inf or ma tion 	in	 the	 ann ual 	 repor t 	to 	identify	 ma terial 	
inconsistencies 	 with	 the	audited 	financial	sta tements 	and	 to 	
identify 	 an y 	inf or ma tion 	 tha t 	 is 	 apparentl y 	ma teriall y 	 incor rect 	
based	on, 	or	 ma teriall y 	inconsistent	with,	 the	knowledge	
acquired	b y 	 us	in 	the	 cour se 	 of 	 perf or ming 	 the	 audit. 	 If 	we 	
become 	 a ware 	of 	an y 	 apparent	ma terial 	 missta tements 	or	
inconsistencies 	we 	consider 	the 	implica tions 	 f or 	our	 repor t.
Anthony Morris, FCA (Senior statutory auditor)
f or 	and	on	 behalf 	 of 	Deloitte	 LLP
Char tered 	 Accountants	and	Sta tutor y 	A uditor
London, 	United	 Kingdom
26 	Marc h 	2014
 
Annual 	Report	and	Accounts	2013			79
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Consolidated Income Statement
Year ended 31 December 2013
Notes
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Continuing operations
Revenue 3 299,186 344,234 
Cost of sales (129,057) (184,444)
Operating income 3 170,129 159,790 
Operating expenses (including deemed remuneration) 5 (170,110) (154,897)
Operating profit 5 19 4,893 
Other gains and losses 7 (3,225) (1,677)
Share of results of associates 19 692 560 
Investment income 8 66 27
Finance costs 9 (1,637) (664)
Finance cost of deferred consideration 9 (309) (325)
Finance cost of deemed remuneration 9 (345) (270)
(Loss)/profit before tax (4,739) 2,544
Tax 10 (4,429) (5,200)
Loss for the year from continuing operations (9,168) (2,656)
Discontinued operations
Profit from discontinued operations 4 – 2,790
(Loss)/profit for the year (9,168) 134
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (10,831) (1,276)
Non-controlling interest 1,663 1,410
(9,168) 134
Earnings per share (pence)
From continuing and discontinued operations
Basic 13 (12.63p) (1.59p)
Diluted 13 (12.63p) (1.59p)
80			 Chime	Communications	 plc Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Year ended 31 December 2013
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
(Loss)/profit for the year (9,168) 134
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Profit on revaluation of available for sale investments 160 4
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (298) (560)
Total comprehensive income for the year (9,306) (422)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (11,003) (1,821)
Non-controlling interest 1,697 1,399
(9,306) (422)
 
Annual 	Report	and	Accounts	2013			81
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheet
Year ended 31 December 2013
Notes
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 14 227,810 178,109 
Other intangible assets 16 7,038 3,234 
Property, plant and equipment 17 9,837 6,865 
Investments in associates 19 6,089 5,719 
Other investments 20 514 354 
Deferred consideration receivable 21 282 307 
Other financial assets 22 100 300 
Deferred tax asset 11 3,510 2,084 
255,180 196,972 
Current assets
Work in progress 8,196 2,783 
Trade and other receivables 23 80,259 59,403 
Deferred consideration receivable 21 – 1,000 
Current tax receivable – 65 
Cash and cash equivalents 18,267 17,892 
106,722 81,143 
Total assets 361,902 278,115 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 25 (91,019) (70,714)
Current tax liabilities (2,180) (3,850)
Obligations under finance leases 26 (20) (107)
Bank loans and overdrafts 27 (171) (144)
Deferred consideration 28 (5,725) (3,966)
Deemed remuneration 29 (1,671) (13,815)
Short-term provisions 30 (1,420) (1,208)
(102,206) (93,804)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 4,516 (12,661)
Non-current liabilities
Bank loans payable after more than one year 27 (57,852) (13,385)
Deferred consideration 28 (11,608) (11,984)
Deemed remuneration 29 (4,880) (864)
Deferred tax liabilities 11 (657) –
Long-term provisions 30 (652) (1,462)
Obligations under finance leases 26 – (20)
(75,649) (27,715)
Total liabilities (177,855) (121,519)
Net assets 184,047 156,596 
82			 Chime	Communications	 plc Consolidated Balance Sheet continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
Notes
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Equity
Share capital 31 24,529 20,522 
Share premium account 32 122,939 81,943 
Own shares 32 (1,718) (2,554)
Capital reduction reserve 32 – 32,385 
Translation reserve 32 (156) 176 
Accumulated profit 32 36,319 22,772 
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 181,913 155,244 
Non-controlling interest 2,134 1,352 
Total equity 184,047 156,596 
T he 	 financial	sta tements 	were	appro v ed 	b y 	the 	board	of 	Director s 	and	authorised	f or 	 issue	 on	26	Marc h 	2014. 	T he y 	were	
signed	on	its	behalf 	b y:
Mark Smith
Director
 
Annual 	Report	and	Accounts	2013			83
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Year ended 31 December 2013
Share 
capital 
£’000
Share 
premium 
£’000
Own
shares 
£’000
Capital
reduction
reserve
£’000
Translation
reserves
£’000
Accum-
ulated
profit/
(loss)
£’000
Total
£’000
Non-
controlling 
interests
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at  
1 January 2012 20,237 79,986 (4,191) 32,385 668 29,303 158,388 973 159,361 
Total comprehensive income for 
the year – – – – (549) (1,272) (1,821) 1,399 (422)
Transactions with owners:
Acquisition of subsidiaries 226 1,739 – – – – 1,965 196 2,161 
Issued to staff under options 59 238 – – – – 297 – 297 
Share issue costs (20) – – – – (20) – (20)
Disposed on exercise  
of options – – 2,144 – – (2,067) 77 – 77
Purchase of own shares – – (507) – – – (507) – (507)
Purchase of non-controlling  
interest – – – – – (1,781) (1,781) (22) (1,803)
Equity dividends – – – – – (5,349) (5,349) – (5,349)
Credit in relation to share  
based payments – – – – – 1,933 1,933 – 1,933 
Tax on share based payment  
exercises – – – – – 283 283 – 283
Dividends to non-controlling  
interests – – – – – – – (1,322) (1,322)
Recycle purchase of non- 
controlling interest on disposal – – – – 9 1,770 1,779 128 1,907 
Disposal of subsidiary – – – – 48 (48) – – –
Balance at   
31 December 2012 20,522 81,943 (2,554) 32,385 176 22,772 155,244 1,352 156,596 
84			 Chime	Communications	 plc Share 
capital 
£’000
Share 
premium 
£’000
Own
shares 
£’000
Capital
reduction
reserve
£’000
Translation
reserves
£’000
Accum-
ulated
profit/
(loss)
£’000
Total
£’000
Non-
controlling 
interests
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at  
1 January 2013 20,522 81,943 (2,554) 32,385 176 22,772 155,244 1,352 156,596 
Total comprehensive income 
for the year – – – – (332) (10,671) (11,003) 1,697 (9,306)
Transactions with owners:
Acquisition of subsidiaries 1,824 19,037 – – – – 20,861 63 20,924
Share placing 2,133 23,467 – – – – 25,600 – 25,600
Issued to staff under options 50 227 – – – – 277 – 277 
Share issue costs – (1,735) – – – – (1,735) – (1,735)
Disposed on exercise of  
options – – (164) – – – (164) – (164)
Purchase of own shares – – 1,000 – – (1,000) – – –
Purchase of non-controlling 
interest – – – – – – – – –
Equity dividends – – – – – (6,289) (6,289) (998) (7,287)
Credit in relation to share 
based payments – – – – – (128) (128) – (128)
Tax on share based payment 
exercises – – – – – 388 388 – 388
Recycle purchase of non- 
controlling interest ondisposal – – – – – (1,138) (1,138) (7) (1,145)
LLP partnership share – – – – – – – 27 27
Release of capital  
reduction reserve – – – (32,385) – 32,385 – – –
Balance at  
31 December 2013 24,529 122,939 (1,718) – (156) 36,319 181,913 2,134 184,047
 
Annual 	Report	and	Accounts	2013			85
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Year ended 31 December 2013
Notes
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Net cash from operating activities 33 3,146 11,984 
Investing activities 
Interest received 56 26 
Dividends received from investments and associates 320 116 
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 19 87 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (5,746) (3,105)
Purchases of other intangible assets (379) (27)
Loans granted to investments and associates – (106) 
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired) (58,156) (10,829)
Acquisition of option – (300)
Acquisition of available for sale investment – (100)
Disposal of subsidiary/associate (134) 11,358 
Deferred consideration received 1,025 450 
Net cash used in investing activities (62,995) (2,430)
Financing activities 
Dividend paid (6,289) (5,349)
Dividends paid to minorities (998) (1,322)
Increase in borrowings 57,977 14,073 
Repayment of borrowings (13,565) (8,313)
Repayment of obligations under finance leases (117) (168)
Proceeds on issue of ordinary share capital 24,142 278 
Purchase of own shares (164) (430)
Investment by non-controlling shareholder – –
Purchase of non-controlling interests (894) (1,889)
Net cash used in financing activities 60,092 (3,120)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 243 6,434 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 17,892 11,320 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 132 138 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 18,267 17,892 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and loan note deposits less overdrafts. 
Net cash comprises: 
 Cash and cash equivalents 18,267 17,892 
 Bank loans 27 (58,023) (13,529)
 Finance leases 26 (20) (127)
 Loan notes outstanding 25 (809) (58)
Overall net cash (40,585) 4,178 
86			 Chime	Communications	 plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Year ended 31 December 2013
1. General information
Chime	Comm unica tions 	plc 	is	a 	Compan y 	incor pora ted 	
in	United 	 Kingdom	under	the 	Companies	Act	2006.	 T he	
address 	of 	 the 	registered	of fice 	is	Southside , 	6th	F loor , 	105	
V ictoria	Street,	London	SW1E	6Q T .	T he	na ture 	of 	the	Group’ s 	
opera tions	 consist	principall y	of 	spor ts 	mar k eting , 	pub lic	
rela tions ,	ad v er tising , 	 mar k et	researc h,	direct 	mar k eting , 	
design	and	e v ent 	management	consultanc y .
T hese 	 financial 	 sta tements 	 are	presented	 in	 pounds	ster ling	
because 	tha t 	is	the 	cur renc y	 of 	the	 primar y 	economic	
en vironment 	 in	 w hic h 	 the 	 Group	 opera tes . 	 F oreign	 opera tions 	
are	 inc luded	 in	 accordance 	 with	 the	policies 	set	 out	in 	
note	 2.	 T he 	Group’ s	 o v er seas 	opera tions 	are	 principall y 	
conducted 	in 	US	 Dollar s ,	Brazilian 	R eals 	or	 Euros . 	T he	ra tes 	
used	are	 as	f ollows:
  
  Closing   Closing   
  rate as at Average rate as at Average 
  31 December  rate 31 December rate 
Currency   2013 2013 2012 2012
US Dollar  1.6488 1.5643 1.61530 1.58496
Euro  1.976 1.1777 1.22200 1.23310 
Brazilian Real  3.8720 3.3731 3.30660 3.09664
2. Significant accounting policies
Basis of accounting
T he 	financial 	sta tements 	ha v e 	been	prepared	in	accordance	
with	Inter na tional 	Financial	R epor ting 	Standards .	T he 	
financial	sta tements 	 ha v e 	 also	been	prepared 	in 	accordance	
with	IFRSs 	as	issued	b y 	the 	Inter na tional	 Accounting 	
Standards	 Board	(IASB) 	adopted	f or 	use	in	the 	European	
Union	 and	theref ore	compl y	with	Ar tic le 	4	 of 	the	EU	IAS	
R egula tion. 	T he 	group	has 	adopted	all	applicab le 	standards	
ef f ectiv e 	f or	the 	cur rent 	financial	y ear	with	no	 ma terial	
impact	to 	the	account,	with	the	e x ception	of 	the	additional	
disc losures 	required	b y 	IFRS	13.
T he 	financial 	sta tements 	ha v e 	been	prepared	on	the	
historical 	 cost 	basis 	e x cept 	f or	cer tain	financial	instr uments 	
tha t 	are 	car ried 	a t 	fair 	 v alue	in	accordance 	 with	the	
accounting	policies	set	out 	below .	
T he	consolida ted	income	sta tement, 	consolida ted	
balance	sheet,	consolida ted 	sta tement 	of 	comprehensiv e 	
income , 	 consolida ted 	sta tement 	of 	 c hanges 	 in	equity	and	
consolida ted	cash	flow	sta tement 	ha v e 	been	prepared	on	
a	basis	consistent 	with	the	financial	sta tements 	f or 	the	 y ear	
ended	31 	December	 2012	
Critical accounting judgments and key sources of 
estimation uncertainty
In 	the	process	of 	appl ying 	the	Group’ s	accounting	policies ,	
Management	is	required	to 	mak e 	judgments , 	estima tes 	
and 	assumptions	tha t	ma y 	af f ect	the	financial	sta tements . 	
Management	belie v es 	tha t 	the 	judgments	made	in	the 	
prepara tion	of 	the	financial	sta tements	are	reasonab le .	
Howe v er , 	actual	outcomes	ma y 	dif f er 	from	those 	anticipa ted.
T he	 k e y	 assumptions	concer ning 	the 	future , 	and	other	k e y 	
sources	 of 	 estima tion	uncer tainty	 a t	 the	balance	sheet	da te ,	
tha t 	ha v e	a	significant	 risk	of 	causing	 a	ma terial	 adjustment 	
to 	the	 car r ying 	 amounts 	 of 	 assets	 and 	 liabilities , 	are	
discussed	below:
Valuation and asset lives of separately identifiable 
intangible assets
In 	order	 to	 deter mine 	the 	v alue 	of 	the 	separa tel y	identifiab le	
assets	 on	the 	acquisition	 of 	a	 b usiness	combina tion,	
management	are	 required 	 to	mak e	 estima tes	 w hen	utilising	
the	 Group’ s 	 v alua tion 	 methodologies . 	T hese 	 methodologies	
inc lude 	the 	use	 of 	 discounted	cash	 flows ,	 re v en ue	and	 profit	
bef ore 	tax 	m ultiples . 	 Asset	liv es 	 are	estima ted 	based 	 on 	 the	
na ture	of 	the 	intangib le 	asset	 acquired	and	range 	between 
1 	 and 	 5	y ear s 	and	indefinite	 liv es .
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets
T here 	 are	 a 	 n umber 	 of 	 assumptions	the	 Director s 	ha v e 	
considered	 in	 perf or ming 	 impair ment	re views 	of 	goodwill	
and	intangib le 	assets ,	 as	deter mining	w hether 	goodwill	 or 	
intangib le 	assets	 are	impaired 	requires	an	estima tion 	 of 	 the	
v alue 	in 	use	of 	 the	cash	 genera ting	 units	to	 w hic h 	goodwill	
has	been	alloca ted. 	T he 	v alue 	in 	use	calcula tion 	 requires	
Director s	 to	 estima te 	 the	 future	cash	flows 	e xpected 	to	arise	
from	 the	cash	 genera ting 	 unit	and	a	suitab le 	discount	 ra te 	
in 	order	 to	 calcula te 	net 	present	 v alue . 	Note	14	 details	the	
assumptions	tha t 	 ha v e 	been	applied.
Contingent consideration 
Contingent	considera tion	 rela ting	 to	 acquisitions	has	been	
inc luded 	based 	on	the 	fair	 v alue 	of 	the	 Director s 	estima tes 	
of 	the 	most	lik el y 	 outcome	 (notes 	 28,	 29 	 &	34).
 
Annual 	Report	and	Accounts	2013			87
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements 2. Significant accounting policies (continued) 
Deemed remuneration
Deemed	rem unera tion	represents	pa yments	made	f or	the	
acquisition	of 	b usinesses	 tha t 	are 	 dependent	on	contin uing	
emplo yment,	in 	accordance	with 	the	IFRS	Inter preta tions 	
Committee’ s	inter preta tion 	of 	paragraph	B55	of 	 IFRS3	
tha t 	 this	dependenc y	means	tha t	the y	should	be 	trea ted	
as	 rem unera tion	reg ardless 	of 	 other 	factor s . 	Last 	y ear	the	
accounting	polic y 	was	c hanged 	 to	reflect	this	decision	and	
the 	impact	disc losed. 	 Howe v er 	the 	Board 	remain 	concer ned 	
tha t 	 this	results	in	 capital	pa yments	f or	the	acquisitions	
of 	a 	b usiness 	being	c harged	as 	an	opera ting	e xpense ,	
w hic h 	does	not	proper l y 	reflect	the	under l ying 	economic	
substance .	T he 	c harge 	 f or 	the 	y ear 	f or 	deemed	rem unera tion 	
has	theref ore 	been 	 separa tel y 	disc losed 	to	assist	the 	
under standing	of 	the	reader s	of 	the	financial	sta tements .
Revenue and cost recognition on long-term contracts
R e v en ue	and	 costs 	are 	 recognised	on 	long	ter m 	 contracts	
b y	ref erence 	to 	the	stage	of 	completion	of 	activity	under	
tha t	contract	as 	a t 	the	balance	sheet	da te . 	Management	
has	 considered	the	stage	of 	completion 	 of 	eac h 	contract	
and	made	a	n umber	of 	assumptions 	in	order	to	estima te	
the 	rele v ant 	re v en ues 	and	costs	to 	recognise	under	 these	
contracts . 	 Management	 are 	sa tisfied 	tha t 	tha t 	the 	amounts	
recognised	in	2013	are 	appropria te 	 and 	consistent 	with	 the	
ter ms	of 	the	contracts 	 and	the	stage	of 	wor k 	completed.
Vacant property provisions
Pro visions 	f or 	proper ty 	represent 	amounts	set	 aside	in	
respect 	 of 	proper ty 	leases	w hic h 	are 	 onerous 	and	the 	
una v oidab le 	 costs 	of 	restoring	leasehold	proper ties 	to	the	
condition	specified	in	the	 lease	a t 	the	end	of 	the	contractual	
ter m. 	 T he 	quantifica tion 	 of 	eac h 	of 	the 	pro visions 	is	
deter mined	based 	on	the	Director s’ 	best	estima te 	 and 	is	
dependent	on	the	Group’ s 	ability 	 to	e xit 	 the	leases	ear l y 	
or	to	sub let 	the 	 proper ties . 	In	general, 	proper ty 	costs	are	
e xpected	to 	be	incur red 	o v er 	periods 	f or 	w hic h 	individual 	
proper ties	remain	v acant 	or , 	w here 	occupied, 	to	the 	
ter mina tion 	of 	 the 	leases	in	question.	
Basis of consolidation
T he 	consolida ted 	 financial 	sta tements 	incor pora te 	the 	
financial	sta tements 	of 	the	Compan y 	and	entities	controlled	
b y	the 	Compan y 	(its 	 subsidiaries)	made	up	to	31	December 	
eac h 	y ear . 	Control	is	ac hie v ed 	w here 	the	Compan y 	has	the	
power	to	 go v er n 	the 	 financial	and	opera ting 	 policies 	of 	an	
in v estee 	entity	so	 as	to	 obtain	benefits	from	its	activities .
On 	acquisition,	the 	assets	 and	liabilities	 and 	 contingent	
liabilities	 of 	a	subsidiar y 	 are	measured	 a t 	 their	fair 	v alues 	 a t 	
the	 da te 	 of 	 acquisition.	An y 	 e x cess 	of 	the 	cost	 of 	acquisition	
o v er 	the	 fair	 v alues	 of 	 the	 identifiab le 	net 	assets 	acquired	
is	recognised	 as	goodwill.	 An y	 deficienc y 	of 	 the	cost 	of 	
acquisition 	below	the 	fair	 v alues 	 of 	the	 identifiab le 	 net	 assets 	
acquired	 (i.e . 	discount	on	 acquisition) 	 is 	 credited	to	 the	
income	sta tement 	in 	the	 period	 of 	 acquisition.	T he 	 interest	of 	
non-controlling	 shareholder s 	 is 	 sta ted 	a t 	the	 non-controlling	
shareholder’ s 	propor tion 	 of 	the	 fair	 v alues	 of 	 the	 assets 	 and	
liabilities 	recognised.
T he 	 results	of 	 subsidiaries	acquired	 or	 disposed 	 of 	 during	
the 	y ear 	are	 inc luded 	 in	 the	 consolida ted 	 income 	 sta tement 	
from	 the	 ef f ectiv e 	 da te 	 of 	acquisition	or	 up	to	 the	 ef f ectiv e 	
da te 	of 	disposal,	 as	appropria te . 	F ollowing 	the 	adoption	
of 	 IAS 	 27	in 	2011,	 transactions 	 to	acquire 	non-controlling	
shareholder s’ 	 interests	 in 	 a	 subsidiar y	 are	 recorded	 in	 equity .
W here 	necessar y , 	 adjustments	are	 made	to 	the 	financial	
sta tements 	of 	subsidiaries 	to	 bring	 the	accounting 	policies	
used	into	 line	with	 those	 used 	 b y 	the 	Group .
All 	 intra-Group	 transactions ,	 balances ,	 income	 and	 e xpenses	
are	 elimina ted	on	consolida tion.
T he	 Director s 	ha v e , 	 a t 	 the	time 	of 	appro ving 	the	 financial	
sta tements , 	a	reasonab le 	e xpecta tion 	 tha t 	the	 Compan y 	
and	the	 Group	 ha v e 	adequa te 	 resources	to 	contin ue 	in	
opera tional	 e xistence 	f or 	 the	f oreseeab le 	 future . 	T he y 	
contin ue	to 	adopt	the 	going	 concer n 	 basis	 of 	 accounting	
in	 preparing	 the	financial	 sta tements . 	 Fur ther 	 detail	is	
contained	 in	 the	 Cor pora te 	Go v er nance 	R epor t 	 on	page	38.
Investments in associates
An	associa te 	is	an	 entity	o v er 	w hic h 	the	 Group	 is 	 in	 a	
position	 to	e x ercise 	significant	influence ,	 b ut 	 not	control	
or	 joint	 control,	 through	par ticipa tion 	in 	the 	financial	and	
opera ting	polic y	decisions	of 	 the	in v estee .
T he 	 results , 	assets 	and	liabilities	 of 	 associa tes 	are	
incor pora ted 	in 	these 	financial	sta tements 	using	 the	 equity	
method	 of 	 accounting	 e x cept 	 w hen 	 c lassified 	as	 held	f or 	
sale .	 In v estments 	 in	 associa tes 	are	 car ried 	 in	 the	balance	
sheet	 a t 	 cost	as	 adjusted	 b y 	post-acquisition	 c hanges 	in 	
the	 Group’ s 	 share	of 	the 	net	 assets	 of 	 the	 associa te , 	 less 	
an y	 impair ment 	in 	the 	v alue 	of 	individual 	in v estments . 	
Losses	of 	 the	associa tes 	 in	e x cess 	of 	the 	Group’ s 	 interest	in 	
those	 associa tes 	are	 not	 recognised,	unless 	the 	Group	has	
incur red	a	 leg al 	 or	 constr uctiv e 	ob lig a tion 	 or	made	 pa yments 	
on	 behalf 	 of 	the	 associa te .
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
88			 Chime	Communications	 plc An y 	e x cess 	 of 	the	cost	of 	acquisition	o v er 	the 	Group’ s	
share	of 	 the 	fair 	v alues	of 	the	identifiab le 	net 	assets	 of 	
the	associa te 	a t 	the	da te 	of 	acquisition	is	recognised	
as	 goodwill 	 and 	is 	inc luded 	in	 the	car r ying 	v alue	of 	 the	
in v estment.	An y	deficienc y 	of 	the 	cost	of 	acquisition	 below 	
the	Group’ s	share	of 	the	 fair 	v alues	of 	the	identifiab le	
net	 assets	of 	the	associa te 	a t 	the	da te 	of 	acquisition	 (i.e . 	
discount	 on 	acquisition)	is	credited	in	the	 income 	sta tement	
in	the 	 period	of 	acquisition.
W here 	a	group	 compan y 	transacts	with	an 	associa te 	of 	the 	
Group ,	unrealised	profits 	and 	losses 	are 	 elimina ted	to 	the	
e xtent	of 	the	Group’ s	interest	in	the 	rele v ant 	associa te .
Other investments
Other	in v estments	represent	in v estments 	 in	equity	securities 	
tha t	present	the 	 Group	with	oppor tunity 	f or 	retur n 	through	
dividend 	 income 	 and	trading 	g ains . 	T he y 	ha v e 	no	fix ed 	
ma turity 	 or 	 coupon 	 ra te . 	 T he 	 fair 	 v alues 	 of 	 the 	 listed 	 securities 
are 	based	on 	quoted	mar k et	prices .	F or 	unlisted	securities , 	
w here	 mar k et 	v alue 	is	not	a v ailab le ,	the 	Group	estima tes 	
rele v ant 	 fair 	 v alues 	 on 	 the 	 basis 	 of 	 pub lic l y 	 a v ailab le 	 inf or ma tion 
from 	 outside 	sources .	W here	this	is	not 	possib le ,	in v estments 	
are	held	a t	cost	and	are	re viewed	f or	impair ment.
Other 	in v estments 	are 	 designa ted 	as 	‘a v ailab le 	f or 	sale’	 and 	
are	shown	a t	fair	v alue	with	an y 	mo v ements	in	fair	v alue 	
tak en 	to 	equity .
On 	disposal	the	cum ula tiv e 	g ain 	or 	loss	pre viousl y	
recognised	in 	equity	is	inc luded	within	the 	profit	or	 loss	 f or	
the	y ear . 	Impair ment	losses	recognised	in	profit	or	loss	 f or 	
equity	in v estments	c lassified	as	‘a v ailab le 	f or 	sale’	are	 not	
subsequentl y 	re v er sed	through 	profit 	or 	loss .
Goodwill
Goodwill 	 arising	on	consolida tion 	represents	the 	e x cess 	
of 	the 	 fair	v alue	of 	considera tion	o v er 	the 	Group’ s	interest	
in	the	fair	v alue 	of 	the	identifiab le 	assets , 	liabilities	and	
contingent 	liabilities	recognised.	Goodwill	is	recognised	 as	
an 	asset 	 and 	re viewed 	 f or 	 impair ment 	a t 	 least	ann uall y . 	An y 	
impair ment 	 is 	 recognised	in	the	income	sta tement 	and	is	not 	
subsequentl y	re v er sed.
Goodwill 	arising	on	acquisitions	bef ore 	the	da te 	of 	 transition	
to	 IFRSs 	has	been	retained	a t 	 the	pre vious	UK 	 GAAP	
amounts	subject	to	being 	tested 	 f or 	impair ment 	 a t 	 tha t 	
da te . 	Goodwill	 written	of f 	to	reser v es 	under	UK 	GAAP	prior	
to	 1998	has	 not 	been 	reinsta ted 	and	is	not	inc luded 	in 	
deter mining 	an y 	subsequent 	profit	or 	loss	 on	disposal.
F or 	 acquisitions 	 accounted 	 f or 	 under 	 IFRS 	 3 	 the 	 considera tion 
used 	in	the	calcula tion 	of 	goodwill	inc ludes 	third	par ty 	 costs	
incur red	to	ef f ect 	the	acquisition.	 F ollowing 	the 	adoption	 of 	
IFRS 	3	(re vised) 	(acquisitions 	from	1	J an uar y 	2010)	these	
costs 	are	e xpensed 	through	the	income	sta tement 	and	
inc luded	 in	costs 	of 	acquisitions .
On 	disposal	of 	 a 	 subsidiar y 	or	 associa te , 	 the	a ttrib utab le 	
amount	 of 	 goodwill	 is 	 inc luded 	 in	 the	deter mina tion 	of 	 the	
profit	or 	loss 	on	disposal.
F or 	acquisitions 	accounted	f or 	 under	IFRS	3, 	future	
anticipa ted	pa yments	to 	v endor s	 in	 respect	of 	 ear nouts 	
are	based 	on	the 	Director s’ 	best 	estima tes 	of 	the	fair	
v alue	 of 	 future	ob lig a tions ,	w hic h 	are	 dependent	on	 future	
perf or mance 	of 	the 	interests	acquired	 and 	 assume 	 the	
opera ting 	 companies	impro v e	 profits 	 in	 line	with 	Director s’ 	
estima tes	 and 	 are	inc luded	 in	liabilities 	grea ter	or	less	 than 	
one 	 y ear	 as	appropria te . 	
F ollowing 	 the	adoption 	of 	IFRS	 3	(re vised), 	c hanges 	to	
ear nouts	are 	recorded	in 	the 	income	sta tement 	through	
costs	of 	 acquisitions . 	 In	 this 	 instance , 	 w hen	 ear nouts 	are	
to	be	 settled	in 	cash	or 	share	 considera tion, 	 the	fair	v alue 	
of 	 the	 considera tion 	is	obtained	 b y	discounting	 to	present	
v alue	 the	amounts 	e xpected	 to	 be 	 pa y ab le 	 in	 the 	 future .	T he	
resulting	interest	c harge	 is 	 inc luded 	 within	finance	costs	 of 	
def er red 	 considera tion. 	
W hen	a	 b usiness 	is	acquired	 from	f or mer 	shareholder s 	
w ho 	 become	emplo y ees	of 	 the	Group ,	 should	their	ear n 	out	
pa yments 	 be 	 dependent 	 on	contin uing 	emplo yment 	then	all	
pa yments 	 are	trea ted	 as	rem unera tion 	f or	 post	acquisition	
ser vices . 	 T his 	 is 	 a	c hange 	to 	the	 pre viousl y 	adopted	polic y 	
of 	 the	 Group	and	is	as	 a	result	 of 	the	 pub lica tion	in	J an uar y 	
2013 	 of 	the	 IFRS	IC	 Upda te 	 of 	 the	Committee’ s 	agenda	
decision 	 on	IFRS	3	 Business	Combina tions–Contin uing 	
emplo yment. 	
T he	c harge 	 to	 the	income	sta tement 	is	inc luded 	in	 deemed	
rem unera tion 	 and 	 the	 fair	v alue	 of 	 the	liability	 is 	 inc luded 	as	
deemed 	 rem unera tion 	 in	 the	 balance	sheet,	c lassified 	as 	
cur rent 	 or	 non-cur rent 	 liabilities	 as	appropria te .
In 	 accordance 	 with	IFRS	 an	impair ment 	 c harge 	is	required	
f or 	both	 goodwill	 and 	 other 	 indefinite	liv ed	assets	w hen 	 the	
car r ying 	 amount	 e x ceeds 	 the	 ‘reco v erab le 	 amount’,	defined	
as	the	 higher	 of 	 fair	 v alue 	 less	 costs	to 	sell	 and 	 v alue 	in	use . 	
Our 	 approac h 	in	 deter mining 	 the	 reco v erab le 	 amount	utilises	
a	discounted	 cash	flow	 methodology , 	w hic h	 necessaril y	
in v olv es 	making	 n umerous 	 estima tes 	 and	assumptions	
reg arding	 re v en ue 	growth,	 opera ting	margins , 	tax	ra tes ,	
appropria te	 discount	 ra tes 	 and	 wor king	 capital	 requirements .	
T hese	estima tes	will 	lik el y	 dif f er 	 from	future	 actual	results	
of 	opera tions 	and	cash	 flows , 	 and 	 it	is	possib le 	tha t 	these	
dif f erences	 could	be	ma terial.	In 	addition,	 judgments	are	
applied	 in	deter mining 	the 	le v el 	of 	 cash-genera ting 	unit	 we	
identify 	 f or 	impair ment 	 testing	 and 	 the	criteria	 we	use	to	
deter mine	 w hic h 	assets 	should	 be 	 ag greg a ted.
 
Annual 	Report	and	Accounts	2013			89
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
2. Significant accounting policies (continued) 
Revenue recognition
R e v en ue	is	measured 	a t 	 the	fair	v alue	of 	the 	considera tion	
receiv ed	or	receiv ab le	and	comprises	the	gross	amounts	
billed 	to	c lients 	in	respect	of 	f ees 	ear ned, 	e xpenses 	
rec harged	and	commission-based	income . 	R e v en ue 	is	
recognised	in	the	income	sta tement 	 w hen	the 	economic	
benefits	arising	from	an	ar rangement	are	probab le .
R e v en ue	is	largel y 	deriv ed 	from	retainer	f ees 	and	ser vices 	
perf or med	subject	to 	specific	agreement.	R e v en ue 	is	
recognised	w hen	the	ser vice	is	perf or med 	in	accordance	
with	the	contractual	ar rangement 	through 	an 	assessment 	
of 	the	time	incur red 	to 	da te 	compared 	to	the 	total	hour s 	
required	to 	complete	the	contract, 	and 	 an	assessment	of 	
the 	v alue 	deliv ered 	 to	the	c lient 	compared	to	the 	total	v alue 	
of 	the	contract. 	If 	the	outcome	of 	these	can	 be 	assessed 	
with 	 reasonab le 	cer tainty , 	re v en ue 	and	rela ted	costs	are	
recognised 	 in	the	income	sta tement. 	Losses 	are	recognised	
as	soon	as	the y	are	f oreseen.
Opera ting	income	is	re v en ue 	 less	amounts	pa y ab le 	on	
behalf 	of 	 c lients 	to 	e xter nal 	 supplier s 	w here 	 the y 	are 	
retained	to 	perf or m	par t 	of 	a 	specific 	c lient	project 	or 	
ser vice , 	 and	represents	f ees , 	commissions 	and 	 mar k-ups 
on 	 rec hargeab le 	e xpenses 	and	mar k eting 	 products .
Contractual 	ar rangements 	are 	re viewed 	to	 ascer tain 	w hether 	
the	group	acts	as 	principal	or 	 agent	with	reg ards 	 to	third	
par ty	costs . 	If 	the	rela tionship 	is	tha t 	of 	agent	then	the	
rec harge 	of 	third	par ty 	costs 	is	not	recognised	through 	
re v en ue 	or 	cost 	 of 	sales .
R e v en ue 	 and	opera ting 	income	are 	 sta ted 	e x c lusiv e 	of 	V A T , 	
sales	tax es 	and 	trade 	discounts .
Long-term contracts
W here 	the	outcome 	of 	a	long-ter m	contract	f or 	ser vices	
or	 goods	can	be	estima ted 	reliab l y , 	re v en ue 	and	costs	are	
recognised	b y	ref erence	to	the 	stage	of 	completion 	of 	the 	
contract 	activity	a t 	the	balance	sheet	da te . 	
T he 	stage	of 	completion 	is	deter mined 	through 	an	
assessment	of 	the	propor tion 	of 	ser vices 	tha t 	ha v e 	been	
deliv ered	compared	to	the 	total	ser vices 	required	to	
complete	the	contract, 	e x cept 	w here 	this	would	not	be	
representa tiv e 	of 	the	stage	of 	completion.
V aria tions	 in	contract 	wor k, 	c laims	 and 	incentiv e 	pa yments	
are	inc luded 	to 	the	e xtent 	tha t 	the	amount	can 	be	measured	
reliab l y 	 and 	its	receipt	is	considered	probab le .
W here 	 the	outcome	of 	 a	contract	cannot	be	estima ted 	
reliab l y , 	 contract 	re v en ue 	is	recognised	to	the	 e xtent 	of 	
contract	costs	incur red 	w here 	it	is	probab le 	the y 	will	be	
reco v erab le . 	Contract	costs	are	recognised	as	e xpenses 	 in	
the	 period	 in	w hic h 	 the y	are	incur red.
W hen	 it	is	probab le	 tha t 	total	 contract	costs 	will	 e x ceed 	total	
contract	 re v en ue , 	 the	 e xpected 	 loss	 is 	 recognised	as	 an	
e xpense	immedia tel y . 	
Leasing
Leases	are 	c lassified 	as	 finance 	 leases	 w hene v er 	 the	 ter ms 	
of 	the 	lease	 transf er 	 substantiall y 	all	 the	 risks	and	rewards	
of 	owner ship 	to	 the	 lessee .	All	 other 	 leases	 are	c lassified	as	
opera ting	leases .
Assets 	 held	under	 finance 	 leases	 and 	 the	rela ted 	 lease	
ob lig a tions	are 	recorded	in 	the 	balance	sheet 	a t 	the	 fair	
v alue 	of 	the 	leased	 assets	 a t 	 the	inception	 of 	 the	 leases	
or , 	if 	 lower ,	 the	 present	v alue	of 	 minim um 	lease	 pa yments .	
T he	 e x cess 	 of 	 the	 lease	pa yments 	o v er 	the 	recorded	
lease 	ob lig a tions 	is	trea ted 	 as	finance	c harges 	 w hic h 	are	
amor tised	 o v er 	eac h 	 lease	 ter m 	to	 giv e 	a	 constant 	 ra te 	of 	
c harge	 on	the	 remaining	balance	 of 	the	 ob lig a tion.
R ental	 costs	under	 opera ting 	 leases	 are	c harged 	to 	the	
income	sta tement 	in 	equal	 ann ual 	 amounts	 o v er 	the 	periods	
of 	 the	leases .
Benefits 	 receiv ed 	and	receiv ab le 	as	an	 incentiv e 	to 	enter	 into 	
an	 opera ting 	 lease	 are	also 	spread	on	 a	straight-line	basis	
o v er 	the 	lease	 ter m.
Foreign currencies 
T ransactions 	 in	 UK	companies 	denomina ted 	in 	cur rencies 	
other	than 	pounds	 ster ling 	 are	recorded	 a t 	 the	ra tes 	 of 	
e x c hange 	 pre v ailing 	 on	the 	da tes	 of 	 the	 transactions .	 At 	
eac h	 balance	sheet	 da te , 	monetar y 	assets 	and	liabilities	 tha t 	
are 	denomina ted	in	 f oreign 	 cur rencies 	 are	retransla ted	 a t 	the	
ra tes 	 pre v ailing 	 on	the	 balance	sheet 	da te . 	 Gains	and	losses	
arising	 on	retransla tion	 are	 inc luded	 in	 net	profit	or 	loss	f or	
the 	period.	Non-monetar y 	items	 tha t 	are	 measured	in 	ter ms 	
of 	 historical	cost	 in	 a	f oreign	 cur renc y 	 are	not	 retransla ted.
On	consolida tion, 	 the	assets 	and	liabilities 	of 	the 	Group’ s 	
o v er seas 	 opera tions 	 are	transla ted 	a t 	the 	e x c hange 	ra tes 
pre v ailing 	 on 	 the	 balance	sheet	 da te . 	Income	and	e xpenses 	
are 	transla ted 	 a t 	 the	 a v erage 	e x c hange 	ra tes 	 f or 	the	 period	
unless 	e x c hange 	ra tes 	 fluctua te 	 significantl y . 	Ex c hange 	
dif f erences 	arising , 	if 	 an y , 	 are	c lassified 	 as	equity	and	
transf er red 	 to 	 the 	 Group’ s 	 transla tion 	 reser v e . 	 Suc h 	 transla tion 
reser v e 	 dif f erences 	 are 	 recognised 	 as 	 income 	 or 	 as 	 e xpenses 
in 	the 	period	 in	 w hic h 	 the	opera tion 	 is 	 disposed 	 of .
T ransla tion 	 dif f erences 	on	 non-monetar y 	 financial 	 assets 
and 	liabilities 	are	 repor ted 	as	 par t 	of 	the 	fair	 v alue 	 g ain 	
or 	loss . 	T ransla tion 	dif f erences 	on	non-monetar y 	 financial	
assets , 	suc h 	 as 	 in v estments 	in 	equity	securities	c lassified 
as 	 a v ailab le 	f or 	 sale , 	are 	inc luded 	in 	the	 fair	 v alue 	 reser v e 
in 	equity .
Goodwill 	 and 	 fair 	 v alue 	 adjustments 	 arising 	 on 	 the 	 acquisition 
of 	 a 	 f oreign 	 entity	are 	trea ted 	as	 assets	 and 	 liabilities	of 	the	
f oreign 	entity	 and 	 transla ted 	 a t 	 the	c losing 	 ra te . 	
90			 Chime	Communications	 plc Finance costs
Finance 	 costs ,	w hic h 	 inc lude	interest	and	bank 	c harges , 	are	
recognised	in	the	income 	sta tement	in 	the	y ear	in	w hic h	 the y	
are	incur red.
Operating profit
Opera ting 	profit	is 	sta ted 	bef ore 	the 	share 	 of 	results	of 	
associa te ,	in v estment	income	and	finance	costs . 	
Retirement benefit costs 
T he 	pension	cost	is	the	amount 	of 	contrib utions 	pa y ab le 	b y	
the	Group 	to	the	defined 	contrib ution	pension	sc heme	 and 	
to	per sonal 	pension	sc hemes 	 of 	cer tain 	emplo y ees 	 during	
the	accounting	period.	T hese 	are	c harged 	as	an	e xpense 	as	
the y	fall	due .
Long-term incentive schemes
T he 	 group 	 opera tes 	 a 	 n umber 	 of 	 long 	 ter m 	 incentiv e 	 sc hemes 
to 	rem unera te 	cer tain	emplo y ees . 	 Benefits	accr uing	 under	
these	 sc hemes 	are	recognised	in	the	income	sta tement 	a t 	
fair 	v alue 	as	 the y 	are	accr ued.
Taxation
T he 	tax 	e xpense 	represents	the 	sum	of 	the 	tax	cur rentl y	
pa y ab le 	and 	 def er red 	tax.
T he 	tax 	cur rentl y 	pa y ab le 	 is 	 based	on	taxab le 	profit	f or 	the	
y ear . 	T axab le 	profit 	dif f er s 	from	net 	profit	as	repor ted 	in 	the 	
income	sta tement 	because	it	e x c ludes 	items	of 	income	 or	
e xpense	tha t	are 	taxab le 	or	deductib le 	in 	other 	 y ear s	 and 	 it	
fur ther	e x c ludes 	items	tha t 	 are 	ne v er 	taxab le 	or	deductib le . 	
T he	Group’ s 	liability	 f or 	 cur rent 	tax 	is	calcula ted 	using	tax 	
ra tes 	 tha t 	 ha v e 	 been	 enacted	 or 	 substantiv el y 	 enacted	 b y	 the 	
balance	sheet	da te .
Def er red 	tax	 is 	 the	tax	e xpected 	to	be	pa y ab le 	or	
reco v erab le 	on 	dif f erences 	between	the 	car r ying 	amounts	
of 	assets	and	liabilities	in	the 	financial 	 sta tements 	and 	 the	
cor responding	tax	bases	used	in	the	 computa tion 	 of 	taxab le 	
profit,	and	is	accounted 	 f or 	using 	the 	balance	sheet	 liability	
method.	Def er red	tax	liabilities 	are 	generall y 	recognised 	
f or	all	taxab le 	temporar y 	dif f erences 	and	def er red 	tax	
assets 	are	recognised	to	the 	e xtent 	tha t 	it	is	probab le 	tha t 	
taxab le 	profits	 will 	 be 	a v ailab le 	ag ainst 	w hic h 	deductib le 	
temporar y	dif f erences 	can 	be 	utilised.	Suc h 	assets	 and	
liabilities 	are	not	recognised	if 	the	temporar y 	dif f erence 	
arises	from	goodwill	or 	from	the 	initial	recognition 	(other	 than	
in	a	 b usiness 	combina tion) 	of 	other	assets 	and	liabilities	
in	a	 transaction	tha t 	af f ects 	neither	 the	tax	profit	nor 	 the	
accounting	profit.
Def er red 	tax	 liabilities	are	recognised	f or 	taxab le 	temporar y 	
dif f erences 	arising	 on	in v estments 	in	subsidiaries	and	
associa tes , 	and	 interests	in	joint 	v entures , 	e x cept 	 w here 	
the	Group 	is	ab le 	to	control	the 	re v er sal 	 of 	the 	temporar y 	
dif f erence 	and	 it	is	probab le 	tha t 	the 	temporar y 	dif f erence 	
will 	not	re v er se 	in	the	f oreseeab le 	future .
T he	 car r ying 	 amount 	 of 	 def er red 	 tax	assets 	is	re viewed 	a t 	
eac h	balance	 sheet	 da te 	and	reduced	to 	the	 e xtent 	 tha t 	it	
is	no	longer 	probab le	 tha t 	suf ficient 	 taxab le	 profits	will	 be	
a v ailab le	 to	 allow	all	 or	 par t 	of 	the	 asset	 to	 be 	 reco v ered.
Def er red	 tax	 is 	 calcula ted 	a t 	the	 tax	 ra tes 	tha t 	are	e xpected 	
to 	appl y	 in	the 	period 	w hen	the	 liability	is	settled	 or	the	
asset	 is 	 realised.	 Def er red	tax 	is	c harged	or 	credited	 in 	 the	
income	sta tement, 	 e x cept	w hen 	 it	rela tes	 to	 items	c harged	 or 	
credited	directl y 	to 	equity , 	in 	w hic h 	case	the 	def er red 	tax	is	
also 	dealt	with 	in	 equity .
Other intangible assets
Other 	 intangib le 	 assets	comprise	 acquired	customer	
rela tionships	and	 contracts ,	 brands	and	computer	 software .	
Customer 	 rela tionships , 	 contracts 	 and 	 cor pora te 	 brand 	 names	 
acquired 	 as	par t	 of 	 acquisitions	 of 	 b usiness	are 	capitalised	
separa tel y 	 from 	 goodwill 	 as 	 an 	 intangib le 	 if 	 their 	 v alue 	 can 	 be	 
measured 	 reliab l y	on	initial	recognition	 and	it	is	probab le	tha t	
the 	 e xpected 	 future 	 economic 	 benefit 	 tha t 	 are 	 a ttrib utab le 	 to 	 the	 
asset 	 will 	 flow 	 to 	 the 	 Group . 	 Corpora te 	 brands 	 are 	 considered 	 to	 
ha v e 	 indefinite 	 economic 	 lif e 	 and 	 are 	 theref ore 	 tested 	 ann uall y	 
f or 	 impair ment. 	 Computer 	 software 	 is 	 capitalised 	 based 	 on 	 the	 
cost 	 incur red 	 to 	 acquire 	 and 	 bring 	 to 	 use 	 the 	 specific 	 software .	 
Intangib le	 assets	 are	sta ted 	 a t 	cost 	net 	of 	amor tisa tion 	and 	
an y	 pro vision 	 f or 	impair ment. 	T he 	 costs	 are	amor tised 	o v er 	
their	 estima ted 	 useful 	 liv es 	using	 the	 f ollowing 	ra tes:
Computer 	 software	 4 	y ear s
Customer 	contracts	and	rela tionships	 1 	 –	5 	y ear s
Brand 	names	 Indefinite	lif e
Property, plant and equipment
Proper ty , 	 plant 	 and	equipment	are	 sta ted 	 a t	 cost	net	 of 	
deprecia tion	 and 	 an y 	pro vision 	f or 	 impair ment. 	 Deprecia tion 	
is	pro vided 	in 	equal	 installments	 to	write	 of f 	the 	cost	less 	
residual	 v alue 	 o v er 	 the	estima ted 	useful	economic	 liv es 	of 	
asset	 type	 as 	 f ollows:
Shor t-ter m 	 leasehold 	 impro v ements	 5 	y ear s
Motor 	 v ehic les	 6 	y ear s
Fixtures , 	 fittings	and	equipment	 4 	y ear s
Assets 	 held	under	 finance 	 leases	 are	deprecia ted 	o v er 	their	
e xpected	 useful 	 liv es 	on	the 	same	 basis	as	 owned	assets	 or , 	
w here	 shor ter , 	 the	ter m 	 of 	the	 rele v ant 	 lease .
T he 	 g ain	or 	loss 	arising	 on 	 the	 disposal 	 of 	 an 	 asset	is	
deter mined 	 as	the	 dif f erence 	between	the 	sales 	proceeds	
and	the 	car r ying 	 amount	 of 	the	 asset	 and 	 is 	 recognised 	 in	
the	 income 	 sta tement.
 
Annual 	Report	and	Accounts	2013			91
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
2. Significant accounting policies (continued) 
Impair ment 	of 	proper ty , 	plant	and	equipment	and	intangib le 	
assets	e x c luding 	goodwill.
At 	 eac h 	balance	 sheet	da te , 	the	Group 	re views 	the	car r ying 	
amounts	of 	its	 tangib le	and	intangib le	assets	to 	deter mine 	
w hether	there	is	an y	indica tion 	tha t	those 	assets	ha v e	
suf f ered	 an 	impair ment 	loss .	If 	an y 	suc h	indica tion 	e xists , 	
the 	reco v erab le 	amount	of 	the	asset	 is 	 estima ted 	in	order	
to	deter mine 	 the 	e xtent 	 of 	the 	impair ment 	loss	 (if 	an y). 	
W here 	the	asset	does	not	genera te	cash	flows	 tha t 	are 	
independent 	from	other	assets ,	the	Group 	estima tes	the	
reco v erab le 	amount	of 	the	cash-genera ting 	 unit	to	w hic h 	 the	
asset 	belongs . 	An	 intangib le 	asset 	with	an	indefinite	useful	
lif e	is	tested	f or 	impair ment 	ann uall y 	or	w hene v er 	there	is 	 an	
indica tion 	tha t 	the	asset	ma y 	be	impaired.
R eco v erab le 	amount	is	the	 higher	of 	fair 	v alue 	less	costs	
to	 sell	and	 v alue 	in	use . 	 In	assessing	v alue 	 in	use , 	the 	
estima ted	 future	cash	flows	are	discounted	to 	their 	present	
v alue 	using	a 	pre-tax	discount	ra te 	tha t 	reflects	cur rent 	
mar k et 	assessments	of 	 the 	time 	v alue 	of 	mone y 	and 	the	
risks	specific	to	the	asset	 f or 	 w hic h 	estima tes 	of 	 future 	 cash 	
flows 	ha v e	not	been	adjusted.
If 	the	 reco v erab le 	amount	 of 	an 	asset	(or	cash-genera ting 	
unit) 	is	estima ted 	to 	be	less	than	its	car r ying 	amount,	the	
car r ying 	 amount	of 	the	asset	(cash-genera ting 	unit)	is	
reduced	to 	its	reco v erab le 	amount.	An	impair ment 	loss	
is	immedia tel y 	recognised	as	an 	e xpense 	in 	the	income	
sta tement.
W here 	an	impair ment 	loss 	 subsequentl y 	re v er ses , 	the	
car r ying 	 amount	of 	the	asset	(cash-genera ting 	unit)	is	
increased	to 	the	re vised 	estima te 	of 	its	reco v erab le 	amount,	
b ut	so 	tha t 	the	increased	car r ying 	amount	does	not 	e x ceed 	
the	car r ying 	amount 	tha t 	would	ha v e 	been	deter mined 	had	
no 	impair ment 	loss 	been	recognised	f or 	 the	asset	(cash-
genera ting 	unit)	in 	prior 	y ear s .
Work in progress
W or k 	in	progress	is	sta ted 	a t 	the	lower 	of 	in v oiced 	cost 	
and	 net	realisab le 	v alue , 	net	of 	pa yments 	receiv ed 	on 	
account.	Cost 	represents	wor k 	supplied	from	outside	the	
Group	 a waiting 	billing 	 to	c lients 	a t 	the	y ear -end 	and	directl y 	
a ttrib utab le 	o v erhead 	costs .
Provisions
Pro visions 	are 	recognised	w hen 	the	Group	has 	a	present	
ob lig a tion 	 as	a	result 	of 	a	past	e v ent 	and	it	is	probab le 	tha t 	
the	Group 	 will 	be	 required 	to 	settle	tha t 	ob lig a tion, 	and	are	
discounted	 to	present 	v alue	w here	the 	ef f ect 	 is 	 ma terial.
Financial instruments
Financial 	assets	 and	financial	liabilities 	are	 recognised	on	
the	Group’ s 	balance	sheet 	w hen 	the 	Group	 becomes	a 	par ty 	
to	the 	contractual	 pro visions 	 of 	the	 instr ument.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash 	comprises	 cash,	o v erdrafts 	(w here 	 the	 group 	 has	
f or mal 	 right	of 	set 	of f) 	 and	cash	held	 on	shor t-ter m 	deposit	
(up	to	 three 	 months).	 Cash	 equiv alents	are	 cash	deposits	
held	on	three	months	 deposit	a t 	the 	R o y al 	Bank	of 	 Scotland 	
plc .	T he 	 deposits	 guarantee	the 	loan	 note	 creditor s .	 Interest	
accr uing	 on 	 the	 deposits	 are	pa y ab le 	to	 the	 holder s 	 of 	the	
loan	notes 	less	 an y	 costs	arising .
Trade receivables
T rade 	receiv ab les 	 do 	 not	 car r y 	an y 	interest	and	are	 sta ted 	a t 	
their	nominal	 v alue 	 as	reduced 	b y 	 appropria te 	allowances	
f or 	estima ted 	 ir reco v erab le 	amounts . 	
Investments
In v estments 	 are	recognised	 and 	 derecognised 	 on	a	 trade	
da te	w here 	 a	purc hase 	or 	sale	 of 	an	in v estment 	is	under	
contract 	 w hose 	ter ms 	 require 	 the	 deliv er y 	 of 	 the	 in v estment 	
within 	 the	 timeframe	estab lished	 b y 	the 	mar k et 	 concer ned, 
and 	 are 	 initiall y 	 measured 	 a t 	 cost, 	 inc luding 	 transaction 	 costs .
In v estments 	 are	c lassified 	 either	as	 a v ailab le 	f or 	 sale , 	
and 	 are	measured	 a t 	 subsequent 	 repor ting 	 da tes	a t	fair	
v alue , 	or 	a t 	amor tised 	cost,	 w here 	 no	fair	 v alue 	is	readil y 	
deter minab le . 	 Gains 	 and 	 losses	 on	a v ailab le 	 f or 	sale 	
financial 	 assets	arising	 from	c hanges 	in 	fair 	v alue 	are	
recognised	directl y 	in 	equity , 	until 	the	 security	is	disposed 	of 	
or	 is 	 deter mined 	 to	 be 	 impaired,	 a t 	 w hic h 	 time 	 the	 cum ula tiv e 	
g ain 	or	 loss	 pre viousl y 	recognised	 in	 equity 	 is 	 inc luded 	in	the 	
net 	profit 	or	 loss	 f or 	the	 period.
Bank borrowings
Interest	bearing	 bank	loans	 and 	 o v erdrafts 	 are	recorded 	a t 	
the 	fair	 v alue 	 of 	proceeds 	receiv ed, 	net	 of 	direct	issue 	costs .
Trade payables
T rade 	pa y ab les 	 are	 not	interest-bearing	 and 	 are	sta ted 	a t 	
their 	nominal	 v alue .
Equity instruments
Equity 	instr uments 	issued	 b y 	the	 Compan y 	are	 recorded	a t 	
the 	fair	 v alue 	of 	proceeds	receiv ed, 	net 	of 	direct	 issue	costs .
Share-based payments
T he 	Group	 has	applied 	the	 requirements 	 of 	 IFRS	2	Share-
based 	P a yments . 	IFRS	2	 has	been	applied	 to	 all	grants	of 	
equity 	 instr uments 	after	 7	No v ember 	 2002 	 tha t 	were	in v ested 	
as 	 of 	1	J an uar y 	2005.
92			 Chime	Communications	 plc T he	 Group 	issues	equity-settled	share-based 	pa yments 	 to	
cer tain 	emplo y ees . 	Equity-settled	share-based 	pa yments 	
are	measured	a t 	fair	v alue 	 a t 	the	da te 	of 	grant. 	T he 	fair	 v alue 	
deter mined 	a t	the	grant	da te 	of 	the	equity-settled	share-
based 	pa yments 	is	 e xpensed	on	a	straight-line	basis	o v er	
the	v esting	period,	based	on	 the	Group’ s	 estima te	of 	shares 	
tha t 	will 	e v entuall y 	v est 	and	adjusted 	f or 	the 	ef f ect 	 of 	 non-
mar k et 	based	v esting	conditions .
F air 	v alue	is	measured	f or	all	sc hemes	with	mar k et-based 	
conditions	b y 	use	of 	 the	Monte	Car lo 	model.	F or 	all 	other	
sc hemes ,	fair 	v alue 	is	measured 	 b y	use 	of 	the	Blac k-
Sc holes	model. 	T he	e xpected 	lif e 	used	in	the 	model	 has 	
been	adjusted,	based	on	 management’ s 	best	estima te , 	 f or 	
the	ef f ects	of 	 non-transf erability ,	e x ercise 	restrictions ,	 and 	
beha vioural	considera tions .
A	liability	equal	 to	 the	 por tion	of 	the 	goods 	or	 ser vices	
receiv ed 	is	recognised	 a t	 the	 cur rent 	 fair	 v alue 	 deter mined	
a t	 eac h	balance	 sheet	da te	 f or	cash-settled 	share-based	
pa yments .
T he 	Group 	also 	pro vides 	emplo y ees	 with	 the	 ability	to	
purc hase	the	 Group’ s 	 ordinar y	 shares	a t 	80%	 of 	the	cur rent	
mar k et	 v alue . 	 T he	Group 	records	 an	e xpense , 	based	on	its	
estima te 	of 	the	 20%	discount	rela ted 	 to	 shares	e xpected 	to	
v est	on	 a	straight-line	basis	 o v er 	 the	 v esting	period.	Fur ther 	
details	are 	inc luded 	in 	note	 36	to 	the	 accounts .
Standards not affecting the reported results nor the financial position
At 	the	da te	 of 	the	 authorisa tion 	of 	these 	financial	 sta tements ,	the 	f ollowing 	 Standards	and	Inter preta tions 	w hic h	ha v e 	not	
been	applied 	in	these	 financial	sta tements	were	in	issue 	b ut 	not	 y et 	ef f ectiv e 	 (and	in 	some	 cases	had	not	 y et	been	adopted	
b y	the	EU):
Standard
IFRS 	1 	(amended)	 Go v er nment	Loans
IFRS 	9	 Financial	 Instr uments
IAS 	27	(re vised)	 Separa te	 Financial	Sta tements
IAS 	32	(amended)	 Of fsetting 	Financial	 Assets	and	Financial	 Liabilities
IFRIC	20	 Stripping	Costs	 in	 the	 Production	Phase	of 	 a	Surface	 Mine
T he	director s	do	not	e xpect	tha t	the	adoption 	of 	the	 standards	listed 	abo v e 	will 	ha v e	 a	ma terial 	impact	 on	the 	financial	
sta tements	of 	 the 	Group	 in	future	periods , 	e x cept 	 as	f ollows:
•	 IFRS 	9	will 	impact	both	the	measurement	and	disc losures	of 	Financial	 Instr uments .
 
Annual 	Report	and	Accounts	2013			93
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
3. Business and geographical segments
Business segments
Segmental reporting
F or 	management	pur poses , 	 the	Group	is	cur rentl y 	org anised 	
into	fiv e 	opera ting 	segments:	Spor t 	& 	Enter tainment, 	
Ad v er tising	 and	Mar k eting 	Ser vices ,	Pub lic	R ela tions , 	
Healthcare ,	and 	Insight	and	Eng agement.
Principal	activities	are	as	f ollows:
Sport & Entertainment
T he 	Spor t 	 &	Enter tainment 	division 	is	the	fastest	growing	
Spor t 	 &	Enter tainment 	group	in	the 	wor ld,	and	inc ludes 	
ICON ,	the	 Essentiall y	Group ,	iL UKA,	F ast 	T rac k 	and 	 most	
recentl y 	JMI. 	In	the	UK	mar k et, 	F ast 	T rac k 	and 	Essentiall y 	are	
n umber 	one	and 	 n umber 	two	respectiv el y 	in	the 	sponsor ship 	
leagues	tab les 	(Mar k eting 	Mag azine , 	No v ember 	2012).	
Advertising and Marketing Services (‘AMS’)
T he 	AMS	 division	inc ludes 	the 	V CCP 	Group	and	T eamspirit. 	
It	 possesses	specialist	skills	in	ad v er tising 	and	mar k eting 	
ser vices , 	direct 	mar k eting , 	digital	comm unica tion, 	searc h 	
rela tions , 	point 	of 	sale , 	sales	promotion,	da ta 	consultanc y 	
and	tec hnical 	design, 	m ultimedia 	content,	y outh 	mar k eting 	
and	e xperiential, 	mar k eting 	consulting , 	retail	and 	shopper 	
mar k eting 	and 	specialist	media 	planning	and	b uying . 	It	also	
specialises 	 in	the	nic he 	mar k et 	of 	financial	ser vices .
Public Relations
T he 	Good 	R ela tions 	 Group	 is 	 a	full y 	integra ted	 brand 	
comm unica tions 	and	CSR	 consultanc y 	 ser vicing 	 more 	
than	 400 	 c lients 	 in	 the	 UK	and	inter na tionall y . 	Companies 	
inc lude:	 Cor pora te 	Citiz enship ,	a	 best-in-c lass	global 	CSR	
consultanc y , 	inEvidence ,	 a	mar k et-leading	 and 	 global 	
b usiness-to-b usiness	 customer	ad v ocac y 	 agenc y , 	Good	
R ela tions 	 Brand 	 Comm unica tions , 	 one 	 of 	the	 UK’ s 	leading	
consumer	 brand 	 and 	 B2B	 pub lic 	 rela tions 	 agencies , 	
Har v ard, 	 a	renowned	 tec hnology	 pub lic 	 rela tions	 b usiness	
and 	 TT A 	 Proper ty , 	an	 a ward-winning 	proper ty	 pub lic	
rela tions	b usiness .
Healthcare
Open 	Health,	 a	healthcare	comm unica tions 	 and 	 mar k et 	
access	group	was 	f or med 	 in	 2011,	and	comprises	
org anicall y 	 de v eloped 	 and 	 acquired	b usinesses . 	T he 	 group	
brands	are	 Open	LEC ,	Open	 Plan, 	 R e ynolds-MacK enzie ,	
Succinct,	T he 	 Ear th 	W or ks , 	 Har v e y 	W alsh 	and	pH	
Associa tes . 	
Insight & Engagement
T he	Insight 	&	Eng agement 	division 	brings	 together	some	
of 	the	 countr y’ s 	leading 	insight	 specialists	with	 the	 most	
e xtensiv e 	and	inno v a tiv e 	researc h 	solutions 	to	 help	their	
c lients	 to	 reac h 	faster 	conc lusions , 	mak e 	better	 decisions	
and 	 de v elop 	more 	inf or med 	solutions . 	T he 	 Insight	and	
Eng agement 	division	 is 	 made	up	of 	 Opinion	Leader	
R esearc h, 	 F acts 	Inter na tional 	 and 	 W a ter melon 	 R esearc h.
 
94			 Chime	Communications	 plc Segment 	 inf or ma tion 	about	these	b usinesses 	is	presented	 below:	
Sport &
Enter-
tainment 
Advertising 
and 
Marketing 
Services
Public 
Relations Healthcare
Insight & 
Engagement Elimination Consolidated
2013 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue
External sales 109,028 122,037 35,390 21,661 11,070 – 299,186
Inter-segment sales 7,901 15,280 1,897 534 7,429 (33,041) –
Total revenue 116,929 137,317 37,287 22,195 18,499 (33,041) 299,186
Segment result
Operating income 55,576 65,807 21,228 18,451 9,067 – 170,129
Operating profit/(loss) by segment (9,502) 4,237 1,359 2,599 2,667 – 1,360
Central administration costs (1,341)
Operating profit 19 
Other gains and losses (3,225)
Share of results of associates 692 
Investment income 66 
Finance costs (1,637)
Finance cost of deferred consideration (309)
Finance cost of deemed remuneration (345
Loss before tax (4,739) 
Tax (4,429)
Loss for the year (9,168)
Profit for the year from discontinued 
operations – 
Loss after tax and discontinued operations (9,168) 
Other segment information
Capital additions 2,480 2,493 575 440 136 – 6,124
Depreciation and amortisation 3,583 1,708 405 1,125 67 – 6,888
Goodwill 130,277 50,827 14,681 24,360 7,665 – 227,810
Balance sheet
Segment assets  
(including goodwill) 181,713 87,187 25,538 35,652 11,933 342,023
Investments in associates and other 
investments 6,603
Deferred consideration receivable 282 
Unallocated corporate assets 12,994 
Consolidated total assets 361,902 
Liabilities 
Segment liabilities 44,888 31,014 8,976 18,247 3,623 106,748
Unallocated corporate liabilities 13,370
Draw-down under Group facility 57,737 
Consolidated total liabilities      177,855 
 
Annual 	Report	and	Accounts	2013			95
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
 
3. Business and geographical segments (continued)
 2012
Sport &
Enter-
tainment
£’000
Advertising 
and 
Marketing 
Services
£’000
Public 
Relations
£’000
Healthcare
£’000
Insight & 
Engagement
£’000
Elimination
£’000
Consolidated
£’000
Revenue
External sales 171,380 104,995 40,931 13,315 13,613 – 344,234 
Inter-segment sales 4,000 9,887 2,092 473 4,133 (20,585) – 
Total revenue 175,380 114,882 43,023 13,788 17,746 (20,585) 344,234 
Segment result
Operating income 65,942 54,313 21,075 10,852 7,608 – 159,790 
Operating profit by segment 439 3,970 802 1,433 2,125 – 8,769 
Central administration costs (3,876)
Operating profit 4,893 
Other gains and losses (1,677) 
Share of results of associates 560
Investment income 27 
Finance costs (664)
Finance cost of deferred consideration (325)
Finance cost of deemed remuneration (270)
Profit before tax 2,544 
Tax (5,200)
Loss for the year (2,656) 
Profit for the year from discontinued 
operations 2,790
Profit after tax and discontinued operations 134
Other segment information
Capital additions 1,646 776 465 147 71 – 3,105 
Depreciation and amortisation 3,798 1,031 712 563 49 – 6,153 
Goodwill 77,971 49,895 18,218 24,360 7,665 – 178,109 
 
Balance sheet
Segment assets  
(including goodwill) 121,335 67,032 46,088 27,211 7,561 269,227 
Investments in associates and 
other investments 6,073
Deferred consideration receivable 1,307
Unallocated corporate assets 1,508
Consolidated total assets 278,115 
Liabilities
Segment liabilities 49,081 25,844 9,880 17,972 3,730 106,507 
Unallocated corporate liabilities 13,281 
Draw-down under Group facility 1,731 
Consolidated total liabilities 121,519 
96			 Chime	Communications	 plc Geographical segments:
T he	Group’ s 	 opera tions	are 	loca ted 	in	the 	United	Kingdom,	
Europe , 	the	Middle	East,	the	F ar 	East,	the	USA,	South	
America, 	 Africa	and	A ustralasia. 	 T he 	Spor t 	&	Enter tainment 	
division	is	loca ted 	in	 the	United	Kingdom,	the	Middle	East,	
T he	F ar	East,	South	America,	Europe ,	Africa 	and	A ustralasia.	
T he	Group’ s 	 Ad v er tising 	and	Mar k eting	Ser vices	division	
is 	loca ted 	 in	the	United	Kingdom,	Continental 	Europe	and	
A ustralasia.	Pub lic 	rela tions	is	car ried 	out	in 	the	United	
Kingdom,	Europe , 	Africa, 	the	Middle 	East, 	 the	F ar 	 East	
and 	the	USA.	 T he	Insight	&	Eng agement	and	Healthcare	
divisions	are	 loca ted 	solel y 	in	the 	United 	Kingdom.
During	 the	y ear	our	 largest	customer	 represented	10.45%	
of 	re v en ue .	 Management	 belie v e	 tha t	 opera ting	income	is	
a	 more	meaningful 	measure . 	 Our	largest	c lient 	 represented	
12%	 of 	 total	 opera ting 	 income 	 (2012: 	 12%).
T his 	was 	a	 c lient	 of 	 the	 Ad v er tising	and	 Mar k eting 
Ser vice	 division.
T he	 f ollowing 	 tab le	 pro vides	an	anal ysis 	 of 	 the	 Group’ s 	
re v en ue	 b y 	geographical	 mar k et, 	based	 on	the 	billing	
loca tion	 of 	the	 c lient:
Revenue from continuing operations by geographical segment
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
United Kingdom 189,482 250,071 
Europe and Africa 68,877 58,663 
Middle East 4,796 7,395 
USA 13,245 10,734 
South America 8,544 8,479
Rest of the World 14,242 8,892
299,186 344,234 
T he 	f ollowing	is	an	anal ysis 	of 	the 	car r ying 	amount 	of 	segment 	assets ,	 and 	 additions	to 	tangib le	assets 	and	intangib le	
assets , 	anal ysed 	 b y	the 	geographical	area	in	w hic h	 the	assets 	are	 loca ted:
Carrying amount of non-current assets
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
United Kingdom 199,215 181,824 
Europe, Middle East and Africa 5,069 7,951 
USA, South America and Rest of the World 50,896 7,197 
255,180 196,972 
Capital additions
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
United Kingdom 4,816 2,427 
Europe, Middle East and Africa 469 448 
USA, South America and Rest of the World 460 203 
5,745 3,078 
 
Annual 	Report	and	Accounts	2013			97
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
 
4. Discontinued operations
On	18	J une	2012,	the	Group	entered	into 	a	sale	agreement 	
to	dispose	of 	the	Bell	P ottinger 	b usinesses 	to	BPP 	
Comm unica tions 	Limited,	(‘BPP	Comm unica tions’). 	T he 	
b usinesses 	sold 	to	BPP	Comm unica tions	inc luded 	the 	
entities 	Bell	P ottinger	Pub lic	R ela tions	Limited,	P elham 	Bell	
P ottinger 	Limited 	(60%), 	Bell 	P ottinger 	Pub lic 	Af fair s 	Limited, 	
P elham 	Bell	 P ottinger 	Asia	Pte	Limited,	Bell	P ottinger 	Middle 	
East 	 FZ-LL C 	and 	Bell	P ottinger	Bahrain	S .P .C 	and	the 	trade	
and	assets	of 	Bell	P ottinger	Sans	F rontières , 	Bell 	P ottinger	
USA	Inc	and	Bell 	P ottinger	Central.	T hese 	companies 	
car ried	out	par t 	of 	the	Group’ s 	pub lic 	rela tions 	opera tions . 	
Lord	 Bell 	 and 	Pier s	P ottinger	were 	Chair man 	 and 
Deputy-c hair man 	of 	Chime 	Comm unica tions 	plc , 	and 
are 	 shareholder s	of 	BPP	Comm unica tions ,	 and 	as 	suc h 
the 	disposal 	is	noted	as	a	rela ted 	par ty	transaction.
T he 	disposal	was 	completed 	on	30	 J une 	2012,	 on	w hic h	
da te	the 	control	 of 	 the	Bell	 P ottinger 	 Businesses	passed	to	
the	acquirer . 	
T he	total 	considera tion	 was	 £19.6m,	settled	 in	£13.9m	cash,	
shares	representing	a	 25%	holding 	in 	BPP	 Comm unica tions 	
Limited	 v alued 	a t 	£4.1m,	 an	amount 	of 	£1.0m	w hic h 	was	
def er red	 f or 	a	period 	up	to 	30	J une 	2013 	 and	 £0.6m	of 	
def er red	 considera tion 	liability	 transf er red. 	 T he	£1.0m 
was 	 receiv ed 	during	 J une 	2013. 	BPP	 Comm unica tions 	
Limited	 has 	 been 	 recognised	as	 an	associa te 	a t 	the 	balance	
sheet	da te . 	
T he	results	 of 	the	 discontin ued 	opera tions 	w hic h 	ha v e 
been 	 inc luded 	 in	 the	consolida ted 	 income 	 sta tement 	 were 
as 	f ollows:
12 months to 
31 December
2012
£’000
Revenue 29,319
Operating income 14,763
Operating (loss)/profit (54)
(Loss)/profit before tax (54)
Profit on disposal of discontinued operations 2,967
Attributable tax expense (123)
Net profit attributable to discontinued operations 2,790
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 2,306
Non-controlling interests 484
In 	the	 period	to 	30	J une	2012 	the 	Bell 	P ottinger	b usinesses	contrib uted	£0.5m	to	 the	 Group’ s	net 	opera ting	cash	 flows , 	paid 	
£0.1m 	 in	respect 	of 	in v esting 	activities 	and	paid	£0.9m	 in	respect 	of 	financing	 activities .
A 	profit 	 of 	£3.0m	arose	on 	the	disposal	of 	the	Bell	P ottinger 	 Business , 	being	the 	proceeds 	of 	disposal	less 	the	 car r ying 	
amount	of 	the	subsidiaries 	net	assets 	and 	a ttrib utab le 	goodwill.
98			 Chime	Communications	 plc 5. Operating profit
Profit	has 	been	ar riv ed 	a t	after 	 c harging:
2013
Continuing
operations
£’000
Discontinued
operations
£’000
Total
£’000
Depreciation of owned property, plant and equipment 3,214 – 3,214
Depreciation of assets held under finance leases 66 – 66
Amortisation of other intangible assets – computer software 106 – 106
Amortisation of other intangible assets – customer relationships 3,568 – 3,568
Impairment of goodwill 1,712 – 1,712
Rentals under operating leases – property 4,458 – 4,458
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 123 – 123
Staff costs (see note 6) 121,699 – 121,699
– Deemed Remuneration (see note 6) 7,800 – 7,800
Net foreign exchange losses 445 – 445
2012
Continuing
operations
£’000
Discontinued
operations
£’000
Total
£’000
Depreciation of owned property, plant and equipment 2,961 79 3,040
Depreciation of assets held under finance leases 88 – 88 
Amortisation of other intangible assets – computer software 81 – 81 
Amortisation of other intangible assets – customer relationships 2,944 – 2,944 
Rentals under operating leases – property 5,174 38 5,212
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 434 – 434 
Staff costs (see note 6) 119,538 9,499 129,037
Net foreign exchange losses 262 42 304
An 	anal ysis	 of 	auditor s’	 rem unera tion	is	pro vided	below:
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s 
annual accounts 101 101 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and their associates for other services 
– Audit related assurance services 30 30 
– the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 332 290 
Total audit fees 463 421 
Taxation compliance services 70 78 
Other taxation advisory services 105 108
Corporate finance services – 38 
Other services 49 39 
Fees in relation to prospectus 750 –
Total non-audit fees 974 263
Total fees paid to Company’s auditors 1,437 684
F ees 	in	rela tion 	to	prospectus	of 	£750,000	 inc luded	ser vices	f or	 due 	 diligence	wor king 	capital	 repor ting , 	accountants	
repor t	on	historical	financial 	inf or ma tion, 	repor t	on	 taxa tion	and	pro	 f or ma 	 combined	financial	inf or ma tion	 in	 rela tion	to	the	
acquisition	of 	J ust	Mar k eting 	Inc .
  
 
Annual 	Report	and	Accounts	2013			99
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
 
6. Staff costs
Average number of staff:
2013
Number
2012
Number
Sport and Entertainment 647 700 
Advertising and Marketing Services 662 527 
Public Relations 285 322 
Healthcare 176 113 
Insight and Engagement 78 70 
1,848 1,732 
Staff costs:
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Wages and Salaries 101,407 101,255 
Social Security costs 10,229 11,809 
Pension costs 2,391 2,679 
Share-based payment awards granted to Directors and employees (128) 2,020 
Deemed Remuneration 7,800 11,274 
121,699 129,037 
T he 	Group	opera tes 	a	defined 	contrib ution 	pension	sc heme 	f or	the 	benefit	 of 	 the	 majority	of 	emplo y ees . 	 T his 	is	an	
independentl y	administered 	fund,	the	assets 	of 	w hic h 	are	held	 separa tel y	from	 those	 of 	 the	Compan y . 	As	a t 	December	2013, 
contrib utions 	 of 	 £260,000 	 (2012: 	 £233,000) 	 due 	 in 	 respect 	 of 	 the 	 cur rent 	 repor ting 	 period 	 had 	 not 	 been 	 paid 	 o v er 	 to 	 the 	 sc hemes .	
7. Other losses
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Loss on disposal of trade – (895)
Impairment in carrying value of other investments – (668) 
Loss on disposal of subsidiary (3,225) (114)
(3,225) (1,677)
T he 	Group	disposed	 of 	a	b usiness	in	the	Pub lic 	R ela tions	 division	during 	2013	resulting 	in 	a	loss 	of 	£3,224,578.
100			Chime 	 Communications	plc 8. Investment income from continuing operations
2013
£‘000
2012
£’000
Dividend received 10 –
Interest on bank deposits 52 15 
Other interest receivable 4 12 
66 27
9. Finance costs from continuing operations
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans (1,510) (577)
Interest on unsecured loan notes (16) –
Interest on obligations under finance leases (11) (21)
Other interest payable (100) (66)
(1,637) (664)
Finance cost of deferred consideration (309) (325)
Finance cost of deemed remuneration (345) (270)
(2,291) (1,259)
10. Tax
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Current tax
UK corporation tax at 23.25% (2012: 24.5%) 4,253 5,148
Adjustment in respect of prior years (675) (436)
3,578 4,712
Foreign tax 1,337 1,610
Adjustment in respect of prior years (14) 157
4,901 6,479
Deferred tax
Current year originating temporary differences (911) (1,223)
Adjustment in respect of prior years 439 (56)
(472) (1,279)
Tax charge for the year 4,429 5,200
UK 	Cor pora tion 	tax	is	calcula ted 	a t 	23.25%	(2012:	24.5%)	 of 	 the	 estima ted 	assessab le 	profit 	 f or 	the 	y ear .
T axa tion 	f or 	other	jurisdictions	is	calcula ted 	a t 	the 	ra tes 	pre v ailing 	 in	the 	respectiv e 	jurisdictions .
 
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			101
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
10. Tax (continued)
T he 	c harge 	f or	the	y ear 	can	be	reconciled	to 	the	profit	per	the 	income	sta tement 	as	f ollows:
2013 2012
£’000 % £’000 %
(Loss)/profit before tax (4,749) 2,544
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 23.25% (2012: 24.5%) (1,104) 23.3% 623 24.5%
Expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profits 2,609 -54.9% 1,118 7.9%
Remuneration expense on business combinations 1,896 -39.9% 2,899 114.0%
Loss/(profit) on disposal/write-off of investments 1,104 -23.3% 243 1.7%
Unrecognised tax losses carried forward/(utilised) 258 -5.4% 127 0.9%
Prior year corporation tax adjustment (689) 14.5% (279) (2.0%)
Prior year deferred tax adjustment 439 -9.3% (56) (0.4%)
Unrelieved overseas withholding tax 5 -0.1% 289 2.0%
Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets (305) 6.4% – –
Effect of reduction of tax rate on deferred tax 229 -4.8% 124 0.9%
Effect of differences in tax rates of subsidiaries operating in 
other jurisdictions (13) -0.3% 112 0.8%
Tax expense and effective tax rate for the year 4,429 -93.2% 5,200 204.5%
Tax on discontinued operations – – 94 3.7%
4,429 -93.2% 5,294 208.2%
11. Deferred tax
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Deferred tax asset movement
At 1 January 2,084 1,032
Disposals – (3)
Acquisition of subsidiaries 109 (322)
Credit/(charge) to equity 242 98
Credit/(charge) to the profit and loss account 472 1,279
Exchange adjustments (54) –
At 31 December 2,853 2,084
 
Analysis of deferred tax asset
Depreciation in excess of capital allowances 740 816
Short term temporary differences 316 787
Share based payments 1,069 999
Losses 721 233
Intangibles 7 (751)
2,853 2,084
102			Chime 	 Communications	plc Def er red 	tax 	assets	of 	£0.5 	million	in	the 	UK	(2012:	£0.5 	million)	and	$14.3	 million	 in	 the	US 	(2012:	$3.6	 million) 	 ha v e	 not	
been	recognised	in	def er red 	taxa tion	due 	to 	insuf ficient 	cer tainty	 tha t	 there	will	 be 	 appropria te	 profits 	 a v ailab le 	in 	the	 future 
to 	utilise 	them.
In	the	UK,	 the 	Finance 	Act 	2012 	inc luded	legisla tion	 to	 reduce 	 the	 main 	 ra te 	of 	cor pora tion	 tax	 from	24%	 to	23% 	from 
1 	A pril	 2013.	T his	giv es	an	ef f ectiv e 	tax 	ra te 	of 	23.25%	f or	 cur rent	tax	 f or	the 	y ear	ended	 31 	 December	2013.	 T he 	Finance	Act	
2013	inc luded 	 legisla tion 	to	fur ther 	reduce	the	 main	ra te 	 of 	 UK	cor pora tion 	tax	 to	 21%	with 	ef f ect 	 from	1	 A pril 	2014	and	 to 	
20% 	 with	ef f ect 	from 	 1	A pril	2015. 	Def er red 	tax 	has 	been	pro vided	a t	 the	 ra te 	 pre v ailing 	w hen	the 	temporar y 	dif f erences 	are	
e xpected	to 	re v er se .	
Accelerated 
tax
depreciation
£’000
Share
based
payment
£’000
Losses
£’000
Short term
timing
differences
£’000
Intangibles
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2012 685 763 254 196 (866) 1,032
Acquisitions 1 – 389 – (712) (322)
Disposals (63) (28) – – 88 (3)
Charge/(credit) to profit and loss account 193 166 (410) 591 739 1,279
Credit to equity 98 – 98
Balance at 1 January 2013 816 999 233 787 (751) 2,084
Acquisitions (23) – – 351 (219) 109
Disposals – – – – – –
Charge/(credit)to profit and loss account (53) (172) 527 (819) 1,011 494
Charge to equity – 242 – – – 242
Other (12) – – (12)
Exchange adjustments – – (27) (3) (34) (64)
740 1,069 721 316 7 2,853
No 	def er red 	 tax	liability	is	recognised	on	temporar y	dif f erences	 of 	 £1,060,000 	 (2012:	 £399,000)	rela ting	to 	the	 unremitted	
ear nings 	of 	o v er seas 	subsidiaries	as	the	group	is	ab le 	 to	 control	the	 timing 	 of 	 the	 re v er sal 	of 	these 	temporar y 	dif f erences 	
and	it	is	probab le	tha t 	the y	 will 	not 	re v er se 	in 	the	f oreseeab le 	 future .	T he	temporar y 	dif f erences 	a t	 31	December	2013	
represent	onl y 	the 	unremitted	ear nings 	of 	those	 o v er seas 	subsidiaries 	w here 	 remittance 	 to	 the 	 UK 	 of 	those	 ear nings 	ma y 	
result	in	a	 tax	liability , 	 principall y	as	a	result 	of 	dividend	 withholding	tax es	le vied	 b y	the	 o v er seas 	jurisdictions 	 in	 w hic h 	these	
subsidiaries 	 opera te .
 12. Dividends
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 5.14p per share (2011: 4.50p) 4,402 3,645
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 2.20p per share (2012: 2.10p per share) 1,887 1,704
6,289 5,349
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 5.14p per share (2012: 5.14p per share) 5,043 4,381
T he	proposed	final	dividend 	is	subject	to	appro v al 	b y 	 shareholder s 	a t 	the	 Ann ual 	General	 Meeting	and	has	 not	been 	inc luded 	
as	a 	liability 	in 	these 	financial 	sta tements . 	T he 	 dividend	will 	be	paid	 on	13	J une 	 2014	to	 those	 shareholder s 	 on	the	register	a t 	
23	 Ma y 	2014. 	T he 	e x-dividend 	da te 	is	21	Ma y 	2014.
Under	an 	ar rangement 	da ted 	3	A pril 	1996,	T he 	Chime	 Comm unica tions 	Emplo y ee 	 T r ust 	w hic h 	holds	 910,704	ordinar y 	 shares 	
representing	0.9%	of 	the	Compan y’ s 	called-up	share 	 capital, 	 has	agreed	to 	waiv e 	dividends 	o v er 	 427,124	shares 	(0.4% 	 of 	
the	compan y’ s 	called	up	share	capital),	the 	dif f erence 	 being	those	 shares	held 	under	the 	def er red 	share	 sc heme . 	
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			103
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
13. Earnings per share
2013
pence
2012
pence
Earnings from continuing and discontinued operations
Basic (12.63p) (1.59p)
Diluted (12.63p) (1.59p)
T he 	calcula tion 	of 	the	basic	and	diluted	ear nings 	per	share	is	based	 on	the 	f ollowing 	da ta:
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share being net  
(loss)/profit attributable to equity holders of the parent (10,831) (1,276)
Number Number
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 85,742,203 80,203,311
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
Deferred shares 295,494 840,598
Share options 522,342 603,570
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 86,560,039 81,647,479
Diluted 	ear nings	per	share	is	calcula ted 	on 	the	profit	f or	the 	y ear	a ttrib utab le	 to	 parent	 compan y 	shareholder s 	divided 	b y	
the 	weighted	a v erage 	n umber 	of 	ordinar y 	shares	outstanding	 during	the 	y ear 	adjusted	 f or 	the 	potentiall y 	 dilutiv e 	 impact	of 	
emplo y ee 	share	incentiv e 	sc hemes 	and	shares	to	be	issued	 as	par t 	 of 	 def er red 	 or	contingent	 considera tion 	on	 acquisitions	
of 	subsidiaries .
Some 	 share	options	tha t 	had	a	higher 	purc hase 	price	than	the	 a v erage 	mar k et 	price 	of 	the 	shares	 f or 	the	 y ear 	 ended 
31 	December	2013	were	outstanding . 	T hese 	options	ha v e 	been	e x c luded 	from	the 	calcula tion 	of 	diluted	 ear nings 	 per	share	
as	 the y 	would	ha v e 	been	antidilutiv e .
2013
pence
2012
pence
Earnings from continuing operations
Earnings per share
Basic (12.63p) (4.47p)
Diluted (12.63p) (4.47p)
£’000 £’000
Earnings
Net loss attributable to equity holder of the parent (10,831) (1,276)
Adjustment to exclude (profit) from discontinued operations – (2,790)
Adjustment to exclude non-controlling interest of discontinued operations – 484
Earnings from continuing operations for the purpose of basic earnings per share being  
net profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent (10,831) (3,582)
104			Chime 	 Communications	plc T he	denomina tor s 	used	are 	 the	same	as	those 	 detailed 	abo v e 	 f or 	 both	basic 	and	diluted	ear nings 	per	 share	from	contin uing 	
and 	discontin ued	opera tions .
2013
pence
2012
pence
Earnings from discontinued operations
Basic – 2.88p
Diluted – 2.83p
14. Goodwill
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Carrying amount at 1 January 178,109 168,220 
Impairment of goodwill (1,712) –
Exchange differences (483) (738)
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries 54,881 26,170
Other changes in respect of prior year acquisitions 58 (3,024)
Disposal of subsidiaries (3,043) (12,519)
At 31 December 227,810 178,109
T he 	Group 	tests	goodwill	ann uall y	f or	impair ment 	 or	more	frequentl y 	if 	 there 	 are	indica tions	tha t	 goodwill	 might	be	impaired.
T he	impair ment	of 	goodwill	of 	£1,712,000 	rela tes 	to 	goodwill 	on	pre vious 	acquisitions 	tha t	 are	undergoing	 stra tegic 	
restr ucturing 	f ollowing	the 	deteriora tion	 in	the	results	 of 	 the	b usiness . 	T he	 impair ments 	arose	 in	 Spor t 	and	Enter tainment,	
Ad v er tising	and 	Mar k eting 	Ser vices	and	Pub lic	R ela tions	 divisions .
T he 	car r ying 	v alue	of 	goodwill	and	other	intangib le	assets	 a t	 the	 repor ting 	da te	f or 	 the	significant	 CGUs 	 is 	 as	f ollows:
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Sport & Entertainment
Essentially – Goodwill 29,065 29,065
Essentially – Intangibles 486 486
29,551 29,551
Fast Track 25,679 25,985
Just Marketing Inc. 44,002 –
Advertising and Marketing Services
VCCP 34,917 33,176
  
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			105
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
14. Goodwill (continued)
Significant	CGUs	are	those 	w hose 	car r ying 	v alue 	of 	goodwill	e x ceeds 	 10%	of 	the 	total 	goodwill 	balance .
T he 	reco v erab le 	amounts	of 	the	CGUs	are	deter mined 	from	 v alue 	 in	 use	calcula tions . 		T he 	 k e y 	 assumptions 	 f or 	the 	v alue 	 in	
use	calcula tions 	 are	those	reg arding	discount 	ra tes	and	growth	 ra tes	during	 the	 period. 		Management	estima tes 	discount	
ra tes	using	pre-tax	 ra tes	tha t	reflect 	 cur rent 	mar k et 	assessments	of 	the 	time	 v alue 	 of 	mone y 	 and 	 has	tak en	into	 considera tion	
the	 risks	specific	to	eac h 	CGU .
T he 	Group	prepared	cashflow	f orecasts	based	on	the 	2014	 b udgets 	and	the	 fiv e 	y ear 	plan	 appro v ed 	 b y 	the 	Director s . 	T he	
b udgets 	and	the	fiv e	 y ear 	plan	were	prepared 	 b y 	local 	management	taking	 into 	 account	re v en ues 	 from	e xisting 	c lients 	and	
the	 resources 	required 	to	ser vice 	the 	c lients . 	T he y 	also	used	their 	industr y 	knowledge 	with 	reg ards 	 to	the 	mar k etplace 	and	
pricing	w hen 	f or m ula ting 	 the	b udget. 	
After	the	initial	fiv e	y ear 	 f orecast	period,	a	long	ter m 	growth	 ra te 	 of 	 2%	 (2012: 	 2%)	has	 been 	 applied	to 	the 	cash	flow 	
f orecasts	 into 	per petuity . 	T his 	ra te 	does 	 not	e x ceed 	the 	long-ter m 	growth	 ra te 	 f or 	the 	rele v ant 	mar k ets , 	 and	is	applicab le 	 to 	 all	
of 	 the 	CGUs .
T he 	pre-tax	 ra te 	used 	to	discount	the	 f orecast 	cashflows	 from	all	 CGUs 	 in	 the	Ad v er tising 	and	Mar k eting , 	 Pub lic 	 R ela tions , 	
Healthcare	and 	 Insight 	and 	 Eng agement 	sector s 	is	10.6% 	 (2012:	 11%).		A 	 pre-tax 	 ra te 	of 	10.6% 	(2012:	11%)	 has	been	used	
f or 	the	 Spor t 	and 	Enter tainment 	CGUs , 	other	than 	one 	CGU 	loca ted 	in 	Brazil,	 w here 	a	 ra te 	of 	13.1% 	(2012:	13%)	 has	been	
assumed	in	order 	to	tak e	account	 of 	the 	risk	profile .
T he 	Group	has	conducted	a	sensitivity 	anal ysis 	on	the 	impair ment 	 test	of 	eac h 	 CGU’ s 	car r ying 	v alue . 		If 	 discount 	ra tes 	were	
increased	 b y 	1% 	and 	 opera ting 	income	reduced	b y 	10% 	 in	 eac h 	period,	goodwill 	alloca ted 	 to	 one 	 CGU 	 would	be	impaired	
b y	£632,000. 	T he 	CGU	opera tes 	within	the 	Pub lic 	R ela tion 	 segments . 	 F or 	the	 same	 CGU , 	if 	 the	 sensitivities 	 were	tak en 	in	
isola tion	onl y 	the	increase	in	the	discount	ra te 	has	an 	impact. 	T he 	 discount	 ra te 	 would 	 need	to	 increase 	 b y 	0.9%	bef ore 	an y 	
impair ment	would	be 	recorded.
T he 	cum ula tiv e 	goodwill	impair ment 	as	a t 	the	brought	f orward 	balance	 sheet	 da te 	was 	£39,311,000.
In 	2013	other	c hanges 	in	respect	of 	prior	y ear 	acquisitions 	 predominantl y 	 inc lude:
•	 R e visions 	 to	the	estima te 	of 	def er red 	considera tion 	pa y ab le 	 rela ting 	 to	 acquisitions 	 completed 	prior	 to 	the 	 implementa tion 	
of 	IFRS	3	(re vised 	 2008).
106			Chime 	 Communications	plc 15. Acquisition of subsidiaries
In	2013, 	the	Group	made	a	n umber 	 of 	acquisitions	 in	 order	to 	grow 	the 	b usiness .
T he 	Spor t 	 and	Enter tainment 	 division	made	3	 main	acquisitions	as	 f ollows: 	
•	 Complete 	Leisure	Group	w hic h	owns	the 	rights	 to	 all	Lord	Coe’ s	income	streams	 o v er	the 	ne xt	fifteen	y ear s .	 Primaril y ,	
these	income	streams	constitute	commissions , 	ro y alties 	 and 	 consulting	income . 	Lord	Coe 	is	one	 of 	 the	most	 high 	 profile	
figures	in	 wor ld 	spor t 	and 	 the	proposed	acquisition 	 of 	CL G 	will	 assist	CSM	Spor t 	&	 Enter tainment 	 (‘CSM’)	in 	its	 ambition 	 to	
become	one	of 	the	top	three	spor ts 	and	enter tainment 	 b usinesses 	in 	the	 wor ld;	 and
•	 P eople	Mar k eting	is	a	spor ts	mar k eting 	 and 	comm unica tions 	agenc y	based 	in	 Shanghai.	 It	will	 significantl y	 enhance	the 	
geographical	spread	of 	CSM’ s	activities 	and	pro vide 	access	to 	the	 Chinese	and	South	 East	Asia 	mar k ets .
•	 J ust	Mar k eting 	Inc .	(‘JMI’)	a	global	mar k eting	fir m 	f ocused 	on	 motor spor ts ,	opera ting	primaril y	in 	F or m ula 	 1,	NASCAR	(the 	
Na tional	Associa tion	f or 	Stoc k	Car	A uto	Racing) 	 and	IndyCar . 	 JMI	has	of fices 	in	 Indianapolis ,	 London	 and 	 Hong 	 K ong .	T he	
acquisition	will	help	CSM’ s 	fulfil	its	aspira tion	of 	 becoming	a	leading 	spor ts	 mar k eter . 	In 	par ticular	 it	pro vides:
•	 a 	leading 	position	in	 motor spor ts , 	a	spor t 	in	w hic h 	it	cur rentl y 	has	 limited	presence;	
•	 giv es 	a 	f oothold 	into	the 	United 	Sta tes , 	one 	of 	 the	 wor ld’ s 	 largest	spor ts 	 mar k eting 	 mar k ets; 	
•	 reduces 	 CSM’ s 	 re v en ue 	 v ola tility 	 through 	 JMI’ s 	 m ulti-y ear 	 contracts , 	 longstanding 	 rela tionships 	 and 	 strong 	 re v en ue 	 visibility .
T he 	V CCP 	 P ar tner ship 	made	 1	main 	acquisition	 as 	f ollows:
•	 W ARL 	Group	Limited	w hic h 	brings	specialist	retail	and	shopper	skills	to 	the 	V CCP 	 P ar tner ship . 	
Complete Leisure Group
On 	30 	J an uar y 	2013 	the	group	e x ercised 	its	option 	 to	 acquire	 Lord 	 Coe’ s 	 93%	interest	in 	T he 	 Complete	 Leisure 	 Group	
Limited	(‘CL G’), 	a	compan y 	incor pora ted 	in	the	United	Kingdom,	 f or 	initial	considera tion 	of 	£1,965,000	 in	 cash.	 T his 	was 	in	
addition	 to	the	pa yment 	in	No v ember 	2012	of 	 £300,000	f or 	 acquiring 	 the	 option 	 bringing 	 total	considera tion 	to	 £2,265,000. 
A 	fur ther	6%	was	acquired	from	minority	shareholder s 	 f or	£110,000	 bringing 	 the	 total	share	 acquired	to 	99%.	
Additional 	 amounts	are	pa y ab le 	to	Lord	Coe 	contingent	on	 the	 results	of 	the 	b usiness ,	 capped	a t 	the 	maxim um	 of 	
£10,200,000 	(undiscounted).	As	a t 	31	 December 	2013,	£1,795,855 	(discounted	f or 	 finance 	 costs) 	 has	been	pro vided 	f or 	as	
deemed	rem unera tion. 	T he 	deemed 	rem unera tion	is	e xpected	 to	 be 	 paid	in 	2015	and	2017. 	T he 	 total	maxim um	considera tion	
and	deemed 	rem unera tion 	pa y ab le 	f or 	CL G 	is	£12,600,000.
CL G 	was	 acquired	b y 	Chime’ s 	Spor t 	and	 Enter tainment 	 division.
T he 	fair	v alue 	 of 	the	net 	assets	acquired	is	detailed	 below .
 
 
Provisional
book value
£’000
Fair value 
adjustments
£’000
Provisional 
fair values
£’000
Intangible fixed assets – 1,895 1,895
Other investments 79 (79) – 
Debtors and other current assets 103 – 103 
Cash at bank 636 – 636 
Creditors (228) (394) (622)
Net assets 590 1,422 2,012
Goodwill 391 
Minority Interest (138)
Fair value of consideration 2,265
Cash consideration 2,265
Cash acquired (636)
Cash outflow arising on acquisition 1,629
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			107
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
15. Acquisition of subsidiaries (continued)
T he 	adjustment 	to	in v estments 	is	to 	de-recognise 	in v estments 	in	 non-core	 b usinesses . 	T he	 adjustment	 to	intangib le 	fix ed 	
assets	is 	to	recognise	£1,895,558 	of 	intangib les 	rela ting 	 to	 customer 	 contracts	and	rela tionships . 	 T he 	adjustments 	to 	
creditor s 	rela tes 	to 	the 	 recognition	of 	def er red 	tax	on 	intangib le 	 fix ed 	assets .
Costs 	 amounting 	 to	£87,954	ha v e	been	e xpensed 	during	 the	y ear	and	are 	inc luded 	in 	opera ting	e xpenses .
Goodwill 	represents 	the	rights	held	b y 	CL G 	to	Lord 	Coe’ s 	 income 	 streams	f or 	 the	 ne xt 	 15 	 y ear s . 	Lord	 Coe	 is 	 one 	 of 	the	 most	
high	 profile 	 figures	in	wor ld	spor t 	 and 	the 	proposed	acquisition	 of 	CL G	will	 assist	CSM	Spor t 	 & 	 Enter tainment	 in	 its	 ambition 	
to	become 	one	of 	the	top	three	spor ts	and	enter tainment 	b usinesses 	 in	 the	wor ld	 CL G	 contrib uted	re v en ue 	 of 	£1,490,949	
and	an	opera ting 	loss	 of 	£1,667,222 	(after	a	deemed	rem unera tion 	 c harge 	 of 	£1,795,855	 million) 	 to	 the	 results	of 	the 	Group	
since 	acquisition.	If 	 the 	acquisition	had	been	completed	a t 	the 	beginning	 of 	 the	 y ear , 	 the	 Group	re v en ue 	 f or 	the 	period	 would	
also 	 ha v e	been	£1,490,949 	and	group 	opera ting	profit	would	ha v e 	 been 	 £1,667,222.
WARL Group
On 	 15	Ma y	2013	the	group	acquired	100%	of 	T he	W ARL	Group 	Limited 	(‘W ARL ’),	 a	compan y 	 incor pora ted 	in 	the 	United	
Kingdom, 	f or 	initial 	considera tion 	of 	£5,046,000 	of 	w hic h 	 £1,331,000 	was 	paid	 in	 shares	and	£3,715,000 	was 	paid	 in	 cash. 	
Additional 	 amounts	are	pa y ab le 	contingent 	on	the 	results	 of 	 the	 b usiness , 	capped	 a t 	 the	 maxim um 	 of 	 £8,300,000 	
(undiscounted).	 As	a t 	31	December	2013,	£776,000	(discounted 	 f or 	finance	 costs) 	 has 	 been 	 pro vided 	 f or 	as	 deemed 	
rem unera tion. 	T he 	deemed	rem unera tion 	is	e xpected 	to	be	 paid	in 	2016	and	2019.	 T he 	total 	maxim um 	considera tion 	 and	
deemed	rem unera tion 	pa y ab le 	f or 	W ARL 	is	£13,400,000.
W ARL 	was	acquired 	b y	Chime’ s 	Ad v er tising 	and 	Mar k eting 	 Ser vices 	division.
T he 	fair	v alue 	of 	 the 	net	assets 	acquired 	 is 	 detailed	below .
Provisional
book value
£’000
Fair value 
adjustments
£’000
Provisional 
fair values
£’000
Intangible fixed assets 88 2,609 2,697
Property, plant and equipment 109 – 109 
Debtors and other current assets 3,905 (6) 3,899 
Cash at bank 381 – 381 
Creditors (3,049) (695) (3,744)
Net assets 1,434 1,908 3,342
Goodwill 1,704 
Fair value of consideration 5,046 
Cash consideration 3,715
Cash acquired (381)
Cash outflow arising on acquisition 3,334
T he 	adjustment 	to	intangib le 	fix ed 	assets	is	to	 de-recognise	£88,231	 tha t 	was 	recognised	 on	an	inter nall y 	genera ted 	basis	
and	to	recognise	£2,697,046 	of 	intangib les 	rela ting 	to	customer	contracts	and	 rela tionships . 	
T he 	adjustments 	to	creditor s	rela te	to	 additional 	accr uals 	identified	 b y 	management 	and 	to 	 recognise	 def er red 	 tax	on	
intangib le	fix ed	assets .	
Costs	 amounting 	 to	£253,657	ha v e 	been	e xpensed 	during	 the	y ear 	and	are 	inc luded 	in 	opera ting 	e xpenses .
108			Chime 	 Communications	plc Goodwill 	represents	the 	specialist	retail 	and	shopper	mar k eting 	skills	 held	b y 	W ARL, 	 w hic h 	 adds	significant	 capacity	to	
V CCP’ s 	e xisting	of f ering 	f or 	integra ted	comm unica tions .
W ARL 	 contrib uted	re v en ue	of 	£5,280,631	and	opera ting	 loss	 of 	 £699,429	(after 	a	deemed	 rem unera tion 	 c harge 	of 	
£776,316)	to	the	results 	of 	the	Group	since 	acquisition.	If 	 the	 acquisition	had	 been 	 completed 	 a t	 the	beginning	 of 	the	y ear ,	
management	estima te 	tha t	Group	re v en ue	f or 	the 	period	 would 	 ha v e 	been	£8,646,734 	and	Group 	opera ting	loss 	would	ha v e	
been	£102,704.
People Marketing 
On 	15 	Ma y 	 2013	the	group	acquired	100%	of 	P eople	 Mar k eting 	 Limited	(‘PM’), 	a	 compan y 	incor pora ted 	in 	the 	United	
Kingdom,	 f or	 initial	 considera tion	 of 	 Hong	 K ong	 $128,000,000	 (£10,974,644).	 T his 	 considera tion	 was 	 pa y ab le	 o v er	 2	 tranc hes ,	
one	of 	Hong 	K ong	$25,600,000	(£2,168,646)	in 	cash	and	 a 	 second	 tranc he 	 of 	Hong	 K ong	 $102,400,000	(£8,805,998)	
pa y ab le	via	cash	Hong	K ong	$89,600,000 	(£7,522,487)	and	shares	 Hong	K ong	$12,800,000	 (£1,283,511).
Additional 	 amounts 	are	pa y ab le 	contingent 	on	the	 results	of 	the 	b usiness ,	 capped	a t 	the 	maxim um 	of 	Hong	 K ong	$97.0	
million 	(appro xima tel y 	£7.6 	 million	undiscounted).	As 	 a t	 31	December	2013	no	 pro vision 	 has	been	made	f or 	 deemed	
rem unera tion 	in	 accordance	with	 the	e xpected 	profile	of 	pa yment. 	T he 	 deemed 	 rem unera tion 	 is 	 e xpected 	to 	be	paid	in 	
2015	and	2016.	T he	total 	maxim um	considera tion 	and	deemed	rem unera tion	pa y ab le	f or	 PM	is	Hong 	K ong 	 $225.0 	 million	
(appro xima tel y 	£18.6	million).
PM	 was	acquired 	 b y 	Chime’ s 	Spor t 	and 	Enter tainment 	 division.
T he	fair 	v alue	of 	 the	net	assets 	acquired 	is	detailed	below .
Provisional
book value
£’000
Fair value 
adjustments
£’000
Provisional 
fair values
£’000
Intangible fixed assets – 2,538 2,538
Debtors and other current assets 246 – 246 
Creditors (62) (533) (595)
Net assets 184 2,005 2,189 
Goodwill 8,786 
Fair value of consideration 10,975 
Cash consideration 9,691
Cash acquired –
Cash outflow arising on acquisition 9,691
T he 	adjustment	 to	intangib le 	fix ed 	assets	is	to	 recognise	 £2,537,580 	 of 	 intangib les 	 rela ting 	 to	 customer 	 contracts	and	
rela tionships . 	T he 	adjustments 	to	creditor s 	rela tes 	to 	the 	recognition	 of 	 def er red 	 tax	 on 	 intangib le 	 fix ed 	assets .
Costs 	amounting	 to	£808,030	ha v e 	been	e xpensed 	during 	the	 y ear 	 and 	 are	 inc luded 	 in	opera ting 	 e xpenses .
Goodwill 	represents	the 	specialist	skills	held 	b y 	PM	w hic h 	will	 significantl y 	 enhance	 the	 geographical	spread	 of 	 CSM	Spor t 	
and 	Enter tainment’ s 	activities	and 	pro vide 	access	to 	 the	 Chinese	and	South	 East	Asia	 mar k ets . 	
PM	contrib uted 	 re v en ue 	of 	£3,319,609	and	opera ting 	 profit 	 of 	 £458,186	to 	the	 results	 of 	 the	Group 	since 	acquisition.	If 	the	
acquisition	had 	been	completed	a t 	the 	beginning	 of 	 the	 y ear , 	 management	 estima te 	 tha t 	Group	 re v en ue 	f or 	 the	 period 	 would 	
ha v e 	been	£7,576,609	and	Group	opera ting 	profit	 would 	 ha v e 	been	£2,765,186.
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			109
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
15. Acquisition of subsidiaries (continued)
Just Marketing Inc.
On	20	No v ember	2013 	the	group 	acquired	100%	of 	J ust	 Mar k eting 	 Inc	(‘JMI’),	 a	compan y	 incor pora ted 	in 	the	 United	
Sta tes ,	 f or	initial	 considera tion	of 	USD$68,039,703 	(£42,296,296) 	 of 	 w hic h	 USD$51,359,945 	(£31,939,414)	 was	 paid	in 	
cash,	USD$2,795,508 	(£1,735,801)	was	paid	 in	shares	and	USD$13,884,250 	 (£8,621,081)	was 	paid	 via	 issue	of 	 Escrow	
Considera tion 	Shares 	to	an	escrow	agent.	T his 	comprised	of 	 Claims 	 Escrow	 Considera tion 	shares	 (USD$5,018,402 	
(£3,116,052)) 	and	 R e v en ue	Escrow	Considera tion	 Shares 	(USD$8,865,848	(£5,505,028). 	
T he 	c laims 	escrow 	considera tion 	shares	will	be 	 released 	on	20	 No v ember 	2014	should	 there 	 be 	 no	c laims 	and	the 	war ranty 	
pro vision	in	the	sale	and	purc hase 	agreement.	T he 	re v en ue 	 escrow 	 considera tion 	 shares	will	 be 	 released	 based	 on 	 re v en ues 	
due	to	be	receiv ed	b y	JMI	during	the	period 	1	J an uar y 	 2015	to 	31	 December 	 2017 	 pur suant 	 to	 new	 contracts	entered	 into	
f ollowing	31 	A ugust 	 2013,
Additional 	 def er red 	considera tion 	 shares 	will 	be	issued	 up 	 to	 a	maxim um 	 of 	685,865	 shares	(appro x. 	 USD$3.5m	(£2.2m)). 	
T his 	comprises	247,903	Claims 	Escrow	Def er red 	shares 	 (appro x. 	USD$1.3m	(£0.8m))	and	437,962	 R e v en ue 	 Escrow 	 def er red 	
shares	(appro x.	USD$2.2m	(£1.4m)).	Def er red 	considera tion	shares	 ha v e	been	pro vided 	f or 	 of 	 £2,160,475.
JMI 	was	acquired 	b y 	Chime’ s 	Spor t 	and	Enter tainment 	division.
T he 	fair	v alue 	of 	the 	 net	assets	acquired	is	detailed	below .
Provisional 
Book Value
£’000
Fair value 
adjustments
£’000
Provisional 
fair values
£’000
Intangible assets 13,499 (13,499) –
Goodwill 10,441 (10,441) –
Property, Plant and Equipment 577 (33) 544
Debtors and other current assets 8,042 3,776 11,818
Creditors (11,552) (79) (11,631)
Cash at bank 484 – 484
Long-term liabilities (760) – (760)
Net assets 20,731 (20,276) 455
Goodwill 44,002
Fair value of consideration  44,457
Fair value of initial consideration 42,297
Fair value of deferred consideration 2,160
Cash consideration 31,940
Cash acquired (484)
Cash outflow arising on acquisition 31,456
Due 	to	the	pro ximity 	of 	the	transaction 	to	the	issue 	of 	these	financial	sta tements 	the	 inf or ma tion 	required 	to	 prepare	the	
intangib le	v alua tion 	 f or 	 the	b usiness 	combina tion 	is	as	 y et 	 una v ailab le .
T he 	adjustment	to 	intangib le 	fix ed 	assets	is	to	derecognise	£13,498,732 	 tha t 	was 	recognised	 on	an	inter nall y 	 genera ted 	
basis .	 T he 	 adjustment	to	goodwill	is	to	derecognise	the	goodwill	 held	b y 	 JMI	from	 pre vious 	 acquisitions . 	
T he	adjustment	to 	proper ty , 	plant	and	equipment	is	to	bring	the 	JMI	deprecia tion 	 in	 line	with 	the	 Chime	 deprecia tion 	polic y .
T he 	adjustment	to 	other	cur rent 	assets 	is	the	recognition	of 	def er red 	tax 	asset	 on	intangib le 	fix ed 	 assets .
Costs 	amounting	to 	£3,589,459	ha v e 	been	e xpensed 	during	the	 y ear 	 and 	 are	 inc luded 	 in	opera ting 	 e xpenses .
110			Chime 	 Communications	plc Goodwill 	represents	the 	specialist	skills	held 	b y 	JMI	 w hic h 	will 	significantl y 	enhance 	the	 geographical	 spread 	 of 	CSM	 Spor t 	
and 	Enter tainment’ s	activities	and 	pro vide 	a	f oothold 	to	 the	 United	Sta tes 	and	 global	mar k ets . 	
JMI	contrib uted 	re v en ue 	 of 	£5,068,293 	and 	opera ting	loss 	of 	 £697,577 	 to	 the	 results	of 	the 	Group 	since	 acquisition.	 If 	the	
acquisition	had 	been	completed	a t	the 	beginning	 of 	 the	 y ear ,	 management	 estima te 	 tha t 	Group	 re v en ue	f or	 the	 period 	 would 	
ha v e	been	£31,391,164	and	Group	opera ting	loss	 would 	 ha v e	been	£257,718.
16. Other intangible assets
Brand 
names
£’000
Customer 
contracts and 
relationships
£’000
Computer 
software
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2012 486 6,757 1,188 8,431 
Additions – – 27 27 
Acquisition of subsidiaries – 3,006 – 3,006 
Disposal – (359) (19) (378)
Reclassify from Property, Plant and Equipment – – 378 378 
Exchange differences – (45) – (45)
At 1 January 2013 486 9,359 1,574 11,419 
Additions – – 379 379
Acquisition of subsidiaries – 7,130 18 7,148
Disposal – – (101) (101)
Reclassify from Property, Plant and Equipment – – 10 10
Exchange differences – (46) (4) (50)
At 31 December 2013 486 16,443 1,876 18,805
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2012 – 3,811 1,149 4,960 
Charge for the year – 2,944 81 3,025 
Disposal – – (13) (13)
Reclassify from Property, Plant and Equipment – – 213 213 
At 1 January 2013 – 6,755 1,430 8,185 
Charge for the year – 3,568 106 3,674
Disposal – – (95) (95)
Reclassify from Property, Plant and Equipment – – 3 3
At 31 December 2013 – 10,323 1,444 11,767
Net book amount
31 December 2013 486 6,120 432 7,038
31 December 2012 486 2,604 144 3,234 
1 January 2012 486 2,946 39 3,471 
Cor pora te 	brands	are	considered	to	ha v e 	indefinite 	 economic 	 lif e 	 because	 of 	 their	 pro v en 	mar k et 	 position	and	 the	Group’ s 	
commitment	 to	de v elop 	and 	enhance	 their 	v alue . 	On	this	 basis , 	it	 is 	 reasonab le 	 to	assign 	an	infinite 	lif e 	to 	these	 intangib le 	
assets 	and	re view 	them	on 	an	ann ual 	basis 	in	order	 to	assess	 w hether 	 there 	 has 	 been	an y 	 degrada tion 	of 	 a 	 Compan y’ s 	
brand	name .
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			111
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
17. Property, plant and equipment
Short-term 
leasehold 
improvements
£’000
Motor 
vehicles
£’000
Fixtures, fittings 
and computers
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2012 5,477 289 10,455 16,221 
Additions 312 41 2,725 3,078 
Acquisition of subsidiary 22 20 705 747 
Disposal of subsidiary – – (825) (825)
Exchange differences (1) – (57) (58)
Transfers (7) – 7 –
Reclassify to Other Intangibles – – (378) (378)
Disposals (1,523) (181) (1,530) (3,234)
At 31 December 2012 4,280 169 11,102 15,551 
Additions 2,432 23 3,290 5,745
Acquisition of subsidiary 82 248 305 635
Disposal of subsidiary – – (167) (167)
Exchange differences (7) (18) (39) (64)
Transfers – – – –
Reclassify to Other Intangibles 1 – (11) (10)
Disposals (418) (10) (967) (1,534)
At 31 December 2013 6,370 412 13,513 20,156
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2012 3,230 83 5,581 8,894 
Charge for the year 730 57 2,341 3,128 
Disposal of subsidiary (101) (101) (512) (714)
Transfers (3) – 3 - 
Reclassify to Other Intangibles - - (213) (213)
Exchange differences (1) – (28) (29)
Eliminated on disposal (1,078) – (1,302) (2,380)
At 31 December 2012 2,777 39 5,870 8,686 
Charge for the year 728 61 2,425 3,214
Disposal of subsidiary – – (153) (153)
Transfers – – – –
Reclassify to Other Intangibles – – (3) (3)
Exchange differences (3) (13) (11) (27)
Eliminated on disposal (393) – (866) (1,398)
At 31 December 2013 3,109 87 7,262 10,319
Net book amount
31 December 2013 3,261 325 6,251 9,837
1 December 2012 1,503 130 5,232 6,865 
1 January 2012 2,247 206 4,874 7,327 
T he 	 carrying 	 amount 	 of 	 the 	 Group’ s 	 motor 	 v ehic les 	 inc ludes 	 an 	 amount 	 of 	 £nil 	 (2012: 	 £34,375) 	 in 	 respect 	 of 	 assets 	 held 	 under 	 finance	
leases . 	 As 	 sta ted 	 in 	 note 	 26, 	 the 	 Group’ s 	 ob lig a tions 	 under 	 finance 	 leases 	 are 	 secured 	 b y 	 the 	 lessor’ s 	 c harges 	 o v er 	 the 	 leased 	 assets .
112			Chime 	 Communications	plc 18. Subsidiaries and associates 
T he	Group’ s 	 principal	trading	subsidiaries	and	associa ted 	under takings 	in 	2012	 are	listed	 below:
Company Nature of business
Country of 
incorporation
Proportion 
of ordinary 
shares held 
and voting 
rights
Subsidiaries
Big Eyes Communications Limited + Advertising and marketing United Kingdom 100%
Brand Democracy Limited *** Research United Kingdom 100%
Bullnose Limited *** Design consultancy United Kingdom 100%
Convivas Brasil Gestao de Eventos Esportivos Ltda Sports marketing consultancy Brazil 53%
Corporate Citizenship Limited +
Corporate & social responsibility 
consultancy United Kingdom 100%
The Corporate Citizenship Inc Corporate & social responsibility USA 100%
CSM Projetos Organizacao de Eventos SPE Ltda (FIFA SPV) Sports marketing consultancy Brazil 100%
CSM Sport and Entertainment Australia Pty Ltd
Athletes management and 
sports marketing Australia 100%
CSM Sport and Entertainment Espana S.L. Sports marketing consultancy Spain 81%
CSM Sports and Entertainment France Limited (formerly 
Essentially France Limited) +
Athletes management and 
sports consultancy United Kingdom 85%
CSM Sport and Entertainment New Zealand Limited 
Athletes management and 
sports consultancy New Zealand 100%
CSM Sport and Entertainment South Africa (Pty) Limited
Athletes management and 
sports marketing South Africa 100%
GR-1 Limited *** Public Relations United Kingdom 100%
Good Relations Consultants Limited *** Public Relations United Kingdom 100%
Earth Works Digital Limited Digital healthcare initiatives United Kingdom 60%
Essentially Athlete Management Limited * Athletes management United Kingdom 100%
Executive Drive Events LLC
Sports marketing and 
sponsorship USA 100%
Essentially Sports Marketing Limited * Sports marketing consultancy United Kingdom 100%
Facts International Limited + Research United Kingdom 100%
Fast Track Agency Limited *
Marketing consultancy and 
event management United Kingdom 100%
Fast Track Agency Scotland Limited Sports marketing consultancy United Kingdom 100%
Fast Track Events Limited * Event management United Kingdom 100%
Fast Track Hong Kong Limited Sports marketing consultancy Hong Kong 100%
Fast Track Middle East FZ LLC Sports marketing consultancy Abu Dhabi 100%
Fast Track Sailing Limited * Sports marketing consultancy United Kingdom 100%
FIL Market Research Limited + Research United Kingdom 100%
Golden Goal Sports Ventures Gestao Esportiva Ltd Sports marketing consultancy Brazil 60%
Good Relations Limited Public relations United Kingdom 100%
Good Relations Group USA Inc Public relations USA 100%
Gulliford Consulting Limited *** Strategic planning United Kingdom 100%
Harvard – Good Relations Group GmbH Public relations Germany 100%
Harvard Public Relations Limited + Public relations United Kingdom 100%
Harvey Walsh Limited Healthcare data analytics United Kingdom 51%
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			113
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
18. Subsidiaries and associates (continued)
Company Nature of business
Country of 
incorporation
Proportion 
of ordinary 
shares held 
and voting 
rights
Subsidiaries (continued)
Hooper Galton Limited ** Advertising and marketing United Kingdom 100%
Icon Display Limited * Sports marketing consultancy United Kingdom 100%
Icon Middle East LLC Sports marketing consultancy Qatar 100%
ICON Marketing em Display Ltda Sports marketing consultancy Brazil 92%
Icon Prolab Events Organising LLC Sports marketing consultancy Dubai 50%
iLUKA Limited *
Sports marketing and 
sponsorship consultancy United Kingdom 100%
iLUKA LLC
Sports marketing and 
sponsorship consultancy Russia 100%
Insight Marketing & Communications Limited Public relations United Kingdom 100%
JMI Motorsport Limited 
Sports marketing and 
sponsorship United Kingdom 100%
Just Marketing Inc
Sports marketing and 
sponsorship USA 100%
McKenzie Clark Limited * Branding for live events United Kingdom 100%
Open LEC Limited Healthcare public relations United Kingdom 100%
Opinion Leader Research Limited Market research United Kingdom 100%
People Marketing Sport and Entertainment (Shanghai) Co Ltd Sports marketing consultancy China 100%
PH Associates Limited Healthcare public relations United Kingdom 100%
PMP Legacy Limited * Sports marketing consultancy United Kingdom 100%
Pure Media Group Limited Media buying United Kingdom 100%
Resonate Communications Limited *** Consumer public relations United Kingdom 100%
Reynolds-MacKenzie Limited Healthcare public relations United Kingdom 100%
Rough Hill Limited Youth marketing and experiential United Kingdom 60%
Sportseen Limited *
Sports marketing and 
media sales United Kingdom 100%
Stuart Higgins Communications Limited * Sports marketing consultancy United Kingdom 100%
Succinct Communications Limited Healthcare education United Kingdom 100%
Teamspirit Brand Limited ***
Financial services advertising 
and marketing United Kingdom 100%
Teamspirit Business and Corporate Limited
Financial services advertising 
and marketing United Kingdom 53%
Teamspirit Limited +
Financial services advertising 
and marketing United Kingdom 100%
The Complete Leisure Group Limited Sports marketing consultancy United Kingdom 98%
Traffic – Good Relations Group GmbH Public relations Germany 100%
Tree (London) Limited ** Strategy and Research United Kingdom 100%
TTA Public Relations Limited + Property marketing United Kingdom 100%
VCCP Blue Limited *** Advertising and marketing United Kingdom 100%
VCCP Bratislava Advertising and marketing Slovakia 100%
VCCP Kin Limited ** Advertising and marketing United Kingdom 80%
VCCP Digital Limited *** Digital advertising and marketing United Kingdom 100%
114			Chime 	 Communications	plc Company Nature of business
Country of 
incorporation
Proportion 
of ordinary 
shares held 
and voting 
rights
Subsidiaries (continued)
VCCP GmbH Advertising and marketing Germany 100%
VCCP Health Limited Advertising and marketing United Kingdom 80%
VCCP Limited ** Advertising and marketing United Kingdom 100%
VCCP Live Limited Advertising and marketing United Kingdom 60%
VCCP Me Limited ** Direct marketing United Kingdom 100% 
VCCP Pty Ltd Advertising and marketing Australia 100%
VCCP s.r.o. Advertising and marketing Czech Republic 100%
VCCP Search Limited *** Search engine marketing United Kingdom 100%
VCCP Share Limited ** Advertising and marketing United Kingdom 90%
Watermelon Research Limited Digital Research United Kingdom 60%
Associates
Bell Pottinger Private Limited + Public relations United Kingdom 25%
Colour TV Limited + Television production United Kingdom 45%
Naked Eye Research Limited + Research United Kingdom 26%
Rare Corporate Design Limited + Corporate design United Kingdom 40%
StratAgile Limited Data analytics Singapore 40%
The Agency of Someone Limited Branding and design United Kingdom 40%
The Brand Marketing Team Limited (formerly Branded 
Moments Of Truth Limited) Consumer marketing United Kingdom 40%
X & Y Communications Limited + Public relations United Kingdom 29%
Capital 
investment
Limited Liability Partnerships
CSM Sport and Entertainment LLP Sports marketing consultancy United Kingdom 100%
Open Healthcare Communications LLP Healthcare public relations United Kingdom 51%
VCCP Group LLP Advertising and marketing United Kingdom 100%
+ Direct subsidiary/associate of Chime Communications plc
* Companies that transferred their business and assets to CSM Sport and Entertainment LLP
** Companies that transferred their business and assets to VCCP Group LLP 
***This company has taken advantage of the S479a exemption from audit
T he	 abo v e 	list	does	 not	inc lude 	all	the 	subsidiar y 	and	 associa te 	companies 	of 	Chime 	Comm unica tion 	 plc	 as	the	 director s	
consider	tha t	to 	giv e	 full	par ticular s 	of 	 all	Group	under takings	would	lead	 to	 a	sta tement	of 	e x cessiv e 	length.	A	 full	list	of 	
Group	under takings 	is	a ttac hed 	to	the 	la test 	ann ual 	retur n. 	
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			115
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
19. Investments in associates 
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Aggregate amounts relating to associates:
Total assets 20,650 40,853
Total liabilities (957) (22,215)
Net assets 19,693 18,638
Revenue 30,076 46,264
Profit for the year 1,248 1,868
Group’s share of profit of associates 692 560
Inc luded 	in	the	abo v e	 liabilities	owed	b y	the	associa tes	 are	loans	 from	the 	Group 	of 	£40,000.	(2012: 	£40,000).	T he	
unrecognised	share	of 	profit	of 	associa tes 	is	£31,000	(2012:	loss 	of 	£12,000) 	f or 	 the	y ear 	ending	 31	December	2013	and	
£86,000	cum ula tiv el y 	losses	to	31	 December 	2013.	
A	 list 	 of 	the	significant	in v estments 	in	associa tes , 	inc luding 	the	 name , 	countr y 	of 	incor pora tion, 	 propor tion 	 of 	 owner ship 	
interest 	 is	giv en 	in	note	18.
20. Other investments
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
At 1 January 354 1,014
Additions 160 104
Impairment of Investment – (764)
At 31 December 514 354
Additions 	to 	other	in v estments 	consist	of 	a	£160,000	uplift 	 to	 the	 quoted 	 mar k et 	 prices	 as 	 a t 	 31	December	2013. 	
21. Due from deferred consideration
Amounts	shown	are	due	from	the	 disposals	of 	Smithfield	Financial 	Limited 	and	Celerity	 Prof essional	 Ser vices 	Limited 	being 	
the 	 def er red	considera tion	due . 	Management	ha v e	assessed	the	 credit	risk	 associa ted 	 with	the 	balances	 and 	 are	sa tisfied	
tha t	the	balances 	are	reco v erab le . 	£25,000	(2012:	 £450,000)	 was	 receiv ed	in 	the 	y ear 	towards	the 	def er red	considera tion.	
Management	belie v e	 the	car r ying 	v alue	is	a	reasonab le 	appro xima tion	 of 	 the	v alue 	 of 	 the	asset.
22. Other financial assets
Amounts	shown	rela te 	to	the 	purc hase	of 	an	option	in	2012 	 w here b y	 on 	 e x ercise	 the	Group 	would	acquire 	Lord	 Coe’ s 	93%	
interest	in	Complete	Leisure	Group	Limited.	T his 	option	 was	e x ercised	 on	30	J an uar y 	2013	and	fur ther 	 inf or ma tion 	is	noted	in	
the 	 acquisition	of 	subsidiaries	note	15.	
 
116			Chime 	 Communications	plc 23. Trade and other receivables
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Amounts receivable from provision of services 57,475 47,841 
Other debtors 5,177 3,558 
Prepayments and accrued income 17,607 8,004 
80,259 59,403 
The ageing of the current trade receivables based on due date is as follows:
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Not overdue 33,358 26,417 
Overdue: 
Less than 30 days 11,473 12,682 
Between 30 and 60 days 7,357 3,991 
Between 60 and 90 days 2,410 2,735 
Between 90 and 180 days 1,846 1,317 
Between 180 and 360 days 995 1,282 
More than 360 days 702 241 
58,141 48,665
Provision for irrecoverable trade receivables (666) (824)
57,475 47,841 
T he 	a v erage 	credit	period	 a t	 y ear	end 	64 	da ys 	(2012:	57	da ys).	 T he 	Group’ s	 trade	 receiv ab les	are 	sta ted 	after	 allowances	f or 	
bad	and	doubtful 	 de bts . 	T his 	 allowance 	has 	been	deter mined 	 b y 	considering	specific	 doubtful	balances	and	b y 	ref erence 	to	
past 	default 	e xperience ,	an 	anal ysis	of 	 w hic h	is	as	 f ollows .	
Mo v ement	in	the	pro vision	 f or	ir reco v erab le 	trade 	receiv ab les:
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
At 1 January 824 2,390 
Amounts charged to operating expenses 53 624 
Acquisitions 69 10 
Disposal of subsidiary (1) (1,380)
Trade receivables written off (261) (758)
Amounts recovered during the year (13) (54)
Foreign exchange (5) (8)
At 31 December 666 824 
T he 	pro vision 	f or	ir reco v erab le 	trade	 receiv ab les	rela tes	 to	de bts 	tha t 	are	 past	 due 	 and 	 impaired.
T he 	Director s 	consider	tha t 	the 	car r ying 	amount	of 	 trade	and	 other 	 receiv ab les 	appro xima tes 	their	 fair	 v alue . 	 T rade 	 and	other	
receiv ab les 	are	predominantl y 	non-interest	bearing . 	 Concentra tions 	of 	credit	 risk 	 with	 respect	 to	 trade	receiv ab les 	are	limited	
due	to 	the	Group’ s 	customer 	base	being	large , 	 unrela ted 	 and 	 largel y 	billed	 in	 ad v ance . 	Due	 to	 this , 	the	 Director s 	 belie v e 	
there	 is 	 no 	fur ther 	credit	risk 	pro vision 	required	in	e x cess 	of 	the	 allowance	 f or 	bad 	and	doubtful	de bts .
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			117
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
24. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash	and	equiv alents 	inc lude 	£58,000	(2012:	£58,000)	of 	 cash	held	 f or 	cash	bac k ed	loan	 notes .	 T hese 	are	 held	a t	R o y al	
Bank 	 of 	Scotland	and	are	redeemab le 	on	demand	b y 	the	 loan	 note	holder s .
25. Trade and other payables
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Trade creditors 41,048 34,983 
Other taxation and social security 7,218 8,260 
Accruals and deferred income 36,883 23,757
Other creditors 5,061 3,656 
Loan notes 809 58 
91,019 70,714
T he 	a v erage 	credit 	period 	 tak en 	f or 	trade	purc hases 	a t 	y ear 	end	 is 	 76 	 da ys 	(2012:	46	 da ys). 	 T he 	Director s 	consider 	tha t 	the	
car r ying 	amount	of 	trade	pa y ab les 	appro xima tes 	to 	their	 fair	v alue . 	 T he 	Group	 has	financial	risk	 management	 policies	in	
place	to	ensure	tha t 	all	pa y ab les 	are 	paid	 within	the	credit	 time	 frame .
T he 	loan	notes	 held	in	the	loan	 note	deposits	of 	the	 same	 amount	 inc luded 	 within	cash	 and 	 cash 	 equiv alents . 	 Loan	notes	
totalling 	 £58,000 	 are	outstanding	as 	par t 	of 	 the	initial	and	contingent	considera tion 	on	the 	acquisition 	of 	HHCL	Group 	Limited	
and	 V CCP	Limited. 	T he 	loan	notes 	 are 	held	b y	R o y al	Bank 	 of 	 Scotland	 plc	on	 a	deposit	 of 	£58,000.	Unsecured	 Loan 	 notes	
are 	outstanding 	as 	par t 	of 	the	F ast 	 T rac k 	 Limited	and 	Icon	Limited	 contingent	considera tion 	 on	the	 acquisitions . 	F ast 	T rac k 	
outstanding 	loan 	 notes	of 	£558,000	are 	redeemab le 	a t 	the	 option 	 of 	the	 Noteholder s 	 on	90	 da ys 	written	 notice 	 after	the 	
repa yment	da te . 	T his 	is	twelv e 	months	from	the 	issue	da te 	of 	8	 A pril 	2013.	 Icon	outstanding	loan 	notes 	of 	£193,000	 present	
are	 redeemab le	a t	the	option	of 	the	Noteholder s	on 	90	da ys 	written	 notice 	 after	the 	repa yment	da te . 	T his 	is	six	months	from 	
the 	issue	da te 	 of 	8	September	2013.	
26. Obligations under finance leases
Year ended
31 December 2013
Year ended
31 December 2012
Minimum 
lease 
payments
£’000
Present 
value of 
lease payments
£’000
Minimum 
lease 
payments
£’000
Present value 
of lease 
payments
£’000
Amounts payable under finance leases
Within one year 20 20 107 107
Between one and five years – – 20 20
20 20 127 127
Less future finance charges – – – –
Present value of finance lease obligations 20 20 127 127
T he 	Group	leases 	cer tain	of 	its	motor 	v ehic les ,	fixtures ,	fittings	 and 	 equipment 	 under	finance	leases . 	
T he 	lease	ter ms	are	up 	 to 	4	y ear s . 	T he	finance	leases	bear	 interest 	 a t 	 ra tes 	between 	9%	 and 	 12%.T he	 fair	 v alue	 of 	 the	
Group’ s	lease	ob lig a tions	appro xima tes	their 	car r ying 	amount.	T he	 Group’ s 	ob lig a tions	 under 	 finance	leases	 are	secured 	b y	
the 	lessor s’	c harges 	o v er	the	leased	assets .	
118			Chime 	 Communications	plc 27. Bank overdrafts and loans
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Bank loans and overdrafts 58,023 13,529 
The borrowings are repayable as follows:  
On demand or within one year 171 144 
Between one and two years – – 
Between three and five years 57,852 13,385 
After five years – –
Bank loans 58,023 13,529 
 
Amount due for settlement within 12 months 171 144 
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 57,852 13,385 
58,023 13,529 
Cash 	deposits 	and	bank	loans	 are 	held	a t 	either	v ariab le 	ra tes 	 of 	 interest 	 or	a t 	ra tes 	 fix ed 	f or 	periods 	of 	no	 longer	than 
three 	months .
T he	principal	f ea tures 	of 	the	Group’ s 	bor rowings 	with	 the	 R o y al 	 Bank 	 of 	Scotland	 and 	 HSBC 	 Bank 	 plc	 (as	additional	lender)	
are 	as	f ollows:
(i)	 T he 	 Group 	has	a	rolling	o v erdraft 	facility	of 	£5	 million. 	 T he	o v erdraft	facility 	is	repa y ab le 	on	demand.
(ii)	 T he 	 Group 	has	a	committed	facility	of 	£90 	million.	 T he 	ter m 	of 	the 	facility	 is 	 until	 30	September	 2016.
(iii)	 T he 	bank	 loan	incur red 	interest	a t 	1.75%	and	 2.25%	 abo v e 	 LIBOR	 until	October	 2013 	 w hen 	this	increased 	to 	2.00%	and 	
2.75%	abo v e 	LIBOR,	depending	on	 use	of 	the	 facility	 compared	to	 EBITD A; 	 the	 o v erdraft 	 bear s 	interest	a t 	1.75%	abo v e 	
base 	ra te .
(iv)	 A 	 cross-guarantee	e xists 	between	the	 majority	of 	w holl y-owned 	subsidiaries	 and 	 the	 parent	compan y . 	R o y al 	 Bank	of 	
Scotland	plc	and	HSBC	Bank	plc	hold	de bentures 	o v er 	the 	assets	 of 	the	 Compan y 	and	the	 subsidiaries	 in	respect	of 
the 	bank	loans .
(v)	 T he 	weighted	a v erage 	interest	ra te 	applied 	in	the 	y ear 	is	2.30% 	(2012: 	 2.08%).
At 	31 	December 	2013	the	Group 	had 	 dra wn 	down	£59	 million	(2012: 	£14	 million) 	 (gross	of 	 capitalised	facility 	costs	of 	
£1.3	million	(2012: 	£0.7 	million))	of 	the	 bor rowing	 facility	 and 	 had 	 a v ailab le 	£27.8	 million	 (2012: 	 £27.8	million) 	of 	undra wn	
committed	bor rowing	facilities	in	respect	of 	w hic h	all	 conditions	precedent	 had 	 been 	 met.	T he	 Group	 had 	 utilised	£648,000	
of 	the	o v erdraft 	facility	a t 	y ear 	end.
T he 	fair	v alues 	of 	bank	o v erdrafts 	and	loans 	are 	deter mined 	b y 	 considering 	 the	 ma turity 	da tes .
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			119
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
28. Deferred consideration 
Contingent	considera tion 	rela tes 	to 	acquisitions	made	in	cur rent 	 and 	 pre vious	 y ear s . 	 T he	amounts 	pa y ab le 	are	 dependent	
on	the 	future	profits 	of 	the	companies	acquired. 	 Fur ther 	 details	of 	the 	def er red 	 considera tions 	 arising	from	 cur rent 	 y ear 	
acquisitions	are	 shown 	in	note	34.	Timing	of 	pa yments 	of 	def er red 	considera tion 	 is 	 set	 out	in 	the 	rele v ant 	Sale	 and 
Purc hase 	Agreements .
At 	31	December	2013 	appro xima tel y 	£12,632,000	 (2012: 	£13,131,000)	of 	the 	def er red 	considera tion 	 is 	 e xpected 	to	 be	
settled	 in 	 cash 	 and	£4,701,000	(2012: 	£2,814,000)	in	shares 	 bef ore 	 discounting . 	 T he 	n umber 	of 	shares	 to	be	 issued	in 
all 	instances 	is	based	on	the 	mar k et	v alue 	prior	to 	the	issue	 of 	 the	 shares .	Chime 	retains	 the	 right	to	 sa tisfy 	 a	higher 	
propor tion	in	cash.
Deferred/ 
Contingent 
consideration
£’000
At 1 January 2013 15,950 
On acquisition of subsidiaries 2,373
Adjustment to prior year acquisitions 3,287
Discounting charge to the income statement 309
Payments made (3,865)
Foreign exchange (721)
At 31 December 2013 17,333
Included in current liabilities 5,725
Included in non-current liabilities 11,608
17,333
Deferred/ 
Contingent 
consideration
£’000
At 1 January 2012 13,048 
On acquisition of subsidiaries 11,114
Adjustment to prior year acquisitions (2,387)
Discounting charge to the income statement 325
Disposed of as part of sale (801)
Payments made (5,067)
Foreign exchange (282)
At 31 December 2012 15,950
Included in current liabilities 3,966
Included in non-current liabilities 11,984
15,950
120			Chime 	 Communications	plc 29. Deemed remuneration
Deemed	rem unera tion 	rela tes	to	acquisitions	made	in 	cur rent 	and	 pre vious	 y ear s . 	 T he	amounts	pa y ab le 	are 	dependent	
on	 the 	future	profits	of 	 the	companies 	acquired. 	 Fur ther 	details	 of 	 the	deemed	 rem unera tion 	 arising	from	 cur rent 	 y ear 	
acquisitions	are	 shown	in	note 	34.	Timing	of 	pa yments 	 of 	 def er red 	 considera tion 	is	set 	out 	in	 the	 rele v ant 	 Sale	and 
Purc hase 	Agreements .
Deemed 
 remuneration
£’000
At 1 January 2013 14,679
Discounting charge to the income statement 6,770
Payments made (16,274)
Deemed Remuneration charge on acquisition of subsidiaries –
Deemed Remuneration charge LLP capital contribution 1,376
At 31 December 2013 6,551
Included in current liabilities 1,671
Included in non-current liabilities 4,880
6,551
Deemed  
remuneration
£’000
At 1 January 2012 3,136
Discounting charge to the income statement 270
Deemed Remuneration charge on acquisition of subsidiaries 11,273
Deemed Remuneration charge LLP capital contribution –
At 31 December 2012 14,679
Included in current liabilities 13,815
Included in non-current liabilities 864
14,679
30. Provisions
Vacant property
T he	v acant	 proper ty	pro vision	a t	31	December 	2013	rela tes 	to 	se v en	b uildings:	 one	near	 Hea throw , 	three	in 	Central	London,	
two	in	 South 	 London 	 and 	one 	in	Glasgow . 	 Pro visions 	f or 	 proper ty 	represent	amounts	set	 aside	in 	respect 	of 	proper ty 	leases 	
w hic h 	 are	onerous	and	the	una v oidab le 	costs 	of 	restoring	leasehold 	proper ties 	to 	the	 condition	specified	 in	the 	lease	a t 	
the	end	of 	the 	 contractual	ter m. 	T he 	quantifica tion 	of 	eac h 	of 	 the	pro visions 	has	 been 	 deter mined 	based	 on	managements	
best 	estima te 	and	is	dependent	on 	the	Group’ s 	ability	 to	 e xit 	the 	leases	 ear l y 	or	 to	 sub let 	 the	 proper ties . 	 In	 general,	proper ty 	
costs 	are	e xpected 	to	 be 	incur red 	o v er 	periods	f or 	 w hic h 	 individual	 proper ties 	 remain	v acant 	or , 	 w here 	occupied,	to	the 	
ter mina tion	of 	 the 	leases 	in	question.	During	the	y ear	the 	group	made	 pro visions 	of 	 £791,000. 	It	 is 	 e xpected	tha t	 this	
pro vision	will	be	utilised	o v er 	 the	period 	to	2017.
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			121
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
30. Provisions (continued)
Vacant property
£’000
Other provisions
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2013 2,653 17 2,670
Charged to the income statement 791 – 791
Payments made (1,372) (17) (1,389)
Foreign exchange – – –
At 31 December 2013 2,072 – 2,072
Included in current liabilities 1,420 – 1,420
Included in non-current liabilities 652 – 652
2,072 – 2,072
Gross obligations 
under put options
£’000
Vacant property
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2012 302 – 302
Charged to the income statement 2,491 17 2,508
Payments made (137) – (137)
Foreign exchange (3) – (3)
At 31 December 2012 2,653 17 2,670
Included in current liabilities 1,191 17 1,208
Included in non-current liabilities 1,462 – 1,462
2,653 17 2,670
31. Share capital
2013 2012
Number
Nominal value
£’000 Number
Nominal value
£’000
Called up, allotted and fully paid at 1 January
Ordinary shares at 25p each 82,089,801 20,522 80,948,500 20,237 
Issues relating to acquisitions 7,253,232 1,813 903,313 226 
Issues relating to deferred consideration 42,228 11 – –
Issues relating to placing of shares 8,533,334 2,133 – –
Issued to staff under share options 197,525 50 237,988 59 
Called up, allotted and fully paid at 31 December 98,116,120 24,529 82,089,801 20,522 
T he 	Compan y	has	 one 	 c lass	of 	ordinar y 	shares	w hic h 	 car r y	no	right	 to	 fix ed	income .
1,494,501 	 shares 	 with 	 a 	 fair 	 v alue 	 of 	 £3,735,057 	 were 	 issued 	 on 	 3 	 A pril 	 2013 	 in 	 rela tion 	 to 	 the 	 acquisition 	 of 	 ICON 	 Displa y 	 Limited.
1,530,322 	shares 	with	a	fair 	 v alue	of 	£4,046,171	were	issued	 on 	 3	A pril	 2013 	 in	 rela tion	 to	 the	 acquisition 	 of 	 iL UKA	 Limited.
521,062 	 shares 	 with 	 a 	 fair 	 v alue 	 of 	 £1,330,792 	 were 	 issued 	 on 	 30 	 Ma y 	 2013 	 in 	 rela tion 	 to 	 the 	 acquisition 	 of 	 W ARL 	 Group 	 Limited.
42,228 	 shares 	 with 	 a 	 fair 	 v alue 	 of 	 £109,487 	 were 	 issued 	 on 	 8 	 A ugust 	 2013 	 in 	 rela tion 	 to 	 the 	 acquisition 	 of 	 McK enzie 	 Clark 	 Limited.
419,448 	 shares 	 with 	 a 	 fair 	 v alue 	 of 	 £1,071,270 	 were 	 issued 	 on 	 8 	 A ugust 	 2013 	 in 	 rela tion 	 to 	 the 	 acquisition 	 of 	 P eople 	 Mark eting .
8,533,334 	shares 	with	a	fair 	 v alue 	of 	£25,600,002	 were 	issued	 on 	 30	October	2013	 in	 rela tion 	 to	the 	placing 	of 	shares	 on	 the	
acquisition 	of 	JMI.
3,287,899 	shares 	with	a	fair 	v alue 	of 	£9,863,697	were	issued	 on	20	No v ember 	 2013 	 in	 rela tion 	to	 the	 acquisition 	 of 	 JMI.
197,525 	 shares	were 	issued	to	staf f 	in	rela tion 	to	share	sc hemes 	a t 	prices 	between 	 £0.675	and	 £2.975.
122			Chime 	 Communications	plc 32. Share premium and other reserves
Share premium
Share	 premium	arises	from	capital	raised	in	an	issue	of 	
shares , 	 net 	of 	costs , 	to 	the	e xtent	tha t	 e x ceeds	the	 nominal	
v alue	of 	the 	 shares .
Own shares
T he 	own	shares	reser v e 	represents	 the 	cost	of 	shares	 in	
Chime	Comm unica tions	Plc	purc hased 	in	the 	mar k et 	 and 	
held	b y	the	Chime 	 Comm unica tions	Emplo y ee	T r ust 	to 	sa tisfy 	
options	under	the	Group’ s 	share	options	sc hemes , 	def er red 	
shares 	 and 	Co-In v estment 	plans	(see 	note	36).
T he 	Chime 	Comm unica tions 	Emplo y ee	T r ust 	 (‘T he	 T r ust’) 	was 	
estab lished 	in	 1997	in	J er se y .	T he 	tr ustee 	is	Computer share 	
T r ustees 	 (J er se y) 	 Limited. 	T he 	 beneficiaries 	of 	the	 T r ust 	 are	
emplo y ees 	and	f or mer 	emplo y ees 	of 	the 	Compan y 	and	the 	
Group	(inc luding 	 an y 	Director) 	and 	the 	spouses	and	c hildren 	
or	stepc hildren	 of 	suc h	emplo y ees	or	f or mer 	 emplo y ees . 	
T he	pur pose 	of 	the	 T r ust 	is	to	facilita te 	and	encourage	 the	
owner ship 	of 	shares	b y 	emplo y ees . 	Distrib utions 	from	 the	
T r ust 	are	 agreed	b y 	the	tr ustee 	on	recommenda tions 	 from	
the	Board	of 	Director s 	of 	Chime	Comm unica tions	 plc .
T he 	T r ust 	cur rentl y 	holds 	910,704	(2012:	1,261,702)	
ordinar y	shares 	w hic h 	 ha v e 	a	nominal	v alue 	of 	£228,000	
(2012:	£315,000)	and	o v er 	w hic h	def er red 	share	were	
granted	December	2010,	Ma y 	2011, 	J une 	2011,	J une 	 2012,	
September 	2012,	A pril, 	Ma y 	and	December	2013	 and 	 Co	
In v estment 	Plan 	shares	in	September	2011 	and	October	
2012 	and	P erf or mance 	Share	Plan	shares	in	Ma y 	2013.	
85,383	(2013:	313,269)	shares	were	purc hased 	 in 	2013	a t 	a	
nominal	v alue 	of 	£21,346,	representing 	0.09%	(2012: 	0.38%)	
of 	the	called 	up 	share	capital	a t 	31	 December 	2013.	All	
costs	of 	the 	 T r ust 	are	bor ne 	b y 	Chime	Comm unica tions 	 plc	
and	e xpensed 	through	the 	income	sta tement.
T he 	 T r ust 	has	 opted	to 	waiv e 	all	 dividends	with 	the	e x ception 	
of 	those 	shares	 alloca ted 	under	the 	def er red 	share	sc heme 	
(see	 note	 36). 	 T he 	mar k et 	v alue 	of 	the 	shares	 in	the	 T r ust 	a t 	
31	 December 	 2013 	 was	 £3,069,000	 (2012: 	£2,911,000).
During 	 the	y ear 	436,381	 shares	were	 released	from	the	tr ust 	
under	 the 	 v arious	 group	 share	 sc hemes	 resulting 	 in	 a 	 c harge	
directl y 	 to	 reser v es	of 	£1,000,000.
Capital reduction reserve
T he	Capital	 reduction 	 reser v e	rela tes 	 to	 the	capital	
reduction	under tak en	 in	 October 	 2003.	 T he	reser v e 	 was	
not	 to	 be 	 trea ted 	as	realised	 profits 	 of 	 the	 Compan y 	until	
an y	 de bt 	or	 c laim 	 outstanding 	 as	a t 	1	 J ul y 	2003	has	been	
repaid	 or	remedied.	 If 	on	 1	J ul y 	2013	 there 	 remained	onl y	
liabilities	 outstanding 	 in	 rela tion	 to	 proper ty 	leases , 	the	
amount 	 outstanding 	 to	 the	 reser v e 	 could	be	 released	and 	
the	 under taking 	disc harged 	 or	replaced	 b y 	new 	share	
issues .	 During	2013	 these	conditions	 were 	 sa tisfied 	 and	
the	 reser v es 	ha v e 	now 	been	released 	to	 the	 distrib utab le	
reser v es 	of 	the 	Compan y .
Translation reserve
T he 	transla tion 	reser v e 	rela tes 	to	 e x c hange 	dif f erences 	
arising	on	 consolida tion 	 of 	 o v er seas 	 opera tions .
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			123
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
32. Share premium and other reserves (continued)
Accumulated profit
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2013 22,772
Dividends paid (6,289)
Net loss for the year (10,671)
Disposal of subsidiary –
Disposed of on exercise of options (1,000)
Recycle purchase of non-controlling interest on disposal (1,138)
Credit to equity for equity settled share based payments 260
Release of capital reduction reserve 32,385
Adjustment arising from change on non–controlling interest –
Balance at 31 December 2013 36,319
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2012 32,328 
Effect of change in accounting policy (see note 2) (3,025)
Restated balance at 1 January 2012 29,303
Dividends paid (5,349)
Net loss for the year (1,272)
Disposal of subsidiary (48)
Disposed of on exercise of options (2,067)
Recycle purchase of non-controlling interest on disposal 1,770 
Credit to equity for equity settled share based payments 2,216 
Adjustment arising from change on non-controlling interest (1,781)
Balance at 31 December 2012 22,772 
124			Chime 	 Communications	plc 33. Notes to the cash flow statement
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Operating profit 19 4,893
Adjustments for:
Loss on discontinued operations before tax – (54)
Share-based payment expense (128) 1,933 
Deemed remuneration 7,800 11,274 
Changes to deferred consideration 3,229 –
Translation differences (553) (268)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 3,320 3,209 
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets 5,280 2,944 
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 117 434 
Increase/(decrease) in provisions (598) 2,371 
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 18,486 26,736 
Increase in work in progress (4,052) 1,124 
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (8,141) 10,736 
Increase/(decrease) in payables 4,573 (19,099)
Cash generated from operations 10,866 19,497 
Income taxes paid (6,395) (6,926)
Interest paid (1,325) (587)
Net cash from operating activities 3,146 11,984 
34. Contingent liabilities and commitments
Deferred and contingent consideration
In	addition	to	 the 	potential 	def er red	and	contingent	considera tion 	pro vided 	 as	disc losed 	 in	note 	28	 of 	 £17,333,000	a t 
31 	December 	2013	there	was	a	 maxim um 	financial	commitment	 of 	 £24,981,000 	 undiscounted	(2012: 	£28,033,000)	 in 
respect 	 of 	unpro vided	def er red 	contingent	 considera tion 	 pa y ab le	 in	 respect	 of 	 acquisitions	 of 	 subsidiar y	 under takings . 
T he 	calcula tion 	of 	the 	def er red	considera tion 	liability 	requires	estima tes 	to 	be	made	 reg arding 	 the	f orecast 	future	
perf or mance 	 of 	these	b usinesses 	f or 	the	 ear nout 	period.	 T he 	unpro vided 	def er red 	contingent	considera tion 	 would	become	
pa y ab le 	o v er 	periods	from	2013	to	2018	and	would	 be	pa y ab le 	 in	 cash/loan	 notes	or 	cash/loan	notes	 and	new	 shares . 	
Deemed remuneration
In	addition 	 to	the	deemed	rem unera tion 	pro vision 	as	 disc losed 	 in	 note	 29 	 of 	 £6,551,000	 cur rentl y 	 pro vided 	 a t 	 31 	 December	
2013,	£16,555,000	(2012:	 £12,615,000) 	will	be	e xpensed 	 o v er 	the 	period	 of 	 the	 ser vice 	 based	on	 the	 cur rent 	 fair	v alue . 	In	
addition	an	amount	of 	£35,313,000	(2012:	£10,035,000) 	 (undiscounted)	would	be	c harged	under	 the	 ear n-out 	 agreements	
should	maxim um 	 perf or mance 	targets	be	met.	T he	calcula tion	of 	the 	deemed	rem unera tion	liability	 requires 	 estima tes	to	
be	made	reg arding 	the 	f orecast	future	perf or mance 	of 	 these	b usinesses	 f or 	the 	period	 of 	 ser vice . 	 T he	unpro vided	 deemed	
rem unera tion	would	become 	pa y ab le 	o v er 	 periods	from	 2013	to	 2018	and	would	be	 pa y ab le 	in 	cash/loan	notes 	or	cash/loan	
notes 	and 	new	shares .
 
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			125
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
35. Operating lease arrangements
The Group as lessee
At 	 the	balance	 sheet	da te , 	the	Group 	had 	outstanding	commitments 	 f or 	future	 minim um 	lease 	pa yments	under	 non-
cancellab le	opera ting	leases ,	w hic h	 fall	due 	as 	f ollows:
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Within one year 7,874 6,837
Between one and two years 6,752 6,055
Between three and five years 16,519 14,243
Greater than five years 13,364 12,667
44,509 39,802
Opera ting 	lease	pa yments 	represent	rentals	pa y ab le 	b y 	the	 Group	 primaril y 	 f or 	its	 of fice 	proper ties . 	Leases	are 	negotia ted 	 f or 	
an	a v erage 	ter m 	of 	13	y ear s 	 and 	rentals	are	fix ed 	f or 	an	a v erage 	 of 	 5	y ear s 	 a t 	 the	pre v ailing 	 mar k et 	ra te . 	
The Group as lessor
At 	 the	balance	 sheet	da te , 	the	Group 	had 	contracted	with	tenants	f or 	 the	 f ollowing 	 future	minim um 	lease 	pa yments:
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Within one year 854 1,412
Between one and two years 64 1,475
Greater than five years – 234
918 3,121
Proper ty 	rental	income	ear ned 	from	subtenants	during	the	y ear 	was 	£2,381,000 	(2012:	£2,043,000).
36. Share-based payments
T he 	Group	opera tes 	v arious	share	plans	rela ting 	to	shares	in 	the 	parent 	compan y	 inc luding	an	 e x ecutiv e 	 share	option	
sc heme , 	an	emplo y ee 	sa vings 	rela ted 	share	option	sc heme 	(SA YE), 	 a	def er red 	 share	sc heme , 	 the	 V CCP 	P ar tner s 	 Sc heme , 
a 	 Co-In v estment	Plan	 and	a	P erf or mance 	Share	Plan.
T he	Group	recognised	total	re v en ue 	in	2013	of 	£128,000	(2012:	 e xpenses	of 	£1,932,000)	rela ted	 to	 equity-settled 
share-based 	pa yment 	transactions .
Share Options (executive options and SAYE)
T he 	e x ercise	price	 of 	the	options	granted	under 	the	e x ecutiv e	share	 option 	 sc heme	 is 	 equal	to	 the	 mar k et 	v alue 	 of 	 the	
Group’ s	shares	a t	the	time	w hen 	the	options	are	granted.	 T he	v esting 	 period 	 is 	 generall y	three	y ear s 	b ut 	if 	 the y	 are	special 	
options 	it	is	fiv e	y ear s . 	If 	the	options	remain 	une x ercised	after 	a	period 	of 	10	 y ear s 	 from	the 	da te 	 of 	 grant,	the	 options 	 e xpire .	
Fur ther more , 	options	are	f orf eited 	 if 	the	emplo y ee 	lea v es 	 the	 Group	bef ore 	 the	options	v est. 	
T he 	e x ercise	price	 of 	the	options	granted	under 	the	emplo y ee	sa vings 	 rela ted	sc heme	 is 	 80%	of 	the 	mar k et	 v alue	 a t	 the	
da te	of 	of f er .	T he 	v esting	period	is	fiv e 	y ear s , 	if 	the 	options	remain	 une x ercised 	 six 	 months 	 after	this	 da te , 	the 	options	e xpire .	
Fur ther more , 	the	options	are	f orf eited	if 	the 	emplo y ee 	lea v es 	 the	Group 	bef ore 	the 	options	v est.
126			Chime 	 Communications	plc T he	f ollowing 	inf or ma tion 	rela tes	to	these 	share	option	 sc hemes:
2013 2012
Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (in £) Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (in £)
Outstanding at beginning of year 1,016,631 1.270 1,384,679 1.203
Granted during the year 199,099 2.056 171,947 1.830
Lapsed during the year (108,537) 1.461 (218,708) 1.491
Exercised during the year (226,981) 1.269 (321,287) 1.128
Outstanding at the end of the year 880,212 1.425 1,016,631 1.270
Exercisable at the end of the year 98,799 221,098 
Weighted average remaining contractual life 912 days 877 days
Weighted average share price for options exercised 
at date of exercise £2.739 £2.228
New 	options	were	granted 	 on	10	Ma y 	2013.	T he 	ag greg a te 	 of 	 the	 estima ted 	fair 	v alues 	of 	the 	options	granted	 on	tha t 	da te 	is	
£87,500.	In	 2012	options	were 	 granted 	on 	26	October	 2012,	the 	ag greg a te 	 of 	 the	 estima ted 	 fair	v alues 	of 	the 	options	 granted 	
on	tha t 	da te	is	£64,000.
T he 	fair	v alue 	was	calcula ted 	using	the	Monte	Car lo 	 and 	 Binomial	 models . 	 In	 v aluing 	the	 options , 	the	 f ollowing 	 assumptions	
were	used:
2013 2012
Weighted average share price £2.54 £2.067
Weighted average exercise price £2.056 £1.830
Expected volatility 50.9% 55.0%
Expected life-savings related scheme 5.7 years 5.7 years
Risk-free rate 0.5% 0.50%
Dividend yield 2.85% 3.18%
Expected 	v ola tility 	was	deter mined 	b y 	calcula ting 	the 	historical	 v ola tility 	 of 	 the	 Group’ s 	share 	price 	 o v er 	 the	 pre vious 	fiv e 	
y ear s . 	T he 	e xpected	lif e	used 	 in	the	model	has 	been	 adjusted, 	 based	 on	management’ s 	 best	estima te , 	f or	 the	 ef f ects	 of 
non-transf erability , 	e x ercise 	restrictions , 	and	beha vioural 	considera tions .
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			127
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
36. Share-based payments (continued)
Deferred shares
Under	the	def er red	share	 sc heme , 	restricted	shares	are	a warded 	to	 emplo y ees	a t	no	 cost	to 	the 	emplo y ee .	 T he	v esting	
period	is	fix ed	a t	the	grant	da te	b y	the	R em unera tion 	Committee . 	Cur rentl y 	there	are 	grants	 o v er	 v esting 	 periods	of 	one ,	 two ,	
three 	 and 	f our 	y ear s 	from	the 	da te 	of 	a ward. 	If 	the	emplo y ee 	 lea v es 	 the	 Group	 bef ore 	 v esting 	then 	the	 restricted	shares	are	
f orf eited. 	T he 	emplo y ee 	 receiv es 	the	dividend 	on	the 	shares	 during	the 	v esting 	 period.
2013
Deferred 
shares
2012
Deferred 
shares
Outstanding at beginning of year 364,649 809,600 
Granted during the year 546,194 195,867 
Forfeited in the year – –  
Lapsed (1,597) (168)
Released during the year (100,199) (640,650)
Outstanding at the end of the year 809,047 364,649 
Weighted average remaining contractual life 714 days 550 days
Weighted average share price for deferred shares released at date of release £2.463 £1.642
T he 	restricted	shares 	were	a warded 	on	15	A pril 	 2013,	21	 Ma y 	 2013 	 and	2	December	2013. 	T he 	 share	price 	a t 	the	 da te 	
of 	eac h	a ward	was	£2.560,	£2.618	and	£3.073 	 respectiv el y . 	T he	 estima ted	 fair	v alue	 of 	 the	restricted	 shares	a warded	 is	
£1,581,000	 (2012:	£251,000).
T he 	fair	v alue 	was	 calcula ted 	with	 ref erence 	to	the 	share	 price	 per taining 	 to	the 	shares	 a warded.
VCCP partners scheme
Under 	the	V CCP 	Incentiv e 	Sc heme , 	restricted	shares	are	 a warded 	to 	emplo y ees 	 a t 	 no	cost	 to 	 the	emplo y ee . 	 T he 	v esting 	
period	is	fix ed	a t	the	grant	da te	b y	the	R em unera tion 	Committee . 	Cur rentl y 	there	are 	grants	 o v er	 a	v esting 	period	 of 	 up	to	f our	
y ear s	from 	the 	 da te	of 	 a ward.	If 	the	emplo y ee	lea v es	the	Group 	within	the 	fir st 	 two 	y ear s	of 	 grant	then 	the	 restricted	shares	
are	 f orf eited. 	
Additional 	 restricted 	shares	 were 	not 	a warded 	during 	the	 y ear . 	T he	 estima ted	 fair	v alue	 of 	 the	restricted	 shares	a warded	in	
2013	is	nil	(2012:	£354,000).
128			Chime 	 Communications	plc T he	fair 	v alue 	was	calcula ted 	with	 ref erence 	to	the	 share	price 	per taining 	to 	the	 a ward.
2013
Deferred 
shares
2012
Deferred 
shares
Outstanding at beginning of year 305,646 200,845 
Granted during the year – 174,045 
Lapsed (2,461) –
Released during the year (303,185) (69,244)  
Outstanding at the end of the year – 305,646
Weighted average remaining contractual life – 132 days
Weighted average share price for deferred shares released at date of release £2.575 £1.741
Co-Investment Plan 2010
T he 	a ward 	shares	 a warded 	under	the 	2010	Co-In v estment	Plan	 are	a warded 	a t 	nil	 cost. 	 T he	a ward 	shares	 a warded	are	
subject	to	perf or mance 	criteria	as	set	 out	in	the	 repor t 	to 	the 	shareholder s 	on	 Director s’ 	 rem unera tion.
2013
Award 
shares
2012
Award 
shares
Outstanding at beginning of year 2,186,820 3,005,208 
Granted in the year – 356,370 
Lapsed during the year (853,116) (1,140,175)
Released during the year – (34,583)
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,333,704 2,186,820 
A ward	 shares	were	a warded 	on 	1	October	2012	and	 v est 	o v er 	three	y ear s . 	 T he 	total	 fair	 v alue 	 of 	 the	 a wards 	 granted	in	 2012 	
is 	£415,977.
T he 	weighted	a v erage	remaining 	contractual 	lif e	is 	 351	da ys 	 (2012: 	514	 da ys).
Performance Share Plan 2013
T he	a ward 	shares	 a warded 	under	the 	2013	P erf or mance 	Share	 Plan	are	 a warded	 a t	 nil	cost.	T he 	 a ward	shares	 a warded 	 are	
subject	to	perf or mance 	criteria	as	set 	out	in	the 	repor t 	to 	the 	shareholder s 	on	 Director s’ 	 rem unera tion.
2013
Award 
shares
2012
Award 
shares
Outstanding at beginning of year – –
Granted in the year 667,807 –
Released during the year – –
Outstanding at the end of the year 667,807 –
A ward 	 shares	were	a warded 	on 	2	December	2013	and	v est 	o v er 	 a	period	 up	to 	 three 	 y ear s . 	T he 	total	 fair	 v alue	 of 	the 	a wards	
granted 	 in	2013	is 	£1,070,618.
T he 	weighted	a v erage	remaining 	contractual 	lif e	is 	 1,186	 da ys .
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			129
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
37. Related party transactions
T ransactions 	between	the	Compan y 	and	its	subsidiaries , 	w hic h 	 are	 rela ted	par ties , 	 ha v e 	been	elimina ted	 on	consolida tion	
and	are	not	disc losed 	in	this	note	(details 	of 	subsidiaries	are	 inc luded 	 in	 note	18).	T ransactions 	between	 the	 Group	 and	its	
associa tes	are	disc losed 	below .
Trading transactions
During 	the	y ear , 	Group 	companies	entered 	into	the	f ollowing 	transactions	with	 rela ted 	par ties 	w ho 	 are	not 	member s 	of 
the 	Group .
2013
Sale of 
services
£’000
Purchase of 
services
£’000
Amounts 
owed by 
related 
parties
£’000
Amounts 
owed to 
related 
parties
£’000
Associates
Bell Pottinger Private Limited 2,898 178 34 273
Bell Pottinger Public Affairs Limited 25 – – 3
Bell Pottinger Public Relations Limited 68 35 – 24
Bell Pottinger Sans Frontiers 34 – – 8
Pelham Bell Pottinger 53 – – 18
Pelham Singapore – – – –
Bell Pottinger Middle-East – – – –
The Brand Marketing Team Limited 198 466 68 44
Colour TV Limited 30 – – 5
Ledbury Research Limited – – – –
Naked Eye Research Limited 8 – – 1
Rare Corporate Design Limited 53 85 – 4
Rare Publishing Limited – – – –
StratAgile Limited 5 155 5 5
The Agency of Someone Limited 6 2 – –
X&Y Communications Limited 41 – – –
Bell Pottinger Communications USA – – – –
Icon Display South Africa (ply) Ltd 1 – – –
Bell Pottinger LLP – 88 62 –
130			Chime 	 Communications	plc 2012
Sale of 
services
£’000
Purchase of 
services
£’000
Amounts 
owed by 
related 
parties
£’000
Amounts 
owed to 
related 
parties
£’000
Associates
Bell Pottinger Private Limited 542 202 10 –
Bell Pottinger Public Affairs Limited 53 54 24 –
Bell Pottinger Public Relations Limited 863 197 605 21
Bell Pottinger Sans Frontiers 166 31 75 5
Pelham Bell Pottinger 240 130 72 17
Pelham Singapore 17 – – –
Bell Pottinger Middle-East 5 1 – –
The Brand Marketing Team Limited 91 3 3 –
Colour TV Limited 20 – 12 –
Ledbury Research Limited 51 4 18 –
Naked Eye Research Limited 48 1 – –
Rare Corporate Design Limited 85 187 35 9
Rare Publishing Limited – 70 – –
StratAgile Limited – 5 5 –
The Agency of Someone Limited 3 268 – 53
X&Y Communications Limited 19 – – –
Bell Pottinger Communications USA 10 – – 432
Sales 	of 	goods 	to 	rela ted 	par ties 	were	made	on	an	ar m’ s 	length	basis .
T he	amounts 	outstanding	are 	unsecured	and	will	be	settled	 in	 cash.	No 	guarantees	 ha v e 	been	giv en 	 or	 receiv ed. 	No	
pro visions	ha v e 	been	made	f or	doubtful 	de bts 	in	respect	 of 	 the	 amounts	 owed	b y 	 rela ted	par ties .
Remuneration of key management personnel
T he	rem unera tion 	of 	the 	e x ecutiv e 	director s , 	w ho	 are	 the	 k e y 	 management 	 per sonnel 	 of 	 the	 group , 	is	set 	out 	below	
in	ag greg a te 	f or	eac h	of 	the	ca tegories	specified	in	 IAS24	R ela ted 	P ar ty 	Disc losures . 	 Fur ther 	inf or ma tion	 about	the	
rem unera tion 	of 	individual	director s 	is	pro vided 	in	the 	Director s’ 	R em unera tion 	R epor t 	 on 	 pages	 54	to	 75.
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 1,251 1,852
Post-employment benefits 180 255
Share Based Payments (35) 498
1,396 2,605
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			131
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
38. Financial instruments
T he 	Group’ s 	principal	financial 	instr uments 	comprise	bank	 loans , 	bank	o v erdrafts , 	 finance 	 leases , 	cash	and	shor t-ter m 	
deposits .	 T he 	main	 pur pose 	of 	the	financial	instr uments 	is	to 	pro vide 	finance	f or 	 the	 Group’ s 	opera tions . 	 T he 	Group 	
has	v arious 	other	financial	assets	and	liabilities 	suc h 	as	 trade	 receiv ab les 	and	 trade	pa y ab les , 	w hic h 	arise	directl y 	from 	
opera tions .	During	the	y ear 	 the	Group	has 	financed	its	b usiness	through	 an	o v erdraft 	facility	 and	re v olving	committed	facility	
ar ranged 	with	the	R o y al 	Bank	of 	Scotland	plc	and	HSBC	Bank	plc .
T he 	Group	uses 	financial	instr uments 	to	manage 	its	bank	 bor rowings: 	 this 	 is 	 done 	 b y 	 the	use	 of 	 f oreign 	e x c hange 	 ra te 	 s waps . 	
T he 	Group	does	not 	 hold	or	issue	deriv a tiv e	financial	 instr uments 	 f or	financial	trading	 pur poses	 b ut	 deriv a tiv es	 tha t	qualify	
f or	 hedge	accounting	are	accounted	f or 	as	 trading 	instr uments .	Deriv a tiv e 	 financial	instr uments	 are	initiall y 	recognised	a t	
fair	v alue 	 a t 	the 	 contract	da te 	and	contin ue 	to	 be 	sta ted 	 a t 	fair 	v alue 	a t 	the 	balance	sheet 	da te 	 with	 g ains 	 and 	 losses	on	
re v alua tion 	being	recognised	immedia tel y 	to 	the	income	sta tement. 	
T he 	main 	risks	arising	from	the	Group’ s	financial 	instr uments	 are	interest	ra te 	 risk,	liquidity 	risk	and	f oreign 	 cur renc y	 risk.	T he	
polic y	f or	managing	 these	risks	is	re viewed 	and	agreed	 with	 the	Board.
Interest rate risk
T he 	Group	holds	 v ariab le 	ra te 	financial 	de bt. 	Fix ed 	interest 	 ra tes 	are	 f or 	periods	 of 	 up	to	 three 	 months 	 a t 	 a	time . 	 T he 	 interest	
ra te	margins	paid	b y 	the	Group 	on	financial 	de bt 	are 	disc losed 	in 	note 	27.	 T he 	Group 	assesses	 its	bor rowing 	requirements	
monitor s 	and	 interest	ra tes	and	assess	the	risks 	through	sensitivity 	anal ysis .
If 	interest 	ra tes 	had	been	1%	higher/lower 	 during	the	 y ear 	the	 impact	to 	profit 	bef ore 	tax 	would	ha v e 	 been 	 an	increase/
decrease 	of 	 £344,000	(2012:	 increase/decrease	of 	£152,000).	 T he 	impact	 on	shareholder s’ 	 equity 	 would	ha v e 	 been 	 a	
decrease/increase 	of 	254,000	(2012:	decrease/increase 	of 	 £109,000).
Liquidity risk
T he 	 Group 	has	an 	agreed	committed 	facility	of 	£90	 million 	with	 the	 R o y al 	Bank	of 	Scotland	 and 	 HSBC 	 Bank 	 plc . 	 T he 	facility	
ma tures	in 	September 	2016.	T here 	is	also	an	uncommitted	facility 	a v ailab le 	 of 	 £5	million,	w hic h 	is	re viewed	 on	a	rolling	basis .	
T he 	 Group 	manages	liquidity	risk	 b y 	maintaining 	adequa te 	reser v es 	 and 	 banking 	 facilities	and	b y 	 contin uousl y 	 monitoring	
f orecast	and	actual	cash	flows . 	At 	 31	December	2013	the	Group	 had	net	 cash	of 	£4,179,000	 (2012: 	 £3,343,000),	w hic h 	is	
after 	deducting	an	amount	dra wn 	down	ag ainst 	the 	facility	of 	 £59,000,000 	(2012:	£14,000,000).	 T he 	undra wn 	committed	
facility	was	theref ore 	£27,800,000	 (2012:	£27,800,000).
Externally imposed capital requirement:
Under 	 the 	 ter ms	 of 	 the 	 Group’ s	 banking	 co v enants 	 the	 Group	 m ust	 meet 	 cer tain 	 criteria	 based	 on	 interest	 and	 dividend	 co v er	
and	net	de bt 	to	 EBITD A. 	T here 	ha v e 	been	no	 breac hes 	 of 	 the	banking	 co v enants 	in 	the 	cur rent 	or 	prior	y ear .
Foreign currency risk: 
T he 	Group 	has 	 24	o v er seas 	opera tions 	(branc hes 	and	subsidiaries)	w hic h 	trade 	in 	Europe , 	 the	 USA,	 the	F ar 	 East, 	 the	Middle 	
East,	South	America,	A ustralasia 	 and 	Africa. 	T he 	ster ling 	 v alue 	of 	the	 net	 monetar y 	 assets	 held	in 	the 	principal	 f oreign 	
cur rencies	held	b y 	the	group	are 	as 	f ollows:
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Net monetary assets/liabilities
US Dollars (5,989) (355)
Euros (2,137) (1,480)
Brazilian Real (674) (777)
132			Chime 	 Communications	plc T he	Group	does	on	occasion	agree	to 	bill	c lients 	in	a	 cur renc y 	 other 	 than	the 	local	cur renc y; 	 it	also 	mak es 	 some	purc hases	
o v er seas 	w here 	 the	supplier	bills	in	their	local 	cur renc y . 	 T he 	Group	 does	not	 hedge	 the	transla tion 	 e xposure 	on	 the	
f ees	due . 	T he 	 Group	con v er ts 	an y 	 f ees 	receiv ed 	in 	f oreign 	 cur renc y 	 on 	 receipt	on	funds . 	In 	some	 instances 	 w here 	it	is	
viewed	appropria te , 	the	proceeds	from	the	c lient	are	k ept	in 	cur renc y 	 so	as	 to	minimise 	the	 f oreign	e x c hange 	 e xposure	
on	 the 	transaction 	if 	 there 	 are 	third	par ty	costs 	to	be	paid	 out	of 	the 	funds	 in	 tha t 	cur renc y .	In 	this	 instance 	 the	Group	
uses	 shor t-ter m 	f oreign	e x c hange 	s waps	to	manage	 the	Group’ s	bor rowings .	 T he 	fair 	v alue 	of 	the 	s waps	entered 	into	a t	
31	 December	2013	is	estima ted 	as	a	liability 	of 	£35,000	(2012:	asset 	of 	£9,000).	T here 	was 	one	s wap 	 open 	 o v er 	 the	y ear 	
end.	T his	amount 	 is	based 	on	the	mar k et	v alues 	of 	 equiv alent	 instr uments	a t 	the	 balance	sheet 	da te .T he	 f ollowing 	tab le	
demonstra tes 	 the 	 sensitivity 	 to	 reasonab l y	 possib le	 c hanges 	 in	 the 	 US	 Dollar	 and	 Euro	 e x c hange 	 ra tes , 	 with	 all	 other	 v ariab les	
held	constant, 	of 	the	group’ s	equity:
T he 	 f ollowing	tab le 	demonstra tes	the 	sensitivity	to	reasonab l y	possib le 	c hanges 	in 	the 	US	 Dollar , 	Euro	 and 	 the	Brazilian	R eal 	
e x c hange	ra tes ,	with	all	other	v ariab les	held	constant,	of 	the 	group’ s	equity:
2013 2012
Strengthening/(weakening) of sterling +10% -10% +10% -10%
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
US Dollar (554) 609 25 (27)
Euro (313) 345 55 (60)
Brazilian Real 14 (15) 77 226
Capital risk management:
T he 	Group	manages 	 its	capital 	 to	ensure	tha t 	entities	 in	 the	Group 	will	 be	ab le 	 to	 contin ue 	 as	going	 concer ns 	 w hile 	
maximising 	 the 	retur n	to	stak eholder s 	through 	the	 optimisa tion	 of 	 the	 de bt 	and	equity	balance .	 T he	capital	 str ucture	of 	the 	
Group	consists 	of 	de bt, 	cash 	and	cash	equiv alents 	 and 	 equity 	 a ttrib utab le 	 to	equity	 holder s 	 of 	 the	 parent, 	 comprising 	 issued	
capital,	reser v es 	and 	retained 	ear nings 	as	disc losed	the	 Consolida ted	 Sta tement	of 	 Changes	in	 Equity .
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 18,267 17,892 
Bank loans (58,023) (13,529)
Finance leases (20) (127)
Loan notes outstanding (809) (58)
Net assets attributable to equity holders of the parent (181,519) (155,244)
(222,104) (151,066)
Market price risk:
T he 	Group’ s 	 e xposure 	to 	mar k et 	price	risk 	comprises	 interest 	 ra te 	risk	and	cur renc y 	ra te 	risk. 	T he 	 Group	 regular l y 	monitor s 	
these	e xposures 	w hic h,	setting	aside	the	inter rela tionships 	 between 	 suc h	ra tes 	and	 their	wider	 impact	on	the 	econom y , 	 are	
not	considered	to	ha v e	a	significant	impact	on	the	Group .	
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities:
F air	v alue 	 is 	 the 	amount	a t 	w hic h	a	financial 	instr ument 	can	 be 	 e x c hanged 	in	 an	ar m’ s	length	transaction 	between	inf or med 	
and 	willing	par ties , 	other	than	a	f orced	or 	liquida tion	sale .
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			133
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
38. Financial instruments (continued)
T he 	f ollowing 	tab le 	pro vides 	a	comparison	of 	the	book	v alues 	and	the	 fair	 v alue	 of 	 the	 Group’ s 	financial	liabilities 	and	assets	
as	 a t 	 31	December :
2013 2012
Book Value
£’000
Fair Value
£’000
Book Value
£’000
Fair Value
£’000
Financial liabilities
Bank loans (58,023) (58,023) (13,529) (13,529)
Obligations under finance leases (20) (20) (127) (127)
Trade and other payables (91,019) (91,019) (70,714) (70,714)
Deferred consideration – cash or shares (17,333) (17,333) (15,950) (15,950)
Deemed remuneration – cash or shares (6,551) (6,551) (14,679) (14,679)
(172,946) (172,946) (114,999) (114,999)
Financial assets
Other investments 514 514 354 354 
Other financial assets 100 100 300 300 
Cash and bank balances 18,267 18,267 17,892 17,892 
Trade and other receivables 80,259 80,259 59,403 59,403 
99,140 99,140 77,949 77,949 
Other investments: T he 	Other 	 In v estments 	represent	equity	securities	acquired 	b y	 the	Group 	and	are	 c lassified 	as	 A v ailab le 	
f or	 Sale . 	T he 	fair	v alues 	of 	the	listed	securities	(£514,000)	 are	deriv ed 	 from	quoted	mar k et 	prices 	and	thus 	are	 considered	to	
be	a 	Le v el	1	fair	 v alue	measurement.
T here	were	no 	transf er s 	between	fair 	v alue	le v els 	during	 2013 	 or	 2012.
T he 	tab le 	below	summarises 	the	ma turity 	profile	of 	the	Group’ s 	financial	liabilities	 as	a t 	31	 December 	 2013 	 and 	 2012	based	
on	contractual 	 undiscounted 	pa yments .
Maturity profile
Within 
1 year
£’000
1-2 
years
£’000
2-3 
years
£’000
3-4 
years
£’000
4-5 
years
£’000
5+ 
years
£’000
Total
£’000
2013
Bank loans – – (58,023) – – – (58,023)
Obligations under finance leases (20) – – – – – (20)
Trade and other payables (91,019) – – – – – (91,019)
Deferred consideration (5,725) (2,165) (2,866) (3,035) (3,542) – (17,333)
Deemed remuneration (1,671) (4,069) (811) – – – (6,551)
Maturity profile
Within 
1 year
£’000
1-2 
years
£’000
2-3 
years
£’000
3-4 
years
£’000
4-5 
years
£’000
5+ 
years
£’000
Total
£’000
2012
Bank loans –  –  –  (13,529) –  –  (13,529)
Obligations under finance leases (107) (20) –  –  –  –  (127)
Trade and other payables (70,714) –  –  –  –  –  (70,714)
Deferred consideration (3,966) (3,465) (75) (2,773) (1,212) (4,459) (15,950)
Deemed remuneration (13,815) (864) –  –  –  –  (14,679)
134			Chime 	 Communications	plc Credit risk
T he	Group	consider s	its	maxim um 	e xposure	to	credit	 risk	to	 be	as	f ollows:
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Trade receivables 57,475 47,841 
Deferred consideration receivable 282 1,307 
T he 	Group	trades	onl y	with	 recognised,	creditwor th y 	 third	par ties .	Customer s	w ho	 wish	to	 trade	 on	credit	ter ms 	are	generall y	
subject	to	credit 	v erifica tion 	procedures . 	In	addition,	receiv ab le 	 balances	are	 monitored	on	 an	ongoing	basis 	with	the 	result	
tha t 	the	Group’ s 	e xposure 	to	bad 	de bts 	has	not	been 	 significant.
Concentra tions	 of 	credit	risk 	with	respect	to	trade 	 receiv ab les 	are	 limited	due	 to	the 	Group’ s	 customer	base	being	large 
and 	unrela ted.
W ith 	respect	to	 credit	 risk	arising	from	other	financial	 assets	of 	 the	Group , 	 w hic h 	 comprises 	 cash	and	cash	equiv alents , 	 the	
Group’ s	e xposure 	to 	credit	risk	arises	from	default 	 of 	the	 counter par ty , 	 with	 a	maxim um 	amount	of 	e xposure 	 equal	to	the	
car r ying 	 amount	of 	these	instr uments .
Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position
T he 	f ollowing 	tab le 	pro vides 	an	anal ysis 	of 	financial 	 instr uments 	 tha t 	 are	 measured	subsequent	to 	initial 	recognition	a t 	fair	
v alue , 	 grouped 	into	Le v els 	 1	to	3	based	 on	the	degree	to 	w hic h 	the	 fair	v alue 	 is 	 obser v ab le:
•	 Le v el 	 1	fair	v alue 	measurements	 are 	those	deriv ed 	from	quoted	 prices 	 (unadjusted) 	 in	 activ e 	 mar k ets 	 f or 	identical	assets 
or 	liabilities;
•	 Le v el 	 2	fair	v alue 	measurements	 are 	those	deriv ed 	from	inputs	 other 	 than	quoted	 prices	inc luded 	 within	Le v el 	 1	tha t 	 are	
obser v ab le 	f or 	the	asset	 or 	liability , 	either	directl y 	(i.e . 	as	 prices) 	 or	 indirectl y 	(i.e . 	 deriv ed 	from	 prices);	and
•	 Le v el 	 3	fair	v alue 	measurements	 are 	those	deriv ed 	from	v alua tion 	 tec hniques 	tha t 	 inc lude 	inputs	f or 	 the	 asset	or	liability 
tha t 	are	not	based	on	obser v ab le 	mar k et 	da ta 	(unobser v ab le 	 inputs).
Financial liabilities
Fair value
 2013
£’000
Fair value
2012
£’000
Fair value 
hierarchy
Valuation 
technique
Significant 
unobservable
input
Relationship of 
unobservable 
inputs to
fair value
Contingent 
consideration in a 
business combination 24,981 28,033 Level 3
Discounted
cash flow
Discount rate
of 10.6 per cent
The higher the
discount rate,
the lower the
fair value
39. Subsequent events
Subsequent 	to 	the	y ear 	end,	the 	Group	has	made	the 	f ollowing 	acquisition.
The Blaze Agency Pty Ltd (‘Blaze’)
On 	5 	Marc h	2014	the	Group	acquired	100%	of 	Blaz e , 	a	 compan y 	incor pora ted 	 in	 A ustralia, 	f or 	initial	 considera tion 	of 	
A UD$2,000,000 	(£1,073,000). 	Additional	considera tion	is	pa y ab le 	contingent	on	 the	results 	of 	the	 b usiness ,	 capped	a t	 the	
maxim um	of 	A UD$4,000,000 	(£2,146,000).
Subsequent	to	acquisition,	the	results 	of 	Blaz e 	will	 be	inc luded	within	the 	Group’ s	Spor t 	&	Enter tainment 	division.
Due 	to	the	pro ximity	of 	completion	of 	this 	transaction 	 to	 the	 issue	of 	 these	financial	sta tements	the 	inf or ma tion 	 required	to	
prepare	the	initial	accounting	f or 	the 	b usiness 	combina tions	are	 as	y et 	una v ailab le , 	theref ore 	we 	are	 unab le 	 to	pro vide 	the	
disc losure 	required 	under	IFRS	 a t 	this	time .
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			135
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Annual	Report	and	Accounts 	2011	136
Company Balance Sheet
Year ended 31 December 2013 Company number: 1983857
Notes
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Fixed assets
Investment in subsidiaries and associates 3 245,810 175,026 
Other financial assets 4 – 405
Fixed Assets 5 381 405 
246,191 175,836
Current assets
Cash 11,730 9,102
Debtors 6 30,648 40,258
Prepayments 433 798 
Short term investments 7 58 58
42,869 50,216
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 8 (10,569) (23,285)
Net current assets 32,300 26,931 
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year 9 (57,737) (13,281)
Provisions for liabilities 10 (8,536) (18,369)
Net assets 212,218 171,117
Equity
Share capital 11 24,529 20,522 
Share premium account 11 122,940 81,943 
Share-based payment reserve 11 7,640 8,324 
Merger reserve 11 3,780 3,780 
Capital reduction reserve 11 – 32,385 
ESOP reserve 11 (1,718) (2,554)
Non distributable reserve 11 5,373 –
Retained earnings 11 49,674 26,717 
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 212,218 171,117 
T he 	financial 	sta tements 	were	appro v ed 	b y 	the	board	of 	Director s 	 and	authorised	f or 	 issue	 on 	 26	Marc h 	2014.	 T he y 	were 	
signed	on 	its	behalf 	b y:
Mark Smith
Director
136			Chime 	 Communications	plc 1. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
T he	 separa te	 financial 	 sta tements	 of 	 the	 Compan y	 are	 dra wn	
up	 in	accordance 	with	S434	to	S436	of 	the	Companies	Act	
2006	and 	United	 Kingdom 	 generall y 	accepted 	accounting	
principles	(‘UK	GAAP’).	T he 	prepara tion 	of 	financial	
sta tements	in	conf or mity	with	generall y 	 accepted 	 accounting	
principles	requires	management 	to	mak e	estima tes	 and 	
assumptions	tha t 	af f ect 	the 	repor ted 	amounts	of 	assets	and	
liabilities 	and 	disc losure 	of 	contingent	assets 	and 	liabilities	
a t	the	da te	of 	the	 financial	sta tements	and	the	repor ted 	
amounts	of 	re v en ue	and	e xpenses 	during	the	 repor ting 	
period.	 Actual	results	could 	 dif f er 	from	those	estima tes . 	
T he 	estima tes 	and	under l ying 	assumptions 	are 	 re viewed 	
on 	an 	 ongoing 	 basis . 	R e visions 	to 	accounting 	estima tes 	are	
recognised	in	 the 	period 	in	w hic h 	the	estima te	is	re vised	
if 	the	re vision 	af f ects 	onl y 	tha t 	period 	or 	 in	the	period	of 	
the	re vision 	and 	 future	periods 	if 	the	re vision 	af f ects 	 both	
cur rent 	and 	future	 periods .
T he 	financial	sta tements 	are 	prepared	on	a 	going	 concer n 	
basis	as 	e xplained 	in	the	Director s’ 	R epor t.
T he 	par ticular	accounting	policies	adopted	are 
described 	 below . 	
Accounting	policies	ha v e 	been	applied 	consistentl y 
between 	y ear s . 	In 	 2012	the	trade 	and	assets	of 	the	 central	
ser vices 	function	 were	transf er red 	into 	the	Compan y 	 from 
a 	subsidiar y .
Cash flow
T he 	Compan y 	has	tak en 	ad v antage 	of 	the 	e x emption 	
contained 	in	FRS	1	‘Cash	F low 	Sta tements’ 	and	has	 not	
produced 	a	cash	flow	sta tement.
Financial instruments
T he 	Compan y 	has	tak en 	ad v antage 	of 	the 	e x emption 	
contained 	in	FRS	29	‘Financial 	Instr uments: 	Disc losures’ 	and	
has 	not	produced	an y 	disc losures 	required	b y 	tha t 	standard,	
as	 full	disc losures 	are	a v ailab le 	in	Chime 	 Comm unica tions 	
plc	Ann ual 	R epor t 	f or 	the	y ear 	ended 	31 	 December 	 2013.
Related parties
T he 	 Compan y	 has	tak en	ad v antage	 of 	the	 e x emption 	
contained	 in	 FRS	 8	‘R ela ted 	 P ar ty 	 Disc losures’ 	and	has	not 	
repor ted	transactions	with 	f ellow 	 Group	 under takings .
Accounting convention
T he 	 financial 	 sta tements 	 are	prepared	 under 	 the	historical	
cost	 con v ention.
Investments
In 	 the	 Compan y’ s 	 accounts , 	in v estments 	in 	subsidiar y 	and	
associa te 	under takings	 are	sta ted	 a t 	cost 	less 	pro vision	f or 	
an y	 impair ment 	in 	v alue .
Deferred consideration and deemed remuneration
W hen 	 ear nouts 	are 	to	 be	settled	 in	 cash 	 or	 shares 	 with	a	
fix ed	 monetar y 	 v alue , 	 the	fair 	v alue 	of 	the 	considera tion 	
is	obtained	 b y 	discounting	to 	present 	v alue 	the 	amounts	
e xpected	to 	be	pa y ab le 	in 	the 	future . 	 If 	the	 ear nouts 	are	
link ed 	 to	 fur ther 	 emplo yment 	 then	 the y 	 are 	 c lassed 	 as	
deemed	rem unera tion	b ut 	if 	 there 	 is 	 no	link	 to	emplo yment	
then	 the y	 generall y	are	 c lassed	 as	def er red	 considera tion.
Financial instruments
Financial 	 assets	and	 financial 	 liabilities , 	in 	respect	of 	
financial	instr uments , 	 are	recognised	 on	the 	balance 	 sheet 	
w hen	the 	Compan y	becomes	a	 par ty 	to 	 the	 contractual	
pro visions	of 	the	 instr ument.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial 	 liabilities	and	 equity 	 instr uments	issued	b y	the	
Compan y 	are	 c lassified 	according	 to	 the	substance	of 	the 	
contractual	 ar rangements 	 entered	 into 	 and	the	 definitions	
of 	a	 financial 	 liability	and	an	equity	 instr ument. 	 An	equity 	
instr ument	 is 	 an y	contract	 tha t 	e vidences 	 a	residual 	 interest 	
in 	the	 assets	 of 	 the	Compan y 	 after	deducting	 all	of 	its	
liabilities	 and	inc ludes 	no	 ob lig a tion 	 to	 deliv er 	 cash	 or 
other 	financial	assets . 	Equity	instr uments 	 issued	b y 	the 	
Compan y 	are	 recorded	a t 	the 	proceeds	receiv ed, 	 net	of 	
direct	 issue	costs .
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing 	 bank 	 loans	and	o v erdrafts 	are	 recorded	a t 	
the	 proceeds	 receiv ed, 	 net	 of 	 direct	issues 	costs . 	Finance	
c harges , 	inc luding 	premiums	 pa y ab le 	 on 	 settlement 	 or 	
redemption	and	 direct 	 issue	 costs , 	 are	accounted	f or 	on	an	
accr uals 	basis 	in 	profit	or	 loss	 using	the 	ef f ectiv e 	interest	
method	 and	are	 added	to 	the	 car r ying 	 amount	 of 	the	
instr ument	 to	 the	e xtent 	 tha t 	tha t 	 are	not	 settled	 in	the	 period 	
in 	w hic h 	 the y 	 arise .
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Year ended 31 December 2013
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			137
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements 1. Accounting policies (continued)
Share-based payments
T he 	Group	opera tes 	a	n umber 	of 	equity	settled 	 share 	
based	compensa tion	plans	f or	the	emplo y ees 	of 	subsidiar y	
under takings , 	using	the	Compan y’ s 	equity	instr uments . 	T he 	
fair	v alue 	 of 	the	compensa tion 	giv en 	in	 respect	of 	these	
share-based	compensa tion	plans	is	being	trea ted 	as	 a	
receiv ab le	from	the	subsidiar y 	compan y .	
Dividends paid or received
Dividends	paid	and	receiv ed 	are	inc luded 	in	the 	financial	
sta tements	in	the	period	in	w hic h 	the	rela ted 	dividends	 are	
actuall y	 paid	or	receiv ed 	or , 	in	respect 	of 	the 	Compan y’ s 	
final	dividend 	 f or 	the 	 y ear , 	appro v ed 	b y 	shareholder s .
Foreign currencies 
T ransactions 	in	UK	companies	denomina ted 	in	cur rencies 	
other 	 than	pounds	ster ling 	are	recorded	a t 	the 	ra tes 	of 	
e x c hange 	 pre v ailing 	on	the 	da tes 	of 	the	 transactions . 	At	
eac h 	balance 	sheet	da te , 	monetar y 	assets	and	liabilities	tha t 	
are	 denomina ted 	in 	f oreign 	 cur rencies 	are	retransla ted 	a t 	the 	
ra tes	pre v ailing 	on 	the	balance	sheet 	da te . 	Gains 	and 	 losses 	
arising	on 	retransla tion 	are	inc luded 	in	net 	profit	or	loss	f or 	
the 	period.	Non-monetar y	items 	tha t	are	measured	in	ter ms 	
of 	historical 	cost	in	a	 f oreign 	cur renc y 	are 	not 	retransla ted.
Taxation
T he 	tax	e xpense 	represents 	the	sum	of 	the 	tax	cur rentl y 	
pa y ab le 	and	def er red 	 tax.
T he 	tax	cur rentl y	pa y ab le 	is	based	on	taxab le 	profit	f or	the	
y ear . 	 T axab le 	profit	dif f er s 	from	 net	profit	as	repor ted 	in 	 the	
income 	sta tement	because	it	e x c ludes	items 	of 	income	or	
e xpense	tha t 	 are	taxab le 	or	deductib le 	in	other	y ear s 	and	it	
fur ther	e x c ludes 	items	tha t 	are 	ne v er 	taxab le 	or	deductib le . 	
T he 	Group’ s 	liability 	f or 	cur rent 	tax 	is	calcula ted 	using	tax	
ra tes	 tha t	 ha v e 	 been	 enacted	 or 	 substantiv el y 	 enacted	 b y	 the	
balance	 sheet	da te .
Def er red 	tax 	is	the	tax	e xpected 	to	be	pa y ab le 	or	
reco v erab le 	on 	 dif f erences 	between 	the	car r ying 	amounts	
of 	assets	and	liabilities 	in	the	financial 	sta tements 	and 	 the 	
cor responding	tax 	bases	used	in	the 	computa tion 	of 	taxab le 	
profit, 	and	is	accounted 	f or 	using 	 the	balance	sheet 	liability	
method.	Def er red 	tax 	liabilities	are	generall y 	recognised	
f or 	all	 taxab le 	temporar y 	dif f erences 	and	def er red 	tax	
assets 	are	 recognised 	 to	the	e xtent	tha t 	it	 is 	 probab le	 tha t 	
taxab le 	profits	will 	be 	a v ailab le 	ag ainst 	w hic h 	deductib le 	
temporar y	dif f erences 	 can	be 	utilised.	Suc h 	assets	and	
liabilities 	are	 not 	recognised 	if 	the 	temporar y 	dif f erence 	
arises 	from	goodwill	or	from	 the	initial	recognition	(other	 than	
in 	a	b usiness 	combina tion) 	of 	other	assets	and	liabilities	
in 	a	transaction 	tha t 	af f ects 	neither	the	tax	profit 	nor 	the 	
accounting	profit.
Def er red	tax 	liabilities	 are	recognised	 f or 	taxab le 	temporar y	
dif f erences 	arising	 on	in v estments 	in 	subsidiaries	 and 	
associa tes , 	 and 	 interests 	 in	 joint	 v entures , 	e x cept 	w here 	
the	Group 	is	ab le 	 to	 control	the 	re v er sal 	 of 	 the	 temporar y 	
dif f erence 	and	it	 is 	 probab le	tha t	 the	temporar y 	 dif f erence	
will	not	 re v er se	in 	the	 f oreseeab le 	future .
T he	car r ying 	amount	 of 	def er red 	tax	 assets	 is 	 re viewed 	 a t 	
eac h 	 balance	sheet	 da te 	 and 	 reduced 	 to	 the	e xtent 	 tha t	 it	
is 	 no 	 longer	 probab le 	tha t	 suf ficient 	taxab le 	profits	will	be	
a v ailab le	to	 allow 	 all	or 	par t 	of 	 the	asset 	to 	be	reco v ered.
Def er red	tax 	is	calcula ted 	 a t 	 the	tax 	ra tes 	tha t 	 are	e xpected 	
to	appl y 	in	 the	 period	w hen 	 the	liability	 is 	 settled	or	 the	
asset	is	realised. 	Def er red	 tax	 is 	 c harged	 or	 credited 	 in 	 the	
income 	 sta tement, 	e x cept 	 w hen 	it	rela tes 	to 	items	 c harged 	or	
credited 	 directl y 	 to	 equity , 	 in	 w hic h 	 case 	 the	 def er red 	tax	 is 	
also	dealt	with 	in 	equity .
Property, plant and equipment
Proper ty , 	plant	and	equipment	are 	sta ted 	a t 	cost	 net	 of 	
deprecia tion	and	an y 	 pro vision 	 f or 	impair ment. 	Deprecia tion 	
is 	 pro vided 	 in	equal 	instalments	to 	write	 of f 	the	 cost	 less	
residual 	 v alue 	o v er 	 the	 estima ted 	 useful 	 economic	 liv es 	of 	
asset	type	 as	f ollows:
Shor t-ter m 	leasehold 	impro v ements	 5 	 y ear s
Motor 	 v ehic les	 6 	 y ear s
Fixtures , 	fittings	 and 	 equipment	 4 	 y ear s
Software	 4 	 y ear s
Assets 	held	 under	finance	leases	 are	 deprecia ted 	o v er 	 their	
e xpected 	 useful	liv es 	on	 the	 same	basis	 as	owned	 assets	or , 	
w here	shor ter , 	the	 ter m 	of 	the 	rele v ant 	lease .
T he 	g ain 	 or	 loss	arising	 on	the 	disposal 	of 	an	asset 	is	
deter mined 	as	the 	dif f erence 	 between 	 the	 sales	proceeds	
and 	 the	car r ying 	amount	of 	the 	asset 	and	is	recognised	in	
the	income	sta tement.
Provisions
Pro visions 	are 	recognised	 w hen 	 the	 Compan y 	 has	a	present	
ob lig a tion 	 as	a	result 	of 	a	 past	e v ent 	 and 	 it	is	probab le 	tha t 	
the	Compan y 	will 	be	required 	to 	settle	 tha t 	ob lig a tion, 	 and	
are	discounted	 to	 present	v alue 	 w here 	the	 ef f ect 	is	ma terial.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
138			Chime 	 Communications	plc Vacant property provisions
Pro visions	f or	proper ty	represent	amounts	set	 aside	in 	
respect 	of 	proper ty	leases	 w hic h	are 	 onerous 	and	the	
una v oidab le 	 costs	of 	restoring	leasehold	proper ties 	to 	the 	
condition	specified	in 	the	lease	a t	the 	end	of 	the 	contractual	
ter m.	T he 	quantifica tion 	of 	eac h	of 	the	pro visions	is 	
deter mined 	based	on	 the	Director s 	best 	estima te	and	is	
dependent	on 	the	Compan y’ s 	ability	to 	e xit 	the 	leases	ear l y 	
or	to	 sub let 	the 	 proper ties . 	 In	general,	proper ty 	 costs 	are	
e xpected	to 	be	incur red	o v er 	periods 	f or	w hic h	individual	
proper ties	remain	v acant	or ,	w here	occupied,	to 	the	
ter mina tion 	of 	 the 	leases 	in	question.
Going concern
T he 	Group’ s 	 b usiness	activities ,	w hic h 	inc lude	those	 of 	
the	Compan y , 	together	with	the 	factor s 	lik el y 	to	af f ect 	its	
future	de v elopment,	perf or mance 	and	position	are	 set	 out	
in	T he	Chief 	Ex ecutiv e’ s	Sta tement	on 	pages	6	to	7.	 T he	
financial	position 	of 	the	 Group , 	its	cash 	flows	and	bor rowing 	
facilities 	 are	described	in	the 	F air 	R e view 	of 	the 	Business	
on	 pages 	21	to	23. 	In	addition,	note	38	of 	the	consolida ted 	
financial	sta tements 	 inc lude	the	Group’ s 	objectiv es , 	policies	
and 	processes	f or 	managing	its	capital;	its	financial	
risk 	 management	objectiv es	and	details	of 	 its	financial	
instr uments; 	and 	its	e xposure 	to	credit	risk	 and 	liquidity	risk.
As	highlighted	in	note	38	 to	the	consolida ted 	financial	
sta tements ,	the	Group	meets 	its	 da y 	 to	da y 	wor king 	capital	
requirements 	 through 	 an	 uncommitted	 o v erdraft 	 facility	 and 	 a 	
committed 	facility	w hic h	 ma tures	in	September 	 2016.	T hese 	
facilities	are	subject	to	banking 	co v enants 	as	disc losed	in 	
note	38	to	 the 	consolida ted 	financial 	sta tements .
In 	preparing	f orecasts	the 	director s	ha v e 	tak en	 into 	account	
the	f ollowing 	k e y 	factor s:
•	 T he 	ra te 	of 	growth	of 	the 	UK 	and	global	econom y 	 on	the	
Group’ s	b usiness 	during 	the	economic	reco v er y;
•	 K e y 	c lient	account	renewals;
•	 Planned 	acquisitions	 and 	disposals;
•	 Anticipa ted 	pa yments 	under	def er red 	and	contingent	
considera tion;
•	 T he 	 le v el 	of 	committed 	and 	 v ariab le	costs;	and
•	 Cur rent 	 new 	b usiness 	targets 	compared	to	le v els 	
ac hie v ed 	in	pre vious 	y ear s .
T he 	Group’ s 	 f orecasts 	and	projections , 	taking	account	of 	
reasonab l y 	possib le 	c hanges 	in	trading	perf or mance , 	 show	
tha t 	the	Group	should	be 	ab le 	to	opera te 	within	the	le v el 	 of 	
its	cur rent 	facility	and	banking 	co v enants . 	
T he	 Director s	ha v e 	a	reasonab le 	e xpecta tion 	 tha t	the	
Compan y 	and	the 	Group 	ha v e	 adequa te	 resources	to 	
contin ue	in 	opera tional 	e xistence	f or	 the	 f oreseeab le	 future . 	
T hus	 the y 	 contin ue 	 to	 adopt 	 the	 going	concer n 	basis	of 	
accounting	 in	 preparing	the 	ann ual	financial	sta tements .
More 	detail	 on	the	 Group’ s	 cash 	 position	and	facilities 	a t	
31	December	 2013,	as	 well 	 as 	 ma turities 	 of 	the	 financial	
liabilities ,	 can	be	f ound 	in 	note	 38	to	 the	 consolida ted	
financial	sta tements .	 T he	principal	 risks	and	uncer tainties 	
faced	 b y	the	 Group	 are	inc luded	 in	the 	Director s’ 	 R epor t. 	
Details	 of 	 potential 	 contingent 	 liabilities	 and 	 potential 
cash 	outflows	 in	 rela tion	 to	 these	liabilities 	can	be	f ound 
in 	note	 12.
Profit of parent company
As	per mitted	b y 	 Section	 408	of 	the 	Companies	Act	2006,	the	
income	sta tement 	of 	the 	parent	 compan y	is	not 	presented	
as	 par t 	of 	these	 accounts .	T he 	parent	 compan y’ s 	loss	 f or 	
the	 financial	y ear 	amounted	 to	 £2, 160,000 	 (2012:	loss	 of 	
£6,925,000).
2. Equity dividends
T he	equity	dividends 	paid	b y 	the	 Compan y 	are 	disc losed 	in	
note	12	 of 	 the	 consolida ted 	 financial	sta tements .
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			139
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
3. Investments
Investments 
in and loans 
to associated 
undertakings
£’000
Equity
interest in 
subsidiaries
£’000
Other 
investments
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2012 216 177,560 250 178,026 
Additions 4,554 7,283 100 11,937 
Disposals - (25,573) - (25,573)
Adjustments to prior year acquisitions – (2,378) – (2,378)
Additions re deemed remuneration – 11,264 – 11,264 
Transfers in – 3,813 – 3,813 
Transfers out – (1,122) – (1,122)
Share based payment – disposal of subsidiary – (897) – (897)
Reduction in carrying value (44) – – (44)
Balance at 31 December 2012 4,726 169,950 350 175,026 
Additions – 186,331 - 186,331
Disposals (454) (118,748) - (119,202)
Adjustments to prior year acquisitions – 2,515 - 2,515
Additions redeemed remuneration – 6,689 - 6,689
Transfers in – 405 - 405
Transfers out – – - –
Share based payment – disposal of subsidiary – (5,344) - (5,344)
Reduction in carrying value – (610) - (610)
Balance at 31 December 2013 4,272 241,188 350 245,810
4. Other financial assets
Amounts	shown	rela te 	to	the 	purc hase	of 	an	option	w here b y	 on 	 e x ercise	the 	Compan y	would	 acquire	Lord	 Coe’ s 	93% 	
interest	in	Complete	Leisure	Group	Limited.	T his 	option	 was	e x ercised	 on	30	J an uar y 	2013	and	fur ther 	 inf or ma tion 	is	noted 
in 	the	subsequent 	e v ents	note	16. 	
140			Chime 	 Communications	plc 5. Tangible fixed assets
Short term 
leasehold 
improvements
£’000
Motor 
vehicles
£’000
Software
£’000
Fixtures, 
fittings & 
equipment
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
Brought forward at 1 January 2013 274 15 55 1,271 1,615
Additions – – – 237 237
Disposals – – – (4) (4)
Transfers out – – – (428) (428)
Carried forward at 31 December 2013 274 15 55 1,076 1,420
Depreciation
Brought forward at 1 January 2013 245 9 55 901 1,210
Charge for the year 19 2 – 129 150
Disposals – – – (1) (1)
Transfers out – – – (320) (320)
Carried forward at 31 December 2013 264 11 55 709 1,039
Net Book Amount at 1 January 2013 29 6 – 370 405 
Net Book Amount at 31 December 2013 10 4 – 367 381
6. Debtors
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Amounts owed by group undertakings 24,870 32,301 
Deferred consideration receivable – due in one year 195 1,195 
Other debtors 5,025 2,394 
Deferred Tax Asset 458 504 
Corporation Tax Receivable – 3,814 
Other Debtors – due after one year 100 50 
30,648 40,258 
Amounts 	owed	b y 	 group 	under takings 	are	unsecured,	repa y ab le 	on	demand	 and 	 interest-free , 	with 	the 	f ollowing 	e x ceptions:
•	 a 	funding	loan	to	an	o v er seas 	subsidiar y 	amounting	 to	 £3,804,000 	 (2012:	£3,770,000)	 a t 	 31 	 December	2013	w hic h 	a ttracts 	
interest 	a t 	a	ra te 	of 	7.5%.
•	 a 	funding	loan	to	a	subsidiar y 	amounting 	to 	£14,921,000	(2012: 	£15,327,000)	a t 	31	 December 	 2013 	 w hic h 	 a ttracts 	interest	
a t	a	ra te 	of 	LIBOR	 plus	3.5%.
 
7. Short-term investments
T he	loan	note	cash 	deposit	of 	£58,000	(2012:	£58,000)	 rela tes	 to	a	 cash	deposit	 held	 a t	 R o y al 	 Bank 	 of 	 Scotland	 plc .	 T he	
deposit	is	f or	pa yment	of 	the	 loan	note	 creditor s	 of 	£58,000	 (2012:	 58,000).	Interest	accr uing 	on	the 	deposit 	is	pa y ab le 	to	the	
holder s	of 	the	loan	notes 	less	an y 	costs .
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			141
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
8. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Bank overdraft – –
Amounts owed to group undertakings – 17,940 
Loan notes 809 58 
Current taxation – –
Other creditors 6,999 2,174
Accruals and deferred income 2,761 3,113 
10,569 23,285
9. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Bank borrowings 57,737 13,281 
57,737 13,281 
R o y al 	 Bank 	 of 	 Scotland 	 plc 	 holds 	 de bentures 	 o v er 	 the 	 assets 	 of 	 the 	 Compan y 	 and 	 its 	 subsidiaries 	 in 	 respect 	 of 	 the 	 bank 	 loans .
 
10. Provisions for liabilities
Deferred 
consideration
£’000
Deemed 
remuneration
£’000
Onerous 
leases
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2013 1,977 14,298 2,094 18,369
Transfer from other group company – – – –
Charge to profit and loss account 20 – – 20
Payments made (943) (12,210) (1,158) (14,311)
Arising on acquisitions 1,420 2,689 – 4,109
Adjustment to prior year acquisitions (22) 371 – 349
On acquisition of associates – – – –
Foreign Exchange – – – –
At 31 December 2013 2,452 5,148 936 8,536
T he 	v acant 	 proper ty 	pro vision 	a t 	 31	December 	2013	 rela tes 	 to	 two	b uildings: 	one	near	 Hea throw 	 and	one	in 	Central	London.		
Pro visions	f or	proper ty 	represent	 amounts	set	 aside	in	respect	 of 	 proper ty	leases 	w hic h 	are	 onerous	 and	 the	 una v oidab le	
costs 	of 	restoring	leasehold	proper ties	to 	the	condition	specified	 in	 the	lease 	a t 	the	 end	of 	the	 contractual	 ter m.	 T he	
quantifica tion 	of 	eac h 	 of 	the 	pro visions 	has	been	deter mined 	 based	 on 	 management’ s 	 best	estima te 	and	is	dependent 	
on	the	Compan y’ s 	ability	to 	e xit 	the 	leases	ear l y 	or	to	sub let 	the	 proper ties . 	In	 general,	proper ty 	 costs	are 	e xpected 	 to	be 	
incur red	o v er 	 periods	f or 	w hic h 	individual 	proper ties 	remain 	v acant 	or , 	 w here 	occupied,	 to	 the	 ter mina tion 	of 	 the	leases	in	
question. 	During	the	y ear 	the	Compan y 	made	pro visions 	 of 	 £nil	(2012: 	£1,931,000).	
142			Chime 	 Communications	plc 11. Statements of movements on share capital, share premium and reserves
Share 
capital
£’000
Share 
premium 
account
£’000
Share-
based 
payment 
reserve
£’000
Merger 
reserve
£’000
Capital 
reduction 
reserve
£’000
Non 
distrib-
utable 
reserve
£’000
ESOP 
reserve
£’000
Retained 
earnings
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2012 20,237 79,987 7,288 3,780 32,385 – (4,191) 41,059
Issue of shares 285 1,956 - - - - - -
Retained loss for the year - - - - - - - (6,925)
Dividends payable - - - - - - - (5,350)
Capital contribution given relating
to share based payments
- - 1,933 - - - - -
Disposal of subsidiaries - - (897) - - - - -
Disposal on exercise of options - - - - - - 2,144 (2,067)
Purchase of own equity shares held in treasury - - - - - - (507) -
Balance at 31 December 2012 20,522 81,943 8,324 3,780 32,385 – (2,554) 26,717 
Issue of shares 4,007 40,997 - - - - - -
Retained loss for the year - - - - - - - (2,160)
Dividends payable - - - - - - - (6,268)
Capital contribution given relating
to share based payments
- - (128) - - - - -
Disposal of subsidiaries - - (556) - - 5,373 - -
Disposal on exercise of options - - - - - - (164) (1,000)
Release of capital reduction reserve - - - - (32,385) - - 32,385
Purchase of own equity shares held in treasury - - - - - - 1,000 -
Balance at 31 December 2013 24,529 122,940 7,640 3,780 – 5,373 (1,718) 49,674
Details 	of 	 share	capital	allotted	during	the	y ear 	are	disc losed 	in 	note	 31	of 	the 	consolida ted 	financial	sta tements .
Costs 	of 	 £1,735,000	(2012	–	£18,863)	rela ting 	to	 the 	issue	 of 	shares	 ha v e 	been	inc luded 	in 	share	 premium.
T he	ESOP	reser v e	represents	the	cost 	of 	shares 	 in	 Chime	Comm unica tions	Plc	 purc hased	in	 the	 mar k et 	and	 held	b y 
T he 	Chime	Comm unica tions 	Emplo y ee 	T r ust 	 to	sa tisfy 	options	under	 the	Group’ s 	share	 option 	 sc hemes , 	def er red 	shares 
and 	the	Co-In v estment	Plan.	Fur ther	details	are 	 disc losed 	in 	note	 36	of 	the 	Group 	accounts .
Details 	of 	the	release	 of 	capital	reduction	reser v e 	 are	 disc losed 	 in	 note	32	 of 	 the	 consolida ted 	 financial	sta tements .
Non 	distrib utab le 	reser v es 	rela te 	to	the 	transf er 	of 	 in v estments 	 to	 other 	 group 	 companies	within	 the	 Group . 	T hese 	will	become 	
a v ailab le 	f or 	distrib ution 	 upon 	disposal 	of 	the 	in v estments .
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			143
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
12. Contingent liabilities and commitments
Deferred and contingent consideration
At 	 31	December	2013	there	was 	a	maxim um 	financial 	commitment	 of 	 £1,767,000	 undiscounted	(2012:	£2,633,000)	in 	
respect 	of 	unpro vided 	def er red 	contingent	considera tion 	pa y ab le 	in	 respect	 of 	 acquisitions 	 of 	subsidiar y 	under takings . 	T he 	
calcula tion	of 	the	def er red	considera tion 	liability 	requires	 estima tes 	 to	 be 	 made	reg arding	the	 f orecast	 future	perf or mance	
of 	 these	b usinesses	 f or	the	ear nout 	period.	T he	 unpro vided 	 def er red	 contingent 	 considera tion 	 would 	 become	pa y ab le	 o v er	
periods 	from	2014	to 	2019	and	would 	 be 	pa y ab le 	in	 cash/loan 	notes 	or	 cash/loan	 notes	and	new 	shares .
Deemed remuneration
In 	addition 	to	the	deemed	rem unera tion	pro vision	as	disc losed	in 	note	 10	of 	£5,148,000	cur rentl y 	 pro vided	 a t 	 31	December	
2013	 £9,091,000	 (2012:	£12,377,000)	will 	 be 	e xpensed 	in 	the 	rele v ant 	subsidiar y 	compan y , 	 o v er 	 the	 period	of 	the 	ser vice 	
based	on 	the 	 cur rent 	fair	v alue . 	T he	in v estment 	 in	the	parent	 compan y 	will	 increase	 b y 	the 	same	 amount.	In 	addition	an	
amount	of 	£31,565,000 	(2012:	£9,709,000)	(undiscounted)	 would 	 be 	 e xpensed 	 in	 the	 rele v ant 	 subsidiar y 	 compan y ,	under 	
the	 ear n-out 	agreement	should	maxim um 	perf or mance 	 targets 	 be	met,	 and 	 the	in v estment 	 in	 the	parent 	compan y 	 would	
increase .	T he 	calcula tion 	of 	the	 deemed 	rem unera tion 	liability	 requires 	 estima tes 	to	 be	made	reg arding 	the 	f orecast 	 future	
perf or mance 	of 	 these	b usinesses 	f or 	the	period	of 	ser vice . 	 T he 	unpro vided 	deemed	rem unera tion 	would	become	 pa y ab le 	
o v er 	 periods	from	2014	to	 2019 	and	would	be 	pa y ab le 	in 	cash/loan 	notes	 or	 cash/loan	 notes	and	new 	shares .
13. Share-based payments
T he 	Compan y 	cur rentl y 	uses	a	n umber 	of 	equity 	settled	share	 plans	 to	grant 	options	and	shares	 to	 the	 Director s	and	
emplo y ees	of 	its	 subsidiar y	under takings . 		As	a t	31	 December	2013,	 the	 Compan y 	 had	880,212	 ordinar y 	 share	options	
outstanding	(2012:	 1,016,631).
In 	2012	the 	 Director s 	reconsidered	the 	wa y 	in	w hic h 	contrib utions 	 to	 the	share	 based	 pa yments 	 in	 subsidiaries	 were 	 trea ted. 	
T heref ore 	it	is	being	trea ted 	as	a	receiv ab le 	from	the	subsidiar y 	compan y . 	During	 the	 y ear 	ended 	31	 December 	 2013,	the	
capital	contrib ution 	arising 	from	 share-based	pa yments 	 was	 £nil 	 (2012:	 £nil).
Full 	 details	of 	share-based	pa yments , 	share	option	sc hemes 	and	share	 plans	 are	disc losed 	in 	note	 36	to 	the	 Consolida ted 	
Financial	Sta tements 	of 	Chime 	Comm unica tion 	Plc .
14. Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
T he 	Compan y’ s 	principal	trading	subsidiaries	and 	associa ted 	 under takings , 	w hic h 	 are	all	 incor pora ted 	in 	Grea t	 Britain	
(e x cept 	w here 	noted)	are	listed	in	 note 	18	 of 	the 	consolida ted 	financial	sta tements .
144			Chime 	 Communications	plc 15. Related parties
During	the	y ear ,	the 	Compan y 	receiv ed 	a	dividend 	 from	the 	Agenc y 	of 	Someone	Limited 	£240,000	 (2012: 	 £80,000)	and 	
Nak ed	Ey e 	R esearc h 	Limited 	£nil	(2012:£6,374)	w hic h 	 are	 associa tes .
2013
Sale of 
services
£’000
Purchase 
of services
£’000
Amounts 
owed by 
related 
parties
£’000
Amounts 
owed to 
related 
parties
£’000
Associates
Bell Pottinger Private Limited 1,023 – – 127
Bell Pottinger Public Affairs Limited 25 – – 3
Bell Pottinger Public Relations Limited 50 – – 24
Bell Pottinger Sans Frontiers 34 – – 8
Pelham Bell Pottinger 53 – – 18
Bell Pottinger Middle-East – – – –
The Brand Marketing Team Limited 14 – – 13
Colour TV Limited 30 – – 5
Naked Eye Research Limited 1 – – 1
Rare Corporate Design Limited 6 74 – 4
The Agency of Someone Limited – – – –
X&Y Communications Limited 41 – – –
Icon Display South Africa (ply) Ltd 1 – – –
Bell Pottinger LLP – 88 62 –
2012
Sale of 
services
£’000
Purchase 
of services
£’000
Amounts 
owed by 
related 
parties
£’000
Amounts 
owed to 
related 
parties
£’000
Associates
Bell Pottinger Private Limited 518 – – –
Bell Pottinger Public Affairs Limited 20 – 24 –
Bell Pottinger Public Relations Limited 44 22 269 –
Bell Pottinger Sans Frontiers 25 – 9 –
Pelham Bell Pottinger 43 46 – –
Bell Pottinger Middle-East 5 – – –
The Brand Marketing Team Limited 3 – 2 –
Colour TV Limited 12 – 12 –
Naked Eye Research Limited 3 – – –
Rare Corporate Design Limited 12 30 – –
The Agency of Someone Limited – 16 – 6
X&Y Communications Limited 10 – – –
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			145
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
16. Subsequent events
Subsequent	to 	the	y ear 	end,	the	Group 	has	made	the 	f ollowing 	 acquisition.
The Blaze Agency Pty Ltd (‘Blaze’)
On 	5 	 Marc h	2014	the	Group	acquired	100%	of 	Blaz e , 	a 	compan y	 incor pora ted 	in	 A ustralia,	 f or	initial	considera tion	 of 	
A UD$2,000,000 	(£1,073,000). 	Additional 	 considera tion 	is	pa y ab le 	contingent	 on 	 the	 results	of 	the 	b usiness , 	 capped	a t 	the	
maxim um	of 	A UD$4,000,000 	(£2,146,000).
Subsequent 	to	 acquisition, 	the 	results 	of 	Blaz e 	will	be	inc luded	within	 the	Group’ s 	Spor t 	&	 Enter tainment 	division.
146			Chime 	 Communications	plc Information for Shareholders
Financial Calendar Thursday 15 May 2014
Wednesday 21 May 2014
Friday 23 May 2014
Friday 13 June 2014
Wednesday 27 August 2014
Wednesday 17 September 2014
Friday 19 September 2014
Friday 10 October 2014
November 2014
Ann ual 	 General 	 Meeting 	 12	noon
Ex-Dividend 	da te	2013	Final	Dividend
R ecord 	 da te 	 2013 	 Final 	 Dividend
P a yment 	of 	2013	Final	Dividend
Announcement 	of 	2014	Interim	 R esults
Ex-Dividend	Da te 	2014	Interim	Dividend
R ecord 	 Da te 	2014	Interim	 Dividend
P a yment 	of 	2014	Interim	 Dividend
Interim 	Management	Sta tement
Share Price
Share price at 31 December 2013 337.0p
High during the year 18 December 2013 345.5p
Low during the year 2 January 2013 230.0p
Balance Analysis  
Summary
 Number of  Number of Balance as at 
 holdings holdings  31 December  
Range individuals corporate bodies 2013 % of ISC
1 - 1,000 239 58 108,052 0.11
1,0001 – 10,000 199 133 1,175,019 1.20
10,001 – 100,000 57 82 4,864,613 4.96
100,001 - 1,000,000 13 59 24,880,235 25.36
1,000,001 - 10,000,000 1 14 49,758,201 50.71
10,000,001 - to highest 0 1 17,330,000 17.66
Total 509 347 98,116,120 100
 
Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2013			147
Overview and Highlights
Stategy and Outlook
Performance
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements 148			Chime 	 Communications	plc
Professional Advisers Financial Advisers 
EPL 	Ad visor y 	 LLP	 
18 	Hy de	Gardens	 
Eastbour ne 
East	 Susse x 
BN21	 4PT
Stockbrokers 
Numis 	Securities	 Limited 
10 	P a ter noster 	 Square 
London 
EC4M 	7L T
Auditors 
Deloitte	 LLP 
2 	New	 Street	Square 
London 
EC4A 	3BZ
Solicitors 
Slaughter	&	Ma y 
One 	 Bunhill	R ow 
London 	 EC1Y	8YY
Bankers 
R o y al 	Bank 	of 	Scotland	plc 
280	Bishopsg a te 
London	 EC2M 	 4RB
HSBC	Bank 	PL C 
London	 Cor pora te	 Banking	Centre 
Fir st 	floor , 	60	Queen	V ictoria	 Street 
London 	 EC4N 	 4TR
Registrars 
Computer share 	In v estor 	 Ser vices 	plc 
R egistrar’ s	Depar tment 
PO 	Bo x	82 
T he	P a vilions 
Bridgwa ter	R oad 
Bristol 
BS13	8AE
Registered Office 
Southside 
6th	floor 
105	V ictoria 	 Street 
London 
SW1E 	 6Q T
R egistered 	in	England 	No:	 1983857
Contact Details Chime Communications plc 
Southside 
6th	 floor 
105	V ictoria	Street 
London 
SW1E 	6Q T
www .c himeplc .com
Lord 	Da vies 	–	Chair man 
lord.da vies@c himeplc .com
Christopher	 Sa tter thwaite	– 
Chief 	Ex ecutiv e 
csa tter thwaite@c himeplc .com
Mar k 	Smith	–	Chief 	Opera ting	Of ficer 
and 	 Finance	Director 
msmith@c himeplc .com
R ober t 	 Da vison 	–	 Group 	 Secretar y 
rda vison@c himeplc .com Designed and produced by  
www.rarecorporate.co.uk
Typeset by   Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chime Communications plc
Southside, 6th Floor
105 Victoria Street, Victoria
London SW1E 6QT
Tel: +44 (0)20 7096 5888
enquiries@chimeplc.com
www.chimeplc.com
