 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
ANNUAL REPORT 2006
ENERGY/
PETROCHEMICALS
DATA CENTRES TELECOMS SERVICE
GOVERNMENT/
HEALTHCARE
RETAIL FINANCIAL 
SERVICES
TRANSPORT EXPANDING THE CORE
Expanding service capabilities
Widening geographic reach in high growth economies
Complementing core business through acquisitions
From UPS to critical power infrastructure services
TOTAL SOLUTION APPROACH
Leading technology
Outstanding technical and service support
Strong presence in key territories
Building sustainable competitive advantage
  ANNUAL REPORT 2006 1
CHLORIDE’S INNOVATIVE
POWER PROTECTION 
SOLUTIONS AND SERVICES
SECURE BUSINESS CONTINUITY
FOR CRITICAL SYSTEMS AND
PROCESSES WORLDWIDE.
2 CHLORIDE AT A GLANCE
4 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
6 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
20 FINANCIAL REVIEW
24 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
26 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
27 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
32 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 
34 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
REPORT
41 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’
RESPONSIBILITIES
42 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 
TO THE MEMBERS OF CHLORIDE 
GROUP PLC (GROUP)
43 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
43 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF 
RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE
44 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
45 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
46 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (GROUP)
75 FIVE YEAR SUMMARY
76 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE 
MEMBERS OF CHLORIDE GROUP PLC (COMPANY)
77 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
78 COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT
79 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (COMP ANY)
85 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION,
SECRETARY AND ADVISERS
CONTENTS 2 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
CHLORIDE AT A GLANCE
PROTECTING CRITICAL SYSTEMS IN GROWING MARKET SECTORS
HIGHLIGHTS
All figures stated under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) with 
restated comparatives
* Sales/profit/earnings per share from continuing operations before restructuring
costs and intangible acquired amortisation (see note 11 to the financial statements)
** Adjusted operating profit as a percentage of sales from continuing operations
*** Adjusted operating cash flow equals cash generated by operations pre restructuring
costs of £2.7 million and exceptional pension contribution of £1.0 million
2006 2005 Change
Sales (£million)* 179.2 151.7 +18%
Adjusted operating profit 
(£million)* 17.5 11.3 +55%
Adjusted profit before tax 
(£million)* 15.6 10.1 +55%
Profit before tax (£million) 15.5 6.9 +125%
Adjusted earnings per share (p)* 4.77 3.19 +50%
Basic earnings per share (p) 4.73 2.01 +135%
Dividend (p) 2.25 1.85 +22%
ENERGY/
PETROCHEMICALS
DATA CENTRES TELECOMS SERVICE
GOVERNMENT/
HEALTHCARE
RETAIL FINANCIAL 
SERVICES
TRANSPORT
l Strategic actions accelerate growth in revenue and deliver
a 55% increase in adjusted profit before tax
l Double digit organic growth in both product and service
sales, demonstrating the continuing success of our total
solutions approach
l Strong performance from Harath increases service
revenue which now accounts for 33% of sales
l Operating margin** up 2.4 points to 9.8% (2005: 7.4%) 
from cost savings and increase in service revenue
l Adjusted operating cash flow*** strong at £20.1 million –
115% of adjusted operating profit 
l Y ear-end order book circa £8 million ahead of last year ANNUAL REPORT 2006 3
SALES IN MARKET SECTORS
Service 33%
T elecoms 11%
Manufacturing and construction 10%
Energy and petrochemicals 10%
Other 10%
Government/healthcare 9%
Financial services 7%
Retail 6%
Transport 4%
SALES IN INTERNATIONAL MARKETS
Europe68%
Americas 16%
Asia Pacific 10%
Africa/Middle East6%
11.3
2005
17.5
55%
2006
ADJUSTED OPERATING 
PROFIT £MILLION
3.19
2005
4.77
50%
2006
EARNINGS PER SHARE
ADJUSTED BASIS PENCE
1.85
2005
2.25
22%
2006
DIVIDEND PER SHARE
PENCE
151.7
2005
179.2
18%
2006
TOT AL SALES
£MILLION
106.1
2005
119.5
13%
2006
PRODUCT SALES
£MILLION
45.6
2005
59.7
31%
2006
SERVICE REVENUE
£MILLION 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
OVERVIEW
This year we accelerated the rate of progress through our strategy
of focusing on our core business, driving cost savings and developing
our presence in sectors where our total solutions approach has
competitive advantage. Sales growth has been excellent, and we
have delivered a further increase in our operating margin supported
by strong cash generation.
Our strategic investments have strengthened the Group. Harath,
acquired in April 2005, enhanced Chloride’s position as the industry-
leading integrated power protection service organisation in the UK.
The investment in DB Power Electronics enabled us to access the
fast-growing Indian market and provide comprehensive technical 
and service support for our international customers in that
important territory.
In addition, at the beginning of the year we completed both the exit
from our non-core loss-making Telecom Power Systems businesses
and the restructuring in Germany.These actions sharpened the focus
on our core business, resulting in a significant increase in profits.
KEY FINANCIALS
Group sales increased by 18% to £179.2 million (2005: £151.7 million).
Adjusted operating profit was up 55% to £17.5 million (2005:
£11.3 million), emphasising the strong operational gearing of the
business. Harath met our expectations, contributing to the growth 
in service revenue. As expected, adjusted operating profit was
significantly improved by the strong sales growth, together with the
improvements in efficiencies and restructuring activities undertaken
at the beginning of the year.
Despite the buoyant trading environment, the power protection
market remains highly price competitive. Increasing the operating
margin was therefore a key management objective for the year 
and I am pleased to confirm that, as a result of better product
margins and cost savings, we closed the year with an operating
margin of 9.8% – 2.4 points better than last year.
Adjusted profit before tax increased by 55% to £15.6 million 
(2005: £10.1 million), generating adjusted earnings per share 
of 4.77p (2005: 3.19p) – an increase of 50%. Basic earnings 
per share was 4.73p (2005: 2.01p).
Adjusted operating cash inflow was strong at £20.1 million 
(2005: £12.0 million), representing 115% of adjusted operating 
profit. Net debt for the year was held at close to last year’s level 
at £16.9 million (2005: £16.3 million), after the acquisition of Harath,
the investment in DB Power Electronics, the benefit of the Chloride
Telecom Systems disposal proceeds, the payment of £2.7 million 
in restructuring costs and an exceptional contribution of £1 million 
to the UK pension scheme.
UK PENSION SCHEME
We made a further contribution of £2.5 million to the pension
scheme after the year-end, with the intention of eliminating the
deficit. Measures have also been introduced to increase employee
contributions and reduce certain benefits, so as to maintain the
annual Company contribution rate at current levels for the
foreseeable future.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
NORMAN BROADHURST ANNUAL REPORT 2006 5
DIVIDEND
In light of our continued confidence in the Company’s future
prospects, the Board is proposing a final dividend of 1.25p per share
(2005: 1.0p).Together with the interim dividend of 1.0p, this gives 
a full year dividend of 2.25p – an increase of 22% on the prior year
whilst increasing dividend cover. Subject to shareholders’ approval 
at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 
1 August 2006 to shareholders on the register on 30 June 2006.
BOARD
Angus Fraser has decided to retire as a non-executive director 
at this year’s AGM on 25 July. Angus joined the Board in 1984 
and became a non-executive in 1988. Over these 22 years he 
has been a great asset to the Board, and I am grateful to him for 
the contribution he has made, both as a Board member over this
period, and over the last five years as Senior Independent Director
and Chairman of the Audit Committee. My fellow directors and 
I will miss his wise counsel, his depth of knowledge and his support.
We welcome Eric Tracey and Gary Bullard as non-executive
directors. Gary’s strong background in the IT and telecom industries,
and Eric’s extensive experience in finance and accounting, coupled
with his recent background as Finance Director of Amey plc and
Wembley plc will strengthen the Board as we continue to drive 
the Company’s strategic development.
OUTLOOK
Secure power is an essential requirement of business continuity 
for our customers.We address market sectors where our total
power protection solutions give us real and sustainable competitive
advantage. Our sharpened strategic focus and the actions taken 
to extend our solutions capability and geographic reach have
enabled us to maximise our advantage as the pace of growth 
has increased in many of our market sectors.
The order book at the year end was significantly ahead of the prior
year, underpinning our prospects for the coming year.The sustained
improvement in many of our markets and our focus on high-growth
sectors give us confidence for the future.We continue to improve
and develop our existing international operations and to seek
opportunities to expand our business by acquisition.
NORMAN BROADHURST 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
IMPROVING MARKETS
The world market for UPS products grew ahead of industry
expectations in 2005.This growth was fuelled by increasing demand
for secure power in data and call centres, with customers investing in
additional facilities as the existing capacity approached full utilisation.
The re-emergence of this business sector had a positive impact for
Chloride, driving significant increases in orders and sales, particularly
in the financial services and telecoms/IT sectors.
Following the strong resurgence of the world UPS market in 2005,
our markets are expected to continue to grow, as businesses and
government organisations become increasingly dependent on secure
power for business continuity.Trends such as increased automation 
of processes and expansion in IT and telecoms will continue to put
pressure on inadequate power supply networks, driving demand for
secure power for critical applications.The industry’s leading market
research company, Frost & Sullivan, in its World UPS Markets report
for 2006 estimated that the market increased by 11.9% in 2005,
and is forecasting that after the thrust to increase data and call centre
capacity in the last two years, market growth is predicted to return
to a more normal rate of circa 6.4% a year by 2007*.
ORDERS AND ORDER BOOK
We achieved growth in product orders of 16%, well ahead of the
market, with particular successes in financial services, telecoms/IT,
energy and petrochemicals, transport, government and healthcare.
Orders for large systems were also ahead of the market, driven by
the surge in demand in data centre applications for financial services
and IT/telecoms. Product orders were secured well ahead of sales,
resulting in an increase in the order book at the year end of
approximately £8.0 million.
SALES
T otal sales We made good progress this year, with total sales
growth of 18%, from a combination of organic growth, the
acquisition of the UK critical power services company Harath, and
the strategic alliance with DB Power Electronics, India. Sales in our
Industrial Systems business were affected by timing issues, with some
major projects being deferred into the new year. As a result, our
order book is now well ahead of last year, forming an excellent 
base for accelerated progress in the current financial year.
Product sales Product sales were up 13% on last year – the 
best rate of growth we have seen since 2001.This has largely 
been achieved through our success in medium and high power 
UPS systems where our capabilities provide competitive advantage.
These systems are ideally suited to the high power demands of 
data centres such as the prestigious project we undertook for the
German Stock Exchange operator, Deutsche Börse AG, to protect
its data centre in Frankfurt, Germany.
*SOURCE: FROST & SULLIVAN WORLD UPS MARKETS REPORT 2006
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
KEITH HODGKINSON
MARKET GROWTH FORECAST
SOURCE:  FROST & SULLIVAN WORLD UPS MARKETS REPORT 2006
6.0%
+3.2% 
2003
+9.0% 
2004
+11.9% 
2005
+7.1% 
2006
+6.4% 
2007
+5.9% 
2008
+6.0% 
2009 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 7
Service sales Service again achieved strong growth – up 31%,
including Harath. Service now accounts for 33% of turnover.
The integration of Harath with our existing UK service operation
now enables us to offer comprehensive service packages for 
a broader range of critical power protection equipment, including
enhanced remote monitoring, to our UK customers.This total
service solution approach offers significant opportunities for
progressive growth as we roll it out in other countries.
Market sectors Sales have been increased in many of our market
sectors with excellent growth in data centre applications for financial
services, telecoms and IT. During the year we completed projects 
for numerous international banks including Macquarie Bank,Australia,
HSBC, and Barclays; for telecoms operators such as Orange, France
Telecom and Vodafone; and IT companies such as IBM and Unisys.
Sales have also increased in other market segments, notably:
l transport – where our expertise in challenging transport
applications, plus unrivalled service capability were key factors 
in winning the contract for London Heathrow Terminal 5;
l energy – among many assignments in this sector our Industrial
Systems business gained a new customer in Spain, gasNatural; and
l healthcare – where the success of previous projects resulted 
in the award of a further contract with the Meyer Children’s
Hospital in Florence, Italy and several hospital projects in the UK.
In the leisure sector, we completed an important project with Sky
television in Italy, while continuing to build up expertise in stadium
applications. Our applications expertise in data centres, transport
infrastructure and stadia will ensure that we are well placed to bid
for contracts for the London Olympics.
International sales Sales growth was in excess of the market 
in all our geographic territories.
In Europe, our largest market, sales were up by 16% with good
performance in the UK,Turkey, Spain and Eastern Europe. Sales in the
Americas were up by 22%, with very strong growth in Brazil and above
market growth in North America. Asia Pacific recovered strongly in
the second half and closed the year 19% ahead, benefiting from good
growth in Australia, China and India. Our relationship with DB Power
Electronics in India has been important in penetrating this new high
growth market for Chloride products.Africa and the Middle East, our
smallest market, also performed well – up 37% – and we have good
prospects in the Middle East, especially for oil, gas and energy applications.
SKY TELEVISION
SKY Italia, which began operations in 2003, relies on Chloride’s high
performance 90-net UPS systems for secure power in all aspects of its
production process.With three million subscribers, an audience of ten million
and 31,000 hours of programming, secure power is vital for continuity of
SKY’s broadcasting output and advertising revenue. SKY Italia’s 160 audio 
and pay-per-view channels are protected by our total solution, including 
24-hour remote monitoring through LIFE.net, which gives significant added
value to SKY.
2005
Europe Americas Asia Pacific Africa/Middle East
+16%
+22%
+19%
+37%
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006
0.0
2006
INTERNATIONAL SALES GROWTH 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
Operating profit and margins Adjusted operating profit was
increased by £6.2 million to £17.5 million, an increase of 55% on 
a sales increase of 18%, demonstrating the robust nature of our
business model.
Although market conditions were much improved there was
continuing pressure on both product and service prices. Despite
this, the actions taken to reduce direct costs, improve operational
efficiency and secure better pricing through our total solutions
approach resulted in improved margins for both products and
services.This, with continued tight management of overhead 
costs, secured a 2.4 point operating margin improvement 
to 9.8%.This is the fourth consecutive year of operating 
margin improvement.
BUILDING SUSTAINABLE COMPETITIVE
ADVANTAGE 
We have a well defined strategy to build sustainable competitive
advantage and accelerate growth by developing our position as a
tightly focused, market leading power protection solutions provider.
We seek to:
l continue to improve operational performance by:
• developing our total solutions business model
• expanding our service capabilities to grow service revenue
• expanding geographic coverage in high growth markets
l accelerate growth through:
• adding to our range of capabilities in critical power 
infrastructure services
• seeking opportunities to invest in new products 
and markets adjacent to the core business
We strive to be “best in class” in our chosen markets and territories
by continual investment in the improvement and expansion of our
capabilities and technology, and we are convinced that our total
solutions offering is a key factor in winning business with blue chip
customers throughout the world.
Expanding capabilities In April 2005 we acquired Harath 
to enhance our range of services in the UK. Harath has been
successfully integrated into our UK service business enabling us 
to expand our service solution capability to cover additional
electrical equipment in the critical power protection infrastructure.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
2002
5.5%
4.0%
2003
6.2%
2004
7.4%
2005
9.8%
2.4 
points
2006
CONSISTENT OPERATING MARGIN 
IMPROVEMENT ANNUAL REPORT 2006 9
Harath has a strong reputation and customers have responded
positively to our broader service proposition.This is particularly 
true of the financial services sector, where we won orders for
products and service covering the expanded range from financial
institutions including Barclays, Bank of America and Nationwide
Building Society.We are also growing our contract base with facilities
management companies in the UK as awareness of our extended
service capability builds.
Investing in technology We continue to invest in improving 
our technology and solutions. During the year we introduced new
versions of our 80-Net UPS system, together with a new 90-Net
high power system.These products, with their high energy efficiency,
small footprint and scalability to satisfy even the most demanding
power requirements, are ideally suited to data centre applications.
In Industrial Systems, the Apodys range has been redesigned 
to achieve manufacturing cost reductions and our US power
conditioning subsidiary, Oneac, has introduced enhancements 
to its range of products for the US market.
LIFE.net, our industry-leading remote monitoring software has been
upgraded to extend to generators, giving further scope for selling
our integrated critical power protection services. LIFE.net remains 
an important part of our total solution. Connections have risen 
by 12.5% this year demonstrating the importance our customers
place on having technical support around the clock.We have
opened further LIFE.net monitoring stations, all connected to the
master monitoring station in Italy, so that we now have monitoring
facilities serving customers in 22 countries, giving comprehensive
global coverage.
NATIONWIDE BUILDING SOCIETY
Chloride’s project with Nationwide Building Society is an early success for 
our strategic move to widen our critical power protection offering. Chloride
Harath was chosen to supply a complete generator/UPS system solution 
for Nationwide’s call centre.As the number one supplier of critical power
protection services in the UK, we were able to deliver a tailored solution
from consultation to final testing, together with an unsurpassed level of 
post-sale technical support through our UK service team.
INCREASING LIFE.NET CONNECTIONS
4,883
2003
5,681
2004
6,256
2005
7,032
12.5%
2006
GLOBAL LIFE.NET COVERAGE
Monitoring stations in:
Argentina,Australia,Austria, Brazil, Chile, China, Croatia, France, Germany,
India, Italy, Japan, Pakistan, Portugal, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Syria,
Thailand,T urkey, UK, USA 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
Widening presence in high growth markets In June 2005
we completed an investment in DB Power Electronics, the leading
Indian independent power protection company. Many of Chloride’s
customers are present in this fast growing market, and the ability to
offer our internationally-recognised UPS systems, combined with the
sales and service expertise and coverage of DB Power Electronics,
has already proved successful. As a result of this relationship,
Chloride UPS systems were selected by IBM India for their data
centres in four Indian cities, and we now have an excellent platform
to serve our customers and increase product sales in the dynamic
Indian market.
Following initial sales successes, we decided to establish a sales 
and service company in Poland, a market where modernisation 
of the infrastructure and demand for secure power is driving
growth.We are now adding technical and service resources 
to provide better support to our customers and develop our
service operations.
Consistent delivery of this strategy has enabled Chloride to
outperform in today’s recovering markets. Our success was
recognised during the year by the Frost & Sullivan Growth 
Strategy Leadership Award 2005, which was judged on the 
basis of factors including technological innovation and leadership;
strategic acquisitions; and reorganisation structured around 
growth strategy.
We intend to pursue this strategy to drive progress in selected
markets and build our capabilities as a total solution provider 
for critical power protection solutions.
PEOPLE
Once again our people have delivered excellent results,
demonstrating their talent and enthusiasm for developing Chloride’s
business.We give high priority to attracting and retaining the best
people and to giving them opportunities to extend their sales,
technical and business skills in ways that benefit the Company.
Employees with special potential receive accelerated training 
and development and broad international experience. As a global
company we actively encourage people to move around the
business, helping to exchange ideas and extend best practice 
across our operations in Europe, the USA and Asia Pacific.
We place great emphasis on training that promotes our total
solutions approach, notably through our technical training school 
in Bologna, so that our engineers remain at the forefront of the
industry and give our customers excellent pre- and post-sales 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT 2006 11
technical support. Our training concept will be developed further 
in the coming year, including the introduction of web-based training
tools for remote learning.We also encourage employees to
participate in industry bodies that set technical standards for 
the industry, including CEMEP , the European representative body 
for manufacturers of power electronics.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank our people for their
contribution to our success and for their continuing commitment 
to Chloride.
PROSPECTS
We have made excellent progress in increasing sales and profits,
while continuing to invest in improving our competitive position.
Our total solutions offering has enabled us to grow sales and build
margins in a price competitive environment.The focus on working
capital management again resulted in strong operating cash inflow.
Business continuity relies on secure power and this continues to
drive the demand for our power protection solutions.The improving
trend in many of our markets is borne out by our year-end order
book, which was significantly ahead of last year. We look to build 
on this sustained momentum by continuing our strategic focus 
on high-growth markets and sectors where our total solutions 
offer competitive advantage, and by actively seeking further
acquisition opportunities that complement this strategy.
KEITH HODGKINSON
GASNATURAL, SPAIN
Chloride’s international presence was a major factor this year in gaining 
an order from gasNatural, a multinational energy services company focusing
on the supply and distribution of natural gas in Latin America, Spain and 
Italy. Chloride Industrial Systems collaborated with Chloride Spain to 
win the power protection contract for a new electricity generating plant 
in Spain, which achieves high energy performance levels using natural gas 
combined cycles. Increased demand for secure power in call and data centres is driving
growth, particularly in the IT, telecoms and financial services sectors.
Our strategic alliance with the leading Indian independent power
protection company, DB Power Electronics, now allows us to provide
a total solution to our customers in India.The combination of our
internationally-recognised products, backed up by DB Power’s
outstanding technical expertise and nationwide service support,
was a deciding factor in 
the award of a contract by
IBM India to supply power 
protection for its data 
centres in four Indian cities.
12 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
FOR DATA CENTRES
  ANNUAL REPORT 200613
DATA CENTRES
INDIA
IT/TELECOMS
PROJECT................................................
COUNTRY............................................
SECTOR................................................. 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
FOR FINANCIAL SERVICES
Business continuity is paramount for Deutsche Börse AG, which
operates the German Stock Exchange in Frankfurt, and a further 
15 stock exchanges worldwide.The efficient management and
storage of data is fundamental to its activities, which include
processing securities and derivatives transactions, settlements, and 
the provision of market information. Chloride won the contract 
to provide the power protection solution for the Deutsche Börse
main computer 
centre in Frankfurt.
Chloride’s offering 
was differentiated 
by its technical and 
service capabilities,
and total solution,
including a 
comprehensive 
maintenance 
programme and 
LIFE.net remote 
monitoring. ANNUAL REPORT 2006 15
FRANKFURT STOCK EXCHANGE
GERMANY
FINANCIAL SERVICES
PROJECT.............
COUNTRY.........
SECTOR.............. 16 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
FOR HEALTHCARE
In 2005, Chloride was acknowledged by the independent research
company, Frost & Sullivan, as the market leader in medical UPS
solutions in the UK. Its expertise in healthcare applications has
resulted in new projects in the UK, including the New Romford 
and John Radcliffe Hospitals.This expertise extends throughout
Chloride’s international sales and service network.The Meyer
Paediatric Hospital in Florence 
is a centre of excellence 
for paediatric care in Italy,
and a longstanding customer 
of Chloride Italy.
The hospital, which 
is constructing a new 
wing for children’s 
surgery, chose 
Chloride for its 
innovative technology 
and excellent 
service support. ANNUAL REPORT 2006 17
MEYER PAEDIATRIC HOSPITAL
ITALY
HEALTHCARE
PROJECT.............
COUNTRY.........
SECTOR.............. 18 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
FOR TRANSPORT
Chloride is the preferred supplier for power protection at London
Heathrow’s Terminal 5. Due to be completed in 2008 at a cost of
£4.2 million,Terminal 5 is the largest construction project in Europe.
Chloride’s UPS systems will play a key role at Terminal 5, providing
secure power to critical safety applications in airside installations,
rail and underground links, the passenger transit system, and the
terminal building, as well as protecting 
the IT systems and data centre.
The unmatched level 
of technical and service 
support that Chloride 
is able to provide,
backed up by 24-hour 
LIFE.net remote 
monitoring was 
a key factor in 
winning the project. ANNUAL REPORT 2006 19
TERMINAL 5, HEATHROW AIRPORT
UNITED KINGDOM
TRANSPORT
PROJECT.............
COUNTRY.........
SECTOR.............. 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN 
Shareholder value has risen significantly ahead of the small cap 
index over the last year following on the strategic actions taken 
to accelerate sales and profits.
In 2005/06 the share price has almost doubled from 52p to c.100p.
The Company continues to believe it is well positioned to grow
total shareholder return (TSR) further in 2006/07 and beyond – the
strong fundamental drivers for growth – degrading power supplies
and increasingly critical application needs – continue to be strong.
The Board’s confidence is again reflected in the dividend, which the
Board recommends rises 22% to 2.25p
CASH FLOW/EBITDA 
Management remains committed to turning profits into cash to
enable reinvestment in the businesses. Cash flow from continuing
operating activities was again strong as a result of good credit
control, strong growth in service revenues, and streamlining 
the supply chain in the second half year to reduce inventories.
The strong cash conversion underpins the quality of the customer
base and the related earnings.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND
INVESTMENTS
Fixed asset capital expenditure in the year was considerably lower
than in previous years at c.£2.7 million.This was largely due to 
the investment in the Group data centre in Italy in the prior year.
Investment in the sales and service businesses in Germany and Italy
is now complete. 2007 will see completion of a roll out of the
system in the UK and Spain.
The Group continues its strategy to upgrade the strength and
security of operating systems to best practice levels and to 
improve the speed and quality of customer, supplier and internal
communications, by investing in IT infrastructure and enhancing 
the security aspects of the remote monitoring system LIFE.net.
Additionally, the strategy calls for updating and standardising business
software and processes.The objective of these upgrades has been
to enhance operational efficiency; and partly as a consequence 
of this investment we will be able to further integrate the Harath
business in the UK.
ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENT
On 15 April 2005, following the strategy to expand our core critical
power services into the area of servicing of diesel generator sets,
Chloride acquired 100% of the shares of Harath Engineering
Services Ltd for a cash consideration of £9.9 million. Post-acquisition
the business management and customer base of Harath have been
integrated with the Chloride UK sales and service business.
In May 2005 the Company purchased 12% of the share capital of 
DB Power Electronics Private Limited, a leading independent power
protection company in India for a consideration of c. £0.6 million,
which is shown at its fair value as an investment in the financial
statements.This investment has enabled sales in India to grow to 
in excess of £1 million during the year and provides access to the
high growth Indian market and in due course will provide a source
of well qualified electrical engineers.
FINANCIAL REVIEW
NEIL WARNER ANNUAL REPORT 2006 21
SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS
Due to the substantial increase in profits shareholders’ funds have
grown to £58.0 million.
ACCOUNTING POLICES AND PRESENT A TION
On 29 September 2005, the Group announced the restatement 
of its results in accord with IFRS as of April 2005.The key areas of
impact were employee share and option incentive schemes, pensions
and related deferred tax, goodwill impairment testing and foreign
exchange and interest rate hedging.The overall reduction for the
year ended 31 March 2005 was 4% on adjusted operating profit
from continuing operations and 6% of adjusted profit before tax 
on continuing operations. Adjusted EPS was reduced by 7%.
There was no material change in net assets.
The interim results in November 2005 were the first to be
published under IFRS and these included reconciliations of the
interim results and balance sheet for the prior year. All the figures
quoted for the year ended 31 March 2005 and 2006 in this year’s
annual report are therefore under IFRS.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIs)
The Company has consistently used KPIs to drive the performance
of the business relative to the market and measure progress against
objectives.The major KPIs, their definitions and measurements are:
l Order trends – absolute movement in the value of the orders
taken over the course of a reporting period
l Product revenue growth versus the market – % growth in 
value of product revenue recognised on continuing operations
during a reporting period compared to the same for the prior
reporting period
l Growth in critical power services – % growth in value of service
revenue recognised on continuing operations during a reporting
period compared to the same for the prior reporting period
l Return on sales – profit from continuing operations 
(adjusted for exceptional items) as a % of revenue recognised 
on continuing operations during a reporting period
l Cash conversion – operating cash flow (adjusted for exceptional
items) from continuing operations and a % of profit from
continuing operations (adjusted for exceptional items)
l Customer satisfaction – identified in a variety of ways including 
all the measures above and as required through specific feedback
from key customers
l Employee safety and development – the trend in numbers of
days work lost due to accidents or illness during each reporting
period compared to the same for the prior reporting period;
and performance appraisal of employees resulting in
development of training programmes for individual needs
l Environmental standards and compliance therewith –
measurement of milestone progress towards attainment 
and retention of ISO 14001
Each of the Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s review and 
this financial review uses these KPIs to describe progress within 
the business.
EBITDA/ADJUSTED CASH FLOW
8.2
11.9
2003*
10.1
10.3
2004*
12.1 12.2
2005
14.0
20.1
2006
EBITDA £MILLION CASH FLOW £MILLION
* STATED UNDER UK GAAP
1 Aug 04
1 Jun 04
1 Apr 04
1 Feb 04
1 Dec 03
1 Oct 03
1 Aug 03
1 Jun 03
1 Apr 03
TOT AL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
CHLORIDE FTSE SMALL CAP
FTSE Small Cap
Chloride
May
2003
Jul Sep Nov Jan Mar May
2004
Jul Sep Nov Jan Mar May
2005
Jul Sep Nov Jan Mar
2006 22 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE
WITH GUIDELINES FOR CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
The revised Combined Code seeks to align business objectives with
risk management such that the business can ensure that there is an
ongoing embedded process for managing and reporting on key risks.
Directors are responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal
control that provides reasonable but not absolute assurance that 
a company will not be hindered in achieving its business objectives
by circumstances that are not foreseen.There were no major risks
identified other than those typical in a competitive environment –
key areas identified for ongoing management attention are:
l Product and service revenue growth above market – sales 
and service strategies for customer satisfaction, staff training 
and development
l Acquisitions – delivery of acquisitions that meet the Group’s
strategic requirements for appropriate value and integration 
after full risk assessment of targets
l Outsourcing of supplies of components and products –
protection of the Company’s intellectual property; quality 
and security thereof
l Product and service development and market introduction –
prioritisation of development activity and effectiveness of the
money spent
l Employee safety – monitoring of working practices to ensure
high standards of health and safety and environmental compliance
The Company has in place actions to mitigate risks and uncertainties
to low levels of significance and these actions are monitored on 
a regular basis. Reporting against these identified risks enables the
Board to make the statement on pages 30 and 31. The Company’s
risk control procedures have been enhanced with the introduction 
of a Risk Committee comprising the senior managers of the Group’s
businesses which has further reinforced the embedded nature of 
the process.
TREASURY AND OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
Management of financial risk The major financial risks faced 
by the Group are liquidity risk, currency risk and interest rate risk.
The Board of Chloride Group PLC regularly reviews these risks and
approves written policies covering the use of financial instruments 
to manage risk and overall risk limits.
The Company continues to operate a central treasury management
service in accordance with the policies and procedures approved 
by the Board.This function operates to reduce risk and cost and 
no transactions are undertaken on a speculative basis.The trading 
of financial instruments within the Company is confined to 
central treasury.
Core facilities and net liquid funds The Company’s
management policy regarding liquidity risk is to ensure that it always
has sufficient committed facilities available to meet its foreseeable
needs. At 31 March 2006 the Company had committed term
facilities of £70.0 million of which £36.6 million remain undrawn.
All but £10.0 million of these facilities are on loan agreements 
that expire in a period of greater than one year.
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
50.5
2004
47.7
2005
58.0
2006
SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS
£MILLION
23.0
2002
23.0
+8.9
2003
45.0
–14.4
2004
45.0
–16.3
2005
70.0
–16.9
2006
CORE FACILITIES AND 
NET DEBT £MILLION
NET DEBT
CORE FACILITIES AVAILABLE
–8.2 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 23
At 31 March 2006, the Company had net debt of c.£16.9 million
representing on demand borrowings of £7.5 million, finance lease
obligations of £0.1 million and committed borrowings of £31.4 million
less cash and short-term deposits of £22.1 million.
In its principal overseas companies the Company has on-demand
overdraft and bill discounting facilities to provide local funding for
operating and working capital requirements. Drawings under these
facilities provide a partial hedge against assets held in local currencies.
The funding structures of our UK and overseas operations are
regularly reviewed with the objective of achieving the optimal 
post-tax financing cost.
The Company also has adequate foreign exchange contract and
engagement facilities for its day-to-day commercial and exposure
matching needs.
Of the £9.0 million of on-demand borrowings at 31 March 2006,
£4.3 million is guaranteed by Chloride Group PLC.The committed
term facilities are guaranteed by Chloride Group PLC and contain
common financial covenants regarding interest cover, a ceiling on 
net debt and minimum consolidated shareholders’ funds. It is Group
policy to manage the consolidated balance sheet so as to operate 
at all times well within covenanted restrictions.
Currency risk The Company’s management policy re foreign
currency exposure requires subsidiaries to hedge transactional
currency exposures against the currency in which their results 
are measured. Net exchange exposures continue to be hedged 
at transactional level using the forward foreign exchange market.
Apart from optimising expenses and interest on local borrowings,
the Group does not believe, as an internationally based business,
that it is appropriate to hedge other aspects of its profit and loss
account translation exposure.
Net assets are held in a number of currencies and translated at
year-end rates.This is explained more fully in the accounting policy.
The resulting exposures are managed where practicable by matching
local currency assets with local currency borrowings.
Non-sterling currencies of primary importance to the Group moved 
as follows in the year:
Impact on
2006 2005 % 2006 2005 % profit from
Year end Year end Change Average Average Change ops £m
US$ 1.74 1.87 (7) 1.79 1.85 (3) +0.15
Euro 1.43 1.44 (1) 1.47 1.47 – +0.15
T otal +0.30
Interest rate risk The Company’s policy is to review the ratio 
of fixed rate debt to total outstanding debt on an ongoing basis 
to minimise the risk of major interest rate fluctuations over the
medium to long term, and if appropriate to hedge such exposure
through the use of interest rate swaps.
At 31 March 2006, the Company had a ratio of fixed-rate debt 
to total outstanding debt of approximately 2.8%. As of 31 March
2006 the Company had fixed £1.1 million of euro-denominated
borrowings at an average fixed rate of 2.3%.The remainder of
borrowings are at floating rate and predominantly EURIBOR based.
The weighted average remaining period as at 31 March 2006 for
which the above debt was fixed was 63 months.
Credit risk The Company controls credit risk by entering into
financial instruments only with highly credit rated authorised
counterparties. Counterparty positions are monitored on 
a regular basis to ensure that internally set limits are not broken 
(see note 18 to the financial statements).
Use and fair value of financial instruments At 31 March
2006, outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts existed with 
a gross book value totalling £23.7 million in respect of its actual
transaction exposures.The net fair value of these forward foreign
exchange contracts was £0.3 million at 31 March 2006. In addition
to these forward contracts the Group is exposed to foreign
exchange movements on its overseas borrowings.
At 31 March 2006 there were no outstanding interest swaps.
Tax rate The tax charge in 2006 represents an effective rate 
of 27.0% (2005: 27.0%) which is below the UK statutory rate 
of 30%.
NEIL WARNER 24 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
Responsible behaviour towards our stakeholders and the wider
community is fundamental to Chloride’s business.
PRODUCTS
Chloride’s total power protection solutions perform an essential 
role in providing secure power to a wide range of safety-critical
applications.These include emergency lighting in challenging
environments such as offshore drilling rigs and underground metro
tunnels; hospital equipment; passenger safety systems in airports;
control centres for the emergency services; signalling on railway
networks, and traffic management systems on major road networks.
Our solutions are also an essential part of many alternative energy
generation projects, such as wind farms and solar power installations.
BUSINESS OPERATIONS
In our business, we seek to ensure that we always act with integrity;
that we give priority to the health and safety of our employees and
those affected by our activities; and that we manage our activities 
so as to control our environmental impact.The Chloride Board
takes full responsibility for compliance with ethical, health and safety
and environmental standards and the Finance Director is responsible 
for reporting on these issues at Board level.
Ethical business policy Our employees are required to act with
integrity in all their business activities. Our statement of business
policies reinforces Chloride’s commitment to:
l maintaining fair and competitive employment practices, which
promote equal opportunities and develop the potential of 
our people
l providing a safe working environment and encouraging health
and safety awareness
l setting standards of environmental management, conservation 
of resources and waste management that meet or exceed 
the legal requirements in the countries where we operate
l being responsive to customer needs, and providing 
the highest standards of customer care
l opposing bribery and corrupt business practices 
l treating our suppliers fairly and building long-term, mutually
beneficial relationships with key suppliers
l supporting local communities through charities supported 
by our employees.
We encourage open and honest communication between employees
and management throughout the organisation. Employees may also
use our confidential “whistle blowing” procedure if they have serious
concerns about ethical or management issues that they feel unable
to discuss directly with local management.
Health and safety We recognise the primary importance 
of ensuring the health and safety of our employees. Chloride’s 
policy is to manage activities so that employees are not exposed 
to unnecessary and unacceptable risks to their health or safety,
and to meet or exceed the legal and regulatory health and safety
standards in the territories in which we operate.
Health and safety management is embedded in the organisation.
The General Manager in each business is accountable for health 
and safety issues within his business, and in the major sites, there 
is a designated senior manager with responsibility for health and
safety. Policies and procedures are documented, and in our principal
locations, employees’ representatives are involved in discussion of
health and safety issues through Works Councils or Health and
Safety Committees, on a regular basis.
Where health and safety issues are identified as significant risks, the
Risk Committee keeps under review the actions taken to address
the risk.These in turn are reported to the Audit Committee, along
with statistics on workplace accidents. In addition, the Company
employs independent consultants to inspect the manufacturing 
sites as considered necessary. Following inspections, the consultants
generate a report covering health and safety, fire and perils, business
interruption plans and environmental impact.These reports are
made available to the Audit Committee. During the last two years,
the sites at Lyon, Bologna, Chicago, Erlangen and Shanghai have been
inspected, and performance has been assessed by the consultants as
good in all categories. Independent risk assessment is also an integral
part of due diligence process on the acquisition of businesses.
Independent risk consultants carried out an assessment before the
acquisition of Harath Engineering Services, and its risk management
procedures were found to be of a high standard.
Installation, commissioning and after-sales technical service are key
elements of our solutions offering, requiring our service engineers 
to work in customers’ premises. During the year, an audit was
undertaken of working practices for field service engineers, as 
a result of which procedures have been updated.The aim of this
update, which is being progressively rolled out across the sales and
service businesses, is to improve working practices and minimise 
risk to our engineers when working in customers’ premises.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2006 25
Health and safety training is provided as necessary, particularly 
in relation to battery handling and working with electricity.
We also have procedures in place to minimise the exposure of 
our employees to terrorist and other risks while working in sensitive
locations. All travel to areas deemed sensitive by the Foreign Office
travel advice service is subject to prior approval by the Group Risk
Manager. Business continuity policies developed in response to the
threat of epidemics – such as SARS and avian flu – also restrict
travel to affected areas in the event of such an epidemic.
During the year ending 31 March 2006, 233 working days (less 
than 0.1% of the total) were lost due to work-related accidents.
There were no claims against the Company’s employer’s liability
policy arising out of the current Group businesses.
Environment Chloride acknowledges the importance of good
environmental practice to minimise the impact of its activities 
on the environment. Our policy is to comply with standards that 
match or exceed environmental legislation in all countries in which
we operate, and to comply with the ISO 14001 environmental
management standard in our principal operational sites.
The Company has three principal production centres at Bologna,
Italy; Lyon, France and Chicago, USA. Such activities mainly involve
the assembly and testing of electronic products. In accordance with
the nature of these activities, emissions to air and water are low,
and the assembly processes have low consumption of water, energy
and hazardous substances.The principal sales and service sites 
are in Southampton and Bedford, UK; Erlangen, Germany; Istanbul,
Turkey; Madrid, Spain and Sydney, Australia. All of these production
and sales and service centres have achieved ISO 14001 certification,
and upgraded to the more demanding ISO 14001, 2004 issue.
As part of the ISO 14001 requirement, each site is required to
evaluate environmental risks, and measure performance on the 
key areas of impact.These performance measurements are specific
to each site, enabling the focus to be maintained on the areas 
of importance to each site. Compliance with ISO 14001, 2004 
issue is certified by an independent certification body, such as 
the British Standards Institute.
95% of Chloride’s turnover is generated by ISO 14001 compliant
sites. In addition, many of our components are purchased from 
ISO 14001 certified suppliers, and our principal Far Eastern 
supplier of outsourced products is also ISO 14001 certified.
End-of-life treatment in relation to batteries and products, receives
high priority at all sites. All recovered batteries are disposed of
through licensed waste contractors. In Industrial Systems, over 
500 tonnes of waste products and batteries were handled for
customers during the year.
We ensure that our products meet environmental regulations in 
the countries where they are installed and that new products are
progressively more energy efficient.The latest 80.net and 90.net 
UPS systems were designed for high energy efficiency, and in the
Industrial Systems business, raw material content has been reduced,
especially in the Excel Apodys system.
We are actively involved in the industry bodies – notably the
European Committee of Manufacturers of Electrical Machines 
and Power Electronics (CEMEP) – in considering the application 
of the EU Directive 2002/95/EC “Restriction of the use of certain
Hazardous Substances in Electronic Equipment” (the RoHS Directive)
to UPS systems. Although this directive, which requires the reduction
of substances such as lead and cadmium in electronic equipment,
does not directly apply to UPS systems, we have programmes in
place to produce compliant products in our lower power ranges,
and we work with customers to meet their individual compliance
requirements. Although currently there is no equivalent standard
covering the USA, our Oneac subsidiary is also in the process 
of transitioning applicable models to RoHS compliant versions.
We encourage initiatives which benefit the environment and result
in cost savings.We have reduced the requirement for air travel
through the use of video conferencing. Energy savings are achieved
through the use of thermographic technology in Chicago, to detect
areas of the building where heat is lost and improve insulation.
We encourage energy saving initiatives, such as the innovative
system in use at our high-power product test facility in Bologna,
where a vector controlled technology converter is used to recover
and reuse power used by the UPS system under test.This system
gives an energy saving in excess of 80% when testing a 500 KvA
UPS system at full load. 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
NORMAN N BROADHURST FCA FCT 
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
A non-executive director since March 1998, and Chairman since 
August 2001. He is also Chairman of Cattles plc and Freightliner Limited,
a non-executive and senior independent director of Old Mutual plc,
and a non-executive director of United Utilities plc. He was Finance 
Director of Railtrack plc from 1994 until his retirement in 2000. Age 64.
KEITH H HODGKINSON FCMA CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Member of the Nomination Committee
Joined the Board in December 1991 and was confirmed as Chief Executive
in March 1992. His previous career was with GEC plc where he held 
a number of senior appointments. He is a non-executive director of 
De La Rue plc. Age 62.
NEIL W WARNER BA FCA MCT FINANCE DIRECTOR
Joined Chloride and was appointed to the Board as Finance Director 
in 1997. He was with Ocean Group PLC (subsequently Exel plc and 
now part of Deutsche Post World Net) for six years from 1990, following
appointments in his earlier career with BICC Group PLC (now Balfour
Beatty plc), ALCOA and PricewaterhouseCoopers. He is a non-executive
director of Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC. Age 53.
GARY BULLARD BSC NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees
A non-executive director since 1 September 2005, he is Managing Director
UK, BT Global Services, with responsibility for British Telecom’s UK corporate
and government customers. Previously he had 26 years’ experience at IBM,
holding a number of senior management positions in Europe and the USA.
Age 48.
ANGUS S J FRASER MA MBA NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Senior Independent Director Member of the Audit, Remuneration and
Nomination Committees
Joined the Company in 1976 and became an executive director in 1984.
A non-executive director since 1988, he is also Chairman of Alpha Plus
Holdings Limited and Alpha Plus Education Limited and a non-executive
director of Shepherd Building Group Limited and The Caldecott Foundation
Limited. Age 61.
ROBIN S SOUTHWELL BA OBE FRAES
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees
A non-executive director since January 2002, he is Chief Executive 
of EADS UK – European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company,
Chief Executive of Airtanker Limited and Chairman of Euromanx Limited.
He was Chief Executive of W S Atkins PLC until October 2002 and 
his previous career included a number of senior appointments with 
BAE Systems plc. Age 46.
ERIC FTRACEY MCOM FCA ACIS
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Chairman of the Audit Committee, Member of the Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees
A non-executive director since 1 September 2005, he was a partner 
in Deloitte from 1980 to 2004, including periods as head of Deloitte’s
European Energy Infrastructure and Utilities practice, and as head of one 
of the audit operating groups. He was seconded to Amey plc as acting
Finance Director, and was Finance Director of Wembley PLC until 
August 2005. Age 57.
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
From left: Eric Tracey, Angus Fraser, Keith Hodgkinson, Norman Broadhurst, Neil Warner, Robin Southwell and Gary Bullard
  ANNUAL REPORT 2006 27
PRINCIP AL ACTIVITIES
The principal activity during the year under review was the supply of total power protection solutions, including the manufacture and sale of uninterruptible
power supply systems and power conditioners, and after-sale technical support.
ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS
Details are set out in notes 28 and 29 to the financial statements on pages 67 and 68.
RESUL TS AND DIVIDENDS
The results for the year and the financial position at 31 March 2006 are shown in the consolidated income statement on page 43 and the consolidated balance
sheet on page 44.The Chief Executive’s review, starting on page 6, and the financial review, starting on page 20, comprise the business review, commenting on 
the Group’s performance and development during the financial year and its position at the end of the year, and describing the principal risks and uncertainties
relating to the Group.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 1.25p per share which, together with the interim dividend of 1.00p per share paid on 
22 December 2005 makes a total dividend for the year of 2.25p per share (2005: 1.85p). Payment of the final dividend, if approved at the Annual General
Meeting, will be made on 1 August 2006 to shareholders on the register on 30 June 2006.
DIRECTORS
Biographical details of the directors at the year end are set out on page 26. John Wheeler retired as a director on 19 July 2005. Gary Bullard and Eric Tracey,
who were appointed as directors on 1 September 2005, retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for election.
Keith Hodgkinson and Robin Southwell retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. Angus Fraser retires at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting and does not offer himself for re-election.
Keith Hodgkinson has a contract of employment requiring him to give six months’ notice and entitling him to receive 12 months’ notice. Gary Bullard,
Eric Tracey and Robin Southwell do not have service contracts with the Company.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company were as shown in the remuneration report on pages 39 and 40.
During the year no director had a disclosable material interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
POLICY ON PAYMENT OF TRADE CREDITORS
Appropriate terms and conditions are agreed for transactions with suppliers and payment is generally made on these terms.
The average number of days’ credit taken by the Company for trade purchases at the financial year end was 46 days (2005: 40 days).The average number 
of days’ credit taken by Group companies at the financial year end was 84 days (2005: 80 days), reflecting different payment practices in the various countries 
in which Chloride operates.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS
During the year donations of £9,005 (2005: £9,395) were made to charitable organisations which are associated with employees or closely linked with the
communities in which the Company operates. No political donations were made.
INTERESTS IN VOTING SHARES
At 30 May 2006, the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in the Company’s ordinary shares:
Number of % of issued
Name of holder shares shares
Prudential plc 27,256,281 10.95
Standard Life Group 25,242,962 10.14
Legal & General Investment Management plc 9,841,710 3.95
AEGON UK plc 7,868,350 3.16
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 28 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST
The Chloride Group Employee Benefit Trust (the Trust) was established to acquire ordinary shares in the Company to satisfy rights to shares arising on the
exercise of executive share options.
During the year, the Trust made the following transfers out of the Company’s ordinary shares:
Number of 
shares 
Balance at 1 April 2005 10,938,043 
Transferred out (2,631,957)
Balance at 31 March 2006 8,306,086 
No shares were purchased by the Trust during the year.
The Trust is funded by interest-free loans from the Company.The cost of the shares held by the Trust was £9.2 million and the market value was £8.8 million 
at 31 March 2006. Mourant & Co Trustees Limited, as trustee of the Trust, has waived all past and future dividends on ordinary shares held by the Trust except 
to the extent of 0.0001% of each dividend payable per share.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Investment in the development of new and improved products and applications is considered to be key to further improvement of the Company’s competitive
position. Programmes to upgrade existing technology, develop new products, reduce production and operating costs, and improve services to customers receive
high priority. Development engineers work closely with applications and software engineers and sales and marketing staff in the operations to ensure that
development is focused on the Company’s key markets.The Company has departments specialising in the development of critical power protection solutions 
at Chicago, USA (power conditioners and software); Bologna, Italy and Erlangen, Germany (AC power protection products) and Lyon, France (industrial systems).
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
The corporate social responsibility report starting on page 24 comments on the Company’s approach to corporate social responsibility, including its health 
and safety and environmental policies.
EMPLOYEES
Chloride’s policy is to provide equal recruitment and other opportunities for all employees, regardless of sex, religion, race or disability.We endeavour to
provide all possible help to retain employees who have become disabled while working for the Group. It is the practice to encourage lines of employee
communications at local level through appropriate means, such as works councils, briefing groups, workshops and newsletters.
The Company is committed to developing and motivating its people and, in the UK, participates in the Investor in People scheme.There is also a programme 
to help employees acquire professional and technical qualifications that are relevant to their jobs.
Outstanding achievement among the sales staff is recognised by the award of prizes at an annual sales conference.
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during the period under review.The Board believes it is appropriate to seek renewal for a further year 
of the authority given by shareholders at the 2005 Annual General Meeting for the Company to purchase its own shares. Accordingly a resolution to this effect
is included as item 9 in the accompanying notice of meeting.The Board has no present intention of utilising such authority and undertakes that if the resolution 
is passed, the authority will be exercised only if it results in an increase in earnings per share and is in the best interests of the shareholders generally.
AUDIT INFORMATION
In the case of each of the persons who are directors of the Company at the date when this report was approved:
l so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information (as defined by the Companies Act 1985) of which the auditors are unaware; and
l each of the directors has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information (as defined)
and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
AUDITORS
A resolution to reappoint the auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP , will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
SUSAN WILLIAMS
Secretary
5 June 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT 2006 29
COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE
The Board recognises its accountability to shareholders and is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.The Board considers that
throughout the year under review, except in relation to membership of Board committees in the period to 5 September 2005, the Company has complied 
with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Combined Code).
APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF THE COMBINED CODE
This report explains how the Company has applied the principles of the Combined Code to its activities. Section 1 of the Combined Code sets out the main
and supporting principles of good governance for companies, which are split into the following topics: directors, remuneration, accountability and audit, and
relations with shareholders.
DIRECTORS
Board The Company currently operates with a Board of seven directors comprising the non-executive Chairman, four non-executive directors, including the
Senior Independent Director, and two executive directors. Angus Fraser, who has been a non-executive director since 1988, will be retiring from the Board 
at the close of the Annual General Meeting in July 2006.The size of the Board and the balance between executives and non-executives are considered
appropriate to the Company’s size and scope of activities and provide for effective operation.
A schedule of formal meetings of the Board, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee is arranged each year in line with the Company’s
management reporting, and interim and annual reporting cycle. During the year, the Board met formally seven times, together with a further meeting to review
strategy. Attendance at meetings was as follows:
Board Strategy Audit Remuneration Nomination
(7 meetings) (1 meeting) (3 meetings) (4 meetings) (1 meeting)
Norman Broadhurst (2) 7 1 1 2 1
Gary Bullard (3) 5114–
Keith Hodgkinson 7 1 n/a n/a 1
Angus Fraser 61341
Robin Southwell 71341
Eric Tracey (3) 5124–
Neil Warner 7 1 n/a n/a n/a
Notes
1) N/A means that the director is not a member of the Committee. Directors who are not committee members have attended meetings by invitation. Details are not included 
in the table.
2) Norman Broadhurst resigned from the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee on 5 September 2005.
3) Gary Bullard and Eric Tracey joined the Board part way through the year, in September 2005.
In addition to the formal schedule of meetings, the Board held discussions with the executive directors and senior operational managers on strategy, business
development, and other topics important to the Company’s progress.
The Board has reserved to itself powers relating to matters that it considers significant to the Group’s business, operational and financial risks.These are set 
out in a formal schedule and include the approval of corporate policies, strategy, plans and budgets; major acquisitions and disposals of companies or businesses;
major investment and financial decisions; appointments to the Board; executive remuneration policy and major management or organisational changes.
The Chairman and Chief Executive have defined roles, providing for a division of responsibilities between them, which have been documented and approved 
by the Board.The Chairman is responsible primarily for the running of the Board, while the Chief Executive’s primary role is the running of the business and 
the development and implementation of strategy.
The non-executive directors are appointed for fixed terms and the effective dates of the current terms of appointment are set out in the remuneration report
on page 34. Each non-executive director has been appointed for a term or successive terms totalling less than nine years, with the exception of Angus Fraser
who joined the Board in 1984, and has been a non-executive director since 1988.The Board considers that all the non-executive directors are independent 
of management and free of any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Under the Company’s Articles of Association all directors below the age of 65 are required to submit themselves for re-election every other year.
Directors aged 65 or over must submit themselves for re-election each year.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Keith Hodgkinson and Robin Southwell retire by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association and will
seek re-election. Gary Bullard and Eric Tracey also retire in accordance with the Articles of Association, and are seeking election to the Board. Having carried
out an effectiveness review, the Board strongly supports the re-election of Keith Hodgkinson and Robin Southwell and the election of Gary Bullard and Eric
Tracey, and recommends that the shareholders vote in favour of these appointments.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE All the directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and senior managers generally, and may take independent professional
advice at the Company’s expense if they consider it necessary to do so in the furtherance of their duties.
The non-executive directors held one meeting during the year with the Chairman, without the executive directors present.
Board committees The Board has three standing committees – the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees. During the year, the Chairman,
Norman Broadhurst, stepped down from the Audit and Remuneration Committees and now attends the meetings of these committees by invitation.The Board
believes that, as a smaller company, it is appropriate that all the other non-executive directors should participate in the monitoring of the governance issues
affecting the Company, including executive remuneration, succession planning and risk management.There is therefore no provision for fixed periods of
membership of the committees, as recommended by the Combined Code.
The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, which are based on the model terms of reference published by the Institute
of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, are available on request.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Eric Tracey (Committee Chairman), Gary Bullard, Angus Fraser and Robin Southwell. Its activities are
described in the report of the Audit Committee on pages 32 and 33.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises Robin Southwell (Committee Chairman), Gary Bullard, Angus Fraser and Eric Tracey.
Its activities are described in the remuneration report on page 34.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises Norman Broadhurst (Chairman), Gary Bullard, Keith Hodgkinson, Angus Fraser, Robin
Southwell and Eric Tracey. Its responsibilities include, in addition to making recommendations to the Board of proposed new appointments of executive and
non-executive directors, succession planning for directors and senior executives, and making recommendations on reappointment of non-executive directors 
at the end of their period of office.There is a process for recommending non-executive Board appointments, based on a review of the skills of the existing
directors, development of a specification and employment of a firm of recruitment specialists to draw up a shortlist. Given that the Nomination Committee
consists of all the non-executive directors, the Chairman and the Chief Executive, matters of reappointment of non-executives and succession planning are 
also handled within meetings of the main Board. During the year, the Nomination Committee oversaw the recruitment of Gary Bullard and Eric Tracey as 
non-executive directors, using external recruitment consultants for the search process.
Effectiveness reviews The Board conducted a review of its effectiveness during the year.The review process, which was led by the Chairman, was based 
on a combination of written responses by individual directors and review by the Board as a whole.The review concluded that the Board was effective in
carrying out its responsibilities. Actions arising out of the review included a process for increased access to senior management, to improve the balance
between the strategic and operational focus of the Board.This has occurred during the year, through formal presentations and informal discussions on key
operational matters. In addition, the annual Group strategy review instigated as a result of last year’s effectiveness review, was considered to have improved 
the focus of the Board on strategy, and on delivery of the strategy by operational management.
Following the resignation of John Wheeler in July 2005, the Board took the opportunity to refresh its mix of skills and experience through the appointment 
of two non-executive directors. Gary Bullard contributes to the Board extensive sales and marketing experience from blue-chip IT and telecoms companies,
while Eric Tracey, a partner in Deloitte for over 20 years until 2004, brings extensive financial and governance expertise to the Board.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees also conducted reviews of their effectiveness, the results of which are noted in the Audit Committee report 
on page 33 and remuneration report on page 34.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director have conducted reviews of the performance of individual directors.
REMUNERATION 
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for compliance with the Combined Code in determining executive directors’ remuneration.The remuneration
report on pages 34 to 40 demonstrates how Chloride applies the principles of the Combined Code relating to level and make-up of remuneration and 
to disclosure.
ACCOUNT ABILITY AND AUDIT
Financial reporting The Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s position and prospects, through the
Chairman’s statement, the business review (comprising the Chief Executive’s review and the financial review) and directors’ report.
Internal controls The directors are responsible for the Company’s system of internal control which aims to: safeguard the Company’s assets; ensure 
that proper accounting records are maintained; ensure compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements; and ensure the effectiveness and efficiency 
of operations, including the assessment and management of risk. A system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance particularly against misstatement or loss.
30 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT 2006 31
Chloride has a well established and embedded framework of internal financial and operational control for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced 
by the Company.This framework has been in place throughout the year under review, and up to the date of approval of the annual report.The key elements 
of this review process, which included a specific assessment by the Board for the purpose of the annual report and accounts, and complies with the Turnbull
guidance,“Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code” published in September 1999, are as follows:
Directors have responsibility for reviewing the strategy and monitoring the conduct of the Company.The directors and the executive management of the
Company are accountable for their conduct and performance within the agreed strategies. A management structure exists with clearly defined lines of
responsibility and the appropriate levels of delegation.
The Company and its operations are subject to a detailed annual budget process and ongoing formal capital investment appraisal process. Actual performance
during the year is monitored monthly against budget, forecast and previous year, and full-year forecasts are updated at regular intervals during the year, based 
on trended historical data and realistic macroeconomic forecasts.These forecasts and results are presented to the Board regularly.The Chief Executive and
Finance Director each prepare Board reports monitoring performance and actions to achieve objectives.
The Company and its subsidiaries operate control procedures designed to ensure complete and accurate accounting of financial transactions, and to limit 
the risk of loss of assets or fraud. Measures taken include physical controls, segregation of duty in key areas and internal reviews and checks.The identification,
mitigation and monitoring of material risks are primarily the responsibility of operating company management. During the budget and reporting cycle, general
managers and financial controllers are required to identify risks the business is exposed to, assess any potential impact and to put in place actions to reduce
them.The Audit Committee agrees the key risks to the business, which are endorsed by the Board and monitored throughout the year.
During the year, a Risk Committee was set up, chaired by the Finance Director and comprising senior operational and head office management, including 
the Group Risk Manager.The Committee assists the Board in its review of the risk management process by overseeing the risk identification process in the
businesses, and overseeing the management of the risks which the Board has endorsed as being key to the business. During the year, the Risk Committee
investigated topics of importance to the risk profile of the business, including management of supply chain risk and the effectiveness of arrangements for 
the health and safety of engineers working offsite.
The Risk Committee met three times during the year.The minutes were circulated to the Audit Committee Chairman, and its activities were reported to 
the Audit Committee.
Key functions such as tax, treasury, insurance, legal, personnel and systems are controlled centrally.
External audit The external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the Company’s annual report and accounts.They independently and objectively
review management’s reporting of the operational results and financial position.They also review and test the systems of internal control and the data
contained in the annual report and accounts to the extent necessary for expressing their audit opinion.
Internal audit The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function and considers that the Group Risk Manager fulfils this function.The Group Risk
Manager scopes and manages reviews of operations, which are undertaken by him and by other central staff. After each site visit, the Risk Manager provides
reports to management and the Chairman of the Audit Committee. In addition, if the Group Risk Manager needs additional resources, external consultants,
are used to carry out specific reviews.
Going concern The directors confirm that they expect that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS 
Relations with shareholders receive the highest priority.The Company promotes dialogue with institutional shareholders and analysts through regular meetings
following the announcement of interim and final results, and responds positively to invitations to enter into dialogue whenever it considers it to be in the best
interests of shareholders generally to do so. All directors are available to attend meetings with shareholders if requested.The Chairman and Senior Independent
Director attend analysts’ presentations, and the Chairman also attends meetings with institutional shareholders when possible.
Trading updates are issued when deemed necessary, and routinely at the start of the close period before announcement of the preliminary and interim results.
At the Annual General Meeting there is an opportunity, following the formal business, for informal communication between investors and directors. In addition,
information, including the presentations made to institutional shareholders and analysts and recent announcements, is readily available to shareholders on the
Company’s website – www.chloridegroup.com. It has been the Company’s practice to send the notice of Annual General Meeting to shareholders at least 
20 working days before the meeting. This report has been prepared in accordance with the Combined Code, by the Audit Committee of Chloride Group PLC and has been approved by the Board.
MEMBERSHIP
The Committee is made up of four non-executive directors, whom the Board considers to be independent.The members at 31 March 2006 were Eric Tracey
(Chairman) (appointed 5 September 2005), Gary Bullard (appointed 5 September 2005), Angus Fraser and Robin Southwell.
During the year, Angus Fraser stepped down from the Committee Chairmanship, and Eric Tracey was appointed to the role. Norman Broadhurst stepped down
from membership of the Committee in September 2005.The members bring extensive experience of corporate management in senior executive positions to
the Committee. The Chairman, Mr Tracey, has recent and relevant financial experience, gained through his position as a partner in Deloitte until 2004, and as
finance director of Amey PLC and Wembley PLC.
RESPONSIBILITIES
The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in written terms of reference based on the best practice model published by the Institute 
of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, which are available on request and include the following:
l monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, reviewing the annual and interim reports in detail to ensure that they present a balanced and
understandable assessment of the Company’s position and prospects;
l reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls and risk management systems;
l overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, monitoring their independence, agreeing the scope of audit and monitoring the effectiveness 
of the audit process;
l making recommendations to the Board on the requirement for an internal audit function and reviewing the effectiveness of internal audit; and
l reviewing the Company’s arrangements for whistleblowing.
The Committee has authority to investigate any matters within its terms of reference and has access to the resources and information it requires 
for this purpose.
The Committee is entitled to obtain independent professional advice on matters within its terms of reference.
MEETINGS
The Committee met three times during the year – in May, November and March.The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and the
meetings were attended by invitation by the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Risk Manager and other senior finance staff.
The external auditors also attended the Committee meetings and provided written reports to the pre- and post-year end Committee meeting, summarising 
the audit plan and the findings of their audit work.
During the year, the Committee met once with the auditors without executive managers being present. It also held a private meeting with the Group Risk
Manager, in addition to which the Committee Chairman met regularly with the Group Risk Manager to review matters arising from his site visit reports.
Attendance at meetings by the Committee members was as set out in the corporate governance report on page 29.
ACTIVITIES
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the likely impact of the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for the year ended 
31 March 2006, and the management’s action plan to ensure a smooth conversion process.This review took place through the formal meetings and in
discussion between Committee members, (including the Committee Chairman), the auditors and Company management.The restatement of the Company’s
2005 figures under IFRS, announced on 29 September 2005, was reviewed by the full Board, focusing on the key areas of impact.
The meeting that took place in May 2005 was principally concerned with the draft financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2005, together with the
draft preliminary results announcement.The Audit Committee considered the report of the external auditors on the full-year audit, concentrating on issues 
of judgement and audit focus identified in the audit plan. At the November meeting, the Committee considered the draft interim financial statements for the
period ended 30 September 2005, together with the draft interim results announcement.The Committee also considered the auditors’ review report on the
interim financial statements, concentrating on the key areas of work focus, including the consistency of application of the IFRS accounting policies originally
adopted by the Company.
The meeting in March 2006 was concerned primarily with the review of the business risk management process, including the activities of the Risk Committee,
the outcome from risk control visits, and the agreement of the visit plan for the forthcoming year. In addition, the external audit plan and audit fee for 2005/06
were agreed at this meeting.
32 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2006 33
EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW
During the year, the Committee reviewed its effectiveness through a process led by the Committee Chairman.The findings were reported to the Committee
and the Board. Although the Committee considered it had the right mix of skills and experience to perform its responsibilities, it was recognised that 
Mr Broadhurst’s continuing membership of the Committee was not in accordance with best practice under the Combined Code. During the year this 
was addressed by Norman Broadhurst stepping down from the Committee.
The Committee also reviewed the effectiveness of the audit process, and shared its findings with the auditors. Based on the Committee’s view of the
performance of the external auditors and on the planning and execution of the annual audit, the Committee has recommended to the Board that 
a resolution to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE
In order to maintain the independence of the external auditors, the Company has a policy for determining the types of non-audit work for which it is
appropriate to use the external auditors, including a clearance procedure for fees.The Committee is satisfied that these procedures have been followed 
during the year, and that the external auditor has in place robust procedures, including the rotation of audit staff and partners, to ensure their independence,
preserve objectivity and comply with regulatory and professional requirements.
This report was approved by the Board on 5 June 2006 and signed on its behalf by
ERIC TRACEY INTRODUCTION
This report is presented in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Combined Code) and the
Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 (the Regulations).The Regulations require the auditors to report on the “auditable part” of the remuneration
report.The audited information has therefore been separately highlighted.
Responsibilities The role and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are set out in written terms of reference based on the best practice model
published by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, which are available on request and include the following:
l determination of the policy for remuneration of the executive directors and designated senior managers;
l determination of individual remuneration packages for the executive directors and designated senior managers;
l consideration of executive directors’ service agreements, pensions and related matters;
l making recommendations to the Board on the design of share incentive plans; and
l exercise of all powers and discretions of the directors in connection with the Company’s savings-related and executive share option schemes.
Fees of the non-executive Chairman and the non-executive directors are determined by the Board.
Membership The Remuneration Committee is made up of non-executive directors, whom the Board considers to be independent.The members of the
Remuneration Committee during the year were Robin Southwell (Chairman), Gary Bullard (appointed 5 September 2005), Angus Fraser and Eric Tracey
(appointed 5 September 2005). Norman Broadhurst (resigned from the Committee 5 September 2005) and John Wheeler (resigned 19 July 2005) were 
also members of the Committee during the year.
Advisers During the year, the Remuneration Committee received advice on remuneration of executive directors and senior executives from the Chief
Executive and the Director of Personnel, neither of whom take part in the determination of their own remuneration. Advice was also received from the
Company Secretary in relation to the Company’s share option plans. Advice was obtained from New Bridge Street Consultants LLP (NBSC), who were
appointed by the Remuneration Committee to advise on executive remuneration, and long-term incentive arrangements, including employee share schemes.
NBSC have no other connection with the Company.
Effectiveness Review During the year, the Remuneration Committee reviewed its effectiveness through a process of written reviews and discussion, led 
by the Committee Chairman.The Remuneration Committee considered that it had the right mix of skills and experience to perform its responsibilities, but
recognised that Norman Broadhurst’s continuing chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee was not in accordance with best practice.The Board appointed
Mr Southwell as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in July 2005 and Mr Broadhurst stepped down from the Committee following the appointment 
of Eric Tracey and Gary Bullard in September 2005.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Policy on remuneration The fees of non-executive directors and the non-executive Chairman are determined by the Board and normally reviewed every
two years, the last review having taken place in January 2005.The policy is to set fees at the median level relative to companies with a comparable market
capitalisation. Fees do not contain any performance-related element and the non-executive directors do not participate in the Chloride Pension Scheme or in
the share option or performance share schemes. Additional fees are paid for chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, reflecting the additional
workload and responsibility of these appointments. Non-executive directors have no entitlement to compensation for early termination of their term of
appointment, and take no part in the determination of their own remuneration.
Details of fees paid to non-executive directors, including the Chairman, are included in the table headed “Summary of remuneration” on page 38.
T erm of appointment The non-executive directors are appointed for specified terms of approximately three years.Their letters of appointment have no
contractual notice period, and the appointment of each non-executive director is subject to re-election by shareholders on retirement by rotation, which occurs
every two years, or every year in the case of a director aged 65 or over.The dates from which the respective letters of appointment came into effect are as
follows: Norman Broadhurst – 31 March 2004; Gary Bullard – 1 September 2005; Angus Fraser – 31 March 2004; Robin Southwell – 21 January 2005 and 
Eric Tracey – 1 September 2005.
34 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2006 35
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Policy on remuneration The policy is to provide a combination of salary, short- and long-term incentives and benefits, which form a competitive and fair
total remuneration package. Performance-related remuneration in the form of annual bonus, together with share options and performance shares, comprises 
a significant proportion of the total remuneration opportunity but is only receivable if stretching performance targets, which require substantial improvement 
in financial performance and, in the case of performance shares, superior total shareholder return, are achieved.
COMPONENTS OF THE REMUNERATION PACKAGE
Base salary The base salary of each executive director is reviewed annually, taking into account the responsibilities and performance of the individual together
with independently furnished information on rates for similar jobs in comparable industry sectors. In particular, base salaries recognise salary levels in a group of
comparably-sized companies in the electronics sector and other similar sectors. Details of salaries, bonuses and benefits paid to executive directors are included
in the table headed “Summary of remuneration” on page 38.The current basic salaries of the executive directors with effect from 1 April 2006 are:
K H Hodgkinson £355,000
N W Warner £230,000
These represent an increase of approximately 5% for Keith Hodgkinson and 3% for Neil Warner since 2005/06.
Annual bonus Chloride operates annual incentive plans for certain employees, including executive directors. Eligibility for inclusion in such schemes and 
the measures of performance to be used are decided annually, taking account of key business issues. For the year under review and for 2006/07, the financial
measure applicable to the incentive plans for executive directors is actual adjusted earnings per share compared with the previous year. In 2006/07, for the
Group Finance Director and other senior executives, 50% of bonus will also be dependent on achievement of personal objectives, in addition to the financial
target. For the executive directors, the maximum award under the annual incentive plan is 75% of base salary. Bonus amounts earned up to 55% of base salary
are paid in cash. If the bonuses exceed this level, then any bonus earned above 50% of base salary is deferred into shares which are released after two years,
subject to the executive director remaining in the Company’s employment. Outstanding bonus shares earned by the executive directors under the deferred
bonus plan are included in the table headed “Interests under share plans” on page 40. Bonuses earned by the executive directors under annual incentive plans
are not pensionable.
Benefits in kind The taxable benefits provided to executive directors are use of a fully-expensed car or car allowance, life insurance and medical cover.
Pensions The executive directors are members of the final salary section of the Chloride 1996 Pension Scheme (“the 1996 Scheme”).This scheme is a 
funded, contributory, HMRC-approved, occupational pension scheme, which is contracted into the State Earnings-Related Pension Scheme. It provides a pension
of up to two-thirds of final pensionable earnings (up to normal retirement age under the Scheme), depending on service.The 1996 Scheme also provides for
dependants’ pensions and lump sums on death in service.
The table headed “Pension entitlements” on page 38 shows the retirement benefits, excluding voluntary contributions, which accrued under the defined benefit
section of the 1996 Scheme to Keith Hodgkinson and Neil Warner during the period under review, together with the total accrued annual pension to which
each director would be entitled under defined benefit arrangements on leaving service.
With effect from 6 April 2006, the 1996 Scheme has adopted a cap on pensionable salary, in place of the statutory earnings cap, which is cost neutral to the
Company.The pension benefits of Keith Hodgkinson and Neil Warner are subject to this cap and they each receive salary supplements in relation to salary 
in excess of the cap.The amount of these payments is shown in the table on page 38 headed “Summary of remuneration”. EXECUTIVE SHARE INCENTIVE SCHEMES
Policy The Board encourages executive directors to build and maintain holdings of shares in the Company and believes that the potential for increased share
ownership which is provided by share-based incentive schemes is an important element in promoting closer alignment of the interests of shareholders and
executive directors.The policy is to make annual grants of share options and performance shares, with a combined annual aggregate limit on the value of 
shares under award of two times basic salary.The effect of this overall limit is that an individual cannot receive more value under a combination of Performance
Share Plan (PSP) awards and Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) grants than he could have under only one plan. In calculating the value of awards,
a performance share is deemed equal to two ESOS awards. For example, an individual could receive a maximum option grant of 200% of salary or 
a performance share grant of 100% of salary. Alternatively, he could receive a 100% option grant and a 50% performance share grant to receive the 
maximum level of award per annum.
Share option scheme The current share option scheme is the Chloride Group 2001 Executive Share Option Scheme. Options granted under this scheme
are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant, on condition that the Company’s adjusted earnings per share (EPS)
growth over a period of at least three consecutive financial years from the date of grant exceeds the growth in the UK Retail Prices Index by:
l 3% a year compound for options over shares worth up to 100% of annual remuneration base salary;
l 4% a year compound for options over shares worth over 100% but not more than 150% of base salary; and
l 7% a year compound for options over shares worth over 150% of base salary.
In the case of options granted before 31 March 2004, if these targets are not satisfied by the fifth anniversary of grant, the share options lapse. In the case of
options granted after 31 March 2004, options will lapse if the performance condition is not achieved by the third anniversary of grant. Adjusted EPS as disclosed
in the report and accounts was chosen as the basis for the performance condition because achievement of the growth in EPS necessary before options may be
exercised would require a substantial improvement in the Company’s underlying financial performance.
Following the move to International Accounting Standards, the Remuneration Committee ensures the EPS targets are appropriately calculated to 
ensure consistency.
Performance Share Plan The Company also operates a Performance Share Plan.The maximum annual value of shares which can be granted under the 
PSP is 100% of salary.
Awards granted under the PSP are normally exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of the award, to the extent that a total shareholder return (TSR)
performance target is met over a fixed performance period of three financial years.The TSR target compares the Company’s TSR with that of constituents of
the FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding investment trusts). Awards vest as follows:
Chloride’s ranking % of awards which vest
Below median 0%
Median 30%
Between median and upper quartile straight line between 30% and 100%
Upper quartile 100%
In addition, no awards will vest under the PSP unless the Company’s EPS growth is at least equal to the growth in the Retail Prices Index plus 2% p.a. over the
performance period.
Previous executive share option schemes Prior to the Chloride Group 2001 Executive Share Option Scheme and the Performance Share Plan, the Company
operated the Chloride Group 1994 Share Option Scheme and the 1996 Share Option Scheme, under which HMRC-approved options and, in the case of the
1996 Scheme unapproved options, were granted to executive directors as well as senior executives and are still exercisable. No further options will be granted
under the 1994 or 1996 schemes. Options granted under the 1994 and 1996 Schemes are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of
the date of grant, subject to meeting the performance measures stated in the notes to the table headed “Interests under share plans” on page 39.
36 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT 2006 37
SAVINGS-RELATED SHARE OPTION SCHEME 
The Company operates a savings-related share option scheme – the 1997 Scheme. Under the scheme, options – which are available to eligible UK employees
who contract to save a specified monthly amount – are not normally exercisable until the expiry of three or, depending on an individual’s initial election,
five years from the contract start date.
The outstanding interests of the executive directors under all executive share option schemes, the Performance Share Plan and the savings-related share
scheme are set out in the table starting on page 39 headed “Interests under share plans”.
CONTRACTS OF EMPLOYMENT 
Each of the executive directors has a rolling contract of employment, terminable on 12 months’ notice if terminated by the Company and six months’ notice 
if terminated by the director.
Keith Hodgkinson and Neil Warner last signed a contract of employment on 1 December 1991 and 23 April 1997 respectively. In the event of termination by
the Company, each of the executive directors would be entitled to 12 months’ salary, pension benefits, salary supplement in lieu of FURBS and benefits in kind.
In an appropriate case the Company would have regard to the departing director’s duty to mitigate loss. However, in the event of dismissal following a change
of control of the Company, each executive director would be entitled to receive a prescribed payment made up of 12 months’ salary and benefits including 
a bonus payment of 20% of basic salary.
No compensation payments were made to executive or non-executive directors during the year.
POLICY ON EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The current policy is that executive directors should not take on more than one major outside appointment and then only with the prior approval of the
Board. Fees associated with any such appointment will normally be retained by the individual. During the year, Keith Hodgkinson received and retained fees 
of £37,000 from his non-executive directorship of De La Rue plc. Neil Warner received and retained fees of £23,250 from his non-executive directorship 
of Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
The graph set out below shows the performance of the Company over the last five financial years in terms of total shareholder return (TSR), relative to the
FTSE Small Cap Index excluding Investment Trusts.The Company has selected this as the comparator because the Company is a constituent of this index and
has used it as a performance benchmark for a number of years.The graph demonstrates the comparative TSR in terms of annual movements. A graph showing
comparative TSR over the three years commencing 1 April 2003 is included in the financial review on page 21.
TOT AL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
CHLORIDE plc FTSE SMALL CAP INDEX (excluding Investment Trusts)
Source Thomson Financial
This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2006, of £100 invested in Chloride plc on 31 March 2001 compared with the value of £100 invested 
in the FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding Investment Trusts). The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
0
25
50
75
100
125
150
Value (£)
31 March 2001 31 March 2002 31 March 2003 31 March 2004 31 March 2005 31 March 2006 AUDITED INFORMATION
Summary of remuneration
2006
Fees/ Performance- 
basic related Salary Other 2005 
salary bonus supplement benefits Total T otal 
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 
Chairman
N N Broadhurst 79.0 79.0 73.0 
Chief Executive
K H Hodgkinson 338.0 253.5
1
169.9 43.5 804.9 742.3 
Executive director
N W Warner 223.5 167.6
2
59.2 10.9 461.2 415.5 
Non-executive directors
G Bullard* 15.8 15.8 n/a 
A S J Fraser 30.0 30.0 27.0 
R S Southwell 28.4 28.4 24.0 
E F Tracey* 17.0 17.0 n/a 
J A C Wheeler** 8.0 8.0 24.0 
Aggregate remuneration 739.7 421.1 229.1 54.4 1,444.3 1,305.8 
Notes
1 Of Mr Hodgkinson’s bonus, £84,500 will be deferred into shares, in accordance with the Deferred Bonus Scheme Rules.
2 Of Mr Warner’s bonus, £55,900 will be deferred into shares, in accordance with the Deferred Bonus Scheme Rules.
* Mr Bullard and Mr Tracey were appointed on 1 September 2005.
** Mr Wheeler resigned from the Board on 19 July 2005.
Payments listed in the column entitled "Salary supplement" represent payments made to Mr Hodgkinson and Mr Warner in lieu of pension contributions.
Performance-related bonuses are earned in respect of the year under which they are shown but are not paid until the following year.
PENSION ENTITLEMENTS
Transfer Transfer
Increase in value of value of Increase in
Increase in accrued Transfer Accumulated accrued accrued transfer value
accrued pension Directors’ value of total accrued pension pension during the
Years of pension during the compulsory increase (net pension benefits benefits year (net of
pensionable during year contributions of directors’ As at as at as at directors’
service at the (excluding in compulsory 31 March 31 March 31 March compulsory
31 March year inflation) 2005/06 contributions) 2006 2005 2006 contributions)
2006££££££££
K H Hodgkinson 14 years 1,554 951 3,520 20,786 24,225 427,570 483,865 52,775
N W Warner 8 years 3,148 2,576 5,280 37,595 24,684 281,164 374,170 87,726
11 months
Notes
1 The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement under the terms of the Chloride 1996 Pension Scheme based on service to 31 March 2006.
2 The transfer values (and their increases) in columns 5, 7, 8 and 9 have been calculated in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
3 The difference between the transfer value increase shown in column 5 and column 9 arises from a change in the date of calculation of transfer values.
4 From 1 April 2006, the normal retirement age for directors is 65. Mr Hodgkinson reached his normal retirement age of 62 (for 1996 Scheme purposes only) on 15 November 2005
and ceased to pay contributions and accrue pension from that date. He is entitled to a pension under the 1996 Scheme, increased for late payment, on his actual retirement.
The transfer values shown in the above table are a liability of the 1996 Scheme.The above table combines the disclosures required by the Listing Rules of the
Financial Services Authority and the Directors’ Remuneration Regulations 2002.
38 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT 2006 39
Interests under share plans The directors’ interests in share options, and performance shares all of which were granted for nil or nominal consideration,
and in deferred bonus shares, as at 31 March 2006 were as follows:
Number of ordinary shares under option
At (Exercised) At
Date Option 1 April /granted 31 March Normal exercise period
of grant price 2005 2005/06 Note 2006 From T o
Executive share option schemes
K H Hodgkinson 26.06.1998 48.75p 400,000 – 1 400,000 26.06.2001 25.06.2008
26.07.1999 78.5p 200,000 – 2 200,000 26.07.2002 25.07.2009
30.05.2000 135.5p 616,000 – 2 616,000 30.05.2003 29.05.2010
13.08.2001 70p 415,000 – 3 415,000 13.08.2004 12.08.2011
06.06.2002 44.5p 550,000 – 1 550,000 06.06.2005 05.06.2012
05.06.2003 35.0p 600,000 – 3 600,000 05.06.2006 04.06.2013
27.07.2004 45.75p 261,702 – 4 261,702 27.07.2007 26.07.2014
01.06.2005 65.875p – 415,574 4 415,574 01.06.2008 31.05.2015
3,042,702 415,574 3,458,276
N W Warner 26.07.1999 78.5p 559,000 – 2 559,000 26.07.2002 25.07.2009
30.05.2000 135.5p 80,000 – 2 80,000 30.05.2003 29.05.2010
13.08.2001 70p 280,000 – 3 280,000 13.08.2004 12.08.2011
06.06.2002 44.5p 375,000 (250,000) 1 125,000 06.06.2005 05.06.2012
05.06.2003 35.0p 400,000 3 400,000 05.06.2006 04.06.2013
27.07.2004 45.75p 173,138 4 173,138 27.07.2007 26.07.2014
01.06.2005 65.875p – 266,803 4 266,803 01.06.2008 31.05.2015
1,867,138 16,803 1,883,941
T otal 4,909,840 432,377 5,342,217
Performance share plan
K H Hodgkinson 27.07.2004 nil 130,851 – 5 & 7 130,851 27.07.2007 26.07.2008
01.06.2005 nil – 69,262 6 & 7 69,262 01.06.2008 31.05.2009
130,851 69,262 200,113
N W Warner 27.07.2004 nil 86,569 – 5 & 7 86,569 27.07.2007 26.07.2008
01.06.2005 nil – 44,467 6 & 7 44,467 01.06.2008 31.05.2009
86,569 44,467 131,036
Total 217,420 113,729 331,149
Notes
1 Performance condition met.
2 Performance condition requires the Company’s share price to outperform the FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding investment trusts) in six out of any nine consecutive months from
the 28th month following the date of grant and for growth in the Company’s adjusted earnings per share to exceed that of the UK Retail Prices Index over a period of at least
three financial years.
3 Performance condition requires the growth in the Company’s adjusted earnings per share to exceed that of the UK Retail Prices Index by 3% per annum compound over 
a period of three consecutive financial years, with two re-testing opportunities.
4 Performance condition requires the growth in the Company’s adjusted earnings per share to exceed that of the UK Retail Prices Index by 3% per annum compound over a fixed
period of three consecutive financial years from the date of grant.
5 The share price on the date of grant was 45.5p.
6 The share price on the date of grant was 65.5p.
7 Performance condition requires that the Company’s total shareholder return over a fixed period of three financial years be at least median against the FTSE Small Cap Index
(excluding investment trusts) and that the growth in the Company’s earnings per share exceeds the growth in the UK Retail Prices Index by 2% per annum over the same period.
The mid-market price of an ordinary share as at 31 March 2006 was 105.5p (2005: 61p).The mid-market price ranged during the year from a low of 56.5p
(2005: 42p) to a high of 116p (2005: 64p).
Keith Hodgkinson did not exercise any share options during the year. Neil Warner exercised options over 250,000 shares on 12 September 2005 at the option
price of 44.5p per share.The mid-market quotation on that date was 79p per share.The aggregate realised gain on exercise of these shares was £86,250. At (Exercised) At
Date Option 1 April /granted 31 March Normal exercise period
of grant price 2005 2005/06 2006 From T o
Savings-related share 
option scheme
K H Hodgkinson 03.07.2002 37.5p 44,133 – 44,133 01.10.2007 31.03.2008
44,133 – 44,133
N W Warner 03.07.2003 30.5p 52,213 – 52,213 01.10.2008 31.03.2009
52,213 – 52,213
T otal 96,346 – 96,346
Market At At
Date Date price at date 1 April 31 March
of award of maturity of award 2005 2006
Deferred bonus share plan
K H Hodgkinson 01.06.05 01.04.07 66p – 49,696
N W Warner 01.06.05 01.04.07 66p – 32,878
T otal – 82,574
Notes
1 The deferred bonus shares noted above do not include those to be awarded in respect of the year ending 31 March 2006.
2 The qualifying condition requires the recipient to remain in the Company’s employment until the date of maturity.
Directors’ interests in shares The directors had the following interests in shares of the Company:
Number of Number of 
ordinary ordinary
shares shares
31 March 2006 1 April 2005
N N Broadhurst 10,000 10,000 
G Bullard – n/a 
A S J Fraser 30,000 30,000 
K H Hodgkinson 806,590 805,902 
R S Southwell – –
E F Tracey – n/a 
N W Warner 206,176 206,176 
Notes
1 In addition to the interests disclosed above, all of which are beneficial, Keith Hodgkinson and Neil Warner are each regarded as having a technical interest in the ordinary shares 
in the Company held by the Chloride Group Employee Benefit Trust (see page 28). Neither of them is, however, entitled to receive from the Trust more shares than may be
allocated to him upon exercise of options under executive share option schemes shown above.The Trust held 8,306,086 shares on 31 March 2006 (2005: 10,938,043).
2 There have been no changes in the holdings of the directors between 31 March and 30 May 2006.
This report was approved by the Board on 5 June 2006 and signed on its behalf by
ROBIN SOUTHWELL
40 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT 2006 41
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements.The directors are required to prepare financial statements for 
the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and have also elected to prepare financial statements for the Company in
accordance with IFRS. Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards,
the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Company’s financial position, financial performance
and cash flows.This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and
recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Board’s “Framework for the preparation and
Presentation of Financial Statements” In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial
Reporting Standards. Directors are also required to:
l properly select and apply accounting policies;
l prepare information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; and
l provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular
transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company,
for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors’
report and directors’ remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES We have audited the Group financial statements of Chloride Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2006 which comprise the income statement, the balance
sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement of recognised income and expenses and the related notes 1 to 36. These Group financial statements have been
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in the directors’ remuneration report that is described as having
been audited.
We have reported separately on the individual Company financial statements of Chloride Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work has been
undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no other
purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors’ remuneration report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted for use in the European Union are set out in the statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance
with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial reporting
framework and whether the Group financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We report to you if, in our opinion, the directors’ report is not
consistent with the Group financial statements. We also report to you if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not complied with any of the four directors’ remuneration disclosure requirements specified for 
our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority. These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information
on share options, details of long-term incentive schemes, and money purchase and defined benefit schemes. We give a statement, to the extent possible,
of details of any non-compliance.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified
for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.We are not required to consider whether the Board’s statement
on internal control covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control
procedures.
We read the directors’ report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section including 
the unaudited part of the directors’ remuneration report. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements 
or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration
report described as having been audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of
the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient
evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report described as having been audited
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of
the presentation of information in the Group financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report described as having been audited.
OPINION
In our opinion:
l the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union, of the state of the Group’s
affairs as at 31 March 2006 and of its profit for the year ended 31 March 2006;
l the Group financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
l the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London, United Kingdom
5 June 2006
Notes: An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether any changes may have
occurred to the financial statements since first published.These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
42 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE
MEMBERS OF CHLORIDE GROUP PLC 2006 2005
£000 £000
Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations 1,028 564
Gains on cash flow hedges 856 –
Actuarial gains on post-employment employee benefits 336 1,072
Tax on items recognised in equity 558 (301)
Income and expense for the period recognised in equity 2,778 1,335
Transfers
IAS 39 transfers to income or expense (516) –
Profit for the period 11,059 3,225
T otal recognised income and expense for the period 13,321 4,560
Restatement for the effects of IAS 32 and 39 (141) –
13,180 4,560
2006 2005
Notes £000 £000
Continuing operations
Sales 3,4 179,242 151,718
Cost of sales 103,046 87,873
Gross profit 76,196 63,845
Distribution costs 27,330 27,548
Administrative expenses 31,384 25,044
Operating profit before restructuring and amortisation of acquired intangibles 17,482 11,253
Other operating costs
Restructuring costs 5 – (3,195)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 14 (91) –
Operating profit 4,6 17,391 8,058
Finance cost 7 (3,581) (2,657)
Investment income 7 1,728 1,490
Profit before tax 4 15,538 6,891
Income tax expense 8 (4,223) (2,111)
Profit for the period from continuing operations 11,315 4,780
Discontinued operations
Loss for the period from discontinued operations 9 (256) (1,555)
Profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the parent 27 11,059 3,225
Earnings per share 11
Basic
Continuing operations 4.73p 2.01p
Discontinued operations (0.10)p (0.65)p
T otal operations 4.63p 1.36p
Diluted
Continuing operations 4.68p 2.01p
Discontinued operations (0.10)p (0.66)p
T otal operations 4.58p 1.35p
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
ANNUAL REPORT 2006 43
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED
INCOME AND EXPENSE
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
The information on pages 43 to 74 inclusive forms part of these accounts. 2006 2005
Notes £000 £000
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill 13 43,225 31,635
Other intangible assets 14 3,057 2,198
Property, plant and equipment 15 17,415 17,396
Investments 16 638 –
Deferred tax assets 24 5,700 4,932
70,035 56,161
Current assets
Inventories 17 26,349 24,807
Trade and other receivables 18 65,107 52,974
Derivative financial instruments 23 321 –
Cash and cash equivalents 19 22,065 17,086
113,842 94,867
Assets held for sale 28 – 9,975
T otal assets 183,877 161,003
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts and other loans 21 13,291 18,034
Obligations under finance leases 22 35 7
Trade and other payables 20 60,394 48,900
Tax payable 10,796 8,647
Provisions 25 4,276 2,418
88,792 78,006
Non-current liabilities
Bank and other loans 21 25,627 14,134
Obligations under finance leases 22 37 12
Other payables 20 42 37
Post-employment benefits 33 6,961 10,497
Deferred tax liabilities 24 1,937 943
Tax payable 321 429
Provisions 25 2,188 4,086
37,113 30,138
Liabilities held for sale 28 – 5,195
T otal liabilities 125,905 113,339
Net assets 57,972 47,664
Equity
Issued capital 26 62,248 62,183
Share premium 27 3,014 2,987
Own shares 27 (9,150) (10,395)
Retained earnings 27 69 (7,675)
Foreign exchange reserve 27 1,592 564
Hedge reserve account 27 199 –
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 57,972 47,664
Approved by the Board on 5 June 2006
K H HODGKINSON N W WARNER
Director Director
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AT 31 MARCH
44 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
The information on pages 43 to 74 inclusive forms part of these accounts. 2006 2005
£000 £000
Operating activities
Operating profit – continuing businesses 17,391 8,058
Operating loss – discontinued business (292) (867)
17,099 7,191
Intangible asset amortisation 442 414
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,659 2,680
Book gain on sale of property, plant and equipment (16) (24)
Non-cash charge for employee share schemes 568 308
Post-employment benefits (731) (891)
Restructuring (2,700) 1,457
Increase/(decrease) in other provisions 874 (1,206)
Operating cash flow before working capital movements 18,195 9,929
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (141) 214
Increase in trade and other receivables (7,634) (5,861)
Increase in trade and other payables 6,024 6,598
Cash generated by operations 16,444 10,880
Income taxes paid (3,607) (1,162)
Finance costs paid (2,030) (1,252)
Investment income 304 174
Net cash from operating activities 11,111 8,640
Investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (2,302) (4,210)
Purchase of software (252) (2,008)
Sale of property, plant and equipment 247 531
Sale of business 4,991 –
Purchase of businesses (10,571) (493)
Purchase of investment (638) –
Net cash used in investing activities (8,525) (6,180)
Financing activities
Share capital issued 99 55
Proceeds from sale of own shares 1,245 105
Capital element of finance lease repayments 33 (97)
(Decrease)/increase in short-term borrowings (5,058) 16,582
Increase/(decrease) in long-term borrowings 11,487 (1,039)
Decrease in discounted bills 66 (601)
Equity dividend paid (4,777) (4,038)
Net cash from financing activities 3,095 10,967
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 5,681 13,427
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 16,375 3,084
Net foreign exchange differences (87) (136)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 21,969 16,375
ANNUAL REPORT 2006 45
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
The information on pages 43 to 74 inclusive forms part of these accounts. 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
1 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING
Chloride Group PLC is a UK listed electronics company and together with its subsidiary operations is hereafter referred to as “the Company”.The Company 
is required to prepare its consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the European
Union for its accounting period beginning on 1 April 2005. As the Company is also required to publish comparative information for this period on a consistent
basis its effective transition date to IFRS is 1 April 2004.
The preparation of financial statements under IFRS requires the directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies
and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and income and expenses.These estimates and associated assumptions are based on past experience and
other factors considered applicable at the time and are used to make judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that cannot be readily
determined from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.These estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing 
basis. Changes to estimates and assumptions are reflected in the financial statements in the period in which they are made.
Critical accounting judgements and areas of estimation uncertainty In applying the Company’s accounting policies as set out in note 2,
management has made accounting judgements in the determination of the carrying value of deferred tax assets, intangible assets, the quantification of provisions
and the impairment of goodwill. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making assumptions and estimates, actual outcomes will differ from those
assumptions and estimates. An analysis of the key sources of estimation uncertainty is provided below.
Deferred tax assets The carrying value of certain deferred tax assets is dependent on sufficient taxable profits being generated in certain territories 
in future periods.
Intangible assets T o determine the net present value of certain customer relationships, management estimated the additional future cash flows arising 
from those relationships after estimating the attrition factor relevant to the customer relationship.
Provisions The quantification of certain liabilities within provisions (for environmental remediation obligations and for legal costs in relation to certain claims)
have been estimated. Such liabilities depend on the actions of third parties and on the specific circumstances pertaining to each obligation, neither of which 
is controlled by the Group.
Impairment of non-current assets To determine whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units 
to which goodwill has been allocated.The value-in-use calculation requires management to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the 
cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Retirement benefit obligations In assessing the Group’s obligations relating to retirement benefits, management made key assumptions relating to current
and future mortality, expected returns on plan assets and discount rates.
Presentation under IFRS The statements are presented in pounds sterling and have been prepared under IFRS using the historical cost convention.
The Company therefore complies with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulations, adjusted by the revaluation of certain assets and liabilities to fair value.The nature 
of these adjustments are set out in the policies below.
At the date of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue 
but not effective:
IFRS 6 – Exploration for the evaluation of mineral resources (not applicable to the Company)
IFRS 7 – Financial instruments: Disclosures; and the related IAS 1 amendment on capital disclosures
IFRIC 4 – Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease
IFRIC 5 – Rights to interests arising from decommissioning, restoration and environmental rehabilitation funds
The directors do not anticipate that the implementation of these standards and interpretations will have material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
The accounting policies set out below have been consistently applied to all the years presented except where the Company has taken advantage of the options
permitted by IFRS 1 (First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards).
These options are as follows:
a) Business combinations: The Company has chosen not to restate to IFRS business combinations and the resultant acquisition goodwill for acquisitions
made prior to the transition date.
b) Cumulative translation differences: IAS 21 (The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates) requires that the cumulative exchange differences
previously recognised directly in equity for foreign operations are transferred to the income statement as part of the profit or loss on any subsequent disposal.
As permitted by IFRS 1 the Company has reset these cumulative foreign exchange translation differences to zero at the transition date.
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
  ANNUAL REPORT 2006 47
1 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING CONTINUED
c) Share-based payments: The Company has applied IFRS 2 (Share-Based Payments) only to awards made after 7 November 2002 and which have not
vested by 1 January 2005.
d) Employee benefits: The Company has adopted the amendments to IAS 19 issued in December 2004 which are expected to be endorsed by the European
Union.All cumulative actuarial gains and losses relating to the Company’s post-employment arrangements have been recognised in equity at the transition date.
e) Financial instruments: The Company has taken the exemption not to restate comparatives for IAS 32 (Financial Instruments: Disclosure and
Presentation), and IAS 39 (Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement).
f) Fair value or revaluation at deemed cost: The Company has not adopted the option to restate items of property, plant and equipment to fair 
value at the transition date. Such items are therefore shown at cost or in the case of certain Company freehold properties at its valuation in 1993 net 
of subsequent depreciation.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the accounts of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its
subsidiaries) made up to 31 March each year. Subsidiaries are those companies in which the Company has control, directly or indirectly, over the operations 
so as to obtain benefits from those companies’ activities.The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from 
the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions
between Group companies have been eliminated.
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Business combinationsThe acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate 
of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Company in exchange for control 
of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet 
the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets (or disposal groups) that 
are classified as held for resale in accordance with IFRS 5 (Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations), which are recognised and measured 
at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the
Company’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised. If, after reassessment, the Company’s interest 
in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised
immediately in profit or loss.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minority’s proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities recognised.
Revenue recognition
1) Revenue Revenue represents the amounts, excluding VAT and similar sales-related taxes, receivable by the Company for goods and services supplied 
to outside customers in the ordinary course of business. Revenue is recognised when persuasive evidence of an arrangement with a customer exists,
products have been delivered or services have been rendered and collectability is reasonably assured.
Revenue on long-term contracts is recognised under the percentage to completion method of accounting and is calculated based on the ratio of costs incurred
to date compared with the total expected costs for that contract.
2) Interest income Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues by reference to the effective yield on the asset.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after restructuring costs but before investment income and finance cost.
Income tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the
extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the tax payable on the taxable income for the year and is calculated using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax
payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on differences between the carrying values of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used 
in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax arising from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination,
that affects neither the taxable nor accounting profit is not recognised. 48 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Deferred tax is provided in respect of the distribution of overseas retained earnings by subsidiaries to the extent that the subsidiary, at the balance sheet date,
has entered into a binding agreement to do so.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that there will be future taxable profits available to offset it and is reduced to the extent
that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse based on tax
rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currencies
1) Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions. Monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate prevailing at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Gains and losses resulting from the settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies are recognised in the income statement.
2) Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates prevailing at 
the balance sheet date. Income statements of foreign entities are translated to sterling at the average exchange rates for the year, approximating the foreign
exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Exchange differences arising from the translation of shareholders’ equity to sterling at year-end
exchange rates are taken to the translation reserve.These differences are recognised as income or expense on disposal of the related subsidiary.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging As permitted by IFRS 1, the Company has elected to apply IAS 32 (Financial Instruments: Disclosure 
and Presentation) and IAS 39 (Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement) prospectively from 1 April 2005. As a result, the relevant comparative
information for the year ended 31 March 2005 does not reflect the impact of these standards and is accounted for in accordance with UK GAAP .
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage operational exposures to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.The Company’s policy 
prohibits the use of derivatives for speculation.The Company does not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes.
From 1 April 2005, derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date. Derivative
financial instruments consist mainly of currency forwards and interest rate swaps. Hedge accounting is applied to derivative financial instruments that are
effective in offsetting the changes in fair value of the hedged items.The effectiveness of such hedges is verified at regular intervals. Under hedge accounting 
of financial assets or liabilities changes in fair value of the financial derivative are recognised in the income statement where they are matched with changes 
in the fair value of the hedged item which are also recognised in the income statement.
Cash flow hedges are entered into where a derivative financial instrument is used to hedge the currency risks of anticipated future export sales, cash flow 
risks of anticipated future purchases and the cash flow risk from changes in interest rates.The effective part of the changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 
are recognised in equity, while any ineffective part is recognised immediately in the income statement.When the firm commitment or forecasted transaction
results in recognition of an asset or liability, the cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial measurement of that asset or liability.
Otherwise the cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement at the same time as the hedged transaction.
When a hedging instrument or hedge relationship is terminated but the hedged transaction still is expected to occur, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss 
(at that point) remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer
probable, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement immediately. Derivatives embedded in other financial
instruments or non-derivative host contracts are recognised separately as derivative financial instruments where their risks and characteristics are not closely
related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not stated at its fair value with changes in its fair value recognised in the income statement.
Employee benefits
1) Post-employment benefits Most Group undertakings have pension or retirement benefit arrangements.These vary but are appropriate to the legal
requirements and local practices of the countries concerned.
Contributions to defined contribution plans are charged as an expense as they fall due. For defined benefit plans, pension charges are determined separately 
for each plan using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at the balance sheet date.The amounts charged to the income
statement consist of current service costs, interest costs, the expected returns on plan assets and past service costs. Past service costs are recognised
immediately where they have already vested and over the average period until they vest where they have not.
The Company has adopted the amendments to IAS 19 issued in December 2004 which are expected to be endorsed by the European Union. Accordingly
amounts recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense represent actuarial gains and losses arising from differences between actuarial
assumptions used in previous valuations and the actual outcome and changes in actuarial assumptions.
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH ANNUAL REPORT 2006 49
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Pension obligations recognised in the balance sheet represent the present value of defined benefit obligations adjusted for any past service costs not yet
recognised and the fair value of any plan assets.
2) Share-based payments The Company operates share option programmes to allow employees to acquire shares in the Company at a price fixed at the 
time of the award.The Company also operates share award programmes which grant shares to certain employees.These programmes are subject to both
market related and non-market related vesting conditions. For grants made after 7 November 2002 and remaining unvested at 1 January 2005 these awards 
are measured at their fair value at the date of grant.This fair value is then charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual forfeiture during the vesting period due to failure to satisfy service conditions or non-market performance
conditions.This fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Company’s share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired
subsidiary at the date of acquisition.This goodwill is carried in the balance sheet and is reviewed annually for impairment. Any impairment is recognised in the
income statement and will not be subsequently reversed.
Goodwill is expressed in the currency of the subsidiary to which it relates and is translated to sterling using the year-end exchange rate. Goodwill arising on
acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the UK GAAP amounts. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998
has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit and loss on disposal.
Other intangible assets
1) Research and development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and
understanding, is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the period in which it is incurred except where it relates to the
development of a new or significantly improved product or process that is technically and commercially feasible, where the Company has sufficient resources 
to complete the development and where the related costs can be reliably measured.
Expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads. Capitalised development expenditure is stated
at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
2) Computer software Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant or equipment is recognised separately as an asset and is stated at cost
less subsequent amortisation.
3) Other intangible assets Other intangible assets, acquired by the Company, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation Intangible assets are amortised using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives.The rates generally used are:
Computer software Three to seven years
Other Two to ten years
Property, plant and equipment With the exception of certain freehold properties, property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and any recognised impairment losses. Assets under construction are not depreciated. Certain of the Company’s freehold properties were
revalued in 1993.These properties are held at this valuation plus any subsequent capital expenditure and less cumulative depreciation. In accordance with 
IAS 16 (Property Plant and Equipment), no further valuations will be carried out.
Depreciation is charged on the straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets.The rates generally in use are as follows:
Freehold land Nil
Freehold buildings 2% to 5%
Leasehold buildings 2% to 5% (or over remaining life of lease if shorter)
Plant, machinery and other equipment 5% to 33%
Depreciation is calculated on the cost together with subsequent additions at cost. Under UK GAAP , certain assets were revalued in 1993 and have been
deemed at cost on transition to IFRS.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned assets.
Gains/losses on disposal of an asset represent the difference between sales proceeds and the net carrying amount. 50 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Investments Equity investments are initially recognised at cost including transaction costs, classified as held for resale and subsequently measured at reporting
dates at their fair value. Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of assets held for sale are directly recognised in equity until such asset is disposed of,
at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the net profit or loss for the period. Impairment losses are recognised 
in the income statement if there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
Impairment Acquired goodwill is tested annually for impairment.The carrying amounts of the Company’s other assets are reviewed at each balance sheet
date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. An impairment loss 
is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the
income statement unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment is recognised as a revaluation decrease.
1) Calculation of the recoverable amount The recoverable amount is the greater of the net selling price and the value in use. In assessing the value in use,
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined 
for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
2) Reversal of impairment With the exception of acquisition goodwill, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to
determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount
that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is generally determined on a first-in first-out basis and in the case of
products manufactured by the Group, consists of direct material and labour costs together with related factory overheads.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are stated at their fair value by reference to invoiced amount less an allowance for doubtful accounts. An allowance 
for doubtful accounts is recognised when it becomes likely that the originally invoiced amount is not fully realisable.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits available on demand and other short-term highly liquid investments
with a maturity on acquisition of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no
right of offset with cash balances.
Trade payables Trade payables are stated at fair value.
Borrowing Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recognised initially at cost, less attributable transaction costs. Borrowing costs including premiums payable
on settlement are recognised in the income statement on the accruals basis.
Equity Equity is recorded in the balance sheet at the proceeds received less transaction costs.
Leasing Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Company assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance
leases. Assets held under finance leases are included within property, plant and equipment, and are measured at the lower of fair value and the estimated
present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.The corresponding liability to 
the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Interest is charged to the income statement as a finance charge over the lease period.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and a reliable estimate of the
amount of this obligation can be made.
1) Warranty Provision for warranty costs are recognised at the date of sale to reflect the likely costs of meeting such obligations.
2) Restructuring Provision for restructuring is recognised when the Company has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has
either commenced or has been announced publicly.
3) Onerous contracts A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Company from a contract are lower 
than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH ANNUAL REPORT 2006 51
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Assets held for sale and discontinued operations Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered by sale rather than by
continuing use in the business. Such assets must be available for immediate sale in their present condition, management must be committed to and have initiated
a plan to sell the asset which, when initiated, was expected to result in a completed sale within 12 months.
An extension of the period required to complete the sale does not preclude the asset from being classified as held for sale, provided the delay was for reasons
beyond the Group’s control and management remains committed to its plan to sell the asset. Assets that are classified as held for sale are measured at the
lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
A discontinued operation is a component of an entity that has either been disposed of, or satisfies the criteria to be classified as held for sale, and represents 
a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or
geographical area of operations or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to disposal.
3 REVENUE
2006 2005
Continuing Discontinued T otal Continuing Discontinued T otal
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Sale of goods 119,519 2,083 121,602 106,118 12,466 118,584
Revenue from services 59,723 213 59,936 45,600 821 46,421
179,242 2,296 181,538 151,718 13,287 165,005
Investment income 1,728 – 1,728 1,490 – 1,490
180,970 2,296 183,266 153,208 13,287 166,495
4 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION
The Company derives its revenue and profits from a single class of business, power protection.
Turnover, net assets and profit by source
2006
Continuing Discontinued Total Inter-segment Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue
Europe 147,975 2,296 150,271 (6,692) 143,579
Americas 26,547 – 26,547 (992) 25,555
Asia and Australasia 12,425 – 12,425 (21) 12,404
Total sales 186,947 2,296 189,243 (7,705) 181,538
Inter-segment revenue (7,705) – (7,705) 7,705 –
179,242 2,296 181,538 – 181,538
2005
Continuing Discontinued Total Inter-segment Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue
Europe 125,542 11,310 136,852 (5,888) 130,964
Americas 22,694 – 22,694 (818) 21,876
Asia and Australasia 10,199 1,977 12,176 (11) 12,165
Total sales 158,435 13,287 171,722 (6,717) 165,005
Inter-segment revenue (6,717) – (6,717) 6,717 –
151,718 13,287 165,005 – 165,005 52 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
4 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED
2006 2005
Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Operating profit 
Europe 17,594 (292) 17,302 10,012 (418) 9,420
Americas 2,685 – 2,685 1,460 – 1,460
Asia and Australasia 799 – 799 187 (753) (392)
21,078 (292) 20,786 11,659 (1,171) 10,488
Corporate and other (3,687) – (3,687) (3,601) – (3,601)
Total operating profit 17,391 (292) 17,099 8,058 (1,171) 6,887
Profit/(loss) on discontinuance of operations –5252 – (291) (291)
Investment income 1,728 – 1,728 1,490 – 1,490
Finance costs (3,581) (16) (3,597) (2,657) (126) (2,783)
Profit before tax 15,538 (256) 15,282 6,891 (1,588) 5,303
Depreciation
Europe 2,008 77 2,085 1,851 311 2,162
Americas 111 – 111 129 – 129
Asia and Australasia 187 – 187 220 – 220
Unallocated 394 – 394 215 – 215
T otal 2,700 77 2,777 2,415 311 2,726
Amortisation of intangibles
Europe (including amortisation of acquired intangibles of £91,000 (2005: £nil)) 427 – 427 383 – 383
Americas 9–9 8–8
Asia and Australasia 6 – 6 23 – 23
T otal 442 – 442 414 – 414
Capital expenditure including other intangible additions
Europe 1,988 23 2,011 4,803 652 5,455
Americas 137 – 137 53 – 53
Asia and Australasia 406 – 406 422 – 422
Unallocated 96 – 96 405 – 405
T otal 2,627 23 2,650 5,683 652 6,335
T otal assets
Europe 124,634 – 124,634 107,759 9,975 117,734
Americas 6,245 – 6,245 4,173 – 4,173
Asia and Australasia 7,458 – 7,458 7,920 – 7,920
Total reporting segments 138,337 – 138,337 119,852 9,975 129,827
Unallocated 45,540 – 45,540 31,176 – 31,176
T otal 183,877 – 183,877 151,028 9,975 161,003
T otal liabilities
Europe 61,570 – 61,570 50,019 5,195 55,214
Americas 4,804 – 4,804 3,602 – 3,602
Asia and Australasia 7,539 – 7,539 7,623 – 7,623
Total reporting segments 73,913 – 73,913 61,244 5,195 66,439
Unallocated 51,992 – 51,992 46,900 – 46,900
T otal 125,905 – 125,905 108,144 5,195 113,339
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH ANNUAL REPORT 2006 53
4 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED
Third-party turnover by market destination
2006 2005
£000 % £000 %
Europe 121,339 68 104,680 69
Americas 28,583 16 23,530 16
Asia and Australasia 18,419 10 15,531 10
Africa and Middle East 10,901 6 7,977 5
179,242 100 151,718 100
Discontinued operations made sales to Europe of £2.2 million (2005: £7.7 million), the Americas £nil (2005: £1.2 million),Asia and Australasia £nil (2005: £2.0 million)
and Africa £0.1 million (2005: £2.4 million).
5 RESTRUCTURING COSTS
2006 2005
£000 £000
Included in continuing profit from operations: – (3,195)
Restructuring costs in continuing operations relate mainly to the restructuring of manufacturing operations in Germany and other overheads reductions and
comprise payments and provisions for redundancy and asset write downs.
6 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
2006 2005
£000 £000
Operating profit is stated after charging the following:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,659 2,680
Amortisation of intangibles – computer software 351 414
– acquired intangibles 91 –
Audit fees – ongoing 321 307
– interim review 49 –
– IFRS conversion – 95
Costs of inventory recognised as an expense 73,235 63,517
Net foreign exchange gains 151 176
Research and development expenditure 4,527 4,233
Fees paid to Deloitte & Touche LLP for non-audit but related advisory services to the Company and its subsidiary undertakings amounted to £19,000 
(2005: £7,000).These fees are in respect of tax and accountancy advice. All such fees must be reported to the Audit Committee and prior approval is required
from the Chairman of the Audit Committee for any projects above specified limits. 54 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
7 FINANCE INCOME AND EXPENSE
2006 2005
Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Investment income
Interest on short-term deposits 304 – 304 174 – 174
Expected return on post-employment plan assets 1,424 – 1,424 1,316 – 1,316
1,728 – 1,728 1,490 – 1,490
Finance cost
Interest on loans 1,773 – 1,773 962 – 962
Interest on short-term borrowing and other financing costs 250 8 258 296 95 391
Interest on finance lease obligations 48 12 43135
Interest on post-employment plan liabilities 1,554 – 1,554 1,395 – 1,395
Finance cost 3,581 16 3,597 2,657 126 2,783
8 TAXATION
2006 2005
Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Current tax:
UK corporation tax at statutory rate 720 – 720 189 – 189
Double taxation relief ––– (148) – (148)
720 – 720 41 –41
Foreign tax 2,474 – 2,474 2,201 33 2,234
Adjustment in respect of prior years 245 – 245 (194) – (194)
Current taxation 3,439 – 3,439 2,048 33 2,081
Deferred taxation (note 24)
Origination and reversal of timing differences – trading
– current year 1,054 – 1,054 510 – 510
– prior year (270) – (270) (447) – (447)
Total deferred tax 784 – 784 63 – 63
T otal tax expense 4,223 – 4,223 2,111 33 2,144
The table below reconciles the total tax expense with the UK corporation tax rate:
2006 2005
£000 £000
Profit before tax 15,538 6,891
Tax on profit arrived at by applying the standard rate of UK tax (30%) 4,661 2,067
Differences arising on overseas earnings – trading 942 677
Expenses not allowable for tax (27) 624
Overseas losses not tax relieved 130 422
Brought forward overseas losses utilised (923) (316)
Tax overprovided in prior years (25) (641)
Other differences (535) (689)
T otal tax expense 4,223 2,144
ACT written off in previous years amounting to £9,183,000 (2005: £9,183,000) is available to reduce taxation on trading profits in future years.There was no
utilisation of ACT in the year (2005: £nil).
The foreign tax charge includes tax withheld from remittances to the UK of £47,000 (2005: £104,000).
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH ANNUAL REPORT 2006 55
9 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
During the last financial year the Company decided to exit its Telecom Power Systems businesses.TPS China was closed with effect from 31 March 2005, and
the Company sold its remaining Telecom Power Systems business, Chloride Telecom Systems, France, in July 2005.The results of the discontinued operations,
which have been included in the consolidated income statement were as follows:
2006 2005
£000 £000
Revenue 2,296 13,287
Operating loss before restructuring (292) (867)
Restructuring costs – (304)
Operating loss (292) (1,171)
Profit/(loss) on sale/closure of operations 52 (2,267)
Release of disposal provision no longer required – 1,976
Finance costs (16) (126)
Loss before tax for the period (256) (1,588)
Tax – 33
Loss for the period from discontinued operations (256) (1,555)
During the year, Chloride Telecom Systems, France utilised £241,000 (2005: £206,000) of the Group’s net operating cash flows, paid £74,000 (2005: £303,000) 
in respect of investing activities and paid £9,000 (2005: £37,000) in respect of financing activities.
10  DIVIDENDS
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:
2006 2005
£000 £000
Final dividend for year ended 31 March 2005 of 1.00p (2005: 0.85p) per share 2,377 2,018
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2006 of 1.00p (2005: 0.85p) per share 2,400 2,018
4,777 4,036
Proposed dividend for the year ended 31 March 2006 of 1.25p (2005: 1.00p) per share 3,008 2,377
The proposed dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial
statements.
The trustees of the Chloride Group Employee Benefit Trust have substantially waived their rights to receive dividends. Accordingly the amounts shown above
for 2006 are net of dividends of £192,000 (2005: £197,000). 56 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
11  EARNINGS PER SHARE
a) Basic and adjusted EPS – continuing operations
The reconciliation between basic and adjusted EPS, and between the earnings figures used in calculating them, is as follows:
2006 2005
Earnings EPS Earnings EPS
£000 p £000 p
Basic 11,315 4.73 4,780 2.01
Restructuring costs –– 3,195 –
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 91 – ––
Related tax –– (389) –
Adjusted 11,406 4.77 7,586 3.19
b) Diluted EPS – continuing operations
Diluted EPS has been calculated based on the basic and adjusted earnings amounts above.The diluted and diluted adjusted earnings are set out below:
2006 2005
p p
Diluted 4.68 2.01
Diluted adjusted 4.71 3.19
A reconciliation between the shares used in calculating basic and diluted EPS is as follows:
2006 2005
million million
Average shares used in basic EPS calculation 239.3 237.5
Dilutive share options outstanding 2.6 0.6
Shares used in diluted EPS calculation 241.9 238.1
c) Basic and adjusted EPS – total Group
The reconciliation between basic and adjusted EPS, and between the earnings figures used in calculating them, is as follows:
2006 2005
Earnings EPS Earnings EPS
£000 p £000 p
Basic 11,059 4.63 3,225 1.36
Restructuring costs –– 3,195 –
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 91 – ––
Related tax –– (389) –
Adjusted 11,150 4.67 6,031 2.54
d) Diluted EPS – total Group
Diluted EPS has been calculated based on the basic and adjusted earnings amounts above.The diluted and diluted adjusted earnings are set out below:
2006 2005
p p
Diluted 4.58 1.35
Diluted adjusted 4.62 2.53
A reconciliation between the shares used in calculating basic and diluted EPS is set out under note (b) above.
The weighted average number of shares excludes shares held by the Chloride Group Employee Benefit Trust.
The directors consider that the adjusted earnings per share figures more accurately reflect the underlying performance of the business.
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH ANNUAL REPORT 2006 57
12  EMPLOYEE INFORMATION
At 31 March 2006 the total number of the Group’s employees, including executive directors, was 1,253 (2005: 1,341).The average number of persons
employed during the year is analysed below:
2006 2005
£000 £000
Europe – including 270 in the UK (2005: 164) 959 1,026
Americas 203 214
Rest of the world 99 166
1,261 1,406
Employment costs (including those relating to executive directors) were as follows:
2006 2005
£000 £000
Wages and salaries 38,452 36,597
Social security costs 7,437 8,513
Other pensions costs (see note 33) 2,284 2,197
48,173 47,307
13  GOODWILL
2006 2005
£000 £000
Cost and carrying amount:
At 1 April 31,635 35,547
Exchange differences 1,562 278
Recognised on acquisition of a subsidiary (note 29) 10,028 61
Impairment – (785)
Classified as for re-sale – (3,466)
At 31 March 2006 43,225 31,635
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually. Value in use calculations are used to calculate recoverable amount. Value in use is calculated as
the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax free cash flows of the cash generating unit in which the goodwill is contained, applying a discount
rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital of 9%.This approximates to applying a pre-tax discount rate to pre-tax cash flows.These cash flow
projections are made over a 20-year period and are consistent with approved budgets, and market growth rates projected by Frost & Sullivan over the first five
years and a growth rate in line with an inflation assumption of 2% per annum thereafter. 58 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
14 OTHER INTANGIBLES
Software Acquired
costs intangibles Total
£000 £000 £000
Cost:
At 1 April 2004 3,073 – 3,073
Additions 2,008 – 2,008
Exchange differences 81 – 81
Disposals (7) – (7)
At 1 April 2005 5,155 – 5,155
Additions 259 – 259
Acquisition of businesses – 1,026 1,026
Exchange differences 52 – 52
Disposals (570) – (570)
At 31 March 2006 4,896 1,026 5,922
Amortisation:
At 1 April 2004 2,477 – 2,477
Charge for the year 414 – 414
Exchange differences 66 – 66
Eliminated on disposal –––
At 1 April 2005 2,957 – 2,957
Charge for the year 351 91 442
Exchange differences 30 6 36
Eliminated on disposal (570) – (570)
At 31 March 2006 2,768 97 2,865
Carrying amount:
At 31 March 2005 2,198 – 2,198
At 31 March 2006 2,128 929 3,057
Acquired intangibles are stated at fair value and represent customer relationships acquired with businesses, see note 29.
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH ANNUAL REPORT 2006 59
15  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Land and Fixtures and
buildings equipment T otal
£000 £000 £000
Cost or valuation:
At 1 April 2004 13,625 18,881 32506
Additions 1,630 2,045 3,675
Exchange differences 254 245 499
Disposals (53) (1,377) (1,430)
Reclassified as held for sale (826) (1,318) (2,144)
At 1 April 2005 14,630 18,476 33,106
Additions 511 1,857 2,368
Acquisition of subsidiary – 149 149
Exchange differences 318 420 738
Disposals (70) (1,345) (1,415)
Reversal of impairment – 109 109
At 31 March 2006 15,389 19,666 35,055
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 April 2004 3,118 11,817 14,935
Charge for the year 434 1,981 2,415
Exchange differences 87 133 220
Eliminated on disposal (6) (923) (929)
Reclassified as held for sale (281) (650) (931)
At 1 April 2005 3,352 12,358 15,710
Charge for the year 448 2,252 2,700
Exchange differences 48 344 392
Eliminated on disposal (68) (1,094) (1,162)
At 31 March 2006 3,780 13,860 17,640
Carrying amount:
At 31 March 2005 11,278 6,118 17,396
At 31 March 2006 11,609 5,806 17,415
Notes
a) In the above table, the net book value for the Group includes £31,000 (2005: £43,000) in respect of tangible fixed assets held under finance leases, and the depreciation charge
for the year includes £12,000 (2005: £12,000) in respect of these assets.
b) The tangible fixed assets of the Company comprise plant and machinery, including motor vehicles and office equipment.
c) At 31 March 2006 the Company had entered into contracts to acquire £472,000 of property plant and equipment (2005: £220,000).
16  INVESTMENTS
2006 2005
£000 £000
Fair value 638 –
The Company’s investment is in 12% of the share capital of DB Power Electronics Private Limited, a leading independent power protection company in India
and is carried at fair value at the balance sheet date. 60 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
17  INVENTORIES
2006 2005
£000 £000
Raw materials and components 8,287 10,092
Work in progress 3,351 3,304
Finished goods 14,711 11,411
26,349 24,807
18 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2006 2005
£000 £000
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade debtors 58,125 47,432
Amounts provided for doubtful debts (3,595) (2,964)
54,530 44,468
Other receivables 7,940 6,418
Prepayments and accrued income 1,071 649
63,541 51,535
Amounts due after one year
Other receivables 1,566 1,439
65,107 52,974
The directors consider that the carrying value of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables and investments.
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables.
An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability
of the cash flows.
Bank balances and cash comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.The carrying amount
of these assets approximates their fair value.The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks
with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
19  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2006 2005
£000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 21,612 17,057
Short-term deposits 453 29
Cash and cash equivalents per cash flow statement 22,065 17,086
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH ANNUAL REPORT 2006 61
20 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2006 2005
£000 £000
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade payables 31,490 26,869
Value added, payroll and other taxes 6,431 4,546
Other creditors 9,363 6,588
Accruals 13,110 10,897
60,394 48,900
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Other payables 42 37
21  BORROWINGS
2006 2005
£000 £000
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts 96 295
Other 13,195 17,739
13,291 18,034
Non-current liabilities
Other loans 25,627 14,134
Of the non-current loans shown above £5.2 million is repayable within one to two years (2005: £13.6 million), £20.0 million is repayable within two to 
three years (2005: £0.2 million), £0.2 million is repayable within three to four years (2005: £0.2 million), £0.2 million is repayable within four to five years 
(2005: £0.1 million) and £nil over five years (2005: £0.1 million).These amounts are stated at their full value.
Included in the above is a loan of £1.1 million (2005: £1.3 million) at a fixed rate of interest of 2.3% per annum for five years. All other borrowings are 
at floating rates.
Analysis of borrowings by currency:
Sterling Euro US dollar Other Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Year ended March 2006
Bank overdrafts ––– 96 96
Other loans 16,400 15,526 2,594 4,302 38,822
16,400 15,526 2,594 4,398 38,918
Year ended March 2005
Bank overdrafts – 258 – 37 295
Other loans 6,500 19,864 2,407 3,102 31,873
6,500 20,122 2,407 3,139 32,168
The weighted average interest rate on the borrowings above was 4.89% (2005: 3.88%).
Borrowings and cash balances have been offset where the legal right of offset exists.The Company’s articles of association limit the external borrowings of the
Company and its subsidiary undertakings to an amount equal to twice the share capital and consolidated reserves.
At 31 March 2006 the Group had £72.0 million (including a £2.0 million overdraft facility) of committed facilities (2005: £45.0 million), of which £38.6 million
(2005: £19.0 million) was unutilised. Of this amount, £10.0 million expires within one year (2005: £15.0 million), £7.0 million expires within one to two years
(2005: £30.0 million) and £55.0 million (2005: £nil) expires after two years. 62 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
22  OBLIGATIONS UNDER FINANCE LEASES
Present value of
Minimum lease minimum lease
payments payments
2006 2005 2006 2005
£000 £000 £000 £000
Amounts payable under finance leases:
Within one year 38 8 35 7
Over one and under five years 41 15 37 12
Over five years – – – –
79 23 72 19
Less: future finance charges (7) (4) – –
Present value of lease charges 72 19 72 19
Amounts shown in current liabilities 35 7
Amounts shown in long-term liabilities 37 12
23  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Currency derivatives
The Company uses forward currency contracts to hedge future transactions and cashflows.These contracts are denominated in the currencies of the Company’s
principal markets.At the balance sheet date the total notional amount committed under these contracts was:
2006 2005
£000 £000
Forward foreign exchange contracts 23,656 18,900
These contracts have been entered into to cover actual and forecast exposures arising over the next 12 months.
At 31 March the total fair value of these contracts based on the market values of equivalent contracts at the balance sheet date was £321,000 (2005: £(141,000)):
2006
£000
Recognised in trade and other receivables 14
Recognised in trade and other payables 65
Deferred to equity 199
Non-hedged derivative recognised in income 43
T otal 321
Amounts of £516,000 were transferred to the income statement during the period.
The Company does not currently designate its foreign currency debt as a hedging instrument for the purposes of hedging the translation of overseas operations.
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH ANNUAL REPORT 2006 63
24  DEFERRED TAX
Deferred tax comprises:
At 1 April Recognised Recognised At 1 April Recognised Recognised At 31 March
2004 in income in equity 2005 in income in equity 2006
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Restructuring provisions – (248) – (248) 248 – –
Post-retirement benefits (2,678) (33) 510 (2,201) 1,218 (204) (1,187)
Other provisions (826) (294) – (1,120) (1,697) (354) (3,171)
Accelerated tax depreciation (80) 430 – 350 (260) – 90
Intangibles 404 545 – 949 641 – 1,590
Tax losses (1,382) (337) – (1,719) 634 – (1,085)
(4,562) 63 510 (3,989) 784 (558) (3,763)
2006 2005
£000 £000
Deferred tax liabilities 1,937 943
Deferred tax assets (5,700) (4,932)
(3,763) (3,989)
The Company has tax losses amounting to approximately £19.0 million (2005: £20.0 million) of which £3.7 million (2005: £4.2 million) has been taken into account
in calculating deferred tax and the balance relates to losses in countries where we cannot with reasonable certainty foresee the timing of their utilisation.
25  PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES
Restructuring Other T otal
£000 £000 £000
At 1 April 2,052 4,452 6,504
Exchange rate adjustments 12 61 73
Profit and loss account 175 857 1,032
Acquired with subsidiary 394 95 489
Utilised in the year (1,501) (133) (1,634)
At 31 March 1,132 5,332 6,464
Current 845 3,431 4,276
Non-current 287 1,901 2,188
Other provisions mainly relate to product warranty, and contractual and other obligations such as vacant property and routine legal matters for continuing and
disposed businesses.The majority of non-current property provisions are expected to reverse within three years
26  SHARE CAPITAL
2006 2005
£000 £000
Authorised:
Equity
Ordinary shares of 25p each: 329,752,000 (2005: 329,752,000) 82,438 82,438
82,438 82,438
Issued:
Equity
Ordinary shares of 25p each 249,014,900 (2005: 248,731,144) 62,248 62,183
62,248 62,183 64 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
26  SHARE CAPITAL CONTINUED
The increase in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company is due to the exercise during the year of executive and savings-related share options over 
a total of 283,756 shares.
As at 31 March 2006, there were 18,519,566 ordinary shares (2005: 19,520,139) under option under executive share option schemes, 1,794,332 (2005: 1,628,342)
under option under the Company’s savings-related share option scheme and 1,283,613 (2005: 981,571) under option under the Company’s Performance 
Share Plan.
The following table shows aggregate option entitlements under the executive share option schemes outstanding at 31 March 2006. It also includes information
as to whether performance measures are applicable and, if so, whether they were met as at 31 March 2006.
Status of
Number of shares performance measure(s)
Date of grant Option price 31 March 2006 31 March 2005 as at 31 March 2006
1994 Scheme
20.12.95 25p – 99,000 met
30.07.97 33p 30,000 115,000 met
28.11.97 39p – 34,000 met
26.06.98 48.75p 70,500 103,500 met
02.12.98 49.5p 50,000 50,000 met
26.07.99 78.5p 61,500 61,500 under measurement
29.10.99 80.25p 55,000 55,000 under measurement
31.05.00 135.5p 33,874 56,014 under measurement
31.10.00 206.0p 61,047 61,047 under measurement
1996 Scheme
29.08.96 35p 80,000 80,000 met
30.07.97 33p 75,000 75,000 met
28.11.97 39p 91,000 91,000 met
26.06.98 48.75p 784,500 1,190,500 met
02.12.98 49.5p 51,000 111,000 met
05.01.99 58.25p 250,000 250,000 under measurement
26.07.99 78.5p 2,010,500 2,198,500 under measurement
29.10.99 80.25p 550,000 550,000 under measurement
30.05.00 135.5p 2,341,126 2,712,986 under measurement
30.10.00 206.0p 293,953 308,953 under measurement
2001 Scheme
13.08.01 70p 2,024,000 2,274,000 under measurement
13.08.01 70.52p 130,000 130,000 under measurement
06.06.02 44.5p 1,560,000 2,940,000 met
03.07.02 42p 205,000 275,000 met
05.06.03 35p 2,745,000 2,975,000 under measurement
27.06.03 43p 170,000 380,000 under measurement
27.07.04 45.75p 1,855,294 2,086,695 under measurement
23.08.04 44p 70,385 157,398 under measurement
25.11.04 53p 99,046 99,046 under measurement
01.06.05 65.875p 2,537,178 – under measurement
28.06.05 64p 189,663 – under measurement
22.11.05 92.125p 45,000 – under measurement
18,519,566 19,520,139
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH ANNUAL REPORT 2006 65
26  SHARE CAPITAL CONTINUED
The following table shows entitlements outstanding under the savings-related share option scheme as at 31 March 2006.
Three, five or Number of shares
seven year options Date of grant Option price 31 March 2006 31 March 2005 Normal exercise period
1997 Scheme
Seven year 17.07.98 39p – 7,000 01.10.05 to 31.03.06
Seven year 25.06.99 59.75p 101,484 101,484 01.10.06 to 31.03.07
Five year 28.06.00 119.25p – 11,603 01.10.05 to 31.03.06
Five year 29.06.01 82.75p 10,196 10,196 01.10.06 to 31.03.07
Three year 03.07.02 37.5p – 166,383 01.10.05 to 31.03.06
Five year 03.07.02 37.5p 155,347 177,413 01.10.07 to 31.03.08
Seven year 03.07.02 37.5p 95,865 95,865 01.10.09 to 31.03.10
Three year 03.07.03 30.5p 397,281 559,225 01.10.06 to 31.03.07
Five year 03.07.03 30.5p 151,414 172,299 01.10.08 to 31.03.09
Seven year 03.07.03 30.5p 23,270 34,351 01.10.10 to 31.03.11
Three year 08.07.04 38.0p 120,535 135,911 01.10.07 to 31.03.08
Five year 08.07.04 38.0p 148,007 156,612 01.10.09 to 31.03.10
Three year 16.12.05 74.54p 321,832 – 01.02.09 to 31.07.09
Five year 16.12.05 74.54p 269,101 – 01.02.11 to 31.07.11
1,794,332 1,628,342
The following table shows aggregate option entitlements under the Performance Share Plan outstanding at 31 March 2006. It also includes information as to
whether performance measures are applicable and, if so, whether they have yet been met.
Status of
Number of shares performance measure(s)
Date of grant 31 March 2006 31 March 2005 as at 31 March 2006
27.07.04 802,649 905,849 under measurement
23.08.04 12,693 26,199 under measurement
25.11.04 49,523 49,523 under measurement
01.06.05 387,137 – under measurement
28.06.05 31,611 – under measurement
1,283,613 981,571 66 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
27  RESERVES
Share Own Hedging Exchange Retained
premium shares reserve reserve earnings T otal
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 April 2004 2,979 (10,500) – – (7,943) (15,464)
Exchange rate adjustments – – – 564 – 564
Profit for the year – – – – 3,225 3,225
Dividends paid – – – – (4,036) (4,036)
Premium on shares issued 8 – – – – 8
Movements in respect of own shares – 105 – – – 105
Share-based payments – – – – 308 308
Actuarial gain – – – – 1,072 1,072
Tax on items recognised in equity – – – – (301) (301)
At 31 March 2005 2,987 (10,395) – 564 (7,675) (14,519)
Transitional IAS 39 adjustment – – (141) – – (141)
At 1 April 2005 2,987 (10,395) (141) 564 (7,675) (14,660)
Exchange rate adjustments – – 856 1,028 – 1,884
Profit/(loss) for the year – – (516) – 11,059 10,543
Dividends paid – – – – (4,777) (4,777)
Premium on shares issued 27 – – – – 27
Movements in respect of own shares – 1,245 – – – 1,245
Share-based payments – – – – 568 568
Actuarial gain – – – – 336 336
Tax on items recognised in equity – – – – 558 558
At 31 March 2006 3,014 (9,150) 199 1,592 69 (4,276)
“Own shares” represent 8,306,086 (2005: 10,938,043) ordinary shares in the Company held by the Chloride Group Employee Benefit Trust as noted in the
directors’ report on page 28, having a market value at 31 March 2006 of £8.8 million (2005: £6.7 million).The Trust holds these shares to meet long-term
commitments in relation to employee share plans.
As stated in note 2, IAS 32 (Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation), and IAS 39 (Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement) have been
applied with effect from 1 April 2005. As a result of these standards, a number of financial instruments have been recognised or revalued in the opening balance
sheet at 1 April 2005 decreasing reserves by £0.1 million.
The cumulative amount of goodwill resulting from acquisitions which has been written off to reserves on consolidation is £26.3 million (2005: £26.3 million).
The retained profits of foreign subsidiary undertakings, if distributed as dividends, would be liable to UK and/or foreign taxes and subject to double tax relief.
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH ANNUAL REPORT 2006 67
28  DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARY
As discussed in note 9, on 12 July 2005 the Company disposed of its interest in Chloride Telecom Systems.The results of that company for the current financial
year to the date of disposal are also disclosed in note 9.The net assets at the disposal date were as follows:
At 12 July 2005
£000
Property, plant and equipment 1,458
Inventories 1,703
Trade and other receivables 2,473
Post-employment benefits (176)
Provisions (223)
Trade and other payables (3,079)
Bank and other loans (977)
Obligations under finance leases (371)
Attributable goodwill 3,404
4,212
Foreign exchange translation gain recycled to the income statement 52
Accrual for disposal expenses 383
Gain on disposal 52
4,699
Satisfied by: cash consideration 4,802
Deal expenses (103)
4,699
Net cash arising on disposal:
Net cash consideration (net of expenses) 4,699
Overdrafts less cash disposed of 292
4,991
In the 31 March 2005 balance sheet, the gross assets of £9,975,000 and liabilities of £5,195,000 of this company were shown as assets and liabilities held for sale. 68 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
29 ACQUISITIONS
a) On 15 April 2005 the Company acquired the entire share capital of Harath Engineering Services Limited, a leading supplier of critical power protection
services in the UK.The purchase has given rise to acquisition goodwill of £10.0 million and other intangibles (customer lists) of £0.3 million.
Accounting Fair value
Book value policy changes adjustments Fair value
Net assets acquired £000 £000 £000 £000
Property plant and equipment 241 – (93) 148
Other intangible assets – customer lists – – 311 311
Inventories 934 – (250) 684
Trade and other receivables 2,874 – (38) 2,836
Cash and cash equivalents 144 – – 144
Trade creditors and other payables (2,757) – (98) (2,855)
Deferred revenue accrual – (411) – (411)
Current taxation (452) – – (452)
Provisions – – (489) (489)
984 (411) (657) (84)
Goodwill 10,028
Total consideration 9,944
Satisfied by:
Cash 9,807
Directly attributable costs 137
9,944
Less: cash acquired (144)
Cash flow on acquisition 9,800
Goodwill substantially represents the expertise and technical knowledge of the company’s staff together with synergistic benefits.
Since its acquisition Harath has been fully integrated with the Company’s existing UK operations and consequently it is not practicable to disclose the subsequent
trading results.
b) On 1 February 2006 the Company acquired the unincorporated business of CIME, a power protection distributor based in the UAE.The net assets acquired
represent the value of customer relationships which are held in the balance sheet at their fair value of £0.7 million.
30  OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS
2006 2005
£000 £000
Operating lease payments recognised as an expense in the year 2,733 2,718
Minimum lease payments on leases falling due
Within one year 1,352 1,116
In the second to fifth years 2,424 1,779
After five years 5,548 6,602
9,324 9,547
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH ANNUAL REPORT 2006 69
31 ANALYSIS OF NET DEBT
Exchange At
At 1 April Disposal of translation 31 March
2005 Cash flow subsidiary difference 2006
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents 17,171 4,972 – (78) 22,065
Bank overdrafts (796) 709 – (9) (96)
16,375 5,681 – (87) 21,969
Debt due within one year (17,850) 5,068 – (413) (13,195)
Debt due after more than one year (14,134) (11,487) – (6) (25,627)
Discounted trade bills (275) (66) 341 – –
Finance lease obligations (411) (33) 371 1 (72)
Net debt (16,295) (837) 712 (505) (16,925)
32  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Trading transactions 
The Company makes a service charge to the UK pension scheme in respect of pensions administration, office accommodation and related service costs.The total
service charge for the year was £80,000 (2005: £102,000).
At 31 March 2006 the Company had receivable and payable balances with its two non-wholly owned subsidiaries, Chloride Masterguard Power Systems Limited
and Chloride Koexa SA, of £644,000 (2005: £489,000) and £147,000 (2005: £152,000) respectively. During the year these companies purchased goods from
fellow subsidiaries to the value of £909,000 (2005: £1,212,000).
At 31 March 2006, the Company had receivables with DB Power Electronics Private Ltd in India (in which the Company has a 12% stake) in the amount 
of £67,000 (2005: £nil). During the year this company purchased £166,000 of goods from the Company (2005: £nil).
Remuneration of key management (the executive directors)
The remuneration of the directors who are the key management personnel of the Company is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Committee
report on page 34. In addition the share-based payment charge arising in relation to key management was £129,000 (2005: £59,000).
33  POST -RETIREMENT BENEFITS
The Company has a number of pension or retirement benefit arrangements, which are established to meet local legal requirements and practices in the
countries in which it operates.These arrangements comprise both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.The Company has provided £6.9 million
(2005: £10.5 million) in respect of its obligations under these arrangements.
The principal defined benefit schemes are operated in the UK and Germany, and in Italy the Company participates in the statutory Trattamento a Fine
Rapporto (TFR) scheme.The bases of these schemes are as follows:
UK In the UK the Company operates a hybrid pension scheme with both defined benefit and defined contribution sections (the Chloride 1996 Scheme).
The defined benefit section of the Chloride 1996 Scheme has been closed to new members since 1 April 1998. Funding is set after formal funding valuations
carried out every three years by independent actuaries. Following the last such valuation which was carried out as of 31 March 2005 the Company committed
to make a special contribution of £3.5 million, of which £1.0 million was paid in the year.The balance was paid on 7 April 2006. During the course of the year 
it was decided that the assets relating to the defined contribution element of the scheme should be formally separated from the assets of the defined benefit
section. As a result, a transfer of £2.7 million was made at the end of the year.This amount is included in benefits paid in the table below.
Germany In Germany the Company operates a defined benefit scheme, which in accordance with local practice, is unfunded. Provision for future liabilities 
is made in the balance sheet in accordance with advice given by an independent actuary.
Italy In Italy the Company participates in the statutory TFR scheme, which in accordance with local practice, is unfunded. Provision for future liabilities is made 
in the balance sheet in accordance with advice given by an independent actuary. 70 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
33  POST -RETIREMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED
Financial assumptions
2006 2005
UK Germany Italy UK Germany Italy
%%% %%%
Rate of increase in salaries 4.25 2.50 3.00 4.50 2.50 3.00
Rate of increase in pension payments 2.50 1.25 n/a 2.50 1.25 n/a
Discount rate 4.95 4.25 4.00 5.35 4.75 4.00
Inflation 2.80 1.25 2.00 2.50 1.25 2.00
The Company uses certain mortality rate assumptions when calculating scheme liabilities.These are as follows:
UK: PA92 C2020
Germany: RT 2005 G (Prof. Heubeck)
Italy: 2000 tables
The net assets/liabilities of the UK scheme and the liabilities of the German and Italian schemes at 31 March 2006 were as follows:
2006 2005
UK Germany Italy T otal UK Germany Italy T otal
Long-term expected rate of return
Equities 8.0% n/a n/a n/a 8.0% n/a n/a n/a
Fixed-rate bonds 4.5% n/a n/a n/a 4.7% n/a n/a n/a
Index-linked bonds 4.2% n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Other 4.0% n/a n/a n/a 4.0% n/a n/a n/a
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Fair value of assets
Equities 17,933 – – 17,933 14,542 – – 14,542
Fixed rate bonds 6,149 – – 6,149 5,413 – – 5,413
Index-linked bonds 1,537 – – 1,537 ––––
Other (27) – – (27) 107 – – 107
Total fair value of assets 25,592 – – 25,592 20,062 – – 20,062
Present value of scheme liabilities (26,223) (3,475) (2,195) (31,893) (24,755) (3,062) (2,102) (29,919)
Net deficit in scheme (631) (3,475) (2,195) (6,301) (4,693) (3,062) (2,102) (9,857)
Analysis of the amount charged 
to operating profit 
Current service cost 1,015 124 186 1,325 930 116 260 1,306
Credit arising on curtailment of scheme – (241) – (241) ––––
Past service cost –––– ––––
Total operating charge/(credit) 1,015 (117) 186 1,084 930 116 260 1,306
Analysis of the amount 
charged/(credited) to net 
financial income
Interest on pension liabilities 1,330 146 78 1,554 1,323 139 72 1,534
Expected return on pension scheme assets (1,424) – – (1,424) (1,316) – – (1,316)
Net financing charge (94) 146 78 130 7 139 72 218
Total charged to the income statement 921 29 264 1,214 937 255 332 1,524
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH ANNUAL REPORT 2006 71
33  POST -RETIREMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED
2006 2005
UK Germany Italy T otal UK Germany Italy T otal
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Analysis of amount charged/(credited) 
to the statement of recognised income 
and expense
Difference between expected and 
actual return on scheme assets 3,300 – – 3,300 371 – – 371
% of scheme assets 12.9% – – 12.9% 1.8% – – 1.8%
Experience (losses)/gains on scheme liabilities (2,598) (383) 17 (2,964) 869 (202) – 667
% of scheme liabilities 9.9% 11.0% 0.8% 9.3% 3.5% 6.6% – 2.2%
Net actuarial gains/(losses) 702 (383) 17 336 1,240 (202) – 1,038
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense is £1,038,000.
Movement in present value of defined 
benefit obligation during the year
Present value at 1 April 24,755 3,062 2,102 29,919 23,800 2,539 1,866 28,205
Current service cost 1,015 124 186 1,325 930 116 260 1,306
Employee contributions 307 – – 307 307 – – 307
Benefits paid (3,782) (18) (167) (3,967) (736) (31) (170) (937)
Other finance expense 1,330 146 78 1,554 1,323 139 72 1,534
Credit arising on curtailment of scheme – (241) – (241) ––––
Actuarial loss/(gain) 2,598 383 (17) 2,964 (869) 202 – (667)
Exchange – 19 13 32 – 97 74 171
Present value at 31 March 26,223 3,475 2,195 31,893 24,755 3,062 2,102 29,919
Fair value of scheme assets
At 1 April 20,062 – – 20,062 17,800 – – 17,800
Expected return on plan assets 1,424 – – 1,424 1,316 – – 1,316
Contributions – by employer 4,281 – – 4,281 1,004 – – 1,004
Contributions – by employee 307 – – 307 307 – – 307
Benefits paid (3,782) – – (3,782) (736) – – (736)
Actuarial gains 3,300 – – 3,300 371 – – 371
Scheme assets at 31 March 25,592 – – 25,592 20,062 – – 20,062
History of experience adjustments
2006 2005
£000 £000
Present value of scheme liabilities 31,892 29,919
Fair value of scheme assets 25,592 20,062
Deficit in schemes 6,300 9,857
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 2,964 (667)
Experience adjustments on scheme assets 3,300 371
Other
The Company also has post-retirement liabilities under statutory requirements in France and Turkey and has provided £0.6 million (2005: £0.6 million) in respect
of these arrangements. 72 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
34  SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Company has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 (Share-Based Payment) to all grants made after 7 November 2002 which remained unvested at 1 January
2005.Total expenses recognised in the income statement relating to share-based payment transactions were:
2006 2005
£000 £000
Charged to income statement 568 308
Fair value of share-based payment awards
The fair value of these awards has been determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.The assumptions used were as follows:
2006 2005
Risk-free interest rate 4.15% 4.55%
Dividend yield 2.82% 3.50%
Volatility 26.40% 35.70%
Expected lives of awards granted under:
Executive share option and award schemes Three years Three years
Savings-related share option schemes Three to five years Three to five years
Deferred bonus shares Two years Two years
Weighted average share price
Executive share option and award schemes 65.70p 45.96p
Savings-related share option schemes 93.18p 47.00p
Deferred bonus shares 65.88p 47.00p
Weighted average exercise price
Executive share option schemes 65.70p 45.94p
Executive share award schemes – –
Savings-related share option schemes 74.54p 38.00p
Deferred bonus shares – –
Details of share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
Executive 
share options SAYE
Weighted Weighted
exercise exercise
Number price (p) Number price (p)
At 1 April 2004 17,840,000 70.09 1,622,910 37.14
Granted 2,343,139 45.94 312,860 38.00
Exercised (377,000) 40.15 (54,720) 25.64
Lapsed (286,000) 84.85 (252,708) 44.43
At 31 March 2005 19,520,139 67.55 1,628,342 36.56
Granted 2,771,841 66.27 590,933 74.54
Exercised (2,597,119) 47.02 (283,756) 34.83
Lapsed (1,175,295) 79.09 (141,187) 40.43
At 31 March 2006 18,519,566 69.46 1,794,332 49.06
Exercisable at the end of:
31 March 2005 1,949,000 44.88 – –
31 March 2006 1,232,000 45.86 – –
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise during the year was 84.42p (2005: 51.78p).
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH ANNUAL REPORT 2006 73
34  SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED
Employee share awards
Details of employee share awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
Performance Deferred
share plan bonus shares
number number
At 1 April 2004 – 45,715
Granted 981,571 137,253
Exercised – (10,877)
Lapsed ––
At 31 March 2005 981,571 172,091
Granted 418,748 155,754
Exercised – (34,838)
Lapsed (116,706) –
At 31 March 2006 1,283,613 293,007
35  CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Contingent liabilities of the Group amounting to £9,272,000 (2005; £8,716,000) are mainly in respect of bank performance bonds, operating leases and other
contractual commitments.Those of the Company amounting to £6,247,000 (2005: £6,456,000) are mainly in respect of guarantees of leases, borrowings, bank
performance bonds and other contractual commitments of subsidiary undertakings. No losses are expected to arise.
36  EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS
These are the Company’s first consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The accounting policies starting on page 47 have been applied to the financial statements for 2006 and the comparatives for 2005.
As noted in the accounting policy for “Derivative financial instruments and hedging” the Company has elected to apply IAS 32 (Financial Instruments:
Disclosure and Presentation) and IAS 39 (Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement) prospectively from 1 April 2005, as permitted by IFRS 1.
As a result, the relevant information for the year ended 31 March 2005 does not reflect the impact of these standards and is accounted for in accordance 
with UK GAAP .
Reconciliation of equity at 31 March 2005 and 1 April 2004 (effective date of transition to IFRS)
2005 2004
T otal equity £000 £000
Total equity under UK GAAP 48,246 50,478
Adjustments to conform to IFRS
Employee benefits (7,593) (8,246)
Share based payments ––
Goodwill 2,463 –
Dividends 2,378 2,018
Other (58) (69)
Deferred taxation – on IFRS adjustments above 2,228 2,491
T otal equity under IFRS 47,664 46,672 74 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
36  EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS CONTINUED
2005
T otal profit for the year ended £000
As reported under UK GAAP 1,299
Adjustments to conform to IFRS
Employee benefits (555)
Share-based payments (165)
Goodwill 2,459
Other 38
Deferred taxation – on IFRS adjustments above 149
T otal profit under IFRS 3,225
Key changes in accounting under IFRS
The differences between UK GAAP and IFRS that have been identified as having the most significant effect on the Company’s reported results are as follows:
IFRS 3 Business Combinations Under IFRS 3, goodwill recognised in the balance sheet will no longer be amortised. Instead it will be tested for impairment at the
date of transition to IFRS and annually thereafter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
The Group has adopted the exemption under IFRS 1 from restating the goodwill arising on business combinations prior to the date of transition to IFRS.
The Group has applied IFRS 3 prospectively from IFRS transition. No significant business combinations were undertaken after the transition date to 
31 March 2005.
As a result of these changes, annual goodwill amortisation of £2.2 million is no longer recognised and the goodwill in the balance sheet of £31.6 million is now
subject to impairment review. No impairment losses have been recognised in the income statement in the period presented.
IAS 19 – Post-Employment Benefits Under UK GAAP the Company accounted for post-employment benefits under SSAP24 (Accounting for Pension Costs),
whereby the cost of providing defined benefit pensions and post-retirement healthcare benefits was charged against operating profit on a systematic basis with
surpluses and deficits arising being recognised over the expected average remaining service lives of participating employees. Disclosure of the deficit and service
cost under FRS17 has been made since 2002.
The fair value balance sheet approach under IAS 19 is similar to that under FRS 17 and hence under IFRS, the cost of defined benefit plans is recognised over
the average remaining service lives of the participating employees, but the cost recognised in each period is dependent on the change during the period in the
recognised defined benefit liability or asset.
The defined benefit liability or asset comprises the net total of the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, as adjusted for any
past service cost not recognised, less the fair value of the plan assets, if any, at the balance sheet date.
The Company has adopted the amendments to IAS 19 issued in December 2004. Accordingly, actuarial gains and losses arising from differences between
actuarial assumptions used in previous valuations and the actual outcome and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the statement of recognised
income and expense.
IFRS 2 – Share-Based Payments Under UK GAAP , the cost of awards made under the Group’s employee share schemes was based on the intrinsic value of 
the awards, with the exception of SAYE schemes for which no cost was recognised. Under IFRS, the cost of employee share schemes, including SAYE schemes,
is based on the fair value of the awards that must be assessed using an option pricing model such as Black-Scholes. Generally, the fair value of the award is
expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period due to
failure to satisfy either service conditions or non-market performance conditions, such as EPS growth targets.
As permitted by the transitional exemption available under IFRS 1, the requirements of IFRS 2 have not been applied to equity instruments granted before 
7 November 2002 and those vesting before 1 January 2005.
Taxation IAS 12 requires that deferred taxation is provided on substantially all differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities.This is wider
than under UK GAAP , which specifically does not permit the recognition of certain timing differences. Deferred tax has therefore been calculated on differences
arising from adoption of IFRS in areas such as share-based payments and post employment benefits (pensions).
Proposed dividends Under UK GAAP , proposed dividends were recognised as a liability in the period to which they related. Under IFRS, dividends are recognised
as a liability in the period in which they are declared. Net assets at 31 March 2005 increase by £2.4 million representing the reversal of the accrual for the final
dividend proposed in respect of that year.
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH ANNUAL REPORT 2006 75
FIVE YEAR SUMMARY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
As published under UK GAAP
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
Notes £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
T urnover
Continuing operations 179,242 151,718 150,564 142,837 148,967
Discontinued operations n/a n/a 2,607 130 –
T otal 179,242 151,718 153,171 142,967 148,967
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items
Continuing operations 17,482 11,253 8,611 7,149 5,040
Discontinued operations n/a n/a (217) (87) –
T otal 17,482 11,253 8,394 7,062 5,040
Goodwill amortisation (91) – (2,654) (2,587) (3,029)
Exceptional items – (3,195) – – (19,627)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before interest 17,391 8,058 5,740 4,475 (17,616)
Net interest (payable)/receivable (1,853) (1,167) (835) (725) (559)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation 15,538 6,891 4,905 3,750 (18,175)
Tax on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities (4,223) (2,111) (2,281) (1,712) (862)
Attributable to minority interests – – 353 48 (33)
Profit for the period from continuing operations 11,315 4,780 2,977 2,086 (19,070)
Loss for the period from discontinued operations (256) (1,555) –––
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 11,059 3,225 2,977 2,086 (19,070)
Capital expenditure 2,627 5,683 8,083 1,992 2,263
Assets employed
Fixed assets and investments 70,035 56,161 53,715 55,227 55,851
Current assets less liabilities 1 4,862 1,824 11,192 8,848 8,348
Net assets held for sale 1 – 5,974 – – –
Net assets employed 1 74,897 63,959 64,907 64,075 64,199
Source of finance
Equity shareholders’ funds 57,972 47,664 50,946 55,443 56,027
Minority interests – – (468) (213) 48
Net borrowings/(cash) 16,925 16,295 14,429 8,845 8,124
Source of finance 1 74,897 63,959 64,907 64,075 64,199
Debt : equity ratio 2 29.2% 34.2% 28.3% 16.0% 14.5%
Earnings per 25p ordinary share
Adjusted 4.77p 3.19p 2.37p 1.98p 1.41p
Basic 4.73p 2.01p 1.26p 0.88p (8.05p)
Diluted 4.68p 2.01p 1.25p 0.88p (8.05p)
Net dividend per ordinary share 2.25p 1.85p 1.65p 1.60p 1.60p
Return on net assets 3 54.4% 36.5% 37.2% 32.6% 18.7%
Notes
1 For the purpose of this summary: a) current assets less liabilities comprise current assets, less cash balances and other creditors and provisions for liabilities and charges 
b) net borrowings, which comprise bank overdrafts and bank loans less cash balances, have been excluded from net assets employed and treated as a source of finance.
2 Debt:equity represents net borrowings as a percentage of shareholders’ funds.
3 This represents the profit on ordinary activities before interest excluding exceptional items and goodwill amortisation expressed as a percentage of the average 
of the net assets employed less goodwill. 76 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
We have audited the individual Company financial statements (the “financial statements”) of Chloride Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2006 which
comprise the balance sheet, the cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 15.These individual Company financial statements have been prepared under 
the accounting policies set out therein.
The corporate governance statement and the directors’ remuneration report are included in the Group annual report of Chloride Group PLC for the year
ended 31 March 2006.We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Chloride Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2006 and 
on the information in the directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work has been
undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no other
purpose.To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted for use in the European Union are set out in the statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the individual Company financial statements in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the individual Company financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial
reporting framework and whether the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation.We report to you if, in our opinion, the directors’ report is not consistent with the individual Company financial statements.We also report to you 
if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information
specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the directors’ report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section.We consider 
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the individual Company financial statements.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the individual Company financial statements. It also includes an assessment
of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with 
sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the individual Company financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the individual
Company financial statements.
OPINION
In our opinion:
l the individual Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union, of the state 
of the Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2006; and
l the individual Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation.
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London, United Kingdom
5 June 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE
MEMBERS OF CHLORIDE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 77
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
AT 31 MARCH
2006 2005
Notes £000 £000s
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 4 1,256 1,491
Investments 5 137,199 116,964
Deferred tax assets 6 2,171 1,866
140,626 120,321
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 7 39,665 40,850
39,665 40,850
T otal assets 180,291 161,171
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts and other loans 9 18,049 25,716
Trade and other payables 8 32,425 17,951
Tax payable 770 770
Provisions 10 1,558 1,146
52,802 45,583
Non-current liabilities
Bank and other loans 9 24,772 13,087
Other payables 8 – 60
Post-employment benefits 11 631 4,693
25,403 17,840
T otal liabilities 78,205 63,423
Net assets 102,086 97,748
Equity
Issued capital 12 62,248 62,183
Share premium 12 3,015 2,987
Own shares 13 (9,194) (10,439)
Retained earnings 13 46,017 43,017
T otal equity 102,086 97, 748
Approved by the Board on 5 June 2006
K H HODGKINSON N W WARNER
Director Director
The information on pages 77 to 84 inclusive forms part of these accounts. 78 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
2006 2005
£000 £000
Operating activities
Operating profit/(loss) 8,333 (2,725)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 332 308
Reversal of impairment of investments (9,653) –
Non-cash charge for employee share schemes 568 308
Post-employment benefits (3,266) (59)
Increase/(decrease) in other provisions 412 (473)
Operating cash flow before working capital movements (3,274) (2,641)
Decrease in trade and other receivables 1,185 13,859
Increase in trade and other payables 14,414 132
Cash generated by operations 12,325 11,350
Income taxes paid (47) (104)
Finance costs paid (2,353) (1,319)
Investment income 170 370
Net cash from operating activities 10,095 10,297
Investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (97) (1,406)
Sale of property, plant and equipment – 210
Purchase of businesses (10,582) (21,948)
Net cash used in investing activities (10,679) 23,144
Financing activities
Share capital issued 99 55
Proceeds from sale of own shares 1,245 105
(Decrease)/increase in short-term borrowings (5,877) 14,541
Increase in long-term borrowings 11,685 88
Equity dividend paid (4,778) (4,036)
Net cash from financing activities 2,374 10,753
Net increase in overdrafts, cash and cash equivalents (1,790) (2,094)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year (11,175) (9,081)
Net overdrafts and cash equivalents at end of year (9,385) (11,175)
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
The information on pages 77 to 84 inclusive forms part of these accounts. ANNUAL REPORT 2006 79
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
1 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The separate financial statements are presented in conformity with the Companies Act 1985 and are prepared in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards.
The principal accounting policies are the same as set out in note 2 of the consolidated financial statements.
2 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the income statement of the Company is not presented as part of these accounts. Of the Group
consolidated profit for the financial year, a profit of £5,883,000 (2005: loss of £3,965,000) is dealt with in the accounts of the Company.
2006 2005
£000 £000
Operating profit is stated after charging the following:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 332 308
Audit fees – ongoing 99 97
– IFRS conversion – 95
Interim review 49 –
Non-audit fees paid to Deloitte & Touche LLP are disclosed in note 6 to the Group consolidated financial statements.
3 TAXATION
2006 2005
£000 £000
Current tax:
UK corporation tax at statutory rate – –
Adjustment in respect of prior years – –
Double taxation relief – –
– –
Foreign tax 47 104
Adjustment in respect of prior years – –
Current taxation 47 104
Deferred taxation
Origination and reversal of timing differences – trading
– current year 654 211
– prior year (335) –
Total deferred tax 319 211
T otal tax expense 366 315
The table below reconciles the total tax expense with the UK corporation tax rate:
2006 2005
£000 £000
Profit/(loss) before tax 6,411 (2,626)
Tax on loss arrived at by applying the standard rate of UK tax (30%) 1,923 (788)
Impairment reversal not subject to tax (2,896) –
Movement in short-term timing differences (70) (137)
Foreign tax suffered on earnings 47 104
Losses surrendered as group relief without charge 1,362 1,136
T otal tax expense 366 315
The foreign tax charge includes withheld from remittances to the UK of £47,000 (2005: £104,000). 80 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
4 PROPERTY , PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Land and Fixtures and
buildings equipment T otal
£000 £000 £000
Cost or valuation:
At 1 April 2004 191 1,430 1,621
Additions 217 1,189 1,406
Disposals – (210) (210)
At 1 April 2005 408 2,409 2,817
Additions 19697
At 31 March 2005 409 2,505 2,914
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 April 2004 158 994 1,152
Charge for the year 27 281 308
Eliminated on disposal – (134) (134)
At 1 April 2005 185 1,141 1,326
Charge for the year 22 310 332
At 31 March 2005 207 1,451 1,658
Carrying amount:
At 31 March 2005 223 1,268 1,491
At 31 March 2006 202 1,054 1,256
5 INVESTMENTS 
2006 2005
£000 £000
Investment in subsidiaries 136,561 116,964
Other 638 –
137,199 116,964
Other investments are stated at fair value and comprise the Company’s 12% holding in DB Power Electronics Private Limited. Investments in Group companies
are carried at cost less provision for impairment of £8,973,000 (2005: £21,633,000).
Details of the Company’s subsidiaries at 31 March 2006 are as follows:
Company Country of incorporation Principal activity
Chloride Electronics Limited England Sales and service, power protection solutions
Chloride España, S.A.U Spain Sales and service, power protection solutions
Chloride France S.A. France Manufacture, sales and service, power protection solutions
Chloride Power Protection Pty Limited Australia Sales and service, power protection solutions
Chloride Masterguard Power Systems Limited China Sales and service, power protection solutions
Chloride Portugal – Artigos Electronicos, Limitada Portugal Sales and service, power protection solutions
Chloride Power Protection (Thailand) Limited Thailand Sales and service, power protection solutions
Chloride S.p.A. Italy Manufacture, sales and service, power protection solutions
Masterguard do Brasil Limitada Brazil Sales and service, power protection solutions
Masterguard GmbH Germany Sales and service, power protection solutions
Masterguard Güç Kaynaklari Limited Sirketi Turkey Sales and service, power protection solutions
Oneac Corporation US Manufacture, sales and service, power conditioning solutions
UP Systems, Incorporated US Sales and service, power protection solutions
Notes
1 The results of each subsidiary undertaking are included in the consolidated Group results for 2005/2006.
2 Except in the case of Chloride Power Protection Pty Limited, which has a class of preference shares in issue, shares in these principal subsidiary undertakings are ordinary shares
or their local equivalent.
3 Except in the case of Chloride Masterguard Power Systems Limited, the entire ordinary share capital of these principal subsidiary undertakings is held directly by the Company,
or indirectly by one of the Company’s subsidiaries.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH ANNUAL REPORT 2006 81
6 DEFERRED T AX
Deferred tax comprises:
At 1 April Recognised Recognised At 1 April Recognised Recognised At 31 March
2004 in income in equity 2005 in income in equity 2006
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Post-retirement benefits (2,132) 352 372 (1,408) 1,428 (210) (190)
Other provisions (362) (206) 59 (509) (894) (414) (1,817)
Accelerated tax depreciation (14) 65 – 51 (215) – (164)
(2,508) 211 431 (1,866) 319 (624) (2,171)
7 FINANCIAL ASSETS
Trade and other receivables
2006 2005
£000 £000
Amounts falling due within one year
Due from subsidiary undertakings 38,471 40,202
Other receivables 841 520
Prepayments and accrued income 353 128
39,665 40,850
Amounts falling due after more than one year – –
T otal debtors 39,665 40,850
8 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Trade and other payables
2006 2005
£000 £000
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade creditors 1,010 1,158
Amounts owing to subsidiary undertakings 27,008 13,529
Value added, payroll 143 175
Other creditors 863 1,026
Accruals 3,401 2,063
32,425 17,951
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Other payables – 60
T otal creditors 32,425 18,011 82 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
9 BORROWINGS
2006 2005
£000 £000
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts 9,385 11,175
Other 8,664 14,541
18,049 25,716
Non-current liabilities
Other loans 24,772 13,087
Of the non-current loans shown above all are repayable within one to two years.
Analysis of borrowings by currency:
Sterling Euro US$ Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
Year ended March 2006
Bank overdrafts 15,479 (3,615) (2,479) 9,385
Other loans 22,470 10,966 – 33,436
37,949 7,351 (2,479) 42,821
Year ended March 2005
Bank overdrafts 11,310 429 (564) 11,175
Other loans 6,500 18,721 2,407 27,628
17,810 19,150 1,843 38,803
The weighted average interest rate on the borrowings above was 5.1% (2005: 4.2%).
Borrowings and cash balances have been offset where the legal right of offset exists.The Company’s Articles of Association limit the external borrowings of the
Company and its subsidiary undertakings to an amount equal to twice the share capital and consolidated reserves.
Details of the Company’s committed facilities are disclosed in note 21 of the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
10  PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES
Restructuring Other T otal
£000 £000 £000
At 1 April 34 1,112 1,146
Profit and loss account – 446 446
Utilised in the year (34) – (34)
At 31 March – 1,558 1,558
Current – 1,558 1,558
Other provisions mainly relate to contractual and other obligations such as property and routine legal matters for continuing and disposed businesses.
11  POST -EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
Post-employment benefits represent the Company’s net obligation under the Chloride 1996 Pension Scheme. Full disclosure is made under the UK scheme 
in note 33 to the consolidated financial statement of the Group.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH ANNUAL REPORT 2006 83
12  SHARE CAPITAL AND PREMIUM ACCOUNT
The movements on these items are disclosed in notes 26 to 27 of the consolidated financial statements.
13  RETAINED EARNINGS AND NET EQUITY
Retained T otal
Own earnings equity
shares £000 £000
At 1 April 2004 (10,544) 49,901 104,472
Issue of share capital –– 47
Related share premium ––8
Movement in own shares 105 – 105
Profit for the year – (3,965) (3,965)
Dividends paid – (4,036) (4,036)
Share-based payments – 308 308
Actuarial gain/(loss) – 1,240 1,240
Tax on items recognised in equity – (431) (431)
At 31 March 2005 (10,439) 43,017 97,748
Issue of share capital – –65
Related share premium –– 28
Movement in own shares 1,245 – 1,245
Profit for the year – 5,883 5,883
Dividends paid – (4,777) (4,777)
Share-based payments – 568 568
Actuarial gain – 702 702
Tax on items recognised in equity – 624 624
At 31 March 2006 (9,194) 46,017 102,086
14  RELATED-P ARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Company makes a service charge to the UK pension scheme in respect of pensions administration, office accommodation and related service costs.
The total service charge for the year was £80,000 (2005: £102,000).
At 31 March 2006 the Company had receivable and payable balances with its affiliates of £38,471,000 (2005: £40,202,000) and £27,008,000 (2005: £13,529,000)
respectively. During the cause of the year the company received £4,430,000 for service charges and interest (2005: £4,739,000) and paid £59,000 in interest
(2005: £4,000).The Company’s UK affiliates made contributions and accrued special contributions of £590,000 and £1,474,000 respectively to the Chloride 1996
Pension Scheme.The Company acts as sponsor to this scheme.
15 EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS
These are the Company’s first consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.
As noted in the accounting policies for “Derivative financial instruments and hedging” the Company has elected to apply IAS 32 (Financial Instruments:
Disclosure and Presentation) and IAS 39 (Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement) prospectively from 1 April 2005, as permitted by IFRS 1.
As a result, the relevant information for the year ended 31 March 2005 does not reflect the impact of these standards and is accounted for in accordance 
with UK GAAP .
The Company operates a centralised treasury facility on behalf of its subsidiaries and enters into contracts with third parties in respect of forward foreign
exchange purchases and sales.These contracts are back to back with contracts with the Company’s subsidiaries. At 1 April 2005 and 31 March the Company
therefore had contracts with a net notional value of £nil and net fair values of £nil. 84 ANNUAL REPORT 2006
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS CONTINUITY WORLDWIDE
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
15 EXPLANATION OF TRANSITION TO IFRS CONTINUED
Reconciliation of equity at 31 March 2005 and 1 April 2004 (effective date of transition to IFRS)
2005 2004
T otal equity £000 £000
Total equity under UK GAAP 99,552 107,121
Adjustments to conform to IFRS
Employee benefits (5,699) (6,822)
Dividends 2,378 2,018
Other (55) (36)
Deferred taxation – on IFRS adjustments above 1,572 2,191
T otal equity under IFRS 97,748 104,472
2005
T otal loss for the year ended £000
As reported under UK GAAP (3,476)
Adjustments to conform to IFRS
Employee benefits (325)
Share-based payments (165)
Other (19)
Deferred taxation – on IFRS adjustments above 20
T otal loss under IFRS (3,965)
Key changes in accounting under IFRS 
The differences between UK GAAP and IFRS that have been identified as having the most significant effect on the Company’s reported results are as follows:
IAS 19 – Post-Employment Benefits Under UK GAAP the Company accounted for post-employment benefits under SSAP 24 (Accounting for Pension Costs),
whereby the cost of providing defined benefit pensions and post-retirement healthcare benefits was charged against operating profit on a systematic basis with
surpluses and deficits arising being recognised over the expected average remaining service lives of participating employees. Disclosure of the deficit and service
cost under FRS 17 has been made since 2002.
The fair value balance sheet approach under IAS 19 is similar to that under FRS 17 and hence under IFRS, the cost of defined benefit plans is recognised over
the average remaining service lives of the participating employees, but the cost recognised in each period is dependent on the change during the period in the
recognised defined benefit liability or asset.
The defined benefit liability or asset comprises the net total of the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, as adjusted for 
any past service cost not recognised, less the fair value of the plan assets, if any, at the balance sheet date.
The Company has adopted the amendments to IAS 19 issued in December 2004. Accordingly, actuarial gains and losses arising from differences between
actuarial assumptions used in previous valuations and the actual outcome and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the statement of recognised
income and expense.
IFRS 2 – Share-Based Payments Under UK GAAP , the cost of awards made under the Group’s employee share schemes was based on the  intrinsic value of 
the awards, with the exception of SAYE schemes for which no cost was recognised. Under IFRS, the cost of employee share schemes, including SAYE schemes,
is based on the fair value of the awards that must be assessed using an option pricing model such as Black-Scholes. Generally, the fair value of the award 
is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period due 
to failure to satisfy either service conditions or non-market performance conditions, such as EPS growth targets.
As permitted by the transitional exemption available under IFRS 1, the requirements of IFRS 2 have not been applied to equity instruments granted before 
7 November 2002 and those vesting before 1 January 2005.
Taxation IAS 12 requires that deferred taxation is provided on substantially all differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities.This is wider
than under UK GAAP , which specifically does not permit the recognition of certain timing differences. Deferred tax has therefore been calculated on differences
arising from adoption of IFRS in areas such as share-based payments and post-employment benefits (pensions).
Proposed dividends Under UK GAAP , proposed dividends were recognised as a liability in the period to which they related. Under IFRS, dividends are recognised
as a liability in the period in which they are declared. SHAREHOLDERS’ ENQUIRIES 
Matters relating to shareholdings, such as a request for a replacement share certificate, notification of a change of name or address, enquiries regarding 
dividend payments or amalgamation of shareholdings should be addressed, quoting reference 489, to Lloyds TSB Registrars, whose contact details are 
set out below.The Registrar’s website address for a range of shareholder services is www.shareview.co.uk.
GIFTING Y OUR SHARES 
If you wish to transfer shares as a gift, perhaps to another member of your family, please apply for an appropriate transfer form to the Company’s secretarial
department at the address set out below. Completed transfer forms should be returned to the Registrar, quoting reference 489.
If you have a small number of shares and would like to donate them to charity through ShareGift, please ask the Company’s secretarial department for a
ShareGift transfer form. Completed ShareGift transfer forms should be returned direct to ShareGift,The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 46 Grosvenor Street,
London W1K 3HN.
UK CAPITAL GAINS TAX 
Section 35 of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 provides for the rebasing of capital gains tax at 31 March 1982 in relation to assets held on that 
date and disposed of after 5 April 1988.The date of 31 March 1982 is also relevant in determining the indexation allowances.The respective market values 
of Chloride securities on 31 March 1982 were as follows:
Ordinary shares held at 31 March 1982 25.5p
Ordinary shares derived from the conversion of 7.5% cumulative convertible preference shares in August 1987 23.9p
Or, for shareholders who were at that time taxed under Section 34 of the Finance (No. 2) Act 1975 
in respect of the capitalisation issue connected with the conversion 33.1p
LOW-COST SHARE DEALING SERVICES
Low-cost share dealing services are available to private investors, in respect of purchases or sales of shares in the Company through:
l The Share Centre Limited. Details of the service may be obtained by telephoning The Share Centre Limited on 01296 414144.
l Stocktrade, a division of Brewin Dolphin Securities Limited. Details of the service may be obtained by telephoning Stocktrade on 0845 601 0995 
and quoting reference LOW C0124.
Secretary and registered office
Susan Williams
Ebury Gate, 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London SW1W 0NR
Registered in England number 35389
Telephone +44 (0)20 7881 1440
Facsimile +44 (0)20 7730 5085
E-mail enquiries@chloridegroup.com
Website www.chloridegroup.com
Advisers
Auditors Stockbroker and financial adviser
Deloitte & Touche LLP Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Limited
Banks Registrars
Fortis Bank Lloyds TSB Registrars
Bank of Scotland The Causeway,Worthing
Royal Bank of Scotland West Sussex BN99 6DA
HSBC Telephone 0870 600 3970 (from UK)
+44 121 415 7047 (from outside UK)
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION,
SECRETARY AND ADVISERS
Designed and produced by 85four. Board photography by Robert Wheeler. Printed in England by Westerham Press ISO 14001.This report is printed in vegetable-based 
inks on paper which is made from 50% chlorine-free pulp from plantation forests, and from 50% recycled and de-inked fibres. It can be recycled and is bio-degradable.
ANNUAL REPORT 2006 85 Ebury Gate
23 Lower Belgrave Street
London SW1W 0NR
www.chloridegroup.com
ANNUAL REPORT 2006
