 SERVING
INTERNATIONALMARKETS
SERVING
INTERNATIONAL
MARKETS
ANNUAL REPORT 2010
SecurePowerAlways CONTENTS
Section 2: Operating review
08 Chief Executive’s review:
20 Corporate social responsibility statement
24 Financial review
30 Risk management
Section 1: Overview
01 Who we are
02 Chloride at a glance
Section 3: Governance
32 Board of directors
34 Directors’ report
37 Corporate governance
04 Chairman’s statement
06 Chloride’s strategy
41 Audit Committee report
43 Remuneration report
52 Directors’ responsibilities statement
Section 4: Financial statements and notes
53 Independent auditors’ report to the members
of Chloride Group Plc (Group)
54 Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
55 Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position
56 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
57 Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows
58 Notes to the accounts
96 Financial glossary
97 Five-year ﬁnancial summary
98 Company statement of ﬁnancial position
99 Company statement of changes in equity
100 Company cash ﬂow statement
101 Notes to the accounts (Company)
Section 5: Additional information
109 Shareholder information, secretary and advisers
13 SUPPLY CHAIN 09 CHINA & HONG KONG 14 ENERGY & INFRASTRUCTURE
17 SOUTH EAST ASIA 18 CHLORIDE ACADEMY 18 PRODUCT INNOVATION
10 INDIA
14 COMPLETE SERVICE SERVING
INTERNATIONAL
MARKETS
CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 01
Section 1: Overview
WHO WE ARE
is a world leader in
protecting mission-critical systems
and processes, ensuring continued
supply of quality power. It provides
“Secure Power Always” through
leading technology and exceptional
customer support.
Chloride’s objective is to grow
sustainably a proﬁtable and resilient
business as a leading global provider
of total secure power solutions
and services. 9.5
11.5
11.0
2008 2009 2010
4.0
4.7
5.2
2008 2009 2010
ADJUSTED EARNINGS AND DIVIDEND
PER SHARE PENCE
EPS
-4% 11.0 PENCE
DPS
+11% 5.2 PENCE
Section 1: Overview
CHLORIDE AT A GLANCE
02 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
2010
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
SALES
£MILLION
+3%
2009: 326.7
2010: 336.0
ADJUSTED OPERATING
PROFIT* £MILLION
-4%
2009: 46.4
2010: 44.7
ADJUSTED PROFIT
BEFORE TAX* £MILLION
-5%
2009: 43.7
2010: 41.4
PROFIT BEFORE
TAX £MILLION
-25%
2009: 39.8
2010: 29.9
ADJUSTED EARNINGS
PER SHARE* PENCE
-4%
2009: 11.5
2010: 11.0
BASIC EARNINGS
PER SHARE PENCE
-27%
2009: 10.6
2010: 7.7
DIVIDEND
PENCE
+11%
2009: 4.7
2010: 5.2
OPERATING
MARGIN* %
-0.9pts
2009: 14.2
2010: 13.3
36.1
46.4
44..7
2008 2009 2010
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT
£MILLION
-4% £44.7 MILLION
21.8
15.4
41.0
2008 2009 2010
NET DEBT
£MILLION
+£25.6millionTO £41.0 MILLION
● Sales show resilience with growth
of 3% to £336.0 million (down 2%
at constant exchange rates (“CER”));
service revenues up 13%, product
sales 3% lower.
● Adjusted operating proﬁt* down 4%
(9%atCER)to£44.7million.Operating
marginheldwithin1%pointofprioryear.
● Restructuring actions on track with
one-time costs of £5.9 million and
better than anticipated savings of
£2.5millionintheperiod,£3.8million
in a full year.
● Record order book for product and
services – up 16%,to £160.0 million,
with improving trends in the
commercial sector.
● Net debt at £41.0 million reﬂecting
strong cash generation (at 108% of
adjusted operating proﬁts (2009: 93%))
and after £37.2 million of acquisitions/
investments. £150 million of
committed facilities in place.
● Proposed ﬁnal dividend of 3.30p per
share, making a total for the year of
5.20p (up 11%, 2.1 times covered).*
* For definition see Financial Glossary on page 96. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 03
2010
OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS
267.6
326.7
336.0
2008 2009 2010
TOTAL SALES
£MILLION
+3% £336.0 MILLION
13.5
14.2
13.3
2008 2009 2010
OPERATING MARGIN*
%
-0.9pts 13.3%
102.4
137.8
160.0
2008 2009 2010
ORDER BOOK
£MILLION
+16% £160.0 MILLION
● Sales growth of 3%, down 2%
at constant exchange rates
● Product sales down by 3%
● Service sales up by 13%
● Launch of high efﬁciency
Trinergy product
● Year-end order book up £22.2 million
to £160 million
ACQUISITION
FRANCE
AUTOMATISMES ENERGIE
ELECTRONIQUES SYSTÈMES
DECEMBER 2009
ACQUISITION
UK
EMERGENCY POWER SYSTEMS PLC
OCTOBER 2009
STAKE INCREASED FURTHER
INDIA
DB POWER
JULY 2009
INITIAL INVESTMENT
CHINA&HONGKONG
NEWTECH TECHNOLOGY HOLDINGS LIMITED
MAY 2009
ACQUISITION
USA
CUSTOM POWER
JUNE 2009
* See Financial Glossary on page 96. SERVING
INTERNATIONAL
MARKETS
Section 1: Overview
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
04 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
A RESILIENT PERFORMANCE
Over the past year the world economic environment has presented the most
difﬁcult trading environment seen for more than 50 years. I am pleased to be
able to report that Chloride has performed resiliently; better than many other
industrial businesses and most of its major competitors. I am grateful to all
of Chloride’s people, each of whom responded professionally to the challenge
presented by the economic situation.
NORMAN BROADHURST CHAIRMAN
Mindful of the long-term growth prospects
for the business, we adopted a dual approach
in the face of a weak economic environment.
The ﬁrst element of this approach reﬂected
our short-term priorities of customers, cash
generation and cost control.
● The service business performed robustly,
as expected, and continued to grow as we
focused on maintaining excellent support
to customers in the prevailing economic
climate. The strength and robustness of
service revenues, together with good
growth in product sales into the Energy
& Infrastructure markets, helped mitigate
the effect of a marked weakness in
commercial markets caused by the poor
economic environment.
● Operating cash generation was strong and
consequently, together with the prudent
management of the balance sheet, gearing
remained low. With proactive management
offacilities,thebusinesstraded(andcontinues
to trade) with more than adequate
headroom throughout the period.
● Early in the year we instituted a
restructuring programme, cognisant of the
long-term growth potential of the business,
to reduce head ofﬁce and back ofﬁce costs
without affecting service to customers.
The manufacturing joint venture in China
continued to develop well and provided
a useful underpin to product margins in
a competitive market.
The second part of the approach, reﬂecting
our conﬁdence in the long-term growth
characteristics of our markets, was to continue
the strategic development of the business
and we made a number of carefully assessed
acquisitions, as a result of which the
business is now better positioned to grow
as markets recover.
The mission-critical importance of reliable and
high-quality electrical power is recognised by
our blue chip customers, and this fundamental
customer need underpins the demand for
Chloride’stechnologyandservicesandpositions
Chloride well to offer excellent growth potential
over the longer term.
KEY FINANCIALS
Total sales increased by 3% to £336.0 million
(2009: £326.7 million), (down 2% at constant
exchangerates(CER*))withproductsalesdown
3% and service revenue up13%. Adjusted
operating proﬁt* was down 4% (9% at CER)
to £44.7 million. The operating margin*,
reﬂecting the resilience of the business,
decreased by only 0.9% points to 13.3%.
The restructuring programme, the cost
of which was treated as exceptional,
cost £5.9 million and delivered savings
of £2.5 million in the current year, and will
deliver £3.8 million in a full year.
Adjusted proﬁt before tax fell by 5% to
£41.4 million (2009: £43.7 million), giving
adjusted earnings per share* of 11.0p (2009:
11.5p), a decrease of 4%. Basic earnings
per share were 7.7p (2009: 10.6p).
Adjusted operating cash ﬂow* was
£48.5 million (2009: £43.0 million),
representing 108% of adjusted operating
proﬁt*, despite an increase in stock associated
with the growth of the order book.
Netdebt*fortheyearincreasedto£41.0million
(2009: £15.4 million) after funding acquisitions
of £37.2 million, though operating cash ﬂow
was more than sufﬁcient to cover capital
expenditure, dividend payments, additional
pension obligations, tax and interest.
* SeeFinancialGlossaryonpage96. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 05
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT
During the year we continued to invest in
the development of the Group to improve
the geographic and market sector balance
of the business.
Most signiﬁcantly we expanded our presence
in the Energy & Infrastructure sector with
three important acquisitions:
● In December 2009 we acquired
Automatismes Energie Electroniques
Systèmes SAS (“AEES”), a French-based
supplier of secure power solutions with
access to markets in the Middle East and
Russia as well as France. This business is
located in Lyon, France, as is our existing
business Chloride Industrial Systems,
which it complements well.
● In October 2009 the acquisition of
Emergency Power Systems PLC (“EPS”)
materially strengthened our presence
in the UK railway sector which we expect
to grow well in the future.
● In May 2009 we acquired Custom Power,
based in Houston, Texas, which provides
access to the North American Energy &
Infrastructure markets for the ﬁrst time.
Our expansion in Asia was enhanced by
a number of strategic actions:
● In India we acquired a further 41% of DB
Power Electronics (PVT) Ltd (“DB Power”)
to take our holding to 90%, improving our
position in the dynamic high-growth Indian
marketplace.
● We established our sales and service
business in Korea, and strengthened
our sales and service ofﬁces in Vietnam,
the Philippines, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan,
Azerbaijan, Turkey and the Middle East.
● In Hong Kong, in May 2009, we took
a 10% stake in Newtech Technology
Holdings Limited (“Newtech”) to improve
access to the Hong Kong and Chinese
data centre markets.
● In China our manufacturing joint venture
in Shenzhen progressed well reaching
the target margins despite lower than
target volumes.
In the UK we made two bolt-on service
acquisitions, strengthening our market-
leading presence.
The global R&D team successfully completed
the development of the innovative Trinergy
product. This was successfully launched during
the year and is proving attractive to customers.
BOARD
During a year of such general economic
uncertainty, the Board remained unchanged.
This stability, together with their excellent
understanding of the business, served the
Group well.
PEOPLE
On the Board’s behalf, I would like to thank
all of the employees for their hard work
and commitment in difﬁcult economic
circumstances that has, without doubt,
contributed to the resilience the Group
has demonstrated during the year.
I am pleased that the Chloride Academy
continued to develop during the year
demonstrating, despite the economic
conditions, Chloride’s commitment to the
training and development of its people.
During the year we agreed with the Pension
Trustees to cap the liabilities attached to the
pensions in payment within the UK deﬁned
beneﬁt scheme, at a cost of £2.4 million.
This was an important step in managing the
volatility in the Group’s UK pension obligations.
FINANCIAL POSITION
Chloride continued to manage its balance
sheet prudently whilst maintaining investment
in the business. Net debt rose, following the
strategic acquisitions made during the year,
though strong operating cash ﬂow more than
covered all other non-acquisition related cash
outﬂows, including interest, dividends and
tax payments.
We renegotiated/replaced all expiring credit
facilities at sensible market rates and the
business has more than sufﬁcient headroom
to sustain investment in the business.
DIVIDEND
The Board is pleased to propose a ﬁnal dividend
of 3.30p per share (2009: 2.85p), reﬂecting our
continued conﬁdence in the Company’s long-
term prospects which, with the interim dividend
of 1.90p per share, gives a dividend for the year
of 5.20p per share – an increase of 11% on the
prior year. Subject to shareholders’ approval
at the Annual General Meeting (AGM), the
ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 2 August 2010
to shareholders on the register at close
of business on 9 July 2010.
OUTLOOK
Chloride is a balanced business serving
international markets which have robust long-
term growth characteristics driven by growing
Energy demand and increasing Digitisation.
Looking to the year ahead, the Group is very
well positioned to beneﬁt from decisions
taken over the last two to three years and,
in particular, the measures taken to develop
the service business and reduce costs whilst
continuing with the strategic development of
the Group. Accordingly, the business ended
the ﬁnancial year ended 31 March 2010 with
stronger market better cost positions than
it started.
The Board now sees clear, positive signs in
both our end markets and order intake trends,
which together with a record opening order
book, provides the Board with conﬁdence in
the prospects for the Group for the year ahead.
Longer term, we will continue to execute our
provenstrategy,makefurthercarefulinvestments
to access high-growth potential markets, and
develop the technology and services that meet
the demands of our customers. Accordingly,
the Board is conﬁdent that the long-term
prospects for the Group are very attractive.
NORMAN BROADHURST CHAIRMAN Section 1: Overview
CHLORIDE’S STRATEGY
06 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
SERVING
INTERNATIONAL MARKETS
Chloride’s strategy is to build a well-balanced secure power business
serving international markets that delivers superior returns to
shareholders, whilst operating in a socially responsible way.
The strategy, whilst regularly reviewed, is proven and has delivered,
over the cycle, market-beating rates of growth whilst offering resilience
in difﬁcult economic circumstances.
15
33
10
2007
19
-10
-3
2008
2009
PRODUCT REVENUE GROWTH
VERSUS THE MARKET %
2015 2010 2020 2025 2030
26%
28.9%
31.8%
20.6%
23.2%
NET ELECTRICITY GENERATION
2010-2030 TRILLION KILOWATTHOURS
There are six key elements
to the strategy.
1 SECURE POWER FOCUS
Chloride is a focused supplier of secure power
solutions that protect our customers’ mission-
critical systems and processes from the
damaging effects of poor power quality and/or
absence of power. All of Chloride’s resources
and expertise are focused on improving
performance in this speciﬁc market.
2 OPERATING IN LONG-TERM
GROWTH MARKETS
Chloride operates in global markets with robust,
long-term growth characteristics driven by
increasingDigitisationandrisingEnergydemand.
DIGITISATION – the sustained growth in the
use of digital data and processing in all aspects
of economic activity.
ENERGY – the rise in the global demand
for energy and the infrastructure required
to provide it.
3 TOTAL SOLUTIONS APPROACH
Chloride’s Total Solutions Approach combines
leading technology and solutions design
expertise with an industry-leading worldwide
service network to provide a through-life
solution to the customer.
● Market
● Chloride product sales
Source: Frost & Sullivan
Source: International Energy Outlook 2009,
Energy Information Administration
Growth from 2010-2030 predicted at 54% CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 07
AFRICA/MIDDLEEAST
09-10 +21%
% OF WORLD SALES 9%
SERVING
INTERNATIONAL MARKETS
AMERICAS
09-10 +21%
% OF WORLD SALES 11%
WORLD
09-10 +3%
WESTERN EUROPE
09-10 -1%
% OF WORLD SALES 55%
EASTERN EUROPE
09-10 -3%
% OF WORLD SALES 9%
ASIA PACIFIC
09-10 +1%
% OF WORLD SALES 16%
ITservices
-33%
Retail
-19%
Healthcare
+9%
Government
-7%
Other
+16%
Servicesales
+13%
Financial
services
-35%
Telecoms
-16%
Manufacturing
-16%
Transport
+28%
E&I
product
Digitisationproduct
+29%
SECTOR PERFORMANCE
%
ACQUISITION/ LOCATION DATE
INVESTMENT
4 GEOGRAPHIC AND MARKET
SECTOR BALANCE
Chloride is building a balanced international
business in order to maximise growth
opportunities in as many geographies and
market sectors as can be properly supported,
whilst not being over-exposed to any particular
geography or market sector.
5 CASH GENERATION, COST CONTROL
AND BALANCE SHEET MANAGEMENT
Chloride manages costs closely, generates
strong operating cash ﬂows and has a prudent
approach to managing the Company’s balance
sheet,allowingsustainedre-investmentinthe
business and strong returns for shareholders.
6 ACQUISITIONS
Chloride makes carefully assessed and
targeted acquisitions that provide improved
geographic or market sector access and/or
complementary technology.
● 2008-2009
● 2009-2010
AEES France Dec ’09
AES Ireland Dec ’09
EPS UK Oct ’09
DB Power –
further 41% India Jul ’09
Custom Power US Jun ’09
Newtech Hong Kong May ’09
Malcolm Power UK Apr ’09
Siemens UPS UK Jan ’09
Protech Services US Jan ’09
PES Ireland Oct ’08
DBPower–
acquisition
of control India Jul ’08
Eltek Sweden Feb ’08
Chloride Rus Russia Feb ’08
Ascor Singapore May ’07
ASTE France Apr ’07
Masterpower UK Mar ’07
Cener Spain Oct ’06
Harath UK Apr ’05 During some or all of the past year the majority of the world’s economies
have been in recession and this presented the most challenging economic
environment for business seen in over 50 years. Whilst Chloride was not
immune from these pressures, I am pleased to report that the Group has
proved to be more resilient than many other industrial businesses and
most of its major competitors.
Section 2: Operating review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
08 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
In the shorter term we chose to maintain
the focus on our customers, cash generation,
and the careful management of our cost base.
We continued to manage the balance sheet
prudently, keeping debt low and ensuring good
headroom with our committed bank facilities.
Notwithstanding the economic environment,
we remained conﬁdent of the long-term growth
characteristics of our markets so we chose to
continue to invest carefully in the long-term
development of the business in pursuit of our
objective of building a well-balanced secure
power business serving international markets.
By taking this dual approach, as well as
providing greater short-term resilience, we
have been able to ensure that the business is
better positioned to grow as markets improve.
SERVING INTERNATIONAL MARKETS
We made excellent progress towards our long-
term objective of building a well-balanced
secure power business serving international
markets. During the year, despite the poor
economic environment, important steps were
taken to continue the strategic development
of the business. These included:
● The acquisition of a further 41% of DB
Power in India to take our holding to 90%,
improving our position in this dynamic and
high-growth potential market.
● The establishment of a new business
in South Korea, with signiﬁcantorders
andsalesalreadyachieved.
● The acquisition of Custom Power in
Houston, Texas, to access the North
American Energy markets for the
ﬁrst time.
● The ﬁrst year of full production at our
manufacturing joint venture in Shenzhen,
China, which underpins product margins
on an important part of our product portfolio.
● A strategic investment in Newtech
Technology Holdings to improve access
to the Hong Kong and China data
centre markets.
● The acquisition of EPS which provides
specialised secure power solutions to
the UK rail industry.
● The acquisition of AEES a leading player
in the energy and infrastructure markets
operating in France and globally.
● Further investments to expand our sales
and service ofﬁces in the Philippines,
the Middle East, Vietnam, Kazakhstan,
Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan and Turkey.
Whilst Western Europe remains our core
market, we maintained the good progress
of recent years in increasing the exposure to
higher growth emerging economies. These
economies now account for 33% of sales,
and the Group will continue to seek to increase
its presence in economies which show higher
growth potential.
LONG-TERM GROWTH MARKETS
Despite the poor short-term economic
environment, we remain conﬁdent in the
long-term growth characteristics of the
Secure Power market we serve. Two very
signiﬁcant long-term global trends drive
growth in our markets:
DIGITISATION: the sustained growth in the
use of digital data and processing in nearly
all aspects of government, commercial and
leisure activity drives demand for secure
power solutions which protect mission-critical
processes and applications. This phenomenon
is as prevalent in emerging countries as it is
in the developed world.
SERVING
INTERNATIONAL
MARKETS
TIM COBBOLD CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 09
SERVING INTERNATIONAL MARKETS:
CHINA & HONG KONG
Chloride’s strategic investment
in Newtech, which has a unique
position in the Hong Kong and
Chinese data centre markets,
establishes Chloride in Hong Kong
and strengthens and extends the
Group’s existing presence in China.
Theinvestment,whichChloridehas
an option to increase, signiﬁcantly
increases the Group’s opportunities
in the fast-growing Chinese and
Hong Kong economies. Section 2: Operating review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
10 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
During the year Chloride increased
to 90% its investment in DB Power,
based in Pune, India. DB Power is
the leading domestic secure power
business in India with over 700
employees and a comprehensive
national network of more than
40 sales and service ofﬁces.
DB Power is Chloride’s presence
in the dynamic, high-growth
Indian marketplace supplying
into the data centre, commercial,
IT services and Energy &
Infrastructure sectors.
SERVING INTERNATIONAL MARKETS:
INDIA CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 11
ENERGY DEMAND: as the world demand
for energy grows so too does the demand
for the infrastructure to generate and supply
it to business and consumers. Secure power
solutions are an important component of the
infrastructure which ensures continuity and
safe operation through the energy supply
chain, from extraction and generation to
transmission and distribution. The trend is
accentuated as the developing world builds,
and the developed world reinvests in, new
infrastructure, particularly as energy sources
change towards nuclear and renewable.
The strength of these two global trends
underpins our conﬁdence in the growth
potential of the markets we serve.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Given the exceptional economic conditions
that prevailed, we took decisive action to
assure a robust and resilient short-term
performance of the business, mindful of
our long-term objectives.
CASH GENERATION
During the year cash management was a
particular priority and we accentuated our focus
on the generation of operating cash. With the
beneﬁt of a high-quality customer base, cash
collections during the year were strong and
debtor day performance at the end of the year
was 71 days, ﬁve days better than at the end
of the prior year. We took steps to ensure
that our supply base, particularly for critical
components and sub-assemblies, was
ﬁnancially secure and managed our payments
to them accordingly. As a consequence of
this focus, adjusted operating cash ﬂow
conversion was 108% of adjusted operating
proﬁt, exceeding the target of 100%, and
reﬂecting the cash generative nature of the
business model.
FINANCIAL POSITION
Our policy of managing a series of bilateral
relationships with a number of banks continued
and early in the year we renewed and increased
a number of banking facilities at sensible
market rates so that throughout the period
we had more than adequate headroom to
allow continued investment in the business.
At the close of the period we had committed
facilities totalling £150 million and, with
strong cash generation, net debt was low
at £41 million, after funding £37.2 million
of acquisitions during the year.
RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMME
AND COST CONTROL
At the start of the year we initiated a targeted
restructuring programme to reduce cost in head
ofﬁce and back ofﬁce functions, whilst ensuring
customer service was unaffected. This
programme,whichwasannouncedinJuly2009,
cost approximately £5.9 million, delivered
savings of £2.5 million in the current year and
will deliver £3.8 million in a full year. The cost
of the programme has been treated as
exceptional. Appropriate changes were made
torecruitment and expenditure authorisations
and to the level of pay reviews in order to
exert a high degree of restraint and control
on overheads which were 5% lower in the year
in constant currency and before acquisitions.
As a consequence, the business ended the
year with a better cost position than it started.
MANUFACTURING JOINT VENTURE
The manufacturing joint venture in Shenzhen,
China, developed rapidly, and by the end of the
year was operating at the targeted margin and
cost levels, despite lower volumes. As markets
recover and volumes improve, we would expect
to see further improvements in performance.
This world-class, low-cost facility provides
a good underpin to product margins going
forward, as well as providing a local source
for shipments into China and the rest of Asia.
MARGIN MANAGEMENT
Contribution margins in both product and
service held up well despite the inevitable
pressures caused by the weak markets.
In product, where pricing was competitive,
margins were within 1% point of the prior
year, beneﬁting from the lower costs in the
joint venture and a series of other actions to
reduce cost in the supply chain.
SERVING
INTERNATIONAL
MARKETS
32
08/09
68
33
67
09/10
25
07/08
75
22
06/07
78
23
05/06
77
CHLORIDE SALES INTO DEVELOPED AND EMERGING COUNTRIES
%
SERVING
INTERNATIONAL
MARKETS
● Emerging countries +32% ● Developed countries -11% Section 2: Operating review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
12 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
Despite the obvious pressures, service
margins were maintained at the same level
as the prior year as service volume growth
on a controlled cost base compensated for
downward pricing pressure.
The robustness of contribution margins, and
improvement in sales mix, towards higher
margin service sales, and the tight overhead
control signiﬁcantly mitigated the negative
operational gearing effect of lower total sales
at CER. As a consequence, operating margins
held up well at 13.3% only 0.9 pts lower and
within 1% point of the prior year.
CURRENCY
The Group’s activities in each of the countries
in which we operate are conducted and
managed in local currency. The weakness
of sterling, relative to the euro and US dollar
in which a majority of the Group’s sales and
proﬁts are generated, contributed to a material
translational impact on the Group’s reported
results. The impact on sales and operating
proﬁt in the year was about 5.0%, £16.0 million
and 5.9%, £2.5 million respectively. The
operating margin is largely unaffected by
currency effects on translation.
Signiﬁcant movements in the sterling-dollar
and sterling-euro exchange rates have the
potential to impact materially on the Group’s
reported results.
ACHIEVING MARKET SECTOR BALANCE
Our long-term objective is to build a
well-balanced secure power business serving
international markets. During the year,
we focused on improving the market sector
balance within the Group.
The value of this approach was reﬂected
in good growth in sales into the Energy
& Infrastructure markets which mitigated
the effect of signiﬁcant weakness in the
Commercial markets which are more closely
aligned with the digitisation trend.
ENERGY & INFRASTRUCTURE
Product sales into the Energy & Infrastructure
market were up 28.7% (21.8% at CER) in the
year. The Energy & Infrastructure market
now accounts for 23% of sales (2009: 19%)
reﬂecting the excellent progress that has been
made. Whilst Oil & Gas activity was subdued,
the result of the relatively lower oil prices,
good growth was achieved in Power
Generation, Transport, and Transmission
& Distribution applications.
The Energy & Infrastructure market is global
and, with nearly half of sales made into the
Middle East, North Africa and Asia, growth in
this sector improved the geographic balance
of the business.
Many of the world’s energy markets are still
under-penetrated by Chloride, so providing
opportunities for further growth. The
acquisitions of AEES, EPS and Custom Power
increased signiﬁcantly our presence in this
high-growth potential sector. The integration
of these businesses is proceeding to plan
and they are trading in line with expectations.
Shortly after the period end we adjusted
our management structure to increase our
focus upon, and accelerate our presence in,
this sector.
GOVERNMENT & COMMERCIAL
In common with all our competitors, our
commercial product business suffered with
the economic weakness and was down 14%
(19% at CER). Following the growth in Energy
& Infrastructure, our commercial product now
accounts for 40% of product sales (2009:
48%). All major sectors were affected, with
ﬁnancial services (down 35% (37% at CER)),
Telecoms (down 16% (20% at CER)) and
manufacturing (down 16% (20% at CER))
particularly badly hit. We redirected resource
to those sectors which were likely to be less
SERVING
INTERNATIONAL
MARKETS CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 13
SERVING INTERNATIONAL MARKETS:
SUPPLY CHAIN
Chloride’s state-of-the-art, high-
quality, low-cost manufacturing
joint venture in Shenzhen, China,
became fully operational during
2009 and supplies more than 40%
of the Group’s requirements for
the commercial markets and will
supply key modules for products
in the Energy & Infrastructure
markets globally. This facility
has allowed the Group to access
lower cost Chinese suppliers, so
underpinning product margins and
provides a local source for direct
supply to the fast-growing Chinese
and South East Asia markets. 14 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Chloride has continued to generate organic
growth in its Energy & Infrastructure business
by increasing market penetration across the
world including the Middle East, North Africa
and the Far East. The acquisition of Custom
Power in May 2009 provided a platform in
the US Energy & Infrastructure market for the
ﬁrst time.Theacquisitionof AEES extended
Chloride’s presence in this market in France
and Russia and elsewhere, whilst the
acquisition of EPS strengthened our presence
in the growing rail market in the UK.
SERVING INTERNATIONAL MARKETS:
ENERGY &
INFRASTRUCTURE
Chloride has continued to build a global sales
& service network that enables us to support
customers locally, with local people. In this
way we seek to build long-term relationships
with our customers and to differentiate
ourselves from our competitors through the
breadth and quality of the service we offer.
SERVING INTERNATIONAL MARKETS:
COMPLETE
SERVICE
Section 2: Operating review CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 15
affected, including Healthcare up 9% (3%
at CER). Pleasingly, in the second half of the
year order intake showed encouraging signs
of improvement with a return to growth, and
order books in this part of the business grew
in the second half of the year.
LEVERAGING THE SALES &
SERVICE NETWORK
Chloride’s global sales & service network is
a competitive advantage, and we continued to
invest in the development of both the people
and the network throughout the year.
We achieved another year of good growth
with service revenues up 13% (8% at CER) to
£124.8 million. Service now accounts for 37%
(2009: 34%) of total sales. The service order
book grew by 9% in total, the majority of
which was organic. We made two small
bolt-on acquisitions, both in the UK business
(one in Ireland and one in Scotland), and
we will continue to make bolt-on service
acquisitions to support the development
of the business.
High-quality, trusted service support, delivered
by well-trained local staff is part of our focus
on customers. It was particularly important,
given the economic situation, when customers
may have chosen to defer capital spending
whilst wishing to maintain the same level
of uptime of their critical processes and
applications. This service provision is an
important part of the through-life solution
we provide to our customers and provides
us with resilient and secure future earnings.
We continue to develop and broaden our
service offering, and service revenues from our
Energy & Infrastructure business grew by 39%
as the service approach, historically associated
with the Commercial business, was applied
to the Energy & Infrastructure market.
SALES PERFORMANCE
WESTERN EUROPE
Sales in Western Europe, which represent
55% of total sales (2009: 57%), fell by 1%
(5% at CER), which was better than the
market, and reﬂects the strength of our market
position in Western Europe, particularly in
service. In this region the dominant effect was
weakness in the commercial business, caused
by weak economies, and this was only partly
offset by service growth and to a lesser extent
growth in Energy & Infrastructure where
markets outside Western Europe provided
more opportunity.
In the UK our service business continued
to grow well and this helped offset a weak
product market, affected particularly by the
weakness in the Financial Services sector which
was evident at the start of the year. The Energy
& Infrastructure business, which includes the
Masterpower business in Scotland, has been
strengthened by the EPS acquisition and is
developing well as a focused approach to this
market is deployed. The acquisition of Malcolm
Power Systems in Scotland was completed
at the start of the year, and in Ireland we
strengthened our market-leading position
with the acquisition of AES, a service provider,
to complement the acquisition of PES which
we made in late 2008.
In France the commercial business held up
well despite the economic environment, with
service sales continuing to grow. Energy &
Infrastructure beneﬁted from the acquisition
of AEES. Based in Lyon, AEES is a leading
player in this market with good presence in
France as well as signiﬁcant exposure to the
Middle Eastern and Russian energy markets.
SERVING
INTERNATIONAL
MARKETS
SERVING
INTERNATIONAL MARKETS
● Chloride subsidiaries and ofﬁces
● Chloride joint ventures
● Chloride Partners Section 2: Operating review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
16 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
The severity of the weakness in the Spanish
economy was reﬂected in our business where
sales were signiﬁcantly lower, though the
service business performed robustly in the
circumstances. Whilst there are signs that
the situation has stabilised, the economy’s
weaknesses will be the dominant feature
for some time to come.
Unsurprisingly, Germany proved difﬁcult too,
a reﬂection of the sharp reduction in order
intake near the start of the year as exports
dried up. There are signs of a nascent recovery.
The Italian business performed well, with
service growth more than offsetting some
limited weakness in product business.
MIDDLE EAST
In the Middle East, sales were ahead by 21%
(13% at CER), and the region now accounts for
9% (2009: 8%) of total sales, driven by strength
in the Energy & Infrastructure sector. Our focus
on the Qatar and Abu Dhabi markets was well
judged, with good growth from both. A special
focus on Saudi Arabia paid off with strong
growth, up 130% (115% at CER) from this
important market. During the year we
strengthened our sales and service ofﬁce
in Dubai with additional sales and service
personnel to support our rapidly expanding
installed product base.
EASTERN EUROPE
InEasternEurope,TurkeyandCentralAsia,which
accountsfor9%oftotalsales(2009:10%),sales
were down by 3%. A more aggressive total
solutions approach in Turkey, where we are
a market leader, resulted in growth of 12%,
but this was offset by lower economic activity
in Russia and Poland. Nevertheless, our joint
venture, Chloride Rus, continued to perform
well given the market conditions, and we
strengthened the team to provide a focus
on the Energy & Infrastructure market.
THE AMERICAS
The Americas accounts for 11% of the
Group’s sales (2009: 10%) and was up 21%
(12% at CER). In North America both our low
power/power conditioning business (down
2.8% at CER) and our high-power business
(down 1.1% (UPS Systems) at CER) struggled
in difﬁcult and competitive market conditions.
In the low-power business there were
encouraging order intake trends in the
second half and in high power there was
a similar discernable improvement in project
opportunities. Custom Power, which was
acquired in June 2009, provides the platform
for growth in the North American Energy
market, particularly as oil prices recover.
ASIA PACIFIC
Asia Paciﬁc accounts for 16% of total sales
(2009: 16%) and was up 1% (down 6% at
CER). The global recession did affect Asia for
much of the year and this was reﬂected in our
underlying performance. In Australia, which
has a strong bias towards the ﬁnancial sector,
product sales struggled though the service
business held up well. India suffered from
a near cessation of inward investment into
the data centre market, though this improved
towards the end of the year whilst the
domestic manufacturing sector held up well
and the business ﬁnished the year strongly.
In the Philippines, where we established our
business early in the year, we made rapid
progress with good orders and sales. In Korea
we made a breakthrough with the ﬁrst data
centre project for LG which will be a strong
reference for the future. In Vietnam our
representative ofﬁce again delivered, with good
order and sales growth, and we have taken
steps to strengthen the organisation further.
In Singapore we made solid progress with
another year of strong product sales growth.
TECHNOLOGY & SOLUTIONS
We continued to invest in our technology to
provide customers with new and innovative
solutions that provide them with value. Our
focus is energy efﬁciency and reducing the
total cost of ownership for our customers
as they seek to minimise their energy costs
and CO2 emissions. Our R&D capability is
spread globally, close to customers and to
SERVING
INTERNATIONAL
MARKETS CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 17
The footprint in SE Asia has
continuedtobeexpandedtoprovide
aChloridepresencelocatedcloseto
customers in the important higher
growthpotentialmarketsofSEAsia.
In2009newsales&serviceofﬁces
were opened in Vietnam, S Korea,
and the Philippines in SE Asia;
allowing important customer
relationships to be established
and from which strong order
intake has been achieved.
SERVING INTERNATIONAL MARKETS:
SOUTH EAST ASIA Section 2: Operating review
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
18 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
SERVING INTERNATIONAL MARKETS:
PRODUCT
INNOVATION
The launch of Trinergy in 2009 reﬂects
Chloride’s long-held commitment to market-
led innovation. Trinergy is a revolutionary
UPS solution that provides market-leading
efﬁciency of up to 99%, allowing customers
all over the world to reduce their carbon
emissions, energy consumption and costs
whilstmaintainingthehighlevelsofassurance
they demand for their critical processes
and applications. In the ﬁrst months since
the launch, orders have been taken all over
the world including in the UK, Kazakhstan,
Singapore, China, Germany… emphasising
the global attractiveness of the solution.
The Chloride Academy addresses the training
needs of many of Chloride’s 2,540 employees.
Training centres have been accredited in ten
countries across the world, from Australia to
Chicago, Italy to Singapore, UK to Turkey,
each of which is able to ensure that local
staff are given the training appropriateto
theirlocalmarkettoensurethatcustomers
receive the highest level of service support
and that our employees are trained to use
the best methods to assure their health and
safety and to protect the environment.
SERVING INTERNATIONAL MARKETS:
CHLORIDE
ACADEMY CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 19
the markets we serve, and is coordinated
so that resource is targeted on our priorities.
A global team, involving the US, China, India,
Italy and Germany developed the new and
innovative Trinergy range that has set new
standards for efﬁciency performance, and is
highly competitive on a total cost of ownership
basis. The range was launched midway through
the year and, as if to prove its international
heritage, orders have already been taken
across the world including Singapore, Austria,
China, Italy, Kazakhstan, UK, Germany, and
Turkey, amongst others. The solution is
manufactured in our joint venture in China
using modules deployed in other units,
so it beneﬁts from an excellent cost position.
As part of our strategy of maintaining a
forward-looking approach to technology
development, we continued to work with
partners on the development of fuel cell,
ﬂywheel and “new-battery” based solutions.
Although still in the early stages, we recently
won our ﬁrst order to provide a Lithium Ion
battery-based solution into the market.
The vitality index, which represents the
proportion of product sales generated from
products introduced in the last three years,
stands at 74% reﬂecting the sustained
investment in new product technology.
PEOPLE
Chloride has an experienced, skilled and loyal
workforce and I am particularly grateful to all
of my colleagues for their commitment and
tenacity in support of our customers through
what has been a challenging year. The
business’s resilient performance is a testament
to their perseverance, and I look forward to
working with them in what we all hope will
be an improving economic environment.
The Chloride Academy has developed further
during the year with the formal accreditation
of a further two (making a total of ten) academy
centres located across the world. The Academy
has a critical role to play to ensure that our sales
and service people have the right skills and
training to provide support to customers.
The Academy now also provides courses to
customer staff and to business partners and
ensures that training and health and safety
standards are properly deﬁned and embedded
in the service processes.
In the future the Academy’s role will be
extended to include the development of
people in support of the Group’s strategy.
PROSPECTS
Chloride is a balanced business serving
international markets which have robust long-
term growth characteristics driven by growing
Energy demand and increasing Digitisation.
Looking to the year ahead, the Group is very
well positioned to beneﬁt from decisions
taken over the last two to three years and,
in particular, the measures taken to develop
the service business and reduce costs whilst
continuing with the strategic development of
the Group. Accordingly, the business ended
the ﬁnancial year ended 31 March 2010 with
stronger market and better cost positions
than it started.
The Board now sees clear, positive signs in
both our end markets and order intake trends,
which together with a record opening order
book, provides the Board with conﬁdence in
the prospects for the Group for the year ahead.
Longer term, we will continue to execute
our proven strategy, make further careful
investments to access high-growth potential
markets, and develop the technology and
services that meet the demands of our
customers. Accordingly, the Board is conﬁdent
that the long-term prospects for the Group
are very attractive.
TIM COBBOLD CHIEF EXECUTIVE
SERVING
INTERNATIONAL
MARKETS 20 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
CSR REVIEW
In the past year the Group initiated a major
review of its CSR performance and reporting.
The purpose of the review was to ensure that
the Group’s CSR strategy and policies were
up to date with current practice and law, and
that its CSR objectives supported the Group’s
overall business strategy. The ﬁrst policies
reviewed were the Code of Ethics, the
Anti-Corruption Policy and the Whistleblowing
Policy. The revised policies are published on
the Group’s CSR section of its website and
are being formally implemented. The Board
intends that policies will be reviewed on a
regular and deﬁned basis going forward.
Chloride considers its stakeholders, and the
basic responsibilities owed to them, as follows:
● Customers – to provide high-quality
secure power solutions and services
at all times, and to treat customers with
professionalism and integrity at all times.
● Employees – to attract and retain the
most talented employees by providing
a merit-based environment supported by
fair and competitive employment practices,
and equal opportunities.
● Health&Safety – to provide a safe working
environment for all of our employees, and
safe products and services as they affect
other stakeholders.
● Suppliers – to work with professionalism
and integrity with all of our suppliers.
● Environment – to minimise the
environmental impact of our products,
services and business practices at both
the design and use stages.
● Community – to help communities where
we operate through charities supported by
our employees.
● Society – to respect the laws and
regulatory frameworks in all territories
in which we operate.
CUSTOMERS
CUSTOMER SERVICE
Chloride’s total power protection solutions
perform an essential role in providing secure
power to a wide range of mission-critical and
safety-critical applications. These include data
centres; ofﬁce IT systems; hospital equipment;
passenger safety systems in airports; control
centres for emergency services; signalling on
railway networks; trafﬁc management systems
on major road networks and emergency lighting
in challenging environments such as offshore
drilling rigs and underground metro tunnels.
Our solutions are an essential part of many
renewable energy generation projects, such
as wind farms and solar power installations.
We have also formed alliances with partners for
the supply of fuel cells (where the only waste
product is water) and for ﬂywheel technology,
in order to help our customers achieve their
environmental goals. We continually improve
our service offerings and LIFE.net, our
industry-leading remote diagnostics software,
is an important part of our solutions offering.
PRODUCTS
We ensure that our products meet
environmental regulations in the countries
where we operate and that new products are
progressively more energy efﬁcient. In the
year we launched Trinergy, an innovative
product with market-leading energy efﬁciency,
which reduces CO2 emissions and offers a low
overall total cost of ownership. Trinergy is
proving attractive in markets across the world.
SERVING
INTERNATIONAL
MARKETS
Section 2: Operating review
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
The Group recognises that a strong corporate social responsibility (CSR)
performance represents an integral dimension of its overall business
performance and, accordingly, growth in shareholder value. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 21
SERVING INTERNATIONAL MARKETS:
ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCTS
We ensure that our products meet
environmental regulations in the
countries where we operate and
thatnewproductsareprogressively
more energy efﬁcient. This is
proving attractive in markets
across the world. 22 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
We are actively involved in industry bodies –
notably the European Committee of
Manufacturers of Electrical Machines and
Power Electronics (CEMEP) – which considers
the application of the EU Directive 2002/95/EC
“Restrictions of the use of certain Hazardous
Substances in Electrical Equipment” (the RoHS
Directive) to UPS systems. Although this
directive, which requires the reduction of
substances such as lead and cadmium in
electronic equipment, does not directly apply
to UPS systems, we are committed to
avoiding the use of non-compliant materials
where this does not compromise the
operation and reliability of the UPS system.
Our low-power ranges have RoHS-compliant
electronics and we work with individual
customers to meet their compliance
requirements. Although currently there is no
equivalent standard covering the USA, our US
subsidiary produces all its low-power products
with RoHS-compliant electronics.
EMPLOYEES
The Group operates an equal opportunity
policy and is committed to providing
recruitment and other opportunities regardless
of age, sex, sexual orientation, religion, race or
disability. As at 31 March 2010 the Group had
2,540 employees. The Group’s employees are
spread over 23 countries and in the larger sites
there are dedicated human resource managers
reporting to the local General Manager.
The Group Human Resources Director is
responsible for compliance on a global basis
with human resources policies. It is the
practice to communicate at local level through
appropriate means, such as works councils,
brieﬁng groups, workshops and newsletters.
The Group is committed to developing and
motivating its people, and in the UK it
participates in the Investors in People scheme.
There is also a programme to help employees
to acquire professional and technical
qualiﬁcations that are relevant to their jobs.
The Chloride Academy, established in May
2007, provides enhanced skills training, and
769 employees (30% of the workforce) (2009:
640 and 27%) successfully completed courses
during the Academy’s third year of operation.
Limits of authority are in place to restrict the
size and type of contracts that individuals
may sign, ensuring that signiﬁcant contracts
with suppliers, as well as customers and
intermediaries, are signed off at an appropriate
level in the organisation.
Chloride encourages open and honest
communication between employees and
management throughout the organisation and
provides a “whistleblowing” procedure which
employees can use if they have serious
concerns about ethical or management issues
that they feel unable to discuss directly with
local management. There were three reported
incidents during 2009/2010, all of which were
investigated and resolved.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
We recognise the primary importance of
ensuringthehealthandsafetyofouremployees
and others affected by the Group’s activities.
Chloride’s policy is to manage activities so that
employees and others are not exposed to
unnecessary and unacceptable risks to their
health and safety, and to meet or exceed the
legal and regulatory health and safety standards
in the territories in which we operate.
Health and safety management is embedded
in the organisation. The General Manager in
each business is accountable for local health
and safety issues, and in major sites there
are designated senior managers responsible
for health and safety. Policies and procedures
are documented and regularly updated in
our principal locations and employees’
representatives are involved in discussions
of health and safety issues through works
councils or Health and Safety Committees
on a regular basis.
Where health and safety risks are identiﬁed as
signiﬁcant, the Risk Committee keeps under
review the actions taken to address the risk.
These, in turn, are reported to the Audit
Committee, along with statistics on workplace
accidents. Evaluation of health and safety and
environmental performance is also an integral
part of the due diligence process on the
acquisition of businesses.
Health and safety training is provided as
necessary, particularly in relation to battery
handling and working with electricity. The
Chloride Academy includes health and safety
as an integral part of its education programme.
We continue to focus on minimising risk to
service engineers while providing installation,
commissioning and after-sales technical
service in customers’ premises.
SERVING
INTERNATIONAL
MARKETS
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
Section 2: Operating review
Chloride’s joint venture with Phoenixtec Power
Company, Taiwan, has developed a high-quality,
low-costmanufacturingfacilityinShenzhen,China.
The Chloride Academy provides enhanced
skills training, and 769 employees successfully
completed courses during the Academy’s
third year of operation. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 23
We have procedures in place to minimise the
exposure of our employees to terrorist and
other risks while working in sensitive locations.
All travel to areas deemed sensitive by the
Foreign Ofﬁce travel advice service is subject
to prior approval by the Group Risk Manager.
Business Continuity policies developed in
response to the threat of pandemics also
restrict travel to affected areas in the event
of such an occurrence.
During the year ended 31 March 2010, working
days lost due to accidents in the workplace was
0.3 days per employee (2009: 0.5) compared
to the overall industry ﬁgure of 1.2 days.
Health and safety plans are in place in all
Chloride’s sites to manage and reduce
accidents in the workplace. Accidents while
driving continue to be the biggest contributor
to our accident statistics and driver training
has now been put in place in the UK and Italy
where the majority of Company vehicles are
situated. Over 300 Company drivers will attend
driver awareness courses during 2010. To
meet new Health and Safety legislation in the
UK, over 200 staff will attend health and safety
training courses, provided by Chloride’s risk
management service providers, during 2010.
SUPPLIERS
Chloride believes in building long-term
partnerships with its key suppliers. Chloride’s
joint venture with Phoenixtec Power Company,
Taiwan, has developed a high-quality, low-cost
manufacturing facility in Shenzhen, China,
and continues to increase our product and
service offering in our developing regions.
Supplier audits are carried out regularly to
ensure that our major suppliers remain
ﬁnancially viable and that they have maintained
their ISO 14001 accreditation. Alternative
suppliers for all key components have been
identiﬁed and audited.
ENVIRONMENT
Chloride is committed to maintaining good
environmental practice to minimise the impact
of its activities on the environment. We are
also a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index.
Our policy is to comply with standards that
match or exceed environmental legislation
in all countries in which we operate, and
to comply with ISO 14001, (2004 issue)
environmental management standards
in our principal operational sites.
We encourage initiatives which beneﬁt the
environment, including the continued use
of video and telephone conferencing in order
to reduce air and land travel. Our energy
usage at our main operating sites continues
to decrease due to our energy recovery and
recycling technology.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
The Group has ﬁve principal production centres
in Bologna, Italy; Lyon, France; Chicago, USA;
Pune, India; and Shenzhen, China. These
activities mainly involve the assembly and
testing of electronic equipment; however,
the consumption of energy, water and
hazardous substances is low.
The principal sales and service sites are in
Southampton, Bedford and Aberdeen, UK;
Erlangen, Germany; Bologna, Italy; Istanbul,
Turkey; Madrid, Spain; and Sydney, Australia.
All of these production and sales and service
sites, with the exception of India, have been
accredited with ISO 14001, 2004 issue. India
has ISO 9001 accreditation and will work
towards ISO 14001 in due course. As part of
ISO 14001 requirements, each site is required
to evaluate environmental risks and measure
performance on the key areas of impact.
Performance measures are speciﬁc to each
site, enabling the focus to be maintained
on their particular areas of importance.
Compliance with ISO 14001 is certiﬁed
by independent certiﬁcation bodies.
Ninety per cent of Chloride’s turnover is
generated by ISO 14001 compliant sites and
the majority of our components are purchased
from ISO 14001 certiﬁed suppliers.
Where requested by the customer, Chloride
undertakes responsibility for disposing of used
batteries at the end of their useful life, typically
ﬁve years. All waste batteries are handled
through licensed waste contractors who
recover and recycle any hazardous content,
and dispose of any such waste in accordance
with applicable regulations.
For the past two years Chloride has developed
processes to measure the Group’s CO2
emissions and will disclose the 2009/2010
emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Report
for the ﬁrst time. Data collection for CO2
emissions from Source 1, 2 and 3 categories
continues to be reﬁned and emissions during
2009/2010 were less than 3 tonnes per
employee versus an industry average of
3-8 tonnes. Projects continue to be developed
to manage and reduce the CO2 emissions
from all of Chloride’s principal sites.
COMMUNITY & SOCIETY
We aim to help the communities where
we operate, and in which our employees live.
We encourage our employees to participate
in community charitable activity and match
charitable donations generated by them.
With respect to wider society, we respect the
laws and regulatory frameworks in all of the
territories in which we operate. In particular,
our Code of Ethics and our Anti-Corruption and
Whistleblowing Policies (all recently revised
and updated) set out our approach to these
matters, and further policy review is planned
for the new ﬁnancial year. Mar 10 Feb 10 Jan 10 Dec 09 Nov 09 Oct 09 Sep 09 Aug 09 Jul 09 Jun 09 May 09 Apr 09 Mar 09
● CHLORIDE ● FTSE 250
NEIL WARNER GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR
Section 2: Operating review
FINANCIAL REVIEW
24 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
Together with a strong year-end order book,
the Company’s ﬁnancial strength has again
been demonstrated by its ability to turn proﬁts
into cash and maintain low net debt. We start
the new year well positioned for future growth.
The Board’s conﬁdence in the future is again
reﬂected in the ﬁnal dividend, which the Board
recommends rises 16% to 3.3p, giving a full-
year dividend of 5.2p.
The Company continues to believe it is very
well placed to increase total shareholder return
(TSR) over the coming years. The fundamental
market drivers for growth – rising demand
for energy and increasingly critical digitised
application needs – remain.
SERVING
INTERNATIONAL
MARKETS
CONTINUING FINANCIAL STRENGTH AND RESILIENCE
Highlights
● Proﬁts turned into cash with consistently strong operating cash ﬂow.
● Operating cash ﬂow conversion of 108%*.
● Net debt* of £41 million, an increase of £25.6 million after acquisition spend of £37.2 million.
● Low debt leverage.
● Net debt to Equity (book) 31%.
● Net debt to Equity (market) 7%.
● Undrawn debt facilities and cash of £109 million providing strong base for future growth.
● TSR* ahead of FTSE 250 (despite being in a period favouring cyclical recovery stocks).
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN 1 APRIL 2009 TO 31 MARCH 2010
* See Financial Glossary on page 96. +13%
+26%
2007
+31%
2006 2008
+30%
2009
+13%
2010
+11.5%
+13.5%
2007
+9.8%
2006 2008
+14.2%
2009
+13.3%
2010
+116%
+83%
2007
+115%
2006 2008
+93%
2009
+108%
2010
20.1 27.3 30.0 43.0 48.5
+25.5
2009
+18.4
+34.7
2008
+28.3
+16.1
2010
+5.8
+10
2009
+19
+15
2008
+33
-10
2010
-3
GROWTH IN ORDER BOOK
AND ORDERS %
● Year-end order book
● Order intake
CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 25
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIs)
Achievement of our strategic goals is key to
enhancing shareholder value and the progress
made is discussed in the Chairman’s
Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review and
the Corporate and Social Responsibility (CSR)
update. The Group uses a number of ﬁnancial
and non-ﬁnancial KPIs to assess performance
against its objectives.
The major ﬁnancial KPIs are shown on this
page. The major non-ﬁnancial KPIs relate
to Environmental and Health & Safety
performance, progress on which is reported
upon in the CSR section.
PRODUCT REVENUE GROWTH
VERSUS THE MARKET %
CASH CONVERSION*
£MILLION
+108% £48.5 MILLION
GROWTH IN SERVICE REVENUE
£MILLION
+13% £124.8 MILLION
OPERATING MARGINS*
%
-0.9PTS AT 13.3%
● Market
● Chloride product sales
* See Financial Glossary on page 96.
Source: Frost & Sullivan,
World Market Report,
July 2009 Section 2: Operating review
FINANCIAL REVIEW
26 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
ADJUSTED OPERATING CASH FLOW
AND CONVERSION
Adjusted operating cash ﬂow was strong,
with conversion of 108%. Good credit control
was exercised (year-end debtor days were
71 (76 in 2009) despite the level of overdue
debtors rising from 15 days to 21 days as
customers felt the impact of the challenging
economic environment). Inventories increased
to meet the growth in the order book but this
was offset by a lengthening of trade payables
as we carefully managed our supply chain.
Management remains committed to turning
proﬁts into cash to enable reinvestment in
the businesses.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
AND INVESTMENTS
Gross ﬁxed asset capital expenditure in the
year was c. £4.5 million primarily on service
infrastructure investment and related systems.
ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENTS
Chloride made a number of important
investments during the year:
ENERGY AND INFRASTRUCTURE SECTOR
● France – In December 2009, Chloride
acquired the entire share capital of AEES
for a consideration of £19.1 million, with
a further payment, subject to performance
conditions, of up to £1.8 million deferred
for one year.
● USA – In June 2009, the Company acquired
the trade and certain assets of Custom
Power for a consideration of £2.9 million,
with a further payment of £2.1 million
to be made after two years if certain
performance conditions are met.
● UK – In October 2009, the Company
acquired the entire share capital of EPS,
a UK-based secure power business,
for an initial consideration of £2.7 million
and a payment of £1.5 million to
extinguish its debts. A further £1 million
is payable within two years, subject to
performance conditions.
EXTENSION OF SERVICE AND MAINTENANCE
BUSINESSES IN THE UK AND EIRE
During the year the Company also spent
£0.7 million to extend service capacity in
the UK and Eire.
COMPLETION OF PLANNED INVESTMENT
IN INDIA
In July 2009, the Company acquired a further
41% of the share capital of DB Power
Electronics (PVT) Ltd, a manufacturer and
supplier of critical power protection services
in India for a cash consideration of £12.5 million,
bringing Chloride’s total investment in the
company to 90%.
STRATEGIC INVESTMENT IN
HONG KONG, CHINA
In May 2009, we completed the purchase of
a 10% stake in Newtech Technology Holdings
in Hong Kong and China for £1.3 million.
TOTAL EQUITY
Equity fell in the year to £132.5 million, with
the earnings for the year offsetbydividend
paymentsof£12.3million,anacquisition of
minority interest of £12.5 million arising from
the increase in shareholding in DB Powerand
actuariallossesof£8.2millionarisingfrom the
Company’s pension arrangements, before the
related tax effects.
SERVING
INTERNATIONAL
MARKETS
27.3
30.0
2007
20.1
2006 2008
43.0
2009
48.5
2010
ADJUSTED OPERATING CASH FLOW*
£MILLION
+13% £48.5 MILLION
* SeeFinancialGlossaryonpage96. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 27
TREASURY OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group’s funding, liquidity and exposure
to interest rate and foreign exchange rate
risks are managed by the Group treasury
department. The treasury department uses
a combination of derivative and conventional
ﬁnancial instruments to manage these
underlying risks. Treasury operations are
conducted within a framework of Board-
approved policies and guidelines.
This function operates to reduce risk and
cost and no transactions are undertaken on
a speculative basis. The execution of ﬁnancial
instruments within the Company is conﬁned
to the Group treasury department.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND LIQUIDITY
The Group’s management is committed to
enhancing shareholder value, both by investing
in the businesses so as to improve the return
on investment and by managing capital
structure. The Group’s objective is to fund
its growth out of existing resources and debt,
such that it maintains a strong ﬁnancial position
and complies with its borrowing covenants.
CORE FACILITIES AND NET LIQUID FUNDS
The Group’s management policy regarding
liquidity risk is to ensure that it always has
sufﬁcient committed facilities available to
meet its foreseeable needs.
The Group policy is to manage its debt using
a number of three-year committed revolving
facilities together with a ﬁxed interest term
loan, which mature at different points to ensure
adequacy of funding. Interest is charged on
drawn debt at LIBOR* or equivalent plus an
appropriate margin. The Group’s committed
borrowing facilities at 31 March 2010 amount
to £150 million of which £71 million was drawn,
leaving borrowing headroom of £79 million
in addition to cash and cash equivalents
of £30 million. In addition, the Group has
uncommitted facilities of £16 million.
Of the £150 million of facilities, £90 million
matures after two years, £50 million between
one and two years and £10 million within the
next 12 months.
The directors have considered the Group’s
internal forecasts and projections that take into
account reasonably possible changes in trading
performance. The levels of committed facilities
have been compared to forecast borrowing
requirements. The directors have also analysed
the effect of forecast performance on covenant
compliance. Chloride has signiﬁcant headroom
in terms of both available facilities and in terms
of its operation within existing covenants.
Net debt* at 31 March 2010 stood at
£41 million, an increase of £25.6 million over
the prior year. Adjusted operating cash ﬂow*
of £48.5 million was offset by exceptional
payments for restructuring costs and pension
contributions of £3.1 million and £2.4 million
respectively, net capital expenditure of
£4.2 million, payments for interest, dividends
and tax of £26.2 million, acquisition payments
of £37.2 million and net issue of shares of
£0.7 million. Net debt comprises on demand
borrowingsof£1.5millionmostofwhichrelates
to the hedging of our overseas operations,
ﬁnance lease obligations of £0.4 million and
committed borrowings of £69 million less
cash and short-term deposits of £30 million.
In its principal overseas companies the
Company has on-demand overdraft and bill
discounting facilities to provide local funding
for operating and working capital requirements.
Drawings under these facilities provide
a partial hedge against assets held in local
currencies. The funding structures of our
UK and overseas operations are regularly
reviewed with the objective of achieving
the optimal post-tax ﬁnancing cost.
64.1
94.5
142.3
2007 2008 2009
132.5
2010
TOTAL EQUITY
£MILLION
-7% £132.5 MILLION
70.0
110.0
2007
70.0
2006 2008
115.0
-21.3 -21.8
-16.9 -15.4
2009
150.0
-41.0
2010
CORE FACILITIES AND DEBT
£MILLION
+30% £150.0 MILLION
● Core facilities available
● Net debt
* SeeFinancialGlossaryonpage96. Section 2: Operating review
FINANCIAL REVIEW
28 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
The Company also has adequate foreign
exchange contract and other facilities for
its day-to-day commercial and exposure-
matching needs.
Of the £1.5 million of on-demand borrowings
at 31 March 2010, £1.0 million is guaranteed
by Chloride Group PLC. The committed term
facilities are guaranteed by Chloride Group PLC
and contain common ﬁnancial covenants
regarding interest cover, a ceiling on net debt
and minimum consolidated shareholders’
funds. It is Group policy to manage the
consolidated balance sheet so as to operate
at all times well within covenanted restrictions.
CURRENCY RISK
The Group publishes its consolidated ﬁnancial
statements in sterling and conducts business
in many foreign currencies. As a result, it is
subject to foreign currency exchange risk
due to exchange rate movements which will
affect the Group’s transaction costs and the
translation of the results and underlying net
assets of its foreign operations.
Exchange differences arising on the translation
of foreign currency borrowings, where they are
inaneffectivehedgerelationship,arerecognised
in the statement of comprehensive income.
For currencies in which there is an active
market, the Group seeks to hedge its
transactional foreign exchange rate risk on a
transactional basis. Where the Company has
regular net foreign currency cash ﬂows which
are strongly predicted, the Company hedges its
net exposure using forward foreign currency
exchange contracts. The effective portion of the
gain or loss on the hedge is recognised in the
statement of comprehensive income tothe
extent it is effective and recycled into the
income statement when the underlying hedged
transaction impacts the income statement.
Apart from optimising expenses and interest
on local borrowings, the Group does not
believe, as an internationally based business,
that it is appropriate to hedge other aspects of
its proﬁt and loss account translation exposure.
Non-sterling currencies of primary importance
to the Group moved as follows in the year and
their impact is as follows:
Net assets are held in a number of currencies
and translated at year-end rates. This is
explained more fully in the note on accounting
policy. The resulting exposures are managed
where practicable by matching local currency
assets with local currency borrowings.
INTEREST RATE RISK
The majority of the Group’s borrowings
are at interest rates of LIBOR or EURIBOR*
plus a margin.
The Group’s policy is to review the ratio of
ﬁxed rate debt to total outstanding debt on
an ongoing basis to minimise the risk of major
interest rate ﬂuctuations over the medium to
long term, and to hedge as appropriate such
exposure through the use of ﬁxed rate term
debt and interest rate swaps.
SERVING
INTERNATIONAL
MARKETS
2010 2009 % 2010 2009 % Impact Impact Impact Impact
Year end Year end Change Average Average Change Sales Op profit Net debt Equity
US$ 1.52 1.43 6% 1.59 1.72 (-8%)
+£16m+£2.5m -£0.1m -£1.3m
Euro 1.12 1.08 4% 1.13 1.21 (-6%)
* See Financial Glossary on page 96. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 29
At 31 March 2010, the Group had a ratio of
ﬁxed rate debt to total outstanding debt of
approximately 22%. As of 31 March 2010 the
Group had £15 million of sterling term debt
with a ﬁxed rate of 4.94% and £0.4 million of
euro-denominated borrowings with an average
ﬁxed rate of 2.4%. At 31 March 2010, the
Company had entered into an interest rate
swap for €10 million at a rate of 1.95% which,
together with the margin on the underlying
loan, ﬁxes the rate at 3.70%. This swap will ﬁx
the rate of debt associated with the acquisition
of AEES and runs from 6 May 2010 for three
years. The remainder of borrowings are at
ﬂoating rate and predominantly LIBOR based.
The weighted average remaining period at
31 March 2010 for which the above debt was
ﬁxed was 27 months.
CREDIT RISK
The Group monitors its credit exposure to
its counterparties via their credit ratings
(where applicable) and through its policy,
thereby limiting its exposure to any one party
to ensure that they are within Board-approved
limits and that there are no signiﬁcant
concentrations of credit risk. The counterparties
to the ﬁnancial instruments transacted by
the Group are major international ﬁnancial
institutions. Group policy is to enter into such
transactions only with counterparties with
good long-term credit ratings.
USE AND FAIR VALUE OF
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
At 31 March 2010, outstanding forward
contracts existed with a gross book value
totalling £25.4 million in respect of actual
transaction exposures (2009: £14.1 million).
The net fair value of these forward foreign
exchange contracts was £(0.3) million at
31 March 2010 (2009: £0.3 million). In addition
to these forward contracts the Group is
exposed to foreign exchange movements
on its overseas borrowings.
At 31 March 2010, the €10 million three-year
interest swap had a value of £(0.1) million.
INSURANCE
The Group purchases insurance for
commercial or, where required, for legal or
contractual reasons. In addition, the Group
retains insurable risk where external insurance
is not considered an economic means of
mitigating these risks.
TAX RATE
The tax charge in 2010 represents an effective
rate of 31% (2009: 32%).
NEIL WARNER GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR Section 2: Operating review
RISK MANAGEMENT
30 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS
The Group, in common with other international
businesses, is exposed to a number of
potential risks (not all of which are within
its control) which may have a material effect
on its reputation, ﬁnancial or operational
performance. It is not possible to identify
or anticipate every risk that may affect the
Group, or the materiality of that risk. However,
Chloride recognises that the monitoring,
assessment and response to risks can provide
resilience, and even competitive advantage,
to the business. Accordingly, it is a matter
to which considerable attention is paid,
particularly in such uncertain economic times.
The Board has overall responsibility for risk
management and internal controls and is
assisted by the Audit Committee. Further
details of the Group’s system of internal
controls are contained in the corporate
governance report on page 39.
The Audit Committee has one meeting a year
dedicated to reviewing risk. In addition, internal
control and risk management actions, together
with Risk Committee updates are kept under
review at the Audit Committee meetings held
to consider the interim and full-year results.
It is assisted by the Risk Committee and the
Group Risk Manager.
The Risk Committee is chaired by the Finance
Director and comprises the Chief Executive
and other senior operational and head ofﬁce
management, including the Group Risk
Manager. Its core functions are to:
● assess and report to the Audit Committee
on the effectiveness of the Group’s
non-ﬁnancial and ﬁnancial internal
control systems;
● ensure that an embedded framework
for managing risks is in place throughout
the Group; and
● provide an appropriate level of reporting
on the status of risk management to
the operational management and to the
Audit Committee.
The Risk Committee meets twice a year
and the minutes are circulated to the Audit
Committee Chairman. All directors are entitled
to receive the Risk Committee papers, and to
attend the meetings.
The nature, likelihood and materiality of the
risks affecting each Group business are
assessed by operational management on
an annual basis. On the basis of these
assessments, the Risk Committee produces
a risk map for the Group as a whole, and the
summary of material risks is reviewed by the
Audit Committee and endorsed by the Board.
The risk assessment process applies both to
normal operational activities and to projects
which are signiﬁcant to the Group, where
a risk register is drawn up and monitored
by the Group Risk Manager throughout
the project.
As described in the corporate governance
report, there is an embedded process for
monitoring and controlling the identiﬁed risks
through monthly ﬁnancial and operational
reporting procedures. In addition, appropriate
levels of cover are maintained under the
Group insurance programme in respect
of insurable risks.
The Group Risk Manager monitors the
effectiveness of risk management and internal
controls through site reviews of Group
businesses. His visit programme is approved
annually by the Audit Committee. After each
site visit a report is prepared and presented
to local area Group management, and to the
Chairman of the Audit Committee. A copy is
also made available to the external auditors.
The Group Risk Manager is able to call on
additional resources from central staff and
external consultants as necessary. External
consultants also review health and safety and
environmental practices at selected sites on
the basis of a rolling schedule agreed with
the Group Risk Manager.
FINANCIAL RISKS
As an international business, the major
ﬁnancial risks faced by the Group are liquidity
risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and credit
risk. The Board regularly reviews these risks
and approves policies covering the use of
ﬁnancial instruments to manage ﬁnancial risk
and overall risk limits. A detailed summary of
the Group’s ﬁnancial risks and how these risks
are managed can be found in the ﬁnancial
review on pages 27 to 29.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements in this annual report are
forward looking. Although the Group believes
that the expectations contained in such
statements are reasonable, it can give no
assurance that these expectations will prove
to be correct. Actual results may differ
materially from those expressed in or implied
by these forward-looking statements. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 31
OPERATIONAL RISKS
There have been no major operational risks identiﬁed during the year other than those typical in a competitive environment –
key areas identiﬁed for ongoing management attention, and management’s response to them, continue to be:
RISK IMPACT MITIGATION
BUSINESS PRESSURES
● Product and service revenue fail to ● Decline in earnings growth ● Continued analysis of, and entry into,
continue to grow above market rate, ● Decline in margin growth new long-term potential markets
owing to market trends, third-party ● Continued entry into new market
activity, loss of competitive advantage, sectors in existing markets
and challenging economic conditions ● Product and service innovation to
maintain appeal of UPS solutions
offering in market
● Customer relations management
● Control of overheads
● Control of production costs
SUPPLY CHAIN SECURITY
● Loss of key supplier ● Delivery delays ● Strategic joint ventures
● Loss of contracts ● Strategic alternative suppliers
DISRUPTIONS TO OPERATIONS
● Loss of production capability ● Business interruption ● Disaster recovery planning
● IT systems failure ● Loss of revenue, profit and assets ● Flexible and global
● Loss of business goodwill manufacturing infrastructure
● Flexible and global IT infrastructure
● Major systems review 2010
PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT
● Loss of experience/skills/ ● Loss of business and reputation ● Career management
commercial relationships ● Incentivisation
● Failure of succession planning ● Succession planning throughout
and talent management the business
● Talent management programme
introduced 2009/2010
CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS
● Loss of customers/orders ● Loss of revenue/profit ● Maintain development and quality
owing to factors outside of complete UPS solutions
of the Group’s control ● Improve the geographic and sector
spread of customers
● Emphasis on service business as
driver of long-term relationships
COMPLEXITY OF INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS
● Economic conditions ● Currency translation ● Professional advice
● Political instability ● Increased costs ● Skilled local management
● Profit repatriation and tax issues ● Reduced revenues/proﬁts ● Treasury policy and planning
● Currency movements ● Tax rate increases ● Internal controls application
ACQUISITIONS/NEW MARKETS
● Identifying opportunities ● Diminution of growth rate ● Corporate development capacity
● Integration of acquired businesses ● Failure to meet strategic objectives ● Due diligence
● Start-up operations ● Integration planning and resource
● Standard business model roll out Section 3: Governance
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
32 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
NORMAN N BROADHURST FCA FCT
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Member of the Remuneration Committee
A non-executive director since March 1998,
and Chairman since August 2001. He previously
held a number of non-executive positions in
FTSE 100 companies. He was Finance Director
of Railtrack plc from 1994 until his retirement
in 2000. Age 68.
TIM R COBBOLD BSc ACA
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Member of the Nomination Committee
Joined the Board in June 2007 as Chief
Operating Ofﬁcer and became Chief Executive
in 2008. He qualiﬁed as a chartered accountant
in 1987 and joined TI Group PLC (now Smiths
Group) in 1989. Over his 18-year career with
Smiths Group he held a number of senior
management positions. Age 47.
NEIL W WARNER BA FCA MCT
FINANCE DIRECTOR
Joined Chloride and was appointed to the
Board as Finance Director in 1997. He was
with Ocean Group PLC (subsequently Exel plc
and now part of Deutsche Post World Net)
for six years from 1990, following appointments
in his earlier career with BICC Group PLC
(now Balfour Beatty plc), ALCOA and
PricewaterhouseCoopers. He is a non-executive
directorofDechraPharmaceuticalsPLC.Age57.
ERIC F TRACEY MCom FCA ACIS
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Member of the Remuneration and
Nomination Committees
A non-executive director since 1 September
2005, he was a partner in Deloitte from 1980
to 2004, including periods as head of Deloitte’s
European Energy Infrastructure and Utilities
practice, and as head of one of the audit
operating groups. He was seconded to Amey
plc as acting Finance Director, and was
Finance Director of Wembley PLC until August
2005. He is Senior Independent Director of
Findel plc, an Independent Director of NEC
Group Ltd and Burton’s Holdings Ltd and a
member of the Advisory Boards of Governance
for Owners LLP, Xero Live Ltd and NZ Trade
& Enterprise. Age 61.
GARY BULLARD BSc
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Member of the Audit and
Nomination Committees
A non-executive director since September
2005, he has his own management consulting
practice, focusing on the technology and
telecommunications sector. He is also the
Founder and CEO of Catquin, a company which
supports senior female executives in furthering
or diversifying their careers. Until July 2007
he was President, BT Global Services, with
responsibility for British Telecom’s corporate
and government customers. Previously he had
26 years’ experience at IBM, holding a number
of senior management positions in Europe and
the USA. Age 52.
JOHN L M HUGHES BSc
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Member of the Audit, Remuneration
and Nomination Committees
A non-executive director since January 2009.
He is also Chairman of Spectris PLC, Telecity
GroupPLCandIntecTelecomSystemsPLCas
well as Deputy Chairman of Parity Group PLC.
In his previous career he held a number of
senior positions in international companies
including Thales Group, Lucent and Hewlett-
Packard Company. Age 58.
PAUL J LESTER CBE BSc
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Member of the Audit, Remuneration and
Nomination Committees
A non-executive director since September
2007. He is Chief Executive of VT Group PLC,
the leading support services company. In
addition, he is a non-executive director of
Invensys PLC. In his previous career he held
a number of senior positions in international
companies including Schlumberger, Graseby
and Balfour Beatty. He is a visiting Professor
of Nottingham Trent University. Age 60. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 33
FROM LEFT TO RIGHT: Eric Tracey, Norman Broadhurst, Paul Lester,
John Hughes, Gary Bullard, Tim Cobbold and Neil Warner Section 3: Governance
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
34 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY AND BUSINESS REVIEW
The principal activity during the year under review was the supply of secure power solutions, including the manufacture and sale of uninterruptible
power supply systems and power conditioners, and after-sale technical support.
The business review on pages 8 to 31, which comprises the Chief Executive’s review, the ﬁnancial review, the risk management report and
the corporate social responsibility report, forms part of the directors’ report. The corporate governance statement on pages 37 to 40 also forms part
of the directors’ report. The business review comments on the Group’s performance and development during the ﬁnancial year, its position at the
end of the year, the key performance indicators, and the principal risks and uncertainties relating to the Group.
ACQUISITIONS
Details are set out in note 28 to the ﬁnancial statements on pages 86 to 89.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
The results for the year and the ﬁnancial position at 31 March 2010 are shown in the consolidated income statement on page 54 and the
consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position on page 55.
The directors recommend the payment of a ﬁnal dividend of 3.30p per share which, together with the interim dividend of 1.90p per share paid
on 2 December 2009 makes a total dividend for the year of 5.20p per share (2009: 4.70p). Payment of the ﬁnal dividend, if approved at the
Annual General Meeting (AGM), will be made on 2 August 2010 to shareholders on the record at the close of business on 9 July 2010.
GOING CONCERN
The results and ﬁnancial position of the Group, its cash ﬂows, borrowing facilities and liquidity are set out in pages 24 to 29 of the ﬁnancial
review and in note 21 on page 78. The outlook for trading performance of the Group is discussed in both the Chairman’s statement and the
Chief Executive’s review. Current economic conditions create uncertainty and make forecasting difﬁcult. The principal risks and uncertainties
that may affect the Group’s results and cash ﬂows and ﬁnancial position are discussed in the ﬁnancial review and the risk management report.
The Group’s committed borrowing facilities at 31 March 2010 amount to £150 million of which £71 million was drawn indicating an overall
borrowing headroom of £79 million in addition to cash and cash equivalents of £30 million. In addition, the Group has uncommitted facilities
of £16 million. Included in the committed facilities amount is one credit facility amounting to £10 million that expires in November 2010.
The Group is in discussions about the renewal or replacement of this facility.
The directors have considered the Group’s internal forecasts and projections that take into account reasonably possible changes in trading
performance. The levels of committed facilities have been compared to forecast borrowing requirements. The directors have also analysed the
effect of forecast performance on covenant compliance. Chloride has signiﬁcant headroom in terms of both available facilities and in terms of its
operation within existing covenants.
Based on the above, and after making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate
facilities to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing
the annual report and accounts.
SHARE CAPITAL
Details of the issued share capital, which comprises ordinary shares of 25p each, with equal voting rights, is given in note 26 to the ﬁnancial
statements starting on page 84.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares, and the provisions governing the appointment and replacement of, as well
as the powers of, the Company’s directors, are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies
House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the Company, except,
in the case of transfer of securities:
a) that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations (for example, insider trading laws); and
b) whereby, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, certain employees of the Company require the approval of the
Company to deal in the Company’s ordinary shares.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company. The Company is not aware of any
agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 35
It is a requirement of company law that any shares issued wholly for cash must be offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings
unless otherwise authorised by a resolution of the shareholders. The Notice of Annual General Meeting includes resolutions to renew for a period
of one year the directors’ power to allot shares and disapply pre-emption rights pursuant to sections 561 and 571 of the Companies Act 2006.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2009, an authority was given to the Company for a period of one year to make market purchases of its own
shares. A resolution will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to renew this authority for a further period of one year.
Further details of these resolutions are contained in the explanatory notes accompanying the Notice of Meeting.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
Amendments to the Articles of Association must be approved by a general meeting of the shareholders in accordance with legislation in force
from time to time.
DIRECTORS
Biographical details of the directors at the year end are set out on page 32. The Articles of Association provide for re-election of the directors every
second year. Norman Broadhurst, Gary Bullard, Paul Lester, Eric Tracey and Neil Warner retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for
re-election.
Information on compensation payable to executive directors and other senior executives as a result of dismissal in the event of a takeover is given
in the remuneration report, on page 48.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company are as shown in the remuneration report on pages 50 and 51.
The executive directors are deemed to have an interest in the Chloride Group Employee Beneﬁt Trust (the Trust) as potential discretionary
beneﬁciaries. Details of the shares held by the Trust as at 31 March 2010 are set out on page 36.
DIRECTORS’ AND OFFICERS’ LIABILITY
The Group maintains directors’ and ofﬁcers’ liability insurance. The Group also indemniﬁes its directors and ofﬁcers to the extent permitted by UK
law, including payment of defence costs in civil, criminal and regulatory proceedings. Such costs must be refunded in the event that the director
or ofﬁcer is subsequently convicted. Neither the insurance policy nor the deed of indemnity provides cover where the director has acted dishonestly
or fraudulently.
POLICY ON PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS
Appropriate terms and conditions are agreed for transactions with suppliers and payment is generally made on these terms.
The average number of days’ credit taken by the Company for trade purchases at the ﬁnancial year end was 39 days (2009: 38 days). The average
number of days’ credit taken by Group companies at the ﬁnancial year end was 72 days (2009: 69 days), reﬂecting different payment practices in
the various countries in which Chloride operates.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS
During the year donations of £9,517 (2009: £12,770) were made to charitable organisations which are associated with employees or closely linked
with the communities in which the Group operates. No political donations were made.
INTERESTS IN VOTING SHARES
At 12 May 2010, the Company had been notiﬁed of the following interests of 3% or more in the Company’s ordinary shares:
Number of % of issued
Name of holder shares shares
Threadneedle Investments 27,615,450 10.50
Black Rock 21,483,403 8.17
Mondrian Investment Partners 20,533,092 7.81
F&C Asset Management 14,572,290 5.54
Aegon Asset Management 10,504,519 3.99
Legal & General Investment Management 10,179,045 3.87
Standard Life Investments 9,995,558 3.80
Schroder Investment Management 8,659,308 3.29
Impax Asset Management 8,250,448 3.14
Montanaro Investment Managers 8,167,556 3.11 Section 3: Governance
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
36 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST
The Chloride Group Employee Beneﬁt Trust (the Trust) was established to acquire ordinary shares in the Company to satisfy rights to shares arising
on the exercise of executive share options.
During the year, the Trust made the following transfers and open market purchases of the Company’s ordinary shares:
Number of
shares
Balance at 1 April 2009 6,793,309
Transferred out (1,685,045)
Purchased 628,064
BALANCE AT 31 MARCH 2010 5,736,328
The Trust is funded by interest-free loans from the Company. The cost of the shares held by the Trust was £9.1 million and the market value
was £12 million at 31 March 2010. EES Trustees International Limited, as trustee of the Trust, has waived all past and future dividends on ordinary
shares held by the Trust except to the extent of 0.0001% of each dividend payable per share.
Voting rights in respect of shares held by the Trust are exercisable by the Trustee.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Investment in the development of new and improved products and applications is considered to be key to further improvement of the Group’s
competitive position. Programmes to upgrade existing technology, develop new products and software, reduce production and operating costs,
and improve services to customers receive high priority. Development engineers work closely with applications and software engineers and sales
and marketing staff in the operations to ensure that development is focused on the Group’s key markets. The Group has departments specialising
in the development of critical power protection solutions at Chicago, USA (power conditioners and software); Bologna, Italy and Erlangen, Germany
(AC power protection products), and Lyon, France (industrial systems). Product and software development is also carried out in Pune, India.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
The corporate social responsibility report starting on page 20 comments on the Group’s approach to corporate social responsibility, including health
and safety, environmental and employee issues.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting of the Company (AGM) will take place on 20 July 2010 at 11am, at the Royal Aeronautical Society, 4 Hamilton Place,
London W1J 7BQ. A letter from the Chairman accompanying the notice of meeting will provide information on the resolutions.
AUDIT INFORMATION
In accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 (the 2006 Act) each of the directors of the Company at the date
when this report was approved conﬁrms that:
● so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information (as deﬁned by the 2006 Act) of which the Group’s auditors are unaware; and
● he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information (as deﬁned) and
to establish that the Group’s auditors are aware of that information.
AUDITORS
Resolutions to reappoint the auditors, Deloitte LLP, and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
JON MESSENT SECRETARY
24 May 2010 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 37
COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE
The Board recognises its accountability to shareholders and is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance. The Board
considers that throughout the year under review the Company has complied with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2008 FRC
Combined Code on corporate governance (the Combined Code), and with the rules of the UK Listing Authority.
APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF THE COMBINED CODE
This report explains how the Company has applied the principles of the Combined Code to its activities. Section 1 of the Combined Code sets
out the main and supporting principles of good governance for companies, which are split into the following topics: directors; remuneration;
accountability and audit; and relations with shareholders.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Company currently operates with a Board of seven directors comprising the non-executive Chairman, four non-executive directors (including
the Senior Independent Director) and two executive directors. The number of directors and the balance between executives and non-executives
provides for effective operation and is considered appropriate to the Company’s size and scope of activities.
A schedule of formal meetings of the Board, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee is arranged each year in line with the
Company’s management reporting, and interim and annual reporting cycle. During the year, the Board met formally seven times, together with
a further meeting to review strategy. Attendance at meetings was as follows:
Board Strategy Audit Remuneration Nomination
(seven meetings) (one meeting) (three meetings) (four meetings) (no meeting)
Norman Broadhurst 71 n/a41
Gary Bullard 71341
Tim Cobbold 7 1 n/a n/a 1
John Hughes (2) 7124 –
Paul Lester 71341
Eric Tracey 71341
Neil Warner 7 1 n/a n/a n/a
Notes
(1) n/a means that the director is not a member of the Committee. Certain directors who are not committee members have attended meetings by invitation. Details are not included in the table.
(2) John Hughes was unable to attend one Audit Committee meeting and one Nomination Committee meeting, due to conflicting engagements that had been arranged prior to his appointment.
In addition to the formal schedule of meetings, the Board held discussions with senior operational managers on strategy, business development,
and other topics important to the Group’s progress.
The Board has reserved to itself powers relating to matters that it considers signiﬁcant to the Group’s business, operational and ﬁnancial risks.
These are set out in a formal schedule and include the approval of corporate policies, strategy, plans and budgets; major acquisitions and disposals
of companies or businesses; major investment and ﬁnancial decisions; appointments to the Board; executive remuneration policy and major
management or organisational changes.
The Chairman and Chief Executive have deﬁned roles, providing for a division of responsibilities between them, which have been documented and
approved by the Board. The Chairman is responsible primarily for the running of the Board, while the Chief Executive’s primary role is the running
of the business and the development and implementation of strategy.
The Chairman has been appointed for successive ﬁxed terms totalling 13 years. The other non-executive directors have each been appointed for
a term or successive terms totalling less than six years. The effective dates of the current terms of appointment are set out in the remuneration
report on page 44.
The Chairman met the Combined Code criteria for independence on his appointment in 2001. The Board considers that the other non-executive
directors are independent of management and free of any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their
independent judgement.
Section 3: Governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Section 3: Governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
38 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
At the forthcoming AGM, Norman Broadhurst, Gary Bullard, Paul Lester, Eric Tracey and Neil Warner retire in accordance with the Articles of
Association and will seek re-election. The Board has reviewed their performance and strongly supports their re-election, and recommends that
the shareholders vote in favour.
All the directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and senior managers generally, and may take independent
professional advice at the Company’s expense if they consider it necessary to do so in the furtherance of their duties.
The non-executive directors held one meeting during the year with the Chairman, without the executive directors present. In addition, and as noted
below, the senior independent director held individual meetings with each of the non-executive directors.
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board has three standing committees – the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, each with a different chairman. The Chairman chairs
the Nomination Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committee. All of the independent non-executive directors are permanent members
of the Committees. The Board considers that this is the most appropriate way of enabling the non-executives to participate in monitoring governance
issues, including executive remuneration, succession planning and risk management, without placing undue reliance on any one individual.
The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, which are based on the model terms of reference published by the
Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, are published on the Group’s website - www.chloridegroup.com.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Committee’s activities and responsibilities are described in the Audit Committee report on pages 41 and 42.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Committee’s activities and responsibilities are described in the Remuneration Committee report on page 43.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
The Committee’s terms of reference include the following responsibilities:
● making recommendations to the Board in respect of new appointments of executive and non-executive directors;
● succession planning for directors and senior executives; and
● making recommendations on reappointment of non-executive directors at the end of their term of appointment.
The Committee has a process for recommending Board appointments, based on a review of the skills of the other directors, development of
a speciﬁcation and employment of a ﬁrm of recruitment specialists to draw up a shortlist. Given that the Nomination Committee consists of all
the non-executive directors, the Chairman and the Chief Executive, matters relating to reappointment of non-executives and succession planning
are also handled within meetings of the main Board.
ACTIVITIES
During the year the Group developed its programme of talent management and succession planning at senior levels within the Group, including
the Board.
DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
Newly appointed directors receive a full induction, including a detailed information pack, visits to the Group’s operations and meetings with senior
divisional management. Training in the role and responsibilities of directors is offered on appointment, and subsequently as necessary.
The Board has a process for performance evaluation which has been applied to the Board and its Committees annually since 2003/2004.
As in previous years, in 2009/2010 the process was based on the completion of a questionnaire by the directors in relation to the Board and each
of the Committees of which they were members. The responses were collated, reviewed by the Chairman and distributed to the directors for
discussion at a Board meeting. In addition, the senior independent director conducted personal reviews with individual non-executive directors.
Performance evaluation relating to the Audit and Remuneration Committees is discussed in the Audit Committee report on page 42 and the
remuneration report on page 44. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 39
REMUNERATION
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for compliance with the Combined Code in determining executive directors’ remuneration.
The remuneration report on pages 43 to 51 demonstrates how Chloride applies the principles of the Combined Code relating to the level and
make-up of remuneration and to disclosure.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
FINANCIAL REPORTING
The Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s position and prospects, through the Chairman’s statement
and the directors’ report, which includes the business review (comprising the Chief Executive’s review, the ﬁnancial review, the risk management
report and corporate social responsibility report).
INTERNAL CONTROLS
The directors are responsible for the Group’s system of internal control which aims to: safeguard the Group’s assets; ensure that proper accounting
records are maintained; ensure compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements; and ensure the effectiveness and efﬁciency of operations,
including the assessment and management of risk. A system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve
business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance particularly against misstatement or loss.
Chloride has a well-established and embedded framework of internal ﬁnancial and operational control for identifying, evaluating and managing the
risks faced by the Group. The Audit Committee carries out an annual review of the effectiveness of the material controls, and the Board receives
regular information about the Group’s operations, enabling it to evaluate the nature and extent of the risks faced by the Group. The Board is therefore
able to conﬁrm that the system of internal control has been in place throughout the year under review, and up to the date of approval of the annual
report. The key elements of the framework of internal and operational control, which complies with the Turnbull guidance, are as follows:
● Directors have responsibility for setting the strategy and monitoring the conduct of the Group. The directors and the executive management of
the Group are accountable for their conduct and performance within the agreed strategies. A management structure exists with clearly deﬁned
lines of responsibility and the appropriate levels of delegation.
● The Group and its operations are subject to a detailed annual budget process and ongoing formal capital investment appraisal process. Actual
performance during the year is monitored monthly against budget, forecast and previous year, and full-year forecasts are updated at regular
intervals during the year, based on trended historical data and realistic macro-economic forecasts. These forecasts and results are presented
to the Board regularly. The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director prepare Board reports monitoring performance and actions to
achieve objectives.
● The Group and its subsidiaries operate control procedures designed to ensure complete and accurate accounting of ﬁnancial transactions,
and to limit the risk of loss of assets or fraud. Measures taken include physical controls, segregation of duty in key areas and internal reviews
and checks. The identiﬁcation, mitigation and monitoring of material risks are primarily the responsibility of operating company management.
During the budget and reporting cycle, general managers and ﬁnancial controllers are required to identify risks to which the business is exposed,
assess any potential impact and to put in place actions to reduce them. The Audit Committee agrees the key risks to the business, which are
endorsed by the Board and monitored throughout the year. It is assisted by the Risk Committee, the functions of which are set out in the risk
management report on page 30.
● Key functions such as tax, treasury, insurance, legal, personnel and systems are controlled centrally. Further information on policies to manage
ﬁnancial risk is contained in the ﬁnancial review on pages 27 to 29.
EXTERNAL AUDIT
The external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the Group’s annual report and accounts. They independently and objectively review
management’s reporting of the operational results and ﬁnancial position. They also review and test the systems of internal control and the data
contained in the annual report and accounts to the extent necessary for expressing their audit opinion. The policy on independence of auditors
is included in the Audit Committee report on page 42.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The Board and Audit Committee have reviewed the need for an internal audit function and consider that the Group Risk Manager, whose role is
described in the Risk Management Report on page 30, fulﬁls this function and discharges the Group’s responsibilities under the Combined Code.
However, in order to enhance further the internal audit function, and the value the function provides, further third-party audit resource is made
available to the Group Risk Manager as necessary. Section 3: Governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
40 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
Relations with shareholders receive the highest priority. The Company promotes dialogue with institutional shareholders and analysts through
regular meetings following the announcement of interim and ﬁnal results, and responds positively to invitations to enter into dialogue whenever
it considers it to be in the best interests of shareholders generally to do so. All directors are available to attend meetings with shareholders if
requested. The Senior Independent Director attends analysts’ presentations, and the Chairman or the Senior Independent Director also attend
meetings with institutional shareholders when possible. The views of shareholders and analysts are reported back to the Board.
The Company routinely communicates with shareholders six times a year, through the preliminary and interim results announcements, interim
management statements, and trading updates issued at the start of the close period before announcement of the full and half year results. At the
AGM there is an opportunity, following the formal business, for informal communication between investors and directors. In addition, information,
including the presentations made to institutional shareholders and analysts and recent announcements, is readily available to shareholders on the
Group’s website – www.chloridegroup.com. It is the Company’s practice to send the Notice of Annual General Meeting to shareholders at least
20 working days before the meeting. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 41
This Report has been prepared in accordance with the Combined Code by the Audit Committee of the Company and has been approved by the Board.
MEMBERSHIP
The Committee is made up of four non-executive directors, all of whom the Board considers to be independent. The members at 31 March 2010
were Eric Tracey (Chairman), Gary Bullard, John Hughes and Paul Lester. Mr Tracey has recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience gained through
his former positions as a partner in Deloitte and ﬁnance director of Amey PLC and Wembley PLC, and through his current roles at Governance for
Owners LLP, NEC Group Limited, Burton’s Holdings Limited, Xero Live Ltd, NZ Trade & Enterprise and Findel plc (details of other committee
members are shown on page 32).
The members bring extensive experience of corporate management in senior executive positions to the Committee.
RESPONSIBILITIES
The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in written terms of reference based on the model published by the Institute of
Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. The terms of reference are available on the Group’s website and include the following:
● monitoring the integrity of the ﬁnancial statements, reviewing the annual and interim reports in detail to ensure that they present a balanced
and understandable assessment of the Group’s position and prospects;
● reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls and risk management systems;
● overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, monitoring their independence, agreeing the scope of audit and monitoring the
effectiveness of the audit process;
● making recommendations to the Board on the requirement for an internal audit function and reviewing the effectiveness of internal audit; and
● reviewing the Group’s arrangements for whistleblowing.
The Committee has authority to investigate any matters within its terms of reference and has access to the resources and information it requires
for this purpose.
The Committee is entitled to obtain independent professional advice on matters within its terms of reference.
MEETINGS
The Committee met three times during the year – in May, October and January. The Company Secretary acted as secretary to the Committee and
the meetings were attended by invitation by the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Risk Manager and other senior ﬁnance staff.
The external auditors also attended the Committee meetings.
During the year, the Committee met with the auditors without executive managers being present. It also held a private meeting with the Group Risk
Manager. In addition, the Committee Chairman met regularly with the Group Risk Manager to review matters arising from his site visit reports and
with the external auditors.
Attendance at meetings by the Committee members was as set out in the corporate governance report on page 37.
ACTIVITIES
The meeting that took place in May 2009 was principally concerned with the draft ﬁnancial statements for the year ending 31 March 2009 together
with the draft preliminary results announcement. The Audit Committee also considered the report of the external auditors on the full-year audit,
concentrating on issues of judgement and audit focus identiﬁed in the audit plan, including a review of valuation assumptions, impairment reviews
and disclosures in the annual report. The steps taken to ensure that all relevant audit information had been disclosed to the auditors were reviewed,
enabling the directors to make the statement in the directors’ report on page 36. In addition, the Committee was updated on internal control and risk
management issues, in accordance with normal procedure.
Section 3: Governance
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Section 3: Governance
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
42 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
At the October meeting, in addition to an update on internal control and risk management issues, the Committee considered the draft interim
ﬁnancial statements for the period ending 30 September 2009, together with the draft interim results announcement. In addition, the audit scope
and fee proposal for 2009/2010 and audit expectations were reviewed and approved.
The meeting in January 2010 was concerned primarily with the review of the risk management process including the activities of the Risk
Committee, the outcome from risk control visits and the agreement of the Group Risk Manager’s visit plan for the forthcoming year. The external
audit plan for 2009/2010 was also considered and approved, and the external auditors reported on the structure in place to ensure their
independence. The insurance arrangements for 2009/2010 were also considered.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
COMMITTEE PERFORMANCE
During the year, the Committee reviewed its performance through the process described in the corporate governance report on page 38.
The Committee considered it had the skills to perform its responsibilities, particularly through Mr Tracey’s ﬁnancial and audit experience.
Actions for improvement focused on training requirements and adding resource to the Group Risk Management function to ensure that the
scope of activity could be maintained throughout the year.
AUDIT EFFECTIVENESS
The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the audit process following the 2008/2009 audit, and shared its ﬁndings with the auditors.
The Committee considered that in addition to a high level of technical competence and objectivity, the auditors demonstrated a clear
understanding of the business and communicated the issues of judgement and focus effectively to the Committee.
Based on the Committee’s view of the performance of the external auditors and on the planning and execution of the 2009/2010 audit,
the Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE
In order to maintain the independence of the external auditors, the Company has a policy for determining the types of non-audit work for which
it is appropriate to use the external auditors, including a clearance procedure for fees. The Committee is satisﬁed that these procedures have been
followed during the year, and that the external auditors have in place robust procedures, including the rotation of audit staff and partners, to ensure
their independence, preserve objectivity and comply with regulatory and professional requirements. The Committee has also reviewed the
performance of the external auditors with the help of questionnaires completed by all of the directors and relevant senior management members.
As stated in note 5 to the ﬁnancial statements, audit fees of £433,000 were payable to Deloitte together with non-audit fees of £168,000 relating
to taxation advisory and compliance services. The Audit Committee considers that this balance is appropriate and does not constitute a threat
to the auditors’ independence.
This report was approved by the Board on 24 May 2010 and signed on its behalf by
ERIC TRACEY CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 43
This report is presented in accordance with the relevant provisions of Schedule 8 to the Accounting Regulations under the Companies Act 2006
and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Combined Code). The Regulations require the auditors to report on the “auditable part”
of the remuneration report. The audited information has therefore been separately highlighted.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
RESPONSIBILITIES
The role and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are set out in written terms of reference based on the model published by the Institute
of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, which are available on the Group’s website and include the following:
● determination of the policy for remuneration of the executive directors and designated senior managers;
● determination of individual remuneration packages for the executive directors and designated senior managers;
● consideration of executive directors’ service agreements, pensions and related matters;
● making recommendations to the Board on the design of share incentive plans;
● exercise of all powers and discretions of the directors in connection with the Company’s share-based arrangements; and
● review and note annually the remuneration trends across the Group.
During the year the Committee undertook a detailed review of its remuneration policy and arrangements, supported by its advisors and with full
consultation with major shareholders, the ABI and RiskMetrics. It decided that:
● remuneration packages should be market competitive. Compared to companies in the lower half of the FTSE 250 (Chloride was 260th in the
FTSE at the time), the Committee found that the Chief Executive’s total target remuneration (and base salary) was signiﬁcantly below median,
whilst the Finance Director’s total target pay was around median;
● there should be sufﬁcient incentive pay to appropriately incentivise management and the performance criteria on vesting of long-term incentives
are appropriate;
● there should be sufﬁcient remuneration “at risk” to help retain executives;
● there should be increased alignment of management and shareholder interests through greater share ownership; and
● the current arrangements should be brought into line with good practice.
Chloride has performed well over recent years with its proﬁt growing in each year over the three years to March 2009. Since then the economic
climate has become more challenging, but the Committee considers that management has done an excellent job of maintaining proﬁts around
current levels through very difﬁcult economic circumstances, and that there is a platform to resume earnings growth. In addition, over the last
three years (to 31 March 2010), Chloride’s TSR has outperformed the FTSE 250 Index by over 25%.
As evidenced by these achievements, the Committee considers that the senior management team is of a high calibre and highly marketable and
that it is in the shareholders’ interests that their remuneration packages are competitive and, in particular, that there is substantial performance-
related pay.
As a result, the Committee has decided to make some changes to its remuneration policy:
● increase the base salary of the Chief Executive to the median market level;
● increase the level and length of compulsory deferral of the annual bonus, as well as introducing bonus clawback;
● at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, seek shareholder approval for a new Share Matching Plan, which will be operated for the ﬁrst
time in 2011;
● make some amendments to the Performance Share Plan to bring it into line with best practice and to allow greater ﬂexibility. Shareholder
approval is required for some of these changes and will be sought at the Annual General Meeting;
● introduce shareholding guidelines for the Executive Directors.
Section 3: Governance
REMUNERATION REPORT Section 3: Governance
REMUNERATION REPORT
44 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
As a result of these changes, the Chief Executive’s total target remuneration is slightly above median. The Committee believes that this is appropriate
given the substantial proportion of the package related to long-term incentives and the strong performance of the Chief Executive since appointment.
The Committee believes these changes will increase the alignment of executives’ interests with shareholders and further increase the retentiveness
of the packages. Further details of these changes are set out in the relevant sections of this report and in the Notice of AGM.
MEMBERSHIP
The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year were Gary Bullard (Chairman), Norman Broadhurst, John Hughes, Paul Lester
and Eric Tracey.
ADVISERS
During the year, the Remuneration Committee received advice on remuneration of executive directors and senior executives from the Chief
Executive and the Group Human Resources Director, neither of whom took part in the determination of their own remuneration. Advice was also
received from the Company Secretary in relation to the operation of the Company’s share-based incentive plans. Advice was obtained from Hewitt
New Bridge Street (HNBS), who were appointed by the Remuneration Committee to advise on executive remuneration, and long-term incentive
arrangements, including employee share schemes. HNBS has no other connection with the Company.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
During the year, the Remuneration Committee reviewed its performance through the process outlined in the corporate governance report
on page 38. The Remuneration Committee considered that it had the skills and experience to perform its responsibilities.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
POLICY ON REMUNERATION
The fees of non-executive directors and the Chairman are determined by the Board and were reviewed during the year. The policy is to set fees
at the median level relative to companies with a comparable market capitalisation. Fees do not contain any performance-related element and the
non-executive directors do not participate in the Chloride Pension Scheme or in the share option or performance share schemes. Additional fees
are paid for chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, reﬂecting the additional workload and responsibility of these appointments.
Non-executive directors have no entitlement to compensation for early termination of their term of appointment, and take no part in the determination
of their own remuneration.
Details of the fees paid during the year are included in the table headed “Summary of remuneration” on page 49.
The annual fee level for 2010/2011 is as follows:
2010/2011 2009/2010
Fee Fee
Office £000 £000
Chairman 125.0 115.0
Non-executive director 40.0 36.5
Remuneration Committee chairmanship additional fee 5.0 5.0
Audit Committee chairmanship additional fee 6.0 6.0
TERM OF APPOINTMENT
The non-executive directors are appointed for speciﬁed terms of up to three years. Their letters of appointment have no contractual notice period,
and the appointment of each non-executive director is subject to re-election by shareholders on retirement by rotation, which occurs every two
years. The dates on which the current respective letters of appointment came into effect are as follows: Norman Broadhurst – 21 April 2010;
Gary Bullard and Eric Tracey – 2 December 2008; Paul Lester – 1 September 2007 and John Hughes – 1 January 2009. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 45
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
POLICY ON REMUNERATION
The policy is to provide a combination of salary, short- and long-term incentives and beneﬁts, which form a competitive and fair total remuneration
package. Performance-related remuneration, in the form of annual bonus and performance shares, comprises a signiﬁcant proportion of the total
remuneration opportunity. It is only receivable if stretching performance targets, which require substantial improvement in ﬁnancial performance
and, in the case of performance shares, superior total shareholder return, are achieved.
COMPONENTS OF THE REMUNERATION PACKAGE
BASE SALARY
The base salary of each executive director is reviewed annually, taking into account the responsibilities and performance of the individual together
with independently furnished information on rates for similar jobs. In particular, base salaries recognise salary levels in a group of comparably sized
companies. Details of salaries, bonuses and beneﬁts paid to executive directors during the year are included in the table headed “Summary of
remuneration” on page 49.
The basic annual salaries of Tim Cobbold and Neil Warner with effect from 1 April 2010 are:
T R Cobbold – £400,000
N W Warner – £255,000
These represent a 14.3% increase for Tim Cobbold and a 2% increase for Neil Warner. With regard to Tim Cobbold’s salary increase, the Committee
believes he is a young, highly talented Chief Executive. Initially, he was recruited as Chief Operating Ofﬁcer and then was appointed Chief Executive
in 2008 on a below market salary and he did not receive an increase in 2009. Reﬂecting his strong performance, the Committee believes it is now
appropriate and necessary to pay him a market median salary.
ANNUAL BONUS
Chloride operates annual incentive plans for certain employees, including executive directors. Eligibility for inclusion in such schemes and the
measures of performance to be used are decided annually, taking account of key business issues.
For the executive directors and two senior executives, the maximum award under the 2009/2010 annual incentive plan was 100% of base salary.
The ﬁnancial measure applicable to 80% of the annual bonus for executive directors was adjusted earnings per share compared with the previous
year, with on-target performance being containment to a 7% decline and maximum bonus payable at 7% growth. Chloride’s EPS growth was within
this range in 2009/2010 warranting a bonus payment of 56% of salary for the Directors. The balance of the bonus, up to 20% of the maximum, was
dependent on achievement of personal objectives; for example, key strategic initiatives and Chloride’s CRS and environmental performances.
To date, bonus amounts earned up to 55% of base salary are paid in cash. If the bonus earned exceeds 55% of base salary, the bonus earned
between 50% and 75% of base salary is deferred into shares which are released after two years, normally subject to the executive director/senior
executive remaining in the Group’s employment. Bonus payable in excess of 75% of base salary is payable in cash.
The maximum bonus potential for 2010/2011 will be retained at the current level and performance again will be dependent on the achievement of
stretching EPS growth targets (80% of bonus) and personal objectives (20% of bonus). However, for 2010/2011 and onwards the structure of the
deferral will be changed so that one-third of any bonus earned will be deferred in shares and the deferral period will be lengthened to three years.
In addition, a clawback provision has been added so that individuals would have to repay/forfeit some or all of their bonus (both cash and deferred
shares) if there were subsequently found to be a material misstatement of results.
Bonus shares earned by the executive directors under the deferred bonus plan and not yet released by the Company are included in the table
headed “Interests under share plans” starting on page 50. Bonuses earned by the executive directors and senior executives under annual incentive
plans are not pensionable. Section 3: Governance
REMUNERATION REPORT
46 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
BENEFITS IN KIND
The taxable beneﬁts provided to executive directors during the year under review were use of a fully expensed car or car allowance, life insurance
and medical cover.
PENSIONS
During the year, the executive directors were members of the ﬁnal salary section of the Chloride 1996 Pension Scheme (the 1996 Scheme).
The 1996 Scheme is a funded, contributory, HMRC-approved, occupational pension scheme which is contracted into the State Earnings-Related
Pension Scheme. It provides a pension of up to two-thirds of ﬁnal pensionable earnings (up to normal retirement age under the Scheme),
depending on service. The 1996 Scheme also provides for dependants’ pensions and lump sums on death in service.
The table headed “Pension entitlements” on page 49 shows the retirement beneﬁts, excluding voluntary contributions, which accrued under the
deﬁned beneﬁt section of the 1996 Scheme to the executive directors during the year, together with the total accrued annual pension to which
each of them would be entitled under deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements on leaving service.
With effect from 6 April 2006, the 1996 Scheme adopted a cap on pensionable salary in place of the statutory earnings cap, which is cost neutral
to the Group. The pension beneﬁts of the executive directors are subject to this cap and they each received salary supplements in relation to salary
in excess of the cap. The amount of these payments is shown in the table on page 49 headed “Summary of Remuneration”.
EXECUTIVE SHARE INCENTIVE POLICY
The Board encourages executive directors to build and maintain holdings of shares in the Company and believes that the potential for increased
share ownership which is provided by share-based incentive schemes is an important element in promoting closer alignment of the interests
of shareholders and executive directors. The current policy is to make annual grants of awards under the Performance Share Plan. Subject to
shareholder consent, from 2011 awards will also be made under the Share Matching Plan. Further details about this are set out below.
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN
The maximum annual value of shares which can be granted under the Performance Share Plan (PSP) is 100% of salary and this is the level of award
which is currently made to the Executive Directors. Shareholder approval is being sought at the Annual General Meeting to introduce a limit of 200%
of salary in exceptional circumstances, although Chloride’s major shareholders will be consulted before making any awards above 100% of salary.
In addition, approval is being sought to allow participants to receive a payment (in cash or shares) of an amount equivalent to the dividends that
would have been paid on vested awards between grant and vesting. This will only be applicable to awards granted in 2011 and onwards.
Awards granted under the PSP are normally exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of the award, to the extent that a total shareholder
return (TSR) performance target is met over a ﬁxed performance period of three ﬁnancial years. TSR was chosen as it aligns the interests of the
directors with shareholders by requiring superior TSR performance compared to its peers. The TSR target for grants up to June 2008 compares
the Company’s TSR with that of constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding Investment Trusts). Once the Company became a constituent
of the FTSE 250 Index (excluding Investment Trusts), the Committee decided that the Company’s TSR should be measured against that index for
awards granted from June 2008 onwards.
The vesting schedule for already granted awards and 2010 awards is as follows:
Chloride’s ranking % of awards which vest
Below median 0%
Median 30%
Between median and upper quartile Straight line between 30% and 100%
Upper quartile 100%
In addition, no awards vest under the PSP unless the Company’s EPS growth is at least equal to the growth in the Retail Prices Index plus 2% p.a.
over the performance period.
Subject to approval being obtained for the amendments to the Performance Share Plan, the plan will also be amended so that (i) for awards in 2011
and onwards the level of vesting at median will be reduced from 30% to 25% of salary, (ii) in future, to reﬂect current good practice, awards which
vest in “good leaver” circumstances normally will be time pro-rated in addition to being performance linked and (iii) to be consistent with the
provisions of the new Share Matching Plan, future awards will be exercisable from vesting until the tenth anniversary of the award date to provide
some ﬂexibility to employees to choose the year in which to pay tax on their shares.
The awards granted in 2006 met the performance conditions in full and became exercisable in the year. The performance conditions for the 2007
awards were also met in full as at 31 March 2010 and these awards will become exercisable in June 2010. The TSR calculation is independently
calculated by HNBS. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 47
SHARE MATCHING PLAN
At the 2010 AGM, approval will be sought for the introduction of a Share Matching Plan (“SMP”). The ﬁrst awards under this plan will be made
in 2011. It is anticipated that only executive directors and senior executives will participate.
Deferred shares from the annual bonus plan (equivalent to one-third of any bonus) will be subject to a match by the Company under the SMP.
In addition, executive directors and senior executives will also be able to voluntarily invest up to another third of any bonus in shares which will also
be subject to a match by the Company. The Remuneration Committee will have the ability to set the precise level of voluntary deferral each year,
but this cannot be more than a third of the bonus.
Awards will vest after three years subject to continued employment and the satisfaction of speciﬁed performance conditions and the retention of
the invested shares. The maximum match will be 2:1 (Company: Employee) on the gross investment for a stretch level of performance and the
threshold level of match will be 0.5:1 (Company: Employee). The performance conditions applying to SMP Shares will be based on challenging
compound EPS growth targets compared to the Retail Prices Index over three years. The precise targets will be discussed with major shareholders
in 2011 and a speciﬁc resolution will be brought before shareholders for approval at the 2011 Annual General Meeting (before the ﬁrst awards
are made).
The Committee believes that the SMP will further increase the alignment between management and shareholders, and facilitate greater share
ownership by management.
EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION SCHEMES
No grants have been made under the Chloride Group 2001 Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) since [2005] and there are no plans to grant
options in future. If awards are made under this scheme and the Performance Share Plan then there is as an aggregate limit of two times basic
salary. In calculating the value of awards, a performance share is deemed equal to two ESOS awards. Options granted under this scheme are
normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant, on condition that earnings per share growth targets are met
over a period of three consecutive years.
Prior to the Chloride Group 2001 ESOS, the Company operated the Chloride Group 1994 Share Option Scheme and the 1996 Share Option Scheme,
under which HMRC-approved options and, in the case of the 1996 Scheme, unapproved options were granted to executive directors as well as
senior executives. No further options can be granted under the 1994 or 1996 schemes. Options granted under the 1994 and 1996 Schemes are
normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant and were subject to meeting performance targets relating to
EPS growth.
There are no outstanding options held by a director under any of the above option schemes. Details of the options exercised by Neil Warner are
set out in the table on page 50 headed “Interests under Share Plans”.
SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES
Executive directors will be expected to build up and maintain a shareholding of 100% of salary. Until this level of shareholding is achieved,
executive directors will have to retain 50% of all vesting share awards (after tax) until the guideline is met. This retention of some vested shares
will take effect in 2010 in relation to deferred shares and PSP awards (and will apply to SMP awards when they start to vest).
SAVINGS-RELATED SHARE OPTION SCHEME
The Group operates a savings-related share option scheme – the 2007 Scheme, which expires in July 2017. Under the Scheme, options – which
are available to eligible UK employees who contract to save a speciﬁed monthly amount – are not normally exercisable until the expiry of three or,
depending on an individual’s initial election, ﬁve years from the contract start date.
The 1997 savings-related share option scheme expired in July 2007, and no further options can be granted under it.
The outstanding interests of the executive directors under all executive share option schemes, the savings-related share schemes and the
PSP are set out in the table starting on page 50 headed “Interests under Share Plans”. Section 3: Governance
REMUNERATION REPORT
48 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
CONTRACTS OF EMPLOYMENT
Each of the executive directors has a rolling contract of employment, terminable on 12 months’ notice if terminated by the Company and
six months’ notice if terminated by the director.
The executive directors’ current contracts of employment became effective on the following dates:
Tim Cobbold – 29 July 2008
Neil Warner – 23 April 1997
In the event of termination by the Company, each of the executive directors would be entitled to 12 months’ salary, pension beneﬁts, salary
supplement and beneﬁts in kind. In an appropriate case the Company would have regard to the departing director’s duty to mitigate loss. However,
the contracts of employment of the directors contain special terms relating to dismissal following a change of control of the Company, under which
they would each be entitled to receive a prescribed payment made up of 12 months’ salary and beneﬁts including a bonus payment of 20% of basic
salary. Four senior executives also have contracts of employment containing this formula for a prescribed compensation payment on dismissal
following a change of control. However, in line with best practice, no bonus will be included in contracts for any directors appointed in future.
No compensation payments were made to executive or non-executive directors during the year.
POLICY ON EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The current policy is that executive directors should not take on more than one major outside appointment and then only with the prior approval
of the Board. Fees associated with any such appointment will normally be retained by the individual. During the year, fees received and retained
were as follows:
Fee
£000 Company
Neil Warner 38.75 Dechra Pharmaceuticals plc
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
The graphs set out below show the performance of the Company over the last ﬁve ﬁnancial years in terms of TSR, relative to the FTSE Small Cap
Index and the FTSE 250 Index (both excluding investment trusts). The graphs demonstrate the comparative TSR in terms of annual movements.
31 Mar 10 31 Mar 08 31 Mar 09 31 Mar 07 31 Mar 06 31 Mar 05
● CHLORIDE ● FTSE SMALL CAP INDEX (excluding investment trusts)
31 Mar 10 31 Mar 08 31 Mar 09 31 Mar 07 31 Mar 06 31 Mar 05
● CHLORIDE ● FTSE 250 INDEX (excluding investment trusts)
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN £ TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN £ CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 49
AUDITED INFORMATION
SUMMARY OF REMUNERATION
2010
Fees/ Performance-
basic related Salary Other 2009
salary bonus supplement benefits Note Total Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
CHAIRMAN
N N Broadhurst 115.0––– 115.0 115.0
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
T R Cobbold 350.0 255.5 45.3 37.4 1,2&3 688.2 772.5
K H Hodgkinson –––– 6 – 268.4
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
N W Warner 250.0 155.0 63.2 15.6 1&2 483.8 541.4
NON-EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS
G Bullard 41.5––– 4 41.5 39.8
J L M Hughes 36.5––– 36.5 9.1
P J Lester 36.5––– 36.5 36.5
R S Southwell –––– 7 – 13.8
E F Tracey 42.5––– 5 42.5 42.5
Aggregate remuneration 872.0 410.5 108.5 53.0 1,444.0 1,839.0
Notes
1 Of the performance-related bonuses, the following amounts will be deferred into shares in accordance with the Deferred Bonus Share Plan rules: Tim Cobbold – £80,500; Neil Warner – £30,000.
Performance-related bonuses are earned in respect of the year under which they are shown but are not paid until the following year.
2 Payments listed in the column entitled “salary supplement” represent payments made to the executive directors in lieu of pension contributions.
3 The column headed “other benefits” comprises accommodation benefits amounting to £17,500. These payments terminated in the year.
4 Fees for Mr Bullard included a payment of £5,000 for chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee.
5 Fees for Mr Tracey included a payment of £6,000 for chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
6 Mr Hodgkinson retired as a director at the Company’s AGM on 29 July 2008 and as an employee on 30 November 2008.
7 Mr Southwell retired as a director at the Company’s AGM on 29 July 2008.
PENSION ENTITLEMENTS
Transfer Transfer
Increase in value of value of Increase in
accrued Transfer Accumulated accrued accrued transfer value
Years of Increase in pension value of total accrued pension pension during the
pensionable accrued during Directors’ increase (net pension benefits benefits year (net of
Age at service at pension the year compulsory of directors’ as at as at as at directors’
31 March 31 March during (excluding contributions compulsory 31 March 31 March 31 March compulsory
2010 2010 the year inflation) in 2009/2010 contributions) 2010 2009 2010 contributions)
££££££££
T R Cobbold 47 2 years 3,590 3,671 12,360 20,362 9,340 45,513 85,134 27,261
10 months
N W Warner 56 12 years 5,204 5,734 12,360 60,064 42,579 663,787 807,193 131,046
11 months
Notes
1 The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement under the terms of the Chloride 1996 Pension Scheme based on service to 31 March 2010.
2 The transfer values (and their increases) in columns 6, 8, 9 and 10 have been calculated in accordance with legislation.
3 The amount shown in column 6 is the value of the pension accrued over the year and is based on financial conditions at the end of the year. The figure in column 10 shows the movement
in the value of the total pension entitlement and reflects changes in market conditions as well as pension accrual over the year.
4 The normal retirement age for directors is 65. The transfer values assume that Mr Warner can receive his benefits accrued before 1 April 2006 starting on 31 March 2010 and his benefits
accrued after 31 March 2006 at age 65 and that Mr Cobbold receives his benefits at age 65.
The transfer values shown in the above table are a liability of the 1996 Scheme. The above table combines the disclosures required by the Listing
Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the Regulations. Section 3: Governance
REMUNERATION REPORT
50 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
INTERESTS UNDER SHARE PLANS The directors’ interests in share options, performance shares (all of which were granted for nil or nominal
consideration) and in deferred bonus shares, as at 31 March 2010, were as follows:
Number of ordinary shares under option
(Exercised/
At lapsed) At
Date Option 1 April /granted 31 March Normal exercise period
of grant price 2009 2009/2010 Note 2010 From To
EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION SCHEMES
N W Warner 30.05.2000 135.5p 80,000 (80,000) 1, 2, 3 – 30.05.2003 29.05.2010
01.06.2005 65.875p 266,803 (266,803) 1, 2, 3 – 01.06.2008 31.05.2015
346,803 (346,803) –
Total 346,803 (346,803) –
Aggregate gains made by directors on the exercise of share options in the year were £724,146 (2009: £265,832).
Number of ordinary shares under option
(Exercised/ Market
At lapsed) price At 31
Date Option 1 April /granted at date March Normal exercise period
of grant price 2009 2009/2010 of award Note 2010 From To
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN
T R Cobbold 12.06.2007 nil 144,578 – 169.25p 1, 4 144,578 12.06.2010 11.06.2011
10.06.2008 nil 99,800 – 251.50p 4 99,800 10.06.2011 09.06.2012
01.08.2008 nil 26,272 – 252.50p 4 26,272 01.08.2011 31.07.2012
03.06.2009 nil – 226,171 149.00p 4 226,171 03.06.2012 02.06.2013
270,650 226,171 496,821
N W Warner 09.06.2006 nil 245,989 (245,989) 96.00p 1, 5 – 09.06.2009 08.06.2010
12.06.2007 nil 144,578 – 169.25p 1, 4 144,578 12.06.2010 11.06.2011
10.06.2008 nil 99,800 – 251.50p 4 99,800 10.06.2011 09.06.2012
03.06.2009 nil – 161,551 149.00p 4 161,551 03.06.2012 02.06.2013
490,367 (84,438) 405,929
Total 761,017 141,733 902,750
Notes
1 Performance condition met.
2 The performance condition for the 2000 option grant required the Company’s share price to outperform the FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding investment trusts) in six out of any nine consecutive
months from the 28th month following the date of grant, and for growth in the Company’s adjusted earnings per share to exceed that of the UK Retail Prices Index over a period of at least three
financial years. The performance condition for the 2005 option required the growth in the Company’s Adjusted EPS to exceed the growth in the UK Retail Prices Index by at least 3% p.a. compound.
3 The share price at the date of exercise, 15 February 2010, was 174.50p.
4 Performance condition requires that the Company’s total shareholder return over a fixed period of three financial years be at least median against the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment
trusts). For awards before June 2008 the comparator group was the FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding investment trusts). In addition, growth in the Company’s earnings per share must exceed
the growth in the UK Retail Prices Index by 2% per annum over the same period.
5 The share price at the date of exercise, 4 August 2009, was 146.00p.
The mid-market price of an ordinary share as at 31 March 2010 was 210.10p (2009: 125.00p). The mid-market price ranged during the year from
a low of 128.00p (2009: 111.75p) to a high of 213.90p (2009: 283.25p).
At (Exercised)/ At
Date Option 1 April granted 31 March Normal exercise period
of grant price 2009 2009/2010 Note 2010 From To
SAVINGS-RELATED SHARE
OPTION SCHEME
T R Cobbold 05.12.2007 166.0p 5,783 – 5,783 01.02.2011 31.07.2011
N W Warner 02.12.2008 128.0p 13,085 – 13,085 01.02.2014 31.07.2014
Total 18,868 – 18,868 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 51
DEFERRED BONUS SHARE PLAN
Market At (Exercised) At
Date price at date 1 April /granted 31 March Normal exercise period
of award of award 2009 2009/2010 Note 2010 From To
Tim Cobbold 10.06.08 251.50p 19,960 – 19,960 01.04.10 31.03.11
01.07.09 153.50p – 52,970 52,970 01.04.11 31.03.12
19,960 52,970 72,930
N W Warner 07.06.07 166.00p 29,096 (29,096) 1 – 01.04.09 31.03.10
10.06.08 251.50p 23,952 – 23,952 01.04.10 31.03.11
01.07.09 153.50p – 41,322 41,322 01.04.11 31.03.12
53,048 12,226 65,274
Total 73,008 65,196 138,204
The deferred bonus shares noted above do not include any to be awarded in respect of the year ending 31 March 2010. The qualifying condition
requires the recipient to remain in the Group’s employment until the date of maturity.
Notes
1 The market price at the date of exercise, 4 August 2009, was 146.00p.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES
The directors had the following interests in shares of the Company:
Number of Number of
ordinary ordinary
shares shares
31 March 2010 1 April 2009
N N Broadhurst 12,000 12,000
G Bullard 45,000 35,000
T R Cobbold 29,092 29,092
J L M Hughes – –
P J Lester 3,000 3,000
E F Tracey 10,000 10,000
N W Warner 258,389 258,389
In addition to the interests disclosed above, all of which are beneﬁcial, Tim Cobbold and Neil Warner are each regarded as having a technical interest
in the ordinary shares in the Company held by the Chloride Group Employee Beneﬁt Trust (see page 36). Neither of them is entitled to receive from
the Trust more shares than may be allocated to him upon exercise of options under any of the incentive plans shown above. The Trust held
5,736,328 shares on 31 March 2010 (2009: 6,793,309).
There have been no changes in the beneﬁcial holdings of the directors between 31 March and 23 May 2010.
This Report was approved by the Board on 24 May 2010 and signed on its behalf by
GARY BULLARD CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Section 3: Governance
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT
52 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year. Under that law the directors are required to prepare the
Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of
the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent company ﬁnancial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the EU. Under company law
the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of
the proﬁt or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing these ﬁnancial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors:
● properly select and apply accounting policies;
● present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information;
● provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speciﬁc requirements in IFRSs are insufﬁcient to enable users to understand the impact
of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s ﬁnancial position and ﬁnancial performance; and
● make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufﬁcient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the ﬁnancial statements comply
with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the Company’s website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparationand disseminationof ﬁnancial statementsmay differ from legislationin other jurisdictions.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
We conﬁrm that to the best of our knowledge:
● the ﬁnancial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of
the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
● the management report, which is incorporated into the directors’ report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the
business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
T R COBBOLD CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER N W WARNER GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR
24 May 2010 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 53
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements of Chloride Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2010 which comprise the consolidated income
statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Group and parent company statements of ﬁnancial position, the Group
and parent company statements of cash ﬂow, the Group and parent company statements of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 34.
The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs)
as adopted by the European Union and as regards the parent company ﬁnancial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the
Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and
the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the ﬁnancial statements
and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s)
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give reasonable assurance that
the ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately
disclosed; the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements.
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In our opinion:
● the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 March 2010 and
of the Group’s proﬁt for the year then ended;
● the Group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union;
● the parent company ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
● the ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group
ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006
In our opinion:
● the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
● the information given in the directors’ report for the ﬁnancial year for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is consistent with the
ﬁnancial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
● adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from
branches not visited by us; or
● the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the
accounting records and returns; or
● certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law are not made; or
● we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
● the directors’ statement contained within the directors’ report in relation to going concern; and
● the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined
Code speciﬁed for our review.
COLIN HUDSON (SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR)
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF DELOITTE LLP, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS AND STATUTORY AUDITORS
London, United Kingdom
24 May 2010
Section 4: Financial statements and notes
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CHLORIDE GROUP PLC Section 4: Financial statements and notes
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
54 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
2010 2009
Notes £000 £000
REVENUE 3, 4 335,953 326,747
Cost of sales (192,492) (186,159)
GROSS PROFIT 143,461 140,588
Distribution costs (45,031) (43,222)
Administrative expenses (54,430) (50,953)
Share of profits from associate and joint venture 15 699 (8)
OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE AMORTISATION OF ACQUIRED INTANGIBLES AND RESTRUCTURING COSTS 44,699 46,405
Restructuring costs 6 (5,936) –
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 4 (5,555) (3,829)
OPERATING PROFIT 4 33,208 42,576
Finance cost 7 (4,931) (5,477)
Investment income 3, 7 1,623 2,727
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 4, 5 29,900 39,826
Income tax expense 8 (10,340) (12,755)
PROFIT AFTER TAX 19,560 27,071
Attributable to minority interests 27 (18) (454)
PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD ATTRIBUTABLE TO EQUITY HOLDERS OF THE PARENT 19,542 26,617
EARNINGS PER SHARE
BASIC 10 7.7p 10.6p
DILUTED 10 7.6p 10.5p
2010 2009
Notes £000 £000
PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD 19,560 27,071
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges 68 (24)
Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations
Subsidiaries (1,519) 25,188
Associates 99 (255)
Actuarial losses on post-employment employee benefits 32 (8,238) (4,513)
Revaluation of previously held interest in associate on acquisition of control – 564
Transfer to profit and loss on cash flow hedges (146) (72)
Tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income 24 2,754 (19)
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS)/INCOME FOR THE PERIOD NET OF TAX (6,991) 20,869
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE PERIOD 12,578 47,940
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 12,996 46,267
Minority interest 27 (418) 1,673
The information on pages 54 to 95 inclusive forms part of these accounts.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 55
2010 2009
Notes £000 £000
ASSETS
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Goodwill 12 85,624 71,546
Other intangible assets 13 31,340 21,528
Property, plant and equipment 14 27,695 27,674
Interests in associates and joint venture 15 1,171 522
Investments 16 1,337 25
Deferred tax assets 24 10,068 5,739
157,235 127,034
CURRENT ASSETS
Inventories 17 50,774 44,044
Trade and other receivables 18 116,155 110,538
Derivative financial instruments 23 171 371
Cash and cash equivalents 19 30,286 38,145
197,386 193,098
TOTAL ASSETS 354,621 320,132
LIABILITIES
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Bank overdrafts and other loans 21 11,518 44,029
Obligations under finance leases 22 77 89
Trade and other payables 20 94,120 89,062
Derivative financial instruments 23 455 103
Tax payable 8,400 7,872
Provisions 25 9,246 3,665
123,816 144,820
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Bank and other loans 21 59,366 9,088
Obligations under finance leases 22 305 386
Other payables 20 563 341
Derivative financial instruments 23 76 –
Post-employment benefits 32 17,593 12,597
Deferred tax liabilities 24 12,553 6,718
Tax payable 831 829
Provisions 25 7,016 3,025
98,303 32,984
TOTAL LIABILITIES 222,119 177,804
NET ASSETS 132,502 142,328
EQUITY
Issued capital 26 65,750 65,275
Share premium 8,980 7,843
Own shares (9,123) (10,948)
Retained earnings 35,810 40,834
Foreign exchange reserve 29,505 30,489
Hedge reserve account (54) 24
EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO EQUITY HOLDERS OF THE PARENT 130,868 133,517
Minority interest 27 1,634 8,811
TOTAL EQUITY 132,502 142,328
Approved by the Board on 24 May 2010
T R COBBOLD DIRECTOR N W WARNER DIRECTOR
The information on pages 54 to 95 inclusive forms part of these accounts.
Section 4: Financial statements and notes
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AT 31 MARCH Section 4: Financial statements and notes
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
56 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
Share Share Own Hedging Exchange Retained Minority Total
capital premium shares reserve reserve earnings Total interest equity
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 April 2008 64,384 5,502 (12,019) 120 6,775 29,766 94,528 – 94,528
Total comprehensive
(loss)/income for the period – – – (96) 23,714 22,649 46,267 1,673 47,940
Dividends paid ––––– (10,690) (10,690) – (10,690)
Shares issued 891 2,341–––– 3,232 – 3,232
Movements in respect
of own shares – – 1,071 – – (3,103) (2,032) – (2,032)
Share-based payments ––––– 2,212 2,212 – 2,212
Minority interest on
acquisition of subsidiary ––––––– 7,138 7,138
At 31 March 2009 65,275 7,843 (10,948) 24 30,489 40,834 133,517 8,811 142,328
At 1 April 2009 65,275 7,843 (10,948) 24 30,489 40,834 133,517 8,811 142,328
Total comprehensive
(loss)/income for the period – – – (78) (984) 14,058 12,996 (418) 12,578
Dividends paid ––––– (12,114) (12,114) (219) (12,333)
Shares issued 475 1,137–––– 1,612 – 1,612
Movements in respect
of own shares – – 1,825 – – (2,783) (958) – (958)
Share-based payments ––––– 1,830 1,830 – 1,830
Acquisition of minority
interest in subsidiary ––––– (6,015) (6,015) (6,540) (12,555)
AT 31 MARCH 2010 65,750 8,980 (9,123) (54) 29,505 35,810 130,868 1,634 132,502
The information on pages 54 to 95 inclusive forms part of these accounts. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 57
2010 2009
Restructuring
Cash flow and other
before exceptional
exceptional payments
payments (Note 6) Total Total
Notes £000 £000 £000 £000
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Operating profit 39,144 (5,936) 33,208 42,576
Amortisation of intangibles – acquired intangibles 13 5,555 – 5,555 3,829
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT (EBITA) 44,699 (5,936) 38,763 46,405
Amortisation of intangibles – computer software 13 1,048 – 1,048 927
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 4,267 – 4,267 3,631
EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST, TAX, DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION (EBITDA) 50,014 (5,936) 44,078 50,963
Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment (26) – (26) (73)
Non-cash charge for employee share schemes 1,830 – 1,830 2,212
Post-employment benefits (1,514) (2,405) (3,919) (170)
Interest in associate and joint venture (551) – (551) 8
OPERATING CASH FLOW BEFORE WORKING CAPITAL MOVEMENTS 49,753 (8,341) 41,412 52,940
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (2,454) – (2,454) 1,306
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 269 – 269 (3,814)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 684 – 684 (6,786)
Increase/(decrease) in other provisions 221 2,803 3,024 (639)
OPERATING CASH FLOW 48,473 (5,538) 42,935 43,007
Income taxes paid (10,915) (13,587)
Finance costs paid (3,235) (3,568)
Investment income 256 1,032
NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 29,041 26,884
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 14 (3,925) (4,896)
Purchase of software 13 (543) (542)
Sale of property, plant and equipment 282 179
Purchase of businesses 28 (35,888) (7,321)
Purchase of investment in associates – (914)
Purchase of investment
16
(1,312) –
NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES (41,386) (13,494)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Share capital issued 1,612 3,232
Purchase of own shares (958) (2,032)
Capital element of finance lease repayments 30 (101) 61
(Decrease)/increase in short-term borrowings 30 (32,909) 29,940
Increase/(decrease) in long-term borrowings 30 48,944 (22,587)
Equity dividends paid (12,305) (10,895)
NET CASH FROM/(USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES 4,283 (2,281)
NET CASH FROM/(USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES 4,283 (2,281)
NET (DECREASE)/INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (8,062) 11,109
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 37,193 22,292
Net foreign exchange differences 96 3,792
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR 29,227 37,193
The information on pages 54 to 95 inclusive forms part of these accounts.
Section 4: Financial statements and notes
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
58 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
1 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING
Chloride Group PLC is a UK-listed electronics company and, together with its subsidiary operations, is hereafter referred to as “the Company”.
The Company is required to prepare its consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
as adopted by the European Union.
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements under IFRS requires the directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the
application of policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and income and expenses. These estimates and associated assumptions
are based on past experience and other factors considered applicable at the time and are used to make judgments about the carrying value of assets
and liabilities that cannot be readily determined from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. These estimates and underlying
assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Changes to estimates and assumptions are reﬂected in the ﬁnancial statements in the period in
which they are made.
GOING CONCERN
The ﬁnancial position of the Company, its cash ﬂows, borrowing facilities and liquidity are set out on page 27 of the ﬁnancial review and in note 21
on page 78. The directors have considered the Company’s internal forecasts and projections that take into account reasonably possible changes
in trading performance. Based on these and the Company’s ﬁnancing position at 31 March 2010, the directors consider that the Company has
adequate facilities to continue to operate for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the annual report and accounts.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND AREAS OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
In applying the Company’s accounting policies as set out in note 2, management has made accounting judgements in the determination of the
carrying value of deferred tax assets, intangible assets, the quantiﬁcation of provisions including retirement beneﬁt obligations and the impairment
of goodwill. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making assumptions and estimates, actual outcomes will differ from those assumptions
and estimates. An analysis of the key sources of estimation uncertainty is provided below.
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS
The carrying value of certain deferred tax assets is dependent on sufﬁcient taxable proﬁts being generated in certain territories in future periods.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS
To determine the net present value of certain customer relationships and trade names, management has estimated the additional future cash ﬂows
arising from these intangibles. In the case of customer relationships, management has applied an estimated attrition factor to its forecast sales for
the relevant unit and in the case of trade names has applied a notional royalty rate.
PROVISIONS
The quantiﬁcation of certain liabilities within provisions (for environmental remediation obligations and for legal costs in relation to certain claims
and deferred acquisition payments) has been estimated. Such liabilities depend on the actions of third parties and on the speciﬁc circumstances
pertaining to each obligation, neither of which is controlled by the Company.
IMPAIRMENT OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS
To determine whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been
allocated. The value-in-use calculation requires management to estimate the future cash ﬂows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit
and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS
In assessing the Company’s obligations relating to retirement beneﬁts, management made key assumptions relating to current and future mortality,
expected returns on plan assets and discount rates.
PRESENTATION UNDER IFRS
The statements are presented in pounds sterling and have been prepared under IFRS as adopted by the European Union using the historical
cost convention.
The Company therefore complies with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulations, adjusted by the revaluation of certain assets and liabilities to fair value.
The nature of these adjustments is set out in the policies below. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 59
1 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING CONTINUED
The Company has adopted the following accounting pronouncements as of 1 April 2009:
● IAS 1 Revised (2007) “Presentation of Financial Statements”
● IFRS 8 “Operating Segments”
● IAS 23 Revised (2007) “Borrowing Costs”
● Amendment to IFRS 2 “Share-based Payments – Vesting Conditions and Cancellations”
● Amendment to IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments; Recognition and Measurement”
● FRIC 16 “Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation”.
With the exception of the above pronouncements, all other accounting policies have been consistently applied from the previous year. The adoption
of these pronouncements has had no signiﬁcant impact on the results or ﬁnancial position of the Company.
At the date of authorisation of these ﬁnancial statements, the following Standards/revisions to Standards and Interpretations which have not been
applied in these ﬁnancial statements were in issue but not yet effective:
− IFRS 3,BusinessCombinations (revised 2008), incorporates the following changes that are likely to be relevant to the Company’s operations:
● contingent consideration will be measured at fair value, with subsequent changes recognised in proﬁt or loss;
● transaction costs, other than share and debt issue costs, will be expensed as incurred;
● pre-existing interests in the acquiree will be measured at fair value with the gain or loss recognised in proﬁt or loss; and
● any non-controlling (minority) interest will be measured at either fair value, or at its proportionate interest in the identiﬁable assets
and liabilities of the acquiree, on a transaction-by-transaction basis.
IFRS 3 will become mandatory for the Company’s 2011 accounts and will be applied prospectively from 1 April 2010. The signiﬁcance
or otherwise of the impact of these changes to the Company will depend on the circumstances of any future acquisition.
− IAS 27,ConsolidatedandSeparateFinancialStatements (revised 2008), requires changes in the level of ownership of a subsidiary,
while maintaining control to be recognised in equity. The amendment is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
No signiﬁcant impact to the Company’s net results or net assets is likely to occur, as the accounting policy currently used by the Company
is consistent with this version.
− IFRS 1,First-timeAdoptionofInternationalFinancialReportingStandards (revised 2008) will have no impact on the Company.
− IFRS 9,FinancialInstruments was issued in November 2009. It is applicable to ﬁnancial assets and requires classiﬁcation and measurement
in either the amortised cost or the fair value category. It is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. The adoption
of IFRS 9 is not expected to have a signiﬁcant impact upon the net results or net assets of the Company.
− IFRS 5,Non-currentAssetsHeldforSaleandDiscontinuedOperations (revised 2008) provides clariﬁcation that assets and liabilities of a subsidiary
should be classiﬁed as held for sale if the Parent is committed to a plan involving loss of control of the subsidiary, regardless of whether the
entity will retain a non-controlling interest after the sale. The amendment is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009
and will not have a signiﬁcant impact upon the net results, net assets or disclosures of the Company.
− IAS 39,FinancialInstruments:RecognitionandMeasurement–EligibleHedgedItems deals with two situations where diversity in practice
exists on the designation of inﬂation as a hedged risk and the treatment of “one-sided” risks on hedged items. The amendment is effective
for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. The amendment is not expected to have a signiﬁcant impact upon the net results,
net assets or disclosures of the Company. Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
60 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
1 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING CONTINUED
The following IFRIC interpretations have been issued but are not yet adopted by the Company:
● Amendments to IFRIC 14 “Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement”.
● IFRIC 17 “Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners”.
● IFRIC 19 “Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments”.
No signiﬁcant impact on the Company’s results is likely to arise from the adoption of these interpretations.
These are the Company’s ﬁfth ﬁnancial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS. The Company’s transition date for adoption of IFRS
was 1 April 2005.
IFRS 1 (First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards) allows companies adopting IFRS for the ﬁrst time to take certain
exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS. Accordingly, the Company took advantage of the following key exemptions on transition to IFRS:
(A) BUSINESS COMBINATIONS:
The Company chose not to restate to IFRS business combinations and the resultant acquisition goodwill for acquisitions made prior to the
transition date.
(B) CUMULATIVE TRANSLATION DIFFERENCES:
IAS 21 (The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates) requires that the cumulative exchange differences previously recognised directly in
equity for foreign operations are transferred to the income statement as part of the proﬁt or loss on any subsequent disposal. As permitted by
IFRS 1 the Company reset these cumulative foreign exchange translation differences to zero at the transition date.
(C) SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS:
The Company applied IFRS 2 (Share-based Payments) only to awards made after 7 November 2002 and which had not vested by 1 January 2005.
(D) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS:
The Company took the exemption not to restate comparatives for IAS 32 (Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation), and IAS 39
(Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement).
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements incorporate the accounts of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries) made up
to 31 March each year. Subsidiaries are those companies in which the Company has control, directly or indirectly, over the operations so as to obtain
beneﬁts from those companies’ activities. The ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements from the
date that control commences until the date that control ceases. All inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on
transactions between Group companies have been eliminated.
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair
values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Company in exchange for
control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination. The acquiree’s identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets
(or disposal groups) that are classiﬁed as held for resale in accordance with IFRS 5 (Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations),
which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination
over the Company’s interest in the net fair value of the identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised. If, after reassessment,
the Company’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business
combination, the excess is recognised immediately in proﬁt or loss. Acquisitions of minority interests are recognised as a reduction in minority
interests, with any excess of the purchase price over these amounts being recognised as an adjustment in retained earnings. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 61
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minority’s proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities
and contingent liabilities recognised.
INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES
An associate or joint venture is an entity over which the Company, either directly or indirectly, is in a position to exercise signiﬁcant inﬂuence
by participating in, but not controlling, the ﬁnancial and operating policies of the entity.
Both entities are accounted for using the equity method. Losses of an associate or joint venture in excess of the Group’s interest in the entity are
not recognised, except to the extent that the Group has incurred obligations on behalf of the entity. Proﬁts and losses recognised by the Company
or its subsidiaries on transactions with an associate or joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the associate or joint
venture concerned.
REVENUE RECOGNITION
1) REVENUE
Revenue represents the amounts, excluding VAT and similar sales-related taxes, receivable by the Company for goods and services supplied to
outside customers in the ordinary course of business. Revenue is recognised when persuasive evidence of an arrangement with a customer exists,
products have been delivered or services have been rendered and collectability is reasonably assured.
Revenue on long-term contracts is recognised under the percentage to completion method of accounting and is calculated based on the ratio of
costs incurred to date compared with the total expected costs for that contract.
Revenue from long-term service provision contracts is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of contract activity at the balance sheet
date. This is normally determined by the proportion of the contract that has elapsed at the balance sheet date. Revenue from services provided on
a short-term or one-off basis is recognised when the service is complete.
2) INTEREST INCOME
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues by reference to the effective yield on the asset.
OPERATING PROFIT
Operating proﬁt is stated after restructuring costs but before investment income and ﬁnance cost.
INCOME TAX
Income tax on the proﬁt or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the
extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the tax payable on the taxable income for the year and is calculated using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date, and any
adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on differences between the carrying values of assets and liabilities in the ﬁnancial statements and the corresponding tax
bases used in the computation of taxable proﬁt. Deferred tax arising from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than
a business combination, that affects neither the taxable nor accounting proﬁt is not recognised.
Deferred tax is provided in respect of the distribution of overseas retained earnings by subsidiaries to the extent that the subsidiary, at the balance
sheet date, has entered into a binding agreement to do so.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that there will be future taxable proﬁts available to offset it and is reduced
to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax beneﬁt will be realised.
Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse
based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES
1) FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS
Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate prevailing at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated
in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction. Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
62 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Gains and losses resulting from the settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
2) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF FOREIGN OPERATIONS
The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Income
statements of foreign entities are translated to sterling at the average exchange rates for the year, approximating the foreign exchange rates
prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Exchange differences arising from the translation of shareholders’ equity to sterling at year-end exchange
rates are taken to the translation reserve. These differences are recognised as income or expense on disposal of the related subsidiary.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Company uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments to manage operational exposures to foreign exchange and interest rate price risks. These
derivatives entered into by the Company consist mainly of currency forwards and interest rate swaps. The Company’s policy prohibits the use
of derivatives for speculation and therefore does not hold or issue ﬁnancial instruments for trading purposes. Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are
recognised as assets and liabilities and measured at their fair values at the date at which such contracts are entered into. Subsequently derivative
ﬁnancial instruments are re-measured at their fair value at each reporting date. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in proﬁt immediately unless
the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument in which case the timing of recognition in the proﬁt and loss depends on the
nature of the hedge relationship.
Hedge accounting is applied to derivative ﬁnancial instruments that are effective in offsetting the changes in fair value or in cash ﬂows of the hedged
items. Under hedge accounting of ﬁnancial assets or liabilities changes in fair value of the ﬁnancial derivative are recognised in the income statement
where they are matched with changes in the fair value of the hedged item which are also recognised in the income statement. Cash ﬂow hedges
are entered into where a derivative ﬁnancial instrument is used to hedge the currency risks of anticipated future export sales, cash ﬂow risks of
anticipated future purchases and the cash ﬂow risk from changes in interest rates. The effective part of the changes in fair value of cash ﬂow hedges
are recognised in equity, while any ineffective part is recognised immediately in the income statement. When the ﬁrm commitment or forecasted
transaction results in recognition of an asset or liability, the cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial measurement
of that asset or liability. Otherwise the cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement at the same time
as the hedged transaction.
When a hedging instrument or hedge relationship is terminated but the hedged transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative unrealised gain
or loss (at that point) remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction
is no longer probable, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement immediately. Derivatives
embedded in other ﬁnancial instruments or non-derivative host contracts are recognised separately as derivative ﬁnancial instruments where their
risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not stated at its fair value with changes in its
fair value recognised in the income statement.
At the inception of a hedged relationship the Company documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged transaction
together with its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Company also documents at inception and
on an ongoing basis as to whether the derivatives used are highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash ﬂows of the hedged item.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
1) POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
Most Group undertakings have pension or retirement beneﬁt arrangements. These vary but are appropriate to the legal requirements and local
practices of the countries concerned.
Contributions to deﬁned contribution plans are charged as an expense as they fall due. For deﬁned beneﬁt plans, pension charges are determined
separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at the balance sheet date. The amounts
charged to the income statement consist of current service costs, interest costs, the expected returns on plan assets and past service costs.
Past service costs are recognised immediately where they have already vested and over the average period until they vest where they have not.
Amounts recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense represent actuarial gains and losses arising from differences between
actuarial assumptions used in previous valuations and the actual outcome and changes in actuarial assumptions.
Pension obligations recognised in the balance sheet represent the present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations adjusted for any past service costs
not yet recognised and the fair value of any plan assets. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 63
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
2) SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Company operates share option programmes to allow employees to acquire shares in the Company at a price ﬁxed at the time of the award.
The Company also operates share award programmes which grant shares to certain employees. These programmes are subject to both market
related and non-market related vesting conditions. For grants made after 7 November 2002 and remaining unvested at 1 January 2005 these awards
are measured at their fair value at the date of grant. This fair value is then charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting
period. Adjustments are made to reﬂect expected and actual forfeiture during the vesting period due to failure to satisfy service conditions or
non-market performance conditions. This fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
GOODWILL
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Company’s share of the net identiﬁable assets of the acquired
subsidiary at the date of acquisition. This goodwill is carried in the balance sheet and is reviewed annually for impairment. Any impairment is
recognised in the income statement and will not be subsequently reversed.
Goodwill is expressed in the currency of the subsidiary to which it relates and is translated to sterling using the year-end exchange rate. Goodwill
arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the UK GAAP amounts. Goodwill written off to reserves under
UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent proﬁt and loss on disposal.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
1) RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientiﬁc or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised
in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the period in which it is incurred except where it relates to the
development of a new or signiﬁcantly improved product or process that is technically and commercially feasible, where the Company has sufﬁcient
resources to complete the development and where the related costs can be reliably measured.
Expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads. Capitalised development expenditure
is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
2) COMPUTER SOFTWARE
Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant or equipment is recognised separately as an asset and is stated at cost less
subsequent amortisation.
3) OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Other intangible assets, acquired by the Company, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
AMORTISATION
Intangible assets are amortised using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives. The rates generally used are:
Computer software Three to seven years
Other Two to ten years
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
With the exception of certain freehold properties, property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised
impairment losses. Assets under construction are not depreciated. Certain of the Company’s freehold properties were revalued in 1993. These
properties are held at this valuation/deemed cost plus any subsequent capital expenditure and less cumulative depreciation.
Depreciation is charged on the straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets. The rates generally in use are as follows:
Freehold land Nil
Freehold buildings 2% to 5%
Leasehold buildings 2% to 5% (or over remaining life of lease if shorter)
Plant, machinery and other equipment 5% to 33%
Depreciation is calculated on the cost together with subsequent additions at cost. Under UK GAAP, certain assets were revalued in 1993 and have
been deemed at cost on transition to IFRS. Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
64 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Assets held under ﬁnance leases are depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned assets.
Gains/losses on disposal of an asset represent the difference between sales proceeds and the net carrying amount.
IMPAIRMENT
Acquired goodwill is tested annually for impairment. The carrying amounts of the Company’s other assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date
to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. An impairment
loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are
recognised in the income statement unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment is recognised as a
revaluation decrease.
1) CALCULATION OF THE RECOVERABLE AMOUNT
The recoverable amount is the greater of the net selling price and the value in use. In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash ﬂows are
discounted to their present value using a post-tax discount rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks
speciﬁc to the asset. For an asset that does not generate independent cash inﬂows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating
unit to which the asset belongs.
2) REVERSAL OF IMPAIRMENT
With the exception of acquisition goodwill, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the
recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount
that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
INVENTORIES
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is generally determined on a ﬁrst-in ﬁrst-out basis and in the case of
products manufactured by the Group, consists of direct material and labour costs together with related factory overheads. Net realisable value
represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
FINANCIAL ASSETS
INVESTMENTS
Investments other than those in associated companies and joint ventures are initially recognised at their fair value at the date of the transaction
and are subsequently measured at each reporting date at their fair value. Where the fair value of investments cannot be reliably determined, these
investments are carried at cost less provision for impairment. The Company’s investments comprise equity stakes in partnership enterprises. These
investments are classiﬁed as available for sale and the resultant gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of assets held for sale are directly
recognised in equity until such assets are de-recognised, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the
net proﬁt or loss for the period. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement if there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
TRADE RECEIVABLES
Trade receivables are stated at their amortised cost by reference to invoiced amount less an allowance for doubtful accounts. An allowance
for doubtful accounts is recognised when it becomes likely that the originally invoiced amount is not fully realisable.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits available on demand and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity
on acquisition of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no right
of offset with cash balances.
TRADE PAYABLES
Trade payables are stated at amortised cost.
BORROWING
Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recognised initially at cost, less attributable transaction costs. Borrowing costs including premiums
payable on settlement are recognised in the income statement under the effective interest rate method.
EQUITY
Equity is recorded in the balance sheet at the proceeds received less transaction costs. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 65
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
LEASING
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Company assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classiﬁed as ﬁnance
leases. Assets held under ﬁnance leases are included within property, plant and equipment, and are measured at the lower of fair value and the
estimated present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The
corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a ﬁnance lease obligation. Interest is charged to the income statement as
a ﬁnance charge over the lease period. Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over
the life of the lease.
PROVISIONS
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and a reliable estimate of the
amount of this obligation can be made.
1) WARRANTY
Provision for warranty costs are recognised at the date of sale to reﬂect the likely costs of meeting such obligations.
2) RESTRUCTURING
Provision for restructuring is recognised when the Company has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either
commenced or has been announced publicly.
3) ONEROUS CONTRACTS
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected beneﬁts to be derived by the Company from a contract are lower than the
unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
4) DEFERRED CONSIDERATION
A provision for deferred payments arising from business acquisitions is made at the likely costs of settlement.
ASSETS HELD FOR SALE AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
Assets are classiﬁed as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered by sale rather than by continuing use in the business. Such assets
must be available for immediate sale in their present condition, management must be committed to and have initiated a plan to sell the asset which,
when initiated, was expected to result in a completed sale within 12 months.
An extension of the period required to complete the sale does not preclude the asset from being classiﬁed as held for sale, provided the delay was
for reasons beyond the Company’s control and management remains committed to its plan to sell the asset. Assets that are classiﬁed as held for
sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
A discontinued operation is a component of an entity that has either been disposed of, or satisﬁes the criteria to be classiﬁed as held for sale, and
represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major
line of business or geographical area of operations or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to disposal.
3 REVENUE
2010 2009
Total Total
£000 £000
Sale of secure power solution products 211,195 216,699
Revenue from services relating to the products above 124,758 110,048
335,953 326,747
Investment income 1,623 2,727
337,576 329,474 Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
66 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
4 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION
The Company has adopted IFRS 8, Operating Segments, this year. Under this statement the Company is required to identify operating segments
by reference to reports regularly reviewed by the Chief Executive.
Consistent with prior years the Company derives its revenue and proﬁts from a single class of business – secure power solutions. The Company
carries out its trade through a number of operating units which substantially reﬂect the country/region in which they operate. Information is reported
to the Group’s Chief Executive at this level, which is the basis on which resources are allocated and assessments of performance made. The units
have therefore been determined to be separate operating segments.
All units are similar in the nature of products and services that they supply, the source of those products, and have similar classes of end customer
and distribution. However, due to the regions of the world in which they operate, they exhibit different economic characteristics. Therefore, for the
purposes of IFRS 8, we have aggregated the results of our operating units into the following reportable geographic regional segments:
– Europe
– Americas
– Asia Paciﬁc
The reportable segments identiﬁed are not materially different from the geographic basis of disclosure previously provided under IAS 14. However,
to the extent that IFRS 8 has had an effect on the nature of information presented, amounts reported for prior periods have been presented on a
similar basis.
TURNOVER AND PROFIT BY SOURCE
2010
Inter-
segment
£000 £000 £000
REVENUE
Europe 272,368 (11,714) 260,654
Americas 33,799 (1,327) 32,472
Asia Pacific 43,297 (470) 42,827
349,464 (13,511) 335,953
Inter-segment revenue (13,511) 13,511 –
Total revenue 335,953 – 335,953
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market prices.
2009
Inter-
segment
£000 £000 £000
REVENUE
Europe 269,297 (10,855) 258,442
Americas 28,705 (1,170) 27,535
Asia Pacific 41,025 (255) 40,770
339,027 (12,280) 326,747
Inter-segment revenue (12,280) 12,280 –
Total revenue 326,747 – 326,747 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 67
4 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED
SEGMENT RESULTS
2010 2009
Total Total
£000 £000
Europe 42,303 46,748
Americas 1,729 888
Asia Pacific 4,300 4,185
Total segment result 48,332 51,821
Central administration (3,633) (5,416)
Total operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangibles and restructuring costs 44,699 46,405
Acquired intangible amortisation (5,555) (3,829)
Restructuring costs (5,936) –
Operating profit 33,208 42,576
Finance costs (4,931) (5,477)
Investment income 1,623 2,727
Profit before tax 29,900 39,826
Net proﬁt/(losses) from associates and joint ventures of £699,000 (2009: £8,000 loss) are included in the operating proﬁt analysis above.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in note 2. Segment results represents
the proﬁt earned by each segment before central administration costs, amortisation of acquired intangibles, restructuring costs, ﬁnance costs,
investment income and tax.
DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION
2010 2009
Amortisation of Amortisation of
Depreciation intangibles Depreciation intangibles
£000 £000 £000 £000
Europe 2,622 3,895 2,303 3,108
Americas 460 2,182 338 35
Asia Pacific 770 526 646 1,613
Central administration 415 – 344 –
Total 4,267 6,603 3,631 4,756
The results for reportable segments is shown after charging amortisation of other intangibles of £1,048,000 (2009: £927,000). Amortisation of
acquired intangibles not included in the results of operating segments of £5,555,000 (2009: £3,829,000) comprises: £3,023,000 (2009:£2,319,000)
in Europe, £512,000 (2009: £17,000) in Americas and £2,020,000 (2009: £1,493,000) in Asia Paciﬁc.
ADDITIONS TO NON-CURRENT ASSETS
2010
Other Property, Investments,
intangible plant and associates and
Goodwill assets equipment joint ventures
£000 £000 £000 £000
Europe 12,102 12,868 3,528 –
Americas 3,308 2,647 347 –
Asia Pacific 136 170 688 1,312
Central administration – – 361 –
Total 15,546 15,685 4,924 1,312 Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
68 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
4 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED
2009
Other Property, Investments,
intangible plant and associates and
Goodwill assets equipment joint ventures
£000 £000 £000 £000
Europe 1,718 884 2,941 25
Americas 472 429 602 –
Asia Pacific 2,183 12,556 3,976 729
Central administration – – 231 –
Total 4,373 13,869 7,750 754
TOTAL ASSETS
2010 2009
£000 £000
Europe 227,741 200,545
Americas 42,935 34,680
Asia Pacific 45,860 43,106
Total reporting segments 316,536 278,331
Central administration 38,085 41,801
Total 354,621 320,132
Interests in associates and joint ventures of £1.2 million (2009: £0.5 million) are included in the total asset analysis above.
NON-CURRENT ASSETS BY REGION
2010 2009
£000 % £000 %
UK 26,822 18 23,267 19
Europe (excluding UK) 68,608 47 51,966 42
Americas 27,361 19 22,749 19
Asia Pacific 21,152 14 21,348 18
Central administration 3,224 2 1,965 2
Total 147,167 100 121,295 100
Non-current assets by region include all non-current assets except deferred tax assets.
THIRD-PARTY TURNOVER BY MARKET DESTINATION
2010 2009
£000 % £000 %
UK 66,423 20 67,847 21
Europe (excluding UK) 149,306 44 150,997 46
Americas 36,131 11 29,689 9
Asia Pacific 53,595 16 52,989 16
Africa and Middle East 30,498 9 25,225 8
Total 335,953 100 326,747 100
There were no transactions with individual customers accounting for 10% or more of the total third party revenue of the entity. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 69
5 PROFIT BEFORE TAX
2010 2009
£000 £000
Profit before tax is stated after charging/(crediting) the following:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 4,267 3,631
Amortisation of intangibles – computer software 1,048 927
– acquired intangibles 5,555 3,829
Costs of inventory recognised as an expense 135,289 132,107
Research and development 6,803 6,409
Net foreign exchange losses/(gains) 656 (749)
Impairment of trade receivables 406 566
Loss/(gain) on cash flow hedges recycled to income 146 (72)
Auditors’ remuneration
Statutory audit of the Company – remuneration of auditor 135 123
Services other than audit – remuneration of auditor and associates
Auditing of subsidiaries of Company pursuant to legislation 298 280
Other services – tax advisory and compliance 168 22
Total auditor remuneration 601 425
Fees for other services are primarily in respect of tax advisory and compliance services. All such fees must be reported to the Audit Committee
and prior approval is required from the Chairman of the Audit Committee for any projects above speciﬁed limits.
6 EXCEPTIONAL RESTRUCTURING COSTS AND PENSION PAYMENTS
The Company incurred exceptional restructuring costs of £5.9 million during the year (2009: £nil). These mainly arose from redundancies.
Of this amount, £3.1 million was paid during the year.
The Company has also contributed a further £2.4 million to its UK pension scheme (2009: £nil). This payment has enabled the scheme to purchase
an insurance contract which exactly matches the scheme’s obligation to its pensioners in payment.
7 FINANCE INCOME AND EXPENSE
2010 2009
£000 £000
INVESTMENT INCOME
Interest on short-term deposits 219 940
Other interest receivable 29 8
Expected return on post-employment plan assets 1,375 1,779
Total investment Income 1,623 2,727
FINANCE COST
Interest on loans 1,501 3,116
Interest on short-term borrowing 361 33
Interest on finance lease obligations 26 15
Interest on post-employment plan liabilities 2,001 2,028
Other finance cost 1,042 285
Finance cost 4,931 5,477 Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
70 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
8 TAXATION
2010 2009
£000 £000
CURRENT TAX
UK corporation tax at statutory rate 2,467 1,454
Foreign tax 9,897 9,917
Adjustment in respect of prior years (228) 345
Current taxation 12,136 11,716
DEFERRED TAXATION
Origination and reversal of temporary differences
– current year (1,533) 1,320
– prior year (263) (281)
Total deferred tax (1,796) 1,039
TOTAL TAX EXPENSE 10,340 12,755
The table below reconciles the total tax expense with the UK corporation tax rate:
2010 2009
£000 £000
Profit before tax 29,900 39,826
Tax on profit arrived at by applying the standard rate of UK tax 28% (2009: 28%) 8,372 11,152
Tax rate differences arising on overseas earnings – trading 1,113 1,111
Expenses not allowable for tax 495 273
Overseas losses not tax relieved 729 50
Benefit of previously unrecognised overseas tax losses (88) (122)
Deferred tax expense relating to changes in tax rates – 324
Tax (over)/under provided in prior years (491) 64
Other differences 210 (97)
TOTAL TAX EXPENSE 10,340 12,755
The foreign tax charge includes tax withheld from remittances to the UK of £81,000 (2009: £105,000).
9 DIVIDENDS
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:
2010 2009
£000 £000
Final dividend for year ended 31 March 2009 of 2.85p (2008: 2.40p) per share 7,259 6,010
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010 of 1.9p (2009: 1.85p) per share 4,855 4,680
12,114 10,690
Proposed dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010 of 3.3p (2009: 2.85p) per share 8,491 7,247
The proposed dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these
ﬁnancial statements.
The trustees of the Chloride Group Employee Beneﬁt Trust have waived their rights to receive dividends. Accordingly the amounts shown above
for 2010 are net of dividends of £302,000 (2009: £241,000). CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 71
10 EARNINGS PER SHARE
A) BASIC AND ADJUSTED EPS
The reconciliation between basic and adjusted EPS, and between the earnings ﬁgures used in calculating them, is as follows:
Profit Attributable Profit
before to minority after
taxation Taxation interests taxation EPS
£000 £000 £000 £000 p
2010
BASIC 29,900 (10,340) (18) 19,542 7.7
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 5,555 (1,759) (288) 3,508
Restructuring 5,936 (856) – 5,080
ADJUSTED 41,391 (12,955) (306) 28,130 11.0
2009
BASIC 39,826 (12,755) (454) 26,617 10.6
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 3,829 (1,036) (452) 2,341
ADJUSTED 43,655 (13,791) (906) 28,958 11.5
B) DILUTED EPS
DilutedEPShasbeencalculatedbasedonthebasicandadjustedearningsamountsabove.Thedilutedanddilutedadjustedearningsaresetoutbelow:
2010 2009
p p
DILUTED 7.6 10.5
DILUTED ADJUSTED 11.0 11.4
A reconciliation between the shares used in calculating basic and diluted EPS is as follows:
2010 2009
million million
Average shares used in basic EPS calculation 255.3 252.2
Dilutive share options outstanding 1.0 1.0
Shares used in diluted EPS calculation 256.3 253.2
The weighted average number of shares excludes shares held by the Chloride Group Employee Beneﬁt Trust. The directors consider that the
adjusted earnings per share ﬁgures more accurately reﬂect the underlying performance of the business. Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
72 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
11 EMPLOYEE INFORMATION
At 31 March 2010 the total number of the Company’s employees, including executive directors, was 2,540 (2009: 2,333). The average number of
persons employed during the year is analysed below:
2010 2009
Europe – including 422 in the UK (2009: 374) 1,314 1,256
Americas 223 200
Rest of the world 870 687
2,407 2,143
Employment costs (including those relating to executive directors) were as follows:
2010 2009
£000 £000
Wages and salaries 65,419 59,696
Social security costs 11,780 11,083
Other pensions costs (see note 32) 3,132 2,831
80,331 73,610
12 GOODWILL
2010 2009
£000 £000
COST AND CARRYING AMOUNT:
At 1 April 71,546 57,789
Exchange differences (1,468) 9,384
Adjustment to goodwill acquired in prior period 527 167
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries (see note 28) 15,019 4,206
At 31 March 85,624 71,546
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually. Value-in-use calculations are used to calculate recoverable amount. Value in use
is calculated as the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax free cash ﬂows of the cash-generating unit in which the goodwill is
contained, applying a discount rate of the Company post-tax weighted average cost of capital of 9.7%. This approximates to applying a pre-tax
discount of 14.1% to pre-tax cash ﬂows. These cash ﬂow projections are made over a 20-year period and are consistent with approved budgets,
and market growth rates projected by Frost & Sullivan over the ﬁrst ﬁve years and a growth rate in line with an inﬂation assumption of 2% per
annum thereafter.
As current economic conditions create uncertainty and make forecasting difﬁcult, in testing goodwill for impairment, the directors have considered
the following downside sensitivities:
● a 1% increase in the pre-tax discount rate;
● a reduction in the long-term growth rate assumption of 1%; and
● a 1% point reduction in the forecast operating margin of the business.
With the exception of our Spanish business, Chloride España S.A.U., the individual cash-generating units showed signiﬁcant headroom.
The assessment for Chloride España S.A.U. showed base case headroom of £1.4 million. Projections reﬂecting the sensitivities of a 1% increase
in the discount rate, a reduction of 1% in the long-term growth rate and a reduction of 1 point in the operating margin of Chloride España S.A.U.,
showed respective impairments of £0.1 million, £0.7 million and £0.6 million. No provisions for impairment have been recognised this year on
the grounds of the positive base case headroom. The Company will continue to monitor the performance of Chloride España S.A.U. over the
next 12 months. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 73
13 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Software Acquired
costs intangibles Total
£000 £000 £000
COST:
At 1 April 2008 7,433 9,697 17,130
Additions 542 – 542
Acquisition of subsidiary 40 13,287 13,327
Exchange differences 1,249 3,033 4,282
Disposals (12) – (12)
At 1 April 2009 9,252 26,017 35,269
Additions 543 – 543
Acquisition of subsidiary 57 15,085 15,142
Exchange differences (25) 842 817
Disposals (340) (2) (342)
AT 31 MARCH 2010 9,487 41,942 51,429
AMORTISATION:
At 1 April 2008 4,313 3,251 7,564
Charge for the year 927 3,829 4,756
Exchange differences 850 583 1,433
Eliminated on disposal (12) – (12)
At 1 April 2009 6,078 7,663 13,741
Charge for the year 1,048 5,555 6,603
Exchange differences (118) 205 87
Eliminated on disposal (339) (3) (342)
AT 31 MARCH 2010 6,669 13,420 20,089
CARRYING AMOUNT:
At 31 March 2009 3,174 18,354 21,528
AT 31 MARCH 2010 2,818 28,522 31,340
Acquired intangibles are stated at fair value and represent intellectual property, customer relationships and the value of trade names acquired
with businesses, see note 28. Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
74 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
14 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Land and Fixtures and
buildings equipment Total
£000 £000 £000
COST OR VALUATION:
At 1 April 2008 17,297 23,613 40,910
Additions 776 4,080 4,856
Acquisition of subsidiary 2,023 871 2,894
Exchange differences 3,653 4,086 7,739
Transfers 405 (405) –
Disposals (132) (1,269) (1,401)
At 1 April 2009 24,022 30,976 54,998
Additions 392 3,533 3,925
Acquisition of subsidiary 27 972 999
Exchange differences (415) (590) (1,005)
Disposals (52) (2,150) (2,202)
AT 31 MARCH 2010 23,974 32,741 56,715
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION:
At 1 April 2008 5,090 16,011 21,101
Charge for the year 624 3,007 3,631
Exchange differences 961 2,873 3,834
Transfers 142 (142) –
Disposals (106) (1,136) (1,242)
At 1 April 2009 6,711 20,613 27,324
Charge for the year 713 3,554 4,267
Exchange differences (138) (486) (624)
Disposals (46) (1,901) (1,947)
AT 31 MARCH 2010 7,240 21,780 29,020
CARRYING AMOUNT:
At 31 March 2009 17,311 10,363 27,674
AT 31 MARCH 2010 16,734 10,961 27,695
Notes
a) In the above table, the net book value for the Group includes £363,000 (2009: £348,000) in respect of tangible fixed assets held under finance leases, and the depreciation charge for the year
includes £87,000 (2009: £29,000) in respect of these assets.
b) The tangible fixed assets of the Group comprise plant and machinery, including motor vehicles and office equipment.
c) At 31 March 2010 the Group had entered into contracts to acquire £337,000 of property plant and equipment (2009: £569,000). CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 75
15 INTERESTS IN ASSOCIATE AND JOINT VENTURES
2010 2009
£000 £000
CARRYING VALUE:
At 1 April 522 3,576
Additions – 729
Share of profit/(losses) in the period 699 (8)
Dividend received (149) –
Transfer out – (3,520)
Exchange differences 99 (255)
Value at 31 March 1,171 522
SUMMARISED INFORMATION IN RESPECT OF ASSOCIATE AND JOINT VENTURES:
Total assets 8,038 4,652
Total liabilities 5,159 3,271
Revenue 20,281 11,631
Profit 1,775 575
Group share 699 (8)
The above investments relate to equity stakes in Chloride Phoenixtec Electronics Limited (50%) and Chloride Russia (26%).
16 INVESTMENTS
£000
At 1 April 2009 25
Additions 1,312
AT 31 MARCH 2010 1,337
The additions relate to 10% of the equity share capital of Newtech Technology Holdings Limited acquired in May 2009. The investments above
represent unquoted equity interests, and are carried at cost as the fair value is not reliably determinable. The directors are of the opinion that the
carrying value is a fair approximation of the fair value.
17 INVENTORIES
2010 2009
£000 £000
Raw materials and components 14,047 15,027
Work in progress 10,607 9,252
Finished goods 26,120 19,765
50,774 44,044
Inventory is stated after provisions for obsolescence of £7.2 million (2009: £6.1 million). Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
76 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
18 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2010 2009
£000 £000
AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
Trade debtors 101,092 95,588
Amounts provided for doubtful debts (5,140) (5,100)
95,952 90,488
Other receivables 12,305 10,926
Prepayments and accrued income 5,932 7,387
114,189 108,801
AMOUNTS DUE AFTER ONE YEAR
Trade debtors 1,318 1,091
Amounts provided for doubtful debts (73) –
1,245 1,091
Other receivables 582 590
Prepayments and accrued income 139 56
1,966 1,737
116,155 110,538
The directors consider that the carrying value of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
The average consolidated term for trade debtors was 71 days (2009: 76 days). Included in the Company’s trade debtors are debtors with a carrying
value of £22,807,000 (2009: £15,350,000) which were past their due date at the reporting date, for which the Company has not recognised an
allowance for impairment. As there has been no overall change in the underlying credit risk associated with these debts, the Company believes
that these are recoverable. The average term by which these debtors exceed their due date is 21 days (2009: 15 days).
Trade receivables are not normally interest bearing, although the Company may exercise the right to charge interest on overdue accounts.
Allowance for impairment is made where there is an identiﬁed loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the
recoverability of the cash ﬂows. Movement in the allowance for doubtful accounts is as follows:
2010 2009
£000 £000
Balance at beginning of year 5,100 3,790
Exchange differences (70) 644
Income statement charge 406 566
Acquisitions 221 583
Utilisation (444) (483)
Balance at end of year 5,213 5,100 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 77
18 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED
CREDIT RISK
The Company’s principal ﬁnancial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables and investments.
The Company’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances
for doubtful receivables. An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identiﬁed loss event which, based on previous experience,
is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash ﬂows.
Bank balances and cash comprise cash held by the Company and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value. The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative ﬁnancial instruments is limited
because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
The Company has no signiﬁcant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
The Company trades mainly with other companies with strong credit ratings and there is a good history of collection and cash generation
with a limited history of impairment.
19 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2010 2009
£000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 23,864 36,192
Short-term deposits 6,422 1,953
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 30,286 38,145
20 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2010 2009
£000 £000
AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
Trade payables 49,032 45,679
Value added, payroll and other taxes 12,794 10,599
Other creditors 15,502 14,493
Accruals 16,792 18,291
94,120 89,062
AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR
Other payables 563 341 Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
78 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
21 BORROWINGS
2010 2009
£000 £000
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Bank overdrafts 1,059 952
Bank loans 10,459 43,077
11,518 44,029
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Bank loans 59,366 9,088
Of the non-current loans shown above £18.5 million is repayable within one to two years (2009: £0.2 million) and £40.9 million is repayable within
two to three years (2009: £8.9 million).
Included in the above are loans of £15.0 million and £0.2 million, which carry ﬁxed interest rates of 4.935% and 2.4% per annum respectively.
These loans are repayable in July 2012 and July 2010. The Company has also entered into an interest rate swap for €10 million at 1.95%.
This swap will run from 6 May 2010 for three years. All other borrowings are at ﬂoating rates. A 1% change in the effective borrowing rate
would change interest payable by £0.6 million (2009: £0.5 million).
Analysis of borrowings by currency:
Sterling Euro Other Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
YEAR ENDED MARCH 2010
Bank overdrafts – – 1,059 1,059
Bank loans 43,500 26,044 281 69,825
43,500 26,044 1,340 70,884
Year ended March 2009
Bank overdrafts – – 952 952
Bank loans 44,000 7,918 247 52,165
44,000 7,918 1,199 53,117
The weighted average interest rate on the borrowings above was 2.4% (2009: 5.09%).
Borrowings and cash balances have been offset where the legal right of offset exists. The Company’s Articles of Association limit the external
borrowings of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings to an amount equal to twice the share capital and consolidated reserves.
At 31 March 2010 the Company had £150.0 million of committed facilities (2009: £110.0 million), of which £79.0 million (2009: £58.0 million)
was unutilised. Of this amount, £10.0 million expires within one year (2009: £50.0 million), £50.0 million expires within one to two years
(2009: £10.0 million) and £90.0 million (2009: £50.0 million) expires after two years.
In addition to this the Company has £16.0 million of overdraft facilities (2009: £7.0 million) of which £1.1 million were drawn (2009: £1.0 million).
The directors have considered the Company’s internal forecasts and projections that take into account reasonably possible changes in trading
performance on covenant compliance. Chloride has signiﬁcant headroom in terms of both available facilities and in terms of its operation within
existing covenants.
Based on the above, and after making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate
facilities to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 79
22 OBLIGATIONS UNDER FINANCE LEASES
Present value of
Minimum lease minimum lease
payments payments
2010 2009 2010 2009
£000 £000 £000 £000
Amounts payable under finance leases:
Within one year 94 121 77 89
Over one and under five years 296 351 239 291
Over five years 95 132 66 95
485 604 382 475
Less: future finance charges (103) (129) – –
Present value of lease charges 382 475 382 475
Amounts shown in current liabilities 77 89
Amounts shown in long-term liabilities 305 386
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
SUMMARY
The Company uses derivative contracts to hedge future transactions and cash ﬂows. At the balance sheet date the fair value of these contracts was:
2010 2009
Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Currency derivatives 171 (455) (284) 371 (103) 268
Interest rate swaps – (76) (76) –––
171 (531) (360) 371 (103) 268
Of these amounts £54,000 has been debited to the hedging reserve (2009: £24,000). Net gains of £146,000 (2009: £72,498) were transferred from
the hedging reserve to the income statement during the period.
Other than the interest swap which is due for net settlement between 0 and 4 years (2009: £nil), all derivatives are due for settlement within one year. Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
80 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Fair value through profit or loss
Designated Total
Loans and Available Amortised hedging carrying
receivables for sale cost relationships Trading value Fair value
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
AT 31 MARCH 2010
INVESTMENTS – 1,337––– 1,337 1,337
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Non-derivative assets 110,086–––– 110,086 110,086
Derivative assets – – – 46 125 171 171
110,086 1,337 – 46 125 111,594 111,594
Cash and cash equivalents 30,286––––– 30,286
140,372 1,337 – 46 125 141,880 141,880
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Non-derivative liabilities (77,891) ––––– (77,891
Derivative liabilities – – – (100) (431) (531) (531)
(77,891) – – (100) (431) (78,422) (78,422)
Bank overdrafts – – (1,059) – – (1,059) (1,059)
BANK AND OTHER LOANS
Current – – (10,459) – – (10,459) (10,459)
Non-current – – (59,366) – – (59,366) (59,366)
Obligation under finance leases – – (382) – – (382) (382)
(77,891) – (71,266) (100) (431) (149,688) (149,688)
62,481 1,337 (71,266) (54) (306) (7,808) (7,808)
Net financial liabilities in functional currency of operations (3,965)
Net financial liabilities in other currencies (3,843) CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 81
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Fair value through profit or loss
Designated Total
Loans and Available Amortised hedging carrying
receivables for sale cost relationships Trading value Fair value
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
AT 31 MARCH 2009
INVESTMENTS – 25––– 25 25
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Non-derivative assets 103,095–––– 103,095 103,095
Derivative assets – – – 111 260 371 371
103,095 25 – 111 260 103,491 103,491
Cash and cash equivalents 38,145–––– 38,145 38,145
141,240 25 – 111 260 141,636 141,636
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Non-derivative liabilities (71,112) –––– (71,112) (71,112)
Derivative liabilities – – – (87) (16) (103) (103)
(71,112) – – (87) (16) (71,215) (71,215)
Bank overdrafts – – (952) – – (952) (952)
BANK AND OTHER LOANS
Current – – (43,077) – – (43,077) (43,077)
Non-current – – (9,088) – – (9,088) (9,088)
Obligation under finance leases – – (475) – – (475) (475)
(71,112) – (53,592) (87) (16) (124,807) (124,807)
70,128 25 (53,592) 24 244 16,829 16,829
Net financial assets in functional currency of operations 17,627
Net financial liabilities in other currencies (798)
FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY
The different levels of valuation methods of ﬁnancial instruments carried at fair value have been deﬁned as follows:
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly
(i.e. derived from prices).
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
All ﬁnancial assets and liabilities recognised by the Group at fair value can be classiﬁed as value using Level 2.
These comprise derivative assets at fair value of £171,000 (2009: £371,000) and derivative liabilities at fair value of £531,000 (2009: £103,000). Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
82 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
CURRENCY RISK
The Group has used a sensitivity analysis technique that measures the estimated change to the fair value of the Company’s ﬁnancial instruments,
to the income statement and to equity of a 10% strengthening or weakening in sterling against all other currencies, from the rates applicable at
31 March 2010, with all other variables remaining constant. A 10% variation in the valuation of sterling at the balance sheet date would have an
approximate impact of £380,000 (2009: £8,000). All of this would be taken to the income statement.
The amounts generated from the sensitivity analysis are estimates of the impact of market risk assuming that speciﬁed changes occur. Actual results
in the future may differ materially from these results due to developments in the global ﬁnancial markets which may cause ﬂuctuations in exchange
rates to vary from the hypothetical amounts disclosed in the following table, which therefore should not be considered a projection of likely future
events and losses.
LIQUIDITY RISK
Detailed commentary on the Company’s liquidity position is set out on page 27 of the ﬁnancial review. Undiscounted contractual liabilities related
to the Company’s non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities are:
Between Between
Within one and two and Over five
one year two years five years years Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
2010
Bank overdrafts 1,059––– 1,059
Bank and other loans: 10,459 18,500 40,866 – 69,825
Related interest 1,804 1,517 290 – 3,611
Finance lease obligations 77 88 125 92 382
Trade and other payables 77,446 561 – – 78,007
Derivative liabilities 455 – 76 – 531
TOTAL 91,300 20,666 41,357 92 153,415
2009
Bank overdrafts 952––– 952
Bank and other loans: 43,077 184 8,904 – 52,165
Related interest 704 164 39 – 907
Finance lease obligations 121 134 217 132 604
Trade and other payables 70,771 341 – – 71,112
Total 115,625 823 9,160 132 125,740
The Company’s core borrowings comprise three-year committed facilities with a number of banks. Typically the Company draws under these
facilities for periods between one week and three months and the interest rates applicable, LIBOR (or equivalent), are determined at the outset of
each drawing. The above table is drawn up on the assumption that the Company will continue to draw on these loans until the expiry of the facility
and that interest rates have been set at the rate applicable at 31 March. Note 21 shows further details on the availability of credit facilities and the
respective interest rates.
The Company holds ﬁnancial assets which mature within one year of £140,053,000 (2009: £139,955,000) and £1,827,000 (2009: £1,681,000),
due between one and two years. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 83
24 DEFERRED TAX
Deferred tax comprises:
At 1 April Recognised Recognised Other At 31 March Recognised Recognised Other At 31 March
2008 in income in equity movements 2009 in income in equity movements 2010
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Post-employment benefits (612) (456) (868) (78) (2,014) 861 (2,304) (68) (3,525)
Other provisions (5,106) (403) 887 1,015 (3,607) (1,522) (450) 575 (5,004)
Accelerated tax depreciation (535) (82) – 28 (589) 2 – 43 (544)
Intangibles 1,892 (295) – 5,592 7,189 (1,137) – 5,506 11,558
Tax losses (1,991) 2,275 – (284) –––– –
(6,352) 1,039 19 6,273 979 (1,796) (2,754) 6,056 2,485
2010 2009
£000 £000
Deferred tax liabilities 12,553 6,718
Deferred tax assets (10,068) (5,739)
2,485 979
Other movements during the year total £6,056,000 (2009: £6,273,000) including deferred tax liabilities of £5,284,000 in respect of intangibles of
subsidiaries acquired (2009: £5,087,000), deferred tax assets of £350,000 in respect of temporary differences other than intangibles of subsidiaries
acquired (2009: £nil), less transfers to current tax of other provisions of £773,000 (2009: £1,570,000) plus exchange translation and other
movements of £313,000 (2009: less £384,000).
The Company has tax losses amounting to approximately £17.4 million (2009: £17.8 million) of which £nil (2009: £nil) has been taken into account
in calculating deferred tax and the balance relates to losses in countries where it is not possible with reasonable certainty to foresee the timing of
their utilisation.
25 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES
Restructuring Warranty Other Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 April 2009 199 2,395 4,096 6,690
Exchange rate adjustments – (69) 29 (40)
Profit and loss account 2,975 475 869 4,319
Acquisition of subsidiaries – 519 6,551 7,070
Utilised in the year (146) (481) (1,150) (1,777)
AT 31 MARCH 2010 3,028 2,839 10,395 16,262
Current 3,028 288 5,930 9,246
Non-current – 2,551 4,465 7,016
Restructuring provisions mainly relate to redundancy payments. Warranties given by the Company depend on the nature of the application sold,
and range from between one and ﬁve years. Included in other provisions are deferred acquisition payments of £5.7 million together with provisions
for contractual and other obligations such as vacant property and routine legal matters. Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
84 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
26 SHARE CAPITAL
2010 2009
£000 £000
Authorised:
Equity
Ordinary shares of 25p each: 329,752,000 (2009: 329,752,000) 82,438 82,438
82,438 82,438
Issued:
Equity
Ordinary shares of 25p each 262,998,510 (2009: 261,098,032) 65,750 65,275
65,750 65,275
The increase in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company is due to the exercise during the year of executive and savings-related share
options and certain PSP awards over a total of 1,935,478 shares (2009: 3,563,126). As at 31 March 2010, there were 1,691,468 ordinary shares
(2009: 3,241,349) under option under executive share option schemes, 1,130,242 (2009: 1,301,686) under option under the Company’s savings-
related share option schemes and 4,020,711 (2009: 4,028,683) under option under the Company’s Performance Share Plan.
The following table shows aggregate option entitlements under the executive share option schemes outstanding at 31 March 2010. It also includes
information as to whether performance measures are applicable and, if so, whether they were met at 31 March 2010.
Status of
Number of shares performance measure(s)
Date of grant Option price 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 as at 31 March 2010
1994 SCHEME
29.10.99 80.25p – 1,500 met
31.05.00 135.5p – 3,874 met
31.10.00 206.0p 16,558 16,558 met
1996 SCHEME
26.07.99 78.5p – 15,000 met
29.10.99 80.25p – 23,000 met
30.05.00 135.5p 80,000 581,126 met
30.10.00 206.0p 213,442 238,442 met
2001 SCHEME
06.06.02 44.5p 70,000 85,000 met
05.06.03 35p 70,000 80,000 met
27.06.03 43p 77,000 97,000 met
27.07.04 45.75p 101,982 121,982 met
23.08.04 44p 47,385 67,385 met
25.11.04 53p – 99,046 met
01.06.05 65.875p 186,442 858,885 met
28.06.05 64p 189,663 189,663 met
15.06.06 90p 15,000 35,000 met
15.06.06 98p 35,000 35,000 met
07.06.07 166p 380,996 484,888 under measurement
04.07.07 169.25p 103,000 103,000 under measurement
30.10.07 204.5p 105,000 105,000 under measurement
1,691,468 3,241,349 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 85
26 SHARE CAPITAL CONTINUED
The following table shows entitlements outstanding under the savings-related share option schemes as at 31 March 2010.
Number of shares
Three, five or seven year options Date of grant Option price 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Normal exercise period
1997 Scheme
Seven year 03.07.02 37.5p – 95,865 01.10.09 to 31.03.10
Seven year 03.07.03 30.5p 23,270 23,270 01.10.10 to 31.03.11
Five year 08.07.04 38.0p 19,194 130,797 01.10.09 to 31.03.10
Three year 16.12.05 74.54p – 24,834 01.02.09 to 31.07.09
Five year 16.12.05 74.54p 188,893 192,645 01.02.11 to 31.07.11
Three year 05.12.06 112.0p 10,124 133,469 01.02.10 to 31.07.10
Five year 05.12.06 112.0p 89,474 92,398 01.02.12 to 31.07.12
Three year 05.12.07 166.0p 102,587 124,791 01.02.11 to 31.07.11
Five year 05.12.07 166.0p 51,206 69,422 01.02.13 to 31.07.13
2007 Scheme
Three year 02.12.08 128.0p 196,050 233,100 01.02.12 to 31.07.12
Five year 02.12.08 128.0p 171,935 181,095 01.02.14 to 31.07.14
Three year 01.12.09 132.0p 160,183 – 01.02.13 to 31.07.13
Five year 01.12.09 132.0p 117,326 – 01.02.15 to 31.07.15
1,130,242 1,301,686
The following table shows aggregate option entitlements under the Performance Share Plan outstanding at 31 March 2010. It also includes
information as to whether performance measures are applicable and, if so, whether they have yet been met.
Status of
Number of shares performance measure(s)
Date of grant 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 as at 31 March 2010
01.06.05 – 18,443 met
28.06.05 – 31,611 met
09.06.06 48,584 1,527,541 met
12.06.07 984,451 1,048,909 under measurement
01.07.07 34,040 34,040 under measurement
30.10.07 15,000 15,000 under measurement
10.06.08 1,137,391 1,202,320 under measurement
01.08.08 26,272 26,272 under measurement
07.11.08 – 23,678 under measurement
01.12.08 100,869 100,869 under measurement
03.06.09 1,674,104 – under measurement
4,020,711 4,028,683
27 MINORITY INTEREST
2010 2009
£000 £000
Opening minority interest 8,811 –
Minority share on acquisition of subsidiary – 7,138
Acquisition of minority interests (6,540) –
Share of profit for the year 18 454
Dividend (219) –
Foreign exchange (436) 1,219
Balance at 31 March 2010 1,634 8,811 Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
86 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
28 ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES
A) AUTOMATISME ENERGIE ELECTRONIQUE SYSTEMES SAS (“AEES”)
On 23 December 2009 the Company acquired the entire issued share capital of AEES, a French secure power company focused on the Energy
and Infrastructure market, for a cash consideration of £19.1 million, with a further payment of £1.8 million deferred for one year.
The purchase has given rise to acquisition goodwill of £9.9 million and other intangibles (customer lists and trade name) of £8.8 million.
Accounting
policy Fair value
Book value adjustments adjustments Fair value
£000 £000 £000 £000
NET ASSETS ACQUIRED
Property, plant and equipment 595 – – 595
Other intangible assets – customer lists and trade name 197 – 8,770 8,967
Investments 18 – (18) –
Deferred tax asset – 408 – 408
Inventories 2,837 – (90) 2,747
Trade and other receivables 4,676 – (32) 4,644
Cash and cash equivalents 2,145 – – 2,145
Trade creditors and other payables (3,238) (443) (77) (3,758)
Deferred taxation liability – – (3,466) (3,466)
Provisions (448) – (478) (926)
Post-employment benefits (43) (238) – (281)
6,739 (273) 4,609 11,075
Goodwill 9,869
Total consideration 20,944
SATISFIED BY:
Cash payment 18,979
Deferred acquisition costs 1,795
Directly attributable costs 170
Total consideration 20,944
Cash payment and costs 19,149
Less: cash acquired (2,145)
Cash flow on acquisition 17,004
Goodwill substantially represents the expertise and technical knowledge of AEES’s staff together with synergistic beneﬁts. Included in the
Company’s results for the 12-month period to 31 March 2010 are sales of £5.2 million and proﬁts of £0.6 million. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 87
28 ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED
B) CUSTOM POWER
On 15 June 2009 the Company acquired the trade and certain assets of Custom Power, a manufacturer and supplier of critical power protection
services to the US energy sector for a cash consideration of £2.9 million, with a further payment of £2.1 million deferred for two years.
The purchase has given rise to acquisition goodwill of £3.0 million and other intangibles (customer lists and trade name) of £2.6 million.
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
£000 £000 £000
NET ASSETS ACQUIRED
Property, plant and equipment 149 (30) 119
Other intangible assets – customer lists and trade name – 2,648 2,648
Inventories 852 (426) 426
Other payables (122) (122) (244)
Long-term provisions – (91) (91)
Deferred taxation liability – (857) (857)
Total 879 1,122 2,001
Goodwill 2,988
Total consideration 4,989
SATISFIED BY:
Cash 2,738
Deferred acquisition payment 2,129
Directly attributable costs 122
Total consideration 4,989
Cash flow on acquisition 2,860
Goodwill substantially represents the expertise and technical knowledge of Custom Power’s staff together with synergistic beneﬁts. Included in the
Company’s results for the 12-month period to 31 March 2010 are sales of £3.5 million and proﬁts of £0.2 million. Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
88 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
28 ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED
C) EMERGENCY POWER SYSTEMS PLC (“EPS”)
On 16 October 2009, Chloride Electronics Limited purchased the shares of Emergency Power Systems Limited (“EPS”) for a cash consideration
of £2.7 million with a further payment of £1.0 million deferred for up to 24 months.
The purchase has given rise to acquisition goodwill of £2.2 million and other intangibles (intellectual property, customer lists and trade name)
of £2.3 million.
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
£000 £000 £000
NET ASSETS ACQUIRED
Property, plant and equipment 327 (87) 240
Other intangible assets – customer lists and trade name – 2,293 2,293
Inventories 1,513 (405) 1,108
Trade and other receivables 1,570 (72) 1,498
Cash and cash equivalents 161 – 161
Trade creditors and other payables (1,259) (111) (1,370)
Current taxation (113) – (113)
Loans (1,482) – (1,482)
Deferred taxation liability – (782) (782)
Provisions – (24) (24)
717 812 1,529
Goodwill 2,162
Total consideration 3,691
SATISFIED BY:
Cash payment 2,532
Deferred acquisition costs 1,000
Directly attributable costs 159
Total consideration 3,691
Cash payment and costs 2,691
Less: cash acquired (161)
Cash flow on acquisition 2,530
Goodwill substantially represents the expertise and technical knowledge of EPS’s staff together with synergistic beneﬁts. Included in the
Company’s results for the 12-month period to 31 March 2010 are sales of £3.7 million and proﬁts of £0.4 million.
D) DB POWER ELECTRONICS (PVT) LTD
On 20 July 2009 the Company acquired a further 41% of the share capital of DB Power Electronics (Pvt) Ltd, a manufacturer and supplier of critical
power protection services in India for a cash consideration of £12.5 million. This brings Chloride’s total investment in the Company to 90%.
The interest in the controlling interest has been accounted for as a transaction between equity holders, and the difference of £6.0 million between
the consideration and the minority interest acquired has been charged directly to reserves. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 89
28 ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED
E) OTHER
The Company purchased the trade and certain assets of Malcolm Power Systems and Alternative Engineering Services on 9 April 2009 and
15 December 2009 respectively. These purchases gave rise to other intangibles (customer lists) of £1.0 million.
Fair value
Book value adjustments Value acquired
£000 £000 £000
NET ASSETS ACQUIRED
Intangible assets – customer lists 126 1,108 1,234
Property, plant and equipment 94 (49) 45
Inventory 14 (9) 5
Sundry creditors – (50) (50)
Provisions (36) – (36)
Deferred tax – (273) (273)
Total 198 727 925
Goodwill –
Total consideration 925
SATISFIED BY:
Cash 641
Deferred acquisition payment 182
Directly attributable costs 102
Total consideration 925
Cash flow on acquisition 743
Included in the Company’s results for the 12-month period to 31 March 2010 are sales of £1 million and proﬁts of £0.2 million in relation to
these purchases.
The Company also made payments of £0.2 million in respect of acquisitions made in prior periods.
If these acquisitions had been made on 1 April 2009, Group revenue would have been £357.2 million and Group proﬁt attributable to equity holders
of the parent would have been £21.2 million.
29 OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS
2010 2009
£000 £000
Operating lease payments recognised as an expense in the year 5,364 4,582
Minimum lease payments on leases falling due
Within one year 3,475 3,171
In the second to fifth years 6,619 5,410
After five years 11,239 11,525
21,333 20,106 Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
90 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
30 ANALYSIS OF NET DEBT
Exchange
At 1 April Acquisition translation At 31 March
2009 Cash flow of subsidiary difference 2010
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents 38,145 (8,058) – 199 30,286
Bank overdrafts (952) (4) – (103) (1,059)
37,193 (8,062) – 96 29,227
Debt due within one year (43,077) 32,909 – (291) (10,459)
Debt due after more than one year (9,088) (48,944) (1,482) 148 (59,366)
Finance lease obligations (475) 101 – (8) (382)
Net debt (15,447) (23,996) (1,482) (55) (40,980)
31 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
NON-WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES
Sales, purchases and balances outstanding were:
2010 2009
£000 £000
Sales 488 636
Purchases 316 126
Receivables 203 220
Payables 49 121
ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES
Sales, purchases and balances outstanding with associates were:
2010 2009
£000 £000
Sales 2,700 3,714
Purchases 11,788 2,385
Receivables 182 802
Payables 1,609 1,888
The Company has also provided guarantees of US$2.6 million (2009: US$3.1 million) to provide security for the debt of one of these companies.
MINORITY INVESTMENTS
Sales and balances outstanding with minority investments were:
2010 2009
£000 £000
Sales 898 600
Receivables 408 100
REMUNERATION OF KEY MANAGEMENT (THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS)
The remuneration of the directors who are the key management personnel of the Company is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration
Committee report on page 49. In addition, the share-based payment charge arising in relation to key management was £368,067 (2009: £330,974). CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 91
32 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
The Company has a number of pension or retirement beneﬁt arrangements, which are established to meet local legal requirements and practices
in the countries in which it operates. These arrangements comprise both deﬁned contribution and deﬁned beneﬁt schemes. At 31 March 2010,
the Company had a net deﬁcit of £17.6 million (2009: £12.6 million) in respect of its obligations under these arrangements.
Total retirement beneﬁt costs of £3.1 million were charged in the period (2009: £2.8 million), of which £2.2 million related to deﬁned contribution
schemes (2009: £1.9 million).
The principal deﬁned beneﬁt schemes are operated in the UK and Germany, and in Italy the Company participates in the statutory Trattamento di
Fine Rapporto (TFR) scheme. The bases of these schemes are as follows:
UK
In the UK the Company operates a hybrid pension scheme with both deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned contribution sections (the Chloride 1996 Scheme).
At 31 March 2006 the deﬁned contribution section of the scheme was separately identiﬁed within the scheme, with a separate investment pool.
The disclosures below for 2010 therefore represent only the deﬁned beneﬁts element. The deﬁned beneﬁt section of the Chloride 1996 Scheme
has been closed to new members since 1 April 1998. Funding is set after formal funding valuations carried out every three years by independent
actuaries. During the year the scheme entered into a buy-in arrangement, whereby the obligations relating to the pensioners in payment are exactly
matched by an insurance contract.
The expected level of contribution over the next ﬁnancial year will be £1.9 million.
GERMANY
In Germany the Company operates a deﬁned beneﬁt scheme which, in accordance with local practice, is unfunded. Provision for future liabilities
is made in the balance sheet in accordance with advice given by an independent actuary.
ITALY
In Italy the Company participates in the statutory TFR scheme which, in accordance with local practice, was unfunded. With effect from 1 January
2007 the administration of the scheme was changed so that entitlements for future service are funded and cease to be classiﬁed as deﬁned beneﬁts.
Provision for past service, for which the employee has not elected to take payment, continues to be accounted for as a deﬁned beneﬁt obligation.
FINANCIAL ASSUMPTIONS
2010 2009
UK Germany Italy UK Germany Italy
%%% %%%
Rate of increase in salaries 4.80 2.50 n/a 4.45 2.50 3.50
Rate of increase in pension payments 3.50 2.55 n/a 2.80 1.75 n/a
Discount rate 5.60 5.25 4.75 6.50 6.00 5.00
Inflation 3.50 2.55 2.00 2.80 1.25 2.00
The Company uses certain mortality rate assumptions when calculating scheme liabilities. These are as follows:
UK: PxA92 YOB MC Min improvement 1% pa (prior year PA92 C2020MC)
Germany: RT 2005 G (Prof. Heubeck)
Italy: 2006 (ISTAT) tables
2010 2009
UK Germany Italy Total UK Germany Italy Total
%%%% %%%%
LONG-TERM EXPECTED RATE
OF RETURN ON ASSETS
Equities 7.50 n/a n/a n/a 7.75 n/a n/a n/a
Fixed-rate bonds n/a n/a n/a n/a 5.30 n/a n/a n/a
Index-linked bonds n/a n/a n/a n/a 3.60 n/a n/a n/a
Insurance contracts 5.60 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Other 4.50 n/a n/a n/a 2.00 n/a n/a n/a
The overall expected return on assets is calculated as the weighted average of the expected return on each individual asset class. The return on
insurance policies is determined by the funding cost of the retirement obligations to which they relate. Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
92 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
32 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED
The net assets/liabilities of all pension schemes including schemes in France, India and Turkey at 31 March 2010 were as follows:
2010 2009
Other Other
UK Europe Other Total UK Europe Other Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
FAIR VALUE OF ASSETS
Equities 9,961 – – 9,961 10,323 – – 10,323
Fixed-rate bonds –––– 7,736 – – 7,736
Index-linked bonds –––– 2,065 – – 2,065
Insurance policies 13,164 309 – 13,473 ––––
Other 1,272 – 149 1,421 94 – 125 219
Total fair value of assets 24,397 309 149 24,855 20,218 – 125 20,343
Present value of scheme liabilities (34,476) (7,555) (417) (42,448) (25,665) (6,861) (414) (32,940)
Net deficit in scheme (10,079) (7,246) (268) (17,593) (5,447) (6,861) (289) (12,597)
ANALYSIS OF THE AMOUNT CHARGED
TO OPERATING PROFIT
Current service cost 353 537 24 914 474 118 55 647
Total operating charge 353 537 24 914 474 118 55 647
ANALYSIS OF THE AMOUNT
CHARGED/(CREDITED) TO
NET FINANCIAL INCOME
Interest on pension liabilities 1,654 331 16 2,001 1,696 320 12 2,028
Expected return on pension scheme assets (1,365) – (10) (1,375) (1,774) – (5) (1,779)
Net financing charge/(credit) 289 331 6 626 (78) 320 7 249
Total charge to the income statement 642 868 30 1,540 396 438 62 896
ANALYSIS OF AMOUNT
CHARGED/(CREDITED) TO
THE STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED
INCOME AND EXPENSE
Difference between expected and
actual return on scheme assets (290) – (9) (299) (6,096) – – (6,096)
% of scheme assets (1%) – – (1%) (30%) – – (30%)
Experience (losses)/gains
on scheme liabilities (7,594) (390) 45 (7,939) 1,319 313 (49) 1,583
% of scheme liabilities 22% 5% (11%) 19% (5%) (5%) 12% (5%)
Net actuarial (losses)/gains (7,884) (390) 36 (8,238) (4,777) 313 (49) (4,513)
The cumulative amount of actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income is £(1,564,000) (2009: gain £6,676,000).
The actual return on scheme assets in the period was a proﬁt of £1.0 million (2009: loss of £4.3 million). CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 93
32 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED
2010 2009
Other Other
UK Europe Other Total UK Europe Other Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
MOVEMENT IN PRESENT VALUE
OF DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION
DURING THE YEAR
Present value at 1 April 25,665 6,861 414 32,940 26,102 6,122 158 32,382
Current service cost 353 537 24 914 474 118 51 643
Employee contributions 167 – – 167 179 – – 179
Benefits paid (957) (913) (12) (1,882) (1,467) (408) – (1,875)
Other finance expense 1,654 331 16 2,001 1,696 320 9 2,025
Actuarial loss/(gain) 7,594 390 (45) 7,939 (1,319) (313) 49 (1,583)
Acquisition – 593 1 594 – – 165 165
Exchange – (244) 19 (225) – 1,022 (18) 1,004
Present value at 31 March 34,476 7,555 417 42,448 25,665 6,861 414 32,940
FAIR VALUE OF SCHEME ASSETS
At 1 April 20,218 – 125 20,343 25,397 – – 25,397
Expected return on plan assets 1,365 – 10 1,375 1,774 – 5 1,779
Contributions – by employer 3,894 – 26 3,920 433 – 15 448
Contributions – by employee 167 – – 167 177 – – 177
Benefits paid (957) – (12) (969) (1,467) – – (1,467)
Acquisition – 346 – 346 – – 98 98
Actuarial loss (290) – (9) (299) (6,096) – – (6,096)
Exchange – (37) 9 (28) – –77
Scheme assets at 31 March 24,397 309 149 24,855 20,218 – 125 20,343
HISTORY OF EXPERIENCE ADJUSTMENTS
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Present value of scheme liabilities 42,448 32,940 32,382 32,336 31,893
Fair value of scheme assets 24,855 20,343 25,396 26,531 25,592
Deficit in schemes 17,593 12,597 6,986 5,805 6,301
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 7,939 1,583 2,704 (980) 2,964
Experience adjustments on scheme assets (299) (6,096) (2,656) (239) 3,300 Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
94 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
33 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Group operates share-based payment incentive schemes which are available to Board members and certain senior executives. Full details are
included in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 43 to 51. The Group also operates Save As You Earn share option schemes which are open
to all UK employees.
Total expenses recognised in the income statement relating to share-based payment transactions were:
2010 2009
£000 £000
Charged to income statement 1,830 2,212
FAIR VALUE OF SHARE-BASED PAYMENT AWARDS
The fair value of these awards has been determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The assumptions used were as follows:
2010 2009
Risk-free interest rate 2.64% 5.59%
Dividend yield 3.15% 3.00%
Volatility 47.5% 35.1%
Expected lives of awards granted under:
Executive share option and award schemes Three years Three years
Savings-related share option schemes Three to five years Three to five years
Deferred bonus shares Two years Two years
Weighted average share price at time of award
Executive share option and award schemes 149.00p 242.95p
Savings-related share option schemes 171.00p 136.25p
Deferred bonus shares 180.00p 251.50p
Weighted average exercise price of new grants
Executive share option schemes – –
Executive share award schemes – –
Savings-related share option schemes 132.00p 128.00p
Deferred bonus shares – –
Details of share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
Executive share options SAYE
Weighted Weighted
Number exercise price Number exercise price
At 1 April 2008 6,806,110 102.75p 1,461,178 89.36p
Granted – – 414,195 128.00p
Exercised (3,454,761) 95.27p (390,106) 58.04p
Lapsed (110,000) 145.56p (183,581) 136.10p
At 1 April 2009 3,241,349 109.27p 1,301,686 104.51p
Granted – – 277,509 132.00p
Exercised (1,494,881) 93.37p (352,372) 76.08p
Lapsed (55,000) 188.22p (96,581) 147.97p
AT 31 MARCH 2010 1,691,468 1,130,242
Exercisable at the end of:
31 March 2009 2,478,461 92.08p 24,834 74.54p
31 March 2010 1,102,472 121.31p 29,318 119.67p
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise during the year was 172.3p (2009: 246.5p). CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 95
33 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED
EMPLOYEE SHARE AWARDS
Details of employee share awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
Performance share Deferred bonus
plan number shares number
At 1 April 2008 4,301,209 623,581
Granted 1,593,747 206,375
Exercised (1,436,423) (544,496)
Lapsed (429,850) (4,790)
At 1 April 2009 4,028,683 280,670
Granted 1,716,108 333,926
Exercised (1,593,319) (139,951)
Lapsed (130,761) –
AT 31 MARCH 2010 4,020,711 474,645
34 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Contingent liabilities of the Group amounting to £27,865,000 (2009: £19,951,000) are mainly in respect of bank performance bonds, operating leases
and other contractual commitments. No losses are expected to arise. Section 4: Financial statements and notes
FINANCIAL GLOSSARY
96 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
TERM USED MEANING
Adjusted earnings per share Basic earnings per share before acquired intangible amortisation and restructuring costs
Adjusted operating cash ﬂow Operating cash ﬂow before restructuring and other exceptional payments
Adjusted operating cash ﬂow conversion Adjusted operating cash ﬂow as a percentage of adjusted operating proﬁt
Adjusted operating proﬁt Operating proﬁt before amortisation of acquired intangibles and restructuring costs
Adjusted proﬁt before tax Proﬁt before tax before amortisation of acquired intangibles and restructuring costs
Constant exchange rates (“CER”) The Company produces its accounts in sterling. To give the reader better visibility of the
performance of Group entities it also produces certain measures at constant exchange rates.
This information is calculated by applying the exchange rates used in the translation of
consolidated results for the prior year to re-translate the results for the current year
Dividend cover Adjusted earnings per share divided by total dividend per share
EURIBOR The interbank offered rate for euro deposits
LIBOR The London interbank offered rate
Net debt Short- and long-term borrowing and ﬁnance lease obligations less cash and cash equivalents
Operating margin Adjusted operating proﬁt as a percentage of sales
Operating proﬁt Proﬁt before tax before ﬁnance costs and ﬁnance income
Restructuring costs Restructuring costs relate to exceptional charges arising from strategic change initiatives and
mainly comprise redundancy costs
Total shareholder return (“TSR”) The increase in share price in the period plus the value of reinvested dividends in that period
divided by the price at the beginning of the period CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 97
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Notes £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue 335,953 326,747 267,645 204,438 179,242
Operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangibles
and exceptional items (Adjusted Operating Profit) 44,699 46,405 36,069 23,485 17,482
Acquired intangible amortisation (5,555) (3,829) (2,201) (700) (91)
Exceptional items (5,936) ––––
Profit on ordinary activities before interest 33,208 42,576 33,868 22,785 17,391
Net finance income and expense (3,308) (2,750) (2,751) (1,786) (1,853)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 29,900 39,826 31,117 20,999 15,538
Tax on profit on ordinary activities (10,340) (12,755) (6,487) (5,546) (4,223)
Attributable to minority interests (18) (454) – – –
Profit for the period from continuing operations 19,542 26,617 24,630 15,453 11,315
Loss for the period from discontinued operations – – – – (256)
Profit for the financial year 19,542 26,617 24,630 15,453 11,059
Capital expenditure 4,460 5,438 5,191 3,152 2,627
Adjusted operating cash flow 1 48,473 43,007 30,043 24,332 16,444
Cash conversion % 2 108% 93% 83% 104% 94%
Assets employed
Non-current assets 157,235 127,034 99,111 85,717 70,035
Current assets less liabilities 3 16,247 30,741 17,125 (341) 4,862
Net assets employed 3 173,482 157,775 116,236 85,376 74,897
Source of finance
Equity shareholders’ funds 130,868 133,517 94,528 64,102 57,972
Minority interests 1,634 8,811–––
Net borrowings 40,980 15,447 21,798 21,274 16,925
Source of finance 3 173,482 157,775 116,326 85,376 74,897
Debt: equity ratio 4 30.9% 11.6% 23.1% 33.2% 29.2%
Earnings per 25p ordinary share
Adjusted 11.0p 11.5p 9.5p 6.6p 4.8p
Basic 7.7p 10.6p 10.0p 6.4p 4.7p
Diluted 7.6p 10.5p 9.9p 6.3p 4.7p
Net dividend per ordinary share 4.8p 4.3p 3.3p 2.6p 2.3p
Return on net assets 5 54.9% 68.2% 79.2% 72.1% 54.4%
Notes
1 Operating cash flow before exceptional payments.
2 Adjusted operating cash flow as a percentage of adjusted operating profit.
3 For the purpose of this summary: a) current assets less liabilities comprise current assets, less cash balances and other creditors and provisions for liabilities and charges b) net borrowings,
which comprise bank overdrafts and bank loans less cash balances, have been excluded from net assets employed and treated as a source of finance.
4 Debt: equity represents net borrowings as a percentage of shareholders’ funds.
5 This represents the profit on ordinary activities before interest excluding exceptional items and goodwill amortisation expressed as a percentage of the average of the net assets employed
excluding net debt and goodwill.
Section 4: Financial statements and notes
FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH Section 4: Financial statements and notes
COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AT 31 MARCH
98 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
2010 2009
Notes £000 £000
ASSETS
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Property, plant and equipment 4 923 977
Investments 5 148,686 148,686
Deferred tax assets 6 5,085 3,043
154,694 152,706
CURRENT ASSETS
Trade and other receivables 7 104,216 70,475
104,216 70,475
TOTAL ASSETS 258,910 223,181
LIABILITIES
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Bank overdrafts and other loans 9 45,447 58,363
Trade and other payables 8 29,818 42,669
Provisions 10 1,574 1,223
76,839 102,255
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Bank and other loans 9 59,366 8,900
Trade and other payables 8 76 –
Post-employment benefits 12 10,079 5,447
69,521 14,347
TOTAL LIABILITIES 146,360 116,602
NET ASSETS 112,550 106,579
EQUITY
Issued capital 65,750 65,275
Share premium 8,980 7,843
Own shares (9,167) (10,992)
Retained earnings 47,063 44,453
Hedge reserve account (76) –
TOTAL EQUITY 112,550 106,579
Approved by the Board on 24 May 2010
T R COBBOLD DIRECTOR N W WARNER DIRECTOR
The information on pages 98 to 108 inclusive forms part of these accounts. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 99
Share Share Own Hedging Retained
capital premium shares reserve earnings Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 April 2008 64,384 5,502 (12,063) – 50,754 108,577
Profit after tax –––– 9,990 9,990
Actuarial loss –––– (4,777) (4,777)
Tax on items recognised in equity –––– 67 67
Total comprehensive income –––– 5,280 5,280
Dividends paid –––– (10,690) (10,690)
Shares issued 891 2,341––– 3,232
Movements in respect of own shares – – 1,071 – (3,103) (2,032)
Share-based payments –––– 2,212 2,212
At 31 March 2009 65,275 7,843 (10,992) – 44,453 106,579
At 1 April 2009 65,275 7,843 (10,992) – 44,453 106,579
Profit after tax –––– 20,921 20,921
Actuarial loss –––– (7,884) (7,884)
Tax on items recognised in equity –––– 2,640 2,640
Losses on cash flow hedges – – – (76) – (76)
Total comprehensive income – – – (76) 15,677 15,601
Dividends paid –––– (12,114) (12,114)
Shares issued 475 1,137––– 1,612
Movements in respect of own shares – – 1,825 – (2,783) (958)
Share-based payments –––– 1,830 1,830
AT 31 MARCH 2010 65,750 8,980 (9,167) (76) 47,063 112,550
Section 4: Financial statements and notes
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH Section 4: Financial statements and notes
COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
100 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
2010 2009
£000 £000
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Operating loss (2,455) (5,891)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 415 344
Impairment of investments and loans receivable – (211)
Reversal of book loss on sale of property, plant and equipment – 13
Non-cash charge for employee share schemes 1,830 1,670
Post-employment benefits (3,541) 43
Increase/(decrease) in other provisions 351 (38)
OPERATING CASH FLOW BEFORE WORKING CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (3,400) (4,070)
(Increase) in trade and other receivables (36,436) (17,820)
(Decrease) in trade and other payables (11,062) (861)
CASH USED BY OPERATIONS (50,898) (22,751)
Income taxes received 4,771 174
Finance costs paid (3,422) (2,622)
Investment income 23,820 16,140
NET CASH (OUTFLOW) FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES (25,729) (9,059)
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (361) (231)
Sale of property, plant and equipment – 40
Purchase of shares in subsidiaries – (4,819)
NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES (361) (5,010)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Share capital issued 1,612 3,232
Purchase of own shares (958) (2,032)
(Decrease)/increase in short-term borrowings (32,510) 32,146
Increase/(decrease) in long-term borrowings 50,466 (22,300)
Equity dividend paid (12,114) (10,690)
NET CASH FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 6,496 356
NET (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (19,594) (13,713)
Overdrafts and cash equivalents at beginning of year (15,853) (2,140)
NET OVERDRAFTS AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR (35,447) (15,853) CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 101
1 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND BASIS OF ACCOUNTING
The separate ﬁnancial statements are presented in conformity with the Companies Act 2006 and are prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. The principal accounting policies and basis of accounting are the same as set
out in notes 1 and 2 of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
2 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the income statement of the Company is not presented as part of these accounts.
Of the Group consolidated proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year, a proﬁt of £20,921,000 (2009: £9,990,000) is dealt with in the accounts of the Company.
2010 2009
£000 £000
Operating profit is stated after charging the following:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 415 344
Net foreign exchange gains/(losses) 469 (407)
Statutory audit of the Company – remuneration of the auditor 135 123
All other services 137 22
Non-audit fees paid to Deloitte LLP are disclosed in note 5 to the Group consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
3 TAXATION
2010 2009
£000 £000
CURRENT TAX:
UK corporation tax (relief) at statutory rate (850) (1,819)
Foreign tax 81 105
Adjustment in respect of prior years (1,720) 281
Current taxation (2,489) (1,433)
DEFERRED TAXATION
Origination and reversal of temporary differences – current year (117) (616)
– prior year (59) 47
Total deferred tax (176) (569)
TOTAL TAX (RELIEF) (2,665) (2,002)
The table below reconciles the total tax credit with the UK corporation tax rate:
2010 2009
£000 £000
Profit before tax 18,256 7,988
Tax on profit arrived at by applying the standard rate of UK tax 28% (2009: 28%) 5,112 2,237
Impairment reversal not subject to tax (27) (59)
Dividends from Group companies not subject to tax (6,670) (4,571)
Movement in short-term timing and other differences – (42)
Foreign tax suffered on earnings 81 105
Tax (over)/under-provided in prior years (1,779) 328
Expenses not allowable for tax 618 –
TOTAL TAX CREDIT (2,665) (2,002)
The foreign tax charge includes amounts withheld from remittances to the UK of £81,000 (2009: £105,000).
Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (COMPANY) YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (COMPANY)
102 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
4 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Land and Fixtures and
buildings equipment Total
£000 £000 £000
COST OR VALUATION:
At 1 April 2008 409 3,033 3,442
Additions 18 213 231
Disposals – (152) (152)
At 1 April 2009 427 3,094 3,521
Additions – 361 361
AT 31 MARCH 2010 427 3,455 3,882
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION:
At 1 April 2008 251 2,048 2,299
Charge for the year 23 321 344
Credit on disposal – (99) (99)
At 1 April 2009 274 2,270 2,544
Charge for the year 25 390 415
AT 31 MARCH 2010 299 2,660 2,959
CARRYING AMOUNT:
At 31 March 2009 153 824 977
AT 31 MARCH 2010 128 795 923
At 31 March 2010 the Company had entered into contracts to acquire £nil of property plant and equipment (2009: £nil).
5 INVESTMENTS
2010 2009
£000 £000
INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
At 1 April 148,686 143,870
Purchase of shares in subsidiaries – 4,819
Impairment – (3)
At 31 March 148,686 148,686
Investments in Group companies are carried at cost less provision for impairment of £14,566,000 (2009: £14,566,000). CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 103
5 INVESTMENTS CONTINUED
Details of the Company’s subsidiaries at 31 March 2010 are as follows:
Company Company of incorporation Principal activity
AST Services Electronique SARL France Sales and service, power protection solutions
CHLD Singapore Pte Limited Singapore Sales and service, power protection solutions
Chloride Electronics Limited England Sales and service, power protection solutions
Chloride España S.A.U Spain Sales and service, power protection solutions
Chloride France S.A. France Manufacture, sales and service, power protection solutions
Chloride Power Protection Pty Limited Australia Sales and service, power protection solutions
Chloride Masterguard Power Systems Limited China Sales and service, power protection solutions
Chloride Portugal – Artigos Electronicos, Limitada Portugal Sales and service, power protection solutions
Chloride Power Protection Limited Thailand Sales and service, power protection solutions
Chloride Power Protection Polska Sp z.o.o. Poland Sales and service, power protection solutions
Chloride S.p.A. Italy Manufacture, sales and service, power protection solutions
DB Power Electronics (Pvt) Ltd India Manufacture, sales and service, power protection solutions
Masterguard do Brasil Limitada Brazil Sales and service, power protection solutions
Masterguard GmbH Germany Sales and service, power protection solutions
Masterguard Güç Kaynaklari Limited Sirketi Turkey Sales and service, power protection solutions
Masterpower Electronics Limited Scotland Sales and service, power protection solutions
Oneac Corporation USA Manufacture, sales and service, power protection solutions
Power & Electronic Services Limited Ireland Sales and service, power protection solutions
UP Systems, Incorporated USA Sales and service, power protection solutions
AEES SAS France Manufacture, sales and service, power protection solutions
Emergency Power Systems Plc UK Manufacture, sales and service, power protection solutions
Notes
1 The results of each subsidiary undertaking are included in the consolidated Group results for 2009/2010.
2 Except in the case of Chloride Power Protection Pty Limited, which has a class of preference shares in issue, shares in these principal subsidiary undertakings are ordinary shares
or their local equivalent.
3 With the exception of DB Power Electronics (Pvt) Ltd, which is 90% owned, the entire ordinary share capital of these principal subsidiary undertakings is held directly by the Company,
or indirectly by one of the Company’s subsidiaries.
6 DEFERRED TAX
Deferred tax comprises:
At 1 April Recognised Recognised Other At 1 April Recognised Recognised Other At 31 March
2008 in income in equity movement 2009 in income in equity movement 2010
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Post-employment benefits (197) (371) (957) – (1,525) 910 (2,207) – (2,822)
Other provisions (3,450) (107) 890 1,570 (1,097) (1,128) (432) 773 (1,884)
Accelerated tax depreciation (330) (91) – – (421) 42 – – (379)
(3,977) (569) (67) 1,570 (3,043) (176) (2,639) 773 (5,085)
Other movements during the year are in respect of transfers to current tax of other provisions of £773,000 (2009: £1,570,000). Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (COMPANY)
104 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
7 FINANCIAL ASSETS
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2010 2009
£000 £000
AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
Due from subsidiary undertakings 101,256 64,782
Other receivables 531 229
Prepayments and accrued income 612 2,090
Derivative assets 171 220
Current taxation receivable 1,646 3,154
TOTAL DEBTORS 104,216 70,475
8 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2010 2009
£000 £000
AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
Trade creditors 708 499
Amounts owing to subsidiary undertakings 25,879 38,232
Value added and payroll taxes 697 126
Other creditors – 230
Accruals 2,079 3,328
Derivative liabilities 455 254
29,818 42,669
AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER ONE YEAR
Derivative liabilities 76 –
TOTAL CREDITORS 29,894 42,669
9 BORROWINGS
2010 2009
£000 £000
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Bank overdrafts 35,447 15,853
Bank loans 10,000 42,510
45,447 58,363
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Bank loans 59,366 8,900
Of the non-current loans shown £18,500,000 are repayable between one to two years (2009: £nil) and £40,866,000 between two to three years
(2009: £8,900,000). CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 105
9 BORROWINGS CONTINUED
Analysis of borrowings by currency:
Sterling Euro US dollar Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2010
Bank overdrafts 21,351 15,237 (1,141) 35,447
Bank loans 43,500 25,866 – 69,366
64,851 41,103 (1,141) 104,813
Year ended 31 March 2009
Bank overdrafts 16,276 (171) (252) 15,853
Bank loans 44,000 7,410 – 51,410
60,276 7,239 (252) 67,263
The weighted average interest rate on the borrowings above was 2.3% (2009: 5.07%). A 1% change in the effective borrowing rate would change
interest payable by £0.5 million (2009: £0.5 million).
Borrowings and cash balances have been offset where the legal right of offset exists. The Company’s Articles of Association limit the external
borrowings of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings to an amount equal to twice the share capital and consolidated reserves.
Details of the Company’s committed facilities are disclosed in note 21 of the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
10 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES
Total
£000
At 1 April 2009 1,223
Profit and loss account 656
Utilised in the year (305)
AT 31 MARCH 2010 1,574
These provisions mainly relate to contractual and other obligations such as vacant property and routine legal matters for continuing and disposed
businesses. These provisions are expected to be substantially utilised within one year.
11 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
SUMMARY
The Company uses derivative contracts to hedge future transactions and cash ﬂows. At the balance sheet date the fair value of these contracts was:
2010 2009
Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Currency derivatives 170 (455) (285) 371 (103) 268
Interest rate swaps – (76) (76) –––
170 (531) (361) 371 (103) 268
Of these amounts £76,000 has been debited to the hedging reserve (2009: £nil). Net gains of £70,000 (2009: £nil) were transferred from the
hedging reserve to the income statement during the period.
The interest rate swap shown above is due for settlement between 0 and 4 years. All other derivative contracts will be settled within one year. Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (COMPANY)
106 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
11 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
AT 31 MARCH 2010
Designated Total
Loans and Amortised hedging carrying
receivables cost relationships Trading value Fair value
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Non-derivative assets 103,433––– 103,433 103,433
Derivative assets – – 46 125 171 171
103,433 – 46 125 103,604 103,604
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Non-derivative liabilities (27,269) – – – (27,269) (27,269)
Derivative liabilities – – (122) (409) (531) (531)
(27,269) – (122) (409) (27,800) (27,800)
Bank overdrafts – (35,447) – – (35,447) (35,447)
BANK AND OTHER LOANS:
Current – (10,000) – – (10,000) (10,000)
Non-current – (59,366) – – (59,366) (59,366)
(27,269) (104,813) (122) (409) (132,613) (132,613)
76,164 (104,813) (76) (284) (29,009) (29,009)
Net financial liabilities in sterling (5,417)
Net financial liabilities in other currencies (23,592)
FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
AT 31 MARCH 2009
Designated Total
Loans and Amortised hedging carrying
receivables cost relationships Trading value Fair value
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Non-derivative assets 68,014––– 68,014 68,014
Derivative assets – – – 371 371 371
68,014 – – 371 68,385 68,385
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Non-derivative liabilities (42,566) – – – (42,566) (42,566)
Derivative liabilities – – – (103) (103) (103)
(42,566) – – (103) (42,669) (42,669)
Bank overdrafts – (15,853) – – (15,853) (15,853)
BANK AND OTHER LOANS:
Current – (42,510) – – (42,510) (42,510)
Non-current – (8,900) – – (8,900) (8,900)
(42,566) (67,263) – (103) (109,932) (109,932)
25,448 (67,263) – 268 (41,547) (41,547)
Net financial liabilities in sterling (14,040)
Net financial liabilities in other currencies (27,507) CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 107
11 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY
The different levels of valuation methods of ﬁnancial instruments carried at fair value have been deﬁned as follows:
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly
(i.e. derived from prices).
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
All ﬁnancial assets and liabilities recognised by the Group at fair value can be classiﬁed as value using Level 2.
These comprise derivative assets at fair value of £171,000 (2009: £371,000) and derivative liability at fair value of £531,000 (2009: £103,000).
CURRENCY RISK
The Company has used a sensitivity analysis technique that measures the estimated change to the fair value of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments,
to the income statement and to equity of a 10% strengthening or weakening in sterling against all other currencies, from the rates applicable at
31 March 2010, with all other variables remaining constant. A 10% variation in the valuation of sterling at the balance sheet date would have an
impact of approximately £2.4 million (2009: £2.8 million). All of this would be taken to the income statement.
The amounts generated from the sensitivity analysis are estimates of the impact of market risk assuming that speciﬁed changes occur. Actual
results in the future may differ materially from these results due to developments in the global ﬁnancial markets which may cause ﬂuctuations in
exchange rates to vary from the hypothetical amounts, which therefore should not be considered a projection of likely future events and losses.
LIQUIDITY RISK
Detailed commentary on the Company’s liquidity position is set out on page 27 of the ﬁnancial review. Contractual liabilities related to the Company’s
ﬁnancial non-derivative liabilities are:
Between Between
Within one and two and
one year two years five years Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
2010
Bank overdrafts 35,447 – – 35,447
Bank and other loans 10,000 18,500 40,867 69,367
Related interest 1,800 1,517 289 3,606
Trade and other payables 27,739 – 76 27,815
Total 74,986 20,017 41,232 136,235
2009
Bank overdrafts 15,853 – – 15,853
Bank and other loans 42,510 – 8,900 51,410
Related interest 609 160 39 808
Trade and other payables 39,341 – – 39,341
Total 98,313 160 8,939 107,412
The Company’s core borrowings comprise three-year committed facilities with a number of banks. Typically the Company draws under these
facilities for periods between one week and three months and the interest rates applicable, LIBOR (or equivalent), are determined at the outset of
each drawing. The above table is drawn up on the assumption that the Company will continue to draw on these loans until the expiry of the facility
and that interest rates have been set at the rate applicable at 31 March.
The Company’s ﬁnancial assets mature within one year. Section 4: Financial statements and notes
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS (COMPANY)
108 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010
12 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
Post-employment beneﬁts represent the Company’s net obligation under the Chloride 1996 Pension Scheme. Full disclosure is made under the
UK scheme in note 32 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Group.
13 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
At 31 March 2010 the Company had receivable and payable balances with its subsidiaries of £101,256,000 (£2009: £64,782,000) and £25,879,000
(2009: £38,232,000) respectively. During the course of the year the Company received £6,795,000 for service charges and interest (2009:
£6,948,000), received dividends of £23,820,000 (2009: £16,967,000), and paid £394,000 in interest (2009: £874,000). The Company’s UK afﬁliates
made contributions of £247,000 to the Chloride 1996 Pension Scheme (2009: £486,000). The Company acts as sponsor to this scheme.
REMUNERATION OF KEY MANAGEMENT (THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS)
The remuneration of the directors who are the key management personnel of the Company is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration
Committee Report on page 49. In addition, the share-based payment charge arising in relation to key management was £368,097 (2009: £331,000).
14 OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS
2010 2009
£000 £000
Operating lease payments recognised as an expense in the year 199 199
Minimum lease payments on leases falling due
Within one year 199 199
In the second to fifth years 796 796
After five years 81 280
1,076 1,275
15 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Contingent liabilities amounting to £14,810,000 (2009: £8,643,000) are mainly in respect of guarantees of leases, borrowings, bank performance
bonds and other contractual commitments of subsidiary undertakings. CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 109
SHAREHOLDERS’ ENQUIRIES
Matters relating to shareholdings, such as a request for a replacement share certiﬁcate, notiﬁcation of a change of name or address, enquiries
regarding dividend payments or amalgamation of shareholdings should be addressed, quoting reference 489, to Equiniti, whose contact details
are set out below. The Registrar's website address for a range of shareholder services is www.shareview.co.uk.
GIFTING YOUR SHARES
If you wish to transfer shares as a gift, perhaps to another member of your family, please apply for an appropriate transfer form to the Company’s
secretarial department at the address set out below. Completed transfer forms should be returned to the Registrar, quoting reference 489.
If you have a small number of shares and would like to donate them to charity through ShareGift, please ask the Company's secretarial department
for a ShareGift transfer form. Completed ShareGift transfer forms should be returned direct to ShareGift, The Orr Mackintosh Foundation,
46 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 3HN.
UK CAPITAL GAINS TAX
Section 35 of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 provides for the rebasing of capital gains tax at 31 March 1982 in relation to assets held
on that date and disposed of after 5 April 1988. The date of 31 March 1982 is also relevant in determining the indexation allowances. The respective
market values of Chloride securities on 31 March 1982 were as follows:
Ordinary shares held at 31 March 1982 25.5p
Ordinary shares derived from the conversion of 7.5% cumulative convertible preference shares in August 1987 23.9p
Or, for shareholders who were at that time taxed under section 34 of the Finance (No. 2) Act 1975 in respect of
the capitalisation issue connected with the conversion 33.1p
LOW-COST SHARE DEALING SERVICES
Low-cost share dealing services are available to private investors, in respect of purchases or sales of shares in the Company through:
● The Share Centre Limited. Details of the service may be obtained by telephoning The Share Centre Limited on 01296 414144.
● Stocktrade, a division of Brewin Dolphin Securities Limited. Details of the service may be obtained by telephoning Stocktrade on 0845 601 0995
and quoting reference LOW C0124.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE
JON MESSENT
Ebury Gate, 23 Lower Belgrave Street, London SW1W 0NR
Registered in England number 35389
Telephone +44 (0)20 7881 1440
Facsimile +44 (0)20 7730 5085
E-mail enquiries@chloridegroup.com
Website www.chloridegroup.com
ADVISERS
AUDITORS BROKER AND FINANCIAL ADVISER
Deloitte LLP Investec Limited
BANKS REGISTRARS
Barclays Equiniti
BNP Paribas Fortis Aspect House
HSBC Spencer Road
Lloyds Banking Group Lancing
Royal Bank of Scotland West Sussex BN99 6DA
Santander Telephone 0871 384 2210* (from UK)
+44 121 415 7047 (from outside UK)
* Calls to this number are charged at 8p a minute from a BT landline.
Other telephone providers’ costs may vary.
Designed and produced by 85FOUR. Board photography by Robert Wheeler. Printed in England by Cousin, environmentally accredited printers, ISO 14001.
Printed on Challenger Offeset, which is produced using ECF (element chlorine free) FSC certified pulp. The printing processes are managed to prevent pollution.
Section 5: Additional information
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION, SECRETARY AND ADVISERS WWW.CHLORIDEGROUP.COM
Chloride Group PLC
Ebury Gate
23 Lower Belgrave Street
London SW1W 0NR
