 Cineworld Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Cineworld Group plc
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road
Chiswick
London W4 5PY
020 8987 5000
www.cineworld.com
www.cineworldplc.com
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review 
Highlights 2009 01
A Real Cinema Experience 02
Chairman’s Statement 04
Strategy and Market Overview 06
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
  Officers’ Review 08
Risks and Uncertainties 16
Corporate Responsibility 18
 
Governance 
Board of Directors 22
Directors’ Report 24
Corporate Governance Statement 29
Directors’ Remuneration Report 34
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in 
  respect of the Annual Report and the  
  Financial Statements 39
Independent Auditors’ Report to the  
  Members of Cineworld Group plc 40
 
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of  
  Comprehensive Income 41
Consolidated Statement of  
  Financial Position 42
Consolidated Statement of Changes  
  in Equity 43
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 44
Notes to the Consolidated  
  Financial Statements 45
Company Balance Sheet 77
Company Reconciliation of Movements in  
  Shareholders’ Funds 78
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 79
Shareholder Information 83 07 45.0
08 45.1
09
09
48.2
49.1
+6.9%
+8.9%
07 4.12
08 4.38
09
09
4.71
4.71
+7.5%
+7.5%
07 52.0
08 53.0
09
09
54.6
55.7
+3.0%
+5.1%
07 185.7
08 197.5
09
09
226.5
230.9
+14.7%
+16.9%
07 1.67
08 1.71
09
09
1.72
1.72
+0.5%
+0.5%
01
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Highlights
2009
Financial
Group revenue up 11.5% to £333.4m, up 9.4% on a pro rated  •	
52 week basis (2008: £298.9m); 
EBITDA •	
*
 up 5.1% to £55.7m (2008: £53.0m);
Operating profit increased to £39.6m •	 (2008: £38.3m);
Profit on ordinary activities before tax up 11.6% to £30.8m •	 (2008: £27 .6m);
Cash generated from operations increased to £54.6m •	 (2008: £48.4m); 
Net debt reduced to £104.3m •	 (2008: £117 .4m);
 Reported EPS •	
†
: 14.4p (2008: 14.3p); adjusted pro forma EPS 16.2p (based 
on 52 week adjusted pro forma earnings) (2008: 14.6p); 
 Proposed final dividend of 6.8p per share increases proposed full year •	
dividend to 10.0p per share (2008: 9.5p per share).
Operational
 Box office up 16.9% at £230.9m, up 14.7% on a pro rated  •	
52 week basis (2008: £197 .5m);
Admissions increased by 8.9% to 49.1m, 6.9% on a pro rated  •	
52 week basis (2008: 45.1m);
Average ticket price per admission up 7 .5% to £4.71 •	 (2008: £4.38);
 Average retail spend per person held firm at £1.72 •	 (2008: £1.71);
 Market share at 23.9% •	 (2008: 23.3%) (source: EDI Neilsen); 
New cinema openings at Aberdeen (10 screens) and Witney  •	
(five screens);
Digital Cinema Media (“DCM”) had a challenging year, in line with the •	
wider advertising industry.
Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”)
Admissions 
Millions
Average ticket price 
£
EBITDA 
£m
Box office revenue 
£m
Retail spend per customer 
£
+8.9%
+ 7.5%
+5.1%
+ 16.9%
+0.5%
  52 week period 
  53 week period
* EBITDA is defined as per the financial performance section of the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers’ Review.
†  Based on weighted average number of shares in the period of 141.7m. See Note 5 to the financial statements  
for calculations. Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
02
A Real Cinema Experience
t HE bIg
PICtu RE 03
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
2009 was another good year 
for Cineworld...
Cineworld Group was founded in 1995 
and is now one of the leading cinema 
groups in the UK and Ireland. We are 
dedicated to ensuring that all aspects of 
every visit are memorable – unparalleled 
quality of service, great shows, 
comfortable seating and tempting 
retail offers.
With 77 cinemas, Cineworld offers a range 
of exceptional venues for corporate or 
private events. Our state-of-the-art digital 
projection facilities can display any type of 
media, from PowerPoint presentations to 
feature films. With stadium seating and 
capacity ranging from 15 to over 500 
seats, Cineworld can offer the perfect 
size venue for every audience.
We continue to lead the way in digital and 
3D technology. Cineworld currently has 
one of the largest number of digital 
projectors across the UK – showcasing 
3D, live sport, live opera, interactive 
gaming or corporate presentations. 
All our theatres offer excellent facilities 
and have full disabled access.
790
screens
77
cinemas 04
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chairman’s 
Statement
I am pleased to report that Cineworld has 
delivered another successful year with strong 
growth in revenue and profitability and an 
increase in box office market share, even though 
2009 was an extremely challenging year from an 
economic point of view. The strong performance 
in 2009 confirmed the robust cash generative 
nature of our business, resulted in record 
figures and is enabling us to propose an 
increased dividend. 
Total revenues increased by 11.5% to £333.4m 
and Adjusted pro forma Earnings Per Share grew 
to 16.2p, an increase of 11.0% compared to the 
previous year. As our Balance Sheet is strong 
and with borrowings under control, the Board is 
pleased to be proposing an increase in the full 
year dividend to a record 10.0p per share 
(2008: 9.5p).
2009 was also an important year for the 
cinema industry in the UK which saw a major 
step forward in the use of digital media, 
evidenced by the well publicised success of 
3D films. Current 3D technology, which has 
advanced immeasurably since the much derided 
technology of past, was quickly accepted by 
cinema goers and, I believe, has ushered in a 
new era for the cinema industry. Thirteen 3D 
films were released in 2009, compared to only 
four in 2008 and the expectation is that there 
will be at least eighteen 3D films in 2010. 
Underpinning this trend is the fact that “Avatar” 
has become the most successful film at the box 
office in the history of cinema. 
The success of 3D during the year was enabled 
by the major conversion to digital projection 
within the industry. Here, Cineworld has led the 
way, investing in digital equipment in the early 
part of the year. Digital projection has also 
facilitated the screening of alternative content 
such as opera and live theatre productions. 
Our other key area of expansion was the 
opening, in the latter part of 2009, of a 10 
screen cinema in Aberdeen and a five screen 
cinema, in Witney, both with digital projection 
facilities in all auditoria. At the end of the 
year we operated 77 cinemas with a total 
of 790 screens.
The continued downturn in the wider advertising 
market has been well publicised, but it was 
nevertheless disappointing to report a significant 
fall in screen advertising revenues. We remain 
optimistic about the longer term prospects for 
screen advertising, in light of the opportunities 
afforded by our digital expansion and also from 
the advertising industry as a whole once demand 
picks up. 
t he strong performance in 
2009 confirmed the robust cash 
generative nature of our business.
Anthony bloom
Chairman 05
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Lawrence Guffey retired from the Board in 
November 2009, having served as a Non-
Executive Director since December 2004 and 
as Deputy Chairman since April 2007. I would 
like to take this opportunity to thank him for his 
valuable contribution to the business, and to 
welcome Alan Roux (who was previously 
Lawrence Guffey’s Alternate Director) to the 
Board. Cineworld’s people are at the heart of our 
business and, on behalf of the Board, I would 
like to thank all our management and our 
employees for their achievements, hard work 
and commitment to the Company.
There is general consensus that the economic, 
financial and competitive environment will 
again be challenging during the year ahead. 
Nevertheless thanks to the strength of our 
business which we have built over the last 
15 years and the continued hard work of 
our management and employees, we continue 
to look forward to the future with confidence.
Anthony bloom
Chairman
11 March 2010
At the end of the 
year we operated 77 
cinemas with a total 
of 790 screens. 06
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Our Strategy 
The Group’s primary objective is to consolidate 
its position as one of the leading cinema 
businesses in the UK and Ireland in terms 
of sites, screens and admissions and to 
improve its operating margins, thereby growing 
shareholder value. In order to achieve this, 
the Group will continue to:
Improve its offer to its customers; y
Grow box office revenues; y
Increase retail spend per customer; y
Increase other revenue streams; y
Grow the estate through selective new  y
openings, expansions and acquisitions;
Look to expand into complementary   y
markets; and
Use technology to improve our customers’  y
experience.
The key driver of our business, admissions, is 
derived by showing feature films in our multiplex 
cinemas. This, in turn, drives box office and the 
two other main income sources which are retail 
sales and third party advertising shown on our 
screens prior to feature presentations. The 
principal costs to the business are film rental 
and those of operating our cinemas.
Our other key area of 
expansion was the 
opening, in the latter 
part of 2009, of a 10 
screen cinema in 
Aberdeen and a five 
screen cinema in 
Witney, both with digital 
projection facilities in 
all auditoria.
t he business 
Model 07
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Market 
Overview
The UK and Ireland cinema market continues to 
be dominated by three major exhibitors; Odeon 
UCI, Cineworld and Vue. In total they account for 
over 70% of the total market box office. The rest 
of the market is represented by smaller multiplex 
chains and independents which tend to operate 
non-multiplex cinemas (less than five screens). 
This situation has remained largely constant 
because of the significant barriers to entry, both 
through acquisition and organically. The rate of 
new cinema openings has been falling in recent 
years, partly due to the limited number of new 
retail and leisure development opportunities 
and the long time it takes to bring developments 
to fruition. This has been exacerbated more 
recently due to reduced funding for developers 
in the present financial climate. 
In 2009, box office revenue in UK and Ireland 
increased 11% to £1.05bn (EDI Neilsen) whilst 
UK admissions increased 5.5% to over 173m 
(CEA). This demonstrated the resilience 
of cinema in the economic and consumer 
environment, the low price of going to the 
cinema compared to other forms of leisure and 
the desire for escapism. However, underpinning 
the overall success was the strong line up of 
films and the successful introduction of films 
in the 3D format. 
At the end of December 
2009, Cineworld had 
one of the largest 
digital estates of any 
cinema operator in 
the UK. 08
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chief 
Executive 
and Chief 
Financial 
Officers’ 
Review
Stephen Wiener
Chief Executive Officer
Richard Jones
Chief Financial Officer
Performance Overview
In the 53 week financial year box office revenue 
increased 16.9% to £230.9m (2008: £197.5m) 
or 14.7% on a 52 week basis, representing a 
box office market share of 23.9% (2008: 23.3%). 
The Group’s admissions increased by an 
impressive 4.0m on the prior year (8.9% on 
a reported basis or 6.9% on a 52 week basis). 
Average ticket price per admission increased 
by 7.5% to £4.71 (2008: £4.38) largely reflecting 
an improved mix and the higher ticket prices 
charged on 3D films. Retail spend per person 
held firm at £1.72 (2008: £1.71). 
Cineworld’s success in 2009 was underpinned 
by the excellent film slate as well as the 
successful introduction of 3D films. Overall 
prices were higher, reflected by the higher box 
office revenues, due to modest general price 
increases and also the benefit of the price uplift 
from 3D admissions. Approximately 12% of 
market box office was from 3D for the full year, up 
from approximately 10% in the first half of 2009.
box Office
A combination of strong price and admissions 
growth in the year enabled Cineworld’s box office 
to increase 16.9% to £230.9m (2008: £197.5m) 
and achieve a box office market share of 23.9% 
(2008: 23.3%). On a 52 week pro rated basis 
for 2009, box office increased by 14.7%. By this 
measure, Cineworld is the number two cinema 
operator in the UK and Ireland, according to EDI 
Neilsen (“EDI” an organisation which collects, 
reports and analyses information on the UK 
and Irish cinema industry). Admissions of 49.1m 
Cineworld’s success in 2009 was 
underpinned by the excellent film 
slate as well as the successful 
introduction of 3D films. 09
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
gave Cineworld a UK market share in admissions 
of 26.8% (up from 26.5% in 2008), making us 
the leading operator in the UK and Irish market 
on this basis (source: EDI). Average ticket price 
per admission increased 7.5% to £4.71 (2008: 
£4.38). The increase was partly aided by the 
premium pricing on 3D performances and by a 
larger adult audience mix during the year. The 
average ticket price excluding VAT of 3D was 
almost £5.90 compared to 2D of almost £4.54. 
Cineworld nevertheless continues to offer its 
customers compelling value with the lowest 
average ticket price of any of the major UK 
cinema groups. 
 
There were strong performances in the year 
from a number of core blockbusters which 
included “Harry Potter and the Half Blood 
Prince”, “Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen”, 
“The Hangover”, “Twilight Saga: New Moon” and 
“Star Trek”. All these films performed in line with 
industry expectations. The 2009 film highlight of 
the year was “Slumdog Millionaire”, a relatively 
unknown film released in the UK at the beginning 
of the year, quickly catching the attention of the 
film industry and cinema-going public and 
receiving much critical acclaim. It exceeded 
expectations by grossing over £30m in national 
box office and collected eight Oscar awards. 
 
The year also saw 13 major films released in 
3D, the most notable being “Avatar”, the highest 
grossing film of all time with strong support from 
“Bolt”, “Monsters Versus Aliens”, “Ice Age 3: 
Dawn of the Dinosaurs”, “UP” and “A Christmas 
Carol”. Overall Cineworld achieved a market 
share of 35% in 3D films. The success of 
these films has helped to raise the profile of this 
format, which in turn has supported cinema 
admissions and increased box office revenues. 
It is particularly pleasing to see the establishment 
of the 3D format in mainstream cinema 
entertainment and, given our strong position in 
the provision of digital facilities, enables us to 
give further choice to our customers. 
In line with our strategy, we have continued to 
offer customers the broadest range of films on 
the market. There were a number of small and 
mid range films which performed well during the 
year including “District 9”, “Paranormal Activity” 
and “The Time Traveller’s Wife” where we 
achieved higher individual market shares than 
our competitors. Whilst we remain the biggest 
exhibitor of Bollywood films in the UK with a 62% 
share of the UK market, the supply of product 
during the first half of 2009 was disrupted due 
to the Bollywood strike which resulted in our box 
office for Bollywood product falling 8% against 
2008. We remain the only major chain to screen 
Tamil language films. In addition, we showcased 
a series of other successful foreign language 
films such as “Coco before Chanel” and “Let the 
Right One In” which contributed favourably to our 
full year results. 
We made steady progress during the year in 
developing our alternative content offering and 
played a series of operas transmitted live via 
satellite from the New York Metropolitan Opera, 
opera and ballet from The Royal Opera House 
and theatre productions from the National 
Theatre. Since the year end, we have also 
successfully screened international rugby in 3D, 
further widening the choice which we are able to 
offer our customers. 
Retail
Despite the tough consumer environment, 
retail spend per person has held firm in 2009 
at £1.72 (2008: £1.71). This is a reflection of 
the competitive offers and strength of our 
promotions. As expected, our customers have 
become more value conscious given the tough 
economic backdrop, and we have responded 
with a number of value initiatives which have 
been successful.
During 2009, we refreshed and replaced a 
number of ice cream and general retail areas, 
adding 13 new Ben & Jerry’s scoop shops and 
refurbished a number of other retail stands. We 
are also pleased to report that we have renewed 
long-term arrangements with Coca Cola and 
Candyking, continuing our partnership with these 
recognised brands, which will help to maintain 
the value of our overall offer.
We also began targeting retail promotions at 
specific customer groups who typically spend 
less on retail products. Amongst the more 
successful initiatives were the high value “Buy 
One Get One Free” Coke promotion for Orange 
Wednesday customers and the high value 
Combo packages for our Unlimited customers. 
The results from these and other initiatives 
will be used to develop our offers further 
during 2010.
As reported at the last set of results, we 
have seen increased costs on key commodities, 
but the business has a number of long-term 
fixed price agreements in place which have 
afforded us a degree of protection. We have 
also continued to develop new social and 
environmental initiatives and have reduced the 
paper used in the production of our popcorn 
bags, as well as sourcing healthier cooking oil.
We played a series 
of operas transmitted 
live via satellite from 
the New York 
Metropolitan Opera, 
opera and ballet 
from The Royal Opera 
House and theatre 
productions from the 
National Theatre.
 53 week period ended  Pro rated 52 week period 52 week period ended 
 31 December 2009  ended 31 December 2009 25 December 2008
Admissions 49.1m 48.2m 45.1m
 £m £m £m
Box office 230.9 226.5 197.5
Retail 84.4 82.8 77.0
Other 18.1 17.8 24.4
Total revenue 333.4 327.1 298.9
Cineworld delivered 
a strong financial 
performance for 
the year. 10
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chief 
Executive 
and Chief 
Financial 
Officers’ 
Review
continued
Advertising
Digital Cinema Media Limited (“DCM”), our joint 
venture screen advertising business formed in 
July 2008, had a challenging year in line with the 
rest of the advertising industry. Screen 
advertising revenues fell 38.8% against the 
previous year which had benefitted from two 
months’ worth of revenue from the old Carlton 
Screen Advertising minimum guarantee, 
representing an additional £1.0m of revenue.
DCM’s primary function is to sell advertising 
time on cinema screens on behalf of Cineworld 
and its other clients. It also engages in related 
promotional work between advertisers and 
cinemas. The fall in revenues generated for 
Cineworld against the previous year largely 
reflected the state of the wider advertising 
industry, with reduced levels of demand.
A new management team at DCM, formed during 
the end of 2008 and early 2009, has been 
driving operational efficiencies and effectiveness 
so that the business is well positioned to 
capitalise on the increased flexibility offered to 
advertisers via the digital format, as well as any 
improvements to the overall advertising market. 
Cineworld believes that DCM remains an exciting 
prospect for us to drive future growth in revenue 
and profitability.
Investment in Digital
At the end of December 2009, Cineworld had 
one of the largest digital estates of any cinema 
operator in the UK. Digital projection is an 
important part of our strategy, which enables the 
screening of films (2D and 3D) and other content 
using digital media. During the first quarter of 
2009, the Group installed a further 74 digital 
projectors, thereby consolidating its leading 
position in digital. A number of existing digital 
projectors were also redeployed to larger 
auditoria, to satisfy customer demand while also 
maximising the financial benefits from screening 
3D films. Cineworld is currently installing a 
further 102 digital screens bringing the total 
number of digital screens in the estate to 265.
The film industry thrives on technological 
advances and the swift adoption of 3D, with 
thirteen 3D films shown in 2009 and at least 18 
scheduled for 2010, means the industry appears 
set to enjoy further growth from 3D and digital 
content in 2010 and beyond, with Cineworld well 
placed to capitalise on this trend.
u nlimited Card Programme
Our unique subscription service, Unlimited, 
offers a competitive value proposition to our 
customers. The service offers customers the 
opportunity to pay a fixed monthly (or annual) 
subscription which enables them to watch 
standard films at our cinemas as many times 
as they wish. Cineworld prides itself on being 
the only cinema operator in the UK and Ireland 
to offer this service which currently has 
approximately 240,000 subscribers. The service 
is one of the pillars which underpin our strategy 
of growing other revenues and admissions. 
It brings to the Group the financial benefits of 
regular subscription income and reduces the 
level of fluctuations in our revenues. It also 
brings operational benefits by encouraging 
repeat visits, often at off peak times. This, in 
turn, enables us to improve capacity utilisation 
at our cinemas, provide more retail opportunities 
and introduce a wider range of films than our 
competitors. As a result, we have delivered 
significant growth in market share amongst the 
smaller, less mainstream films in 2009.
Initiatives and Developments
The investment made in our consumer website 
in late 2008 has generated on-line sales up 13% 
on the previous year and recorded over 48m 
visits in 2009. We also launched a mobile 
enabled web booking service in the year to 
capitalise on increased use of handheld devices 
by our customers and their preference to book 
via the web rather than by telephone.
Progress continued to be made in growing the 
“My Cineworld” membership on our consumer 
website which stood at 200,000 at the end of 
the year, a 100% increase over the year. This 
is an important tool for us in engaging with our 
customers and in understanding how we can 
improve our offer to them, thereby improving 
customer retention and increasing visits to our 
cinemas. Our partnership with Tesco continues 
to flourish and over 200,000 admissions in 
2009 were achieved through their Clubcard 
programme. Tesco has also invested in TV 
advertising to promote the ticket offer, raising 
Cineworld’s brand profile. Our new gift card 
proposition was rolled out in the year and is 
being sold at many well known retail outlets. It 
replaces our existing paper based gift vouchers 
and will improve operational efficiencies on 
redemption at the tills as well as facilitate 
payment for our customers. Since the year end, 
we have expanded our marketing team to 
increase focus on digital related opportunities 
in screenings of alternative content and 
opportunities in the Business 2 Business sector.
Our People
Attracting, developing and retaining talented 
staff is important for our business. It is vital for 
our continued success that we encourage our 
employees’ personal development and career 
progression. A new performance management 
framework was implemented during the year. 
It involved all senior and line managers with 
the aim of providing meaningful employees’ 
objective setting and structured performance 
reviews. By using this framework, we aim to 
increase further the high proportion of 
management and supervisory positions which 
are held by internally promoted employees, 
thereby bringing operational and financial 
benefits to the Group. As part of the drive to 
increase the efficiency and effectiveness of staff 
recruitment, a new recruitment website was 
launched in the year. It provides cinema 
managers with a tool to select candidates 
efficiently and then to process the selections 
quickly and effectively. 11
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
“My Cineworld” 
membership on our 
consumer website 
which stood at 200,000 
at the end of the year, 
a 100% increase over 
the year. 12
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial Performance
 53 week period ended  Pro rated 52 week period 52 week period ended 
 31 December 2009 ended 31 December 2009 25 December 2008 
 total total Total
Admissions 49.1m 48.2m 45.1m
 £m £m £m
Box office 230.9 226.5 197.5
Retail 84.4 82.8 77.0
Other 18.1 17.8 24.4
Total revenue 333.4 327.1 298.9
EBITDA* 55.7 54.6 53.0
Operating profit 39.6 38.9 38.1
Financial income 1.2 1.2 1.9
Financial expenses (9.9) (9.7) (12.5)
Net financing costs (8.7) (8.5) (10.6)
Share of profit from joint venture (0.1) (0.1) 0.1
Profit on ordinary activities 
before tax 30.8 30.3 27.6
Tax on profit on ordinary 
activities (10.4) (10.2) (7.4)
Profit for the period attributable 
to equity holders of the Company 20.4 20.1 20.2
*  EBITDA is defined as operating profit before depreciation and amortisation, onerous lease and other non-recurring and 
non-cash property charges, transaction and reorganisation costs.
New Openings
In line with our strategy for growing our estate, 
we successfully opened a 10-screen cinema in 
Aberdeen and a five screen cinema in Witney in 
October 2009, both with full digital projection 
facilities. Looking further ahead to 2010 and 
beyond, our cinema opening programme is likely 
to be impacted by the availability of finance for 
developers and therefore uncertainty over the 
timing of projects. Nevertheless, our national 
expansion remains a key strategic priority for the 
Group over the medium term as we seek to 
deliver growth for our shareholders and we 
continue to pursue such opportunities.
Key t rends and Factors Potentially Affecting 
the Future
The future success of the Group in 2010 will 
remain principally dependent on the strength 
of the film releases during the year. Sequels 
and franchises will continue to contribute 
a significant number of the higher profile 
blockbuster films. Many such films outperform 
the original film or concept, so the film studios 
will continue to look to capitalise on proven 
successful formulae. The overall film release 
programme for 2010 is known and there is a 
strong line up of potential blockbuster films 
which include a range of sequels and new films.
The enormous success of “Avatar” has further 
elevated the profile of 3D films and has given 
the 3D format and digital technology greater 
impetus. More films are planned for release in 
3D together with conversion of older films to 3D. 
To date, most 3D films have tended to be of the 
animated, computer generated imagery variety, 
though as 3D technology and film making and 
production improve, we expect to see more 
live films in 3D. In addition, we have already 
successfully started to screen certain high-
profile rugby events in 3D in the early part of 
2010 and would anticipate further opportunities 
to show similar alternative content.
The major product for the cinema industry will 
remain 2D films, though 3D and other content 
will continue to gain in popularity as more 
content is provided digitally. Our plans for digital 
mirror these trends and we will continue to 
convert our existing estate to digital.
As previously reported, we enjoyed more 
mid week business in 2009, particularly in 
conjunction with our “Bargain Tuesdays” 
promotion and “Orange Wednesdays”. The two 
days combined now contribute over 27% of 
weekly admissions for the year, up from a little 
over 25.5% for 2008 and demonstrates that 
customers have been seeking greater value in 
the current economic climate.
An improving economy will be good all round 
for the business and aid the recovery of the 
advertising market and of our screen advertising 
revenues in particular. However, plans for new 
cinemas will remain less certain until finance for 
developers becomes more available. We will 
continue to identify and sign agreements with 
developers for new cinemas in anticipation of 
when the fiscal situation eases.
Cineworld will continue to offer a highly 
compelling choice within the wider range of 
entertainment and leisure activities. Going to the 
cinema will remain one of the best value forms 
of popular entertainment and will continue to 
attract audiences because of the film product 
and the immersive viewing experience that 
cannot be matched by any other media.
Chief 
Executive 
and Chief 
Financial 
Officers’ 
Review
continued 13
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Revenues
Total revenue for 2009 was £333.4m, a rise 
of 11.5% on the prior period (2008: £298.9m) 
or a 9.4% rise on a pro rated 52 week basis.
As a result of strong film product and 
maintenance of our market share, we have 
enjoyed very buoyant trade during the year 
and box office was 16.9% higher at £230.9m 
(2008: £197.5m). On a pro rated 52 week basis 
for 2009, box office was 14.7% higher than 
2008 on 6.9% more admissions. 
Retail sales for the year were up 9.6% at 
£84.4m (2008: £77.0m) or 7.5% higher on a pro 
rated 52 week basis. The percentage increase is 
less than that of box office and is reflective of 
the challenging consumer environment. 
Other revenues were down 25.8% to £18.1m 
(2008: £24.4m). Excluding the additional week in 
2009, the adverse variance increases to 27.0%. 
Income from non-screen advertising such as 
ticket bookings, theatre hires, sponsorships and 
games were up 20.0% against the previous year, 
but their performance was overshadowed by a 
38.8% fall during the year in screen advertising 
revenue. The previous year also benefitted from 
two months’ worth of revenue from the old 
Carlton Screen Advertising minimum guarantee, 
being an additional £1.0m of revenue.
EbIt DA* and Operating Profit
EBITDA was up 5.1% at £55.7m against the 
2008 figure of £53.0m and was achieved 
through better spend levels and cost margins 
and continued management of operating costs. 
These were partly offset by rising energy costs 
during the year and the shortfall in screen 
advertising revenue. The EBITDA margin was 
adversely impacted by the change in the sales 
mix from reduced screen advertising revenue, 
nearly all of which feeds directly into EBITDA. 
Operating profit increased to £39.6m (2008: 
£38.1m). The estimated contribution to 
EBITDA from the additional week in 2009 was 
approximately £1.1m and approximately 
£0.6m to operating profit. 
Earnings
Overall profit on ordinary activities before tax 
was £30.8m compared with £27.6m in 2008. 
Basic earnings per share amounted to 14.4p 
and adjusted pro forma earnings per share were 
16.2p (using a normalised tax rate of 28.0%). 
This compares favourably with the 2008 
adjusted pro forma earnings per share of 14.6p. 
The weighted average number of shares during 
2009 was 141.7m and no shares were issued 
during the period.
Finance Costs
The falls in interest rates during the later part of 
2008 benefited the Group during 2009 and the 
early part of 2010. The interest expense in the 
year relates primarily to interest on bank debt. 
The majority of the remaining interest charge  
is non-cash interest on onerous leases and the 
pension scheme.
taxation
The overall tax charge was £10.4m giving an 
overall effective tax rate of 33.8% for the year 
(2008: 26.8%). The corporation tax charge 
consisted of the charge in respect of the current 
year of £7.1m and a charge of £1.7m relating 
to prior years. The balance of the tax charge 
of £1.6m resulted from the utilisation of a 
deferred tax asset principally relating to capital 
allowances (the difference between the tax 
written down value of the capital allowance and 
the net book value of the underlying assets).
Cash Flow and balance Sheet
The Group continued to be strongly cash 
generative at the operating level during the year. 
Total cash generated from operations increased 
to £54.6m (2008: £48.4m). This reflects the 
healthy conversion rate of our profits into cash 
flow that is the nature of our business. There 
was a working capital cash inflow for the year 
arising from an increase in the level of creditors 
at the end of December, which reflects the 
higher level of trade during the Christmas period. 
The high level of internally generated cash has 
funded our entire capital expenditure whilst 
repaying debt of £9.0m and paying dividends 
of £13.5m. Furthermore, the Group enjoys 
the security of a revolving credit facility of up 
to £30.0m (undrawn at the end of the year), as 
part of the overall bank facility which further 
enhances the Group’s overall liquidity.
Net cash spent on capital for the year of £15.6m 
consisted of gross expenditure of £18.3m 
against which contributions of £2.7m were 
received from the landlords. Of the gross 
amount, £4.4m related to new digital projectors 
and £6.5m represented equipment replacement, 
site refurbishments and expenditure on various 
initiatives such as website enhancements and 
upgrading of automated ticket sales points. The 
balance of capital expenditure of £7.4m related 
to the cost of opening the new 10 screen cinema 
at Aberdeen and the new five screen cinema 
at Witney. The contributions received from 
the landlords have been treated as reverse 
premiums and will be amortised to the profit  
and loss account over the terms of the 
respective leases.
As a result of strong 
film product and 
maintenance of our 
market share, we have 
enjoyed very buoyant 
trade during the year. 14
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chief 
Executive 
and Chief 
Financial 
Officers’ 
Review
continued
The enormous success 
of “Avatar” has further 
elevated the profile of 
3D films and has given 
the 3D format and 
digital technology 
greater impetus.  15
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Net debt at the end of December 2009 fell 
to £104.3m (2008: £117.4m), due to the 
repayment of £9.0m of the bank loan and the 
maintenance of a healthy cash balance. Net 
debt included a £3.9m liability valuation of 
the interest rate swap hedge on the bank loan 
(2008: £4.2m liability). The liability position 
arose because the fixed rate of interest payable 
on the swap was higher than the three month 
LIBOR rate receivable on the hedged portion 
of the loan for the remainder of its term. 
Like the previous year, the Group remained well 
within its banking covenants and continued to 
achieve the financial targets which enabled it to 
benefit from a low margin on its bank debt of 
0.95% above three month LIBOR. By reducing 
net debt and improving EBITDA during the year 
ahead, the Group will increase scope to reduce 
the margin on its bank debt further to 0.7% 
above three month LIBOR. 
Dividends
The Board continues to apply a dividend policy 
reflecting the long-term earnings and cash flow 
potential of Cineworld. In line with the above 
policy, the Directors are recommending to 
shareholders for approval a final dividend in 
respect of the year ended 31 December 2009 
of 6.8p per share, which taken together with 
the interim dividend of 3.2p per share paid in 
October 2009, gives a total dividend in respect 
of 2009 of 10.0p per share, a 0.5p increase 
from the level in 2008. Subject to shareholder 
approval, the final dividend will be paid on 
7 July 2010 to shareholders on the register 
on 11 June 2010. Going forward, subject 
to business performance and the Group’s 
investment requirements, in accordance with our 
desire to provide shareholders with an attractive 
level of cash distribution, the Board expects to 
increase the dividend taking account growth in 
adjusted pro forma earnings per share and our 
existing target payout ratio of 60% of underlying 
net income.
Current t rading and Looking Ahead
2010 has started well in view of the adverse 
weather conditions across the UK in January. 
We have enjoyed some carry over of business 
from the Christmas blockbuster films, in 
particular “Avatar” which has exceeded 
industry expectations to become the biggest 
film of all time (in world box office terms), 
overtaking Titanic.
However, we are not complacent and will 
continue to work hard to improve our competitive 
position across the United Kingdom. We remain 
committed to offering our customers the 
broadest range of films in the most modern 
and comfortable of cinema multiplexes. We 
constantly seek to update and invest in our 
customer offer with a clear focus on achieving 
operational and financial targets. 
Given the sound financial standing of the Group, 
we feel well positioned to take advantage of 
business opportunities which may arise in the 
future. With an exciting film release schedule in 
2010, we are confident of the prospects for the 
business in the forthcoming year.
Stephen Wiener  Richard Jones
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
11 March 2010 
We enjoyed more 
mid week business 
in 2009, particularly in 
conjunction with our 
“Bargain Tuesdays” 
promotion and 
“Orange Wednesdays”. 16
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Risks and 
uncertainties
The following is a summary of the principal 
risks and uncertainties to the business. If 
any of these risks or other unforeseen risks 
materialise, they could have a serious adverse 
effect on the Group’s business and its financial 
condition, in turn impacting upon the value of its 
securities in issue. Where possible and 
appropriate, the Group seeks to mitigate these 
risks and uncertainties. Some factors which may 
mitigate particular risks and uncertainties are 
also set out below. 
Availability of Film Content
Cinema-going in the UK is driven primarily 
by output from Hollywood, which is dominated 
by six film studios. There is a risk that these 
studios may seek to negotiate film hire terms 
less favourable to Cineworld. Such a move could 
be countered in part by Cineworld’s negotiating 
position due to its market share in the UK and 
Irish markets. 
During periods where there are fewer or no major 
films to drive cinema attendance, our box office 
revenues may decline. Cineworld’s Unlimited 
Card subscription service generates regular 
subscription revenues which helps to offset 
lower box office receipts during quieter trading 
periods. It is also part of Cineworld’s wider 
strategy to promote interest in a range of films 
beyond the traditional Hollywood blockbuster in 
such areas as Bollywood, other foreign language 
and small and mid-range films. 
Poor Film Scheduling
After release, the commercial success of a film 
can easily be measured by the level of box office 
revenues. There are however inherent risks 
in trying to forecast the success of a film due 
to the subjective qualities of the product and 
preferences of the customer. Cineworld employs 
a specialist team which focuses specifically on 
such matters and is experienced in film booking 
and scheduling.
Digital Conversion
The majority of Cineworld’s projection facility 
remains in 35mm rather than digital format, 
as is the case with the whole UK cinema 
industry. The slow conversion to digital within 
the UK cinema industry is mainly due to the high 
costs of new equipment. The film studios stand 
to make significant savings from producing 
digital prints due to lower film distribution and 
production costs and there is a risk that the 
film studios will be encouraged to reduce the 
supply of new films in 35mm. This, in turn, could 
make 35mm prints more difficult to obtain and 
more costly to hire, thereby forcing cinemas to 
either convert to digital or, potentially, go out 
of business. 
Cineworld currently has one of the largest digital 
and 3D estate in the UK and is financially better 
placed than many other exhibitors in the UK to 
address the digital conversion issue.
Alternative Media
Film studios may choose to release their films 
through other channels instead of primarily 
through exhibition at cinemas. The box office 
success of a film is often, however, an important 
factor in establishing its value in subsequent 
film distribution channels such as DVD, cable 
and pay television and the internet.
Also the film studios may seek to reduce the 
DVD release window (the period between the 
film being released at the cinema and on DVD). 
The window is currently agreed at approximately 
16 weeks to capitalise on box office awareness 
and success. Cinema exhibitors have historically 
mitigated this threat by refusing to screen films 
which has minimised reductions in the release 
window to date.
The existence of DVD (and video before that) 
has proven the ability of cinema to co-exist 
with alternative media. Additionally, the increase 
in use of digital and 3D technology in cinemas 
should encourage the film studios to continue 
to use cinemas as the primary release channel.
 
Advancement of t echnology
The continuing development of existing and 
new technology (such as 3D television) may 
introduce new competitive forces for the film 
going audience. The cinema does, however, 
provide a unique social experience that to date 
cannot be matched by watching films at home. 
Film Piracy
Film piracy (aided by technological advances) 
has long-term implications for the business and 
industry, as it may eventually force film studios 
to invest less in films, resulting in the release 
of fewer films and/or an increase in the use of 
other channels for releasing films. So far, the 
impact of piracy has been higher on alternative 
media (especially on DVD) than on cinema. 
Furthermore, it is currently not possible to 
produce a 3D pirated version of the original 
film from a portable recording device used 
in a cinema. 
Screen Advertising Revenue
Screen advertising accounts for a significant 
proportion of the Group’s profits and the level 
of revenues earned will be affected by the 
overall demand for advertising and the 
competitive pressures for that advertising 
spend. The formation of Digital Cinema Media 
Limited in 2008, with a joint venture partner, 
was a positive step towards taking closer control 
of future screen advertising revenues. The 
advantages of screening advertisements to a 
captive audience in cinemas and the potential 
of digital media to deliver more and varied 
advertising are potential opportunities to 
attract more advertisers and to generate 
higher revenues.
The continuing 
development of existing 
and new technology 
(such as 3D television) 
may introduce new 
competitive forces 
for the film going 
audience. 17
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Poor Location Selection
The selection of the wrong location for the 
development of new cinemas could result in 
lower than expected returns and a series of poor 
decisions on location could seriously impact the 
Group. Each potential site is reviewed carefully 
and the management team are experienced in 
the choice of location for, and development of, 
new sites.
u K and g lobal Economy 
The main driver of cinema-going is the film 
though it is recognised that macro-economic 
influences may affect cinema-going and the 
level of retail spend per customer on each visit. 
With cinema being a less expensive form of 
entertainment and leisure, economic downturns 
may benefit cinemas at the expense of other 
entertainment and leisure activities.
Any reduced consumer demand may impact 
the level of advertising spend which may lead 
to reduced screen advertising revenues. 
In addition, the price of energy and foodstuffs 
has a direct impact on costs which we may not 
be able to pass on to customers. 
The failure of one of the banks used by the 
Group could result in the loss of deposits and/or 
banking facilities. Banks are monitored and 
reviewed and deposits spread between a 
number of institutions to reduce the risk.
Availability of Capital
The cost and availability of finance, both debt 
and equity, will affect the Group’s ability to 
undertake investment and expansion. This has 
been highlighted by the recent developments in 
the financial world which have caused severe 
reductions in lending and in reduced investor 
confidence. Lack of available capital has 
impacted property developers who have not 
been able to proceed with developments which 
would have included new cinemas. Reduced 
lending may also affect the financing of film 
productions which could reduce the supply of 
films and/or delay their production and releases 
in cinemas.
 
Existing and New Competitors
Existing competitors could change their 
strategies or a new competitor could enter the 
market at a local or national level reducing trade. 
The cost of developing new sites or acquiring 
existing cinemas are barriers to entry as is the 
lack of readily available cinemas for acquisition. 
Loss of Key Management (or failure to attract 
or retain the talent required for its business)
The policy of the Board is to attract, retain 
and motivate executives of the calibre and 
experience required, through competitive 
remuneration packages which may have a cost 
implication. Cineworld aspires to be a quality 
employer, seeking to provide the conditions 
to enable all employees to progress in their 
employment and develop their skills and abilities 
and to promote internally where possible. 
Failure of It Systems and Suppliers
The failure of the Group’s IT systems, including 
its website, telephone booking service and 
Unlimited Card scheme administration, could 
seriously impact its continued success. The 
Group’s website, telephone booking service 
and Unlimited Card scheme administration 
are hosted by different specialist companies. 
Suppliers are monitored and the Group employs 
an appropriately qualified team to maintain its 
in-house systems.
g overnment Regulations and Actions
Cineworld’s business and operations are 
affected by central and local regulations in 
such areas as planning, environmental and 
health and safety matters, licensing, food and 
drink retailing, and the minimum wage. Failure to 
comply with this type of legislation may result 
in fines and/or suspension of the activity or 
entire business operation. In addition, changes 
to pension legislation and regulation relating to 
the Group’s defined benefit schemes, could 
result in additional costs from funding the 
schemes’ deficits or from changes in the way 
they are administered. 
terrorism
Terrorist attacks, civil unrest, or other 
geopolitical uncertainty could adversely impact 
cinema attendances and the efficient operation 
of the Group’s business.  18
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Corporate 
Responsibility
The Board is committed to ensuring that an 
appropriate standard of corporate governance 
is maintained throughout the Group. This 
commitment includes recognition by the 
Group of the importance of taking into account 
its corporate social responsibilities (“CSR”) 
in operating the business. In this context, 
Cineworld seeks to integrate CSR considerations 
relating particularly to social, ethical, health and 
safety, and environment issues in its day-to-day 
operations. The Board acknowledges its duty 
to ensure the Group conducts its activities 
responsibly and with proper regard for all its 
stakeholders including employees, shareholders, 
business partners, suppliers and the local 
communities. Further information in respect of 
the Group’s activities is set out below together 
with illustrative examples.
Community
Cineworld observes the British Board of Film 
Classification’s guidelines for film classification 
unless the local authority specifies otherwise; 
within this, however, it seeks to show as wide 
a range and other screen content as possible. 
It often uses the demands of local communities 
to help direct what sort of product it shows 
Cineworld was once again the leading exhibitor 
of Bollywood product with a 62% box office 
share of the 51 Bollywood films released during 
the year (a lower number than usual due to the 
widely publicised strike which lasted from April 
until June). It also shows more foreign language 
films, American independent productions and 
smaller British releases than its principal 
multiplex competitors. In addition to film, 
Cineworld has continued to branch out into 
alternative content and has exhibited live opera 
from the Metropolitan Opera in New York, ballet 
from the Royal Opera House and theatre from 
the National Theatre which has all helped attract 
wider audiences to our cinemas.
Cineworld works with, and supports, charities, 
local government and community groups 
on local and national events and initiatives. 
In anticipation of the opening of a new multiplex 
in Aberdeen in December 2009, the Group 
sponsored another Cineworld branded Variety 
Club Sunshine coach which was given to 
Woodlands School, based in Aberdeen catering 
for 29 children aged 5 to 19 with severe and 
complex needs. Local churches have also 
started to hire our cinemas for services on 
Sunday morning more, a time when they are 
traditionally quiet, giving them a further and 
different role, in the community.
During the year, Cineworld also started to 
sponsor two MA scholarships at the National 
Film and Television School. It was once again 
the major venue partner for the Edinburgh 
International Film Festival as well as the 
Jameson Dublin International Film Festival and 
a number of other smaller film festivals across 
the UK. Recently Cineworld has teamed up with 
Global Radio to start off 2010 with a charity 
screening programme, raising money for “Have 
a Heart”, the charity associated with Heart FM.
While being pleased to support all these 
worthwhile causes, these activities help to 
establish and maintain the profile of the 
Cineworld brand.
Access for All
The Group has been keen to promote a “Movies 
for All” policy. Increasing accessibility results 
in local cinemas playing a fuller role in the 
communities in which they operate and 
offer larger potential audiences. On Saturday 
mornings it is possible for children to see 
films for £1 which is a price that has not been 
increased for over 13 years. Senior citizens and 
students also receive discounts at certain times. 
Free tickets are offered to helpers of wheelchair 
users registered with the Cinema Exhibitor 
Association (“CEA”).
All new cinemas are designed to exceed current 
statutory requirements to provide buildings 
which are technically advanced, yet meet high 
operational standards in terms of public service, 
safety and accessibility. They are designed to 
remove physical features which can hinder the 
use of the facility by the less physically able, so 
that certain auditoriums are as accessible as 
possible given the restrictions of any particular 
location. The opportunity is also taken to 
enhance access within cinemas when they 
undergo major refurbishment as part of an 
on-going programme of improvements. 
The business has a Disability Focus Group 
which meets regularly to review all aspects of 
access for the disabled and the improvement
in the services provided in this area which 
include regular screenings of subtitled and 
audio descriptive films, the installation of 
infrared systems in all new build cinemas 
and a programme of replacing induction loop 
systems in older cinemas during refurbishments. 
All these changes have helped to improve 
overall coverage for the hard of hearing within 
the cinemas and are linked to digital projection 
becoming more widespread. With an ongoing 
programme being implemented for the 
installation of digital projection to existing 
cinemas and full digital projection being 
installed in new cinemas, it will be possible 
to provide further improvements in our facilities 
for the hard of hearing and the partially sighted. 
By 31 December 2009, 155 screens with digital 
projections had been upgraded in this way 
(including both new cinemas opened in 2009 
which offer disabled facilities in every screen).
Film Piracy
One of the major threats to the cinema industry 
is still film piracy. Without a strong and wide 
range of films for exhibition, Cineworld’s offering 
would be much less attractive to audiences. Film 
piracy reduces or negates the returns that many 
film studios and their backers receive and which, 
if unchecked, will discourage the production of 
so many varied films for general release. All 
cinemas are exposed to the illegal and covert 
recording of recently released films which is one 
aspect of film piracy.
During 2009 with the simultaneous release of 
movies worldwide and the increase in UK first 
releases, there was an increased risk of film 
On Saturday mornings 
it is possible for children 
to see films for £1 which 
is a price that has not 
been increased for 
over 13 years. 19
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
piracy within the industry. Cineworld continued to 
work closely with the CEA, Federation Against 
Copyright Theft (“FACT”) and INFA©T Ireland in 
order to help reduce and prevent film piracy. 
In line with the operational strategy of the 
Group, each cinema management team has a 
responsibility to ensure that they do everything 
reasonably practicable to protect the intellectual 
property rights of films and alternative content 
exhibited within our cinemas. 
Increased vigilance around high-profile releases 
and the use of night vision technology has 
proved to be extremely effective this year and, 
as a result, there has been no proven camcorded 
films or forensic traces linked back to Cineworld 
in the past year and resulted in one notable 
success. During the year staff at Cineworld’s 
cinema on the Isle of Wight successfully 
disrupted the camcording of a film and reported 
it to the police which resulted in a significant 
legal test case. The offender was detained by 
police and subsequently successfully prosecuted 
under Section 6 of the Fraud Act 2006. Prior to 
this case it was not clear that such a prosecution 
could be brought under this section.
With the ever changing threat of evolving 
technologies, Cineworld continues to review and 
develop its training programme, policies and 
procedures to ensure its staff are able to help 
combat film piracy. 
Environment
Cineworld seeks to comply with all relevant 
environmental legislation and to operate in an 
environmentally sensitive manner. The Directors 
acknowledge the impact that the business has 
on the environment and is operating a number 
of processes to reduce the quantity of paper 
and packaging that is used in the business. 
Employees are encouraged to eliminate 
unnecessary travel and use other methods of 
communication in its place. Computer and other 
office equipment that has reached the end of its 
working life is resold, recycled or donated to 
local organisations, as appropriate. 
Being a multi-site business, the Group is 
conscious of its total energy consumption and 
the amount of waste materials generated and 
is actively working to reduce both energy usage 
and the quantity of waste materials produced 
that cannot be recycled. The Group continues to 
run pilot projects to evaluate possible measures 
to reduce its environmental impact. For instance 
at its multiplex in Didcot, a “grey water” system 
was installed which reused rainwater to flush the 
toilets and the results monitored. The system 
did save water, however, upon evaluation the 
life span carbon footprint of installing and 
maintaining the system was greater than what 
could be saved, therefore other systems are now 
being investigated. 
The Group is preparing for inclusion in the 
Environment Agency’s Carbon Reduction 
Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme (“CRC”) 
which will track carbon usage of the Group as of 
April 2010. In February 2009, external 
consultants were appointed to undertake energy 
efficiency surveys at a sample of locations 
focusing on electricity usage. These surveys 
identified areas for improvement in equipment 
and also operational practices. All cinemas 
in the Group undertook a review of their own 
operational procedures to ensure best practice 
was being followed to minimise energy waste.  
A benchmarking report was also produced that 
ranked cinemas electricity consumption both  
by area and by footfall. The benchmarking  
report was used to identify 20 cinemas that 
were representative of the estate where 
improvements could be made. These 20 
cinemas were provided with detailed 
consumption data in a graphical form on a 
monthly basis from May 2009 that allowed them 
to compare their electricity usage against 
previous months and also the pattern of daily 
usage by half hourly intervals. For the period May 
to November 2009, these 20 cinemas have 
saved over 3.5% in electricity usage compared to 
the same period in 2008.
The conversion to digital technology, which 
commenced in earnest during the year, will 
further reduce Cineworld’s environmental 
impact. The move away from 35mm celluloid 
prints represents a direct reduction in the use 
of raw materials for the production of these 
bulky prints, but also the amount of waste 
that is ultimately produced as these prints are 
shredded and are unable to be recycled at the 
end of their relatively short life. In addition, the 
distribution of digital content through small hard 
drives is greatly reducing the delivery costs and 
associated carbon footprint. Ultimately cable or 
satellite delivery should remove the carbon 
impact almost completely.
The conversion to digital, and 3D technology 
in particular, has brought its own challenges. 
Throughout the UK, the use of special 
disposable 3D glasses to enable this format has 
been the norm (as it was with Cineworld through 
the choice of RealD as our technology partner). 
In early 2009, Cineworld led the way in the UK 
by starting to recycle these glasses and this had 
a significant impact on the amount of wastage. 
In November 2009, it took a much more positive 
step. From 6 November, it altered its pricing 
structure from a premium for 3D films with 
“free” glasses to a smaller premium but with 
customers being required to purchase glasses 
separately. This change has significantly 
encouraged customers to retain their glasses for 
future use and develops potential opportunities 
such as the marketing of special 3D glasses 
including protective cases which, in turn, should 
help the level of re-use accelerate significantly.
Retail
Cineworld takes a proactive stance on how 
it markets food and drink in its cinemas and 
continually looks to respond to the challenges 
of marketing responsibly through offering more 
healthy options and reducing its impact on the 
environment, whilst maintaining the wide overall 
choice that customers demand. 
Following extensive trials of soya oil to replace 
traditional coconut oil in our popcorn recipes, 
The new popcorn 
bags use 39% less raw 
material which will save 
over 24 tonnes of paper 
per year. 20
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Corporate 
Responsibility
continued
Cineworld will be rolling out the recipe change to 
all cinemas in early 2010. Soya oil is significantly 
lower in saturated fat and calories. In addition, 
all our pick’n’mix is now free of artificial flavours 
and colours. These changes will not only bring 
potential health benefits, but also commercial 
benefits in the region of £80k per annum.
We continue to explore possible recyclable, 
biodegradable and compostable replacements 
for all of our packaging and have recently 
commenced the roll out of a new specification 
of popcorn bag. The new popcorn bags use 39% 
less raw material which will save over 24 tonnes 
of paper per year. We have been looking at the 
viability of switching some of our key product 
lines to UK sourced and recently moved to a new 
nacho chip, which was previously being produced 
in Spain. Our new nacho chip is manufactured 
in the UK, contains 12% less salt and we have 
reduced the packaging used by more than 8%. 
In partnership with Ben & Jerry’s, we have also 
rolled out an initiative which will save up to 78% 
of the water used through our scoop shop 
dipping wells. 
We are continually reviewing the number of 
suppliers that deliver direct to our cinemas 
with a view to minimising the number of 
vehicles and deliveries needed to operate our 
concessions stands. We are also working with 
our key supply partners to understand their 
CSR credentials and looking to develop ways of 
sharing practices and improving our own impact 
on the environment. In addition, in determining 
suppliers, consideration is given to the ethical 
policies adopted by companies particularly with 
regard to child labour and environmental issues.
Our People
Our people are the core to our success. 
Cineworld’s Human Resources strategy is to 
ensure we have the right people, in the right 
place, at the right time and these people are 
motivated, engaged and fulfilled so that they 
drive the business forward. Ultimately only 
motivated, engaged and fulfilled people will 
deliver a great cinema-going experience to 
our customers. 
As part of the strategy, Cineworld is committed 
to attracting, developing, engaging and retaining 
talent. In 2009, Cineworld introduced a web 
based recruitment management system which 
enables the Company to treat all candidates 
fairly and consistently. Once the selection 
criteria has been consistently applied, both 
suitable and unsuitable candidates are quickly 
advised of status with their applications. 
Successful candidates are then moved 
through the recruitment process effectively 
and efficiently. Recruiting managers have 
been extremely pleased with the new system, 
recognising that the calibre of candidates, 
who are better suited to their roles, has 
improved since its implementation. 
As part of the Cineworld commitment to 
development, every single employee has 
an induction programme and a number of 
training and development programmes are 
run on an annual basis. Key to an outstanding 
workforce are well trained managers. During 
2009, every General Manager attended a 
bespoke development session called “People 
Management”. This course focused on recruit, 
train, motivate and retain and explored the 
theory behind this strap-line along with a number 
of practical workshops to up-skill managers. 
Additionally, all managers attended a “Managing 
Misconduct” course in 2009 to ensure they 
had the skills and legal knowledge to manage 
their teams effectively. A further development 
programme is now underway to ensure all site 
managers have the practical skills to interview 
and train Cineworld site employees to help 
them reach their full potential.
Cineworld’s policy is to promote from within 
and it is notable that a significant proportion 
of management and supervisory positions are 
held by employees who have started within the 
organisation at lower levels. To ensure staff 
are developed to their full potential, there is 
a performance management framework. Every 
member of the senior management team and 
all head office line managers have attended 
workshops to ensure they have the skills to 
set meaningful objectives and to appraise their 
teams effectively which helps enable employees 
to achieve their potential by having open 
conversations about their performance and 
career aspirations.
The Cineworld Human Resources team ensures 
policies and procedures are up-to-date and 
legally compliant which again enables fair and 
consistent treatment of all employees. Quarterly 
“health checks” are held with every general 
manager to ensure Cineworld policies and 
practices are being adhered to and Human 
Resources coaching and guidance is provided 
where needed. 
All employees participate in the success 
of Cineworld through bonus schemes and 
Cineworld is proud that for the 15th consecutive 
year bonuses were paid to all staff in 2009. 
Cineworld is also committed to increasing the 
number of employees who hold shares in the 
Group. It has so far issued two invitations to 
staff to participate in its SAYE Share Option 
Scheme which provides employees with a further 
opportunity to share in the Group’s success.
Employees are encouraged to share their views 
and make suggestions to management in a 
number of ways including via a dedicated email 
address and good ideas are then acted upon.  
In addition, to increase employee engagement 
throughout 2010, focus groups are being held 
with a cross section of staff to take their views 
on working at Cineworld. Again, good ideas will 
be captured and incorporated into ways of 
working going forward for the benefit of all.
In 2009, Cineworld 
introduced a web 
based recruitment 
management system 
which enables the 
Company to treat all 
candidates fairly and 
consistently. 21
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Safety
The ongoing management of day-to-day health, 
safety and welfare of Cineworld’s customers, 
staff and contractors is of prime concern. 
Further steps have been taken this year to 
ensure that each cinema management team 
has the knowledge, understanding and tools 
necessary to effectively manage health and 
safety to a high standard within its site to keep 
all our staff, customers and other visitors as 
safe as possible. 
During the 2008/09 year, all cinemas were 
subject to a Fire, Food and Health and Safety 
audit and overall achieved an average mark of 
81% (with 70% being considered the acceptable 
level of performance). The process was overseen 
and verified by external consultants. Follow-up 
audits were undertaken at sites where standards 
were not found to be at the level expected 
by the Group and regular monthly compliance 
monitoring was completed for all remaining 
sites by way of reviewing monthly audit 
update submissions. 
To ensure the highest possible standards were 
achieved, the acceptable pass mark for the next 
round of Fire, Food and Health and Safety audits 
has been increased to 85%. Early indications for 
the 2009/10 year are that site standards have 
significantly improved on last year’s results with 
an average pass mark in excess of this figure. 
Unlike the audits in 2008/09, this year’s audits 
are all being undertaken on an unannounced 
basis in order to reflect the true operation of 
health and safety at each site.
A review of documented health and safety 
policies and procedures was carried out 
in the latter part of the year to ensure that they 
reflected changing legislative standards as well 
as recommended good practices. Also, following 
the completion of the IOSH Managing Safely 
course by all senior field managers in April 2009, 
further health and safety courses have been 
arranged for the Learning and Development 
team in 2010. This in-house team will then be 
responsible for cascading accredited safety 
training to site managers and other selected 
personnel alike, maintaining and further 
increasing the safety knowledge within 
the Group.
The ongoing 
management of health, 
safety and welfare of 
Cineworld’s customers, 
staff and contractors is 
of prime concern. 22
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
board of 
Directors
Stephen Wiener
Chief Executive Officer
t homas berard Mcg rath
Non‑Executive Director
David Ossian Maloney
Non‑ Executive Director
Alan David Roux
Non‑Executive Director
Anthony Herbert bloom
Chairman
Richard David Jones
Chief Financial Officer
Matthew David t ooth
Non‑ Executive Director
Peter Wodehouse Williams
Non‑Executive Director 23
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Anthony Herbert bloom
Chairman – Age 71
Anthony Bloom joined the Board in October 2004 
as Chairman and has served as Chairman of 
Cine-UK Limited since the business was founded 
in 1995. He was previously Chairman and Chief 
Executive of The Premier Group Limited (South 
Africa) and a Director of Barclays Bank (South 
Africa). Mr Bloom holds Bachelor of Commerce 
and Bachelor of Law degrees from the University 
of Witwatersrand in South Africa and a Masters of 
Law degree from Harvard Law School. He was a 
Sloan Fellow at the Stanford Graduate School of 
Business. In 2002, Mr Bloom was awarded the 
degree of Doctor of Law (H.C.) by the University of 
Witwatersrand in recognition of his contribution 
towards the establishment of a non-racial society 
in South Africa.
Richard David Jones
Chief Financial Officer – Age 48
Richard Jones was appointed to the Board 
in March 2006. Mr Jones joined Touche Ross 
in 1984 where he qualified as a chartered 
accountant and worked in the audit and corporate 
finance teams. In 1993, Mr Jones moved to the 
corporate finance division at Clark Whitehill and, 
in November 1995, he joined the team at Cine-UK 
Limited. He was appointed Chief Financial Officer 
in 2005. He has responsibility for all aspects of 
finance for the Group including accounting, 
taxation, treasury and business planning. He is 
also responsible for IT. Mr Jones holds a degree 
in mathematics from the University of Warwick.
Matthew David t ooth
Non-Executive Director – Age 34
Matthew Tooth joined the Board in August 2004. 
Mr Tooth is a Managing Director in the Private 
Equity group at The Blackstone Group 
International Limited and is responsible for 
Blackstone’s investments in the European leisure 
and consumer sectors. Prior to joining Blackstone 
in 2003, Mr Tooth worked in the M&A and 
leveraged finance teams at CSFB. Mr Tooth was 
previously a Director of Orangina-Schweppes, 
Southern Cross and Merlin Entertainments. 
Mr Tooth holds a first class honours degree 
in economics from Exeter University. 
Peter Wodehouse Williams
Non-Executive Director – Age 56
Peter Williams joined the Board in May 2006. 
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
and a member of the Audit and Nomination 
Committees. Peter joined EMI Group in February 
2010 as an Executive Director of Maltby 
Investment Limited. He is a Non-Executive 
Director of Asos plc, Silverstone Holdings Limited 
and is a member of the Design Council. From 
December 2008 to May 2009, he was an 
Executive Director of JJB Sports Plc, responsible 
for the turnaround strategy and business 
restructuring. Previously he was Chief Executive 
at Alpha Group plc and, prior to that, Chief 
Executive of Selfridges plc where he also acted 
as Chief Financial Officer for over 10 years. Mr 
Williams has also held senior finance positions in 
Freemans plc, Bandive Limited and Aiwa Limited. 
Mr Williams has a degree in mathematics from 
Bristol University and is a chartered accountant.
Stephen Mark Wiener
Chief Executive Officer – Age 58
Stephen Wiener joined the Cineworld Board in 
October 2004. He has 40 years’ experience in 
the cinema industry, starting in the US as an 
usher whilst a full time student, and rising through 
various roles culminating in Vice President for 
Cineplex Odeon in New York City. He then moved 
to Warner Bros Europe in 1991 to become 
Managing Director. In 1995, he left to found 
Cine-UK Limited and developed the business 
into a chain of 34 cinemas before it was acquired 
by Blackstone in October 2004. At the time of 
the UGC acquisition, he was appointed Chief 
Executive Officer of the combined Group. 
He is also a Director of the Cinema Exhibitors 
Association and Chairman of Digital Cinema 
Media Limited (“DCM”), the screen advertising 
company 50% owned by Cineworld.
t homas berard Mcg rath
Non-Executive Director – Age 54
Thomas McGrath joined the Board in May 2005 
and is Chairman of the Nomination Committee. 
Previously he was Chief Operating Officer of 
Viacom Entertainment Group and President 
of Time Warner International Broadcasting, 
prior to which he worked for Columbia Pictures. 
Mr McGrath is currently a Senior Managing 
Director of Crossroads Media Inc. and serves 
on the board of directors of BUG Music, 
Movie Gallery and Key Brand Entertainment. 
Mr. McGrath holds a BA and an MBA from 
Harvard University.
David Ossian Maloney
Non-Executive Director – Age 54
David Maloney joined the Board in May 2006. He 
is the Senior Independent Director, Chairman of 
the Audit Committee and a member of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committees. Mr. 
Maloney is currently the Chairman of Hoseasons 
Holdings Ltd, a Non-Executive Director of Carillion 
plc, Enterprise Inns plc, Micro Focus International 
plc and Ludorum plc and the Chairman of the 
Board of Trustees of Make A Wish Foundation 
(UK). Previously, he was a Director of Virgin Mobile 
Holdings (UK) plc and held a number of senior 
positions, including Chief Financial Officer for Le 
Meridien Hotels & Resorts, Thomson Travel Group 
plc and Avis Europe plc. Mr. Maloney holds a 
degree in Economics from Heriot Watt University, 
Edinburgh and is a fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants.
Alan David Roux
Non-Executive Director – Age 40
Alan Roux was appointed a Director in November 
2009 having acted as an Alternate Director since 
September 2008. Mr Roux is an Executive 
Director of The Blackstone Group International 
Limited where he is responsible for monitoring 
and advising Blackstone’s private equity portfolio 
of companies in Europe. Previously he was the 
Director of Operations Development at Tesco 
Stores. His earlier career was with Procter & 
Gamble and the Boston Consulting Group. 
Mr Roux is also a Director of Tragus Limited and 
United Biscuits Limited. An electronic engineer 
by training, Mr Roux holds a MBA from Columbia 
Business School. 24
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited 
financial statements for the 53 week period ended 31 December 
2009. The comparative period is for the 52 week period ended 
25 December 2008. 
Principal Activity
The Company acts as an investment holding company for a group 
of companies whose principal activity is the operation of cinemas 
in the UK and Ireland for the exhibition of films and related retail 
activity. The Directors do not expect any change in the principal 
activity during the next financial period.
Strategy and Business Review 
The strategy of the Group is set out on page 6 and a review of its 
business and operations, including the main trends and factors 
likely to affect its future development and performance, is set out 
in the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers’ Review on 
pages 8 to 15.
Key performance indicators are set out below and the principal 
risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 16 to 17. Information 
about environmental, employee and community issues is set out 
in part below and also in the Corporate Responsibility (“CR”) 
section on pages 18 to 21.
The Strategy, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers’ 
Review, Risks and Uncertainties and CR sections are incorporated 
by reference into this Directors’ Report. Certain statements in 
these sections are forward looking and so involve risk and 
uncertainty because they relate to events, and depend upon 
circumstances, that will occur in the future and therefore results 
and developments can differ materially from those anticipated. 
The forward looking statements reflect knowledge and information 
available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the 
Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-
looking statements. Nothing in this Annual Report should be 
construed as a profit forecast.
To the extent it is material, the Group’s approach to the use of 
financial instruments in respect of its financial risk management 
objectives and its exposure to price, liquidity and cash flow risk is 
set out in Note 20 to the financial statements on page 72 to 75 
and are also incorporated in this report by reference.
Key Performance Indicators (“KPI’s”)
  53 week  52 week 
  period ended  period ended 
  31 December  25 December  
  2009  2008
Admissions  49.1m  45.1m
Box Office Revenue  £230.9m  £197.5m
Average ticket price  £4.71  £4.38
Retail spend per customer  £1.72  £1.71
EBITDA  £55.7m  £53.0m
The Board of Directors and executive management receive a wide 
range of management information. The following are the principal 
measures of achievement that are reviewed on a regular basis to 
monitor the development of the Group:
Admissions
This measure is the ultimate driver of the business and primary 
indicator of business volume.
Box Office Revenue
This measure represents the principal revenue stream of the 
Group and is used generally within the cinema industry as the 
measure of market share (as reported by EDI Neilsen).
Average Ticket Price and Retail Spend per Customer
Average ticket price is calculated by dividing total net box office 
revenue by total admissions. It is a composite of the various 
pricing structures operated during the day and for different 
promotions for each cinema. Together with admissions this gives 
box office, which is the primary economic measurement for the 
industry. Retail spend per head is a measure of the value of the 
retail activity and our ability to generate other revenues directly 
from our customers. Both box office and retail measures are 
stated excluding VAT. 
EBITDA
EBITDA (as defined on Note 1 to the financial statements) serves 
as a useful proxy for cash flows generated by operations and 
of the Group’s ability to finance its capital expenditure and 
pay dividends. 
Results and Dividends
The results for the Group for the 53 week period ended 
31 December 2009 are presented under International Financial 
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the EU. The results 
for the period are set out in the Group Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income on page 41. The results for the parent 
company are drawn up under UK GAAP.
An interim dividend of 3.2p per share was paid on 2 October 
2009. The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 6.8p 
which, if approved by the shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting (“AGM”), will be paid on 7 July 2010 to shareholders on 
the register on 11 June 2010.
Financial Risk Management
The Board regularly reviews the financial requirements of the 
Group and the risks associated therewith. The Group does not 
use complicated financial instruments, and where financial 
instruments are used it is for reducing interest rate risk. The 
Group does not use derivative financial instruments for trading 
purposes. Group operations are primarily financed from retained 
earnings and bank borrowings (including an overdraft facility). In 
addition to the primary financial instruments, the Group also has 
other financial instruments such as debtors and trade creditors 
that arise directly from the Group’s operations.
The Group considers the currency risk on consolidation of the 
assets and liabilities of its Irish subsidiary, Adelphi-Carlton 
Limited, to be of low materiality and no hedging is provided. 
The Group’s trade and operations are otherwise based in the UK.
On 26 April 2007, as part of the IPO, the Group refinanced its 
bank loan and entered into a new five year facility agreement 
consisting of £135m loan and £30m revolving credit and 
overdraft facility to replace its previous facility of £246m. Half of 
the loan, an amount of £67.5m, was hedged in accordance with 
the terms of the facility agreement on a fixed rate of 5.35% whilst 
the remaining loan attracted interest at LIBOR. The whole loan 
attracted a margin of 0.95% during the year (originally 1.35%). 
The Group has taken steps to ensure that the swap is accounted 
for as a hedge and that changes in its valuation are recognised 
through reserves. Further information is provided in Note 20 to 
the financial statements.
Directors’ Report 25
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors and Directors’ Interests
Short biographical details of the Directors of the Company, whom 
held office at the end of the period under review, are given on 
pages 22 and 23. During the year, Lawrence Guffey, a Blackstone 
Director (as defined below), was replaced as a Director by Alan 
Roux, another Blackstone Director. Alan Roux had previously 
acted as Lawrence Guffey’s Alternate Director since 23 November 
2008. No compensation was paid for the loss of office on this 
change of Directors.
In accordance with the Articles of Association (the “Articles”), 
one third of the Directors are retiring by rotation at the AGM and, 
being eligible, are offering themselves for re-election. The 
Directors retiring by rotation, are David Maloney, Thomas McGrath 
and Stephen Wiener. In addition under the Articles, any Director 
appointed during the year must resign and stand for re-election 
at the next AGM and so Alan Roux will also be offering himself 
for election. Following the Board evaluation process undertaken 
in September 2009, the Board is satisfied that each Director 
standing for election continues to show the necessary 
commitment and to be an effective member of the Board 
due to their skills, expertise and business acumen.
For so long as the Blackstone Shareholders (as defined below in 
the Major Shareholder Voting Arrangements section) together hold 
(i) at least 20% of the voting rights, they are entitled to appoint 
(and remove and reappoint) two Non-Executive Directors to the 
Board (each a “Blackstone Director”), one of whom shall be the 
Deputy Chairman of the Board and (ii) at least 10% of the voting 
rights, they are entitled to appoint (and remove and reappoint) one 
Non-Executive Director. Currently The Blackstone Group has not 
elected to exercise their right to appoint a Blackstone Director as 
the Deputy Chairman of the Board, but has reserved their right to 
do so in the future.
Mr Tooth is a Managing Director at The Blackstone Group and Mr 
Roux is an Executive Director of The Blackstone Group. The 
Blackstone Shareholders are affiliates of The Blackstone Group. 
Mr Tooth and Mr Roux are the current Blackstone Directors under 
these arrangements.
Details of the Directors’ interests in the issued share capital of 
the Company at the beginning and end of the year under review 
are set out below. Details of the Directors’ remuneration and 
information on their service contracts are set out in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 38.
Details of the Directors’ interests in the ordinary shares of the 
Company arising under the Group’s Share and Option Schemes 
are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 38. 
No rights to subscribe for shares in or debentures of Group 
companies were granted to any of the Directors or their immediate 
families, or exercised by them, during the financial period.
None of the other Directors had any disclosable interest in the 
shares of Group companies and there have been no changes to 
Directors’ share interests between 31 December 2009 and the 
date of this report.
None of the Directors has a material interest in any contract of 
significance to which the parent company or a subsidiary was a 
party during the financial year, other than as disclosed above, in 
their service contracts or letters of appointment described on 
page 36 and in Note 24, related parties.
The Directors who held office at the end of the financial period had the following interests in the ordinary shares of the Company: 
   Ordinary shares held by 
   companies in which a Director 
 Ordinary shares held directly 
| ||||
 has a beneficial interest
     31 December 25 December 31 December 25 December 
Director     2009 2008 2009 2008
Anthony Bloom     – – 1,723,224
*
 1,723,224
*
Stephen Wiener     1,593,800 1,593,800 – –
Richard Jones     247,939 247,939 – –
Thomas McGrath     131,000 131,000 – –
David Maloney     10,000 10,000 – –
Peter Williams     10,000 10,000 – –
* Shares are held by a nominee for a Jersey based discretional trust, of which Mr Bloom is one of the potential beneficiaries. 26
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ Report continued
Conflicts of Interest
The Articles were amended at the 2008 AGM to permit the Board 
to consider, and if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a 
Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, 
with the interests of the Company. There is in place a formal 
system for the Board to consider authorising such conflicts 
whereby the Directors who have no interest in the matter decide 
whether to authorise the conflict and any conditions to be 
attached to such authorisations.
Share Capital and Control
The Company has only one class of share capital formed of 
ordinary shares. All shares forming part of the ordinary share 
capital have the same rights and each carries one vote. Details of 
the share capital, and changes in it over the period, are shown in 
Note 19 to the financial statements. There has been no change to 
the share capital between 31 December 2009 and the date of 
this report. 
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive Company 
reports and accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of 
the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
There are no restrictions on transfers of, or limitations on the 
holding of, ordinary shares and there is also no requirement of 
any prior approval of any transfers other than those which may be 
applicable from time to time under existing laws or regulation. No 
ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of 
the Company. There are no restrictions on voting rights attaching 
to the ordinary shares. The Company is not aware of any known 
agreements between shareholders that restrict the transfer of 
voting rights attached to ordinary shares. Details of an 
arrangement in respect of how voting rights are to be exercised 
by the largest shareholder are set out below in the Major 
Shareholder Voting Arrangements section.
The Company’s Articles set out the rules governing the 
appointment and replacement of Directors. In addition the 
Articles, together with English law, define the Board’s powers. 
Changes to the Articles must be approved by shareholders in 
accordance with the Articles themselves and legislation in force 
at the relevant time. New Articles were adopted at the Company’s 
AGM in May 2008 mainly to take account of the changes 
brought about by the implementation of certain provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006. Further amendments to the Articles will be 
proposed at the AGM this year principally to reflect the 
implementation of the final provisions of the Companies Act 
2006. Details of the proposed changes are set out in the Notice 
of AGM dispatched to shareholders with the Annual Report and 
Accounts (the “AGM circular”).
Major Shareholder Voting Arrangements
As set out under Substantial Shareholdings below, Blackstone 
Capital Partners (Cayman) IV L.P., Blackstone Capital Partners 
(Cayman) IV-A L.P. and Blackstone Family Investment Partnership 
(Cayman) IV-A L.P. (together the “Blackstone Shareholders”) 
in aggregate control the exercise of 20.09% of the rights to 
vote at general meetings of the Company. The Company and the 
Blackstone Shareholders entered into a Relationship Agreement 
dated 26 April 2007 to regulate the relationship between them. 
The Blackstone Shareholders have undertaken to exercise their 
voting powers to ensure that the Company is capable of carrying 
on its business for the benefit of shareholders of the Company as 
a whole and independently of the Blackstone Shareholders and 
have further agreed not to exercise their voting rights in favour of 
any amendment to the Memorandum and Articles of Association 
of the Company in a manner which would be contrary with the 
principle of independence of the Company. The Relationship 
Agreement will terminate if the Blackstone Shareholders and 
their affiliates collectively hold less than 10% of the voting rights 
of the Company. 
Essential Contracts and Arrangements
The Group has a number of contractual agreements with its 
suppliers in support of its business. While the loss of some of 
these arrangements may cause temporary disruption, none on 
their own are considered essential to the business of the Group.
Change of Control
There are no significant agreements which take effect, alter or 
terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company, 
except that under its current banking arrangements a change of 
control may trigger a right for lenders to require early repayment of 
all sums outstanding.
No Director or employee is contractually entitled to compensation 
for loss of office or employment as a result of a change in control; 
however, provisions in the Company’s share schemes may cause 
options or awards granted to employees to vest on a change 
of control.
Substantial Shareholdings
At 11 March 2010, the Group had been notified, pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests in the 
voting rights of the Company:
      % of total  
     Voting rights voting rights Nature of holding
Blackstone Shareholders: 
 Blackstone Capital Partners (Cayman) IV L.P.   20,993,954 14.81 Direct interest
 Blackstone Capital Partners (Cayman) IV-A L.P.   638,250 0.45 Direct interest
 Blackstone Family Investment Partnership (Cayman) IV-A L.P.  6,846,645 4.83 Direct interest
Artemis Investment Management Limited    22,535,349 15.90 Direct interest
HSBC Holdings plc     14,163,717 10.00 Direct and indirect interest
Parvus Asset Management (UK) LLP    13,999,627 9.87 See below*
Legal & General Group Plc     7,525,879 5.31 Direct and indirect interest
AXA S.A.     7,456,655 5.26 Direct and indirect interest
Rathbone Brothers PLC     7,443,449 5.25 Indirect interest
Tosca Fund Asset Management LLP    7,077,557 4.99 See below
†
* Disclosed as an equity swap being a financial instrument with similar economic effect to a Qualifying Financial Instrument. 
† Disclosed as a CFD being a financial instrument with similar economic effect to a Qualifying Financial Instrument.  27
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Issue of New Shares and Purchase of Own Shares
At the AGM held on 21 May 2009, shareholders gave authority for 
the allotment of shares up to an aggregate nominal value of up to 
£944,810 subject to certain conditions. This authority will expire 
on the earlier of the 2010 AGM and 20 August 2010. No shares 
have been issued under this authority.
Also at the AGM held on 21 May 2009, shareholders gave 
authority for the purchase of up to 21,244,054 ordinary shares in 
the Company for cancellation or placing into treasury. No shares 
have been acquired under this authority. 
The Board proposes to seek shareholder approval at the AGM to 
renew both the Company’s authority to issue new shares and its 
authority to purchase its own ordinary shares for cancellation or 
placing in treasury. Details of the proposed resolutions are set out 
in the AGM circular.
Annual General Meeting
The Notice convening the AGM, to be held at The Cineworld 
Cinema, Southside Shopping Centre, Wandsworth High Street, 
London SW18 4TF at 11.00 am on 12 May 2010, is contained in 
the AGM circular. Details of all the resolutions to be proposed are 
set out in the AGM circular.
Introduction of a New Share Option Plan 
As explained in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 34 
to 38, approval is being sought from shareholders at the AGM for 
the introduction of a new Company Share Option Plan. Further 
details are set out in the AGM circular.
Directors’ and Officers’ Insurance and Indemnities
The Company maintains insurance cover for all Directors and 
officers of Group companies against liabilities which may be 
incurred by them whilst acting as Directors and officers. As 
at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which 
the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors as permitted 
by law and by the Articles against liabilities they may incur in the 
execution of their duties as Directors of the Company.
Political and Charitable Contributions
The Group’s policy, which it has followed, is to make no donations 
to political parties. During the year, the Group made charitable 
donations of £45,686 (2008: £37,500) to a variety of local and 
national charities in the UK. In addition the Group supported over 
35 film screenings on behalf of various charities in the year and 
responded to over 1,400 requests from charities for free tickets.
Payment of Suppliers
Cineworld Group plc, which holds the investments in the Group’s 
companies, does not trade itself and does not have suppliers 
as defined by the Companies Act 2006. The Directors believe, 
however, it would be helpful to give the disclosures on a 
consolidated basis. The Group seeks the best possible terms 
from suppliers appropriate to its business and in placing orders 
gives consideration to quality, delivery, price and terms of 
payment. The Group does not follow a specific payment code but 
has a policy to pay its suppliers in accordance with the specific 
terms agreed with each supplier. The average number of days 
payments to suppliers were outstanding at 31 December 2009 
for the Group was 32 days (2008: 36 days).
Employees
The policy is to recruit, employ and develop staff on the basis of 
the suitability of their qualifications and experience, regardless of 
sex, marital status, race, nationality, age, sexual orientation or 
religion. It is Company policy to give full and fair consideration to 
applications for employment from disabled people, having regard 
to their particular abilities and aptitudes. Full consideration is 
given to continuing the employment of staff who become disabled, 
including considering them for other reasonable positions. 
The health, welfare and development of the Group’s employees 
remain a priority. With the intent of attracting, recruiting, 
developing and retaining key employees, Cineworld maintains 
a number of policies and procedures for the benefit of its 
employees, which can be accessed by employees via the Human 
Resources department and via the Human Resources manual on 
the Company intranet. Continuing education, training and 
development are important to ensure the future success of the 
Group and employee development is encouraged through 
appropriate training. The Group supports individuals who wish to 
obtain appropriate further education qualifications and 
reimburses tuition fees up to a specified level.
Regular and open communication between management and 
employees is essential for motivating the workforce. Briefings 
are held regularly to provide updates on Group business and to 
provide opportunity for questions and feedback. There is regular 
consultation with the Broadcasting Entertainment Cinematograph 
and Theatre Union (“BECTU”). The Company also maintains both 
an internet website which is freely accessible and an intranet site 
accessible to all head office employees and at all cinemas.
Corporate Governance
Details of the Group’s Corporate Governance arrangements are 
set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 29 to  
33 which together with the Directors’ Remuneration Report and 
the Directors' Responsibilities Statement form part of this report 
together with any other parts cross referenced from it.
Corporate Responsibility
Cineworld recognises its responsibilities to the communities 
in which it operates and to operate in a way that respects the 
environment and people within those communities. Further details 
on its approach to such matters are set out in the Corporate 
Responsibility section on pages 18 to 21.
Significant Events since the Year End
There were no significant events.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
auditors are unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps 
that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information. 
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc have confirmed that they are willing to continue in 
office and a resolution proposing their reappointment, at a fee to 
be agreed by the Directors, will be proposed at the AGM.
Funding and Liquidity
Information regarding the Group’s business activities, 
together with the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position is set out in the Chief Executive and 
Chief Financial Officers’ Review and the Risks and Uncertainties 
section on pages 8 to 17. The financial position of the Group, its 
cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described  28
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ Report continued
in the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers’ Review on 
pages 8 to 15. In addition Note 20 to the financial statements 
includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for 
managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; 
details of its financial instruments and hedging activities; and its 
exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
As highlighted in Note 15 to the financial statements, the Group 
meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through 
its bank facilities which consist of a £111m term loan plus £30m 
revolver which matures in 2012. The current economic conditions 
create uncertainty particularly over: (a) the level of demand for the 
Group’s products; and (b) the availability of bank finance in the 
foreseeable future.
The bank facility is subject to two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA to 
net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net finance 
charges. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of 
reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that 
the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current 
facility, including compliance with the bank facility covenants.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the annual financial statements.
By order of the Board
Richard Ray
Company Secretary
Cineworld Group plc
11 March 2010
Registered office: 
Power Road Studios 
114 Power Road 
Chiswick 
London W4 5PY
Registered: England  
No: 5212407 29
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Corporate Governance Statement
Compliance with the Combined Code
The Board is committed to ensuring that an appropriate standard 
of corporate governance is maintained throughout the Group. The 
principal governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the 
London Stock Exchange are contained in the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting 
Council in June 2008 (“the Combined Code”) and which are 
available on its website www.frc.org.uk. For the year ended 
31 December 2009, the Board considers that the Company was 
compliant with the provisions of the Combined Code except that 
the Chairman did not meet the independence criteria on his 
appointment (Code Provision A2.2). Further details are set out 
below under the heading “Directors and Directors’ Independence”, 
otherwise this report explains how the Company has complied 
with the provisions of the Combined Code. The information 
required to be disclosed by the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules (“DTR”) 7.1 and 7.2 is set out in this statement except that 
information required by DTR 7.2.6 which is set out in the 
Directors’ Report on pages 24 to 28 and is incorporated in this 
statement by reference.
The Board
The Group is ultimately controlled by the Board of Directors of 
the Company. The Board is responsible for the overall leadership 
of the Group and for determining its long-term objectives and 
commercial strategy to create and deliver strong and sustainable 
financial performance to maintain and enhance shareholder value. 
In fulfilling its role, the Board ensures that necessary financial 
and other resources are available to enable the Group’s objectives 
to be met.
The Board meets regularly six times a year and also once for a 
strategy day. The meetings follow a formal agenda which includes 
matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board. The Board 
also meets as and when necessary to discuss and approve 
specific issues and all Directors receive notice of such meetings 
and are given the opportunity to comment on the issues being 
discussed if they are unable to attend the meeting.
A schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the 
Board has been agreed and adopted. These matters include: 
setting Group strategy; approving an annual budget and medium-
term forecasts; reviewing operational and financial performance; 
approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital 
expenditure; succession planning; approving appointments to 
the Board and of the Company Secretary; and approving policies 
relating to Directors’ remuneration and contracts.
The Board is supplied on a monthly basis with detailed 
management accounts and an overview of Group financial and 
operational performance.
Directors and Directors’ Independence
The Board throughout the year has been composed of eight 
members, consisting of two Executive Directors and six Non-
Executive Directors, three of whom are independent. Under 
provision A2.2 and A3.1 of the Combined Code, Anthony Bloom, 
a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Company, was not 
considered by the Board to be independent as at the time of his 
appointment as Chairman of the Company he also served as 
chairman on the board of another company, Cine-UK Limited, 
within the Group and had held this position since its foundation in 
1995. The Board considers that, although Anthony Bloom was not 
viewed as independent on appointment, his knowledge and 
understanding of the business are such as to justify him retaining 
the role as Chairman. Alan Roux (who replaced Lawrence Guffey 
during the year) and Matthew Tooth, both Non-Executive Directors, 
are also considered by the Board not to be independent (as was 
Lawrence Guffey) by virtue of their positions at The Blackstone 
Group, with whom the Blackstone Shareholders are affiliated. 
The Blackstone Shareholders are significant shareholders in 
the Company. The names of the Directors together with their 
biographical details are set out on pages 22 and 23.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive 
Directors are set out in letters of appointment and are made 
available for inspection by any person at the Company’s registered 
office during normal business hours and will be available at the 
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”). Further details of the letters of 
appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and the service 
contracts of the Executive Directors can be found in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 38.
The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate. 
The division of responsibility between the Chairman of the Board, 
Anthony Bloom, and the Chief Executive Officer, Stephen Wiener, 
is clearly defined in writing.
The Chairman, together with the Chief Executive Officer, leads the 
Board in determination of its strategy having regard to the Group’s 
responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, employees and 
other stakeholders. The Chairman is responsible for organising the 
business of the Board ensuring its effectiveness and setting its 
agenda. The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of 
Non-Executive Directors and oversees the performance evaluation 
of the Board and he regularly discusses matters with the Non-
Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
The Chairman performs a number of external roles but the Board 
is satisfied that these are not such as to interfere with the 
performance of the Chairman’s duties to the Group. 
The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the Group on a 
day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial 
and operational performance of the Group. He holds regular 
meetings with his senior management team consisting of senior 
executives who assist him in this task.
Independent Directors and the Company Secretary
The Combined Code recommends that, in the case of smaller 
companies incorporated in England which are below the FTSE 
350, at least two non-executive members of the Board of 
Directors should be independent in character and judgement and 
free from relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, 
or could appear to affect, their judgement. 
The Board considers that David Maloney, Thomas McGrath and 
Peter Williams are all Independent Non-Executive Directors being 
independent of management and have no business relationship or 
other relationship which could interfere materially with the 
exercise of their judgement. 
David Maloney has been appointed as the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director and he, together with Peter Williams, is 
available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact 
through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer 
or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which contact 
is inappropriate. 30
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Corporate Governance Statement continued
The Independent Non-Executive Directors bring an objective view 
point and range of experience to the Company and ensure that no 
individual or group of individuals is able to dominate the Board’s 
decision making. All the Non-Executive Directors also have access 
to independent legal advice subject to consulting with the Board 
and following the agreed procedure.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and 
supporting the Chairman and the Board on corporate governance 
matters, ensuring Board procedures are followed and facilitating 
the good information flow within the Board and the Board 
appointed Committees. 
Professional Development and Performance Evaluation
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Board’s responsibilities 
include facilitating induction and professional development. 
Any new Director receives a comprehensive, formal and tailored 
induction into the Company’s operations. Appropriate training is 
provided to new Directors and is also available to other Directors 
as required.
During the year, a performance evaluation was carried out in 
respect of the Board, the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees and each individual Director including the Chairman. 
The process involved the completion of assessment 
questionnaires by each of the Directors and Committee Members. 
The results were then collated by the Company Secretary and 
a summary presented to the relevant Committee and the Board. 
The evaluation confirmed that overall the Board and Committee 
processes were working appropriately and the Directors including 
the Chairman were performing satisfactorily, however there were a 
few matters identified where the Directors felt that the time 
allocated to them needed to be increased in the future and steps 
have been and are being taken to address these concerns.
Board Committees
In accordance with best practice, the Board has appointed a 
number of Committees, as set out below, to which certain Board 
functions have been delegated. Each of these Committees 
has formal written terms of reference which clearly define their 
responsibilities. During the year, each Committee reviewed its 
own terms of reference and recommended changes to the Board 
which it adopted. The terms of reference of each of the Board’s 
three Committees are available on the website or from the 
Company Secretary.
Audit Committee
The Company’s Audit Committee comprises two Independent 
Non-Executive Directors (namely David Maloney and Peter 
Williams) and it met five times during the financial year. Both 
members of the Committee are considered by the Board to have 
recent and relevant financial experience. The Company considers 
that it complies with the Combined Code which recommends that 
the Audit Committee of a smaller company which is below the 
FTSE 350 should comprise of at least two members who should 
both be independent Non-Executive Directors, and at least one 
member should have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its 
responsibility with regard to financial reporting, external and 
internal audits and controls, including monitoring the financial 
reporting process, reviewing the Company’s annual financial 
statements, reviewing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit 
work undertaken by external auditors, advising on the appointment 
of external auditors and reviewing the effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal audit activities, internal controls and risk 
management systems. The ultimate responsibility for reviewing 
and approving the Annual Report and Accounts and half-yearly 
reports remains with the Board.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial 
Officer, other senior executives, the internal auditors and the 
external auditors may be invited to attend meetings, but are not 
members. During the period, the main activities of the Audit 
Committee were:
Monitoring the financial reporting process and reviewing the  y
half-year and annual financial statements with particular 
reference to accounting policies, together with significant 
estimates and financial reporting judgements and the 
disclosures made therein;
Reviewing the management representations made to the  y
external auditors and the Company’s procedures to ensure  
all relevant information has been disclosed;
Discussing any issues arising out of the interim review and   y
full year audit with the external auditors (in the absence of 
management where appropriate);
Reviewing the risk register and the measures implemented   y
to mitigate the principal risks facing the Group;
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal  y
audit function and the Group’s internal financial controls 
together with its broader internal controls and risk 
management systems;
Considering the reports of Grant Thornton UK LLP review   y
of specific areas of risk (following their appointment in 
November 2008 to help implement a three year internal  
audit plan to assist in ensuring ongoing compliance with  
the Combined Code); 
Making recommendations to the Board with regard to  y
continuing the appointment and remuneration of the  
external auditor; overseeing the Company’s relations with  
the external auditor and monitoring the effectiveness of the 
audit process; and
Reviewing its terms of reference and recommending changes  y
to the Board.
The Committee also considers on an ongoing basis the 
independence of the external auditors and has established 
policies to consider the appropriateness or otherwise of 
appointing the external auditors to perform non-audit services. 
As detailed on page 27 the external auditors are KPMG, who have 
provided certain non-audit services to the Company, principally 
in respect of advice on taxation and corporate finance matters. 
The Committee is satisfied that such work was best undertaken 
by KPMG and their objectivity has not been impaired by reason 
of this further work. The Committee also reviewed and continues 
to oversee the whistleblowing arrangements which enable 
employees to raise concerns about improprieties in financial 
reporting and other matters on a confidential basis.
Nomination Committee
The Company’s Nomination Committee is comprised of three 
members, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors 
(namely Thomas McGrath, David Maloney and Peter Williams) and 
it met two times during the financial year. The Company considers 
that it complies with the Combined Code, which provides that a 
majority of the members of the Nomination Committee should be 
Independent non-executive directors. Due to the importance that 
the Directors play in the success of the Group, the Chairman is 
invited to attend meetings and does so except when his own 
position is being discussed. 31
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging its 
responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board. It is 
responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board, the size, structure and composition 
of the Board, retirements and appointments of additional and 
replacement Directors and makes appropriate recommendations 
to the Board on such matters.
Remuneration Committee
The Company’s Remuneration Committee comprises two 
Non-Executive Directors (namely David Maloney and Peter 
Williams) and it met five times during the financial year. The 
Company considers that it complies with the Combined Code, 
which provides that the Remuneration Committee of a smaller 
company which is below the FTSE 350 should consist of at least 
two members who are both independent non-executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in fulfilling 
its responsibilities in relation to remuneration, including making 
recommendations to the Board on the Company’s policy on 
executive remuneration, determining the individual remuneration 
and benefits package of each of the Executive Directors and 
monitoring and approving the remuneration of senior management 
below Board level.
The Remuneration Committee appointed Watson Wyatt (now 
Towers Watson) as an external advisor in November 2008 and 
took advice from them during the year. Watson Wyatt have no 
other connection with the Group except as the actuary to the 
pension scheme of Adelphi-Carlton Limited, the Group’s operating 
company in Ireland. 
The Chief Executive Officer is consulted on the remuneration 
packages of the other senior executives and attends discussions 
by invitation except when his own position is being discussed. 
Given the essential part remuneration plays in the success of 
the Group, the Chairman is also invited to attend meetings of the 
Committee and does so except when his own remuneration is 
being considered. The Committee does not deal with the fees 
paid to the Non-Executive Directors. The report of the 
Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 34 to 38.
Re-election
Under the Company’s Articles of Association, at the AGM each 
year one third of the Directors (or if their number is not three or a 
multiple of three, the nearest number to, but not less than one 
third) must retire by rotation and being eligible may stand for 
re-election. A Director must retire (and will be counted in the one 
third to retire) if he was last appointed or re-appointed three years 
or more prior to the AGM or has served more than eight years as 
a Non-Executive Director (excluding as Chairman of the Board).
Investor Relations
The Directors value contact with the Company’s institutional and 
private investors. An Interim and Annual Report and Accounts are 
sent to all shareholders. Presentations are given to shareholders 
and analysts following the announcement of the interim results 
and the preliminary announcement of the full year results. Interim 
management statements are issued twice each year in respect of 
the first and third quarters and in addition trading updates are 
issued in early January and late June immediately before the 
Company enters into its close period leading up to the interim and 
preliminary results announcement. 
Separate announcements of all material events are made as 
necessary. In addition to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer, who have regular contact with investors over 
such matters, Anthony Bloom (the Chairman), David Maloney 
(Senior Independent Director), and Peter Williams (an Independent 
Non-Executive Director) are available to meet with shareholders 
as, and when, required. Additionally, the Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Financial Officer provide focal points for shareholders’ 
enquiries and dialogue throughout the year. The whole Board 
is kept up to date at its regular meetings with the views of 
shareholders and analysts and it receives reports on changes 
in the Company’s share register and market movements. 
Attendance at Meetings 
The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows:
       Board 
       (including Audit Remuneration Nomination 
       strategy day) Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings in year       7 5 5 2
       Attended Attended Attended Attended
Director
Anthony Bloom       7
*
 5
†
 5
†
 2
†
Lawrence Guffey
††
       6
**
 n/a n/a n/a
Stephen Wiener       7 n/a n/a n/a
Richard Jones       7 n/a n/a n/a
Thomas McGrath       6 n/a n/a 2
*
Alan Roux
††
       1 n/a n/a n/a
Matthew Tooth       7 n/a n/a n/a
David Maloney       7 5
*
 5 2
Peter Williams       6 5 5
*
 2
* Chairman of Board/Committee.
† Anthony Bloom attended these meetings by invitation.
** Number includes meeting attended by Alan Roux as Lawrence Guffey’s alternate.
††   Lawrence Guffey resigned and Alan Roux was appointed as a Director on 23 November 2009. There was only one meeting between 23 November 2009 and 
31 December 2009. 32
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Corporate Governance Statement continued
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and 
institutional investors and welcomes their participation. 
The Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit 
Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee 
are available at the AGM to answer questions, and that all 
Directors attend.
The Company’s website (www.cineworldplc.com) provides an 
overview of the business. Major Group announcements are 
available on the website and new announcements are published 
without delay. All major announcements are approved by the 
Chairman and Executive Directors and circulated to the Board 
prior to issue. The Group also has internal and external checks to 
guard against unauthorised release of information. 
Internal Controls
The Board is responsible for maintaining an effective system of 
internal control that provides reasonable assurance that the Group’s 
assets are safeguarded and that material financial errors and 
irregularities are prevented or detected with a minimum of delay.
The Group has in place internal control and risk management 
arrangements in relation to the Group’s financial reporting 
processes and the preparation of its consolidated accounts. 
The arrangements include policies and procedures to ensure 
the maintenance of records which accurately and fairly reflect 
transactions to enable the preparation of financial statements 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
or UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, as appropriate, 
with reasonable assurance.
More generally the Directors are committed to implementing 
measures to ensure that there is an ongoing review of the 
effectiveness of the internal control system with procedures to 
capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in the case 
of those categorised by the Board as significant, that procedures 
exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy 
the failings. 
The Board is satisfied that during the financial period in question 
such measures were in place throughout the Group and the 
Company fully complies with the requirements of the Combined 
Code in this regard. 
The system of internal control manages rather than eliminates 
the risks to business objectives. In pursuing these objectives, 
internal controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material loss or misstatement of the 
financial statements.
Reflecting the Board’s commitment to the ongoing development 
of the Group’s system of risk management and internal control, 
Grant Thornton UK LLP, continued its appointment during the 
year, undertaking a number of specific reviews and reporting back 
to the Committee in the process making recommendations to 
help strengthen the risk management framework and internal 
control processes within the Group. 
Under the Audit Committee’s terms of reference, it is tasked with 
reviewing the Company’s financial reporting and internal control 
procedures and to make recommendations to the Board in this 
area. Key elements of the Group’s risk management and internal 
control framework during 2009 were:
The day-to-day involvement of executive members of the Board  y
in all aspects of the business and their attendance at regular 
meetings with senior management, at which operational and 
financial performance and operational matters were reviewed. 
Financial performance was monitored and action taken 
through regular reporting to the Executive Directors and 
monthly reporting to the Board against annual budgets 
approved by the Board.
Small groups of members of the senior management team  y
met to review existing and future risks in their particular areas 
of responsibility and expertise and to confirm the current 
measures in place to mitigate those risks.
An established organisational structure with clear lines of  y
responsibility and reporting requirements. Capital investment 
and all revenue expenditure being regulated by a budgetary 
process and authorisation levels (manual and systems), with 
appraisals and post-investment and period end reviews. Policy 
manuals setting out agreed standards and control procedures 
which included human resources related policies, information 
technology and health and safety.
An established internal audit function headed by an  y
experienced internal auditor who had access to all areas of the 
cinema operations and prepared reports which were available 
to the Board and reported regularly to senior management and 
the Audit Committee.
Reports from Grant Thornton following their reviews of specific  y
areas of risk as part of their ongoing assistance with the 
Internal Audit programme. 
The external auditors providing a supplementary, independent  y
and autonomous perspective on those areas of the internal 
control system, which they assess in the course of their work. 
Their findings were reported to both the Audit Committee and 
the Board.
The Audit Committee reviewing the risk register, receiving  y
reports on risk management and internal controls and 
monitoring the overall position and reviewing actions taken to 
address areas of weakness.
A whistleblowing policy being in place ensuring that members  y
of staff who were concerned about impropriety, financial or 
otherwise, could raise such matters without fear of 
victimisation or reprisal. 33
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Accountability, Audit and Financial
The Board is responsible for the preparation of financial 
statements that present a balanced assessment of the Group’s 
financial position and prospects. Responsibility is administered 
primarily by the Audit Committee, of which the terms of reference 
are referred to above.
A comprehensive budgeting system allows managers to submit 
detailed budgets which are reviewed and amended by the 
Executive Directors prior to submission to the Board for approval.
Human Resources
The Group endeavours to appoint employees with appropriate 
skills, knowledge and experience for the roles they undertake. 
The Group has a range of policies which are aimed at retaining 
and providing incentives for key staff. Objectives are set for 
departments and employees that are derived from the Group’s 
business objectives. The Group has a clear and well-understood 
organisational structure and each employee knows his or her line 
of accountability.
Insurance
It is not practical or possible to insure against every risk to the 
fullest extent. The Group has in place an insurance programme to 
help protect it against certain insurable risks. The portfolio of 
insurance policies is kept under regular review with its insurance 
broker to ensure that the policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
activities and exposures in light of cost, and the likelihood and 
magnitude of the risks involved.
By order of the Board
Anthony Bloom
Chairman 
11 March 2010 34
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Introduction
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee 
and has been approved by the Board. It complies with Regulation 
11 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and also 
with the Combined Code. The report will be put to shareholders 
for approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting ("AGM").
The Companies Act 2006 (the "Act") requires the auditors to 
report on certain parts of the report and to state whether, in their 
opinion, those parts of the report have been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Act. The report has therefore been divided 
into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Unaudited Information
Remuneration Committee
The Company’s Remuneration Committee comprises two Non-
Executive Directors (namely David Maloney and Peter Williams) and 
both are deemed to be independent. The Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee is Peter Williams and the Secretary of 
the Committee is the Company Secretary. The Committee met five 
times in the financial period. The Committee’s terms of reference, 
which were reviewed during the year and updated, are available for 
inspection on the Company’s website (www.cineworldplc.com) or 
on request from the Company Secretary.
The Remuneration Committee monitors and recommends to the 
Board for approval the structure and level of remuneration for 
each member of the Senior Management Team (“SMT”) including 
the Executive Directors. The Committee received advice from 
Watson Wyatt (now Towers Watson) during the year in relation 
to the Company’s remuneration policy and its implementation. 
Watson Wyatt was appointed by the Remuneration Committee 
in November 2008. Watson Wyatt has no other connections with 
the Company except as the actuary to the pension scheme of 
Adelphi-Carlton Limited, the Group’s operating company in 
Ireland. The Committee also received assistance from the 
Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief 
Financial Officer and the Company Secretary, however they do 
not participate in discussions relating to the setting of their 
own remuneration.
The objective of the Group’s remuneration policies is that all 
employees, including Executive Directors, should receive 
appropriate remuneration for their performance, responsibility, 
skills and experience. Remuneration packages are designed to 
enable the Group to attract and retain key employees by ensuring 
they are remunerated appropriately and competitively and that they 
are motivated to achieve the highest level of Group performance in 
line with the best interests of shareholders. To determine the 
elements and level of remuneration appropriate for each member 
of the SMT, the Committee considers benchmark remuneration 
data for selected comparable companies and seeks to ensure that 
fixed costs are no higher than market median, that an appropriately 
significant proportion of potential pay is performance-related and 
that total pay is consistent with appropriately competitive levels of 
pay for superior performance. Currently the expected value of the 
performance related element of the Executive Directors’ packages 
is around 50% at the target performance level. The arrangements 
are reviewed on a regular basis.
Remuneration Package
Executive Directors’ remuneration currently comprises an annual 
salary, a performance-related bonus, a share-based long-term 
incentive scheme, pension contributions and other benefits. 
Following a review in late 2009, the Remuneration Committee has 
decided that, with effect from the 2011 financial year, bonus 
arrangements should be more heavily weighted towards longer 
term performance and, accordingly, it proposes to re-calibrate the 
performance related bonus to shift payouts to more stretching 
performance levels while increasing awards under the long-term 
incentive arrangements.
Annual Salary
Salaries are reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee. 
The Board approves the overall budget for employee salary 
increases and the Committee agrees the specific increases for 
the SMT. For members of the SMT below Board level, the 
Committee receives a recommendation from the Chief Executive 
Officer which it reviews and approves as appropriate. In 
determining appropriate salary levels for each Executive Director, 
the Committee considers both the nature and the status of the 
Company’s operations and the responsibilities, skills, experience 
and performance of the Executive Director. The Committee 
compares the Group’s remuneration packages for its Executive 
Directors and employees with those for directors and employees 
of similar seniority in companies whose activities are comparable 
with the Group. It also takes into account salary increases across 
the rest of the Group which for the year were generally in the 
range of 1% to 4.5%.
Performance Related Bonus
The Executive Directors and all other employees participate in a 
performance related bonus scheme. The level of bonus is based 
on overall Group performance in meeting its primary financial 
objectives in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation (“EBITDA”). The Committee ensures that challenging 
and clearly-assessable targets are set for Executive Directors.
Details of bonuses paid to Executive Directors in the year to 
31 December 2009 are included in the remuneration tables set 
out on page 37. Bonuses are awarded wholly in cash. 
Stephen Wiener is eligible for a bonus payable in the range of 0% 
to 100% of salary on achievement by the Group of 95% to 120% 
of full year budgeted EBITDA. Richard Jones is eligible for a bonus 
payable in the range of 0% to 95% of salary on achievement by 
the Group of 95% to 120% of full year budgeted EBITDA.
The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan (“PSP”)
The PSP was implemented at IPO and the first grant of awards 
was made in March 2008 after the announcement of the 
Company’s results for the financial year ended 27 December 
2007. A further grant of awards was made in March 2009 after 
the announcement of the Company’s results for the financial 
year ended 25 December 2008. Only the Executive Directors 
and members of the SMT, decided at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee, participated in each grant. Details of 
the awards to the Executive Directors are set out below. Non-
Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are not eligible to 
participate in the PSP. 35
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Under the PSP, awards of conditional shares are made that 
vest after three years subject to continued employment and
the achievement of specified performance conditions. The 
performance conditions applying to all awards granted to 
the Executive Directors in 2008 and 2009 were that:
30% of the shares under the award will vest if the average  y
annual growth in earnings per share (“EPS”)* (calculated by 
comparing the EPS for the last financial year prior to the date 
of grant and the EPS for the financial year ending three years 
later) is not less than 3.2%.
100% of the shares under the award will vest if the average  y
annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the 
last financial year prior to the date of grant and the EPS for the 
financial year ending three years later) is at least 9.2%.
Where the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by  y
comparing the EPS for the last financial year prior to the date 
of grant and the EPS for the financial year ending three years 
later) is between the two limits above, the award shall vest on 
a straight-line basis between 30% and 100%. 
*  EPS for the 2008 grant is defined as the normalised undiluted earnings per share 
excluding any deferred tax charge relating to tax assets in existence on listing and 
exceptional items and for the 2009 grant is defined as the adjusted pro forma 
diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the financial statements. 
Total Shareholder Return has been considered as an alternative 
or additional performance measure, but difficulties in identifying 
appropriate comparator companies has resulted in the 
Committee deciding to use EPS as the sole performance 
measure. The Remuneration Committee will review the 
performance conditions for future grants regularly to ensure they 
are appropriate for the Company and the prevailing internal and 
external expectations. The conditions may be varied in 
exceptional circumstances following the grant of an award so as 
to achieve their original purpose, but not so as to make their 
achievement any more or less difficult to satisfy.
The maximum number of shares subject to an award to an 
individual in any financial year is 100% of annual base salary as 
at the award date, unless the Remuneration Committee decides 
that exceptional circumstances exist in relation to the recruitment 
or retention of an employee, in which case the limit is 150% of 
annual base salary. On vesting, participants will also receive 
additional shares or a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that 
would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend 
record dates occurring between grant and vesting.
Awards under the PSP can be satisfied using either new issue 
shares or shares purchased in the market in conjunction with the 
Cineworld Group Employee Benefit Trust (“the Trust”), established 
by the Company on 24 March 2006 with independent trustees 
based in Jersey. However, if new issue shares are used, the PSP 
is subject to the following limits:
In any 10 year period, the number of shares which may be  y
issued under the PSP and under any other executive share 
scheme established by the Company may not exceed 5% of 
the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from time 
to time
In any 10 year period, the number of shares which may be  y
issued under the PSP and under any employees’ share 
scheme established by the Company may not exceed 10%  
of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from  
time to time.
A share retention policy exists under which each Executive 
Director will be expected to retain 50% of all shares that he 
acquires under his PSP awards or following the exercise of 
options, after allowing for sales of shares to pay tax, until such 
time as he has built up a shareholding equal in value to 100%
of his salary.
The Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme (the 
“Sharesave Scheme”)
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Sharesave 
Scheme, which is an HMRC approved scheme open to all 
employees of nominated companies who have a minimum 
of three month’s service at the date of invitation. Under the 
Sharesave Scheme, employees are eligible to acquire shares in 
the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the market value at 
grant if they agree to enter into a savings contract for a three-year 
period. Consistent with the relevant legislation, no performance 
conditions apply. No options were granted under the Sharesave 
Scheme during the year as no fresh invitation was made to 
eligible participants. Details of the interests of the Executive 
Directors in the Sharesave Scheme are set out below.
Pension Contributions 
All employees, including Executive Directors, are invited to 
participate in a Group Personal Pension Plan. All the major 
schemes operated by the Group are money purchase in nature 
and have no defined benefits. Two defined benefit schemes are 
operated in the UK and in Ireland and both have been closed to 
new members for a number of years. Details of these schemes 
are shown in Note 17 of the financial statements. The Group has 
no obligation to the pension scheme beyond the payment of 
contributions. The Company contributions for the Executive 
Directors are 20% of salary. Bonuses are not pensionable.
Other Benefits
Benefits in kind for Executive Directors include the provision of 
a company car or car allowance, fuel, life insurance, permanent 
health insurance and private medical cover and, in the case of 
the Chief Executive Officer, a driver as well.
Introduction of a new Company Share Option Plan (“CSOP”)
Shareholders are being asked to approve the introduction 
of a CSOP at the AGM. The CSOP is being introduced not with 
the intention of increasing the overall potential awards of the 
Executive Directors or any other member of the SMT, but to 
provide the Remuneration Committee with flexibility to award 
long-term incentives in different forms and to pass benefits 
in a more tax efficient manner to recipients. Full details of the 
proposal are set out in the AGM circular. 36
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Performance Graph 
The graph below compares the Company’s Total Shareholder Return performance against the FTSE 250 and FTSE All Share Travel and 
Leisure indices since IPO in April 2007*. The Remuneration Committee believes these indices to be the most appropriate comparators 
because the Group looks to benchmark itself against smaller companies within the FTSE 250 and is a member of the FTSE All Share 
Travel and Leisure sector.
* Rebased to 170p 
The shares of the Company commenced trading on the London Stock Exchange on 26 April 2007 at an offer price of 170p per share. 
Admission became effective and unconditional dealings in the shares commenced on the London Stock Exchange on 2 May 2007. 
The mid-market closing price on 31 December 2009 was 150p and the range during the period 26 December 2008 to 31 December 
2009 was 101.5p to 179p.
Executive Directors’ Contracts
The Group’s policy in entering into service contracts with Executive Directors is to enable the recruitment of high-quality executives and 
to obtain protection from their sudden departure whether or not to competitor companies. In addition, service contracts are an important 
element in maintaining maximum protection for the Group’s intellectual property rights and other commercially sensitive information. 
The details of the Executive Directors’ contracts are summarised in the table below: 
Director Date of contract Notice period from company Notice period from employee
Stephen Wiener 23 April 2007 12 months 12 months
Richard Jones 23 April 2007 12 months 6 months
The Company may in lieu of giving notice terminate an Executive Director’s service contract by making a payment equivalent to 95% of 
base salary and contractual benefits for the notice period. In this event the Director would not be entitled to any bonus for his notice 
period but would be eligible for a pro rata bonus for the period up to the date of the termination of his contract. 
The Company’s policy is to endeavour to minimise any payment on early termination by insisting on mitigation of any loss where possible.
Non-Executive Directors’ Letters of Appointment
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, do not have service contracts with the Company. The terms and conditions of 
their appointment as Non-Executive Directors are set out in letters of appointment, which are subject to the provisions of the Articles 
of Association.
Non-Executive Directors receive fees for services as members of the Board and its Committees. The level of fees is determined by the 
Board (except in the case of the Chairman whose level of fee is determined by the Remuneration Committee) after taking into account 
appropriate advice, and no Director participates in discussions relating to the setting of his own remuneration. Non-Executive Directors 
do not participate in the Group’s share incentives or otherwise receive performance-related pay. Where a Non-Executive Director does 
not serve until the end of his term, the policy is to pay the fees due pro rata to the date of cessation.
0
50
100
150
200
250
26/04/2007 13/09/2007 31/01/2008 19/06/2008 06/11/2008 26/03/2009 13/08/2009 31/12/2009
Cineworld FTSE all share travel & leisure FTSE 250 37
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
The appointment of each Non-Executive Director is terminable on the notice period stated below, unless their appointment is 
terminated by a resolution of the shareholders in general meeting or if they fail to be re-elected by shareholders in general meeting, in 
which case no notice is necessary.
Their appointments were made as follows:
Director       Date of appointment Notice period
Anthony Bloom       7 October 2004 1 month
David Maloney       22 May 2006 1 month
Thomas McGrath       16 May 2005 1 month
Alan Roux       23 November 2009 1 month
Matthew Tooth       24 August 2004 1 month
Peter Williams       22 May 2006 1 month
Audited Information
Aggregated Directors’ Remuneration
The total amounts for Directors’ remuneration were as follows:
Emoluments 
(i) Executive
           2009 2008 
         2009 2008 Total Total 
         Company Company including including 
         contributions contributions contributions contributions 
 2009 2008       to money to money to money to money 
 Fees/ Fees/ 2009 2008     purchase purchase purchase purchase 
 Basic Basic Performance Performance 2009 2008 2009 2008 pension pension pension pension 
 salary salary bonus bonus Benefits Benefits Total Total schemes schemes scheme scheme
Name of Director £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
†
 £’000
†
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Stephen Wiener 400
*
 380 341 304 37 33 778 717 80 76 858 793
Richard Jones 235
*
 223 189 167 18 16 442 406 47 45 489 451
 635 603 530 471 55 49 1220 1123 127 121 1347 1244
* With effect from 1 July 2009, Stephen Wiener and Richard Jones basic salaries were increased by 5% and 4.5% respectively. 
†  Other benefits include a company car or car allowance, fuel, life assurance, permanent health insurance and private medical cover and in the case of Stephen Wiener a 
driver as well.
(ii) Non-Executive
         2009 2008 
         Fees/Basic Fees/Basic 
Name of Director         salary £’000 salary £’000
Anthony Bloom         100 77
Lawrence Guffey
*
         30 30
David Maloney         48 45
Thomas McGrath         38 35
Alan Roux
*
         3 –
Matthew Tooth
*
         33 30
Peter Williams         48 45
         300 262
*   Lawrence Guffey, Alan Roux and Matthew Tooth are Directors appointed by The Blackstone Group and their respective Director’s fees are payable to The Blackstone Group. 
Alan Roux was appointed a Director on 23 November 2009 in place of Lawrence Guffey.
During the year, there was no increase in the fees paid to the Chairman or the Non-Executive Directors. The basic fee for a Non-
Executive Director was £33,000 p.a. An additional fee of £5,000 p.a is paid for being a member of a particular committee.
The Non-Executive Directors do not receive any share options, bonuses or other performance related payments nor do they receive any 
pension entitlement or other benefits. Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
38
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
38
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ Share and Share Option Scheme Interests
Details of share options of those Directors who served during the period are as follows:
 
(a) Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme
  At Granted Exercised Lapsed At  Earliest 
  25 Dec during during during 31 Dec Exercise date of Expiry 
Name of Director  2008 year year year 2009 price exercise date
Stephen Wiener  10,322 – – – 10,322 £0.93 01/12/2011 01/05/12
Richard Jones  10,322 – – – 10,322 £0.93 01/12/2011 01/05/12
(b) Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan
        Market 
  At Awarded Vested Lapsed At  value at 
  25 Dec during during during 31 Dec Exercise date of Vesting
Name of Director  2008 year year year 2009 price vesting Date
**
Stephen Wiener  142,308
*
 – – – 142,308 £nil – 20/03/11
  – 152,343
†
 – – 152,343 £nil – 26/03/12
Richard Jones  82,692
*
 – – – 82,692 £nil – 20/03/11
  – 89,843
†
 – – 89,843 £nil – 26/03/12
*  Mid-market price of a Cineworld Group plc share the day before grant was £1.30.
†  Mid-market price of a Cineworld Group plc share the day before grant was £1.28.
**  Subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions details of which are set on page 35.
By order of the Board
Peter Williams
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
11 March 2009 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law 
they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law 
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and 
parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; y
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; y
for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; y
for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any  y
material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements; and
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent  y
company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to 
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps 
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
The Directors confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole; and
2. the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers’ Review together with the Risks and Uncertainties section, which are incorporated in 
the Directors’ Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
On behalf of the Board
Richard Jones
Chief Financial Officer 
11 March 2010
39
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements We have audited the financial statements of Cineworld Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 set out on pages 41 to 82. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRSs") as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in 
an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the company and the company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 39, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s ("APB’s") Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements 
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/UKP. 
Opinion on Financial Statements 
In our opinion:
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December  y
2009 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; y
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted  y
Accounting Practice;
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the  y
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act  y
2006; 
the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with  y
the financial statements; and
the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 29 to 33 with respect to internal control and risk  y
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the 
financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to Report by Exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received  y
from branches not visited by us; or
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement  y
with the accounting records and returns; or
certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or y
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or y
a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company. y
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
the Directors’ statement, set out on pages 27 to 28, in relation to going concern; and y
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 29 to 33 relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions  y
of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Mark Summerfield (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
PO Box 695
8 Salisbury Square
London
EC4Y 8BB
11 March 2010
40
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the Members of Cineworld Group plc       53 week 52 week 
      period ended period ended  
      31 December 25 December  
      2009  2008 
     Note £m £m
Revenue      333.4 298.9
Cost of sales      (253.8) (224.6)
Gross profit      79.6 74.3
Other operating income     3 0.7 0.6
Administrative expenses      (40.7) (36.8)
Operating profit     4 39.6 38.1
Analysed between:
Operating profit before depreciation and amortisation, onerous lease and  
 other non-recurring or non-cash property charges, transaction and reorganisation costs  55.7 53.0
– Depreciation and amortisation     4 (15.3) (14.0)
– Onerous leases and other non-recurring or non-cash property charges   4 (0.4) (1.1)
– Transaction and reorganisation costs     4 (0.4) 0.2
Finance income     7 1.2 1.9
Finance expenses     7 (9.9) (12.5)
Net finance costs      (8.7) (10.6)
Share of (loss)/profit of jointly controlled entities using equity accounting method, net of tax  (0.1) 0.1
Profit on ordinary activities before tax      30.8 27.6
Tax charge on profit on ordinary activities    8 (10.4) (7.4)
Profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company    20.4 20.2
Other comprehensive income
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedge     0.3 (4.0)
Foreign exchange translation (loss)/gain      (0.5) 1.7
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension schemes    0.8 (1.5)
Income tax on other comprehensive income     (0.3) 1.5
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of income tax    0.3 (2.3)
Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company  20.7 17.9
Basic and diluted earnings per share     5 14.4p 14.3p
The Notes on pages 45 to 76 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
41
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the Period Ended 31 December 2009   31 December  25 December 
   2009 
|
  2008
      Note £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment     9  114.6  112.6
Goodwill      10  216.1  216.1
Intangible assets      10  0.6  0.7
Investments in equity-accounted investee    11  0.9  1.0
Other receivables      14  1.4  0.9
Deferred tax assets      12  16.6  18.6
Total non-current assets        350.2  349.9
Current assets
Inventories      13 1.9  1.7
Trade and other receivables      14 19.9  21.9
Cash and cash equivalents       16.9  12.8
Total current assets        38.7  36.4
Total assets        388.9  386.3
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans, borrowings and other financial liabilities   15 (11.9)  (10.6)
Trade and other payables      16 (46.5)  (46.4)
Current taxes payable       (8.9)  (5.3)
Provisions      18 (1.2)  (2.1)
Total current liabilities        (68.5)  (64.4)
Non-current liabilities 
Interest-bearing loans, borrowings and other financial liabilities   15 (109.3)  (119.6)
Other payables      16 (53.5)  (50.5)
Employee benefits      17 (0.7)  (2.6)
Provisions      18 (10.6)  (10.4)
Deferred tax liabilities      12 (1.8)  (1.9)
Total non-current liabilities        (175.9)  (185.0)
Total liabilities        (244.4)  (249.4)
Net assets        144.5  136.9
Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 
Share capital      19  1.4  1.4
Share premium        171.4  171.4
Translation reserves      19  1.6  2.1
Hedging reserves      19  (3.9)  (4.2)
Retained deficit        (26.0)  (33.8)
Total equity        144.5  136.9
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 11 March 2010 and were signed on its behalf by:
Stephen Wiener    Richard Jones
Director     Director
42
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
at 31 December 2009      Issued  Share Translation Hedging Retained 
     capital premium reserve reserve deficit Total 
      £m £m  £m £m  £m  £m
Balance at 27 December 2007     1.4  171.4  0.4  (0.2)  (40.4)  132.6
Profit for the period     – – – –  20.2  20.2
Other comprehensive income
Actuarial loss on defined benefit scheme    – – – –  (1.5) (1.5)
Tax recognised on income and expenses recognised directly  
 in equity     – – – –  1.5  1.5
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedge   – – –  (4.0)  – (4.0)
Retranslation of foreign denominated subsidiaries   – –  1.7  –  –  1.7
Contributions by and distributions to owners       
Dividends paid in period      –  –  –  –  (13.7) (13.7) 
Movements due to share-based compensation    –  –  –  –  0.1  0.1
Balance at 25 December 2008    1.4 171.4  2.1 (4.2) (33.8) 136.9
Profit for the period     – –  – – 20.4 20.4
Other comprehensive income
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedge   – –  – 0.3  – 0.3
Retranslation of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries  –  – (0.5) –  – (0.5)
Actuarial gain on defined benefit scheme    –  –  – – 0.8  0.8
Tax recognised on income and expenses recognised directly in equity –  –  – –  (0.3) (0.3)
Contributions by and distributions to owners
Dividends paid in period     –  –  – –  (13.5) (13.5)
Movements due to share-based compensation   –  –  – –  0.4  0.4
Balance at 31 December 2009    1.4 171.4 1.6 (3.9) (26.0) 144.5
43
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the Period Ended 31 December 2009       53 week 52 week 
      period ended period ended  
      31 December 25 December  
      2009  2008 
     Note £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities 
Profit for the period      20.4 20.2
 Adjustments for:
  Financial income     7 (1.2) (1.9)
  Financial expense     7 9.9 12.5
  Taxation     8 10.4 7.4
  Share of loss/(profit) of equity-accounted investee     0.1 (0.1)
Operating profit      39.6 38.1
 Depreciation and amortisation     4 15.3 14.0
 Non-cash property charges     4 0.4 1.1
 Surplus of pension contributions over current service cost   22 (1.6) (1.6)
 Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables     1.5 (3.3)
 Increase in inventories      (0.2) (0.2)
 Increase in trade and other payables      2.1 3.3
 Decrease in provisions and employee benefit obligations    (2.5) (3.0)
Cash generated from operations      54.6 48.4
 Tax paid      (4.8) (2.8)
Net cash flows from operating activities      49.8 45.6
Cash flows from investing activities 
 Interest received      0.1 0.7
 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment     (15.6) (10.9)
 Investment in jointly controlled entity      – (0.3)
 Loan to jointly controlled entity     22 – (0.5)
Net cash flows from investing activities      (15.5) (11.0)
Cash flows from financing activities 
 Dividends paid to shareholders      (13.5) (13.7)
 Interest paid      (7.2) (9.4)
 Repayment of bank loans      (9.0) (9.0)
 Payment of finance lease liabilities      (0.5) (0.5)
Net cash from financing activities      (30.2) (32.6)
 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents     4.1 2.0
 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held     – 0.4
 Cash and cash equivalents at start of period     12.8 10.4
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period     16.9 12.8
44
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
for the Period Ended 31 December 2009 1 Accounting Policies
Basis of Preparation
Cineworld Group plc (“the Company”) is a company incorporated in the UK. 
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as “the Group”) and equity 
account the Group’s interest in jointly controlled entities. The parent company financial statements present information about the 
Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the EU ("Adopted IFRSs"). The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in 
accordance with UK GAAP; these are presented on pages 77 to 82.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements, 
except as described on page 51.
Judgements made by the Directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial 
statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next financial period are set out below.
Information regarding the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position is set out in the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers’ Review and the Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 8 to 17. 
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief Executive and 
Chief Financial Officers’ Review on pages 8 to 15. In addition Note 20 to the financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments and 
hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
As highlighted in Note 15 to the financial statements, the Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its bank 
facilities which consist of a £111m term loan plus £30m revolver which matures in 2012. The current economic conditions create 
uncertainty particularly over: (a) the level of demand for the Group’s products; and (b) the availability of bank finance in the  
foreseeable future.
The bank facility is subject to two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net finance 
charges. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the 
Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facility, including compliance with the bank facility covenants.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual financial statements.
Measurement Convention
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair 
value: derivative financial instruments and financial instruments classified as fair value through the income statement or as available-
for-sale.
Basis of Consolidation
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the 
financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that 
are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The financial information of subsidiaries is included in the consolidated 
financial information from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Jointly Controlled Entities (Equity Accounted Investees)
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement and 
requiring the venturers’ unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions. Jointly controlled entities are accounted for 
using the equity method (equity accounted investees) and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s investment includes goodwill 
identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share 
of the total recognised income and expense and equity movements of equity accounted investees, from the date that joint control 
commences until the date that joint control ceases. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted 
investee, the Group’s carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the 
Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an investee.
Transactions Eliminated on Consolidation 
Intra-Group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are eliminated 
in preparing the consolidated financial statements. 
45
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 1 Accounting Policies continued
Use of non-GAAP profit and loss measures
The Group believes that along with operating profit, the following measures:
EBITDA y
Adjusted earnings y
Net debt y
provide additional guidance to the statutory measures of the performance of the business during the financial period. 
EBITDA comprises of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, onerous lease and other non-recurring or non-cash 
property charges, transaction and reorganisation costs. Items are included within non-recurring if they are regarded as being material 
and unlikely to recur in future periods.
Adjusted earnings comprises profit after tax adjusted for certain non-recurring and non-cash items as set out in Note 5.
Net debt represents net borrowings including finance leases and financial liabilities offset by cash.
Foreign Currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that 
date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities 
that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange 
rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at 
foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average 
rate for the period where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations after 23 August 2004 (the date of incorporation) are taken 
directly to the translation reserve. They are released into the income statement upon disposal.
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging
Cash Flow Hedges and Interest Swap Policy
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately 
in the income statement except where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends 
on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance 
sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties. The fair value of 
forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a 
highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly 
in the hedging reserve. Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
For cash flow hedges, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the 
same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but 
the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised 
in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the 
cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income immediately.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of 
property, plant and equipment.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance 
leases. Where land and buildings are held under finance leases the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from 
that of the buildings. Leased assets acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and 
the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
Other leases are operating leases. These leased assets are not recognised in the Group’s balance sheet.
46
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 1 Accounting Policies continued
Depreciation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income to write assets down to their residual values on a straight-line 
basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment. The estimated useful lives are 
as follows:
Land and buildings: short leasehold properties including leasehold improvements 30 years or life of lease if shorter y
Plant and machinery       3 to 10 years y
Fixtures and fittings       4 to 10 years y
No depreciation is provided on assets held for sale or on assets in the course of construction. 
Depreciation methods, residual values and the useful lives of all assets are re-assessed annually.
In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets, the Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of qualifying assets as part of the cost of that asset. Previously the Group recognised all borrowing costs as 
an expense in the period in which they were incurred. The Group has capitalised borrowing costs with respect to the construction of 
new sites. IAS 23 Revised was adopted for the first time in the period and in accordance with the transitional provisions of the 
standard, comparative figures have not been restated.
Intangible Assets and Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method. Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition 
of subsidiaries. In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since incorporation, goodwill represents the difference between 
the cost of the acquisition and the Group’s interest in the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired. Identifiable intangibles are 
those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are separable.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not amortised 
but is tested annually for impairment.
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights 
are separable.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless 
such lives are indefinite. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at each 
balance sheet date. Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. The estimated useful lives are 
as follows:
 Brands – 10 years y
Trade and Other Receivables
Trade and other receivables were initially measured on the basis of their fair value. Subsequently they are carried at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories is based on the First-In, First-Out (FIFO) 
principle. Cost comprises expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition, 
and net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated selling costs.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an 
integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the 
statement of cash flows.
Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets other than inventories and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date 
to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. 
For goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite useful economic life, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance 
sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable 
amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill 
allocated to cash-generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis. A 
cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash 
inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
47
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 1 Accounting Policies continued
Calculation of Recoverable Amount
The recoverable amount is the greater of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the 
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent 
cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Reversals of Impairment
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment is reversed when there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist as a 
result of a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount, including a change in fair value less costs to sell.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would 
have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Interest-Bearing Borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in 
the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Employee Benefits
Defined Contribution Pension Plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement 
as incurred.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount 
of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to 
determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets (at bid price) is deducted. The liability discount rate is the yield at the 
balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Group’s obligations. The 
calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the asset recognised is limited to the present value of benefits available in the 
form of any future refunds from the plan, reductions in future contributions to the plan or settlement of the plan and takes into account 
the adverse effect of any minimum funding requirements.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised 
as an expense in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits 
become vested. To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the statement of 
comprehensive income.
The increase in the present value of the liabilities expected to arise from the employees’ services in the accounting period is charged 
to the income statement. The expected return on the schemes’ assets and the interest on the present value of the schemes’ liabilities 
during the accounting period are shown as finance income and finance expense respectively. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised 
immediately in equity.
Share‑Based Payment Transactions
The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of options granted is 
recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date using the 
Black-Scholes Model and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The 
amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is due 
only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Share appreciation rights are also granted by the Company to employees. The fair value of the amount payable to the employee is 
recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities. The fair value is initially measured at grant date and spread over 
the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment. The fair value of the share appreciation rights is 
measured taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. The liability is remeasured at each 
balance sheet date and at settlement date and any changes in fair value in the income statement.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, 
provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments 
of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
48
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 1 Accounting Policies continued
Own shares held by Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”)
Transactions of the Group sponsored EBT are included in the Group financial information. In particular, the trust’s purchase of shares 
in the Company are debited directly to equity.
Revenue
Revenue represents the total amount receivable for goods sold, excluding sales related taxes and intra-Group transactions. All the 
Group’s revenue is received from the sale of goods. 
Box office revenue is recognised on the date of the showing of the film it relates to. y
Concessions revenue is recognised at point of sale. y
Advertising revenue is recognised when the advertisement is shown.  y
Unlimited card revenue is received annually or monthly in advance. When revenue from the Unlimited card is received annually in  y
advance it is recognised on a straight-line basis over the year. Monthly Unlimited card revenue is recognised in the period to which 
it relates.
Other revenue is recognised in the period to which it relates. y
Expenses
Operating Lease Payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the 
term of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense. 
Where the Group has operating leases that contain minimum guaranteed rental uplifts over the life of the lease, the Group recognises 
the guaranteed minimum lease payment on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Finance Lease Payments
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance 
charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance 
of the liability.
Net Financing Costs
Net financing costs comprise interest payable, amortisation of financing costs, unwind of discount on onerous lease provisions, 
finance lease interest, net gain/loss on remeasurement of interest rate swaps, interest receivable on funds invested, foreign exchange 
gains and losses and finance costs for defined benefit pension schemes.
Sale and Leaseback
Where the Group enters into a sale and leaseback transaction whereby the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets concerned 
have not been substantially transferred to the lessor, any excess of sales proceeds over the previous carrying amount are deferred and 
recognised in the income statement over the lease term. At the date of the transaction the assets and the associated finance lease 
liabilities on the Group’s balance sheet are stated at the lower of fair value of the leased assets and the present value of the minimum 
lease payments. 
Where the Group enters into a sale and leaseback transaction whereby the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets concerned 
have been substantially transferred to the lessor, any excess of sales proceeds over the previous carrying amount is recognised in 
the income statement on completion of the transaction, when the sale and subsequent lease back has been completed at fair value. 
Taxation
Tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method, providing temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not 
provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill; the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable 
profit other than in a business combination; and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably 
not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or 
settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the 
asset can be utilised.
49
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 1 Accounting Policies continued
Operating Segments
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur 
expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. An operating 
segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly by the Board of Directors to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the 
segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available. IFRS 8 was adopted for the first time in 
the current period.
Significant Accounting Judgements and Estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the 
application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates.
Estimates
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
In applying the Group’s accounting policies described above the Directors have identified that the following areas are the key estimates 
that have a significant impact on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Onerous Leases
Provision is made for onerous leases where it is considered that the unavoidable costs of the lease obligations are in excess of the 
economic benefits expected to be received from operating it. The unavoidable costs of the lease reflect the least net cost of exiting 
from the contract and are measured as the lower of the net cost of continuing to operating the lease and any penalties or other costs 
from exiting it.
When calculating the provision for onerous leases the Group is required to make certain assumptions about the future cash flows to be 
generated from that cinema site. It is also required to discount these cash flows using an appropriate discount rate. The resulting 
provision is therefore very sensitive to these assumptions however, the Directors consider that the assumptions made represent their 
best estimate of the future cash flows generated by onerous cinema sites, and that the discount rate used is appropriate given the 
risks associated with these cash flows.
Impairment of Goodwill
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis. This requires an estimate of the value in use of the 
cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the 
expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit that holds the goodwill at a determined discount rate to calculate the present 
value of those cash flows. 
Forecasting expected cash flows, and selecting an appropriate discount rate inherently requires estimation, however management has 
also applied sensitivity analysis to the estimates which does not affect the outcome (see Note 10).
Impairment of Tangible Fixed Assets
The Group determines whether tangible fixed assets are impaired when indicators of impairments exist. This requires an estimate of 
the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the tangible fixed assets are allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the 
Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash-generating units that holds the tangible fixed assets at a 
determined discount rate to calculate the present value of those cash flows. 
When reviewing fixed assets for impairment, the Group is required to make certain assumptions about the future cash flows to be 
generated from the individual cinema sites. It is also required to discount these cash flows using an appropriate discount rate. The 
resulting calculation is therefore very sensitive to these assumptions however, the Directors consider that the assumptions made 
represent their best estimate of the future cash flows generated by the cinema sites, and that the discount rate used is appropriate 
given the risks associated with these cash flows.
Employee Post Retirement Benefit Obligations
The Group has two defined benefit pension plans. The obligations under these plans are recognised in the balance sheet and 
represent the present value of the obligations calculated by independent actuaries, with input from management. These actuarial 
valuations include assumptions such as discount rates, return on assets, salary progression and mortality rates. These assumptions 
vary from time to time according to prevailing economic and social conditions. Details of the assumptions used are provided in Note 17.
Management consider that the assumptions used are the most appropriate but recognise that the resulting pension liability is very 
sensitive to these assumptions.
Deferred Tax Assets
The Group recognises deferred tax assets for temporary differences arising at the balance sheet date. The Group applies estimates 
when calculating the carrying value of these assets and considering whether future taxable profits are sufficient to ensure 
their recoverability. 
50
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 1 Accounting Policies continued
Judgements
In addition, the Directors are required to make certain judgements when applying the Group’s accounting policies described above. 
The key judgements are:
Finance and Operating Leases
When the Group enters into a new lease it is required to consider whether it bears substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset. 
The Group considers the requirements of IAS 17 "Leases" when determining whether it has an operating or finance lease, and in most 
cases the outcome is clear. 
Hedging Arrangements
The Group enters into interest rate swaps to fix a portion of its exposure to variable interest rates on its loan arrangements. In order to 
apply the hedge accounting provisions of IAS 39 "Financial Instruments", the Group must consider the effectiveness of its hedging 
arrangements when deciding whether they can hedge account.
New Standards and Interpretations
With effect from 26 December 2008 the Group adopted the following pronouncements:
Amendment to IAS 23 “Borrowing Costs”, which requires capitalisation of borrowing costs that relate to assets that take a substantial 
period of time to get ready for use or sale. As a result, interest has been capitalised on certain assets in development in the period, 
see Note 9.
IFRIC 14 “IAS 19 – The limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction”, which clarifies when 
refunds or reductions in future contributions in relation to defined benefit assets should be regarded as available and provides 
guidance on the impact of the minimum funding requirements on such assets. There has been no effect on the consolidated financial 
statements from the adoption of this standard.
IAS 1 (Revised) “Presentation of financial statements”; As a result, the primary statements have been renamed in accordance with the 
standard, and the Group has elected to present single consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
IFRS 7 (Amendment) “Improving disclosures on financial instruments”; The effect of adopting the revision to IFRS 7 is to provide 
additional disclosures around the fair value hierarchy of financial instruments.
IFRS 8 “Operating Segments”; The Group has presented information on its operating segments in accordance with the requirements of 
this standard and IFRS 8 (Amendment) “Operating Segments – Disclosure of information about segment assets”. As the Group only 
has one operating segment, there is no effect on the consolidated financial statements from the adoption of this standard.
The revised IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” (effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009), which contains 
new requirements for how business combinations are recorded in the financial statements. This accounting standard has been 
early adopted.
IFRS and interpretations with effective dates after 31 December 2009 relevant to the Group will be implemented in the financial year 
where the standards become effective. The Group has not early adopted the following pronouncements that are not yet effective:
The IASB has issued the following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations that will be effective for the Group as from 
1 January 2010 or after. The Group does not expect any significant impact of these amendments on its consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 2 (Amendment) “Share-based Payment – Scope of IFRS 2 and revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations”; y
IFRS 5 (Amendment) “Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations – Disclosures of non-current assets (or  y
disposal groups) classified as held”;
IAS 1 (Amendment) “Presentation of financial statements – Current/non-current classification of convertible instruments”; y
IAS 7 (Amendment) “Statement of Cash flows – Classification of expenditures on unrecognised assets”; y
IAS 17 (Amendment) “Leases – Classification of leases of land and buildings”; y
IAS 18 (Amendment) “Revenue – Determining whether an entity is acting as a principal or as an agent”; y
IAS 36 (Amendment) “Impairments of Assets – Unit of accounting for goodwill impairment test”; y
IAS 38 (Amendment) “Intangible Assets – Additional consequential amendments arising from revised IFRS 3” and “Measuring the  y
fair value of an intangible asset acquired in a business combination”;
IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement – Treating loan prepayment penalties as closely related embedded  y
derivatives”, “Scope exemption for business combination contracts” and “Cash flow hedge accounting”;
IFRIC 9, “Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives – Scope of IFRIC 9 and revised IFRS 3”; and y
IFRIC 16, “Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation – Amendment to the restriction on the entity that can hold hedging  y
instruments”.
51
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 2 Operating Segments
Determination and presentation of operating segments:
Further to the adoption of IFRS 8, the Group has determined that it has one operating segment and therefore one reportable segment 
being cinema operations. All the disclosable operating segment information required by IFRS8 can be found in the primary statements.
Revenue by destination and by origin from countries other than the UK in all financial periods was not material. Likewise non-current 
assets located in other countries other than the UK in all financial periods are not material.
Entity wide disclosures: 
      53 week 52 week  
      period ended period ended  
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      Total Total 
Revenue by product and service provided      £m £m
Box office      230.9 197.5
Retail      84.4 77.0
Other      18.1 24.4
Total revenue      333.4 298.9
All revenue streams are driven by admissions. The Group's internal management reporting and operations are not separated into 
these categories.
3 Other Operating Income
      53 week 52 week  
      period ended period ended  
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      Total Total 
      £m £m
Rental income      0.7 0.6
      0.7 0.6
4 Operating Profit 
Included in operating profit for the period are the following:
      53 week 52 week  
      period ended period ended  
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Depreciation (Note 9)      15.2
†
 13.9
†
Amortisation of intangibles (Note 10)      0.1
†
 0.1
†
Onerous lease and other non-recurring or non-cash property charges    0.4
*
 1.1
*
Transaction and reorganisation costs      0.4
†
 (0.2)
†
Hire of other assets – operating leases      46.0
**
 44.2
**
*  Included in costs of sales.
†  Included in administrative expenses.
** £1.0m included in administrative costs. The balance is included in cost of sales.
In 2009 there was a credit on onerous leases following changes in trading assumptions of £0.5m (2008: £0.3m) and non-cash 
property charges of £0.9m (2008: £1.4m).
In 2009, transaction and reorganisation costs relate to professional fees incurred in connection with an aborted acquisition. In 2008, 
there was a £0.2m release of surplus provisions relating to the sale of cinema sites in 2006.
52
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 4 Operating Profit continued
The total remuneration of the Group auditor’s, KPMG Audit Plc, and its affiliates for the services to the Group is analysed below.
      53 week 52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £'000 £'000
Auditors’ remuneration: 
Group – audit      190 208
Company – audit      5 5
Amounts received by auditors and their associates in respect of:   
– Audit of financial statements pursuant to legislation     195 213
– Audit related regulatory reporting      45 41
      240 254
– Other services relating to taxation      197 174
– Valuation and actuarial services      20 28
–  Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into by or on behalf 
of the Company or the Group      49 –
– Services relating to recruitment and remuneration     – 5
5 Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is calculated by dividing the profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, after excluding the weighted average number of non-vested ordinary 
shares held by the employee ownership trust. Adjusted earnings per share is calculated in the same way except that the profit for the 
period attributable to ordinary shareholders is adjusted by adding back the amortisation of intangible assets, the cost of share-based 
payments and other one-off income or expense. Adjusted pro forma earnings per share is calculated by applying a tax charge at the 
statutory rate, to the adjusted profit.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, after excluding the weighted average number of non-vested ordinary 
shares held by the employee share ownership trust and after adjusting for the effects of dilutive options, which in 2009 and 2008 
was £nil.
        53 week 52 week 
        period ended period ended 
        31 December 25 December 
        2009 2008 
        £m £m
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders      20.4 20.2
Adjustments: 
 Amortisation of intangible assets       0.1 0.1
 Share based-payments        0.4 0.1
 Transaction and reorganisation costs       0.4 (0.2)
 Impact of straight lining of operating leases      0.9 1.4
Adjusted earnings        (53 weeks) 22.2 (52 weeks) 21.6
 Add back tax charge        10.4 7.4
    
Adjusted pro forma profit before tax       (53 weeks) 32.6 (52 weeks) 29.0
 Less estimated impact of 53rd week in period      (0.6) –
 Less tax at 28% (2008: 28.5%)       (9.0) (8.3)
Adjusted pro forma profit after tax       (52 weeks) 23.0 (52 weeks) 20.7
    
53
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5 Earnings Per Share continued
        53 week 52 week 
        period ended period ended 
        31 December 25 December 
        2009 2008 
        Number of Number of 
        shares (m) shares (m)
Weighted average number of shares in issue      141.7 141.7
Basic and adjusted earnings per share denominator      141.7 141.7
Dilutive options        – –
Diluted earnings per share denominator       141.7 141.7
Shares in issue at period end       141.7 141.7
        Pence Pence
Basic and diluted earnings per share       (53 weeks) 14.4 (52 weeks) 14.3
Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share      (53 weeks) 15.7 (52 weeks) 15.2
Adjusted pro forma basic and diluted earnings per share     (52 weeks) 16.2 (52 weeks) 14.6
6 Staff Numbers and Costs
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the period, analysed by category, was as follows:
     Number of staff
      2009 2008
Head office      131 129
Cinemas      4,350 4,223
      4,481 4,352
   
Included in the average number of persons employed by the Group are part-time employees. No distinction is made between full-time 
and part-time employees in the analysis above.
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
      53 week  52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Wages and salaries      46.8 42.1
Social security costs      3.1 2.8
Other pension costs – defined benefit      – 0.1
 – defined contribution      0.4 0.3
Share-based payments (see Note 17)      0.4 0.1
      50.7 45.4
See pages 34 to 38 for Directors’ remuneration.
54
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 7 Finance Income and Expense
      53 week  52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Interest income      0.2 0.7
Expected return on defined benefit pension plan assets (Note 17)    1.0 1.2
Finance income      1.2 1.9
Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts     5.3 8.8
Amortisation of financing costs      0.3 0.4
Unwind of discount on onerous lease provision     1.1 0.6
Finance cost for defined benefit pension scheme (Note 17)    1.5 1.5
Interest charge as a result of change in discount rate relating to onerous lease provisions  1.2 –
Other financial costs      0.5 1.2
Finance expense      9.9 12.5
Net finance costs      8.7 10.6
Recognised within other Comprehensive Income:
      53 week  52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Movement in fair value of interest rate swap     0.3 (4.0)
Foreign exchange translation (loss)/gain      (0.5) 1.7
Finance income      (0.2) (2.3)
As a result of the change in accounting policy with respect to the treatment of borrowing costs (see Note 1), capitalised borrowing 
costs amounted to £0.1m at 31 December 2009. 
8 Taxation
Recognised in the Income Statement
      53 week  52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Current tax expense 
Current year      7.1 6.4
Adjustments in respect of prior years      1.7 (0.1)
Total current tax expense      8.8 6.3
Deferred tax expense 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences     1.6 1.1
Total tax charge in income statement      10.4 7.4
55
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 8 Taxation continued
Reconciliation of Effective Tax Rate
      53 week  52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Profit before tax      30.8 27.6
Tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 28% (2008: 28.5%)    8.6 7.9
Non-deductible expenses      – 0.8
Differences in overseas tax rates      (0.2) (0.3)
Accelerated capital allowances in excess of depreciation      0.3 (0.9)
Adjustments in respect of prior years      1.7 (0.1)
Total tax charge/(credit) in income statement     10.4 7.4
During the period there was a deferred tax charge of £0.3m (2008: tax credit £1.5m) recognised directly in equity. See Note 12.
Factors that may affect future tax charges
As at 31 December 2009 the Group had potential tax assets relating to the following:
other non-trading losses of approximately £2.6m (2008: £2.6m); and y
capital losses of approximately £7.6m (2008: £5.8m) y
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of non-trading and capital losses carried forward as it is unclear whether 
non-trading income or capital gains against which the losses may be offset will arise in the Group for the foreseeable future. The net 
tax benefit of utilising any of the above losses is expected to amount to approximately 28% of the losses utilised.
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures where the Group controls the timing of 
remittance and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The tax rate in 2008 was 28.5% since the change from 30% to 28% occurred on 6 April 2008.
56
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 9 Property, Plant and Equipment
      Assets in the 
   Land and Plant and Fixtures and course of 
   buildings machinery fittings construction Total 
   £m £m £m £m £m
Cost 
Balance at 27 December 2007   76.2 33.3 33.1 2.6 145.2
Additions   1.8  – 9.9 1.9 13.6
Disposals    –  – (4.3) – (4.3)
Transfers   4.2 – – (4.2)  –
Effects of movement in foreign exchange   1.1 0.3 3.3 – 4.7
Balance at 25 December 2008   83.3 33.6 42.0 0.3 159.2
Additions   0.8 4.9 7.5 4.3 17.5
Disposals   – (0.2) (2.0) – (2.2)
Transfers   4.6 – – (4.6) –
Effects of movement in foreign exchange   (0.2) (0.1) (0.7) – (1.0)
Balance at 31 December 2009   88.5 38.2 46.8 – 173.5
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
Balance at 27 December 2007   4.1 12.4 17.8  – 34.3
Charge for the period   4.3 0.5 9.1  – 13.9
Disposals   –  –  (4.3)  – (4.3)
Effects of movement in foreign exchange   – –  – –  –
Balance at 25 December 2008   8.9 13.2 24.5  – 46.6
Charge for the period   4.8 4.7 5.7 – 15.2
Disposals   – (0.2) (2.0) – (2.2)
Effects of movement in foreign exchange   (0.1) (0.1) (0.5) – (0.7)
Balance at 31 December 2009   13.6 17.6 27.7 – 58.9
Net book value 
At 27 December 2007   72.1 20.9 15.3 2.6 110.9
At 25 December 2008   74.4 20.4 17.5 0.3 112.6
At 31 December 2009   74.9 20.6 19.1 – 114.6
Land and buildings represents short leasehold properties encompassing leasehold improvements.
Security
The secured bank loans (see Note 15) are secured by fixed and floating charges on the assets of the Group.
The net book value of assets under a finance lease is:
      31 December  25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Opening net book value      5.4 5.7
Depreciation charge      (0.3) (0.3)
Closing net book value      5.1 5.4
The above assets held under finance leases relate to a finance lease held on one cinema site which is included within land and buildings.
Interest of £0.1m (2008: £nil) has been capitalised during the period in relation to the construction of new sites at a rate of 3.9%.
57
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 Intangible Assets
      Customer 
    Goodwill Brand relationships Total 
    £m £m £m £m
Cost 
Balance at 27 December 2007    223.8 1.2 8.4 233.4
Balance at 25 December 2008    223.8 1.2 8.4 233.4
Balance at 31 December 2009    223.8 1.2 8.4 233.4
Accumulated amortisation and impairment 
Balance at 27 December 2007    7.7 0.4 8.4 16.5
Amortisation    – 0.1 – 0.1
Balance at 25 December 2008    7.7 0.5 8.4 16.6
Amortisation    – 0.1 – 0.1
Balance at 31 December 2009    7.7 0.6 8.4 16.7
Net book value 
At 27 December 2007    216.1 0.8 – 216.9
At 25 December 2008    216.1 0.7 – 216.8
At 31 December 2009    216.1 0.6 – 216.7
Impairment testing
Goodwill is allocated as follows:
      31 December  25 December 
      2009 2008 
Group of CGUs      £m £m
Cineworld Group      216.1 n/a
Ex-Cine-UK sites      n/a 71.6
Ex-UGC sites excluding Dublin      n/a 142.3
Dublin      n/a 2.2
      216.1 216.1
Each individual cinema is considered to be a CGU. However, for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, it is acceptable under 
IAS 36 to group CGUs. On adoption during the period of IFRS 8 “Operating Segments”, the Directors have concluded that the Group 
now has one segment, being cinema operations. Furthermore, the ex-Cine-UK and ex-UGC (including Dublin) businesses are now fully 
integrated, meaning that goodwill is now monitored on a Group wide level. 
The recoverable amount of Cineworld has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That calculation uses cash flow 
projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a one-year period. Cash flows beyond that the first year 
period have been extrapolated using the below assumptions. This growth rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for 
the market in which Cineworld operates. 
The key assumptions behind the impairment review are as follows:
2010 forecast earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortisation (“EBITDA”) was used as the basis of the future cash flow 
calculation. This is adjusted to add back rent (“EBITDAR”) and essential capex on existing sites. In line with long-term industry growth 
rates, EBITDAR is assumed to grow at 3% per annum for the first five years. Thereafter for the purposes of the annual impairment 
review, it is assumed that the growth rate will decline over the remaining 15 years of cash flows, and EBITDA will decline over the final 
five years.
Property costs are factored into the model, but are assumed to grow at 2.5% per annum over the life of the model. Cash flows are not 
assumed in perpetuity. 
The Group has discounted forecast flows using a pre-tax discount rate of 10.1% being a market participant’s discount rate. This is 
considered to reflect the risks associated with the relevant cash flows.
Management have sensitised the key assumptions including the discount rate and under base case and sensitised case no indicators 
of impairment exist. Management believes that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which Cineworld’s 
recoverable amount is based would not cause Cineworld’s carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
58
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 10 Intangible Assets continued
Amortisation Charge
The amortisation of intangible assets is recognised in the following line items in the income statement:
      53 week  52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Administrative expenses      0.1 0.1
11 Investment in equity accounted investee
The Group has the following investment in a jointly controlled entity:
     Country of Class of 
     Incorporation shares held Ownership
Digital Cinema Media Limited     England Ordinary 50% 
     and Wales
On 8 February 2008 the Group jointly formed Digital Cinema Media Limited (“DCM”) with Odeon Cinemas Holdings Limited (“Odeon”). 
On 10 July 2008 DCM acquired certain trade and assets (substantially employees, computer systems, leasehold office and existing 
contracts) from Carlton Screen Advertising Limited, the Group’s former advertising supplier. 
Under the terms of the shareholder agreement between the Group and Odeon, key business decisions in respect of DCM require the 
unanimous approval of the shareholders. As a consequence, the Directors of the Group do not have total management control of DCM, 
therefore the Group’s investment is accounted for as a joint venture.
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Cost      0.9 0.9
Share of post acquisition reserves      0.1 –
      1.0 0.9
Share of post tax (loss)/profit      (0.1) 0.1
Carrying value      0.9 1.0
Summary aggregated financial information on jointly controlled entities – 100 per cent:
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Current assets      14.7 16.4
Non-current assets      1.8 0.7
Current liabilities      (10.5) (15.8)
Non-current liabilities      (6.0) (1.1)
Net assets      – 0.2
Income      41.9 28.2
Expenses      (42.1) (28.0)
Net (loss)/profit      (0.2) 0.2
59
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 12 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
 Assets 
|
 Liabilities 
| 
Net
  31 December 25 December 31 December 25 December 31 December 25 December 
  2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment  5.7 7.3 (3.1) (3.3) 2.6 4.0
Intangible assets  – – (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) (0.2)
Employee benefits  0.4 0.9 – – 0.4 0.9
Reverse premiums  2.9 3.1 – – 2.9 3.1
Effect of straight-lining operating lease accruals 8.1 7.8 – – 8.1 7.8
Interest rate swap  1.0 1.1 – – 1.0 1.1
Tax assets/(liabilities)  18.1 20.2 (3.3) (3.5) 14.8 16.7
Set off tax  (1.5) (1.6)  1.5 1.6 – –
Net tax assets/(liabilities)  16.6 18.6 (1.8) (1.9) 14.8 16.7
See Note 8 for details of unrecognised tax assets.
Deferred taxation provided for in the financial statements at the year end represents provision at 28% (2008: 28%) on the above items. 
A review of the deferred tax is performed at each balance sheet date and adjustments made in the event of a change in assumptions.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been recognised as follows:
    25 December Recognised Recognised 31 December 
    2008 in income in equity 2009 
    £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment    4.0 (1.4) – 2.6
Intangible assets    (0.2) – – (0.2)
Employee benefits    0.9 (0.3) (0.2) 0.4
Reverse premiums    3.1 (0.2) – 2.9
Effect of straight-lining operating lease accruals   7.8 0.3 – 8.1
Interest rate swap    1.1 – (0.1) 1.0
Tax assets/(liabilities)    16.7 (1.6) (0.3) 14.8
    27 December Recognised Recognised 25 December 
    2007 in income in equity 2008 
    £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment    5.4 (1.4) – 4.0
Intangible assets    (0.2) – – (0.2)
Employee benefits    0.7 (0.2) 0.4 0.9
Reverse premiums    2.9 0.2 – 3.1
Effect of straight-lining operating lease accruals   7.5 0.3 – 7.8
Interest rate swap    – – 1.1 1.1
Tax assets/(liabilities)    16.3 (1.1) 1.5 16.7
13 Inventories
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Goods for resale      1.9 1.7
      1.9 1.7
Goods for resale recognised in cost of sales in the period amounted to £17.0m (2008: £15.5m).
60
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 14 Trade and Other Receivables
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
Current      £m £m
Trade receivables      1.2 2.2
Other receivables      0.3 0.7
Loan to jointly controlled entity      – 0.5
Prepayments and accrued income      18.4 18.5
      19.9 21.9
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
Non-current      £m £m
Land lease premiums      0.9  0.9
Loan to jointly controlled entity      0.5 –
      1.4 0.9
15 Interest-Bearing Loans and Borrowings and Other Financial Liabilities
This Note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Non-current liabilities 
Interest rate swaps      1.3 2.7
Secured bank loans, less issue costs of debt to be amortised    101.7 110.5
Liabilities under finance leases      6.3 6.4
      109.3 119.6
Current liabilities 
Interest rate swaps      2.6 1.5
Secured bank loans, less issue costs of debt to be amortised    8.7 8.6
Liabilities under finance leases      0.6 0.5
      11.9 10.6
The terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows:
   31 December 2009 
|
 25 December 2008
    Nominal Year of Face Carrying Face Carrying  
   Currency interest rate maturity value amount value amount
Secured bank loan   GBP LIBOR + 0.95% 2012 111.0 110.4 120.0 119.1
Finance lease liability   GBP 7.2% 2029 6.9 6.9 6.9 6.9
Total interest bearing liabilities     117.9 117.3 126.9 126.0
On 26 April 2007 the bank loans were refinanced with a new term loan of £135m for a term of five years and interest charged at 
0.95% (2008: 0.95%) above LIBOR based on the current position with respect to the covenants. The range payable above LIBOR is 
0.7%–1.35% depending on the covenant headroom. The bank loans are secured by fixed and floating charges on the assets of the 
Group. The balance of the loan at 25 December 2009 was £111m. In addition to the term loan, the Group has a £30m revolver which 
has not been drawn down.
See Note 20 for bank loan maturity analysis.
61
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15 Interest-Bearing Loans and Borrowings and Other Financial Liabilities continued
Finance lease liabilities
The maturity of obligations under finance leases is as follows:
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Within one year      0.6 0.5
Between one and two years      0.6 0.5
In the second to fifth years      1.7 1.7
Over five years      10.4 11.1
      13.3 13.8
Less future finance charges      (6.4) (6.9)
      6.9 6.9
Analysis of net debt
   Cash at bank Bank Finance Interest  
   and in hand loans leases rate swap Net debt 
   £m £m £m £m £m
At 27 December 2007   10.4 (127.7) (6.9) (0.2) (124.4)
Cash flows    2.0 9.0 0.5 – 11.5
Non-cash movement   – (0.4)  (0.5) (4.0) (4.9)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange rates  0.4 – – –  0.4
At 25 December 2008   12.8 (119.1) (6.9) (4.2) (117.4)
Cash flows   4.1 9.0 0.5 – 13.6
Non-cash movement   – (0.3) (0.5) 0.3 (0.5)
At 31 December 2009   16.9 (110.4) (6.9) (3.9) (104.3)
The non-cash movements relating to bank loans represent the amortisation of debt issuance costs.
16 Trade and other payables
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Current
Trade payables      21.8 23.2
Other payables      4.7 3.9
Accruals and deferred income      20.0 19.3
      46.5 46.4
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Non-current
Accruals and deferred income      53.5 50.5
Non-current accruals and deferred income include reverse-lease premiums and an accrual for straight lining operating leases. 
62
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 17 Employee Benefits
Pension Plans
The Group operates two externally funded defined benefit pension schemes, one in the United Kingdom, the MGM Pension Scheme, 
and one in Ireland, the Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan.
The Company made contributions of £1.6m during 2009 (2008: £1.7m).
The latest actuarial valuation of the MGM Pension Scheme took place on 5 April 2009 albeit still in draft form. The principal 
assumptions used by the independent qualified actuaries in updating the latest valuation of the scheme for IAS 19 are stated 
further below.
The scheme closed to new accrual during the year and the remaining active members became deferred on 31 May 2009. Full details 
have been given to the relevant members.
The Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan is closed to new entrants and therefore the current service cost is £nil. 
The trustees of the Adelphi-Carlton Contributory Pension Plan have not agreed that any surplus on the plan can be refunded to 
the Company. Accordingly the surplus has not been recognised.
Actuaries for Adelphi-Carlton Limited carried out the last actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 1 April 2007. Based on this 
assessment, the actuarial value of the assets of the scheme was more than sufficient to cover 100% of the benefits that had accrued 
to members. In view of this, a suspension of Company contributions was in force from 1 April 2001 to 31 December 2009. Total 
contributions for the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2008 and 31 December 2009 were £nil and £nil, respectively. No surplus is 
recognised in respect of the Adelphi-Carlton Scheme because the Company is not able to assess the surplus. 
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in equity.
The net deficit in the pension scheme is:
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
MGM Pension Scheme      (0.7) (2.6)
Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension     – –
Net deficit      (0.7) (2.6)
MGM Pension Scheme
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations     (26.6) (24.4)
Fair value of plan assets      25.9 21.8
Deficit in scheme      (0.7) (2.6)
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation:
      53 week 52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
At beginning of period      (24.4) (26.6)
Current service cost      – (0.1)
Interest cost      (1.5) (1.5)
Contributions by scheme participants      (0.1) (0.1)
Actuarial (loss)/gain      (1.7) 2.9
Benefits paid      1.1 1.0
At end of period      (26.6) (24.4)
63
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17 Employee Benefits continued
Movements in fair value of plan assets:
      53 week 52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
At start of period      21.8 24.2
Expected return on plan assets      1.0 1.2
Actuarial gains/(losses)      2.5 (4.4)
Contributions by employer      1.6 1.7
Contributions by members      0.1 0.1
Benefits paid      (1.1) (1.0)
At end of period      25.9 21.8
Income/(expense) recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income:
      53 week 52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Current service cost      – (0.1)
Interest on defined benefit pension plan obligation     (1.5) (1.5)
Expected return on defined benefit pension plan assets     1.0 1.2
Total      (0.5) (0.4)
The income/(expense) is recognised in the following line items in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income:
      53 week 52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Administrative expenses      – (0.1)
Financial expenses      (1.5) (1.5)
Financial income      1.0 1.2
Total      (0.5) (0.4)
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income:
      53 week 52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in the period     0.8 (1.5)
Cumulative amount at start of period      0.5 2.0
Cumulative amount at end of period      1.3 0.5
64
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 17 Employee Benefits continued
The fair value of the plan assets and the return on those assets were as follows:
    Long-term 53 week Long-term 52 week 
    rate of return period ended rate of return period ended 
    expected at 31 December expected at 25 December 
    31 December 2009 25 December 2008 
    2009 £m 2008 £m
Equities    8.00% 11.6 7.50% 10.2
Fixed interest bonds    4.50% – 4.00% 3.6
Index linked bonds    4.25% 5.1 3.75% 7.8
Corporate bonds    5.50% 8.0 – –
Other    1.00% 1.2 2.50% 0.2
     25.9  21.8
Cineworld Cinemas Ltd employs a building block approach in determining the long-term rate of return on pension plan assets. Historical 
markets are studied and assets with higher volatility are assumed to generate higher returns consistent with widely accepted capital 
market principles. The assumed long-term rate of return on each asset class is set out within this Note. The overall expected rate of 
return on assets is then derived by aggregating the expected return for each asset class over the actual asset allocation for the 
Scheme at the accounting date.
      53 week 52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Expected return on scheme assets      1.0 1.2
Actuarial gain/(loss)      2.5 (4.4)
Actual return on plan assets      3.5 (3.2)
Principal actuarial assumptions (expressed as weighted averages):
      53 week 52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      % %
Inflation      3.9 2.9
Rate of general long-term increase in salaries     4.9 3.9
Rate of increase to pensions in payment      2.7–4.0 2.3–3.6
Discount rate for scheme liabilities      5.7 6.3
The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables which allow for future mortality improvements. The assumptions are 
that a member currently aged 65 will live on average for a further 21.0 years if they are male and for a further 23.8 years if they are 
female. For a member who retires in 2019 at age 65 the assumptions are that they will live on average for a further 21.6 years after 
retirement if they are male and for a 24.4 years after retirement if they are female.
History of Plans
The history of the plans for the current and prior periods is as follows:
Balance Sheet
   53 week 52 week 52 week 52 week 52 week 
   period ended period ended period ended period ended period ended 
   31 December 25 December 27 December 28 December 29 December 
   2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 
   £m £m £m £m £m
Present value of defined benefit obligation  (26.6) (24.4) (26.6) (26.4) (28.2)
Fair value of plan assets   25.9 21.8 24.2 21.8 20.9
Deficit   (0.7) (2.6) (2.4) (4.6) (7.3)
65
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17 Employee Benefits continued
Experience adjustments
   53 week 52 week 52 week 52 week 52 week 
   period ended period ended period ended period ended period ended 
   31 December 25 December 27 December 28 December 29 December 
   2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 
   £m £m £m £m £m
Experience gain/(loss) on plan assets   2.5 (4.4) 0.3 0.3 1.9
Experience gain/(loss) on plan liabilities   2.7 – – 0.1 (0.1)
The Group expects to contribute approximately £1.6m to its defined benefit plans in the next financial period.
Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations     (1.2) (1.3)
Fair value of plan assets      1.9 1.9
Surplus in scheme      0.7 0.6
Irrecoverable surplus      (0.7) (0.6)
      – –
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation:
      53 week 52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
At beginning of period      (1.3) (1.0)
Interest      – (0.1)
Benefits paid      0.1 0.1
Exchange rate movement      – (0.3)
At end of period      (1.2) (1.3)
Movements in fair value of plan assets:
      53 week 52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
At start of period      1.9 1.7
Expected return on plan assets      0.1 0.1
Actuarial gain/(loss)      0.1 (0.4)
Benefits paid      (0.1) (0.1)
Exchange rate adjustments      (0.1) 0.6
At end of period      1.9 1.9
66
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 17 Employee Benefits continued
Expense recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income:
      53 week 52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Expected return on defined benefit pension plan assets     – –
Total      – –
The income is recognised in the following line items in the consolidated income statement:
      53 week 52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Financial income      – –
      – –
Actuarial gains recognised directly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income:
      53 week 52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Actuarial gains recognised in the period      – –
Cumulative amount at start of period      0.1 0.1
Cumulative amount at end of period      0.1 0.1
The fair value of the plan assets and the return on those assets were as follows:
     53 week  52 week 
     period ended  period ended 
    Expected 31 December Expected 25 December 
    rate of 2009 rate of 2008 
    return £m return £m
Equities    7.00% 0.4 7.70% 0.4
Property    6.50% – 6.00% 0.1
Corporate bonds    4.10% 1.4 5.00% 1.4
Other    3.10% 0.1 3.00% –
     1.9  1.9
Actual return on plan assets:
      53 week 52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Expected return on scheme assets      0.1 0.1
Actuarial gain/(loss)      0.1 (0.4)
Actual return on plan assets      0.2 (0.3)
67
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17 Employee Benefits continued
Principal actuarial assumptions (expressed as weighted averages):
      53 week 52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      % %
Inflation rate      2.00 1.75
Discount rate      5.00 5.00
Expected rate of return on plan assets      4.76 5.54
Rate of pension increases in payment      3.00 3.00
Rate of pension increases in deferment      2.00 1.75
Material demographic assumptions      110% 110%
      PNFA00 and PNFA00 and
      110% 110%
      PNMA00 with PNMA00 with
      1.25% pa 1.25% pa
      future future
      mortality mortality
      improvements improvements
History of Plans
The history of the plans for the current and prior periods is as follows:
Balance Sheet
   53 week 52 week 52 week 52 week 52 week 
   period ended period ended period ended period ended period ended 
   31 December 25 December 27 December 28 December 29 December 
   2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 
   £m £m £m £m £m
Present value of defined benefit obligation  (1.2) (1.3) (1.0) (1.0) (1.1)
Fair value of plan assets   1.9 1.9 1.7 1.7 1.7
Surplus   0.7 0.6 0.7 0.7 0.6
Irrecoverable surplus   (0.7) (0.6) (0.7) (0.7) (0.6)
   – – – – –
Experience Adjustments
   53 week 52 week 52 week 52 week 52 week 
   period ended period ended period ended period ended period ended 
   31 December 25 December 27 December 28 December 29 December 
   2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 
   £m £m £m £m £m
Experience gain/(loss) on plan assets   0.1 (0.4) – – 0.2
Experience gain/(loss) on plan liabilities   – – – – –
The Group expects to contribute approximately £nil to the Adelphi-Carlton defined benefit plans in the next financial year.
Defined Contribution Plans
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans.
The total expense relating to these plans in the current year was £0.4m (2008: £0.3m).
Share-Based Payments
Employee Sharesave Scheme – Period Ended 25 December 2008
A grant was made under the Sharesave Scheme in 2008. Options were granted to 143 employees over 559,011 shares on 
31 October 2008. 
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the 
options. The shares were valued using the Black-Scholes Model. A charge of £35,000 was recorded in the income statement for the 
period in respect of both the 2007 and 2008 Sharesave Scheme grants.
68
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 17 Employee Benefits continued
Employee Sharesave Scheme – Period Ended 31 December 2009
A charge of £62,000 was recorded in the income statement for the period in respect of both the 2007 and 2008 Sharesave 
Scheme grants.
The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) – Period Ended 25 December 2008
Under the PSP, awards of conditional shares can be made that vest after three years subject to continued employment and the 
achievement of specified performance conditions as follows:
30% of the shares under the award will vest if the average annual growth in earnings per share (“EPS”) (calculated by comparing the  y
EPS for the financial year ended 27 December 2007 and the EPS for the financial year ending 30 December 2010) is not less 
than 3.2%
100% of the shares under the award will vest if the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial  y
year ended 27 December 2007 and the EPS for the financial year ending 30 December 2010) is at least 9.2%
Where the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 27 December 2007 and the  y
EPS for the financial year ending 30 December 2010) is between the two limits above, the award shall vest on a straight-line basis 
between 30% and 100%. 
EPS for the 2008 grants was defined as the normalised undiluted EPS excluding any differed tax charge relating to tax assets in 
existence on listing and exceptional items.
On 20 March 2008 awards were granted over 401,000 shares under the PSP. The shares were valued using the Black-Scholes Model. 
A charge of £66,000 was recorded in the income statement in respect of shares granted under the PSP.
The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) – Period Ended 31 December 2009
Further grants were made under the PSP scheme on 26 March 2009. Under these grants, awards over 242,186 shares were made 
with the same conditions as the 2008 grant, but with reference to the financial years 25 December 2008 to 30 December 2011. 
Further awards over 137,451 shares were made which will vest after three years subject to continued employment only, with no 
specified performance conditions attached.
EPS for the 2009 grant was defined as adjusted pro forma diluted EPS as calculated in Note 5 to the financial statements.
A charge of £387,000 was recorded in the income statement in respect of both the 2008 and 2009 PSP schemes. 
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options in equity settled schemes are as follows:
    Weighted average Number Weighted average Number 
    exercise price of options exercise price of options 
    2009 2009 2008 2008 
    Equity-settled Equity-settled Equity-settled Equity-settled
Outstanding at the beginning of the year    0.67 1,085,819 1.63 348,168
Exercised during the year    –  – –
Granted during the year    – 379,637 0.54 960,011
Lapsed during the year    1.27 (86,570) 1.63 (222,360)
Outstanding at the end of the year    0.44 1,378,886 0.67 1,085,819
Exercisable at the end of the year    – – – –
The average share price during 2009 was £1.40 (2008: £1.18).
Assumptions relating to grants of share options in 2007 were:
  Share price Exercise Expected Expected Dividend Risk free Fair 
Scheme name Date of grant at grant (£) price (£) volatility (%) life (years) yield (%) rate (%) value (£)
Sharesave Scheme 26 October 2007 2.00 1.63 53 3.25 6.5 0.61 0.60
69
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17 Employee Benefits continued
From the 2007 issue, 81,497 were outstanding at 31 December 2009. The number of share options that lapsed from this issue in 
2009 was 45,216.
Assumptions relating to grants of share options in 2008 were:
    Share price Exercise Expected Expected Dividend Risk free Fair 
Scheme name   Date of grant at grant (£) price (£) volatility (%) life (years) yield (%) rate (%) value (£)
Sharesave Scheme   31 October 2008 1.04 0.93 53 3.25 6.5 0.61 0.29
PSP   20 March 2008 1.30 Nil 53 3.0 6.5 0.61 1.07
Assumptions relating to grants of share options in 2009 were:
    Share price Exercise Expected Expected Dividend Risk free Fair 
Scheme name   Date of grant at grant (£) price (£) volatility (%) life (years) yield (%) rate (%) value (£)
PSP   26 March 2009 1.28 Nil 53 3.0 6.5 0.61 1.05
The total expenses recognised for the period arising from share-based payments are as follows:
      53 week 52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Equity-settled share-based payment expense     0.4 0.1
Share-based payments expenses      0.4 0.1
18 Provisions
          Property 
          provisions 
          £m
Balance at 25 December 2008         12.5
Non-current          10.4
Current          2.1
Total          12.5
Balance at 25 December 2008         12.5
Provisions made (released) during the period        (0.5)
Effect of change in discount rate during the period         1.2
Utilised against rent during the period         (2.5)
Utilised against interest during the period         1.1
Balance at 31 December 2009         11.8
Non-current          10.6
Current          1.2
Total          11.8
70
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 18 Provisions continued
Property provisions relate to onerous leases, dilapidations and other property liabilities. The majority of the property provision relates 
to onerous leases being the rent payable on particular cinema sites that is in excess of the economic benefits expected to be derived 
from their operation on a discounted basis. The remaining provision will be utilised over the period to the next rent review date or the 
remaining lease life depending on the term of the lease. This is between two and 30 years (see further analysis below). The discount 
rate used in the period was 10.1%.
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008
Expected timing for utilisation of property provisions
Analysed as: 
Within one year      1.2 2.1
Between one and two years      1.5 1.2
In the second to fifth years      2.9 3.3
Over five years      6.2 5.9
      11.8 12.5
19 Capital and Reserves 
Share Capital
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Cineworld Group plc 
Authorised 
250,000,000 ordinary shares of £0.01 each     2.5 2.0
Allotted, called up and fully paid       
141,721,509 ordinary shares of £0.01 each     1.4 1.4
Translation Reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign 
operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
Hedging Reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the liability in relation to the interest rate swap entered into to hedge against variable interest 
payments on £57.8m (2008: £62.5m) of the total £111.0m (2008: £120.0m) of bank debt. As hedge accounting has been adopted 
the gains/losses are recorded through equity until such time as the cash flows being hedged occur, when they are recycled to the 
income statement.
Dividends
The following dividends were recognised during the period:
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Interim      4.5 4.5
Final (for the preceding period)      9.0 9.2
      13.5 13.7
An interim dividend of 3.2p per share was paid on 2 October 2009 to ordinary shareholders (2008: 3.2p). The Board has proposed 
a final dividend of 6.8p per share, which will result in total cash payable of £9.6m on 7 July 2010 (2008: final dividend £9.0m). 
In accordance with IAS 10 this had not been recognised as a liability at 31 December 2009. 
71
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 20 Financial Instruments
Overview
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
Credit risk y
Liquidity risk y
Market risk y
This Note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and processes 
for measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of capital. 
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. The 
Board has established the Risk Management Committee, which is responsible for developing and monitoring the Group’s risk 
management policies. The Committee reports regularly to the Board of Directors on its activities. 
The Group’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk 
limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to 
reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities. The Group, through its training and management standards and 
procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles 
and obligations.
The Group’s Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and 
procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks by the Group. The Group’s Audit 
Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit. Internal Audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of certain risk 
management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual 
obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and investment securities. 
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. However due to the nature of the Group’s business trade 
receivables are not significant which limits the related credit risk. The Group’s trade receivables are disclosed in Note 14. Of the total 
balance of £1.2m (2008: £2.2m) due 50% (2008: 78.6%) are within credit terms. A further 24% outside credit terms cleared after 
2009 period end and before signing of the financial statements. The bad debt provision as at 2009 is £0.1m (2008: £nil), with a bad 
debt expense in the period of £0.1m. (2008: credit of £0.3m as a provision for doubtful debts made in 2007 was released). Based on 
past experience the Group believes that no additional impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables that are past 
due. The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is also limited because the counterparties are banks with high 
credit-ratings.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to 
managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both 
normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation.
In addition to the financial liabilities set out in the table below, the Group has a £30m revolver facility with Barclays Bank available to 
May 2012, which to date has not been drawn on.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of netting 
agreements. The amounts disclosed in the table are contractual undiscounted cash flows, including interest payments calculated using 
interest rates in force at each balance sheet date, so will not always reconcile with the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet.
31 December 2009
    Carrying Contractual 6 months 6–12 1–2 2–5 More than 
    amount cash flows or less months years years 5 years 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Secured bank loans    110.4 (114.8) (5.4) (5.3) (10.6) (93.5) –
Finance lease liabilities    6.9 (13.3) (0.3) (0.3) (0.6) (1.7) (10.4)
Trade and other payables    21.8 (21.8) (21.8) – – – –
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps used for hedging   3.9 (6.0) (1.3) (1.3) (2.6) (0.8) –
    143.0 (155.9) (28.8) (6.9) (13.8) (96.0) (10.4)
72
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 20 Financial Instruments continued
The secured bank loan is subject to two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net 
finance charges.
25 December 2008
    Carrying Contractual 6 months 6–12 1–2 2–5 More than 
    amount cash flows or less months years years 5 years 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Secured bank loans    119.1 (133.3) (6.7) (6.7) (13.1) (106.8) –
Finance lease liabilities    6.9 (13.8) (0.2) (0.3) (0.5) (1.7) (11.1)
Trade and other payables    23.2 (23.2) (23.2) – – – –
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps used for hedging   4.2 (5.3) (0.7) (0.8) (1.5) (2.3) –
    153.4 (175.6) (30.8) (7.8) (15.1) (110.8) (11.1)
        
Cash Flow Hedges
The following table indicates the periods in which the discounted cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are 
expected to occur.
2009
    Carrying Expected 6 months 6–12 1–2 2–5 More than 
    amount cash flows or less months years years 5 years 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest rate swaps: 
 Liabilities    (3.9) (3.9) (1.3) (1.3) (1.1) (0.2) –
        
2008
    Carrying Expected 6 months 6–12 1–2 2–5 More than 
    amount cash flows or less months years years 5 years 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest rate swaps: 
 Liabilities    (4.2) (4.2) (0.7) (0.8) (1.5) (1.2) –
        
It is expected that the expected cash flows will impact profit and loss when the cash flows occur.
Market Risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the 
Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control 
market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk. 
Foreign Currency Risk
The majority of the Group’s operations are in the United Kingdom and hence for these operations there is no exposure to foreign 
currency risk other than in respect of certain purchases that may be denominated in currencies other than sterling. In addition there 
is an operation in Ireland where non-sterling revenues, purchases, financial assets and liabilities and cash flows can be affected by 
movements in euro rates. However, the exposure is limited as euro operations are not significant. A 10% increase/(decrease) in the 
value of €1 against sterling would increase/decrease the profit before tax for 2009 by approximately £107,000 (2008: £205,000.) 
A 10% increase/(decrease) in the value of €1 against sterling would increase/decrease equity in 2009 by approximately £139,000 
(2008: £375,000). 
Interest Rate Risk
The Group’s policy is to manage its cost of borrowing by securing fixed interest rates on a portion of its term loan.
Whilst fixed rate interest bearing debt is not exposed to cash flow interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the Group to enjoy 
a reduction in borrowing costs in markets where rates are falling.
In addition, the fair value risk inherent in fixed rate borrowing means that the Group is exposed to unplanned costs should debt be 
restructured or repaid early as part of the liquidity management process.
The Group uses interest rate swaps agreed with other parties to hedge a portion of its bank loans that have variable interest rates. 
Interest rate swaps are measured at fair value, which have been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing 
interest rates.
73
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 20 Financial Instruments continued
At the period end the Group had one interest rate swap which hedged 52.1% (2008: 51.9%) of the Group’s variable rate secured 
bank debt. As a result, there is no impact on the income statement relating to the hedged bank debt as a result of any changes in 
interest rates.
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments was:
       Carrying amount
      2009 2008
Fixed rate instruments
Financial liabilities (interest rate swap)      (3.9) (4.2)
Financial liabilities (secured bank loans – hedged portion)    (57.8) (62.3)
      (61.7) (66.5)
Variable rate instruments
Financial liabilities (secured bank loans – unhedged portion)    (53.2) (57.7)
£57.8m (2008: £62.3m) of the variable rate financial liability is hedged via the interest rate swap with the balance attracting a variable 
interest rate.
Fair Value Sensitivity Analysis for Fixed Rate Instruments
The Group accounts for fixed rate derivative financial instruments (interest rate swaps) at fair value. The gain or loss on 
remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement except where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting 
when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged. Hedge accounting was adopted from 
the year ended 27 December 2007 on the swap taken out in May 2007.
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates would have increased equity by £1.1m or decreased equity by £1.1m (2008: increase 
£1.8m, decrease £1.8m) and would have increased or decreased profit or loss by £nil (2008: £nil).
Cash Flow Sensitivity Analysis for Variable Rate Instruments
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit or loss 
by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. 
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2008.
     Profit or loss 
|
 Equity
    100 bp 100 bp 100 bp 100 bp  
Effect in GBP thousands    increase decrease increase decrease
31 December 2009
Variable rate instruments    (1,191) 1,191 (1,191) 1,191
Interest rate swap    595 (595) 595 (595)
Cash flow sensitivity (net)    (596) 596 (596) 596
25 December 2008
Variable rate instruments    (1,287) 1,287 (1,287) 1,287
Interest rate swap    643 (643) 643 (643)
Cash flow sensitivity (net)    (644) 644 (644) 644
74
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 20 Financial Instruments continued
Fair Values
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in 
the financial statements.
Short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from the following disclosures on the basis that their carrying amount is a 
reasonable approximation to fair value.
    Carrying  Carrying  
    amount Fair value amount Fair value 
    31 December 31 December 25 December 25 December 
    2009 2009 2008 2008 
    £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents    (16.9) (16.9) (12.8) (12.8)
Secured bank loans    110.4 106.5 119.1 120.0
Finance lease liabilities    6.9 6.9 6.9 6.9
Interest rate swaps    3.9 3.9 4.2 4.2
    104.3 100.4 117.4 118.3
The fair value of derivatives and borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest 
rates. The carrying amount of secured bank loans is stated net of debt issuance costs and the fair value is stated gross of debt 
issuance costs and is calculated using the market interest rates.
The difference between net carrying amount and estimated fair value reflects unrealised gains or losses inherent in the instruments 
based on valuations at 31 December 2009 and 25 December 2008. The volatile nature of the markets means that values at any 
subsequent date could be significantly different from the values reported above.
Fair value hierarchy
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method. The different levels have been defined 
as follows:
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. y
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the assets or liability, either directly   y
(i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
Level 3: inputs for the assets or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). y
    Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 
    £m £m £m £m
31 December 2009
Derivative financial instruments    – 3.9 – 3.9
There have been no transfers between levels in 2009. No other financial instruments are held at fair value.
Capital Management
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 
company, being £205.1m. The Board of Directors constantly monitor the ongoing capital requirements of the business and have 
reviewed the current gearing ratio, being the ratio of bank debt to equity and consider it appropriate for the Group’s current 
circumstances. In addition the Group has a £30m revolver, which has not been drawn down. The Group’s objective when managing 
capital is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future 
development of the business, to provide returns for shareholders and to optimise the capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. 
The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the return on capital, which the Group 
defines as total shareholders’ equity and the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders. The Group’s target dividend payout ratio is 
60% of underlying net income.
75
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21 Operating Leases
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals commitments are as follows:
  Land and  31 December Land and  25 December 
  buildings Other 2009 buildings Other 2008 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year  45.0 0.4 45.4 41.8 0.4 42.2
Between one and five years  181.3 1.3 182.6 169.7 1.8 171.5
More than five years  593.8 – 593.8 587.4 – 587.4
  820.1 1.7 821.8 798.9 2.2 801.1
22 Statement of Cash Flows
The Group has represented its cash flow statement during the period, to better represent the nature of the cash flows. The effect of 
this is to include the surplus of pension contributions over the current service cost within cash generated from operations, and to 
include the investment in jointly controlled entity within investing activities. The comparative period has been represented. The impact 
is to reduce cash generated from operations in the prior period by £1.6m with a corresponding increase in investing activities  
and to reduce cash flows from investing activities by £0.5m with a corresponding increase in cash flows from financing activities. The 
overall net increase in cash and cash equivalents in the comparative period is unaffected.
23 Capital Commitments
Capital commitments at the end of the financial period for which no provision has been made:
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £m £m
Contracted      2.9 4.0
Additional capital commitments of £3.2m were made between the end of the financial period and the approval of the Financial 
Statements on 11 March 2010
24 Related parties
The compensation of key management personnel (including the Directors) is as follows:
    Salary Compensation 
    and fees  for loss Pension 
    including bonus of office contributions Total 
    £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
53 weeks ended 31 December 2009
Total compensation for key management 
Personnel (including the Directors)    1,841 – 147 1,988
    Salary Compensation 
    and fees  for loss Pension 
    including bonus of office contributions Total 
    £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
52 weeks ended 25 December 2008
Total compensation for key management
Personnel (including the Directors)    1,688 – 142 1,830
During 2009, M Tooth, L Guffey and A Roux served as Directors appointed by Blackstone, a major shareholder. Their Directors’ fees of 
£33,000, £29,700 and £3,300 respectively (2008: £30,250, £30,250 and £nil) are payable to Blackstone. L Guffey resigned in 
November 2009 and A Roux was appointed in his place.
Share-based compensation benefit charges for key management personnel (including Directors) was £0.2m in 2009 (2008: £0.1m).
Other related party transactions
Digital Cinema Media (“DCM”) is a joint venture between the Group and Odeon Cinemas Holdings Limited set up on 10 July 2008. 
Revenue receivable from DCM in the 53 week period ending 31 December 2009 totalled £11.3m (2008: £7.4m) and as at 
31 December 2009 £1.2m (2008: £2.2m) was due from DCM in respect of receivables. In addition the Group has a working capital 
loan outstanding from DCM of £0.5m (2008: £0.5m). The Group has guaranteed £2.75m of DCM’s bank debt payable to Royal Bank 
of Scotland. The Group does not consider it is probable that it will be called on under the terms of the guarantee.
 
76
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements)     31 December 31 December 25 December 25 December 
    2009 2009 2008 2008 
   Note £.000 £.000 £.000 £.000
Fixed assets
Investments   27  131,798  131,349
Current assets
Debtors   28 105,667  93,667
Cash at bank    5,003  3,006
    110,670  96,673
Creditors: amount falling due within one year  29 (54,211)  (37,514)
Net current assets     56,459  59,159
Net assets     188,257  190,508
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital   30  1,417  1,417
Share premium account   30  171,354  171,354
Profit and loss account   30  15,486  17,737
Shareholders’ funds – equity     188,257  190,508
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 11 March 2010 and were signed on its behalf by:
Stephen Wiener    Richard Jones
Director     Director
77
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Company Balance Sheet
at 31 December 2009       53 week  52 week 
      period ended period ended 
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
     Note £'000 £'000
Profit for the period      10,763 20,052
Dividends paid during the year     30 (13,463) (13,747)
Equity instruments granted     30 449 101
Net (decrease)/increase in shareholders’ funds     (2,251) 6,406
Opening shareholders’ funds      190,508 184,102
Closing shareholders’ funds      188,257 190,508
78
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Company Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds
for the Period Ended 31 December 2009 25 Accounting Policies
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the 
Company’s financial statements.
Basis of Preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and under the historical cost 
accounting rules.
Information regarding the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position is set out in the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers' Review and the Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 8 to 17. 
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief Executive and 
Chief Financial Officers’ Report on pages 8 to 15. In addition Note 20 to the financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments and 
hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
As highlighted in Note 15 to the financial statements, the Group meets its day to day working capital requirements through its bank 
facilities which consist of a £111m term loan plus £30m revolver which matures in 2012. The current economic conditions create 
uncertainty particularly over: (a) the level of demand for the Group’s products; and (b) the availability of bank finance in the 
foreseeable future.
The bank facility is subject to two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net finance 
charges. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the 
Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facility, including compliance with the bank facility covenants.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual financial statements.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
Under Financial Reporting Standard 1 the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds 
that its cash flows are included within the consolidated financial statements of Cineworld Group plc.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with 
entities which form part of the Cineworld Group where the Group controls 90% or more of the voting rights.
Investments
In the Company’s financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for any impairment 
in value.
Impairment
The Group evaluates its investments for financial impairment where events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such 
assets may not be fully recoverable. When such evaluations indicate that the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable value, 
an impairment in value is recorded.
Deferred taxation
The charge for taxation based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation 
and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Company
Following the adoption of FRS 25, financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity (i.e. forming part of shareholders’ 
funds) only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions:
a) they include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets 
or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company; and
b) where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no 
obligation to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the 
Company’s exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
79
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 25 Accounting Policies continued
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so 
classified takes the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share 
capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Share-Based Payment Transactions
The share options programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of options granted is 
recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread 
over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of the options granted is 
measured using an evaluation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The amount 
recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares options that vest except where forfeiture is due only to 
share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Shares appreciation rights are also granted by the Company to employees. The fair value of the amount payable to the employee is 
recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities. The fair value is initially measured at grant date and spread over 
the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment. The fair value of the share appreciation rights is 
measured based on an option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. 
The liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date and any changes in fair value recognised in profit and 
loss spread equally over the vesting period.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it recognises an increase in the cost of 
investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its subsidiary’s financial 
statements with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity. Amounts recharged to or reimbursed by the subsidiary are 
recognised as a reduction in the cost of investment in subsidiary.
Own Shares Held by Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”)
Transactions of the Group sponsored EBT are included in the Group financial information. In particular, the trust’s purchase of shares 
in the Company are debited directly to equity.
26 Staff Number and Costs
The Company has no employees, however it bears total Non-Executive Directors fees of £300,000 (2008: £278,000). See pages 34 to 
38 for details of Directors emoluments.
27 Fixed Asset Investments
          Share in Group  
          undertaking 
Company          £000
Balance at 25 December 2008         131,349
Additions          449
Balance at 31 December 2009         131,798
Net book value
At 25 December 2008          131,349
At 31 December 2009          131,798
For details of £449,000 addition to investment see Note 30.
80
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued 81
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
27 Fixed Asset Investments continued
  Country of incorporation Principal activity Class  % of shares held
Subsidiary undertakings
Directly Held
Augustus 1 Limited  England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Indirectly Held
Augustus 2 Limited  England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Holdings Limited  England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cine-UK Limited  England and Wales Cinema operation Ordinary 100
Cineworld Cinemas Holdings Limited  England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Cinemas Limited  England and Wales Holding company  Ordinary 100 
   and cinema operation
Cineworld Finance Limited  England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Cineworld Estates Limited  England and Wales Cinema property leasing Ordinary 100
Cineworld South East Cinemas Limited  England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Exhibition Limited  England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Gallery Holdings Limited  England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
    “A” Ordinary 100
    Preference 100
Gallery Cinemas Limited  England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Slough Movie Centre Limited  England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Adelphi-Carlton Limited  Eire Cinema operation Ordinary 100
Cineworld Cinema Properties Limited  England and Wales Property company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Elite Pictures Theatre 
(Nottingham) Limited  England and Wales Non-trading Ordinary 98.2
    Cum 5% Pref 99.6
Classic Cinemas Limited  England and Wales Retail services company Ordinary 100
Computicket Limited  England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Digital Cinema Media Limited  England and Wales Screen advertising Ordinary 50
28 Debtors
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £'000 £'000
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings     105,667 93,667
      105,667 93,667
29 Creditors: Amount Falling Due Within One Year
      31 December 25 December 
      2009 2008 
      £'000 £'000
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings      (54,174) (37,296)
Corporation tax payable      (37) (218)
      (54,211) (37,514) 82
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
30 Share Capital and Reserves
     Share  
    Share premium Profit and 
    capital account loss account Total 
    £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
At 25 December 2008    1,417 171,354 17,737 190,508
Profit for the period     – – 10,763 10,763
Dividends paid during the year     – – (13,463) (13,463)
Equity instruments granted     – – 449 449
At 31 December 2009    1,417 171,354 15,486 188,257
Share premium is stated net of share issue costs.
Equity instruments granted of £449,000 represents the fair value of share options granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings. 
There is a corresponding increase in investments, see Note 27.
This element of the profit and loss reserve is not distributable.
31 Share-Based Payments
See Note 17 of the Group financial statements.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued 83
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Shareholder Information
Directors
Anthony Bloom (Non-Executive Director and Chairman)
Stephen Wiener (Chief Executive Officer)
Richard Jones (Chief Financial Officer)
David Maloney (Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director)
Thomas McGrath (Non-Executive Director)
Alan Roux (Non-Executive Director)
Matthew Tooth (Non-Executive Director)
Peter Williams (Non-Executive Director)
Head Office
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road
Chiswick
London W4 5PY
Telephone Number
020 8987 5000
Website
www.cineworld.co.uk
www.cineworldplc.com
Place of Incorporation
England and Wales
Company Number
Registered Number: 5212407
Registrar
Capita Registrars Limited
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield HD8 0GA
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
8 Salisbury Square
London EC4Y 8BB
Final Dividend – 2009
Announcement 11 March 2010
Ex dividend 9 June 2010
Record date 11 June 2010
Payment date 7 July 2010
Joint Brokers
JP Morgan Cazenove Ltd
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA
Evolution Securities Limited
100 Wood Street
London EC2V 7AN
Legal Advisors to the Company
Olswang
90 High Holborn
London WC1V 6XX
Public Relations Advisors
M: Communications
1 Ropemaker Street
Ninth Floor
London EC2Y 9HT
Registered Office
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road
Chiswick
London W4 5PY 84
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes Business Review 
Highlights 2009 01
A Real Cinema Experience 02
Chairman’s Statement 04
Strategy and Market Overview 06
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
  Officers’ Review 08
Risks and Uncertainties 16
Corporate Responsibility 18
 
Governance 
Board of Directors 22
Directors’ Report 24
Corporate Governance Statement 29
Directors’ Remuneration Report 34
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in 
  respect of the Annual Report and the  
  Financial Statements 39
Independent Auditors’ Report to the  
  Members of Cineworld Group plc 40
 
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of  
  Comprehensive Income 41
Consolidated Statement of  
  Financial Position 42
Consolidated Statement of Changes  
  in Equity 43
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 44
Notes to the Consolidated  
  Financial Statements 45
Company Balance Sheet 77
Company Reconciliation of Movements in  
  Shareholders’ Funds 78
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 79
Shareholder Information 83 Cineworld Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Cineworld Group plc
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road
Chiswick
London W4 5PY
020 8987 5000
www.cineworld.com
www.cineworldplc.com
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
