 Cineworld Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Cineworld Group plc
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road
Chiswick
London W4 5PY
020 8987 5000
www.cineworld.com
www.cineworldplc.com
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Cineworld is one  
of the UK’s leading  
cinema groups
Business Review 
Highlights 2010 01
A Real Cinema Experience 02
Chairman’s Statement 04
Our Strategy 06
The Business Model 07
UK and Ireland Market Overview 07
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
Officers’ Review 08
Risks and Uncertainties 16
Corporate Responsibility 19
 
Governance 
Directors’ Biographies 24
Directors’ Report 26
Corporate Governance Statement 31
Directors’ Remuneration Report 36
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities  
in respect of the Annual Report and  
the Financial Statements 41
Independent Auditor’s Report to the  
Members of Cineworld Group plc 42
 
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of  
Comprehensive Income 43
Consolidated Statement of  
Financial Position 44
Consolidated Statement of  
Changes in Equity 45
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 46
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 47
Company Balance Sheet 78
Company Reconciliation of Movements  
in Shareholders’ Funds 79
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 80
Shareholder Information 84 09 333.4
09 327.1
10
09
342.8
55.7
09 30.8
09 30.3
10
09
30.4
55.7
09 6.8
10 7.1
09 10.0
10 10.5
09 55.7
09 54.6
10
09
59.0
55.7
09 16.2
10 18.1
01
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Highlights
2010
For comparability purposes all of the review below is on a 52 week to  
52 week basis. A review against the prior year statutory reported results 
(53 week basis) is included in the Financial Performance section of  
this statement.
Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”)
Group revenue 
£m
Profit before tax 
£m
Proposed final dividend 
pence
Proposed full year dividend 
pence
EBITDA* 
£m
Adjusted pro-forma diluted EPS 
pence
+4.8% +8.1%
+0.3% +11.7%
  Reported 53 weeks
  Reported 53 weeks
  Reported 53 weeks
*  EBITDA is defined as operating profit before depreciation, impairments, reversals of impairments and amortisation, 
onerous lease and other non-recurring or non-cash property charges, transaction and reorganisation costs
+5.0%
Other Key Highlights
Number 1 cinema operator in the UK for 2010 with a box office market •	
share of 26.2% (Rentrak/EDI);
Box office up 4.1% at £235.8m against 2009; •	
Admissions 2.1% lower than 2009 at 47 .2m; •	
Average ticket price per admission up 5.9% to £4.99 (2009: £4.71) with •	
average retail spend per person holding firm at £1.73;
Screen advertising revenues up almost 21%; •	
Strong progress on digital conversion with over 50% of the estate now •	
using digital projectors;
Roll out of a new site at The O2 and deals signed for sites at the •	
Wembley City retail development and at Aldershot and Leigh;
Credit approvals received from a banking group for a new facility of •	
£170m to finance future expansion and other opportunities. A Real Cinema 
Experience
tH E st At E 
Of Pl Ay
Cineworld Group was founded in 1995 
and is now one of the leading cinema 
groups in the UK and Ireland. We are 
dedicated to ensuring that every visit 
is memorable – unparalleled quality 
of service, great shows, comfortable 
seating and tempting retail offers.
With 78 cinemas, Cineworld offers a 
range of exceptional venues for 
corporate or private events. Our state-
of-the-art digital projection facilities 
can display any type of media, from 
PowerPoint presentations to feature 
films. With stadium seating and 
capacity ranging from 15 to over 500 
seats, Cineworld can offer the perfect 
size venue for every audience.
We continue to lead the way in digital 
and 3D technology. Cineworld 
currently has one of the largest 
number of digital projectors across 
the UK – showcasing 3D, live sport, 
live opera, interactive gaming or 
corporate presentations. 
Our theatres offer excellent facilities 
and most have full disabled access.
26.2%
UK Box office share
+4.8%
Revenue increase 2009–2010
4/10
4 out of top 10 grossing cinemas 
were Cineworld cinemas
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
02 801
screens
+1m
Visits to Cineworld.com 
per week
No.1
In 2010 Cineworld became  
the UK market leader
> 1/ 4m
Unlimited customer membership
78
cinemas
03
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 04
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Chairman’s 
statement
It gives me much satisfaction to report another 
successful year of trading for the Group. The 
business has continued to deliver healthy 
growth in revenues and profits, and strong 
cash generation over the year. This good 
performance is despite a trading environment 
impacted by the football World Cup in June 
2010 and the heavy snowfalls across the 
whole country during December 2010.
In view of this performance, the Group is 
able to propose a 5% increase in the full year 
dividend for 2010 to 10.5p, which follows the 
increase declared last year.
Considerable progress was made in 2010. 
The increase in numbers of 3D films has been 
widely publicised and cinema attendances for 
3D films supported our strong performance. 
Our advertising business, Digital Cinema 
Media Limited (“DCM”), made further progress 
in the market as advertising spend showed 
good levels of recovery. We also continued 
to grow other revenue streams such as 
screening alternative content (including live 3D 
events such as the Six Nations rugby and the 
football World Cup) and providing venues for 
conferencing and other similar uses.
On 14 June, we announced our partnership 
with Arts Alliance Media (“AAM”) which will 
lead to the roll out of digital projection facilities 
across the remainder of our cinema estate. It is 
an attractive deal which enables us to recoup a 
substantial proportion of our anticipated £40m 
investment as we earn the financial benefits 
from digital programming and 3D.
On 25 June, we signed a 25 year lease to 
operate the multiplex cinema at The O2 in 
London. The O2 is a major landmark and 
significantly raises our profile. We also 
announced an agreement for a 25 year lease 
for a new nine screen cinema at the Wembley 
City retail and leisure development, which is 
scheduled to open in 2013.
We remain committed to improving our 
operations through continual enhancement of 
the customer service and experience at our 
cinemas. Recent work carried out in our cinema 
in Wandsworth, London, to create a new look 
and feel for our customers, is a prime example.
In 2010, we achieved a milestone by becoming 
the largest cinema operator in the UK by total 
box office. This is a notable advancement 
over the previous year and demonstrates 
the success of our efforts to increase the 
competitiveness of our film and retail offers, 
our pricing and the comfort and accessibility of 
our cinemas.
The Blackstone Group sold its remaining 20.1% 
shareholding on 16 November 2010 through a 
placing which was well supported by a number 
of institutional investors. The Blackstone Group 
has been an excellent partner and has made 
a significant contribution to the Group over the 
last six years. Alan Roux left the Board following 
the divestment of the Blackstone holding 
and I would like to thank him for his valuable 
contribution to the business. Matthew Tooth, 
also originally appointed by the Blackstone 
Group, has agreed to remain on the Board.
I would also like to welcome two new members 
of the Board: Martina King and Rick Senat, who 
both joined on 2 July 2010 as independent 
Non-Executive Directors. They bring with them a 
wealth of experience in areas particularly relevant 
to Cineworld’s activities, and have already made 
a significant contribution to the business.
I am pleased to report that terms and 
conditions for a new £170 million, five year 
facility have recently been negotiated with a 
group of banks and which is expected to be 
signed in the near future. This will provide the 
Group with a stable financial platform to enable 
it to carry out its expansion plans.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
our management and our employees for their 
accomplishments and hard work. We cannot 
rest on our laurels because the economic and 
financial outlook remains challenging. The Group, 
however, is in a strong financial and competitive 
position and possesses a very able management 
team and committed staff. This gives me full 
confidence in our ability to continue to deliver 
value to our shareholders in the future. It 
remains a pleasure to be associated with such  
a successful and well run business.
Anthony Bloom
Chairman
10 March 2011
In 2010, we achieved a milestone by 
becoming the largest cinema operator  
in the UK by total box office. 
Anthony Bloom
Chairman 05
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Wandsworth 
flagship
A brighter, lively, more 
informative environment has 
resulted from the recent 
refurbishment of Cineworld’s 
Wandsworth cinema. 
Completed in October 
2010, the refurbishment 
and rebrand has created a 
friendly, relaxing atmosphere 
in the foyer. The new look 
cinema incorporates fresh 
designs that zone key areas 
for the customer. If they 
choose, customers can 
chill-out in the new relax 
zone while they watch trailers 
of upcoming films or even 
better still they can skip the 
queues and use the new and 
improved fast ticket zones.
According to General 
Manager, Henock Osei-Kissi, 
the redesign has improved 
the whole experience for 
customers. Results to date 
have been good with staff 
enjoying the positive feedback 
from customers who are 
responding well to the more 
welcoming environment.
We will be bringing  
a new friendly look  
to our cinemas in 2011
for more information visit 
www.cineworldplc.com 06
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Our strategy 
The Group’s primary objective is to consolidate and advance its position as one of the leading 
cinema businesses in the UK and Ireland in terms of sites, screens and admissions and to 
improve its operating margins, thereby growing shareholder value. In order to achieve this,  
the Group will continue to:
Our strategy In action t he future
Develop and improve its offer 
to its customers
We provide the widest range 
of films of any of the major UK 
exhibitors. This is facilitated by a 
high average number of screens 
per cinema. 
We will continue to grow our 
strong knowledge of films and 
good relationships with film 
distributors.
We will seek to improve our 
understanding of our customers 
and their interests.
Grow box office revenues Our bargain day and concession 
prices have been successful 
in reaching out to the value 
segment of the market.
Our success in screening 3D with 
the associated price premium.
We have developed strategic 
partnerships with household 
names.
Our Unlimited programme has in 
excess of 250,000 subscribers.
We will continue to use pricing to 
improve capacity utilisation and 
to encourage cinema-going.
We will continue to convert to 
digital to maximise our flexibility 
in screenings.
We will aim to increase the 
number of customers on our 
Unlimited programme.
Increase retail spend per 
customer
Our success in retail promotions 
from our staple Combo range to 
promotions targeted to customer 
types or linked to film activity.
We will continue to develop our 
product ranges and selected 
promotions that appeal to 
different consumer groups.
Increase other revenue streams Our screen advertising business, 
DCM, has made good progress 
in attracting a wider range of 
advertisers.
By increasing our digital estate 
we aim to improve our offer to 
advertisers.
Grow the estate through 
selective new openings, 
expansions and acquisitions
In 2010, we acquired the cinema 
at The O2 centre, London and 
signed a deal for a cinema at the 
new Wembley city development 
to open in 2013.
We will open a cinema at Leigh, 
outside Manchester at the end 
of 2011.
Continue to develop relationships 
with developers.
Identify untapped smaller 
markets which may sustain 
smaller multiplexes.
Continue to keep abreast of 
opportunities within the cinema 
industry at home and overseas.
l ook to expand into 
complementary markets
We have increased the range 
of alternative content screened 
this year and started to develop 
venue hire as a revenue stream.
We will further develop both 
propositions and seek to identify 
further opportunities and 
improve capacity utilisation at 
our cinemas.
Use technology to improve our 
customers’ experience and the 
efficiency of our operations
In June 2010 we announced our 
partnership with AAM which 
will lead to roll out of digital 
projection facilities across the 
remainder of our cinema estate.
By increasing our digital estate 
we aim to improve efficiencies 
in the delivery of film and other 
content to provide a wider 
choice for our customers and 
advertisers.
We will develop our IT 
infrastructure to increase our 
capability to handle the widening 
range of customer offers and to 
understand our customers better 
and their requirements. 07
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
t he Business 
Model
The key driver of our business is customers 
visiting our cinemas to see feature films 
(produced by the film studios). With 75 of 
our 78 cinemas being multiplex, we are able 
to show a broad range of films. The number 
of visits (“admissions”) multiplied by the net 
average entrance price (“ticket price”) gives the 
box office revenue.
Admissions, in turn, drive the two other main 
income sources which are:
 Retail sales to our customers comprising  y
principally food and drink; and
Revenue from advertisements shown on   y
our screens prior to feature presentations.
The principal direct costs to the business 
are film rental paid to the film distributors 
and the costs of food and drink sold paid to 
suppliers. The main cinema operating costs 
are staff salaries and wages, energy, repairs 
and maintenance and property related costs. 
Cinema sites are acquired on leaseholds of 
typically 25 years and property related costs 
consist of rent, rates and service charges.
We aim to promote customer admissions by 
offering clean, comfortable, well-run facilities in 
well sited locations, which makes cinema going 
a pleasurable experience and encourages more 
frequent return visits. We seek to complement 
this by optimising the use of auditorium space, 
providing more screens to show a wide choice  
of films to appeal to a variety of customer  
groups and the provision of an enhanced  
range of products and services.
The UK/Ireland cinema market continues to 
be dominated by three major UK exhibitors, 
Cineworld, Odeon UCI, and Vue. In total they 
account for over 70% of the total market 
box office and provide over 60% of the total 
screens in the UK. Cineworld is listed on the 
London Stock Exchange, while Odeon UCI and 
Vue are both privately owned groups.
The rest of the market is represented by 
smaller multiplex operators and independents 
which tend to operate non-multiplex cinemas 
(less than five screens). Of the three major 
chains, Cineworld has the smallest presence  
in Ireland with one, albeit significant, cinema  
in Dublin, being the fifth biggest cinema in  
UK/Ireland in 2010 by gross box office 
(Rentrak/EDI).
The market situation has remained largely 
constant for a number of years though the 
ownership of Vue changed in late 2010. There 
are significant barriers to entry, both through 
acquisition and organically. Competition law  
UK and 
Ireland Market 
Overview
limits the potential scope for major consolidation 
in the industry. The rate of new cinema openings 
has been falling in recent years, partly due to 
the limited number of new retail and leisure 
development opportunities and the long time  
to bring developments to fruition. This has  
been exacerbated more recently by reduced 
availability of funding for developers in the 
present financial climate, though confidence  
has started to improve.
Gross box office revenue in UK/Ireland 
increased 2.7% to £1.08bn (Rentrak/EDI) 
whilst UK admissions remained stable at 
c169m (CEA) demonstrating the resilience 
of cinema in the economic and consumer 
environment. The low price of going to the 
cinema compared to other forms of leisure and 
the desire for escapism have remained key 
attractions. Underpinning the overall success 
in 2010 was the strong line-up of films, the 
ongoing conversion to digital and the growth in 
the number of films released in the 3D format, 
up from 13 in 2009 to 25 in 2010 with over 30 
anticipated in 2011.
sales and  
Marketing Delivery
Admissions and  
Revenues
“A Great Cinema 
Experience”
t he Customer
High Quality  
of Retail Offer
High Quality  
of f ilm Offer
High Quality  
of Venue
Repeat visits
Operational Delivery 08
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Chief Executive 
and Chief 
f inancial 
Officers’ 
Review
stephen Wiener
Chief Executive Officer
Richard Jones
Chief Financial Officer
Performance Overview
For comparability purposes all of the review 
discussion below is on a 52 week to 52 
week basis.
In the 52 week financial year box office revenue 
increased 4.1% to £235.8m (2009: £226.5m), 
representing a box office market share in the 
UK and Ireland of 24.6% (2009: 23.9%). The 
Group’s admissions were 1.0m, 2.1% lower 
than the prior year. Average ticket price per 
admission increased by 5.9% to £4.99 (2009: 
£4.71). Retail spend per person increased by 
1p to £1.73 (2009: £1.72).
Cineworld’s success in 2010 was underpinned 
by a strong film line up with an increased 
number of 3D films (25 films compared with 
13 in 2009). Average ticket prices were higher 
because of modest general price increases 
and the benefit of the price uplift from 3D 
admissions. Almost 28.0% of market box 
office was from 3D for the full year, up from 
approximately 12.0% in 2009.
By the end of 2010, Cineworld had become the 
number one cinema operator in the UK for the 
period in terms of UK box office (Rentrak/EDI) 
with a market share of 26.2%.
Box Office
A combination of modest price increases, 
the premium on 3D performances and stable 
admissions in the year enabled Cineworld’s 
box office to increase 4.1% to £235.8m. 
Average ticket price per admission increased 
5.9% to £4.99 (2009: £4.71). The increase 
was partly aided by the premium pricing on 
3D performances. The average ticket price 
excluding VAT of 3D is in excess of £6.10 
compared to 2D of almost £4.50. Cineworld 
nevertheless continues to offer its customers 
compelling value with the lowest average ticket 
price of any of the major UK cinema groups.
There were strong performances in the year 
from a number of core blockbusters which 
included “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows 
Part 1”, “Inception”, “Sex and the City 2”, 
“The Twilight Saga: Eclipse” and “Iron Man 
2”. All these films performed above or in line 
with industry expectations. The year also saw 
the continued rise of 3D films with 25 films 
released in 3D, the most notable being “Toy 
Story 3” (the highest grossing film of the year 
and the second highest grossing film of all 
time in the UK), “Alice in Wonderland”, “Shrek 
Forever After”, and “Clash of the Titans”.
In line with our stated strategy, we continued 
to offer customers the broadest range of 
films on the market. There were a number of 
smaller and mid range films which performed 
well during the year including “Streetdance 
3D”, “The Prince of Persia: The Sands of 
Time”, “Kick Ass” and “The Tourist” where we 
achieved higher individual market shares than 
our overall market average. We also remained 
the biggest exhibitor of Bollywood films in the 
UK with a market share in excess of 50%. We 
remained the only major chain to screen
Tamil language films such as “Endhiran: The 
Robot”, where we had an 87% market share. 
In addition, we showcased a series of other 
successful foreign language films such as 
the trilogy of films “The Girl with the Dragon 
Tattoo”, “The Girl Who Played with Fire” and 
“The Girl Who Kicked the Hornets’ Nest” which 
contributed favourably to our full year results.
We continued to make good progress during 
the year in developing our alternative content 
offering which has been made possible by 
our digital conversion. The notable events 
of the year included the 25th Anniversary 
shows of Les Miserables from The O2, the 
Big 4 Live (from Sofia) and Bon Jovi and Green 
Day concerts. Furthermore the successful 
broadcast of two live sporting events in 3D, 
namely the Six Nations Rugby and the latter 
stages of the football World Cup showed the 
possibility of screening such live events and 
proved that it was technically and logistically 
possible to exhibit such events from around 
the world. In the field of the performing arts, 
we screened a series of live shows from the 
New York Metropolitan Opera, the National 
Theatre and Glyndebourne, all of which were 
well attended. Alternative content is growing, 
but is currently still a niche offer and therefore 
a small contributor to revenues compared 
with film.
Retail
It is pleasing to report that net retail spend 
per person held firm in 2010 at £1.73 (2009: 
£1.72). This is a reflection of the competitive 
offers and strength of our promotions. 
Cineworld’s success in 2010 was 
underpinned by a strong film line-up 
with an increased number of 3D films. 09
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
As expected, our customers have become more 
value conscious given the tough economic 
backdrop, and we responded with a number of 
value initiatives which have been successful.
We also continued to invest in new equipment 
such as the roll out of new hot dog machines, 
enabling faster service and reduced wastage, 
and expanded the number of coffee machines 
to meet growing demand. The retail stand at 
Wandsworth was redesigned towards the end 
of the year, as part of a new design concept 
trialed at the cinema.
As previously reported, we renewed long-term 
arrangements with Coca Cola in the first 
quarter and the continuation of our partnership 
with this recognised brand has helped us to 
maintain the value of our overall drinks offer.
Advertising
Trading at Digital Cinema Media Limited 
(“DCM”), our joint venture screen advertising 
business formed in July 2008, improved 
markedly with screen advertising revenues 
rising almost 21% against the previous period. 
DCM’s primary function is to sell advertising 
time on cinema screens on behalf of Cineworld 
and its other clients. It also engages in 
related promotional work between advertisers 
and cinemas. The increase in revenues 
generated for Cineworld against the previous 
period largely reflected the improvements in 
confidence amongst advertisers in general 
which helped to increase overall levels of 
demand. The management team at DCM 
has been driving operational efficiencies and 
effectiveness so that the business is well 
positioned to capitalise on the increased 
flexibility offered to advertisers via the digital 
format as well as on any improvements in the 
overall advertising market.
A major success for DCM was winning  
the account to provide screen advertising 
to the Vue Cinema circuit with effect from 
1 January 2011.
Since the year end Martin Bowley, Managing 
Director of DCM has resigned and a 
replacement is being sought.
Investment in Digital
At the end of December 2010, Cineworld 
had one of the largest digital estates of any 
cinema operator in the UK. Digital projection 
is an important part of our strategy which 
enables the screening of films (2D and 3D) and 
other content using digital media. During the 
first quarter of 2010 we installed 102 digital 
projectors and, by the end of January 2011, we 
had completed the installation of a further 150 
digital projectors, thereby resulting in over 50% 
of our estate having digital projectors.
On 14 June 2010, we announced our 
agreement with Arts Alliance Media (“AAM”) 
to roll out digital projection facilities across 
the remainder of our cinema estate. The deal 
will transform Cineworld and will enable us to 
convert our estate to fully digital within three 
years. The roll out will cost in the region of 
£25m, in addition to the c£15m already spent 
to date.
Under the AAM deal, Cineworld acquires the 
digital projectors directly from a third party 
and retains full control over the timing of 
their purchase and over their installation and 
operation. Cineworld benefits from AAM’s 
systems, technical capabilities and utilising 
AAM’s Virtual Print Fee (“VPF”) agreements 
with film distributors and exhibitors. The VPF 
deal covers a ten year period during which 
AAM collect VPFs from film studios on behalf 
of Cineworld the first time a film is played in 
digital on a screen rather than in 35mm. VPFs 
are, for up to ten years, discounted from the 
cost Cineworld pays for film rental and reflects 
the cost savings to the studios of the move to 
digital. These discounts are expected to refund 
a substantial proportion of the total conversion 
cost of c£40m over a 7–10 year period before 
taking into account the associated benefits of 
3D and digital.
Unlimited Card Programme
Our unique subscription service, Unlimited, 
offers a competitive value proposition to our 
customers. The service offers customers the 
opportunity to pay a fixed monthly (or annual) 
subscription which enables them to watch 
as many 2D films at our cinemas as they 
wish. Cineworld prides itself on being the only 
cinema operator in the UK and Ireland to offer 
this service which increased its membership 
Our alternative content 
offering included the 25th 
Anniversary shows of Les 
Miserables from The O2, 
the Big 4 Live (from Sofia) 
and Bon Jovi and Green 
Day concerts.
  Pro rated  
 52 week 52 week 53 week  
 period ended period ended period ended  
 30 December 31 December 31 December  
 2010 2009 2009 
 total Total Total
Admissions 47.2m 48.2m 49.1m
 £m £m £m
Box office 235.8 226.5 230.9
Retail 81.6 82.8 84.4
Other 25.4 17.8 18.1
Total revenue 342.8 327.1 333.4
Cineworld delivered  
a strong financial 
performance for the year. 10
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
further during the year. The service is one 
of the pillars which underpin our strategy of 
growing other revenues and admissions. It 
brings to the Group the financial benefits of 
regular subscription income reducing the level 
of fluctuation in our revenues. It also brings 
operational benefits by encouraging repeat 
visits, often at off-peak times. This, in turn, 
enables us to improve capacity utilisation at 
our cinemas, provide more retail opportunities 
and introduce a wider range of films than our 
competitors. As a result, we continued to enjoy 
significant market share among the smaller, 
less mainstream films in 2010.
Initiatives and Developments
Activity on our consumer website increased 
in the year, recording almost 54m visits 
which put it comfortably in the top 50 most 
visited websites in the UK (as reported in the 
IMRG Experian Hitwise Hit Shops List). The 
“My Cineworld” membership on the website 
continued its expansion with a total database 
of over 500,000 members. The growth of this 
portal is an important part of our strategy to 
engage further with our customers and, in turn, 
should enable us to improve our customer 
retention and to encourage more frequent 
visits to our cinemas. We extended our mobile 
enabled web booking service by being the first 
UK cinema chain in 2010 to launch an app for 
the iPhone.
Our corporate website was upgraded and 
relaunched in May 2010 as part of our plan 
to introduce electronic communications with 
our shareholders which went live towards the 
end of the year thereby helping to reduce our 
environmental impact.
Our partnership with Tesco through its Clubcard 
programme continued to flourish, aided by its TV 
advertising to promote the ticket offer, helping to 
raise Cineworld’s brand profile nationally.
In addition, we have started to focus on 
improving utilisation of cinemas at off peak 
times particularly through the hire of individual 
auditoriums. We continue to make progress 
in offering our cinemas as venues for other 
purposes from corporate conferences and 
private film hires, through to educational 
meetings and religious gatherings on 
Sunday mornings.
Our People
Attracting, developing and retaining talented 
staff is important for our business. It is vital for 
our continued success that we encourage our 
employees’ personal development and career 
progression. A new performance management 
process was successfully trialled in 2010 
and was rolled out to the organisation at the 
start of 2011. It involved all senior and line 
managers with the aim of providing meaningful 
employees’ objective setting and structured 
performance reviews. By using this framework 
we aim to increase further the high proportion 
of cinema management and supervisory 
positions which are held by internally promoted 
employees, thereby bringing operational 
and financial benefits to the Group. The new 
recruitment website, launched in early 2010, 
has produced positive feedback from cinema 
management. The website has proven to be a 
useful tool for improving the efficiency of the 
candidate selection process and ultimately 
improved staff retention.
Expansion
We continue to look for opportunities to expand 
our estate. On 25 June we acquired the trade 
and assets of the multiplex cinema at The O2 
in London and agreed a 25 year lease with 
the Waterfront Limited Partnership, part of 
the Anschutz Entertainment Group (“AEG”), to 
operate it. The O2 is the world’s most popular 
music venue by ticket sales (Source: Pollstar 
listed ticket sales) and the cinema is an 11 
screen multiplex seating a total of 2,844 
people with gross box office revenues of £4.1 
million in 2009 (source: Rentrak/EDI). On 24 
May we announced an agreement for a 25 
year lease for a new nine screen cinema at the 
Wembley City retail and leisure development 
which will seat 1,800 people in total and which 
is scheduled to open in 2013.
In respect of 2011, we have plans to open 
a seven screen cinema in Leigh towards the 
end of the year and will commence fit out of a 
seven screen cinema in Aldershot (planned for 
opening in the first quarter of 2012). Whilst the 
uncertainty over development financing and 
timing of new projects continues, we have seen 
a rise in confidence in the property market 
during the year with renewed interest in existing 
proposals as well as new plans and ideas being 
tabled. Expansion remains a key strategic 
priority for the Group over the medium term 
Chief Executive 
and Chief 
f inancial 
Officers’ 
Review 
continued 11
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Alternative 
content and 
conferencing
With some unique features to 
offer the corporate market, 
the Cineworld cinema in 
The O2 has already started 
building its reputation as 
a specialist conference 
venue as well as a cinema. 
According to Marketing 
Manager, Alice Serras, its 
11 digital state-of-the-art 
screens, including the Sky 
Superscreen -the largest 
in Europe – combined with 
Cineworld’s customer service 
credentials have helped it 
start to compete successfully 
in this highly competitive 
market. Events to date have 
included regional conferences 
from businesses based in 
Canary Wharf and hosting 
premieres for major theatrical 
releases.
for more information visit 
www.cineworldplc.com
and we are ensuring that we have the financial 
capability, through a new increased bank 
facility, to pursue such opportunities. We are 
working with well known retail names on new 
developments as well as reviewing potential 
acquisition opportunities.
At 30 December 2010, the Group had increased 
its estate to 78 cinemas with 801 screens.
Key t rends and f actors Potentially Affecting 
the f uture
The future success of the Group in 2011 will 
remain principally dependent on the strength 
of the film releases during the year. Sequels 
and franchises will continue to contribute 
a significant number of the higher profile 
blockbuster films. Many such films outperform 
the original film or concept, so the film studios 
will continue to look to capitalise on proven 
successful formulae. The overall film release 
programme for 2011 is known and there is a 
strong line up of potential blockbusters.
The major product for the cinema industry will 
remain 2D films, though 3D films and other 
content will continue to gain popularity as 
more content is provided digitally. Our plans 
for digital mirror these trends and include 
converting our entire estate to digital which 
will provide greater flexibility in screening 
arrangements.
The successful live 
screening of certain high 
profile rugby and football 
events in 3D in 2010 has 
given us confidence to 
widen our horizons. Cineworld O2 
Cineworld’s 
premier site
Located in the prestigious 
O2 arena, the newly acquired 
Cineworld O2 cinema is now a 
Cineworld flagship venue. The 
General Manager has focused 
on staff training and recruited 
a new management team to 
bring customer services up to 
Cineworld’s exacting standards 
and meet the high level of 
customer’s expectation from 
such an impressive venue. 
Today the Cineworld sparkle 
is evident. Staff are proud of 
their venue and the “mystery 
shopper” scores were some 
of the highest in the Group in 
December 2010. Admissions 
have been growing and in 
February 2011 it successfully 
hosted the opening event of 
Justin Bieber’s first Motion 
Picture – “Never Say Never”. 
for more information visit 
www.cineworldplc.com
12
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
beyond traditional art-based content such 
as plays, opera and concerts. The source of 
alternative content is currently fragmented. 
Stabilisation and consolidation amongst 
suppliers should increase the range of content, 
improve the operational delivery and result in 
financial savings. Revenues from alternative 
content are anticipated to grow further, albeit 
from a small base.
We have seen increased demand from 
advertisers which have benefited our screen 
advertising revenues in 2010 and anticipate that 
demand in the advertising industry in general will 
continue to hold up, supported by the greater 
flexibility offered by our conversion to digital.
In 2010 there were 25 3D films released. In 
2011 there are over 30 3D films scheduled for 
release and studios are reportedly planning to 
convert some older film titles to 3D as well.
Customers have been prepared to pay higher 
ticket prices to see 3D films, even though 
certain sections of the customer base prefer 
to see 2D for cost reasons. Higher prices for 
3D films are expected to continue and with 
an increasing number of 3D films planned for 
release, should support further revenue growth.
Within the area of alternative content, the 
successful live screening of certain high profile 
rugby and football events in 3D in 2010 has 
given us confidence to widen our horizons 
The major element of  
other revenue is screen 
advertising revenue which 
reported strong growth  
of almost 21.0%, a reflection 
of the recovery in 
advertising demand.
Chief Executive 
and Chief 
f inancial 
Officers’ 
Review 
continued 13
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
We aim to deliver the best 
experience to O2 from 
fresh popcorn to state- 
of-the-art 3D screens.
As reported last year, we continued to enjoy 
strong mid week business, particularly in 
conjunction with “Bargain Tuesdays” and 
“Orange Wednesdays” promotions which 
demonstrates that customers are seeking 
greater value in the current economic climate.
Plans for new cinemas will remain less certain 
until finance for developers becomes more 
readily available. Nevertheless we remain 
committed to expanding our business – 
through the development of complementary 
activities, opening more cinemas and through 
the acquisition of other cinema portfolios, 
facilitated by our strong financial position.
Cineworld will continue to offer a highly 
compelling choice within the wider range of 
entertainment and leisure activities. We believe 
going to the cinema remains one of the best 
value forms of popular entertainment and 
will continue to attract audiences who seek 
quality film product and the immersive viewing 
experience that remains unmatched by any 
other media.
Revenues
Total revenue for 2010 was £342.8m a rise 
of 4.8% on the prior period (2009: £327.1m) 
or a 2.8% rise on a reported 53 week basis 
for 2009.
As a result of strong film product, we enjoyed 
excellent trading during the period. Box office 
revenue was 4.1% higher at £235.8m (2009: 
£226.5m) though admissions were 2.1% lower. 
Compared to the reported 53 week basis for 
2009, box office revenue was 2.1% higher than 
2009 on 3.9% less admissions.
Retail sales for the year were 1.4% lower at 
£81.6m (2009: £82.8m) or 3.2% lower against 
f inancial Performance
  Pro rated  
 52 week 52 week 53 week 
 period ended period ended period ended 
 30 December 31 December 31 December 
 2010 2009 2009 
 total Total Total
Admissions 47.2m 48.2m 49.1m
 £m £m £m
Box office 235.8 226.5 230.9
Retail 81.6 82.8 84.4
Other 25.4 17.8 18.1
Total revenue 342.8 327.1 333.4
EBITDA* 59.0 54.6 55.7
Operating profit 37.1 38.9 39.6
Financial income 1.6 1.2 1.2
Financial expenses (8.2) (9.7) (9.9)
Net financing costs (6.6) (8.5) (8.7)
Share of loss from joint venture (0.1) (0.1) (0.1)
Profit on ordinary 
 activities before tax 30.4 30.3 30.8
Tax on profit on ordinary activities (9.4) (10.2) (10.4)
Profit for the period attributable to
 equity holders of the Company 21.0 20.1 20.4
*  EBITDA is defined as operating profit before depreciation, impairments, reversals of impairments and amortisation, 
onerous lease and other non-recurring or non-cash property charges, transaction and reorganisation costs. 14
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
the reported 53 week basis. The fall in retail 
sales was due to reduced admissions given 
that the sales per person held firm at £1.73 
(2009: £1.72), a satisfactory outcome given 
the challenging consumer environment.
Other revenues increased by 42.7% to £25.4m 
(2009: £17.8m). Compared to the 53 week 
reported basis for 2009 the increase was 
40.3%. The major element of other revenue 
is screen advertising revenue which reported 
strong growth of almost 21.0%, a reflection 
of the recovery in advertising demand. Other 
revenues from non screen advertising such 
as ticket bookings, theatre hires and sales 
of 3D glasses were up 75.4% mainly due to 
the change to selling 3D glasses separately 
towards the end of 2009.
EBIt DA and Operating Profit
EBITDA was up 8.1% at £59.0m against the 
2009 figure of £54.6m (5.9% higher than the 
reported 53 week basis for 2009) and was 
achieved through better customer spend levels 
and cost margins and continued management 
of operating costs. The estimated contribution 
to EBITDA from the additional week in 2009 
is approximately £1.1m and approximately 
£0.6m to operating profit. Operating profit 
at £37.1m was lower than 2009 of £38.9m 
(reported 2009: £39.6m) due to property 
related provisions and net impairments of 
£0.8m and £3.2m respectively. A provision 
of £0.8m was made during the year to cover 
potential increases in dilapidations for two 
non-trading properties, where the Group 
believed it probable that it will exit the leases, 
and this was charged to administrative 
expenses. In addition, the Group made a 
net impairment charge of £3.2m. £4.5m of 
assets was impaired at sites where the Group 
considered that the carrying values of their 
assets exceeded the present values of the 
future expected cash flows generated at those 
sites and there were also impairment reversals 
of £1.3m of assets that had been impaired in 
the past. These assets related to sites where 
the conditions supporting the improvements 
in trading were considered sustainable in 
the future.
Earnings
Overall profit on ordinary activities before tax 
was £30.4m compared with £30.3m in 2009. 
Basic earnings per share amounted to 14.8p 
and adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per 
share were 18.1p (using a normalised tax rate 
of 28.0%). This compares favourably with the 
2009 adjusted pro-forma earnings per share of 
16.2p. The weighted average number of shares 
during 2010 was 141.7m including 20,088 
shares issued during the year.
f inance Costs
The falls in interest rates in 2009 continued 
to benefit the Group in 2010, aided by the 
reduction in net debt. The interest expense in 
the year relates primarily to interest on bank 
debt. The majority of the remaining interest 
charge is non-cash interest on onerous leases, 
the pension scheme and the finance lease.
taxation
The overall tax charge was £9.4m giving an 
overall effective tax rate of 30.9% for the year 
(2009: 33.8%). The corporation tax charge 
consisted of the charge in respect of the current 
year of £8.3m and a credit of £0.6m relating 
to prior years. The balance of the tax charge of 
£1.7m principally resulted from the utilisation 
of a deferred tax asset relating to capital 
allowances (the difference between the tax 
written down value of the capital allowance and 
the net book value of the underlying assets).
Cash f low and Balance sheet
The Group continued to be strongly cash 
generative at the operating level. Total cash 
generated from operations was lower than for 
2009 (£50.7m compared to £54.6m in 2009) 
primarily due to the significantly lower trading 
levels in the weather affected December 2010 
compared with 2009 and meant much lower 
creditor levels at the end of 2010 compared 
with 2009. The recovery in trading since the 
end of the year has helped to reverse the short-
term outflow of operating cash in December 
and it will improve further in line with continued 
strong trade.
Net cash spent on capital for the year was 
£20.3m. Included in this cash expenditure was 
£9.4m in relation to the purchase of digital 
projectors (the balance of the cost of £10.5m 
was paid after the year end) and £4.2m for new 
sites including expenses for the acquisition 
of the cinema at The O2. The balance of 
other capital expenditure of £6.7m was for 
Chief Executive 
and Chief 
f inancial 
Officers’ 
Review 
continued 15
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
equipment replacement, site refurbishments 
and expenditure on various initiatives such 
as website enhancements and upgrading of 
automated ticket sales points. The high level of 
internally generated cash has funded our entire 
capital expenditure whilst repaying term debt of 
£9m and paying dividends of £14.5m.
Net debt at the end of December 2010 fell to 
£100.8m (2009: £104.3m). Net debt included 
a £2.8m liability valuation of the interest rate 
swap hedge on the bank loan (2009: £3.9m 
liability). The liability position arose because 
the fixed rate of interest payable on the swap 
was higher than the three month LIBOR rate 
receivable on the hedged portion of the loan for 
the remainder of its term.
Like the previous year, the Group remained well 
within its banking covenants and continued to 
achieve the financial targets which enabled it 
to benefit from a low margin on its bank debt of 
0.7% above three month LIBOR. Bank debt at 
the end of the year was comfortably below two 
times the EBITDA of 2010. The Group enjoys 
the security of a revolving credit facility of up 
to £30.0m (undrawn at the end of the year) as 
part of the overall bank facility which further 
enhances the Group’s overall liquidity.
Since the year end the Group has received 
commitments from a group of banks for a 
new five year facility of £170m to replace its 
existing facility which is due to expire in May 
2012. The new facility will provide the Group 
with more flexibility to finance future expansion 
plans as well as other growth opportunities. 
Documentation is being drafted between the 
Group and the participating banks and all 
parties are working to complete the process in 
the near future.
Dividends
The Directors are recommending to 
shareholders for approval a final dividend in 
respect of the period ended 30 December 
2010 of 7.1p per share, which taken together 
with the interim dividend of 3.4p per share 
paid in October 2010, gives a total dividend 
in respect of 2010 of 10.5p per share, a 0.5p 
increase on the level in 2009. Subject to 
shareholder approval, the final dividend will 
be paid on 6 July 2011 to shareholders on the 
register at 10 June 2011.
Board Changes
On 2 July 2010, Martina King and Rick Senat 
were appointed to the Board as independent 
Non-Executive Directors. Martina King was 
the first Managing Director of Yahoo! UK and 
Ireland before becoming the Managing Director 
of Yahoo! Europe. Rick Senat has sat on the 
Boards of a number of film companies and 
worked for 24 years at Warner Bros. Martina 
King and Rick Senat were also appointed 
to the Remuneration and Audit Committees 
respectively. Both Directors bring with them 
a wealth of experience in areas particularly 
relevant to Cineworld’s activities.
On 18 November 2010, Alan Roux left the Board, 
following the divestment by the Blackstone 
Group (“Blackstone”) of its 20.1% interest in 
the Group. Blackstone’s and Alan’s contribution 
have been of great value. Matthew Tooth, the 
second Blackstone appointed director, agreed 
to stay on in an independent capacity.
Current t rading and l ooking Ahead
With the improvement in the weather, the New 
Year has started well. We were pleased to see 
admissions return to levels expected for the 
time of year and have enjoyed some carry-over 
of business from the Christmas period, in 
particular with “Little Fockers” and “Gulliver’s 
Travels”. Moreover, the success of “The King’s 
Speech” has exceeded box office expectations, 
grossing over £40m in the UK to date as well 
as winning 4 Oscar awards.
A combination of strong current trading and 
long-term balance sheet stability following the 
expected refinancing provides the Group with 
attractive additional flexibility to push ahead 
with its expansion plans.
With a strong film release schedule in 2011, 
including over 30 3D films, the continued roll out 
of our digital projectors, increasing expectations 
for screen advertising and the roll out of new 
sites, we are confident of the prospects for the 
business in the forthcoming year.
stephen Wiener Richard Jones
Chief Executive Officer   Chief Financial Officer
10 March 2011 16
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Risks and 
Uncertainties
The following is a summary of the principal 
business specific risks and uncertainties 
facing the Group rather than all risks. If 
any of these risks or other unforeseen 
risks materialise, they could have a serious 
adverse effect on the Group’s business and 
its financial condition, in turn impacting upon 
the value of its securities in issue. Where 
possible and appropriate, the Group seeks to 
mitigate these risks and uncertainties. Some 
factors which may mitigate particular risks 
and uncertainties are also set out below. In 
determining whether a risk is principal or not 
regard has been taken of the Group’s risk 
register, the probability of a particular risk 
crystallising and the impact it would have if 
it did.
Availability of f ilm Content
Cinema-going in the UK is driven primarily by 
output from Hollywood, which is dominated 
by six film studios. There is a risk that these 
studios may seek to negotiate film hire terms 
less favourable to Cineworld. Such a move 
could be countered in part by Cineworld’s 
negotiating position due to its market share in 
the UK and Irish markets.
During periods where there are fewer or no 
major films to drive cinema attendance, our 
box office revenues may decline. Cineworld’s 
Unlimited card subscription service generates 
regular subscription revenues which helps to 
offset lower box office receipts during quieter 
trading periods. It is also part of Cineworld’s 
wider strategy to promote interest in a range 
of films beyond the traditional Hollywood 
blockbuster in such areas as Bollywood, other 
foreign language and small and mid-range films.
Poor f ilm scheduling
After release, the commercial success of a 
film can easily be measured by the level of box 
office revenues. There are however inherent 
risks in trying to forecast the success of a 
film due to the subjective qualities of the 
product and preferences of the customer. 
Cineworld employs a specialist team which 
focuses specifically on such matters and is 
experienced in film booking and scheduling.
Digital Conversion
Although over half of Cineworld’s projection 
facilities are now digital, a significant 
proportion remains in 35mm, as is the case 
with the whole UK cinema industry. The slow 
conversion to digital within the UK cinema 
industry is mainly due to the high costs of new 
equipment. The film studios stand to make 
significant savings from producing digital prints 
due to lower film distribution and production 
costs and there is a risk that the film studios 
will be encouraged to reduce the supply of new 
films in 35mm. This, in turn, could make 35mm 
prints more difficult to obtain and more costly to 
hire, and require conversion to happen faster.
Cineworld currently has one of the largest digital 
and 3D estates in the UK and is financially 
better placed than many other exhibitors in the 
UK to address the digital conversion issue. As 
conversion continues, the risk will reduce.
Alternative Media
Film studios may choose to release their films 
through other channels instead of primarily 
through exhibition at cinemas. The box 
office success of a film is often, however, an 
important factor in establishing its value in 
subsequent film distribution channels such as 
streaming, DVD, cable and pay television and 
the internet.
Also the film studios may seek to reduce 
the release window (the period between the 
film being released at the cinema and other 
distribution channels as mentioned above). The 
window is currently agreed at approximately 16 
weeks, to capitalise on box office awareness 
and success. Cinema exhibitors have, 
historically, mitigated this threat by refusing to 
screen films which has minimised reductions in 
the release window to date.
The existence of DVD (and video before that) 
has proven the ability of cinema to co-exist with 
alternative media. Additionally the increase in 
use of digital and 3D technology in cinemas 
should encourage the film studios to continue 
to use cinemas as the primary release channel.
Advancement of t echnology
The continuing development of existing and 
new technology (such as 3D television) may 
introduce new competitive forces for the film-
going audience. The cinema does, however, 
provide a unique social experience that to date 
cannot be matched by watching films at home.
Cinema-going in the UK  
is driven primarily by  
output from Hollywood, 
which is dominated by  
six film studios.
Cineworld has one of the largest digital 
and 3D estates in the UK and is better 
placed to address digital conversion. 17
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
f ilm Piracy
Film piracy (aided by technological advances) 
has long-term implications for the business and 
industry as it may eventually force film studios 
to invest less in films resulting in the release 
of fewer films and/or an increase in the use of 
other channels for releasing films. So far, the 
impact of piracy has been higher on alternative 
media (especially on DVD) than on cinema. 
Furthermore, it is currently not possible to 
produce a 3D pirated version of the original film 
from a portable recording device used  
in a cinema.
screen Advertising Revenue
Screen advertising accounts for a significant 
proportion of the Group’s profits and the 
level of revenues earned will be affected by 
the overall demand for advertising and the 
competitive pressures for that advertising 
spend. The formation of Digital Cinema Media 
Limited in 2008, with a joint venture partner, 
was a positive step towards taking closer 
control of future screen advertising revenues. 
The advantages of screening advertisements to 
a captive audience in cinemas and the flexibility 
of digital media to deliver more and varied 
advertising are potential opportunities  
to attract more advertisers and to generate 
higher revenues.
Poor l ocation selection
The selection of the wrong location for the 
development of a new cinema could result 
in lower than expected returns and a series 
of poor decisions on location could seriously 
impact the Group. Each potential site is 
reviewed carefully and the management team 
are experienced in the choice of location for, 
and development of, new sites.
Extreme Weather Conditions
Unusual weather patterns such as 
unseasonably warm summers or extreme 
snowfalls in winter can impact attendances at 
cinemas and, particularly where this coincides 
with major film releases, it could have a 
significant effect on revenues. In 2010, heavy 
snowfalls prevented staff and customers 
travelling to cinemas resulting in their 
temporary closure and lower admission levels.
Most of our cinemas are air conditioned and, in 
periods of extended warm weather, historically 
audience levels have returned to near normal 
seasonal levels after a while.
UK and Global Economy
The main driver of cinema-going is the film, 
although it is recognised that macro-economic 
influences may affect cinema-going and the 
level of retail spend per customer on each visit. 
With cinema being a less expensive form of 
entertainment and leisure, economic downturns 
may benefit cinemas at the expense of other 
entertainment and leisure activities.
Any reduced consumer demand may impact 
the level of advertising spend which may lead 
to reduced screen advertising revenues. In 
addition, the price of energy and foodstuffs has 
a direct impact on costs which we may not be 
able to pass on to customers.
The failure of one of the banks used by the 
Group could result in the loss of deposits and/
or banking facilities. Banks are monitored 
and reviewed and deposits spread between a 
number of institutions to reduce the risk.
Availability of Capital
The cost and availability of finance, both debt 
and equity, will affect the Group’s ability to 
undertake investment and expansion. This has 
been highlighted by the recent developments in 
the financial world which have caused severe 
reductions in lending and reduced investor 
confidence. Limited availability of capital has 
impacted property developers who have not 
been able to proceed with developments which 
would have included new cinemas. Reduced 
lending may also affect the financing of film 
productions which could reduce the supply 
of films and/or delay their production and 
releases in cinemas.
Existing and New Competitors
Existing competitors could change their 
strategies or a new competitor could enter the 
market at a local or national level reducing 
trade. The cost of developing new sites or 
acquiring existing cinemas are, however, 
barriers to entry as is the lack of readily 
available cinemas for acquisition. 18
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Government Regulations and Actions
Cineworld’s business and operations are 
affected by central and local regulations 
covering such matters as planning, the 
environment, health and safety, licensing, 
food and drink retailing, data protection and 
the minimum wage. Failure to comply with this 
type of legislation may result in fines and/or 
suspension of the activity or entire business 
operation. In addition, changes to pension 
legislation and regulation relating to the 
Group’s defined benefit schemes, could  
result in additional costs from funding the 
scheme’s liabilities or from changes in the  
way it is administered.
terrorism
Terrorist attacks, civil unrest, or other 
geopolitical uncertainty could adversely impact 
cinema attendances and the efficient operation 
of the Group’s business.
l oss of Key Management (or failure to attract 
or retain the talent required for its business)
The policy of the Board is to attract, retain 
and motivate executives of the calibre and 
experience required, through competitive 
remuneration packages which may have 
a cost implication. Cineworld aspires to 
be a quality employer, seeking to provide 
the conditions to enable all employees to 
progress in their employment and develop their 
skills and abilities and to promote internally 
where possible.
f ailure of It s ystems and suppliers
The failure of the Group’s IT systems, including 
its website, telephone booking service and 
Unlimited card scheme administration, could 
seriously impact its continued success. The 
Group’s website, telephone booking service 
and Unlimited card scheme administration  
are hosted by different specialist companies.
The cost of Cineworld’s digital conversion is 
to be recovered via the “Virtual Print Fee” 
arrangement which will be administered via  
Arts Alliance Media (“AAM”) on behalf of 
Cineworld. Any significant failure to recover 
these sums would adversely impact Cineworld’s 
financial position.
Cineworld chose AAM because of the quality 
of its systems and experience in administering 
this type of contract. In addition, all suppliers 
are monitored and the Group employs an 
appropriately qualified team to maintain its  
in-house systems.
Risks and 
Uncertainties 
continued
Cineworld aspires to be  
a quality employer, seeking 
to provide the conditions  
to enable all employees  
to progress.  19
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Corporate 
Responsibility
The Board is committed to ensuring that an 
appropriate standard of corporate governance 
is maintained throughout the Group. This 
commitment includes recognition by the Group 
of the importance of taking into account its 
corporate social responsibilities (“CSR”) 
in operating the business. In this context, 
Cineworld seeks to integrate CSR considerations 
relating particularly to social, ethical, health 
and safety, and environmental issues in its 
day-to-day operations. The Board acknowledges 
its duty to ensure the Group conducts its 
activities responsibly and with proper regard 
for all its stakeholders including employees, 
shareholders, business partners, suppliers and 
the local communities. Further information in 
respect of the Group’s activities is set out below 
together with illustrative examples.
Community
Cineworld observes the British Board of Film 
Classification’s guidelines for film classification 
unless the local authority specifies otherwise; 
within this, however, it seeks to show as wide a 
range of film product and other screen content 
as possible. This is frequently driven by the 
local community and its needs. Cineworld has 
been once again the number one exhibitor in 
the UK for Bollywood product with over 50% 
box office share over 47 titles. In addition, 
Cineworld has continued to show a wider range 
of film product than its main competitors in 
the multiplex industry including non-English 
language titles, smaller British releases and 
independent American productions. Cineworld 
has also continued to increase the amount of 
non-film alternative content which it exhibits. 
Live screenings from the Metropolitan Opera 
and the National Theatre have attracted 
different audiences to Cineworld cinemas 
across the country. There have also been live 
screenings of acts and shows as diverse as 
Bon Jovi, Metallica, Andre Rieu, Les Miserable 
and Simply Red. Cineworld has also shown live 
sport in 3D in the form of Six Nations Rugby 
and the FIFA World Cup. Screening such a 
wide range of content means that we attract 
a wider range of audiences into our cinemas 
and are able to distinguish ourselves in the 
marketplace from our principal competitors by 
offering more.
In 2010, Cineworld once again worked with 
various charities, local government and 
community groups. Cineworld took part in 
a screening programme in conjunction with 
BAFTA and local children’s hospices. In 
addition, Cineworld hosted the second annual 
screening for the British Forces Foundation for 
families whose members are serving abroad. 
Cineworld also hosted the national Times 
Spelling Bee competition. Many cinemas also 
work on their own individual projects with 
local charities. All these events increase the 
profile of the Cineworld brand and help place 
Cineworld at the centre of local communities as 
well as supporting worthy causes.
Cineworld was, once again, the major venue 
partner for the Edinburgh International Film 
Festival, the Jameson Dublin International Film 
Festival and the Bradford International Film 
Festival as well as taking part in a number 
of smaller regional and local festivals. It 
also continued its sponsorship of two MA 
scholarships at the National Film and Television 
School. These activities continue to increase 
awareness of the Cineworld brand in audiences 
that might not normally associate Cineworld 
with this kind of wider film based activity.
Access for All
Cineworld has been keen to promote a “Movies 
for All” policy. Increasing accessibility results 
in local cinemas playing a fuller role in the 
communities in which they operate and offer 
larger potential audiences. On Saturday 
mornings it is still possible for children to see 
films for £1 which is a price that has not been 
increased for over 14 years. Senior citizens 
and students also receive discounts at certain 
times. Free tickets are offered to helpers of 
wheelchair users registered with the Cinema 
Exhibitor Association (“CEA”).
All new cinemas are designed to exceed current 
statutory requirements to provide buildings 
which are technically advanced, yet meet 
high operational standards in terms of public 
service, safety and accessibility. They are 
designed to remove physical features which 
can hinder the use of the facility by the less 
physically able, so that auditoriums are as 
accessible as possible given the restrictions of 
any particular location. The opportunity is also 
taken to enhance access within cinemas when 
they undergo major refurbishment as part of an 
on-going programme of improvements.
Cineworld seeks to integrate CsR 
considerations relating particularly  
to social, ethical, health and safety,  
and environmental issues in its  
day-to-day operations.
Cineworld has continued  
to show a wider range of 
film including non-English 
language titles, smaller 
British releases and 
independent American 
productions.  20
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
The business has a Disability Focus Group 
which meets regularly to review all aspects 
of disability access and the improvement 
in the services provided in this area which 
include regular screenings of subtitled and 
audio descriptive films, the installation of 
infrared systems in all new build cinemas and a 
programme of replacing induction loop systems 
in older cinemas during refurbishments. All 
these changes have helped to improve overall 
coverage for the hard of hearing within the 
cinemas and are linked to digital projection 
becoming more widespread. With an ongoing 
programme being implemented for the 
installation of digital projection to existing 
cinemas and full digital projection being 
installed in new cinemas, it will be possible to 
provide further improvements in our facilities 
for the hard of hearing and the partially sighted. 
By 31 December 2010, 377 screens with 
digital projection had been upgraded in this 
way with plans to complete upgrades for all 
cinemas by late 2012.
f ilm Piracy
With the increase in simultaneous worldwide 
film releases and UK first releases, there 
remains a significant risk of piracy within 
the cinema industry. Cineworld continued to 
work closely with the CEA, Federation Against 
Copyright Theft (“FACT”) and INFA©T Ireland in 
order to help reduce and prevent film piracy. In 
line with Cineworld’s operational strategy, each 
cinema management team is responsible for 
ensuring that they do everything reasonably 
practicable, including the use of night vision 
technology, to protect the intellectual property 
rights of films and alternative content exhibited 
within our cinemas.
With the ever changing threat of evolving 
technologies and smaller undetectable 
recording devices, Cineworld mitigates this 
risk by constantly reviewing and developing its 
training programme, policies and procedures 
to ensure its staff are able to combat film 
piracy effectively. Each member of cinema 
staff is now required to complete the FACT 
Film Test as part of their induction and ongoing 
training. Cineworld also increases the level of 
vigilance around high-profile vulnerable titles 
when released.
There were a number of notable successes 
in 2010 such as the police in Glasgow 
arresting and charging an individual with five 
counts relating to copyright laws following 
a very complex investigation with FACT, the 
police and Cineworld working together. This 
investigation has now led to many further 
arrests in the Midlands area and the resulting 
prosecutions are currently on-going. In another 
case, Birmingham police prosecuted an 
individual following a recording incident at 
Cineworld in Broad Street earlier in the year. 
These successes have resulted in a number of 
awards for our staff including four being made 
by FACT to Cineworld employees for the work 
done in detecting piracy activity at a ceremony 
in September hosted by Paramount Pictures, 
one of the major film distributors.
Environment
Cineworld seeks to comply with all relevant 
environmental legislation and to operate in an 
environmental sensitive manner. The Directors 
acknowledge the impact that the business has 
on the environment and is operating a number 
of processes to reduce the quantity of paper 
and packaging that is used in the business. 
Employees are encouraged to eliminate 
unnecessary travel and use other methods 
of communication in its place. Computer and 
other office equipment that has reached the 
end of its working life is resold, recycled or 
donated to local organisations as appropriate.
Being a multi-site business, the Group is 
conscious of its total energy consumption and 
the amount of waste materials generated and 
is actively working to reduce both energy usage 
and the quantity of waste materials produced 
that cannot be recycled. The Group continues 
to run pilot projects to evaluate possible 
measures to reduce its environmental impact. 
One such trial which is currently being run is 
the installation of LED lamps, detector switches 
and daylight sensors at the Cardiff cinema to 
help reduce energy usage. The impact of such 
work is evaluated and rolled out to further sites 
if appropriate.
As required during the year, the Group 
registered in the Environment Agency’s Carbon 
Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency 
Scheme (“CRC”) which will track carbon 
emission from energy consumption of our 
Corporate 
Responsibility 
continued
The business has a 
Disability Focus Group 
which meets regularly  
to review all aspects of 
disability access and  
the improvement in  
the services provided  
in this area. 21
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
UK cinemas. The majority of our cinemas 
already have half-hour read electricity meters 
or automated meter reading (“AMR”) meters. 
To improve monitoring of energy usage, AMR 
meters are being installed in the remaining 
cinemas that have old style electricity meters 
and this is expected to be completed in the 
first half of 2011. The installation of AMR gas 
meters has also been commenced with 41 
installed by the end of 2010. Cinemas that 
have the up-to-date meters receive a weekly 
consumption report which enables them to 
monitor actual usage against expected energy 
usage. In addition, an Energy Champion has 
been appointed at each cinema to focus on 
best practices in order to drive reduction in 
energy consumption. As a consequence of the 
steps already taken, over half of our cinemas 
used less electricity than in the prior year and 
the Group achieved in total a 2% reduction in 
electricity use across 67 comparable sites.
The conversion to digital technology, which 
continued during the year, further reduced 
Cineworld’s environmental impact. The move 
away from 35mm celluloid prints represents 
a direct reduction in the use of raw materials 
for the production of these bulky prints using 
chemical processes, but also the amount of 
waste that is ultimately produced as these 
prints are shredded and are unable to be 
recycled at the end of their relatively short life. 
In addition, the distribution of digital content 
through small hard drives is greatly reducing 
the delivery costs and associated carbon 
footprint. Throughout the year, over 25% of film 
content and 100% of all alternative content 
was delivered in digital format. One film was 
successfully delivered solely by satellite 
to sixteen sites during the year as a trial. 
Ultimately cable or satellite delivery should 
remove the carbon impact almost completely.
The introduction of 3D technology has brought 
its own challenges. Throughout the UK, the 
use of special disposable 3D glasses to 
enable this format has been the norm. In 
early 2009, Cineworld started to recycle these 
glasses and this had a significant impact on 
the amount of wastage. In November 2009, 
it altered its pricing structure from a premium 
for 3D films with “free” glasses to a smaller 
premium but with customers being required to 
purchase glasses separately. This change has 
significantly encouraged customers to retain 
their glasses for future use and, during 2010, 
on average around 40% of audiences for 3D 
films brought with them glasses obtained from 
previous visits. In addition, the marketing of 
special 3D glasses has, and should, continue 
to help the level of reuse accelerate.
Retail
Cineworld takes a proactive stance on how 
it markets food and drink in its cinemas and 
continually looks to respond to the challenges 
of marketing responsibly through offering more 
healthy options and reducing its impact on 
the environment, whilst maintaining the wide 
overall choice that customers demand.
2010 saw the full roll out of two key initiatives 
commenced last year. Firstly, all of Cineworld’s 
sites now serve popcorn made using GM free 
rapeseed oil, a much healthier option than the 
previous coconut oil to which customer reaction 
has been favourable. In addition in the first 
quarter, we completed the switch to the new, 
slimmer popcorn bag reducing raw materials by 
some 39% in this respect.
We are now working with our principal suppliers 
on improving aspects of our products and 
range in the area of both sizing and distribution. 
We are also undertaking a review of all sizes 
and combo packages to ensure that they meet 
customers’ expectations and offer greater 
choice. As part of this review, we will also be 
exploring what we can offer in the way of more 
healthy options and how we can communicate 
more clearly the nutritional information for our 
unpackaged goods such as popcorn, hot dogs, 
nachos and dispensed soft drinks.
We continue to look to reduce the number of 
weekly deliveries into all of our sites. Each 
time a contract comes up for renewal, the 
renewal arrangements are carefully reviewed 
to ensure that they are not only commercially 
beneficial, but also that full account is taken of 
environmental considerations.
Our People
Cineworld’s people remain central to its 
success and a number of Human Resources 
(“HR”) initiatives were launched in 2010 to 
continue the business’s on-going success. 22
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Two HR initiatives were aimed at our most 
senior people. The first was a leadership 
development programme for our Executive 
Directors and Senior Managers and this 
involved 360 degree profiling combined with 
bespoke development plans. The second 
initiative called “The Academy” has been 
developed over the year and will commence 
in March 2011. It is over and above our core 
development programmes and is aimed at 
high potential managers. The Academy will 
develop existing high potential talent for our 
largest and most critical sites by providing 
skills in executive management and strategic 
leadership and will result in delegates achieving 
a qualification which is the equivalent to a 
master’s degree. It will provide a route for 
progression to those who want to advance 
and will ensure that the Group has sufficient 
quality candidates when vacancies arise at the 
largest sites.
Additionally, our ongoing learning and 
development programmes ensure that every 
employee receives a thorough induction and 
thereafter further development opportunities 
are available to help them progress within the 
Group. For site managers, a series of bespoke 
“core courses” ensure continual professional 
development, ensuring that learning is at the 
heart of the cinema operation. Our annual 
learning and development “event” course 
focuses on a particular aspect of the business 
with a film based theme. Our most recent event 
course, aimed at General Managers, was called 
“The Greatest Show on Earth”. It centred on 
customer service and recognised that, when 
people visit our cinemas, they should have the 
best experience possible.
In 2009, Cineworld introduced work based 
vocational qualifications (“NVQs”) into the 
business and developed this programme 
over 2010 with candidates being provided 
with support and encouragement to complete 
qualifications during work time. At present, 
49 employees have completed qualifications 
with a further 77 learners on programmes at 
the beginning of 2011. It provides a route for 
progression for those people at lower levels 
in the organisation who want to advance 
and helps to ensures that the Group has 
the skills in its workforce which are key to 
its ongoing success.
Corporate 
Responsibility 
continued
For site managers, a  
series of bespoke “core 
courses” ensure continual 
professional development, 
ensuring that learning  
is at the heart of the 
cinema operation.
Stevenage
A 100% focus on the customer 
was one of the key reasons for 
Stevenage’s Georgina Jones’ success 
in being chosen as General Manager 
of the Year. Winner of this coveted 
award in 2010, Georgina’s and her 
team’s approach is helping the cinema 
produce strong results: attendances 
are rising steadily year-on-year and 
spend per customer is up. 
The focus on customers begins with 
induction training and is reinforced by 
a hands-on management style where 
line managers are expected to be role 
models and set the standards for their 
teams to follow. Team meetings focus 
on “Mystery shopper” feedback and 
competitions, incentives and staff 
screenings keep staff involved and 
motivated. The team are proud of their 
site and it shows.  
for more information visit 
www.cineworldplc.com 23
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Cineworld is proud that a high proportion of 
management and supervisory positions are 
held by employees who have started within the 
organisation at lower levels. To ensure staff are 
engaged, motivated, developed and retained 
there is a performance management framework 
in place. All Head Office and site management 
employees have objectives set followed by a 
number of performance review discussions to 
support and stretch their performance allowing 
their full potential to be achieved. As part of 
this, development opportunities are identified 
and, in the summer of 2010, a “learning at 
work” day was launched for our Head Office 
people with 75 people attending sessions such 
as “Lead and Succeed”, “The Communication 
Edge”, “Win Win Negotiating Skills” and “Time-
tastic Time Management Skills”.
All employees participate in the success 
of Cineworld through bonus schemes 
and Cineworld is proud that for the 16th 
consecutive year bonuses were paid to all 
qualifying staff in 2010. Cineworld is also 
committed to increasing the number of 
employees who hold shares in the Group. In 
December, 75 staff benefited from the first 
maturity of the SAYE Share Option Scheme, 
initially offered in 2007, and were able to 
acquire shares at £1.60, a price well below the 
prevailing market value.
All of our HR initiatives are aimed at ensuring 
Cineworld remains a great place to work and in 
turn, a great place to watch films. A number of 
focus groups were held throughout the year to 
ensure that working practices are continuously 
developed and, as part of this, employees were 
encouraged to share their views. Employees 
are also able to share their views and make 
suggestions to management at any time via 
a dedicated email address. Good ideas are 
captured and incorporated into ways of working 
going forward for the benefit of all.
safety
The ongoing management of the day-to-day 
health, safety and welfare of Cineworld’s 
customers, staff and contractors is of prime 
concern with over 47 million customer visits a 
year. Further steps have been taken this year 
to ensure that each cinema management team 
has the knowledge, understanding and tools 
necessary to effectively manage health and 
safety to a high standard within its site to keep 
all our staff, customers and other visitors as 
safe as possible.
During the 2009/10 year, all cinemas were 
again subject to a Fire, Food and Health and 
Safety Audit and overall achieved an average 
mark of 86% (with 85% now being considered 
the acceptable level of performance – up 
from 70% the previous year). The process was 
overseen and verified by external consultants. 
Follow-up audits were undertaken at sites 
where standards were not found to be at 
the level expected by the Group and regular 
monthly compliance monitoring was completed 
for all remaining sites by way of reviewing 
monthly audit update submissions.
To strengthen further the safety regime, in the 
last quarter of 2010, new compliance audits 
were introduced for all General Managers. 
These audits were followed by compliance 
audits undertaken by the Regional Managers. 
These two tiered audits were aimed at 
providing the General Managers of each 
cinema with a means of focusing on the major 
fire, food, health and safety and maintenance 
issues arising within their cinemas and to help 
the identification of any new issues arising 
as well as confirming how existing issues are 
being managed.
Early indications from the 2010/11 year audit 
cycle are that site standards have once again 
improved on last year’s results with an average 
pass mark in excess of the previous figure. Like 
the audits in 2009/10, this year’s audits are 
being undertaken on an unannounced basis in 
order to reflect the true operation of health and 
safety at each site.
An annual review of documented health and 
safety policies and procedures was also carried 
out in the latter part of the year to ensure that 
they reflected changing legislative standards as 
well as recommended good practices.
Cineworld is proud that  
a high proportion of 
management and 
supervisory positions are 
held by employees who 
have started within the 
organisation at lower levels. 1
2
3
4
24
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ 
Biographies
1. Anthony Herbert Bloom, Chairman – Age 72
Anthony Bloom joined the Board in October 
2004 as Chairman and has served as 
Chairman of Cine-UK Limited since the 
business was founded in 1995. He was 
previously Chairman and Chief Executive of 
The Premier Group Limited (South Africa) and 
a director of Barclays Bank (South Africa). 
Mr Bloom holds Bachelor of Commerce and 
Bachelor of Law degrees from the University of 
Witwatersrand in South Africa and a Masters 
of Law degree from Harvard Law School. He 
was a Sloan Fellow at the Stanford Graduate 
School of Business. In 2002, Mr Bloom was 
awarded the degree of Doctor of Law (H.C.) by 
the University of Witwatersrand in recognition 
of his contribution towards the establishment 
of a non-racial society in South Africa.
2. Richard David Jones, Chief f inancial 
Officer – Age 49
Richard Jones joined the Board in March 2006. 
Mr Jones joined Touche Ross in 1984 where he 
qualified as a chartered accountant and worked 
in the audit and corporate finance teams. In 
1993, Mr Jones moved to the corporate finance 
division at Clark Whitehill and, in November 
1995, he joined the team at Cine-UK Limited. 
He was appointed Group Chief Financial Officer 
in 2005 and has responsibility for all aspects 
of finance for the Group including accounting, 
taxation, treasury and business planning.  
He is also responsible for IT. Mr Jones holds  
a degree in mathematics from the University  
of Warwick.
3. Matthew David t ooth, Non-Executive 
Director – Age 35
Matthew Tooth joined the Board in August 
2004. Mr Tooth is a Managing Director in the 
Private Equity group at the Blackstone Group 
International Limited and is responsible for 
Blackstone’s investments in the European 
leisure and consumer sectors. He is also 
a Director of ICS Group. Prior to joining 
Blackstone in 2003, Mr Tooth worked in 
the M&A and leveraged finance teams at 
CSFB. Mr Tooth was previously a Director of 
Orangina-Schweppes, Southern Cross and 
Merlin Entertainments. Mr. Tooth holds a 
first class honours degree in economics from 
Exeter University.
4. Peter Wodehouse Williams, Non-Executive 
Director – Age 57
Peter Williams joined the Board in May 
2006. He is Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and a member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees. He is the Senior 
Independent Director of ASOS plc and 
Sportech PLC, a Non-Executive Director 
of Silverstone Holdings Limited and is a 
member of the Design Council. Peter recently 
worked for EMI Group during 2010 as an 
Executive Director of Maltby Investment 
Limited. From December 2008 to May 2009, 
he was an Executive Director of JJB Sports 
Plc, responsible for the turnaround strategy 
and business restructuring. Previously he 
was Chief Executive at Alpha Group plc and 
prior to that Chief Executive of Selfridges 
plc where he also acted as Chief Financial 
Officer for over ten years. Mr Williams 
has a degree in Mathematics from Bristol 
University and is a chartered accountant. 5
6
7 9
8
25
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
7. Martina Ann King, Non-Executive 
Director – Age 50
Martina King joined the Board in July 2010. 
She is a member of the Remuneration 
Committee. Her career started in Sales at 
the Observer newspaper followed by ten 
years at The Guardian before becoming 
the Sales Director at Capital Radio and 
Managing Director of the London Stations. 
She became the first Managing Director 
of Yahoo! UK and Ireland in October 1999, 
then Chief Operating Officer of Yahoo! 
Europe in 2002 and Managing Director of 
Yahoo! Europe in 2003. Ms King is currently 
a Non-Executive Director of The Capita 
Group Plc, Debenhams Plc, IMD Plc and 
Tradedoubler AB, a Swedish company, as 
well as being a Trustee of Coram and a 
Governor of the Seckford Foundation.
8. Eric (Rick) Hartley senat, Non-Executive 
Director – Age 61
Rick Senat joined the Board in July 2010 
and is a member of the Audit Committee. 
Rick has over 30 years’ experience of the 
film industry. He joined Warner Bros in 
1976, becoming its Senior Vice-President 
for Business Affairs in Europe. Among the  
projects with which he was closely associated  
are the Harry Potter films, Greystoke, 
Batman, Superman and many more. He 
retired from Warner Bros after 25 years’ 
service. He was a Director of the legendary 
and newly revived film company Hammer 
Film Productions, and has served as Vice 
Chair of the British Film Institute. Currently, 
he is a Non-Executive Director of Bank 
Leumi (UK) plc and Chairman of the London 
Film Museum. Mr Senat is a solicitor and 
graduate of University College London.
9. David Ossian Maloney, Non-Executive 
Director – Age 55
David Maloney joined the Board in May 
2006. He is the Senior Independent 
Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee 
and a member of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees. Mr Maloney 
is currently a Non-Executive Director of 
Carillion plc, Enterprise Inns plc, Micro 
Focus International plc and Ludorum 
plc and the Chairman of the Board of 
Trustees of Make A Wish Foundation 
(UK). Previously, he was the Chairman of 
Hoseasons Holdings Ltd, a Director of 
Virgin Mobile Holdings (UK) plc and held a 
number of senior positions, including Chief 
Financial Officer for Le Meridien Hotels & 
Resorts, Thomson Travel Group plc and Avis 
Europe plc. Mr. Maloney holds a degree 
in Economics from Heriot Watt University, 
Edinburgh and is a fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants.
5. stephen Mark Wiener, Chief Executive 
Officer – Age 59
Stephen Wiener joined the Board in October 
2004. He has 41 years’ experience in the 
cinema industry, starting in the US as an 
usher whilst a full time student, and rising 
through various roles culminating in Vice 
President for Cineplex Odeon in New York 
City. He then moved to Warner Bros Europe 
in 1991 to become Managing Director. In 
1995, he left to found Cine-UK Limited 
and developed the business into a chain 
of 34 cinemas before it was acquired by 
Blackstone in October 2004. At the time 
of the UGC acquisition, he was appointed 
Chief Executive Officer of the combined 
Group. He is also a Director of the Cinema 
Exhibitors Association and a Non-Executive 
Director of Digital Cinema Media Limited, 
the screen advertising company 50% owned 
by Cineworld.
6. t homas Berard McGrath, Non-
Executive Director – Age 55
Thomas McGrath joined the Board in May 
2005 and is Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee. Previously he was Chief 
Operating Officer of Viacom Entertainment 
Group and President of Time Warner 
International Broadcasting, prior to which 
he worked for Columbia Pictures. Mr 
McGrath is currently a Senior Managing 
Director of Crossroads Media Inc. and 
serves on the board of directors of BUG 
Music and Key Brand Entertainment. Mr. 
McGrath holds a BA and an MBA from 
Harvard University. 26
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited 
financial statements for the 52 week period ended 30 December 
2010. The comparative period is for the 53 week period ended 
31 December 2009. 
Principal activity
The Company acts as an investment holding company for a group 
of companies whose principal activity is the operation of cinemas 
in the UK and Ireland for the exhibition of films and related retail 
activity. The Directors do not expect any change in the principal 
activity during the next financial period.
Strategy and Business Review 
The strategy of the Group is set out on page 6 and a review of its 
business and operations, including the main trends and factors 
likely to affect its future development and performance, is set out 
in the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers’ Review on 
pages 8 to 15.
Key performance indicators are set out below and the principal 
risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 16 to 18. Information 
about environmental, employee and community issues is set out 
in part below and also in the Corporate Responsibility (“CR”) 
section on pages 19 to 23.
The Strategy, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers’ Review, 
Risks and Uncertainties and CR sections are incorporated by 
reference into this Directors’ Report. Certain statements in these 
sections are forward looking and so involve risk and uncertainty 
because they relate to events, and depend upon circumstances, 
that will occur in the future and therefore results and 
developments can differ materially from those anticipated. The 
forward looking statements reflect knowledge and information 
available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the 
Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-
looking statements. Nothing in this Annual Report should be 
construed as a profit forecast.
To the extent it is material, the Group’s approach to the use of 
financial instruments in respect of its financial risk management 
objectives and its exposure to price, liquidity and cash flow risk is 
set out in Note 21 to the financial statements and are also 
incorporated in this report by reference.
Key Performance Indicators (“KPI’s”)
   52 week 53 week 
   period ended  period ended 
   30 December 31 December 
   2010 2009
Admissions    47.2m 49.1m
Box Office Revenue   £235.8m £230.9m
Average ticket price    £4.99 £4.71
Retail spend per customer    £1.73 £1.72
EBITDA    £59.0m £55.7m
The Board of Directors and executive management receive a wide 
range of management information. The following are the principal 
measures of achievement that are reviewed on a regular basis to 
monitor the development of the Group:
Admissions
This measure is the ultimate driver of the business and primary 
indicator of business volume.
Box Office Revenue
This measure represents the principal revenue stream of the 
Group and is used generally within the cinema industry as the 
measure of market share (as reported by Rentrak/EDI).
Average Ticket Price and Retail Spend per Customer
Average ticket price is calculated by dividing total net box office 
revenue by total admissions. It is a composite of the various 
pricing structures operated during the day and for different 
promotions for each cinema. Together with admissions this gives 
box office, which is the primary economic measurement for the 
industry. Retail spend per head is a measure of the value of the 
retail activity and our ability to generate other revenues directly 
from our customers. Both box office and retail measures are 
stated excluding VAT. 
EBITDA
EBITDA (as defined on Note 1 to the financial statements) serves 
as a useful proxy for cash flows generated by operations and of 
the Group’s ability to finance its capital expenditure and 
pay dividends. 
Results and Dividends
The results for the Group for the 52 week period ended 
30 December 2010 are presented under International Financial 
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the EU. The results 
for the period are set out in the Group Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income on page 43. The results for the parent 
company are drawn up under UK GAAP.
An interim dividend of 3.4p per share was paid on 8 October 2010. 
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 7.1p which, if 
approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM”), will be paid on 6 July 2011 to shareholders on the 
register on 10 June 2011.
Financial Risk Management
The Board of Cineworld regularly reviews the financial 
requirements of the Group and the risks associated therewith. 
The Group does not use complicated financial instruments, and 
where financial instruments are used it is for reducing interest 
rate risk. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments 
for trading purposes. Group operations are primarily financed from 
retained earnings and bank borrowings (including an overdraft 
facility). Further details of Capital management are set out in 
Note 21. In addition to the primary financial instruments, the 
Group also has other financial instruments such as debtors and 
trade creditors that arise directly from the Group’s operations.
The Group considers the currency risk on consolidation of the 
assets and liabilities of its Irish subsidiary, Adelphi-Carlton 
Limited, to be of low materiality and no hedging is provided. The 
Group’s trade and operations are otherwise based in the UK.
 
On 26 April 2007, as part of the IPO, the Group refinanced its 
bank loan and entered into a new five year facility agreement 
consisting of £135m loan and £30m revolving credit and 
overdraft facility to replace its previous facility of £246m. Half of 
the loan, an amount of £67.5m, was hedged in accordance with 
the terms of the facility agreement on a fixed rate of 5.35% whilst 
the remaining loan attracted interest at LIBOR. The whole loan 
attracted a margin of 0.7% during the year (originally 1.35%). The 
Group has taken steps to ensure that the swap is accounted for 
as a hedge and that changes in its valuation are recognised 
through reserves. Further information is provided in Note 21 to 
the financial statements.
Directors’ Report 27
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors and Directors’ Interests
Short biographical details of the Directors of the Company, whom 
held office at the end of the period under review, are given on 
pages 24 and 25. 
For so long as the Blackstone Shareholders (as defined below in 
the Major Shareholdings section) together held (i) at least 20% of 
the voting rights, they were entitled to appoint (and remove and 
reappoint) two Non-Executive Directors to the Board (each a 
“Blackstone Director”), one of whom was to be the Deputy 
Chairman of the Board and (ii) at least 10% of the voting rights, 
they were entitled to appoint (and remove and reappoint) one 
Non-Executive Director. 
Following the sale by the Blackstone Shareholders of their total 
interest in the Company in November 2010, Alan Roux, the first 
Blackstone Director, stepped down as a Director with effect from 
18 November 2011. Matthew Tooth, the second Blackstone 
Director, following a request from the Board, remained as a 
Director, but in an independent capacity.
In accordance with the Articles of Association (the “Articles”), 
one third of the Directors are retiring by rotation at the AGM and, 
being eligible, are offering themselves for re-election. The 
Directors retiring by rotation, are Anthony Bloom, Matthew Tooth 
and Peter Williams. In addition under the Articles, any Director 
appointed during the year must resign and stand for re-election at 
the next AGM and so both Martina King and Rick Senat will also 
be offering themselves for election. Following the Board 
evaluation process undertaken in November 2010, the Board is 
satisfied that each Director standing for election continues to 
show the necessary commitment and to be an effective member 
of the Board due to their skills, expertise and business acumen.
Details of the Directors’ interests in the issued share capital of 
the Company at the beginning and end of the year under review 
are set out below. Details of the Directors’ remuneration and 
information on their service contracts are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 40.
Details of the Directors’ interests in the ordinary shares of the 
Company arising under the Group’s Share and Option Schemes 
are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 40. No rights  
to subscribe for shares in or debentures of Group companies  
were granted to any of the Directors or their immediate families, 
or exercised by them, during the financial period.
None of the other Directors had any disclosable interest in the 
shares of Group companies and there have been no changes to 
Directors’ share interests between 30 December 2010 and the 
date of this report.
None of the Directors has a material interest in any contract of 
significance to which the parent company or a subsidiary was a 
party during the financial year, other than as disclosed above, in 
their service contracts or letters of appointment described on 
page 38 and in Note 24, related parties.
Conflicts of Interest
The Articles were amended at the 2008 AGM to permit the Board 
to consider, and if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a 
Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, 
with the interests of the Company. There is in place a formal 
system for the Board to consider authorising such conflicts 
whereby the Directors who have no interest in the matter decide 
whether to authorise the conflict. In deciding whether to authorise 
the conflict, the non-conflicted Directors are required to act in the 
way which they consider would be most likely to promote the 
success of the Company for the benefit of all shareholders and 
they may, and do, impose conditions to be attached to such 
authorisations. The Board believes that the arrangements for 
reporting and considering such conflicts operate effectively.
Share Capital and Control
The Company has only one class of share capital formed of 
ordinary shares. All shares forming part of the ordinary share 
capital have the same rights and each carries one vote. Details of 
the share capital, and changes in it over the period, are shown in 
Note 20 to the financial statements. There has been an increase 
in the issued share capital between 30 December 2010 and the 
date of this report as a result of the issue of 15,960 ordinary 
shares to satisfy options being exercised under the Cineworld 
Group Sharesave Scheme.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive Company 
reports and accounts, to attend and speak at General Meetings 
of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
There are no restrictions on transfers of, or limitations on the 
holding of, ordinary shares and there is also no requirement of 
any prior approval of any transfers other than those which may be 
applicable from time to time under existing laws or regulation or if 
a person with an interest in 0.25% of the issued share capital 
held in certificated form has been served with a disclosure notice 
and fails to respond with the required information concerning 
interests in that share capital. No ordinary shares carry any 
special rights with regard to control of the Company. There are no 
restrictions on voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares. The 
Company is not aware of any known agreements between 
shareholders that restrict the transfer of voting rights attached to 
ordinary shares. 
The Directors who held office at the end of the financial period had the following interests in the ordinary shares of the Company: 
   Ordinary shares held by 
   companies in which a Director 
 Ordinary shares held directly 
| ||||
 has a beneficial interest
     30 December 31 December 30 December 31 December 
Director     2010 2009 2010 2009
Anthony Bloom     – – 1,723,224
*
 1,723,224
*
Stephen Wiener     1,593,800 1,593,800 – –
Richard Jones     247,939 247,939 – –
Thomas McGrath     131,000 131,000 – –
David Maloney     10,000 10,000 – –
Peter Williams     10,000 10,000 – –
* Shares are held by a nominee for a Jersey based discretional trust, of which Mr Bloom is one of the potential beneficiaries. 28
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
Directors’ Report continued
The Company’s Articles set out the rules governing the 
appointment and replacement of Directors. In addition the 
Articles, together with English law, define the Board’s powers. 
Changes to the Articles must be approved by shareholders in 
accordance with the Articles themselves and legislation in force 
at the relevant time. Updated Articles were adopted at the 
Company’s AGM in May 2010 mainly to reflect the implementation 
of the final provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
Major Shareholder Voting Arrangements
Until November 2010, Blackstone Capital Partners (Cayman) IV 
L.P., Blackstone Capital Partners (Cayman) IV-A L.P. and 
Blackstone Family Investment Partnership (Cayman) IV-A L.P. 
(together the “Blackstone Shareholders”) in aggregate controlled 
the exercise of 20.09% of the rights to vote at general meetings of 
the Company. The Company and the Blackstone Shareholders 
entered into a Relationship Agreement dated 26 April 2007 to 
regulate the relationship between them. The Blackstone 
Shareholders undertook to exercise their voting powers to ensure 
that the Company was capable of carrying on its business for the 
benefit of shareholders of the Company as a whole and 
independently of the Blackstone Shareholders and further agreed 
not to exercise their voting rights in favour of any amendment to 
the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company in a 
manner which would be contrary with the principle of 
independence of the Company. The Relationship Agreement 
terminated in November 2010 when the Blackstone Shareholders 
and their affiliates collectively held less than 10% of the voting 
rights of the Company by selling their entire shareholding.
Essential Contracts and Arrangements
The Group has a number of contractual agreements with its 
suppliers in support of its business. While the loss of some of 
these arrangements may cause temporary disruption, none on 
their own are considered essential to the business of the Group.
Change of Control
There are no significant agreements which take effect, alter or 
terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company 
except that under its current banking arrangements a change of 
control may trigger a right for lenders to require early repayment of 
all sums outstanding.
No Director or employee is contractually entitled to compensation 
for loss of office or employment as a result of a change in control; 
however, provisions in the Company’s share schemes may cause 
options or awards granted to employees to vest on a change 
of control.
Issue of New Shares and Purchase of Own Shares
At the AGM held on 12 May 2010, shareholders gave authority for 
the allotment of shares up to an aggregate nominal value of up to 
£944,810 subject to certain conditions. This authority will expire 
on the earlier of the 2011 AGM and 11 August 2011. No shares 
have been issued under this authority except 36,048 ordinary 
shares in respect of the exercise of share options maturing under 
the Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme. Details of the 20,088 
ordinary shares issued in the period in this respect are set out in 
Note 20.
Also at the AGM held on 12 May 2010, shareholders gave 
authority for the purchase of up to 21,244,054 ordinary shares in 
the Company for cancellation or placing into treasury. No shares 
have been acquired under this authority.
The Board proposes to seek shareholder approval at the AGM to 
renew both the Company’s authority to issue new shares and its 
authority to purchase its own ordinary shares for cancellation or 
placing in treasury. Details of the proposed resolutions are set out 
in the Notice of AGM dispatched to shareholders with the Annual 
Report and Accounts (or notification of their availability) 
(the “AGM circular”).
Annual General Meeting
The Notice convening the AGM, to be held at The Cineworld 
Cinema at The O2, Peninsular Square, London SE10 0AX at 
11.00 am on 18 May 2011, is contained in the AGM circular. 
Details of all the resolutions to be proposed are set out in the 
AGM circular.
Directors’ and Officers’ Insurance and Indemnities
The Company maintains insurance cover for all Directors and 
Officers of Group companies against liabilities which may be 
incurred by them whilst acting as Directors and Officers. As at the 
date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the 
Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors as permitted by 
law and by the Articles against liabilities they may incur in the 
execution of their duties as Directors of the Company.
Substantial Shareholdings
At 10 March 2011, the Group had been notified, pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests in the 
voting rights of the Company:
      % of Total  
     Voting Rights Voting Rights Nature of Holding
Artemis Investment Management Limited   22,535,349 15.90 Direct interest
Parvus Asset Management (UK) LLP    14,370,528 10.14 See Note 1 below
HSBC Holdings plc      14,163,717 10.00 Direct and indirect interest
Standard Life Investments Limited    11,925,194 8.42 Direct and indirect interest
AXA S.A.     7,201,070 5.08 Direct and indirect interest
Legal & General Group Plc     7,084,364 4.99 Direct interest
Tosca Fund Asset Management LLP    7,077,557 4.99 See Note 2 below
Rathbone Brothers PLC     7,024,615 4.95 Indirect interest
BlackRock Inc     6,958,733 4.91 See Note 3 below
Note 1: Disclosed as an equity swap being a financial instrument with similar economic effect to a Qualifying Financial Instrument. 
Note 2: Disclosed as a CFD being a financial instrument with similar economic effect to a Qualifying Financial Instrument. 
Note 3:  Disclosed as an indirect interest in 6,488,958 shares plus a CFD (covering 688,357 voting rights) being a financial instrument with similar economic effect to a 
Qualifying Financial Instrument. 29
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Political and Charitable Contributions
The Group’s policy, which it has followed, is to make no donations 
to political parties. During the year, the Group made charitable 
donations of £38,000 (2009: £45,686) to a variety of local and 
national charities in the UK. In addition the Group supported over 
20 film screenings on behalf of various charities in the year and 
responded to over 1,300 requests from charities and schools for 
free tickets.
Payment of Suppliers
Cineworld Group plc, which holds the investments in the Group’s 
companies, does not trade itself and does not have suppliers as 
defined by the Companies Act 2006. The Directors believe, 
however, it would be helpful to give the disclosures on a 
consolidated basis. The Group seeks the best possible terms 
from suppliers appropriate to its business and in placing orders 
gives consideration to quality, delivery, price and terms of 
payment. The Group does not follow a specific payment code but 
has a policy to pay its suppliers in accordance with the specific 
terms agreed with each supplier. The average number of days 
payments to suppliers were outstanding at 30 December 2010 
for the Group was 24 days (2009: 32 days).
Employees
The policy is to recruit, employ and develop staff on the basis of 
the suitability of their qualifications and experience, regardless of 
sex, marital status, race, nationality, age, sexual orientation or 
religion. It is Company policy to give full and fair consideration to 
applications for employment from disabled people, having regard 
to their particular abilities and aptitudes. Full consideration is 
given to continuing the employment of staff who become disabled, 
including considering them for other reasonable positions. 
The health, welfare and development of the Group’s employees 
remain a priority. With the intent of attracting, recruiting, 
developing and retaining key employees, Cineworld maintains a 
number of policies and procedures for the benefit of its 
employees, which can be accessed by employees via the Human 
Resources department and via the Human Resources manual  
on the Company intranet. Continuing education, training and 
development are important to ensure the future success of the 
Group and employee development is encouraged through 
appropriate training. The Group supports individuals who wish to 
obtain appropriate further education qualifications and 
reimburses tuition fees up to a specified level.
Regular and open communication between management and 
employees is essential for motivating the workforce. Briefings are 
held regularly to provide updates on Group business and to 
provide opportunity for questions and feedback. There is regular 
consultation with the Broadcasting Entertainment Cinematograph 
and Theatre Union (“BECTU”). The Company also maintains both 
an internet website which is freely accessible and an intranet site 
accessible to all head office employees and at all cinemas.
Corporate Governance
Details of the Group’s Corporate Governance arrangements are 
set out in the Corporate Governance statement on pages 31 to 
35 which together with the Directors’ Remuneration report and 
the Directors’ responsibilities statement form part of this report 
together with any other parts cross referenced from it.
Corporate Responsibility
Cineworld recognises its responsibilities to the communities in 
which it operates and to operate in a way that respects the 
environment and people within those communities. Further details 
on its approach to such matters are set out in the Corporate 
Responsibility section on pages 19 to 23.
Significant Events since the Year End
There were no significant events.
Disclosure of information to Auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
Auditors are unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps 
that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s Auditors are aware of that information. 
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc have confirmed that they are willing to continue in 
office and a resolution proposing their reappointment, at a fee to 
be agreed by the Directors, will be proposed at the AGM.
Funding and Liquidity
Information regarding the Group’s business activities, together 
with the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position is set out in the Chief Executive and 
Chief Financial Officer’s report and the Risks and Uncertainties 
section on pages 8 to 18. The financial position of the Group, its 
cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described 
in the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer’s Report on 
pages 8 to 15. In addition Note 21 to the financial statements 
includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for 
managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; 
details of its financial instruments and hedging activities; and its 
exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
As highlighted in Note 16 to the financial statements, the Group 
meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its 
bank facilities which consist of a £102 million term loan plus 
£30 million revolver which matures in 2012. The current economic 
conditions create uncertainty particularly over (a) the level of 
demand for the Group’s products; and (b) the availability of bank 
finance in the foreseeable future. 
The bank facility is subject to two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA 
to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net 
finance charges. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking 
account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, 
show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of 
its current facility, including compliance with the bank 
facility covenants.
Since the end of the period, the Group has received commitments 
from a group of banks for a new five year facility of £170m to 
replace its existing facility which is due to expire in May 2012. The 
new facility will provide the Group with more flexibility to finance 
future expansion plans as well as other growth opportunities. 
Documentation is being drafted between the Group and the 
participating banks and all parties are working to complete the 
process in the near future. 30
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
Directors’ Report continued
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the annual financial statements.
By order of the Board
R B Ray
Company Secretary
Cineworld Group plc
10 March 2011
Registered Office:
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road
Chiswick
London W4 5PY
Registered: England 
No: 5212407 31
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Corporate Governance Statement
Compliance with the Combined Code
The Board is committed to ensuring that an appropriate standard 
of corporate governance is maintained throughout the Group. The 
principal governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the 
London Stock Exchange for the period covered by this statement 
are contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 
published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 
(the “Combined Code”) and which is available on its website  
www.frc.org.uk. For the year ended 30 December 2010, the Board 
considers that the Company was compliant with the provisions of 
the Combined Code except that the Chairman did not meet the 
independence criteria on his appointment (Code Provision A2.2). 
Further details are set out below under the heading “Directors and 
Directors’ Independence”, otherwise this report explains how the 
Company has complied with the provisions of the Combined Code. 
The information required to be disclosed by the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules (“DTR”) 7.1 and 7.2 is set out in this 
statement except that information required by DTR 7.2.6 which is 
set out in the Directors’ Report on pages 26 to 30 and is 
incorporated in this statement by reference.
The Board
The Group is ultimately controlled by the Board of Directors of the 
Company. The Board is responsible for the overall leadership of 
the Group and for determining its long-term objectives and 
commercial strategy to create and deliver strong and sustainable 
financial performance to maintain and enhance shareholder value. 
In fulfilling its role, the Board ensures that necessary financial 
and other resources are available to enable the Group’s objectives 
to be met.
The Board meets regularly six times a year and also once for a 
strategy day. The meetings follow a formal agenda which includes 
matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board. The Board 
also meets as and when necessary to discuss and approve 
specific issues. All Directors receive notice of such meetings and 
are given the opportunity to comment on the issues being 
discussed if they are unable to attend the meeting.
A schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the 
Board has been agreed and adopted. These matters include: 
setting Group strategy; approving an annual budget and 
medium-term forecasts; reviewing operational and financial 
performance; approving major acquisitions, divestments and 
capital expenditure; succession planning; approving appointments 
to the Board and of the Company Secretary, and approving 
policies relating to Directors’ remuneration and contracts.
The Board is supplied on a monthly basis with detailed 
management accounts and an overview of Group financial and 
operational information.
Directors and Directors’ Independence
At the start of the year, the Board was composed of 
eight members, consisting of two Executive Directors and 
six Non-Executive Directors, three of whom were independent. In 
July 2010, two additional independent Non-Executive Directors 
were appointed and, in November 2010, a Non-Executive Director, 
not considered independent, resigned. Consequently, at the end 
of the year, the Board was composed of nine members, five of 
whom were independent. 
Under provision A2.2 and A3.1 of the Combined Code, Anthony 
Bloom, a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Company, 
was not considered by the Board to be independent as at the time 
of his appointment as Chairman of the Company he also served 
as chairman on the board of another company, Cine-UK Limited, 
within the Group and had held this position since its foundation in 
1995. The Board considers that, although Anthony Bloom was not 
viewed as independent on appointment, his knowledge and 
understanding of the business are such as to justify him retaining 
the role as Chairman. Alan Roux (who resigned in November 
2010) and Matthew Tooth, both Non-Executive Directors, were 
also considered by the Board not to be independent by virtue of 
their positions at the Blackstone Group, with whom the 
Blackstone Shareholders were affiliated. Until November 2010, 
the Blackstone Shareholders were significant shareholders in the 
Company. The names of the Directors at the year end together 
with their biographical details are set out on pages 24 and 25.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive 
Directors are set out in letters of appointment and are made 
available for inspection by any person at the Company’s registered 
office during normal business hours and will be available at the 
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”). Further details of the letters of 
appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and the service 
contracts of the Executive Directors can be found in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 36 and 40.
The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive
The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate. 
The division of responsibility between the Chairman of the Board, 
Anthony Bloom, and the Chief Executive Officer, Stephen Wiener, 
is clearly defined in writing.
The Chairman, together with the Chief Executive Officer, leads the 
Board in determination of its strategy having regard to the Group’s 
responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, employees and other 
stakeholders. The Chairman is responsible for organising the 
business of the Board ensuring its effectiveness and setting its 
agenda. The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of 
Non-Executive Directors and oversees the performance evaluation of 
the Board and he regularly discusses matters with the Non-Executive 
Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
The Chairman performs a number of external roles but the Board 
is satisfied that these are not such as to interfere with the 
performance of the Chairman’s duties to the Group.
The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the Group on a 
day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial 
and operational performance of the Group. He holds regular 
meetings with his Senior Management Team consisting of senior 
executives who assist him in this task.
Independent Directors and the Company Secretary
The Combined Code recommends that, in the case of smaller 
companies incorporated in England which are below the 
FTSE 350, at least two non-executive members of the Board of 
Directors should be independent in character and judgement and 
free from relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, 
or could appear to affect, their judgement. 
The Board considers that Martina King, David Maloney, Thomas 
McGrath, Rick Senat and Peter Williams are all Independent 
Non-Executive Directors being independent of management and 
have no business relationship or other relationship which could 
interfere materially with the exercise of their judgement. 
David Maloney has been appointed as the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director and he, together with Peter Williams, is 
available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact  
through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer  
or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which contact  
is inappropriate. 32
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
Corporate Governance Statement continued
The independent Non-Executive Directors bring an objective view 
point and range of experience to the Company and ensure that no 
individual or group of individuals is able to dominate the Board’s 
decision making. All the Non-Executive Directors also have access 
to independent legal advice subject to consulting with the Board 
and following the agreed procedure.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and supporting the 
Chairman and the Board on Corporate Governance matters, ensuring 
Board procedures are followed and facilitating the good information 
flow within the Board and the Board appointed Committees. 
Professional Development and Performance Evaluation
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Board’s responsibilities 
include facilitating induction and professional development. Any 
new Director receives a comprehensive, formal and tailored 
induction into the Company’s operations. Appropriate training is 
provided to new Directors and is also available to other Directors 
as required.
During the year, a performance evaluation was carried out in 
respect of the Board, the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees and each individual director including the Chairman. 
The process involved the completion of assessment 
questionnaires by each of the Directors and Committee Members. 
The results were then collated by the Company Secretary and a 
summary presented to the relevant Committee and the Board. 
The evaluation confirmed that overall the Board and Committee 
processes were working appropriately and the Directors including 
the Chairman were performing satisfactorily; however, there were 
a few matters identified where Directors felt that processes could 
be further improved and steps have been, and are being, taken to 
address these concerns.
Although Cineworld Group plc is not a FTSE350 company, the 
Board anticipates that, with effect from 2011 financial year, 
performance evaluations will be externally facilitated at least once 
every three years in accordance with The UK Corporate 
Governance Code (which will apply to the Group for the financial 
year commencing 1 January 2011).
Board Committees
In accordance with best practice, the Board has appointed a 
number of Committees, as set out below, to which certain Board 
functions have been delegated. Each of these Committees has 
formal written terms of reference which clearly define their 
responsibilities. The terms of reference of each of the Board’s 
three Committees are available on the website or from the 
Company Secretary.
Audit Committee
At the start of the year, the Company’s Audit Committee 
comprised two independent Non-Executive Directors (namely 
David Maloney and Peter Williams). Rick Senat, another 
independent Non-Executive Director, was appointed as an 
additional member in July 2010. It met five times during the 
financial year. Both David Maloney and Peter Williams are 
considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial 
experience. The Company considers that it complied with the 
Combined Code throughout the year as it recommends that the 
Audit Committee of a smaller company which is below the 
FTSE 350 should comprise of at least two members who should 
both be independent non-executive directors, and at least one 
member should have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its 
responsibility with regard to financial reporting, external and 
internal audits and controls, including monitoring the financial 
reporting process, reviewing the Company’s annual financial 
statements, reviewing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit 
work undertaken by external auditors, advising on the 
appointment of external auditors and reviewing the effectiveness 
of the Company’s internal audit activities, internal controls and 
risk management systems. The ultimate responsibility for 
reviewing and approving the Annual Report and Accounts and 
half-yearly reports remains with the Board.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial 
Officer, other senior executives, the internal auditors and the 
external auditors may be invited to attend meetings, but are not 
members. During the period, the main activities of the Audit 
Committee during the period were:
Monitoring the financial reporting process and reviewing the  y
half-year and annual financial statements with particular 
reference to accounting policies, together with significant 
estimates and financial reporting judgements and the 
disclosures made therein;
Reviewing the management representations made to the  y
external auditors and the Company’s procedures to ensure all 
relevant information has been disclosed;
Discussing any issues arising out of the interim review and full  y
year audit with the external auditors (in the absence of 
management where appropriate);
Reviewing the risk register and the measures implemented to  y
mitigate the principal risks facing the Group;
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit  y
function and the Group’s internal financial controls together with 
its broader internal controls and risk management systems;
Considering the reports of Grant Thornton UK LLP review of  y
specific areas of risk (following their appointment in November 
2008 to help implement a three year internal audit plan); 
Making recommendations to the Board with regard to continuing  y
the appointment and remuneration of the external auditor; 
overseeing the Company’s relations with the external auditor 
and monitoring the effectiveness of the audit process; and
Reviewing its terms of reference and recommending changes  y
to the Board.
The Committee also considers on an ongoing basis the 
independence of the external auditors and has established 
policies to consider the appropriateness or otherwise of 
appointing the external auditors to perform non-audit services. As 
detailed on page 29 the external auditors are KPMG, who have 
provided certain non-audit services to the Company, principally in 
respect of advice on taxation and corporate finance matters. The 
Committee is satisfied that such work was best undertaken by 
KPMG and their objectivity has not been impaired by reason of 
this further work. The Committee also reviewed and continues to 
oversee the whistleblowing arrangements which enable 
employees to raise concerns about improprieties in financial 
reporting and other matters on a confidential basis.
Nomination Committee
The Company’s Nomination Committee is comprised of three 
members, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors 
(namely Thomas McGrath, David Maloney and Peter Williams) and 
it met three times during the financial year. The Company 
considers that it complies with the Combined Code, which 
provides that a majority of the members of the Nomination  33
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Committee should be independent non-executive directors. Due 
to the importance that the Directors play in the success of the 
Group, the Chairman is invited to attend meetings and does so 
except when his own position is being discussed.
The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging its 
responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board. It is 
responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board, the size, structure and composition of 
the Board, retirements and appointments of additional and 
replacement Directors and makes appropriate recommendations 
to the Board on such matters.
During the year, two additional Non-Executive Directors were 
appointed. An external search consultancy was utilised to identify 
suitable candidates who were considered together with individuals 
recommended by the existing Directors. The whole process was 
carried with a particular regard both to strengthening the Board’s 
collective understanding of the UK film industry and on-line 
operations and also the benefits of diversity. Following interviews 
carried out by members of the Committee and the Chairman of 
the Company, the Committee recommended to the Board that 
Martina King and Rick Senat should be appointed. 
Remuneration Committee
At the start of the year, the Company’s Remuneration Committee 
comprised two Non-Executive Directors (namely David Maloney 
and Peter Williams). Martina King, another independent Non-
Executive Director, was appointed as an additional member in July 
2010. It met three times during the financial year. The Company 
considers that it complied with the Combined Code which 
provides that the Remuneration Committee of a smaller company 
which is below the FTSE 350 should consist of at least two 
members who are both independent non-executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in determining its 
responsibilities in relation to remuneration, including making 
recommendations to the Board on the Company’s policy on 
executive remuneration, determining the individual remuneration 
and benefits package of each of the Executive Directors and 
monitoring and approving the remuneration of senior management 
below Board level.
The Remuneration Committee appointed Towers Watson as an 
external advisor in November 2008 and again took advice from 
them during the year. Towers Watson have no other connection 
with the Group except as the actuary to the pension schemes of 
Adelphi-Carlton Limited, the Group’s operating company in Ireland.
 
The Chief Executive Officer is consulted on the remuneration 
packages of the other senior executives and attends discussions 
by invitation except when his own position is being discussed. 
Given the essential part remuneration plays in the success of the 
Group, the Chairman is also invited to attend meetings of the 
Committee and does so except when his own remuneration is 
being considered. The Committee does not deal with the fees 
paid to the Non-Executive Directors. The report of the 
Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 36 to 40.
Re-election
Under the Company’s Articles of Association, at each AGM each 
year one third of the Directors (or if their number is not three or a 
multiple of three, the nearest number to, but not less than one 
third) must retire by rotation and being eligible may stand for 
re-election. A Director must retire (and will be counted in the one 
third to retire) if he was last appointed or reappointed three years 
of more prior to the AGM or has served more than eight years as a 
Non-Executive Director (excluding as Chairman of the Board).
Although not a FTSE 350 company, the Directors anticipate that, 
with effect from the AGM to be held in 2012, they will all voluntarily 
offer themselves for re-election each year in accordance with The 
UK Corporate Governance Code (which will apply to the Group for 
the financial year commencing 1 January 2011).
Attendance at Meetings 
The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows:
       Board 
       (including Audit Remuneration Nomination 
       strategy day) Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings in year       7 5 3 3
       Attended Attended Attended Attended
Director
Anthony Bloom       7
*
 4
†
 3
†
 3
†
Richard Jones       7 n/a n/a n/a
Martina King       3
§
 n/a 1
§
 n/a
David Maloney       7 5
*
 3 3
Thomas McGrath       6 n/a n/a 3
*
Alan Roux       7 n/a n/a n/a
Rick Senat       3
§
 2
§
 n/a n/a
Matthew Tooth       6 n/a n/a n/a
Stephen Wiener       7 n/a n/a n/a
Peter Williams       7 5 3
*
 3
* Chairman of Board/Committee.
† Anthony Bloom attended these meetings by invitation.
§  Martina King and Rick Senat were appointed as Directors on 18 July 2010. Between this date and 30 December 2010, there were three Board meetings, two Audit 
committee meetings and one Remuneration Committee meeting. 34
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
Corporate Governance Statement continued
Investor Relations
The Directors value contact with the Company’s institutional and 
private investors. An Interim and Annual Report and Accounts 
have historically been sent to all shareholders and these in future 
will be made available to shareholders via the Company’s website 
unless shareholders have specifically requested that a copy is 
sent to them. Presentations are given to shareholders and 
analysts following the announcement of the interim results and 
the preliminary announcement of the full year results. Interim 
management statements are issued twice each year in respect of 
the first and third quarters and, in addition, trading updates are 
issued in early January and late June immediately before the 
Company enters into its close period leading up to the interim and 
preliminary results announcement. 
Separate announcements of all material events are made as 
necessary. In addition to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer, who have regular contact with investors over 
such matters, Anthony Bloom (the Chairman), David Maloney 
(Senior Independent Director), and Peter Williams (an Independent 
Non-Executive Director) are available to meet with shareholders 
as, and when, required. Additionally, the Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Financial Officer provide focal points for shareholders’ 
enquiries and dialogue throughout the year. The whole Board is 
kept up to date at its regular meetings with the views of 
shareholders and analysts and it receives reports on changes in 
the Company’s share register and market movements. 
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and 
institutional investors and welcomes their participation. The 
Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit 
Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee 
are available at the AGM to answer questions, and that all 
Directors attend.
The Company’s website (www.cineworldplc.com) provides an 
overview of the business. Major Group announcements are 
available on the website and new announcements are published 
without delay. All major announcements are approved by the 
Chairman and Executive Directors and circulated to the Board 
prior to issue. The Group also has internal and external checks to 
guard against unauthorised release of information.
Internal Controls
The Board is responsible for maintaining an effective system of 
internal control that provides reasonable assurance that the 
Group’s assets are safeguarded and that material financial errors 
and irregularities are prevented or detected with a minimum 
of delay.
The Group has in place internal control and risk management 
arrangements in relation to the Group’s financial reporting 
processes and the preparation of its consolidated accounts. The 
arrangements include policies and procedures to ensure the 
maintenance of records which accurately and fairly reflect 
transactions to enable the preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards or 
UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, as appropriate, with 
reasonable assurance and that require reported data to be 
reviewed and reconciled, with appropriate monitoring internally 
and by the Audit Committee.
More generally the Directors are committed to implementing 
measures to ensure that there is an ongoing review of the 
effectiveness of the internal control system with procedures to 
capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in the case of 
those categorised by the Board as significant, that procedures 
exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy 
the failings. 
The Board is satisfied that throughout the financial period in 
question such measures were in place throughout the Group and 
the Company fully complies with the requirements of the 
Combined Code in this regard. 
The system of internal control manages rather than eliminates 
the risks to business objectives. In pursuing these objectives, 
internal controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material loss or misstatement of the financial 
statements.
Reflecting the Board’s commitment to the ongoing development 
of the Group’s system of risk management and internal control, 
Grant Thornton UK LLP, continued its appointment during the 
year, undertaking a number of specific reviews and reporting back 
to the Committee in the process making recommendations to 
help strengthen the risk management framework and internal 
control processes within the Group. 
Under the Audit Committee’s terms of reference, it is tasked with 
reviewing the Company’s financial reporting and internal control 
procedures and to make recommendations to the Board in this 
area. Key elements of the Group’s risk management and internal 
control framework during 2010 were:
The day-to-day involvement of executive members of the Board in  y
all aspects of the business and their attendance at regular 
meetings with senior management, at which operational and 
financial performance and operational matters are reviewed. 
Financial performance was monitored and action taken through 
regular reporting to the Executive Directors and monthly 
reporting to the Board against annual budgets approved by the 
Board.
Small groups of members of the senior management team  y
meeting to review current and future risks in their particular 
areas of responsibility and expertise and to confirm the current 
measures in place to mitigate those risks.
An established organisational structure with clear lines of  y
responsibility and reporting requirements. Capital investment 
and all revenue expenditure being regulated by a budgetary 
process and authorisation levels (manual and systems), with 
appraisals and post-investment and period end reviews. Policy 
manuals setting out agreed standards and control procedures 
which include human resources related policies, information 
technology and health and safety.
An established internal audit function headed by an  y
experienced internal auditor who had access to all areas of the 
cinema operations and prepared reports which were available 
to the Board and reported regularly to senior management and 
the Audit Committee.
Reports from Grant Thornton following their reviews of specific  y
areas of risk as part of their on-going assistance with the 
Internal Audit programme. 
An independent external consultant conducting annual health  y
and safety audits and reporting to the Group Health and Safety 
Committee (comprising of members of the senior management 
team meeting on a quarterly basis) and the Audit Committee. 
The external auditors providing a supplementary, independent  y
and autonomous perspective on those areas of the internal 
control system, which they assess in the course of their work. 
Their findings were reported to both the Audit Committee and 
the Board. 35
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
The Audit Committee reviewing the risk register, receiving  y
reports on risk management and internal controls and 
monitoring the overall position and reviewing actions taken to 
address areas of weakness.
Each cinema having its own risk register prepared by undertaking  y
an annual review of all risks affecting the cinema and detailing 
the control measures in place to mitigate those risks with key 
controls being reviewed by the internal audit function. 
Business Continuity Plans for Head Office and each cinema  y
being in place with components of the Head Office plan being 
reviewed and tested during the year.
A specialist company conducting quarterly penetration testing  y
on the Group’s IT networks.
A whistle-blowing policy being in place ensuring that members  y
of staff who were concerned about impropriety, financial or 
otherwise, could raise such matters without fear of 
victimisation or reprisal.
Accountability, Audit and Financial
The Board is responsible for the preparation of financial 
statements that present a balanced assessment of the Group’s 
financial position and prospects. Responsibility is administered 
primarily by the Audit Committee, of which the terms of reference 
are referred to above.
A comprehensive budgeting system allows managers to submit 
detailed budgets which are reviewed and amended by the 
Executive Directors prior to submission to the Board for approval.
Human Resources
The Group endeavours to appoint employees with appropriate 
skills, knowledge and experience for the roles they undertake. The 
Group has a range of policies which are aimed at retaining and 
providing incentives for key staff. Objectives are set for 
departments and employees that are derived from the Group’s 
business objectives. The Group has a clear and well-understood 
organisational structure and each employee knows his or her line 
of accountability.
 
Insurance
It is not practical or possible to insure against every risk to the 
fullest extent. The Group has in place an insurance programme to 
help protect it against certain insurable risks. The portfolio of 
insurance policies is kept under regular review with its insurance 
broker to ensure that the policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
activities and exposures in light of cost, and the likelihood and 
magnitude of the risks involved.
By order of the Board
Anthony Bloom
Chairman
10 March 2011 36
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Introduction
I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committee’s Report on 
Directors’ remuneration for 2010 and the forthcoming financial 
year. 2010 was another successful year for Cineworld, with the 
Group delivering healthy growth in revenues and profits enabling a 
5% increase in the full year dividend to be made and executive 
remuneration decisions were made in this context.
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee 
and has been approved by the Board. It complies with Regulation 
11 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and also 
with the Combined Code. The report will be put to shareholders 
for approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”) requires the Auditors to 
report on certain parts of the report and to state whether, in their 
opinion, those parts of the report have been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Act. The report has therefore been divided 
into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Unaudited Information
Remuneration Committee
The Company’s Remuneration Committee currently comprises 
three Non-Executive Directors (namely Martina King, David 
Maloney and Peter Williams) who are all deemed to be 
independent. Martina King was appointed as an additional 
member of the Committee on 2 July 2010. The Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee is Peter Williams and the Secretary  
of the Committee is the Company Secretary. The Committee  
met three times in the financial period. The Committee’s terms  
of reference are available for inspection on the Company’s 
website (www.cineworldplc.com) or on request from the  
Company Secretary. 
The Remuneration Committee monitors and recommends to the 
Board for approval the structure and level of remuneration for 
each member of the Senior Management Team (“SMT”) including 
the Executive Directors. The Committee received advice from 
Towers Watson during the year in relation to the Company’s 
remuneration policy and its implementation. Towers Watson was 
appointed by the Remuneration Committee in November 2008. 
Towers Watson has no other connections with the Company 
except as the actuary to the pension scheme of Adelphi-Carlton 
Limited, the Group’s operating company in Ireland. The Committee 
also received assistance from the Chairman of the Company, the 
Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Head of 
Human Resources and the Company Secretary, although they do 
not participate in discussions relating to the setting of their 
own remuneration.
The objective of the Group’s remuneration policy is that all 
employees, including Executive Directors, should receive 
appropriate remuneration for their performance, responsibility, 
skills and experience. Remuneration packages are designed to 
enable the Group to attract and retain key employees by ensuring 
they are remunerated appropriately and competitively and that they 
are motivated to achieve the highest level of Group performance in 
line with the best interests of shareholders. To determine the 
elements and level of remuneration appropriate for each member of 
the SMT, the Committee considers benchmark remuneration data 
for selected comparable companies and seeks to ensure that fixed 
costs are no higher than market median, that an appropriately 
significant proportion of potential pay is performance-related and 
that total pay opportunity is consistent with appropriate superior 
levels of pay for superior performance. Currently, the expected 
value of the performance related element of the Executive 
Directors’ packages is around 55% at the target performance level. 
The arrangements are reviewed on a regular basis.
Remuneration Package
Executive Directors’ remuneration currently comprises an annual 
salary, a performance-related bonus, a share-based long-term 
incentive scheme, pension contributions and other benefits. 
Following a review in late 2009, the Remuneration Committee 
decided that, with effect from the 2011 financial year, bonus 
arrangements should be more heavily weighted towards longer 
term performance. In 2011 and thereafter, it is planned to 
increase awards for Executive Directors under the Long-term 
Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) from a level equivalent to 50% in value of 
annual salary to 75% and then to 100%. With effect from the 
2013 financial year and thereafter, the Remuneration Committee 
intends to reduce the level of the Performance Related Bonus 
which pays out for target performance, reflecting the potential 
greater benefit yielded by the higher LTIP awards starting to vest. 
This approach has been taken to ensure a smooth transistion 
from the current to the new arrangements.
Annual Salary
Salaries are reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee. 
The Board approves the overall budget for employee salary 
increases and the Committee agrees the specific increases for 
the SMT. For members of the SMT below Board level, the 
Committee receives a recommendation from the Chief Executive 
Officer which it reviews and approves as appropriate. In 
determining appropriate salary levels for each Executive Director, 
the Committee considers both the nature and the status of the 
Company’s operations and the responsibilities, skills, experience 
and performance of the Executive Director. The Committee 
compares the Group’s remuneration packages for its Executive 
Directors and employees with those for directors and employees 
of similar seniority in companies whose activities are comparable 
with the Group. It also takes into account the progress made by 
the Group, contractual considerations and salary increases 
across the rest of the Group (which for the year were generally in 
the range of 3% to 3.5%).
Performance-Related Bonus
The Executive Directors and all other employees participate in a 
performance-related bonus scheme. The level of bonus is based 
on overall Group performance in meeting its primary financial 
objectives in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation (“EBITDA”). The Committee ensures that challenging 
and clearly-assessable targets are set for Executive Directors.
Details of bonuses paid to Executive Directors in the year to 
30 December 2010 are included in the remuneration tables set 
out below. Bonuses are awarded wholly in cash. 
Stephen Wiener is eligible for a bonus payable of up to 100% of 
salary on achievement by the Group of 95% to 120% of full year 
budgeted EBITDA. Richard Jones is eligible for a bonus payable of 
up to 95% of salary on achievement by the Group of 95% to 120% 
of full year budgeted EBITDA. Bonuses are not payable unless a 
threshold of 95% of full year budgeted EBITDA is achieved.
The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan (“PSP”)
The PSP was implemented at IPO and the first grant of awards 
was made in March 2008 after the announcement of the 
Company’s results for the financial year ended 27 December 
2007. Further awards were made in March 2009 and March 
2010 – in each case after the announcement of the Company’s 
results for the preceding financial year. Only the Executive  37
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors and members of the SMT, decided at the discretion of 
the Remuneration Committee, participated in each grant. Details 
of the awards to the Executive Directors are set out below. 
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are not eligible 
to participate in the PSP.
Under the PSP, either awards of conditional shares are made that 
vest after three years or nil cost options over shares are granted 
which become exercisable after three years subject in both cases 
to continued employment and the achievement of specified 
performance conditions (“Awards”). The performance conditions 
applying to all Awards to the Executive Directors in each year 
are that:
30% of the Awards will vest if the average annual growth in  y
earnings per share (“EPS”)* (calculated by comparing the 
EPS for the last financial year prior to the date of grant and the 
EPS for the financial year ending three years later) is not less 
than 3.2%.
100% of the Awards will vest if the average annual growth in  y
EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the last financial year 
prior to the date of grant and the EPS for the financial year 
ending three years later) is at least 9.2%.
Where the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by  y
comparing the EPS for the last financial year prior to the date 
of grant and the EPS for the financial year ending three years 
later) is between the two limits above, the Awards shall vest on 
a straight-line basis between 30% and 100%. 
*  EPS for the 2008 grant is defined as the normalised undiluted earnings per share 
excluding any deferred tax charge relating to tax assets in existence on listing 
and exceptional items and for the 2009 and 2010 grants are defined as the 
adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the 
financial statements. 
Total shareholder return has been considered as an alternative or 
additional performance measure, but difficulties in identifying 
appropriate comparator companies has resulted in the Committee 
deciding to use EPS as the sole performance measure. The 
Remuneration Committee review the performance conditions for 
each grant to ensure they are appropriate for the Company and 
the prevailing internal and external expectations. The conditions 
may be varied in exceptional circumstances following the grant of 
an award so as to achieve their original purpose, but not so as to 
make their achievement any more or less difficult to satisfy.
The maximum value of shares subject to an award to an individual 
in any financial year is 100% of annual base salary as at the 
award date, unless the Remuneration Committee decides that 
exceptional circumstances exist in relation to the recruitment or 
retention of an employee, in which case the limit is 150% of 
annual base salary. On vesting, participants will also receive 
additional shares or a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that 
would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend 
record dates occurring between grant and vesting.
The Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme (the “Sharesave Scheme”)
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Sharesave 
Scheme, which is an HM Revenue and Customs approved scheme 
open to all employees of nominated companies who have a 
minimum of three months’ service at the date of invitation. Under 
the Sharesave Scheme, employees are eligible to acquire shares 
in the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the market value at 
grant if they agree to enter into a savings contract for a three-year 
period. Consistent with the relevant legislation, no performance 
conditions apply. No options were granted under the Sharesave 
Scheme during the year as no fresh invitation was made to 
eligible participants. The first Sharesave grant made in 2007 did 
vest in the period and participants were able to exercise their 
options. Details of the interests of the Executive Directors in the 
Sharesave Scheme are set out below.
The Cineworld Group Company Share Option Plan (the “CSOP”)
The CSOP was approved by shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting (“AGM”) in 2010 and the first grant of awards was made 
in July 2010. Only the Executive Directors and members of the 
SMT, decided at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, 
participated in the grant which consisted solely of HM Revenue 
and Customs approved options. In 2010, participants in the PSP 
were offered the opportunity to swap part of their PSP award for a 
HM Revenue and Customs approved share option. Details of the 
awards to the Executive Directors under the CSOP are set out 
below which included identical performance conditions to the 
2010 PSP awards. No unapproved share options were granted. 
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are not eligible 
to participate in the CSOP.
Satisfaction of Share Options and Awards
Awards under the PSP, the Sharesave Scheme and the CSOP can 
be satisfied using either new issue shares or shares purchased 
in the market in conjunction with the Cineworld Group Employee 
Benefit Trust (the “Trust”), established by the Company on 
24 March 2006 with independent trustees based in Jersey. 
However, if new issue shares are used, the following limits 
will apply:
In any ten year period, the number of shares which may be  y
issued under the PSP and under any other executive share or 
option scheme established by the Company may not exceed 
5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from 
time to time.
In any ten year period, the number of shares which may be  y
issued under the PSP and under any employees’ share or 
option scheme established by the Company may not exceed 
10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from 
time to time.
Share Retention Policy
A share retention policy exists under which each Executive 
Director is expected to build up over a period of time and then 
retain a holding in shares equal to 100% of his/her salary. As part 
of the process, he/she is expected to retain 50% of any shares 
he/she acquires under the Performance Share Plan or on the 
exercise of options, after allowing for the sale of shares to pay 
tax, until such time as he/she has built up such a holding.
Pension Contributions 
All employees, including Executive Directors, are invited to 
participate in a Group Personal Pension Plan which is a money 
purchase plan. All the major schemes operated by the Group are 
money purchase in nature and have no defined benefits. Two 
defined benefit schemes are operated in the UK and in Ireland 
and both have been closed to new members for a number of 
years. Details of these schemes are shown in Note 18 of the 
financial statements. The Group has no obligation to the pension 
scheme beyond the payment of contributions. The Company 
contributions for the Executive Directors are 20% of salary. 
Bonuses are not pensionable.
Other Benefits
Benefits in kind for Executive Directors include the provision of a 
company car or car allowance, life insurance, permanent health 
insurance, private medical cover and, for the Chief Executive Officer 
only, a driver and, for the Chief Financial Officer only, fuel for private use. 38
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Performance Graph 
The graph below compares the Company’s total shareholder return performance against the FTSE 250 and FTSE All Share Travel and 
Leisure indices since IPO in April 2007*. The Remuneration Committee believes these indices to be the most appropriate comparators 
as the Group looks to benchmark itself against smaller companies within the FTSE 250 and is a member of the FTSE All Share Travel 
and Leisure sector. 
* Rebased to 170p
The Shares of the Company commenced trading on the London Stock Exchange on 26 April 2007 at an offer price of 170p per share. 
Admission became effective and unconditional dealings in the shares commenced on the London Stock Exchange on 2 May 2007. 
The mid market closing price on 30 December 2010 was 216p and the range during the period 1 January 2010 to 30 December 2010 
was 154.5p to 231.75p.
Executive Directors’ Contracts
The Group’s policy in entering into service contracts with Executive Directors is to enable the recruitment of high-quality executives and to 
obtain protection from their sudden departure, whether or not to competitor companies. In addition, service contracts are an important 
element in maintaining maximum protection for the Group’s intellectual property rights and other commercially sensitive information. 
The details of the Executive Directors’ contracts are summarised in the table below: 
Director Date of contract Notice period from company Notice period from employee
Stephen Wiener 23 April 2007 12 months 12 months
Richard Jones 23 April 2007 12 months 6 months
Both Executive Directors are, under the terms of their service contracts, entitled to an annual review of their base salary and a 
minimum increase in line with the Retail Prices Index. 
The Company may, in lieu of giving notice, terminate an Executive Director’s service contract by making a payment equivalent to 95% of 
base salary and contractual benefits for the notice period. In this event the Director would not be entitled to any bonus for his notice 
period, but would be eligible for a pro-rata bonus for the period up to the date of the termination of his contract. 
The Company’s policy is to endeavour to minimise any payment on early termination by insisting on mitigation of any loss where possible.
Non-Executive Directors’ Letters of Appointment
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, do not have service contracts with the Company. The terms and conditions of 
their appointment as Non-Executive Directors are set out in letters of appointment, which are subject to the provisions of the Articles 
of Association.
Non-Executive Directors receive fees for services as members of the Board and its Committees. The level of fees is determined by the 
Board after taking into account appropriate advice (except in the case of the Chairman whose level of fee is determined by the 
Remuneration Committee), and no Director participates in discussions relating to the setting of his or her own remuneration. 
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Group’s share incentives or otherwise receive performance-related pay. Where a 
Non-Executive Director does not serve until the end of his term, the policy is to pay the fees due pro rata to the date of cessation.
Cineworld FTSE all share travel & leisure FTSE 250
200
150
100
50
0
250
300
26/04/2007 07/09/2007 19/01/2008 02/06/2008 14/11/2008 26/02/2009 10/07/2009 21/11/2009 05/04/2010 17/08/2010 30/12 /2010 39
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
The appointment of each Non-Executive Director is terminable on the notice period stated below unless their appointment is 
terminated by a resolution of the shareholders in general meeting or if they fail to be re-elected by shareholders in general meeting in 
which case no notice is necessary.
Their appointments were made as follows:
Director       Date of appointment Notice period
Anthony Bloom       7 October 2004 1 month
Martina King       2 July 2010 1 month
David Maloney       22 May 2006 1 month
Thomas McGrath       16 May 2005 1 month
Rick Senat       2 July 2010 1 month
Matthew Tooth       24 August 2004 1 month
Peter Williams       22 May 2006 1 month
 
Audited Information
Aggregated Directors’ remuneration
The total amounts for Directors’ remuneration were as follows:
Emoluments 
(i) Executive
           2010 2009 
         2010 2009 Total Total 
         Company Company including including 
         contributions contributions contribution contribution 
 2010 2009       to money to money to money to money 
 Fees/ Fees/ 2010 2009     purchase purchase purchase purchase 
 Basic Basic Performance Performance 2010 2009 2010 2009 pension pension pension pension 
 salary salary bonus bonus Benefits Benefits Total Total schemes schemes scheme scheme
Name of Director £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
†
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Stephen Wiener 419
*
 400 343 341 31 37 793 778 84 80 877 858
Richard Jones 246
*
 235 189 189 16 18 451 442 49 47 500 489
 665 635 532 530 47 55 1244 1220 133 127 1377 1347
*  With effect from 1 July 2010, Stephen Wiener’s and Richard Jones’ basic salaries were both increased by 4.4%. 
†  Other benefits include a company car or car allowance, life assurance, permanent health insurance, private medical cover and, for Stephen Wiener only, a driver and, for 
Richard Jones only, fuel for private use.
(ii) Non-Executive
         2010 2009 
         Fees/Basic Fees/Basic 
         salary  salary 
Name of Director         £’000 £’000
Anthony Bloom         100 100
Lawrence Guffey
*
         – 30
Martina King
†
         19 –
David Maloney         51 48
Thomas McGrath         38 38
Alan Roux
*
         29 3
Rick Senat
†
         19 –
Matthew Tooth
*
         33 33
Peter Williams         51 48
         340 300
*  Lawrence Guffey, Alan Roux and Matthew Tooth were appointed by the Blackstone Group and their respective Directors’ fees were payable to the Blackstone Group. 
Alan Roux was appointed a Director on 23 November 2009 in place of Lawrence Guffey. Following the sale by the Blackstone Group of its shareholding in the Company on 
18 November 2010, Alan Roux stepped down from the Board. Matthew Tooth remained a Director in an independent capacity, although his Director’s fees continue to be 
paid to the Blackstone Group. No compensation was paid in respect of Alan Roux’s departure.
†  Martina King and Rick Senat were appointed on 2 July 2010.
During the year, it was agreed that an additional fee of £5,000 p.a. would be paid to each of the Chairman of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees with effect from 1 July 2010. Otherwise there was no increase in the fees paid to the Chairman or the 
Non-Executive Directors. The basic fee for a Non-Executive Director was £33,000 p.a. An additional fee of £5,000 p.a is paid for being 
a member of a particular committee. The Non-Executive Directors do not receive any share options, bonuses or other performance-
related payments nor do they receive any pension entitlement or other benefits. 40
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Share and Share Option Scheme Interests
Details of share options of those Directors who served during the period are as follows:
(a) Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme
  At Granted Exercised Lapsed At  Earliest 
  31 Dec during during during 30 Dec Exercise date of Expiry 
Name of Director  2009 year year year 2010 price exercise date
Stephen Wiener  10,322 – – – 10,322 £0.93 01/12/11 01/05/12
Richard Jones  10,322 – – – 10,322 £0.93 01/12/11 01/05/12
(b) Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan
        Market Vesting 
  At Awarded Vested Lapsed At  value at date or 
  31 Dec during during during 30 Dec Exercise date of execise
Name of Director  2009 year year year 2010 price vesting period
¶
Stephen Wiener  142,308
*
 – – – 142,308 £Nil – 20/03/11
  152,343
†
 – – – 152,343 £Nil – 26/03/12
   109,774
§
 – – 109,774 £Nil – 30/03/13 – 
         30/09/13
Richard Jones  82,692
*
 – – – 82,692 £Nil – 20/03/11
  89,843
†
 – – – 89,843 £Nil – 26/03/12
   64,058
§
 – – 64,058 £Nil  – 30/03/13 – 
          30/09/13
* Mid-market price of a Cineworld Group plc share the day before grant was £1.30.
† Mid-market price of a Cineworld Group plc share the day before grant was £1.28.
§ Mid-market price of a Cineworld Group plc share the day before grant was £1.85.
¶  Subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions (details of which are set on page 37). Awards made during the year were granted as nil cost options rather 
than as conditional awards of shares as in the previous two years.
(c) Cineworld Group Company Share Option Plan
  At Granted Exercised Lapsed At  Earliest 
  31 Dec during during during 30 Dec Exercise date of Expiry 
Name of Director  2009 year year year 2010 price exercise
†
 date
Stephen Wiener  0 5,050
*
 – – 5,050 £1.98 01/07/13 30/06/20
Richard Jones  0 5,050
*
 – – 5,050 £1.98 01/07/13 30/06/20
* HM Revenue and Customs approved share options
† Subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions (details of which are set on page 37).
By order of the Board
Peter Williams
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
10 March 2011 41
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law 
they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law 
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and 
parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; y
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; y
for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; y
for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any  y
material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements; and
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent  y
company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to 
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as 
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions.
The Directors confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole; and
2. the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers’ Review together with the Risks and Uncertainties section, which are incorporated in 
the Directors’ Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
On behalf of the Board
Richard Jones
Chief Financial Officer
10 March 2011 42
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
We have audited the financial statements of Cineworld Group plc for the year ended 30 December 2010 set out on pages 43 to 83. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the company and the company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 41, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and 
express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/UKP.
Opinion on Financial Statements
In our opinion:
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 30 December  y
2010 and of the Group’s and the parent company’s profit for the 52 week period then ended;
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; y
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting  y
Practice;
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the  y
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act  y
2006; and
the information given in the Directors’ Report for the 52 week period then ended for which the financial statements are prepared   y
is consistent with the financial statements; and
the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 31 to 35 with respect to internal control and   y
risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the 
financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to Report by Exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received  y
from branches not visited by us; or
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement  y
with the accounting records and returns; or
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or y
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or y
a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company. y
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
the Directors’ statement, set out on pages 29 and 30, in relation to going concern; y
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 31 to 35 relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions  y
of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review; and
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration.  y
Mark Summerfield (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London
E14 5GL
10 March 2011
 
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the Members of Cineworld Group plc 43
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the Period Ended 30 December 2010
      52 week  53 week 
      period ended period ended  
      30 December  31 December 
      2010  2009 
     Note £m £m
Revenue     2 342.8 333.4
Cost of sales      (259.7) (253.8)
Gross profit      83.1 79.6
Other operating income     3 0.6 0.7
Administrative expenses      (46.6) (40.7)
Operating profit     4 37.1 39.6
Analysed between:   
Operating profit before depreciation, impairments, reversals of impairments  
 and amortisation, onerous lease and other non-recurring or non-cash  
 property charges, transaction and reorganisation costs    59.0 55.7
– Depreciation and amortisation     4 (17.2) (15.3)
– Onerous leases and other non-recurring or non-cash property charges   4 (1.3) (0.4)
– Impairments and reversals of impairments    4 (3.2) –
– Transaction and reorganisation costs     4 (0.2) (0.4)
Finance income     7 1.6 1.2
Finance expenses     7 (8.2) (9.9)
Net finance costs      (6.6) (8.7)
Share of loss of jointly controlled entities using equity accounting method, net of tax   (0.1) (0.1)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax      30.4 30.8
Tax charge on profit on ordinary activities    8 (9.4) (10.4)
Profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company    21.0 20.4
Other comprehensive income
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedge     1.1 0.3
Foreign exchange translation gain/(loss)      0.2 (0.5)
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension schemes    (0.7) 0.8
Income tax on other comprehensive income     (0.1) (0.3)
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of income tax    0.5 0.3
Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company  21.5 20.7
Basic earnings per share     5 14.8p 14.4p
Diluted earnings per share     5 14.7p 14.4p
The Notes on pages 47 to 77 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 44
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
  30 December  31 December 
   2010 
|
  2009
      Note £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment     10  114.2  114.6
Goodwill      11  217.1  216.1
Intangible assets      11  0.4  0.6
Investments in equity-accounted investee    12  0.8  0.9
Other receivables      15  1.4  1.4
Deferred tax assets      13  14.9  16.6
Total non-current assets        348.8  350.2
Current assets
Inventories      14 2.2  1.9
Trade and other receivables      15 23.5  19.9
Cash and cash equivalents       10.6  16.9
Total current assets        36.3  38.7
Total assets        385.1  388.9
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans, borrowings and other financial liabilities   16 (11.7)  (11.9)
Trade and other payables      17 (47.5)  (46.5)
Current taxes payable       (7.9)  (8.9)
Provisions      19 (2.3)  (1.2)
Total current liabilities         (69.4)  (68.5)
Non-current liabilities 
Interest-bearing loans, borrowings and other financial liabilities   16 (99.7)  (109.3)
Other payables      17 (52.5)  (53.5)
Employee benefits      18 –  (0.7)
Provisions      19 (9.6)  (10.6)
Deferred tax liabilities      13 (1.9)  (1.8)
Total non-current liabilities        (163.7)  (175.9)
Total liabilities        (233.1)  (244.4)
                     
Net assets        152.0  144.5
Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company
Share capital      20  1.4  1.4
Share premium        171.4  171.4
Translation reserves      20  1.8  1.6
Hedging reserves      20  (2.8)  (3.9)
Retained deficit        (19.8)  (26.0)
Total equity        152.0  144.5
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 10 March 2011 and were signed on its behalf by:
Stephen Wiener    Richard Jones
Director     Director
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
at 30 December 2010 45
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the Period Ended 30 December 2010
     Issued Share Translation Hedging Retained  
     capital premium reserve reserve deficit Total 
          £m £m      £m £m      £m      £m
Balance at 25 December 2008    1.4 171.4       2.1 (4.2) (33.8) 136.9
Profit for the period     – – – – 20.4 20.4
Other comprehensive income
Movement in fair value of cash-flow hedge   – – – 0.3 – 0.3
Retranslation of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries  – – (0.5) – – (0.5)
Actuarial gain on defined benefit scheme    – – – –  0.8 0.8
Tax recognised on income and expenses recognised  
 directly in equity     – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Contributions by and distributions to owners
Dividends paid in period     – – – – (13.5) (13.5)
Movements due to share-based compensation   – – – – 0.4 0.4
Balance at 31 December 2009    1.4 171.4 1.6 (3.9) (26.0) 144.5
Profit for the period     – – – – 21.0 21.0
Other comprehensive income 
Movement in fair value of cash-flow hedge   – – – 1.1 – 1.1
Retranslation of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries  – – 0.2 – – 0.2
Actuarial loss on defined benefit scheme    – – – – (0.7) (0.7)
Tax recognised on income and expenses recognised directly in equity – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Contributions by and distributions to owners
Dividends paid in period     – – – –  (14.5) (14.5)
Movements due to share-based compensation   – – – – 0.5 0.5
Balance at 30 December 2010    1.4 171.4 1.8 (2.8) (19.8) 152.0 46
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
      52 week  53 week  
      period ended period ended 
       30 December 31 December  
      2010 2009 
     Note £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit for the period      21.0 20.4
 Adjustments for: 
  Financial income     7 (1.6) (1.2)
  Financial expense     7 8.2 9.9
  Taxation     8 9.4 10.4
  Share of loss of equity-accounted investee     0.1 0.1
Operating profit      37.1 39.6
 Depreciation and amortisation     4 17.2 15.3
 Non-cash property charges     4 1.3 0.4
 Impairments and reversals of impairments     3.2 –
 Surplus of pension contributions over current service cost   18 (1.6) (1.6)
 (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables      (3.5) 1.5
 Increase in inventories      (0.3) (0.2)
 (Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables     (0.5) 2.1
 Decrease in provisions and employee benefit obligations     (2.2) (2.5)
Cash generated from operations      50.7 54.6
 Tax paid      (8.7) (4.8)
Net cash flows from operating activities      42.0 49.8
Cash flows from investing activities 
 Interest received      0.1 0.1
 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment     (20.3) (15.6)
Net cash flows from investing activities      (20.2) (15.5)
Cash flows from financing activities 
 Dividends paid to shareholders      (14.5) (13.5)
 Interest paid      (4.0) (7.2)
 Repayment of bank loans      (9.0) (9.0)
 Payment of finance lease liabilities      (0.6) (0.5)
Net cash from financing activities      (28.1) (30.2)
 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents     (6.3) 4.1
 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held     – –
 Cash and cash equivalents at start of period     16.9 12.8
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period     10.6 16.9
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
for the Period Ended 30 December 2010 47
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements)
1 Accounting Policies
Basis of Preparation
Cineworld Group plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated in the UK.
The group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”) and equity 
account the Group’s interest in jointly controlled entities. The parent company financial statements present information about the 
Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the EU (Adopted IFRSs). The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in 
accordance with UK GAAP; these are presented on pages 78 to 83.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements, 
except as described on page 53.
Judgements made by the Directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial 
statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next financial period are set out below.
Information regarding the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position is set out in the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer’s Review and the Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 8 to 
18. The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief Executive and 
Chief Financial Officer’s Review on pages 8 to 15. In addition Note 21 to the financial statements includes the group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments and 
hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
As highlighted in Note 16 to the financial statements, the Group meets its day to day working capital requirements through its  
bank facilities which consist of a £102m term loan plus £30m revolver which matures in 2012. The current economic conditions  
create uncertainty particularly over (a) the level of demand for the Group’s products; and (b) the availability of bank finance in the 
foreseeable future. 
The current bank facility is subject to two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net 
finance charges. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show 
that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facility, including compliance with the bank facility covenants.
Since the end of the period the Group has received commitments from a group of banks for a new five year facility of £170m to replace 
its existing facility which is due to expire in May 2012. The new facility will provide the Group with more flexibility to finance future 
expansion plans as well as other growth opportunities. Documentation is being drafted between the Group and the participating banks 
and all parties are working to complete the process in the near future.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual financial statements.
Measurement Convention
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their  
fair value: derivative financial instruments and financial instruments classified as fair value through the income statement or as 
available-for-sale.
The financial information of subsidiaries is included in the consolidated financial information from the date that control commences 
until the date that control ceases.
Basis of Consolidation
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the 
financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that 
are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account. 
Jointly Controlled Entities (Equity Accounted Investees)
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement and 
requiring the venturers’ unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions. Jointly controlled entities are accounted for 
using the equity method (equity accounted investees) and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s investment includes goodwill 
identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share 
of the total recognised income and expense and equity movements of equity accounted investees, from the date that joint control 
commences until the date that joint control ceases. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted 
investee, the Group’s carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the 
Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an investee. 48
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
1 Accounting Policies continued
Transactions Eliminated on Consolidation 
Intra-Group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are eliminated 
in preparing the consolidated financial statements. 
Use of non-GAAP profit and loss measures
The Group believes that along with operating profit, the following measures:
EBITDA y
Adjusted earnings y
Net debt y
provide additional guidance to the statutory measures of the performance of the business during the financial period. 
EBITDA comprises of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, onerous lease and other non-recurring or non-cash 
property charges, transaction and reorganisation costs and profit on disposal of cinema sites.
Adjusted earnings comprises profit after tax adjusted for certain non-recurring and non-cash items as set out in Note 5.
Net debt represents net borrowings including finance leases and financial liabilities offset by cash.
Foreign Currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that 
date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities 
that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange 
rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at 
foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average 
rate for the period where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations after 23 August 2004 (the date of incorporation) are taken 
directly to the translation reserve. They are released into the income statement upon disposal.
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging
Cash Flow Hedges and Interest Swap Policy
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately 
in the income statement except where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends 
on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance 
sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties. The fair value of 
forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a 
highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in 
the hedging reserve. Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
For cash flow hedges, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the 
same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but 
the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised 
in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the 
cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income immediately.
Non-Derivative Financial Instruments
Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, interest 
bearing borrowings, and trade and other payables.
Trade and Other Receivables
Trade and other receivables were initially measured on the basis of their fair value. Subsequently they are carried at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method less any impairment losses. A bad debt allowance for receivables is established when there is 
objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 49
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
1 Accounting Policies continued
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an 
integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the 
statement of cash flows.
Trade and Other Payables
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method.
Interest‑Bearing Borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in 
the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of 
property, plant and equipment.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance 
leases. Where land and buildings are held under finance leases the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from 
that of the buildings. Leased assets acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and 
the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
Other leases are operating leases. These leased assets are not recognised in the Group’s balance sheet.
Depreciation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income to write assets down to their residual values on a straight-line basis 
over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Land and buildings: Short leasehold properties including leasehold improvements 30 years or life of lease if shorter y
Plant and machinery       3 to 10 years y
Fixtures and fittings       4 to 10 years y
No depreciation is provided on assets held for sale or on assets in the course of construction. 
Depreciation methods, residual values and the useful lives of all assets are reassessed annually.
In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets, the Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of qualifying assets as part of the cost of that asset. The Group has capitalised borrowing costs with 
respect to the construction of new sites.
Business Combinations
In 2009 the Group early adopted IFRS 3 Business Combinations (2008) in accounting for business combinations. The change in 
accounting policy has been applied prospectively and had a negative impact on basic and diluted earnings per share of 0.1p in the 
current period as a result of being required to record transaction costs in the income statement. It has had no effect on adjusted 
earnings per share or adjusted pro-forma earnings per share, as excluding the effect of this transaction forms one of the adjustments.
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill as the fair value of the consideration transferred (including 
the fair value of any previously-held equity interest in the acquire) and the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the 
acquiree, less the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, all measured 
as of the acquisition date. When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in Income Statement. 
Transactions costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a 
business combinations are expensed as incurred. See Note 9 for the application of the new policy to the business combination that 
occurred during the period.
There were no acquisitions in the prior period.
Intangible Assets and Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method. Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of 
subsidiaries. In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since incorporation, goodwill represents the difference between 
the cost of the acquisition and the Group’s interest in the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired. Identifiable intangibles are 
those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are separable. 50
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
1 Accounting Policies continued
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not amortised 
but is tested annually for impairment.
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights 
are separable.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless 
such lives are indefinite. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at 
each balance sheet date. Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. The estimated useful lives are 
as follows:
Brands – 10 years y
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories is based on the First-In, First-Out (“FIFO”) 
principle. Cost comprises expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition, 
and net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated selling costs.
Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets other than inventories and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to 
determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. 
For goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite useful economic life, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance 
sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable 
amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill 
allocated to cash-generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis. A cash 
generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows 
from other assets or groups of assets.
Calculation of Recoverable Amount
The recoverable amount is the greater of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the 
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent 
cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Reversals of Impairment
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment is reversed when there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist as a 
result of a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount, including a change in fair value less costs to sell.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would 
have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Employee Benefits
Defined Contribution Pension Plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount 
of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to 
determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets (at bid price) is deducted. The liability discount rate is the yield at the 
balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Group’s obligations. The 
calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the asset recognised is limited to the present value of benefits available in the 
form of any future refunds from the plan, reductions in future contributions to the plan or settlement of the plan and takes into account 
the adverse effect of any minimum funding requirements.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 51
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
1 Accounting Policies continued
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised 
as an expense in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits 
become vested. To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the statement of 
comprehensive income.
The increase in the present value of the liabilities expected to arise from the employees’ services in the accounting period is charged 
to the income statement. The expected return on the schemes’ assets and the interest on the present value of the schemes’ liabilities 
during the accounting period are shown as finance income and finance expense respectively. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised 
immediately in equity.
Share‑Based Payment Transactions
The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of options granted is 
recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date using the 
Black-Scholes Model and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The 
amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is due 
only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Share appreciation rights are also granted by the Company to employees. The fair value of the amount payable to the employee is 
recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities. The fair value is initially measured at grant date and spread over 
the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment. The fair value of the share appreciation rights is 
measured taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. The liability is remeasured at each 
balance sheet date and at settlement date and any changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, 
provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of 
the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Own shares held by Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”)
Transactions of the Group sponsored EBT are included in the Group financial information. In particular, the trust’s purchase of shares 
in the Company are debited directly to equity.
Revenue
Revenue represents the total amount receivable for goods sold, excluding sales related taxes and intra-Group transactions. All the 
Group’s revenue is received from the sale of goods. 
Box office revenue is recognised on the date of the showing of the film it relates to. y
Concessions revenue is recognised at point of sale. y
Advertising revenue is recognised when the advertisement is shown.  y
Unlimited card revenue is received annually or monthly in advance. When revenue from the Unlimited card is received annually in  y
advance it is recognised on a straight line basis over the year. Monthly Unlimited card revenue is recognised in the period to which 
it relates.
Other revenue is recognised in the period to which it relates. y
Expenses
Virtual Print Fees 
A Virtual Print Fee represents a discount from the cost Cineworld pays for film rental and reflects the cost saving to the studios of the 
move to digital. They are receivable the first time a film is played digital on a screen rather than 35mm film.
Virtual Print Fees (“VPF”) are recognised on the date of the showing of the film it relates to and are included in cost of sales as a 
reduction of the film hire costs.
Operating Lease Payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the 
term of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense. 
Where the Group has operating leases that contain minimum guaranteed rental uplifts over the life of the lease, the Group recognises 
the guaranteed minimum lease payment on a straight line basis over the lease term. 
Finance Lease Payments
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance 
charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance 
of the liability. 52
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
1 Accounting Policies continued
Net Financing Costs
Net financing costs comprise interest payable, amortisation of financing costs, unwind of discount on onerous lease provisions, 
finance lease interest, net gain/loss on remeasurement of interest rate swaps, interest receivable on funds invested, foreign exchange 
gains and losses and finance costs for defined benefit pension schemes.
Sale and Leaseback
Where the Group enters into a sale and leaseback transaction whereby the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets concerned 
have not been substantially transferred to the lessor, any excess of sales proceeds over the previous carrying amount are deferred and 
recognised in the income statement over the lease term. At the date of the transaction the assets and the associated finance lease 
liabilities on the Group’s balance sheet are stated at the lower of fair value of the leased assets and the present value of the minimum 
lease payments. 
Where the Group enters into a sale and leaseback transaction whereby the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets concerned 
have been substantially transferred to the lessor, any excess of sales proceeds over the previous carrying amount is recognised in the 
income statement on completion of the transaction, when the sale and subsequent lease back has been completed at fair value. 
Taxation
Tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method, providing temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not 
provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill; the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable 
profit other than in a business combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably 
not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or 
settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the 
asset can be utilised.
Operating Segments
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur 
expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. An operating 
segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly by the Board of Directors to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the 
segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available. 
Significant Accounting Judgements and Estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the 
application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates.
Estimates
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
In applying the Group’s accounting policies described above the directors have identified that the following areas are the key estimates 
that have a significant impact on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Onerous Leases
Provision is made for onerous leases where it is considered that the unavoidable costs of the lease obligations are in excess of the 
economic benefits expected to be received from operating it. The unavoidable costs of the lease reflect the least net cost of exiting 
from the contract and are measured as the lower of the net cost of continuing to operating the lease and any penalties or other costs 
from exiting it.
When calculating the provision for onerous leases the Group is required to make certain assumptions about the future cash flows to be 
generated from that cinema site. It is also required to discount these cash flows using an appropriate discount rate. The resulting 
provision is therefore very sensitive to these assumptions however, the Directors consider that the assumptions made represent their 
best estimate of the future cash flows generated by onerous cinema sites, and that the discount rate used is appropriate given the 
risks associated with these cash flows.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 53
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
1 Accounting Policies continued
Impairment of Goodwill
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis. This requires an estimate of the value in use of the 
cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the 
expected future cash flows from the cash generating unit that holds the goodwill at a determined discount rate to calculate the present 
value of those cash flows. 
Forecasting expected cash flows, and selecting an appropriate discount rate inherently requires estimation, however management has 
also applied sensitivity analysis to the estimates which does not affect the outcome (see Note 10).
Impairment of Tangible Fixed Assets
The Group determines whether tangible fixed assets are impaired when indicators of impairments exist. This requires an estimate of 
the value in use of the cash generating units to which the tangible fixed assets are allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the 
Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash generating units that holds the tangible fixed assets at a 
determined discount rate to calculate the present value of those cash flows. 
When reviewing fixed assets for impairment, the Group is required to make certain assumptions about the future cash flows to be 
generated from the individual cinema sites. It is also required to discount these cash flows using an appropriate discount rate. The 
resulting calculation is therefore very sensitive to these assumptions. However, the Directors consider that the assumptions made 
represent their best estimate of the future cash flows generated by the cinema sites, and that the discount rate used is appropriate 
given the risks associated with these cash flows.
Employee Post Retirement Benefit Obligations
The Group has two defined benefit pension plans. The obligations under these plans are recognised in the balance sheet and 
represent the present value of the obligations calculated by independent actuaries, with input from management. These actuarial 
valuations include assumptions such as discount rates, return on assets, salary progression and mortality rates. These assumptions 
vary from time to time according to prevailing economic and social conditions. Details of the assumptions used are provided in 
Note 18.
Management consider that the assumptions used are the most appropriate but recognise that the resulting pension liability is very 
sensitive to these assumptions.
Deferred Tax Assets
The Group recognises deferred tax assets for temporary differences arising at the balance sheet date. The Group applies 
estimates when calculating the carrying value of these assets and considering whether future taxable profits are sufficient to ensure 
their recoverability. 
Judgements 
In addition, the Directors are required to make certain judgements when applying the Group’s accounting policies described above. The 
key judgements are:
Finance and Operating Leases
When the Group enters into a new lease it is required to consider whether it bears substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset. 
The Group considers the requirements of IAS 17 “Leases” when determining whether it has an operating or finance lease, and in most 
cases the outcome is clear. 
Hedging Arrangements
The Group enters into interest rate swaps to fix a portion of its exposure to variable interest rates on its loan arrangements. In order to 
apply the hedge accounting provisions of IAS 39 “Financial Instruments”, the Group must consider the effectiveness of its hedging 
arrangements when deciding whether they can hedge account.
New standards and Interpretations
With effect from 1 January 2010 the Group adopted the following pronouncements:
IFRS 8 (Amendment) “Operating Segments – Disclosure about information about segment assets”; IFRS 8 was amended to state that 
segment information for total assets is only required if such information is regularly reported to the chief operating decision-maker 
(“CoDM”). There has been no effect on the consolidated financial statements as the Group has only one operating segment.
IAS 7 (Amendment) “Statement of Cash flows – Classification of expenditures on unrecognised assets”; IAS 7 was amended to state 
explicitly that only expenditure that results initially in the recognition of an asset may be classified as a cash flow from investing 
activities. The effect of the adoption of this standard is that transaction expenditures have now been classified differently in the 
statement of cash flows.
IAS 36 (Amendment) “Impairments of Assets – Unit of accounting for goodwill impairment test”; the standards was amended to 
confirm that the largest unit to which goodwill can be allocated is the operating segment level, as defined in IFRS 8, before applying the 
aggregation criteria. The Group has reconsidered the allocation of goodwill in the current year (see Note 11).  54
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
1 Accounting Policies continued
The Directors considered the impact of other new and revised accounting standards, interpretations or amendments on the Group that 
are currently endorsed but not yet effective. It was concluded that none were relevant to the Group’s results. 
2 Operating Segments
Determination and presentation of operating segments:
Further to the adoption of IFRS 8, the Group has determined that it has one operating segment and therefore one reportable segment 
being cinema operations. All the disclosable operating segment information required by IFRS8 can be found in the primary statements.
Revenue by destination and by origin from countries other than the UK in all financial periods was not material. Likewise non-current 
assets located in other countries other than the UK in all financial periods are not material.
Entity Wide Disclosures: 
      52 week  53 week 
      period  ended  period  ended 
      30 December  31 December 
      2010 2009 
      Total Total 
Revenue by product and service provided      £m £m
Box office      235.8 230.9
Retail      81.6 84.4
Other      25.4 18.1
Total revenue      342.8 333.4
All revenue streams are driven by admissions. The Group’s internal management reporting and operations are not separated into 
these categories.
3 Other Operating Income
      52 week  53 week 
      period  ended  period  ended 
      30 December  31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
 
Rental income      0.6 0.7
      0.6 0.7
4 Operating Profit 
Included in operating profit for the period are the following:
      52 week  53 week 
      period  ended  period  ended 
      30 December  31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
Depreciation      17.0
*
   15.2
*
Impairments      4.5
*
   –
Reversals of impairments      (1.3)
*
 –
Amortisation of intangibles (Note 11)      0.2
*
   0.1
*
Onerous lease and other non-recurring or non-cash property charges     1.3
†
  0.4
†
Transaction and reorganisation costs      0.2
*
  0.4
*
Hire of other assets – operating leases      46.5
§
  46.0
§
* Included in administrative expenses.
† £0.8m (2009: £nil) is included in administrative costs. The balance is included in cost of sales.
§ £0.9m (2009: £1.0m) is included in administrative costs. The balance is included in cost of sales.
See Note 10 for details of impairments and impairment reversals.
In 2010 there were dilapidations charges of £0.8m (2009: £nil), a net £nil charge on onerous leases following changes in trading 
assumptions (2009: credit of £0.5m) and non-cash property charges of £0.5m (2009: £0.9m).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 55
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
4 Operating Profit continued
In 2010, transaction and reorganisation costs relate to professional fees incurred in connection with the O2 acquisition. In 2009 they 
relate to professional fees incurred in connection with an aborted acquisition. 
The total remuneration of the Group auditor’s, KPMG Audit Plc, and its affiliates for the services to the Group is analysed below.
      52 week  53 week 
      period  ended  period  ended 
      30 December  31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £000 £000
Auditors’ remuneration: 
Group – audit      196 190
Company – audit      5 5
Amounts received by auditors and their associates in respect of:
– Audit of financial statements pursuant to legislation     201 195
– Audit related regulatory reporting      41 45
      242 240
– Other services relating to taxation      226 197
– Valuation and actuarial services      34  20
– Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into by or on behalf of the Company or the Group 86 49
– Other      7 –
5 Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, after excluding the weighted average number of non-vested ordinary shares 
held by the employee ownership trust. Adjusted pro-forma earnings per share is calculated in the same way except that the profit for 
the period attributable to ordinary shareholders is adjusted by adding back the amortisation of intangible assets, the cost of share-
based payments, any other one-off income or expense and applying a tax charge at the statutory rate, to the adjusted profit.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, after excluding the weighted average number of non-vested ordinary 
shares held by the employee share ownership trust and after adjusting for the effects of dilutive options.
      52 week  53 week 
      period  ended  period  ended 
      30 December  31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders      21.0 20.4
Adjustments : 
 Amortisation of intangible assets      0.2 0.1
 Share-based payments       0.5 0.4
 Transaction and reorganisation costs      0.2 0.4
 Impairments and reversals of impairments      3.2 –
 Impact of straight lining of operating leases     0.5 0.9
 Dilapidations costs      0.8 –
Adjusted earnings      (52 weeks) 26.4 (53 weeks) 22.2
 Add back tax charge      9.4 10.4
Adjusted pro-forma profit before tax      (52 weeks) 35.8 (53 weeks) 32.6
 Less estimated impact of 53rd week in period     – (0.6)
 Less tax at statutory rate (28%)      (10.0) (9.0)
Adjusted pro-forma profit after tax     (52 weeks) 25.8 (52 weeks) 23.0
                                     56
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
5 Earnings Per Share continued
      52 week  53 week 
      period ended  period ended 
      30 December  31 December 
      2010 2009 
      Number of Number of 
      shares (m) shares (m)
Weighted average number of shares in issue      141.7 141.7
Basic and adjusted earnings per share denominator      141.7 141.7
Dilutive options       1.1 –
Diluted earnings per share denominator       142.8 141.7
Shares in issue at period end       141.7 141.7
      Pence Pence
Basic earnings per share      (52 weeks) 14.8 (53 weeks) 14.4
Diluted earnings per share      (52 weeks) 14.7 (53 weeks) 14.4
Adjusted pro-forma basic earnings per share     (52 weeks) 18.2 (52 weeks) 16.2
Adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share     (52 weeks) 18.1 (52 weeks) 16.2
6 Staff Numbers and Costs
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the period, analysed by category, was as follows:
     Number of staff
      2010 2009
Head office      138 131
Cinemas      4,487 4,350
      4,625 4,481
Included in the average number of persons employed by the Group are part-time employees. No distinction is made between full-time 
and part-time employees in the analysis above.
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
      52 week  53 week 
      period  ended  period  ended 
      30 December  31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
Wages and salaries      48.1 46.8
Social security costs      3.3 3.1
Other pension costs – Defined contribution     0.4 0.4
Share-based payments (see Note 18)      0.5 0.4
      52.3 50.7
See pages 36 to 40 for Directors’ remuneration.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 57
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
7 Finance Income and Expense
      52 week  53 week 
      period  ended  period  ended 
      30 December  31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
Interest income      0.3 0.2
Expected return on defined benefit pension plan assets (Note 18)    1.3 1.0
Finance income      1.6 1.2
Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts     4.1 5.3
Amortisation of financing costs      0.4 0.3
Unwind of discount on onerous lease provision     1.0 1.1
Finance cost for defined benefit pension scheme (Note 18)    1.5 1.5
Interest charge as a result of change in discount rate relating to onerous lease provisions  0.8 1.2
Other financial costs      0.4 0.5
Finance expense       8.2 9.9
Net finance costs      6.6 8.7
Recognised within other comprehensive income:
      52 week  53 week 
      period  ended  period  ended 
      30 December  31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
Movement in fair value of interest rate swap     1.1 0.3
Foreign exchange translation gain/(loss)      0.2 (0.5)
Finance income      1.3 (0.2)
No borrowing costs were capitalised in the 52 week period ending 30 December 2010 (2009: £0.1m) since there were no significant 
assets under construction during the period, see Note 10.
8 Taxation
Recognised in the Income Statement
      52 week  53 week 
      period  ended  period  ended 
      30 December  31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
Current tax expense
Current year      8.3 7.1
Adjustments in respect of prior years      (0.6) 1.7
Total current tax expense      7.7 8.8
Deferred tax expense  
Origination and reversal of temporary differences     1.7 1.6
Total tax charge in income statement      9.4 10.4 58
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
8 Taxation continued
Reconciliation of Effective Tax Rate
      52 week  53 week 
      period  ended  period  ended 
      30 December  31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
Profit before tax      30.4 30.8
Tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 28% (2009: 28%)    8.5 8.6
Differences in overseas tax rates      (0.1) (0.2)
Accelerated capital allowances in excess of depreciation     1.1 0.3
Adjustments in respect of prior years      (0.6) 1.7
Effect of change in statutory rate to 27% on deferred tax     0.5 –
Total tax charge in income statement      9.4 10.4
During the period there was a deferred tax charge of £0.1m (2009: £0.3m) recognised directly in equity in connection with the actuarial 
loss on the defined benefit scheme and the decrease in the fair value of the cash flow hedge on part of the Group’s bank loans, 
together with the impact of those items of the change in statutory rate; see Note 13.
Factors that may affect future tax charges
As at 30 December 2010 the Group had potential tax assets relating to the following:
other non-trading losses of approximately £2.6m (2009: £2.6m) y
capital losses of approximately £7.6m (2009: £7.6m) y
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of non-trading and capital losses carried forward as it is unclear whether 
non-trading income or capital gains against which the losses may be offset will arise in the Group for the foreseeable future. The net 
tax benefit of utilising any of the above losses is expected to amount to approximately 27% of the losses utilised.
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures where the Group controls the timing of 
remittance and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
The government has announced further corporation tax deductions in 2012–2015 declining in 1% increments to 24%.
9. Purchase of Trade and Assets
On 25 June 2010 Cineworld purchased the trade and assets (largely fixtures, fittings, plant and machinery) of the cinema complex 
located within The O2 in Greenwich, London, for £4.0m satisfied in cash. As part of the agreement Cineworld also signed a 25 year 
lease on the cinema site at a market rate.
The acquisitions had the following provisional effect on the Company’s assets and liabilities.
     Pre-acquisition  Provisional 
     carrying Fair value fair values  
     amounts adjustments on acquisition 
     £m £m £m
Acquiree’s net assets at the acquisition date:  
Fixtures, fittings, plant and equipment     8.0 (5.0) 3.0
Net identifiable assets and liabilities       3.0
Goodwill on acquisition       1.0
Consideration paid, satisfied in cash       4.0
Net cash outflow       4.0
The Goodwill of £1.0m represents the opportunity for synergies from the combined operations as well as the employees transferred in 
connection with the business.
Transaction costs of £0.2m have been expensed in the period. The Group has assessed the fair value of the assets acquired at £3.0m 
based on appropriate valuation methodology.
Revenue of £3.0m relating to the acquiree was included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the 
reporting period. If the acquisition had occurred at the beginning of the financial period approximately £4.1m revenue would relate 
to the acquiree.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 59
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
10 Property, Plant and Equipment 
      Assets in the 
   Land and Plant and Fixtures and course of 
   buildings machinery fittings construction Total 
   £m £m £m £m £m
Cost      
Balance at 25 December 2008   83.3 33.6 42.0 0.3 159.2
Additions   0.8 4.9 7.5 4.3 17.5
Disposals   – (0.2) (2.0) – (2.2)
Transfers   4.6 – – (4.6) –
Effects of movement in foreign exchange   (0.2) (0.1) (0.7) – (1.0)
Balance at 31 December 2009   88.5 38.2 46.8 – 173.5
Additions   2.1 10.6 7.3 – 20.0
Disposals   – (2.6) (5.0) – (7.6)
Transfers   – – – – –
Effects of movement in foreign exchange   (0.2) (0.1) (0.5) – (0.8)
Balance at 30 December 2010   90.4 46.1 48.6 – 185.1
Accumulated depreciation and impairment     
Balance at 25 December 2008   8.9 13.2 24.5 – 46.6
Charge for the period   4.8 4.7 5.7 – 15.2
Disposals   – (0.2) (2.0) – (2.2)
Effects of movement in foreign exchange   (0.1) (0.1) (0.5) – (0.7)
Balance at 31 December 2009   13.6 17.6 27.7 – 58.9
Charge for the period   5.0 5.8 6.2 – 17.0
Disposals   – (2.6) (5.0) – (7.6)
Effects of movement in foreign exchange   (0.1) (0.1) (0.4) – (0.6)
Impairments   3.7 0.6 0.2 – 4.5
Reversal of impairments   (1.3) – – – (1.3)
Balance at 30 December 2010   20.9 21.3 28.7 – 70.9
Net book value      
At 25 December 2008   74.4 20.4 17.5 0.3 112.6
At 31 December 2009   74.9 20.6 19.1 – 114.6
At 30 December 2010   69.5 24.8 19.9 – 114.2
Land and Buildings are made up of short leasehold properties encompassing leasehold improvements.
Of the £20m of additions during the year, £10.5m relates to the acquisition and installation of digital projection equipment.
The net book value of assets held under a finance lease is:
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
The net book value of assets held under finance leases comprised:  
Opening net book value      5.1 5.4
Depreciation charge      (0.2) (0.3)
Closing net book value      4.9 5.1
The above assets held under finance leases relate to a finance lease held on one cinema site which is included within land and buildings.
No interest (2009: £0.1m) has been capitalised during the period because only a minimal amount of work relating to the construction 
of a new site took place in the period. 60
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
10 Property, Plant and Equipment continued
With respect to the tangible fixed asset disposals, no proceeds were receivable in the period.
Impairment
The Group considers each Cinema site to be a cash generating unit (“CGU”) and each CGU is reviewed annually for indicators of 
impairment. In assessing whether an asset has been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU is compared to its recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. In the absence of any information about 
the fair value of a CGU, the recoverable amount is deemed to be its value in use. The Group estimates value in use using a discounted 
cash flow model, which applies a pre-tax discount rate of 9.5% (2009: 10.1%). The future cash flows are based on assumptions from 
the business plans and cover a five year period. Cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using the assumptions used in the 
impairment model (see Note 11). The £4.5m impairment loss was caused by trading not reaching expectations for the foreseeable 
future in relation to two cinema sites.
Impairment Reversals
Following an improvement in trading performance and an increase in the estimated future cash flows of previously impaired sites, 
reversals of £1.3m have been recognised at three sites.
Sensitivity to Changes in Assumptions
The level of impairment is predominantly dependent upon judgements used in arriving at future growth rates and the discount rate 
applied to cash flow projections. The impact on the impairment charge of applying different assumptions to the growth rates used in 
the five year business plan and in the discount rates would be as follows:
       £m
Impairment if business plan growth rates were reduced by 1% for first five years    4.8
Impairment if discount rate was increased by 1%      4.6
11 Intangible Assets
     Goodwill Brand Total 
     £m £m £m
Cost   
Balance at 25 December 2008     223.8 1.2 225.0
Balance at 31 December 2009     223.8 1.2 225.0
Additions     1.0 – 1.0
Balance at 30 December 2010     224.8 1.2 226.0
Accumulated amortisation and impairment 
Balance at 25 December 2008     7.7 0.5 8.2
Amortisation     – 0.1 0.1
Balance at 31 December 2009     7.7 0.6 8.3
Amortisation     – 0.2 0.2
Balance at 30 December 2010     7.7 0.8 8.5
Net book value 
At 25 December 2008     216.1 0.7 216.8
At 31 December 2009     216.1 0.6 216.7
At 30 December 2010     217.1 0.4 217.5
Impairment Testing
Each individual cinema is considered to be a CGU. However, for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, it is acceptable under 
IAS 36 to group CGUs. Furthermore, the ex-Cine-UK and ex-UGC (including Dublin) businesses are now fully integrated, meaning that 
goodwill is now monitored on a Group wide level. The following assumptions have been applied to both individual CGUs when testing for 
impairment of PPE and groups of CGUs for goodwill impairment testing.
The recoverable amount of Cineworld has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That calculation uses cash flow 
projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a one-year period. Cash flows beyond the first year period 
have been extrapolated using the below assumptions. This growth rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the 
market in which Cineworld operates. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 61
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
11 Intangible Assets continued
The key assumptions behind the impairment review are as follows:
2011 forecast earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortisation (“EBITDA”) was used as the basis of the future cash flow 
calculation. This is adjusted to add back rent (EBITDAR) and essential capex on existing sites. In line with long-term industry growth 
rates, EBITDAR is assumed to grow at 3% per annum for the first five years. Thereafter for the purposes of the annual impairment 
review, it is assumed that the growth rate will decline over the remaining 15 years of cash flows, and EBITDA will decline over the final 
five years.
Property costs are factored into the model, but are assumed to grow at 2.5% per annum over the life of the model. Cash flows are not 
assumed in perpetuity. 
The Group has discounted forecast flows using a pre-tax discount rate of 9.5% being a market participant’s discount rate. This is 
considered to reflect the risks associated with the relevant cash flows.
Management have sensitised the key assumptions including the discount rate and under base case and sensitised case no indicators 
of impairment exist. Management believes that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which Cineworld’s 
recoverable amount is based would not cause Cineworld’s carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
Amortisation Charge
The amortisation of intangible assets is recognised in the following line items in the income statement:
      52 week 53 week 
      period ended  period ended 
      30 December 31 December 
      2010  2009 
      £m £m
Administrative expenses      0.2 0.1
12 Investment in Equity Accounted Investee
The Group has the following investment in a jointly controlled entity:
     Country of Class of 
     Incorporation shares held Ownership
Digital Cinema Media Limited     England Ordinary 50% 
     and Wales
On 8 February 2008 the Group jointly formed Digital Cinema Media Limited (“DCM”) with Odeon Cinemas Holdings Limited (“Odeon”). 
On 10 July 2008 DCM acquired certain trade and assets (substantially employees, computer systems, leasehold office and existing 
contracts) from Carlton Screen Advertising Limited, the Group’s former advertising supplier.
Under the terms of the shareholder agreement between the Group and Odeon, key business decisions in respect of DCM require the 
unanimous approval of the shareholders. As a consequence, the Directors of the Group do not have total management control of DCM, 
therefore the Group’s investment is accounted for as a joint venture.
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
Cost      0.9 0.9
Share of post acquisition reserves      – 0.1
      0.9 1.0
Share of post tax loss      (0.1) (0.1)
Carrying value      0.8 0.9 62
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
12 Investment in Equity Accounted Investee continued
Summary aggregated financial information on jointly controlled entities – 100%:
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
Current assets       13.5 14.7
Non-current assets      1.8 1.8
Current liabilities      (13.2) (10.5)
Non-current liabilities      (2.3) (6.0)
Net (liabilities)/assets      (0.2) –
Income      44.5 41.9
Expenses      (44.7) (42.1)
Net loss      (0.2) (0.2)
Screen advertising represents an important part of the Group’s revenue streams and the joint venture partners recognise the 
importance of protecting this revenue stream. The joint venture partners are able to reduce their share of the advertising income if 
deemed necessary to support DCM.
13 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
 Assets 
||
 Liabilities 
||
 Net
  30 December 31 December 30 December 31 December 30 December 31 December 
  2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment  3.9 5.7 (2.5) (3.1) 1.4 2.6
Intangible assets  – – (0.1) (0.2) (0.1) (0.2)
Employee benefits  0.3 0.4 – – 0.3 0.4
Reverse premiums  2.8 2.9 – – 2.8 2.9
Effect of straight lining operating lease accruals 7.9 8.1 – – 7.9 8.1
Interest rate swap  0.7 1.0 – – 0.7 1.0
Tax assets/(liabilities)  15.6 18.1 (2.6) (3.3) 13.0 14.8
Set off tax  (0.7) (1.5) 0.7 1.5 – –
Net tax assets/(liabilities)  14.9 16.6 (1.9) (1.8) 13.0 14.8
See Note 8 for details of unrecognised tax assets.
Deferred taxation provided for in the financial statements at the period end represents provision at 27% (2009: 28%) on the above 
items. The effect of the change in statutory rate from 28% to 27% resulted in a £0.5m charge recognised in income. In line with 
government announcements (see Note 8), a further reduction in the net deferred asset is expected.
A review of the deferred tax will be performed at each balance date and adjustments made in the event of a change in any key assumptions.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 63
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
13 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities continued
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
    31 December Recognised Recognised 30 December 
    2009 in income in equity 2010 
    £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment    2.6 (1.2) – 1.4
Intangible assets    (0.2) 0.1 – (0.1)
Employee benefits    0.4 (0.3) 0.2 0.3
Reverse premiums    2.9 (0.1) – 2.8
Effect of straight lining operating lease accruals   8.1 (0.2) – 7.9
Interest rate swap    1.0 – (0.3) 0.7
Tax assets/(liabilities)    14.8 (1.7) (0.1) 13.0
    25 December Recognised Recognised 31 December 
    2008 in income in equity 2009 
    £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment    4.0 (1.4) – 2.6
Intangible assets    (0.2) – – (0.2)
Employee benefits    0.9 (0.3) (0.2) 0.4
Reverse premiums    3.1 (0.2) – 2.9
Effect of straight lining operating lease accruals   7.8 0.3 – 8.1
Interest rate swap    1.1 – (0.1) 1.0
Tax assets/(liabilities)    16.7 (1.6) (0.3) 14.8
14 Inventories
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
Goods for resale      2.2 1.9
      2.2 1.9
Goods for resale recognised in cost of sales in the period amounted to £19.1m (2009: £17.0m).
15 Trade and Other Receivables
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
Current      £m £m
Trade receivables      2.4 1.2
Other receivables      1.2 0.3
Prepayments and accrued income      19.9 18.4
      23.5 19.9
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
Non-current      £m £m
Land lease premiums      0.9 0.9
Loan to jointly controlled entity      0.5 0.5
      1.4 1.4 64
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
16 Interest-Bearing Loans and Borrowings and Other Financial Liabilities
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. 
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
Non-current liabilities 
Interest rate swaps      0.5 1.3
Unsecured bank loan, less issue costs of debt to be amortised    93.0 101.7
Liabilities under finance leases      6.2 6.3
      99.7 109.3
Current liabilities 
Interest rate swaps      2.3 2.6
Unsecured bank loans, less issue costs of debt to be amortised    8.8 8.7
Liabilities under finance leases      0.6 0.6
      11.7 11.9
The terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows:
   30 December 2010 
| ||||
 31 December 2009
      Face Carrying Face Carrying 
    Nominal Year of value amount value amount 
   Currency interest rate maturity £m £m £m £m
Unsecured bank loan   GBP LIBOR + 0.7% 2012 102.0 101.8 111.0 110.4
Finance lease liability   GBP 7.2% 2029 6.8 6.8 6.9 6.9
Total interest bearing liabilities     108.8 108.6 117.9 117.3
On 26 April 2007 the bank loans were refinanced with a new term loan of £135m for a term of five years and interest charged at 
0.70% (2009: 0.95%) above LIBOR based on the current position with respect to the covenants. The range payable above LIBOR is 
0.7%–1.35% depending on the covenant headroom. The balance of the loan at 30 December 2010 was £102m. In addition to the term 
loan, the Group has a £30m revolver facility.
See Note 21 for bank loan maturity analysis.
Finance Lease Liabilities
The maturity of obligations under finance leases is as follows:
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
Within one year      0.6 0.6
Between one and two years      0.6 0.6
In the second to fifth years      1.8 1.7
Over five years      9.8 10.4
      12.8 13.3
Less future finance charges      (6.0) (6.4)
      6.8 6.9
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 65
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
16 Interest-Bearing Loans and Borrowings and Other Financial Liabilities continued
Analysis of net debt
   Cash at bank Bank Finance Interest 
   and in hand loans leases rate swap Net debt 
   £m £m £m £m £m
At 25 December 2008   12.8 (119.1) (6.9) (4.2) (117.4)
Cash flows   4.1 9.0 0.5 – 13.6
Non-cash movement   – (0.3) (0.5) 0.3 (0.5)
At 31 December 2009   16.9 (110.4) (6.9) (3.9) (104.3)
Cash flows   (6.3) 9.0 0.6 – 3.3
Non-cash movement   – (0.4) (0.5) 1.1 0.2
At 30 December 2010   10.6 (101.8) (6.8) (2.8) (100.8)
The non-cash movements relating to bank loans represent the amortisation of debt issuance costs.
17 Trade and Other Payables
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009  
      £m £m
Current 
Trade payables      12.3 21.8
Other payables      5.5 4.7
Accruals and deferred income      29.7 20.0
      47.5 46.5
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009  
      £m £m
Non current 
Accruals and deferred income      52.5 53.5
Non-current accruals and deferred income include reverse-lease premiums and an accrual for straight lining operating leases. 
18 Employee Benefits
Pension Plans
The Group operates two externally funded defined benefit pension schemes, one in the United Kingdom, the MGM Pension Scheme, 
and one in Ireland, the Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan.
MGM Scheme
The Scheme is a funded Scheme of the defined benefit type, providing retirement benefits based on final salary. The Scheme closed to 
future accrual from 31 May 2009, though the link to final pay at retirement was retained.
The valuation used for IAS19 disclosures has been based on a full assessment of the liabilities of the Scheme as at 5 April 2009. The 
present values of the defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost and any past service costs were measured using the 
projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses have been recognised in the period in which they occur, (but outside the Income Statement), through Other 
Comprehensive Income.
Following the UK Government’s announcement in summer 2010, the inflation index to be used to derive statutory pension increases 
has been changed from the Retail Prices Index (“RPI”) to the Consumer Prices Index (“CPI”). Due to differences between the indices, 
including both constituents and construction, CPI is expected to be less than RPI over the long term which means that the Scheme 
liabilities will reduce. After the period end, the Company and Trustees received legal advice that the Government’s change to statutory 
indexation will apply automatically to pensions in deferment and to pension increases in payment on certain tranches of pension. The 
reduction in the value placed on the Scheme’s liability, estimated at £0.9m, will be treated as a negative past service cost in the 2011 
Statement of Comprehensive Income. 
The Company made contributions of £1.6m during 2010 (2009: £1.6m). 66
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
18 Employee Benefits continued
Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan
The Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan is closed to new entrants and therefore the current service cost is £nil.  
The trustees of the Adelphi-Carlton Contributory Pension Plan have not agreed that any surplus on the plan can be refunded to  
the Company. Accordingly the surplus has not been recognised. The Scheme has a surplus of £0.6m as at 30 December 2010  
(2009: £0.6m).
Actuaries for Adelphi-Carlton Limited carried out the last actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 1 April 2007. Based on this 
assessment, the actuarial value of the assets of the scheme was more than sufficient to cover 100% of the benefits that had accrued 
to members. In view of this, a suspension of Company contributions was in force from 1 April 2001 to 30 December 2010. Total 
contributions for the 53 weeks ended 31 December 2009 and 52 weeks ended 30 December 2010 were £nil and £nil, respectively. 
The net surplus/(deficit) in the pension scheme is:
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009  
      £m £m
MGM Pension scheme      – (0.7)
Net surplus/(deficit)      – (0.7)
MGM Pension Scheme
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009  
      £m £m
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations     (28.3) (26.6)
Fair value of plan assets      28.3 25.9
Surplus/(deficit) in scheme      – (0.7)
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation:
      52 week 53 week 
      period ended period ended 
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
At beginning of period      (26.6) (24.4)
Interest cost      (1.5) (1.5)
Contributions by scheme participants      – (0.1)
Actuarial loss      (1.4)  (1.7)
Benefits paid      1.2 1.1
At end of period      (28.3) (26.6)
Movements in fair value of plan assets:
      52 week 53 week 
      period ended period ended 
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
At start of period      25.9 21.8
Expected return on plan assets      1.3 1.0
Actuarial gains      0.7 2.5
Contributions by employer      1.6 1.6
Contributions by members      – 0.1
Benefits paid      (1.2) (1.1)
At end of period      28.3 25.9
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 67
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
18 Employee Benefits continued
Income/(expense) recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income:
      52 week 53 week 
      period ended period ended 
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
Interest on defined benefit pension plan obligation     (1.5) (1.5)
Expected return on defined benefit pension plan assets     1.3 1.0
Total      (0.2) (0.5)
The income/(expense) is recognised in the following line items in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income:
      52 week 53 week 
      period ended period ended 
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
Financial expenses      (1.5) (1.5)
Financial income      1.3 1.0
Total      (0.2) (0.5)
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income:
      52 week 53 week 
      period ended period ended 
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the period     (0.7) 0.8
Cumulative amount at start of period      1.0 0.2
Cumulative amount at end of period      0.3 1.0
The fair value of the plan assets and the return on those assets were as follows:
    Long-term 52 week Long-term 53 week 
    rate of return period ended rate of return period ended 
    expected at 30 December expected at 31 December 
    30 December 2010 31 December 2009 
    2010 £m 2009 £m
Equities    7.70% 13.5 8.00% 11.6
Property    7.20% 0.4 n/a n/a
Fixed interest bonds    4.20% – 4.50% –
Index linked bonds    4.00% 7.1 4.25% 5.1
Corporate bonds    5.20% 6.0 5.50% 8.0
Other    1.40% 1.3 1.00% 1.2
     28.3  25.9 68
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
18 Employee Benefits continued
Cineworld Cinemas Limited employs a building block approach in determining the long-term rate of return on pension plan assets. 
Historical markets are studied and assets with higher volatility are assumed to generate higher returns consistent with widely accepted 
capital market principles. The assumed long-term rate of return on each asset class is set out within this note. The overall expected 
rate of return on assets is then derived by aggregating the expected return for each asset class over the actual asset allocation for the 
Scheme at the accounting date.
      52 week 53 week 
      period ended period ended 
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
Expected return on scheme assets      1.3 1.0
Actuarial gains      0.7 2.5
Actual return on plan assets      2.0 3.5
Principal actuarial assumptions (expressed as weighted averages):
      52 week 53 week 
      period ended period ended 
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
      % %
RPI Inflation      3.8 3.9
CPI Inflation      2.9 –
Rate of general long-term increase in salaries     4.8 4.9
Rate of increase to pensions in payment      2.6–3.9 2.7–4.0
Discount rate for scheme liabilities      5.4 5.7
The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables which allow for future mortality improvements. The assumptions are 
that a member currently aged 65 will live on average for a further 22.0 years if they are male and for a further 24.0 years if they are 
female. For a member who retires in ten years at age 65 the assumptions are that they will live on average for a further 23.2 years 
after retirement if they are male and for a 25.2 years after retirement if they are female.
History of Plans
The history of the plans for the current and prior periods is as follows:
Balance Sheet
   52 week 53 week 52 week 52 week 52 week 
   period ended period ended period ended period ended period ended 
   30 December 31 December 25 December 27 December 28 December 
   2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 
   £m £m £m £m £m
Present value of defined benefit obligation  (28.3) (26.6) (24.4) (26.6) (26.4)
Fair value of plan assets   28.3 25.9 21.8 24.2 21.8
Surplus/(deficit)   – (0.7) (2.6) (2.4) (4.6)
Experience Adjustments
   52 week 53 week 52 week 52 week 52 week 
   period ended period ended period ended period ended period ended 
   30 December 31 December 25 December 27 December 28 December 
   2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 
   £m £m £m £m £m
Experience gain/(loss) on plan assets   0.7 2.5 (4.4) 0.3 0.3
Experience gain/(loss) on plan liabilities   0.2 2.7 – – (1.8)
The Group expects to contribute approximately £1.6m to its defined benefit plans in the next financial period. 
Defined Contribution Plans
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans.
The total expense relating to these plans in the current year was £0.4m (2009: £0.4m)
Share-Based Payments
As at 30 December 2010 there were three types of share option and share schemes: the Employee Sharesave Scheme, the Cineworld 
Group Performance Share Plan and the Company Share Option Plan.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 69
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
18 Employee Benefits continued
Employee Sharesave Scheme
Grants were made under the sharesave scheme in 2007 and 2008.
The fair value is measured at the grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitiled to 
the options.
Period ended 31 December 2009
A charge of £62,000 was recorded in the income statement for the period in respect of both the 2007 and 2008 Sharesave scheme grants.
Period ended 30 December 2010
A charge of £30,000 was recorded in the income statement for the period in respect of both the 2007 and 2008 Sharesave scheme grants.
The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) 
Period ended 31 December 2009
Under the PSP, awards of conditional shares or nil cost options can be made that vest or become exercisable after three years subject 
to continued employment and generally the achievement of specified performance conditions as follows:
30% of the shares under the award will vest if the average annual growth in earnings per share (“EPS”) (calculated by comparing the  y
EPS for the financial year ended 25 December 2008 and the EPS for the financial year ending 29 December 2011) is not less 
than 3.2%
100% of the shares under the Award will vest if the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial  y
year ended 25 December 2008 and the EPS for the financial year ending 29 December 2011) is at least 9.2%
Where the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 25 December 2008 and the  y
EPS for the financial year ending 29 December 2011) is between the two limits above, the Award shall vest on a straight-line basis 
between 30% and 100%. 
Grants were made under the PSP scheme on 26 March 2009. Under these grants, awards over 242,186 shares were made with the 
conditions above. Further awards over 137,451 shares were made which will vest after three years subject to continued employment 
only, with no specified performance conditions attached.
EPS for the 2009 grant was defined as adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the financial statements.
A charge of £387,000 was recorded in the income statement in respect of the 2008 and 2009 PSP schemes. 
Period ended 30 December 2010
Further grants were made under the PSP scheme on 30 March 2010. Under these grants, awards over 252,654 shares were made in 
total. Awards over 173,832 shares were made with the same performance conditions as the 2009 grant, but with reference to the 
financial years 31 December 2009 to 30 December 2012. Further awards over 78,822 shares were made which will vest after three 
years subject to continued employment only, with no specified performance conditions attached.
EPS for the 2010 grant was defined as adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the financial statements.
A charge of £484,000 was recorded in the income statement in respect of the 2008, 2009 and 2010 PSP schemes. 
The Company Share Option Plan (“CSOP”)
Period ended 30 December 2010
The first two grants under the CSOP took place on 1 July 2010. Under these grants awards over 75,750 shares were made in total. 
Awards over 10,100 shares were made with the same conditions as the 2010 PSP grant. Awards over 65,650 shares were made with 
no performance conditions attached.
EPS for the 2010 grant was defined as adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the financial statements.
The shares were valued using the Black-Scholes Model. A charge of £6,000 was recorded in the income statement in respect of 
shares granted under the CSOP. 70
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
18 Employee Benefits continued
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options in equity settled schemes are as follows:
    Weighted average  Number Weighted average Number 
    exercise price of options exercise price of options 
    2010 (£) 2010 2009 (£) 2009 
    Equity settled Equity settled Equity settled Equity settled
Outstanding at the beginning of the year    0.44  1,378,886  0.67 1,085,819
Exercised during the year    1.63 (20,088) –
Granted during the year    0.46 328,404 – 379,637
Lapsed during the year    1.13 (81,687) 1.27 (86,570)
Outstanding at the end of the year    0.40 1,605,515 0.44 1,378,886
Exercisable at the end of the year    1.63 32,880 – –
The average share price during 2010 was £1.92 (2009: £1.40).
Assumptions relating to grants of share options in 2009 were:
    Share price Exercise Expected Expected Dividend Risk free Fair 
Scheme name   Date of grant at grant (£) price (£) volatility (%) life (years) yield (%) rate (%) value (£)
PSP  26 March 2009  1.28 nil 53 3.0 6.5 0.61 1.05
Assumptions relating to grants of share options in 2010 were:
    Share price Exercise Expected Expected Dividend Risk free Fair 
Scheme name   Date of grant at grant (£) price (£) volatility (%) life (years) yield (%) rate (%) value (£)
PSP  30 March 2010  1.85 nil 49 3.0 5.5 0.76 1.52
CSOP  1 July 2010 1.98 1.98 49 3–10 years 5.5 0.76 0.44
The total expenses recognised for the period arising from share-based payments are as follows:
      52 week 53 week 
      period ended period ended 
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
Equity-settled share-based payment expense     0.5 0.4
Share-based payments expenses      0.5 0.4
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 71
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
19 Provisions
       Property 
       provisions 
       £m
Balance at 31 December 2009       11.8
Non-current       10.6
Current       1.2
Total       11.8
Balance at 31 December 2009       11.8
Provisions made during the period       0.5
Effect of change in discount rate during the period      0.8
Utilised against rent during the period       (2.2)
Unwound against interest during the period      1.0
Balance at 30 December 2010       11.9
Non-current       9.6
Current       2.3
Total       11.9
Property provisions relate to onerous leases, dilapidations and other property liabilities. The majority of the property provision relates 
to onerous leases being the rent payable on particular cinema sites that is in excess of the economic benefits expected to be derived 
from their operation on a discounted basis. The remaining provision will be utilised over the period to the next rent review date or the 
remaining lease life depending on the term of the lease. This is between one and thirty years (see further analysis below). The discount 
rate used in the period was 9.5% (2009: 10.1%).
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
Expected timing for utilisation of property provisions
Analysed as:  
Within one year      2.3 1.2
Between one and two years      1.1 1.5
In the second to fifth years      2.5 2.9
Over five years      6.0 6.2
      11.9 11.8
20 Capital and Reserves 
Share Capital
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
Cineworld Group plc  
Authorised  
250,000,000 ordinary shares of £0.01 each      2.5 2.5
Allotted, called up and fully paid  
141,741,597 (2009: 141,721,509) ordinary shares of £0.01 each    1.4 1.4
During the year 20,088 ordinary shares were issued of nominal value £0.01 as part of the employee sharesave scheme. Consideration 
of £32,000 was received.
Translation Reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign 
operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary. 72
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
20 Capital and Reserves continued
Hedging Reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the liability in relation to the interest rate swap entered into to hedge against variable interest 
payments on £51.0m (2009: £57.8m) of the total £102.0m (2009: £111.0m) of bank debt. As hedge accounting has been adopted 
the gains/losses are recorded through equity until such time as the cash flows being hedged occur, when they are recycled to the 
income statement.
Dividends
The following dividends were recognised during the period:
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
Interim      4.8 4.5
Final (for the preceding period)      9.7 9.0
      14.5 13.5
An interim dividend of 3.4p per share was paid on 8 October 2010 to ordinary shareholders (2009: 3.2p). The Board has proposed a 
final dividend of 7.1p per share, which will result in total cash payable of £10.1m on 6 July 2011 (2009: final dividend £9.7m). In 
accordance with IAS10 this had not been recognised as a liability at 30 December 2010. 
21 Financial Instruments
Overview
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
Credit risk y
Liquidity risk y
Market risk y
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and processes 
for measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of capital.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. The 
Board has established the Risk Management Committee, which is responsible for developing and monitoring the Group’s risk 
management policies. The committee reports regularly to the Board of Directors on its activities. 
The Group’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate 
risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly 
to reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities. The Group, through its training and management standards 
and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles 
and obligations.
The Group’s Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and 
procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks by the Group. The Group’s Audit 
Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit. Internal Audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of certain risk 
management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual 
obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and investment securities. 
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. However due to the nature of the Group’s business, trade 
receivables are not significant which limits the related credit risk. The Group’s trade receivables are disclosed in Note 15. Of the total 
balance of £2.4m (2009: £1.2m) due 81% (2009: 50%) are within credit terms. A further 8% (2009: 24%) outside credit terms cleared 
after the period end and before signing of the financial statements. The bad debt provision as at 2010 is £nil (2009: £0.1m), with a 
bad debt expense in the period of £nil (2009: £0.1m). Based on past experience the Group believes that no additional impairment 
allowance is necessary in respect of the trade receivables that are past due. In 2010 the amount of trade receivables past due but 
unimpaired is £0.2m. The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is also limited because the counterparties are 
banks with high credit-ratings. 
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to 
managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both 
normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation.
In addition to the financial liabilities set out in the table below, the Group has a £30m revolver facility with Barclays Bank available to 
May 2012. For more details, see Note 1 Basis of preparation.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 73
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
21 Financial Instruments continued
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of netting 
agreements. The amounts disclosed in the table are contractual undiscounted cash flows, including interest payments calculated using 
interest rates in force at each balance sheet date, so will not always reconcile with the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet.
30 December 2010
    Carrying Contractual 6 mths 6–12 1–2 2–5 More than 
    amount cash flows or less months years years 5 years 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Unsecured bank loans    101.8 (103.9) (5.3) (5.2) (93.4) – –
Finance lease liabilities    6.8 (12.8) (0.3) (0.3) (0.6) (1.8) (9.8)
Trade and other payables    12.3 (12.3) (12.3) – – – –
Derivative financial liabilities      
Interest rate swaps used for hedging   2.8 (3.1) (1.2) (1.2) (0.7) – –
    123.7 (132.1) (19.1) (6.7) (94.7) (1.8) (9.8)
The unsecured bank loan is subject to two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net 
finance charges.
31 December 2009
    Carrying Contractual 6 mths 6–12 1–2 2–5 More than 
    amount cash flows or less months years years 5 years 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Unsecured bank loans    110.4 (114.8) (5.4) (5.3) (10.6) (93.5) –
Finance lease liabilities    6.9 (13.3) (0.3) (0.3) (0.6) (1.7) (10.4)
Trade and other payables    21.8 (21.8) (21.8) – – – –
Derivative financial liabilities      
Interest rate swaps used for hedging   3.9 (6.0) (1.3) (1.3) (2.6) (0.8) –
    143.0 (155.9) (28.8) (6.9) (13.8) (96.0) (10.4)
Cash Flow Hedges
The following table indicates the periods in which the discounted cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are 
expected to occur.
30 December 2010
    Carrying Expected 6 mths 6–12 1–2 2–5 More than 
    amount cash flows or less months years years 5 years 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest rate swaps:
 Liabilities    (2.8) (2.8) (1.2) (1.1) (0.5) – –
31 December 2009     
    Carrying Expected 6 mths 6–12 1–2 2–5 More than 
    amount cash flows or less months years years 5 years 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest rate swaps:       
 Liabilities    (3.9) (3.9) (1.3) (1.3) (1.1) (0.2) –
                                                        
It is expected that the expected cash flows will impact profit and loss when the cash flows occur.
Market Risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the 
Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control 
market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.  74
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
21 Financial Instruments continued
Foreign Currency Risk
The majority of the Group’s operations are in the United Kingdom and hence for these operations there is no exposure to foreign 
currency risk other than in respect of certain purchases that may be denominated in currencies other than sterling. In addition there is 
an operation in Ireland where non-sterling revenues, purchases, financial assets and liabilities and cash flows can be affected by 
movements in Euro rates. However, the exposure is limited as euro operations are not significant. A 10% increase/(decrease) in the 
value of €1 against sterling would increase/decrease the profit before tax for 2010 by approximately  £23,000 (2009: £107,000.)  
A 10% increase/(decrease) in the value of €1 against sterling would increase/decrease equity in 2010 by approximately £27,000 
(2009: £139,000.) 
Interest Rate Risk
The Group’s policy is to manage its cost of borrowing by securing fixed interest rates on a portion of its term loan.
Whilst fixed rate interest bearing debt is not exposed to cash flow interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the Group to enjoy a 
reduction in borrowing costs in markets where rates are falling.
In addition, the fair value risk inherent in fixed rate borrowing means that the Group is exposed to unplanned costs should debt be 
restructured or repaid early as part of the liquidity management process.
The Group uses interest rate swaps agreed with other parties to hedge a portion of its bank loans that have variable interest rates. 
Interest rate swaps are measured at fair value, which have been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing 
interest rates.
At the period end the Group had one interest rate swap which hedged 50% (2009: 52.1%) of the Group’s variable rate unsecured 
bank debt. As a result, there is no impact on the income statement relating to the hedged bank debt as a result of any changes in 
interest rates.
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments was:
    Carrying amount
      2010 2009
Fixed rates instruments 
Financial liabilities (interest rate swap)      (2.8) (3.9)
Financial liabilities (unsecured bank loans – hedged portion)    (51.0) (57.8)
      (53.8) (61.7)
Variable rate instruments 
Financial liabilities (unsecured bank loans – unhedged portion)    (51.0) (53.2)
£51.0m (2009: £57.8m) of the variable rate financial liability is hedged via the interest rate swap with the balance attracting a variable 
interest rate.
Fair Value Sensitivity Analysis for Fixed Rate Instruments
The Group accounts for fixed rate derivative financial instruments (interest rate swaps) at fair value. The gain or loss on 
remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement except where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting 
when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged. Hedge accounting was adopted from 
the year ended 27 December 2007 on the swap taken out in May 2007.
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates would have increased equity by £0.5m or decreased equity by £0.5m (2009: increase 
£1.1m, decrease £1.1m) and would have increased or decreased profit or loss by £nil (2009: £nil).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 75
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
21 Financial Instruments continued
Cash Flow Sensitivity Analysis for Variable Rate Instruments
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit or loss by the 
amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. The 
analysis is performed on the same basis for 2009.
 Profit or loss 
||||||||||
 Equity
    100 bp 100 bp 100 bp 100 bp 
Effect in GBP thousands    increase decrease increase decrease
30 December 2010    
Variable rate instruments    (1,087) 1,087 (1,087) 1,087
Interest rate swap    543 (543) 543 (543)
Cash flow sensitivity (net)    (544) 544 (544) 544
31 December 2009
Variable rate instruments    (1,191) 1,191 (1,191) 1,191
Interest rate swap    595 (595) 595 (595)
Cash flow sensitivity (net)    (596) 596 (596) 596
Fair Values
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in 
the financial statements.
Short-term debtors, creditors and cash and cash equivalents have been excluded from the following disclosures on the basis that their 
carrying amount is a reasonable approximation to fair value.
    Carrying  Carrying  
    amount Fair value amount Fair value 
    30 December 30 December 31 December 31 December 
    2010 2010 2009 2009 
    £m £m £m £m
Unsecured bank loans    101.8 99.3 110.4 106.5
Finance lease liabilities    6.8 6.8 6.9 6.9
Interest rate swaps    2.8 2.8 3.9 3.9
    111.4 108.9 121.2 117.3
The fair value of derivatives and borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest 
rates. The carrying amount of unsecured bank loans is stated net of debt issuance costs and the fair value is stated gross of debt 
issuance costs and is calculated using the market interest rates.
The difference between net carrying amount and estimated fair value reflects unrealised gains or losses inherent in the instruments 
based on valuations at 30 December 2010 and 31 December 2009. The volatile nature of the markets means that values at any 
subsequent date could be significantly different from the values reported above.
Fair Value Hierarchy
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method. The different levels have been defined 
as follows:
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; y
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the assets or liability, either directly (i.e. as  y
prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices);
Level 3: inputs for the assets or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). y
    Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 
    £m £m £m £m
30 December 2010
Derivative financial instruments    – 2.8 –         2.8
31 December 2009
Derivative financial instruments    – 3.9 – 3.9 76
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
21 Financial Instruments continued
There have been no transfers between levels in 2009. No other financial instruments are held at fair value.
Capital Management
The capital structure of the Group consists of the following items: 
       2010 2009 
      £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents      10.6 16.9
Loan notes outstanding      101.8 110.4
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent     191.2 188.3
      303.6 315.6
The Board of Directors constantly monitor the ongoing capital requirements of the business and have reviewed the current gearing 
ratio, being the ratio of bank debt to equity and consider it appropriate for the Group’s current circumstances. Ratios used in the 
monitoring of debt capital include the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net finance charges.
The Group has a £30m revolver, which is used to manage uneven working capital requirements. 
The Group’s objective when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market 
confidence and to sustain future development of the business, to provide returns for shareholders and to optimise the capital structure 
to reduce the cost of capital. The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the return on 
capital, which the Group defines as total shareholders’ equity and the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders. 
22 Operating Leases
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals commitments are as follows:
  Land and  30 December Land and  31 December 
  buildings Other 2010 buildings Other 2009 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year  50.8 0.4 51.2 46.9 0.4 47.3
Between one and five years  210.6 1.6 212.2 190.7 1.3 192.0
More than five years  875.4 – 875.4 688.9 – 688.9
  1,136.8 2.0 1,138.8 926.5 1.7 928.2
23 Capital Commitments
Capital commitments at the end of the financial period for which no provision has been made:
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £m £m
Contracted      – 2.9
Since the end of the financial period and the signing of the financial statements, capital commitments were made of £6.2m relating to 
digital projection equipment and £2.3m relating to new sites.
24 Related Parties
The compensation of key management personnel (including the Directors) is as follows:
    Salary Compensation 
    and fees  for loss Pension 
    including bonus of office contributions Total 
    £000 £000 £000 £000
52 weeks ended 30 December 2010
Total compensation for key management 
Personnel (including the Directors)    1,698 – 142 1,840
    Salary Compensation 
    and fees  for loss Pension 
    including bonus of office contributions Total 
    £000 £000 £000 £000
53 weeks ended 31 December 2009
Total compensation for key management 
Personnel (including the Directors)    1,841 – 147 1,988
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 77
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
24 Related Parties continued
During 2010, M Tooth and A Roux served as Directors appointed by Blackstone, a major shareholder. A Roux left the Board in 
November 2010 following the divestment of the Blackstone holding. Their Directors’ fees of £33,000 and £28,875 respectively 
(2009: £33,000, £3,300) are payable to Blackstone. L Guffey who was appointed by Blackstone resigned in November 2009 
(2009 fees: £29,700) and A Roux was appointed in his place.
Share-based compensation benefit charges for key management personnel (including Directors) was £0.3m in 2010 (2009: £0.2m).
Other Related Party Transactions
Digital Cinema Media Limited (“DCM”) is a joint venture between the Group and Odeon Cinemas Holdings Limited set up on 10 July 
2008. Revenue receivable from DCM in the 52 week period ending 30 December 2010 totalled £13.8m (53 week period ending  
31 December 2009: £11.3m) and as at 30 December 2010 £2.0m (2009: £1.2m) was due from DCM in respect of receivables. In 
addition the Group has a working capital loan outstanding from DCM of £0.5m (2009: £0.5m). The Group has guaranteed £2.75m of 
DCM’s bank debt payable to Royal Bank of Scotland. The Group does not consider it is probable that it will be called on under the 
terms of the guarantee. 78
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
    30 December 30 December 31 December 31 December 
    2010 2010 2009 2009 
   Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Fixed assets
Investments   28  132,313  131,798
Current assets
Debtors   29 123,667  105,667
Cash at bank    53  5,003
    123,720  110,670
Creditors: amount falling due within one year  30 (64,823)  (54,211)
Net current assets     58,897  56,459
Net assets     191,210  188,257
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital   31  1,417  1,417
Share premium account   31  171,386  171,354
Profit and loss account   31  18,407  15,486
Shareholders’ funds – equity     191,210  188,257
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 10 March 2011 and were signed on its behalf by:
Stephen Wiener    Richard Jones
Director     Director
Company Balance Sheet
at 30 December 2010 79
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
      52 week  53 week 
      period ended period ended 
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
     Note £000 £000
Profit for the period      16,862 10,763
Dividends paid during the period     31 (14,456) (13,463)
Equity instruments granted     31 515 449
Share issue      32 –
Net increase/(decrease) in shareholders’ funds     2,953 (2,251)
Opening shareholders’ funds      188,257 190,508
Closing shareholders’ funds      191,210 188,257
Company Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds
for the Period Ended 30 December 2010 80
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
25 Accounting Policies
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the 
Company’s financial statements.
Basis of Preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and under the historical cost 
accounting rules.
Information regarding the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position is set out in the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer’s Report and the Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 8 to 
18. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief Executive 
and Chief Financial Officer’s Report on pages 8 to 15. In addition Note 21 to the financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments and 
hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
As highlighted in Note 16 to the financial statements, the Group meets its day to day working capital requirements through its  
bank facilities which consist of a £102m term loan plus £30m revolver which matures in 2012. The current economic conditions  
create uncertainty particularly over (a) the level of demand for the Group’s products; and (b) the availability of bank finance in the 
foreseeable future.
The current bank facility is subject to two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net 
finance charges. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show 
that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facility, including compliance with the bank facility covenants.
Since the end of the period the Group has received commitments from a group of banks for a new five year facility of £170m to replace 
its existing facility which is due to expire in May 2012. The new facility will provide the Group with more flexibility to finance future 
expansion plans as well as other growth opportunities. Documentation is being drafted between the Group and the participating banks 
and all parties are working to complete the process in the near future.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual financial statements.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
Under Financial Reporting Standard 1 the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds 
that its cash flows are included within the consolidated financial statements of Cineworld Group plc.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with 
entities which form part of the Cineworld Group where the Group controls 90% or more of the voting rights.
Investments
In the Company’s financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for any impairment  
in value.
Impairment 
The Group evaluates its investments for financial impairment where events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such 
assets may not be fully recoverable. When such evaluations indicate that the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable value, 
an impairment in value is recorded.
Deferred Taxation
The charge for taxation based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation 
and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Company
Following the adoption of FRS 25, financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity (i.e. forming part of shareholders’ 
funds) only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions:
a) they include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets 
or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company; and 
b) where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no 
obligation to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the 
Company’s exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 81
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
25 Accounting Policies continued
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so 
classified takes the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share 
capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Share-Based Payment Transactions
The share options programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of options granted is 
recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over 
the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of the options granted is 
measured using an evaluation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The amount 
recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares options that vest except where forfeiture is due only to 
share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Shares appreciation rights are also granted by the Company to employees. The fair value of the amount payable to the employee is 
recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities. The fair value is initially measured at grant date and spread over 
the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment. The fair value of the share appreciation rights is 
measured based on an option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. 
The liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date and any changes in fair value recognised in profit and 
loss spread equally over the vesting period.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it recognises an increase in the cost of 
investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its subsidiary’s financial 
statements with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity. Amounts recharged to or reimbursed by the subsidiary are 
recognised as a reduction in the cost of investment in subsidiary.
Own Shares Held by Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”)
Transactions of the Group sponsored EBT are included in the Group financial information. In particular, the trust’s purchase of shares 
in the Company are debited directly to equity.
26 Staff Numbers and Costs
The Company has no employees. Non-Executive Directors salaries are recharged to the Company from its subsidiary Cineworld  
Cinemas Ltd. Total salaries paid to Non-Executive Directors were £340,000 (2009: £300,000) See pages 36 to 40 for details of 
directors emoluments.
27 Fixed Asset Investments
          Shares in Group 
          undertakings  
Company          £000
Balance at 31 December 2009         131,798
Additions          515
Balance at 30 December 2010         132,313
Net book value
At 31 December 2009          131,798
At 30 December 2010          132,313
For details of £515,000 addition to investment see Note 31. 82
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
27 Fixed Asset Investments continued
  Country of  incorporation   Principal activity Class % of shares held
Subsidiary undertakings
Directly Held
Augustus 1 Limited  England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Indirectly Held
Augustus 2 Limited  England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Holdings Limited   England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cine-UK Limited  England and Wales Cinema operation  Ordinary 100
Cineworld Cinemas Holdings Limited  England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Cinemas Limited  England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100 
   and cinema operation
Cineworld Finance Limited  England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Cineworld Estates Limited  England and Wales Cinema property leasing Ordinary 100
Cineworld South East Cinemas Limited  England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Exhibition Limited  England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Gallery Holdings Limited  England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100 
    “A” Ordinary 100 
    Preference 100
Gallery Cinemas Limited  England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Slough Movie Centre Limited  England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Adelphi-Carlton Limited   Eire Cinema operation Ordinary 100
Cineworld Cinema Properties Limited  England and Wales Property company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Elite Pictures Theatre
(Nottingham) Limited  England and Wales Non-trading Ordinary 98.2
    Cum 5% Pref 99.6
Classic Cinemas Limited  England and Wales Retail services company Ordinary 100
Computicket Limited  England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Digital Cinema Media Limited  England and Wales Screen Advertising Ordinary 50
28 Debtors
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £000 £000
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings     123,667 105,667
      123,667 105,667
29 Creditors: Amounts Falling Due Within One Year
      30 December 31 December 
      2010 2009 
      £000 £000
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings      64,823 54,174
Corporation tax payable      – 37
      64,823 54,211
30 Share Capital and Reserves
     Share 
    Share premium Profit and 
    capital account loss account Total 
    £000 £000 £000 £000
At 31 December 2009    1,417 171,354 15,486 188,257
Profit for the period    – – 16,862 16,862
Dividends paid during the period    – –  (14,456)  (14,456)
Equity instruments granted    – – 515 515
Share issue     – 32 – 32
At 30 December 2010    1,417 171,386 18,407 191,210
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued 83
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
30 Share Capital and Reserves continued
For details of share issue see Note 20.
Share premium is stated net of share issue costs.
Equity instruments granted of £515,000 represents the fair value of share options granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings. 
There is a corresponding increase in investments, see Note 28.
This element of the profit and loss reserve is not distributable.
31 Share-Based Payments
See Note 18 of the Group financial statements. 84
Cineworld Group plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors
A H Bloom (Non-Executive Director and Chairman)
S Wiener (Chief Executive Officer)
R Jones (Chief Financial Officer)
M King (Non-Executive Director)
D Maloney (Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director)
T McGrath (Non-Executive Director) 
R Senat (Non-Executive Director)
M Tooth (Non-Executive Director)
P Williams (Non-Executive Director)
Shareholder Information
Head Office
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road
Chiswick
London W4 5PY
Telephone Number 
0208 987 5000
Website
www.cineworld.co.uk
www.cineworldplc.com
Place of Incorporation
England and Wales
Company Number
Registered Number: 5212407
Registrar
Capita Registrars Limited
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
15 Canada Square
London E14 5GL
Final Dividend – 2010
Announcement  10 March 2011
Ex Dividend 8 June 2011
Record Date 10 June 2011
Payment Date 6 July 2011
Joint Brokers
JP Morgan Cazenove Ltd
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA
Evolution Securities Limited
100 Wood Street
London EC2V 7AN
Legal Advisors to the Company
Olswang
90 High Holborn
London WC1V 6XX
Public Relations Advisors
M: Communications
1 Ropemaker Street
Ninth Floor
London EC2Y 9HT
Registered Office
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road
Chiswick
London W4 5PY Cineworld is one  
of the UK’s leading  
cinema groups
Business Review 
Highlights 2010 01
A Real Cinema Experience 02
Chairman’s Statement 04
Our Strategy 06
The Business Model 07
UK and Ireland Market Overview 07
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
Officers’ Review 08
Risks and Uncertainties 16
Corporate Responsibility 19
 
Governance 
Directors’ Biographies 24
Directors’ Report 26
Corporate Governance Statement 31
Directors’ Remuneration Report 36
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities  
in respect of the Annual Report and  
the Financial Statements 41
Independent Auditor’s Report to the  
Members of Cineworld Group plc 42
 
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of  
Comprehensive Income 43
Consolidated Statement of  
Financial Position 44
Consolidated Statement of  
Changes in Equity 45
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 46
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 47
Company Balance Sheet 78
Company Reconciliation of Movements  
in Shareholders’ Funds 79
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 80
Shareholder Information 84 Cineworld Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Cineworld Group plc
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road
Chiswick
London W4 5PY
020 8987 5000
www.cineworld.com
www.cineworldplc.com
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
