 Cineworld Group plc
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road
Chiswick
London W4 5PY
020 8987 5000
www.cineworld.com
www.cineworldplc.com
Cineworld Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Five people who have  
helped us become UK No.1
Business Review
Highlights 01
Chairman’s Statement 02
Our Strategy 06
Our Business Model 08
UK and Ireland Market Overview 10
Our UK Presence 11
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
Officers’ Business Review 14
Risks and Uncertainties 24
Corporate Responsibility 28
Governance 
Directors’ Biographies 34
Directors’ Report 36
Corporate Governance Statement 40
Directors’ Remuneration Report 45
Statement of Directors’  
Responsibilities 51
Independent Auditor’s Report 52
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of  
Comprehensive Income 53
Consolidated Statement of  
Financial Position 54
Consolidated Statement of  
Changes in Equity 55
Consolidated Statement  
of Cash Flows 56
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 57
Company Balance Sheet 86
Company Reconciliation  
of Movements in  
Shareholders’ Funds 87
Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements 88
Shareholder Information 92
Contents
Cineworld is the UK’s 
leading cinema group
 1 Mike Wiles – Glasgow Renfrew Street 04
 2 Alison Chase – Academy 12
 3 David Spence – General Manager of the Year 22
 4 Tamlin McKinnon – Head Office, Customer Service 26
 5 Steven Wollaston – Leigh 32 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
01
A more detailed review is included in the 
Financial Performance section of this statement.
Highlights 2011
11
11
11
11
11
11
348.0
33.4
7.4
63.3
19.2
11.0
10
10
10
10
10
10
342.8
30.4
7.1
59.0
18.1
10.5
Group revenue (£m)
Profit before tax (£m)
Proposed final  
dividend (p)
EBITDA* (£m)
Adjusted pro-forma  
diluted EPS (p)
Proposed full year  
dividend (p)
52 weeks
52 weeks
52 weeks
52 weeks
52 weeks
52 weeks
+1.5%
+9.9%
+4.2%
+7.3%
+6.1%
+4.8%
Other key highlights
• 	 Number 	 1 	 cinema 	 oper at or 	 in 	 UK / Ir eland 	 f or 	 2 0 1 1 	 with 	 a 	 bo x 	 of f ic e	
mark e t 	 shar e 	 of 	 2 4 . 6 % 	 (R entr ak / E DI) ;
• 	 Bo x 	 of f ic e 	 up 	 2 . 7 % 	 at 	 £ 2 4 2 . 1 m 	 against 	 2 0 1 0 ;
• 	 A dmission s 	 2 . 3 % 	 higher 	 than 	 2 0 1 0 	 at 	 4 8 . 3 m ;
• 	 A v er age 	 tick e t 	 pric e 	 per 	 admission 	 up 	 0 . 4 % 	 t o 	 £ 5 . 0 1 	 ( 2 0 1 0 : 	 £ 4 . 9 9 )	
with 	 av er age 	 r e t ail 	 spend 	 per 	 person 	 slightl y 	 sof t er 	 at 	 £ 1 . 6 9	 	
( 2 0 10 :	 £ 1 . 7 3 );
• 	 S tr ong 	 pr ogr ess 	 on 	 digit al 	 c on v ersion 	 with 	 o v er 	 7 5 % 	 of 	 the 	 est at e	
now 	 u sing 	 digit al 	 pr ojec t ors ;
• 	 Opening 	 of 	 a 	 new 	 se v en 	 scr een 	 cinema 	 at 	 L eigh ;
• 	 New 	 f acilit y 	 of 	 £ 1 7 0m 	 negotiat ed 	 in 	 Mar ch 	 t o 	 f inanc e 	 f utur e	
e x p an s i on 	 an d 	 o t h e r 	 o p p or t u ni t i es .
* EBITDA is defined as operating profit before depreciation, impairments, reversals of impairments 
and amortisation, onerous lease and other non-recurring or non-cash property charges, transaction, 
pension, refinancing and reorganisation costs. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
02
Chairman’s Statement
Committed to expansion  
and investment
“The Group remains 
committed to 
expansion and 
investment and  
it was a busy year 
for the business  
in this respect.” Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
03
Our focus on the customer experience  
remains as important as always.
I am pleased to report yet another successful year of trading for 
the Group. For the first time in its history, in 2011 Cineworld became 
the top cinema operator in the combined UK and Irish market for 
the year with a gross box office market share of 24.6%, according 
to Rentrak/EDI. It is a clear demonstration of the success of our 
efforts to increase the competitiveness of our film and retail offers, 
our pricing and the comfort and accessibility of our cinemas.
It is also a pleasure to report that the Board has proposed a 4.8% 
increase in the full year dividend for 2011 to 11.0p, which continues 
the year on year growth in dividends every year since we became  
a listed company. This proposal reflects the continued growth in 
revenues and profits and strong cash generation. Our sound financial 
position was further reinforced when a new £170 million, five year 
facility was put in place in March 2011.
The Group remains committed to expansion and investment and it 
was a busy year for the business in this respect. We successfully 
opened a new seven screen cinema in Leigh on 18 November on 
schedule in addition to the “The Screening Rooms” concept in 
Cheltenham in June. The expansion of our digital estate continues 
according to plan and it is anticipated that the final screen in our 
estate will be converted in the summer of 2012. Our efforts to 
purchase the Cinesur chain of cinemas in Spain were unsuccessful 
as the vendors were unable to meet the contractual conditions  
for completion. Despite this outcome we remain keen to grow  
our business and continue to look for suitable expansionary 
opportunities that are in the best interests of our shareholders.
Our focus on the customer experience remains as important as 
always. We pride ourselves on offering our customers the widest 
film range of any of the major exhibitors in the UK. We are committed 
to expanding our Unlimited subscription programme, a unique 
offering in UK and Ireland. Investment in technology plays an 
important part in our plans and we have a major IT systems upgrade 
in progress which is well advanced and will ensure that we have 
solid foundations for future growth. At the end of the year we also 
opened our first IMAX screen at our Edinburgh cinema which has 
initially performed above expectations. Two more screens are 
planned for other locations in 2012.
Maintaining and expanding the culture of strong governance 
throughout the whole organisation remains a key responsibility for 
the Board. We have followed the public debate on Board diversity 
with interest and continue to encourage the organisation to consider 
wider society matters, such as the environment, diversity and 
health and safety matters and constantly review our practices 
against perceived best practices.
There were some changes to the Board during the year. On 11 May 
2011, Matthew Tooth stepped down from the Board to concentrate 
on his Blackstone activities. On 10 June 2011, Richard Jones 
resigned from the Board and as Chief Financial Officer. I would like 
to thank both Matthew and Richard for their significant support and 
contributions over the years and for leaving Cineworld in a sound 
financial position. I would also like to welcome to the Board Philip 
Bowcock, who was appointed Chief Financial Officer on 1 December 
2011. Philip brings a wealth of experience and skills relevant to 
Cineworld’s activities and I look forward to working with him.
We all know that the economic and financial outlook will continue 
to be challenging and that we face a tough competitive landscape. 
We have made a sound start to the new financial year and whilst 
the forthcoming European Football Championship and London 
Olympics will present further challenges, there is a strong line up 
of films to support the rest of the year. I remain positive about the 
future prospects of the Group. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our management and 
our employees for their hard work and achievements. Our people 
are highly motivated and passionate about delivering success and 
the Group remains in a strong financial and competitive position 
– the result of a successful business model which continues to prove 
its resilience and which offers opportunities for growth. I look forward 
to working with management and staff to move the business 
forward and reporting continued growth to you, our shareholders.
Anthony Bloom
Chairman
8 March 2012 Five people who have helped us become UK No.1
04
Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
M i k e 	 W i le s 	 is 	 t h e 	 Gen er a l 	 Ma n a g er 	 o f 	 C i n e w o r l d 	 Gl a sgo w
R en fr e w 	 S t r ee t , 	 t h e 	 UK ’ s 	 b u s i e st 	 a n d 	 t a l l e st 	 c i n ema . 	 C opi n g	
w i t h 	 a l mo st 	 t w o 	 m i l l i o n 	 a d m iss i o n s 	 a 	 y e a r 	 i n 	 a 	 v en u e 	 t h a t	
h a s 	 t w el v e 	 fl o o r s 	 a n d 	 el e v en 	 s e t s 	 o f 	 e sc a l a t o r s , 	 M i k e ’ s	
t e a m 	 h a s 	 w o n 	 fi v e 	 i n t er n a l 	 a w a r ds 	 i n 	 fi v e 	 y e a r s 	 a t , 	 w h a t	 	
is 	 p r ob a b l y , 	 t h e 	 b e st 	 c i n ema 	 i n 	 t h e 	 UK .
The biggest, busiest and  
best cinema in the UK
Mike Wiles – Glasgow Renfrew Street 05
Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Find further information  
on our business at:
www.cineworldplc.com Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
06
Our Strategy
Our strategy Action undertaken The future
Develop and improve its offer to its customers We provide the widest range of films of any of the major UK 
exhibitors. This is facilitated by a high average number of screens 
per cinema. We maintain high operating standards to ensure that 
our customers enjoy a good cinema experience in a comfortable, 
safe and clean environment.
We will continue to grow our strong knowledge of films and good 
relationships with film distributors.
We will seek to improve our understanding of our customers and 
their interests and continually maintain our cinemas to a high standard.
Grow box office revenues Our bargain day and concession prices have been successful in 
reaching out to the value segment of the market. Our success in 
screening 3D with the associated price premium.
We have developed strategic partnerships with household  
names. Our Unlimited programme has grown to in excess  
of 280,000 subscribers. 
We will continue to use pricing to improve capacity utilisation  
and to encourage cinema going.
We will continue to convert to digital to maximise our flexibility  
in screenings.
We will aim to increase further the number of customers on our 
Unlimited programme.
Increase retail spend per customer Our success in retail promotions from our staple Combo range  
to promotions targeted at particular customer types or linked to  
film activity.
We will continue to develop our product ranges and selected 
promotions that appeal to different consumer groups.
Increase other revenue streams Our screen advertising business, Digital Cinema Media (“DCM”) 
has made good progress in attracting a wider range of advertisers.
We have increased the range of alternative content screened this 
year and continued to develop venue hire as a revenue stream.
We became a preferred partner with De Vere Venues to develop 
conferencing for businesses in respect of three London sites as a trial.
By completing the conversion to digital we aim to improve our offer 
to advertisers.
We continue to seek further opportunities and improve capacity 
utilisation at our cinemas.
Grow the estate through selective new openings,  
expansions and acquisitions
In 2011, we opened a new concept cinema in Cheltenham and a 
seven screen cinema in Leigh.
In the latter part of 2012 we have plans to open a seven screen 
cinema in Aldershot.
We will continue to develop relationships with developers to  
obtain the best sites and identify untapped smaller markets which 
may sustain smaller multiplexes. We will continue to keep abreast 
of opportunities within the cinema industry at home and overseas.
Use technology to improve our customers’ experience and  
the efficiency of our operations
We have converted over 75% of our screens to digital projection, which 
are beginning to yield cost savings and operational efficiencies. 
We installed an IMAX screen at our Edinburgh cinema which has 
increased revenues for the cinema.
We ran a successful trial at our Scottish sites to increase the level of 
online booking.
We introduced a new ticketing system at three sites and enhanced 
online booking through iPhone and Android apps.
We anticipate the completion of the installation of digital projection 
facilities across the remainder of our cinema estate by the end of 
summer 2012. This will bring efficiencies in the delivery of film and other 
content to provide a wider choice for our customers and advertisers.
We currently plan to install further IMAX screens at two other 
locations in 2012.
We look to expand the Scottish initiative across the rest of our cinemas.
We are developing our IT infrastructure further with the roll out of 
the new ticketing system to all our sites.
A commitment to our  
long-term strategy is at the heart  
of our continuing success.
The Group’s primary objective is to consolidate and advance its position as 
one of the leading cinema businesses in the UK and Ireland in terms of sites, 
screens and admissions and to improve its operating margins, thereby growing 
shareholder value. In order to achieve this, the Group will continue to:
Find further information  
on our business at:
www.cineworldplc.com Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
07
Our strategy Action undertaken The future
Develop and improve its offer to its customers We provide the widest range of films of any of the major UK 
exhibitors. This is facilitated by a high average number of screens 
per cinema. We maintain high operating standards to ensure that 
our customers enjoy a good cinema experience in a comfortable, 
safe and clean environment.
We will continue to grow our strong knowledge of films and good 
relationships with film distributors.
We will seek to improve our understanding of our customers and 
their interests and continually maintain our cinemas to a high standard.
Grow box office revenues Our bargain day and concession prices have been successful in 
reaching out to the value segment of the market. Our success in 
screening 3D with the associated price premium.
We have developed strategic partnerships with household  
names. Our Unlimited programme has grown to in excess  
of 280,000 subscribers. 
We will continue to use pricing to improve capacity utilisation  
and to encourage cinema going.
We will continue to convert to digital to maximise our flexibility  
in screenings.
We will aim to increase further the number of customers on our 
Unlimited programme.
Increase retail spend per customer Our success in retail promotions from our staple Combo range  
to promotions targeted at particular customer types or linked to  
film activity.
We will continue to develop our product ranges and selected 
promotions that appeal to different consumer groups.
Increase other revenue streams Our screen advertising business, Digital Cinema Media (“DCM”) 
has made good progress in attracting a wider range of advertisers.
We have increased the range of alternative content screened this 
year and continued to develop venue hire as a revenue stream.
We became a preferred partner with De Vere Venues to develop 
conferencing for businesses in respect of three London sites as a trial.
By completing the conversion to digital we aim to improve our offer 
to advertisers.
We continue to seek further opportunities and improve capacity 
utilisation at our cinemas.
Grow the estate through selective new openings,  
expansions and acquisitions
In 2011, we opened a new concept cinema in Cheltenham and a 
seven screen cinema in Leigh.
In the latter part of 2012 we have plans to open a seven screen 
cinema in Aldershot.
We will continue to develop relationships with developers to  
obtain the best sites and identify untapped smaller markets which 
may sustain smaller multiplexes. We will continue to keep abreast 
of opportunities within the cinema industry at home and overseas.
Use technology to improve our customers’ experience and  
the efficiency of our operations
We have converted over 75% of our screens to digital projection, which 
are beginning to yield cost savings and operational efficiencies. 
We installed an IMAX screen at our Edinburgh cinema which has 
increased revenues for the cinema.
We ran a successful trial at our Scottish sites to increase the level of 
online booking.
We introduced a new ticketing system at three sites and enhanced 
online booking through iPhone and Android apps.
We anticipate the completion of the installation of digital projection 
facilities across the remainder of our cinema estate by the end of 
summer 2012. This will bring efficiencies in the delivery of film and other 
content to provide a wider choice for our customers and advertisers.
We currently plan to install further IMAX screens at two other 
locations in 2012.
We look to expand the Scottish initiative across the rest of our cinemas.
We are developing our IT infrastructure further with the roll out of 
the new ticketing system to all our sites. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
08
Our Business Model
The Group remains in a strong financial  
and competitive position – the result  
of a successful business model.
Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
08
Operational Delivery
High Quality of Venue
High Quality Film Offer
High Quality of Retail Offer
Sales and Marketing Delivery Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
09 09
Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
The Customer Admissions and Revenues
Repeat visits
“A Great Cinema Experience”
The key driver of our business is customers visiting our cinemas  
to see feature films principally produced by a small number of  
film studios in the US.
With 76 of our 79 cinemas being multiplex (cinemas with five or 
more screens), we are able to show a broad range of films which 
are attractive to a wide variety of customer groups.
The number of visits (“admissions”) multiplied by the net average 
entrance price (“ticket price”) gives the box office revenue.  
Our policy aims to ensure that our headline ticket prices remain 
competitive at local level. This is supported by discounted price 
structures covering off-peak (particularly mid-week) and prices 
targeted at particular sections of the customer base such as 
pensioners and students. 
We operate a subscription service called “Unlimited”, which is a 
fixed monthly (or annual) subscription which enables customers to 
watch as many 2D films at our cinemas as they wish. Cineworld is 
currently the only cinema operator in the UK and Ireland to offer this 
service and to date the service has over 280,000 members.
Admissions, in turn, drive the two other main income sources 
which are:
1) Retail sales to our customers comprising principally food  
and drink for consumption within our cinemas with soft drinks  
and popcorn historically being the two core products; and 
2) Revenue from advertisements shown on our screens prior to 
feature presentations. Nearly all advertising is arranged through 
Cineworld’s joint venture company, Digital Cinema Media Limited, 
which sells cinema screen advertising space for the majority of 
cinema exhibitors in the UK. 
There are other ancillary income streams which include sales  
of 3D glasses, screen/auditorium hire fees, booking fees,  
income from games machines, gift cards and sponsorship. 
The principal direct costs to the business are film rental paid  
to the film distributors for the rights to show the films and the 
purchase costs of food and drink sold to customers. The main 
cinema operating costs are staff salaries and wages, energy, 
repairs and maintenance and property related costs. Cinema  
sites are acquired on leaseholds of typically 25 years and 
property related costs consist of rent, rates and service charges.
We aim to promote customer admissions by offering clean, 
comfortable, well-run facilities in well-sited locations, which  
makes cinema going a pleasurable experience and encourages 
more frequent return visits. We seek to complement this by 
optimising the use of auditorium space, providing more screens  
to show a wide choice of films to appeal to a variety of customer 
groups and the provision of an enhanced range of products 
and services. 
Find further information  
on our business at:
www.cineworldplc.com Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
10
UK and Ireland Market Overview
The combined UK and Irish cinema market continues to be 
dominated by three major UK exhibitors, Cineworld, Odeon UCI, 
and Vue. In total, they account for over 70% of the total market box 
office and provide over 60% of the total screens in the UK. 
Cineworld is listed on the London Stock Exchange, while Odeon 
UCI and Vue are both privately owned groups. Cineworld is the 
largest operator in both the UK and the combined UK and Irish 
markets by box office market shares in 2011 of 26.1% and 24.6% 
respectively (2010: 26.2% and 24.6% respectively). Cineworld 
also leads in terms of admissions where it contributed 28.2% of 
all UK admissions (2010: 27.2%) In terms of number of cinemas 
and screens, Cineworld has been the second largest operator in 
the combined UK and Irish behind Odeon UCI. 
The rest of the market is represented by smaller multiplex operators 
and independents which tend to operate non-multiplex cinemas 
(less than five screens). Cineworld has a small presence in Ireland 
with one, albeit significant, cinema in Dublin, being the seventh 
biggest cinema in the combined UK and Irish market in 2011 by 
gross box office (Rentrak/EDI). 
The UK market has remained largely constant for a number of years 
though the ownership of Vue changed in late 2010. There are 
significant barriers to entry, both through acquisition and organically. 
Competition law limits the potential for major consolidation in the 
industry. The rate of new cinema openings has been falling in 
recent years, partly due to the limited number of new retail and 
leisure development opportunities and the long time to bring 
developments to fruition. This has been exacerbated more 
recently due to reduced funding for developers in the present 
financial climate though confidence has started to improve. 
Box office revenue in 2011 in the combined UK and Irish market 
increased 4.9% to £1.14bn (Rentrak/EDI), whilst UK admissions 
grew 1.4% to 171m (CEA) – demonstrating the resilience of cinema 
in the prevailing economic and consumer environment. The low 
price of going to the cinema compared to other forms of 
entertainment and leisure and the desire for escapism have 
remained key attractions. 
Approximately 80% of screen advertising revenues in the  
UK during 2011 were generated by a separate business called 
Digital Cinema Media Limited (“DCM”) which is jointly owned  
by Cineworld and Odeon UCI. In addition to Cineworld and  
Odeon UCI, DCM’s clients also include Vue (from the beginning  
of 2011) and a number of other smaller cinema operators.  
Its only and smaller competitor is Pearl and Dean, which 
represents the Empire cinema chain and a collection of  
other smaller operators. 
Underpinning the overall success of the cinema industry in  
2011 was the strong line up of films, the ongoing conversion  
to digital projection and the growth in the number of films  
released in the 3D format, up from 25 in 2010 to 37 in 2011  
with a similar number anticipated in 2012. 
Box office revenue in 2011 in the combined  
UK and Irish market increased 4.9%. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
11
Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
11
811
screens
79
cinemas
27 %
of all UK  
admissions
Sky Superscreen
Largest 3D screen  
in Europe, located  
at Cineworld, O2.
Glasgow Renfrew Street
Tallest cinema in the UK.
UK No.1
Box office market leader
Our UK and Irish Presence Five people who have helped us become UK No.1
12
Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
A l iso n 	 C h a s e 	 is 	 t h e 	 Gen er a l 	 Ma n a g er 	 o f 	 C i n e w o r l d 	 F a l k i r k	
a n d 	 o n e 	 o f 	 t h e 	 ris i n g 	 st a r s 	 o f 	 C i n e w o r l d’ s	 newest	
d e v el op m en t 	 p r o g r a m m e , 	 t h e 	 A c a d em y . 	 A l iso n 	 j oi n e d	 	
t h e 	 c o m p a n y 	 e i g h t 	 y e a r s 	 a go 	 a s 	 a n 	 Op er a t i o n s 	 Ma n a g er	
i n 	 E d i n b u r g h 	 a n d 	 q ui c k l y 	 d e v el op e d 	 h er 	 st r a t e g i c	
l e ad er s hip 	 s ki l l s .	
Alison Chase – Academy
Investing in our staff is key  
to our continued growth 13
Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Find further information  
on our business at:
www.cineworldplc.com Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
14
A solid financial  
performance
Chief Executive and  
Chief Financial Officers’ Business Review
Stephen Wiener
Chief Executive Officer
Philip Bowcock
Chief Financial Officer Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
15
Performance Overview
Cineworld delivered a solid financial performance for the year. 
Total revenue for 2011 was £348.0m, an increase of 1.5% on the 
prior year (2010: £342.8m). Cineworld’s box office increased 2.7% 
to £242.1m. Average ticket price per admission increased marginally 
by 0.4% to £5.01 (2010: £4.99) whilst total retail revenues were 
flat (2010: £81.6m). Other revenues fell by 4.3% to £24.3m 
(2010: £25.4m). 
For the first time Cineworld was the number one cinema operator 
in the combined UK and Irish market, with a box office market 
share of 24.6% (2010: 24.6%). The Group’s admissions were 1.1m, 
2.3% higher than the prior year. 
Cineworld also remained the number one cinema operator in the 
UK in terms of box office (Rentrak/EDI) with a market share of 
26.1% in 2011 (2010: 26.2%).
Box Office
Cineworld’s principal income arises from box office revenues. 
Higher admissions in the year contributed to a 2.7% increase in 
box office sales to £242.1m. This equated to a 4.9% increase on 
a gross box office basis (inclusive of VAT) and was consistent with 
the UK and Ireland cinema industry as a whole, with industry gross 
box office up 4.9% against the previous year (Source: Rentrak/EDI), 
partially lifted by an increase in the rate of VAT from 17.5% to 20% 
on 4 January 2011.
Cineworld’s ticket price increases were partially offset by lower  
3D business and higher take up of concessionary and discounted 
tickets, which meant that the average ticket price per admission 
increased marginally by 0.4% to £5.01 (2010: £4.99). The average 
net ticket price (excluding VAT) of 3D of £6.32 compared to 2D of 
£4.50. Cineworld nevertheless continues to offer its customers 
good value with the lowest average ticket price of any of the major 
UK cinema groups. In the current economic climate there remains 
a notable proportion of customers taking advantage of our lower 
mid-week ticket prices. 
There were strong performances in the year from blockbusters such 
as “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2” (the highest 
grossing film in the UK in 2011), “Pirates of the Caribbean:  
On Stranger Tides”, “The Hangover Part II” and “Twilight Saga: 
Breaking Dawn – Part 1”, which all performed above or in line with 
industry expectations. Whilst the exceptional performance of  
“The King’s Speech” was well publicised, its box office performance 
was nearly matched by “The Inbetweeners”, which was the third 
highest grossing film in the UK in 2011. Cineworld maintained its 
box office market share in the UK in 2011, despite the increased 
market share of independent cinemas which was at the expense 
of some of the other large cinema operators. Their gains reflect 
the fact that they have caught up on conversion to digital projection 
and the provision of 3D, and they also capitalised on the exceptional 
successes of a large number of smaller films such as the “King’s 
Speech”, “Black Swan” and “Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy”, an area  
in which they tend to outperform.
3D films continued to contribute a sizeable proportion of overall 
film business with 37 films released in 3D compared with 25 films 
in 2010. The 3D format continues to remain popular although some 
value-seeking customers have a preference for the 2D format. Strong 
comparatives due to the outstanding success of films such as 
“Avatar”, “Alice in Wonderland” and “Toy Story 3” in 2010, meant 
that the proportion of 3D box office nationally was lower year-on-
year at 23% (2010: 30%). The most notable films in 3D in 2011 
were “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2”, “Pirates of the 
Caribbean: On Stranger Tides” and “Transformers: Dark of the Moon” .
We remained true to our strategy of offering customers the 
broadest range of films on the market. There were a number of 
smaller and mid-range films that performed well during the year 
including “Limitless”, “No Strings Attached”, “Attack the Block” 
and “Season of the Witch”, with which we achieved higher 
individual market shares than our overall market average. We also 
remained the biggest exhibitor of Bollywood films in the UK. 
Popularity of this genre remains high with films such as “Ra.One” 
and “Bodyguard” released during the year. In addition to other 
specialised and foreign language films played, such as “Senna” 
and “Biutiful”, we were the exclusive UK exhibitor for the first ever 
3D Polish film “Battle of Warsaw”.
Alternative Content
We continued to make good progress during the year in developing 
our alternative content offering which has been made possible by 
our digital conversion programme. The most notable events of the 
year included live music concerts by JLS and the Red Hot Chilli 
Peppers, Lord of the Dance in 3D and the 25th Anniversary show 
of Phantom of the Opera screened from The Royal Albert Hall.  
We also screened a number of documentaries such as The Foo 
Fighters, and Talahina Sky: Kings of Leon. As a one-off event, the 
men’s and women’s singles finals of the tennis at Wimbledon were 
shown in 3D and highlighted the improving technical capabilities 
of screening live action in 3D. In the field of the performing arts, 
our core live opera and theatre product came from the New York
Performance Overview
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
Total
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
Total
Admissions 48.3m 47.2m
£m £m
Box office 242.1 235.8
Retail 81.6 81.6
Other Income 24.3 25.4
Total revenue 348.0 342.8 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
16
It is expected that the digital conversion  
will be completed by the end of the  
summer of 2012.
Metropolitan Opera, the National Theatre and the Royal Opera 
House, all of which were well attended. The scope of alternative 
content is growing, but currently remains a niche offering and 
therefore a relatively small contributor to box office revenues.
Retail
Food and drink sales to our customers are Cineworld’s second 
largest source of revenue and represent 23% of total revenues. 
Total retail revenues were flat at £81.6m (2010: £81.6m).
Net retail spend per person softened in 2011 to £1.69 (2010: 
£1.73) reflecting the competitive offers within our promotions.  
As expected, our customers remained highly value conscious given 
the tough consumer environment and we successfully responded 
with a number of value initiatives. We ran promotions targeted at 
specific customer groups such as families with “ticket combo” 
offers and to Unlimited subscribers with money-off vouchers. 
During the year we focused on the development of offers in order 
to widen the appeal of bars and help stimulate demand. We also 
made progress in developing our coffee offer. At the end of the 
year we commenced work fitting out a new Starbucks coffee 
franchise trial at our Sheffield cinema to be opened by the end of 
March. If successful, we have plans to roll-out more franchises  
in the future.
Other Income
Other Income includes all other revenue streams outside box office 
and retail and represents 7.0% of total revenues. Other Income fell 
4.3% to £24.3m (2010: £25.4m). 
The major element of Other Income is screen advertising revenue. 
Trading at Digital Cinema Media Limited (“DCM”), our joint venture 
screen advertising business formed in July 2008, was marginally 
lower than the previous year and reflected the difficult trading 
environment within the wider advertising industry, especially towards 
the end of the year. A major success for DCM was winning the 
account to provide screen advertising to the Vue Cinema circuit 
with effect from 1 January 2011 which significantly increased DCM’s 
coverage of UK cinemas. During the year, Martin Bowley, Managing 
Director of DCM resigned and Simon Rees was subsequently 
appointed in his place on 3 May 2011 and joined the Board on  
31 August 2012.
DCM’s primary function is to sell advertising time on cinema screens 
on behalf of Cineworld and its other clients. It also engages in 
related promotional work between advertisers and cinemas. The 
management team at DCM has been driving operational efficiencies 
and effectiveness and during the year has been working on 
repositioning the operations to handle the digital format. We are 
excited by the opportunities for DCM when the three major circuits, 
Cineworld, Odeon and Vue become fully digitised by the end of 
2012, which will provide greater flexibility in delivering advertising 
to cinemas and potentially open up a new segment of the market.
 
Other Income included sales of 3D glasses, ticket bookings and 
theatre hires. The fall in income was mainly due to a fall in sales  
of 3D glasses, which reflected the lower 3D admissions compared 
with the previous year. We have seen more customers re-using 
their purchased glasses, which demonstrate the success of our 
initiative to encourage their re-use rather than disposal. In 2011, 
approximately 55% of customers attending 3D performances were 
still purchasing 3D glasses, which has not fallen significantly from 
the 2010 level of over 60%.
Investment in Digital
Since 2009, Cineworld has been replacing its 35mm film projectors 
with digital projectors, which bring many benefits such as removing 
the need for film reels, greater availability of product and the 3D 
format. At the end of December 2011, Cineworld had installed 
digital projectors at over 75% of its screens. It is expected that the 
conversion will be completed by the end of the summer of 2012. 
As film studios benefit in a major way financially, they have offered 
incentives to cinema exhibitors to help fund the conversion.
In June 2010 Cineworld entered into an agreement with Arts 
Alliance Media (“AAM”) whereby AAM utilises its Virtual Print Fee 
(“VPF”) agreements with film distributors to recover financial 
contributions over a maximum period of ten years, on behalf of 
Cineworld, from the film studios. Under the AAM deal, Cineworld 
acquires the digital projectors directly from a third-party and retains 
full control over the timing of their purchase and over their 
installation and operation. VPFs are expected to cover a substantial 
proportion of the total acquisition cost over a 7-10 year period.  
The VPFs are accounted for as a reduction in the cost of film hire 
thereby benefiting EBITDA. To date the overall VPF process between 
Cineworld, AAM and the film distributors has operated successfully. 
We earned over £4.0m of VPFs for the year and will continue to 
earn VPFs over the 7-10 year recovery period. 
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
Officers’ Business Review
c o n t in u ed	 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
17
Unlimited Card Programme
Our unique subscription programme, Unlimited, offers a competitive 
value proposition to our customers. The programme offers customers 
the opportunity to pay a fixed monthly (or annual) subscription, 
which enables them to watch as many 2D films (and 3D films  
on payment of a supplement fee) at our cinemas as they wish. 
Cineworld prides itself on being the only cinema operator in the  
UK and Ireland to offer a subscription programme and, to date, 
has over 280,000 members.
The programme is one of the pillars that underpin our strategy of 
growing other revenues and admissions. It brings to the Group the 
financial benefits of regular subscription income reducing the level 
of fluctuation in our revenues with subscription income 
contributing over 16% of total box office revenues. It also brings 
operational benefits by encouraging repeat visits, often at off-peak 
times. This, in turn, enables us to improve capacity utilisation at 
our cinemas, provide more retail opportunities and introduce a 
wider range of films than our competitors. As a result, we 
continued to enjoy significant market share among the smaller, 
less mainstream films in 2011.
Initiatives and Developments
We are keen to embrace the opportunities in improving our 
technology to allow more intelligent and integrated marketing, 
booking and ticketing using the internet and mobile devices and 
we are devoting time and resources to exploit the potential this 
offers and to ensure we remain competitive.
Activity on our consumer website increased in the year, recording 
over 54m visits, which puts it comfortably in the top 40 most visited 
websites in the UK (as reported in the IMRG Experian Hitwise Hot 
Shops List) during the year. In addition, our successful mobile 
enabled web booking service is now complemented by our 
applications (“apps”) for both the iPhone and Android phones 
which together attracted a further 35m visits in the year to the 
mobile channels.
The “MyCineworld” membership on the website continued its 
expansion with a total database of over 900,000 members. In the 
year we ran a trial at selected cinemas to encourage more users 
to join and book tickets through MyCineworld, by removing online 
booking fees and offering discounted tickets if booked through 
MyCineworld, which yielded positive results. Compared with the 
rest of Cineworld’s sites, the rate of joiners of 
MyCineworld was faster than the rest of the UK whilst the rate  
of online bookings grew significantly compared with the rest of  
the cinemas. 
The growth of MyCineworld is an important part of our strategy to 
engage further with our customers. It will enable us to improve our 
customer retention and help us to encourage more frequent visits 
to our cinemas. Furthermore, by transferring bookings online, we 
aim to improve customer service by reducing queues at the box 
offices and to convert more space to other activities which will 
improve the customer experience at our cinemas and help drive 
incremental revenues.
 
During the year we commenced projects to upgrade our cinema 
point-of-sale system and supporting systems covering finance and 
customer relationship management. These new systems will increase 
our transactional capabilities and support better communication 
with more of our customers. A number of pilot sites were successfully 
trialled with the new point-of-sale system and, since the end of the 
year, the programme to roll out the system to all cinemas has 
commenced. We anticipate completing all implementations by  
the end of the summer of 2012. 
In addition, we have continued to improve utilisation of cinemas at 
off peak times particularly through the hire of individual auditoriums. 
We continue to offer our cinemas as venues for other purposes from 
corporate conferences and private film hires, through to educational 
meetings and religious gatherings on Sunday mornings. Recently 
Cineworld become a preferred partner with De Vere Venues and will 
utilise De Vere’s sales and call centre capabilities to increase the 
venue hire business. This is currently being run at a few selected sites 
as a trial with a view to expand it to cover more sites in the future.
People and Diversity
Our people are core to the success of our business and to make 
Cineworld a great place to work. We continued to invest in our 
people throughout the Group with programmes such as The 
Academy programme for high potential cinema managers through 
to Step Up programmes for multifunctional staff. Also for the first 
time in 2011, we conducted a values survey amongst our people. 
The outputs are being used to ensure our people are engaged, 
motivated and retained.  Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
18
Expansion remains a key strategic  
priority for the Group.
We are an equal opportunity employer and seek to recruit, retain 
and promote staff on the basis of their qualifications, skills, 
aptitude and attitude. A wide range of applicants are encouraged 
to apply for all roles and we have a wide and diverse workforce. We 
still believe that the single most important factor is to identify, 
recruit and retain the people we consider, on merit, to be the best 
candidates for each particular role.
Key Business Relationships
We have worked hard at developing good working relationships 
with a wide range of film studios, both major and independent. We 
work closely on combating film piracy and on simplifying the film 
buying process. Our focus on driving cinema admissions and on 
providing our customers with a wide range of films through our film 
strategy has resulted in many opportunities for us to work with 
film studios on promoting smaller films to a wider audience. 
We continue to work very closely with developers, landlords and 
council planners to ensure that we maintain a pipeline of new 
sites for the future. In addition we work closely with our principal 
suppliers, on promotions that help drive ticket and retail sales. We 
seek to manage relationships with our suppliers fairly and to work 
in accordance with our aspirations as set out in our ethical policy, 
a cornerstone of which is treating others as you expect to be 
treated yourself. 
Our partnership with Tesco through its Clubcard loyalty 
programme continued to thrive, aided by Tesco advertising to 
promote the ticket offer, which helped to reinforce Cineworld’s 
brand profile nationally.
The Environment and Health and Safety
As a multi-site business, the Group is conscious of its total energy 
consumption and the amount of waste material generated and 
therefore continues to work to reduce both energy usage and the 
quantity of non-recyclable waste materials produced. During 2011, 
initiatives taken include reducing the number of deliveries to our 
sites, reducing packaging and removing non-biodegradable plastic 
from our retail products, and trialling energy reduction measures. 
With over 48 million customer visits, the safety and welfare  
of Cineworld’s customers, staff and contractors are of prime 
importance. Annual cinema audits covering Fire, Food and Health 
and Safety are undertaken on an unannounced basis in order  
to reflect the true operation of health and safety at each site. 
Overall, the initiatives implemented in 2011 have shown 
improvements in site standards compared to last year’s results.
Expansion
Expansion remains a key strategic priority for the Group over the 
medium term and we have ensured that we have the financial 
capability, through a new increased bank facility, to pursue such 
opportunities. Our strong financial position and our good track 
record of driving high footfalls through our cinemas make us an 
attractive partner for property developers.
 
In November 2011, as scheduled, we opened a seven screen 
cinema in Leigh, which increased the Group’s estate to 79 
cinemas with 811 screens. Work has begun on site for a new 
seven screen cinema in Aldershot, which is currently planned to 
open in the fourth quarter of 2012. Whilst the uncertainty over 
development financing and timing of new projects continues, we 
have seen improvements in confidence in the property market 
during the year with renewed interest in existing proposals as well 
as new plans and ideas being tabled. We have over 10 development 
sites signed and have a good pipeline of further opportunities. 
The addition of sites will facilitate the expansion of our Unlimited 
and MyCineworld propositions into new locations, thereby growing 
our business.
In June 2011, we opened a new concept cinema called “The 
Screening Rooms”, a three screen cinema in Cheltenham. The 
concept offers higher levels of comfort and service within a 
premium environment. Results to date have been positive and we 
are actively looking for new sites to expand the concept.
We were disappointed that the attempt to purchase the Cinesur 
chain of cinemas in Spain was unsuccessful due to circumstances 
outside our control, but we continue to look for suitable expansionary 
opportunities that are in the best interests of our shareholders.
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
Officers’ Business Review
c o n t in u ed	 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
19
Key Trends and Factors Potentially Affecting the Future
The future success of the Group in 2012 will principally remain 
dependent on the strength of the film releases during the year. 
Sequels and franchises will continue to contribute a significant 
number of the higher profile blockbuster films. Many such films 
outperform the original film or concept, so the film studios will 
continue to look to capitalise on proven successful formulae. The 
film release programme for 2012 includes a strong line-up of 
potential blockbusters. 
Some film studios may seek to maximise their revenues using 
whatever distribution means available including video on demand. 
While initial limited trials have been unsuccessful, such initiatives 
are expected to continue and may put added pressure on the 
current theatrical release window in which new films are only 
shown in the cinema before being released via other media. 
The importance of non-US markets to the US film studios is 
increasing and the UK remains an important market outside the 
US. “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2” and “Pirates of 
the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides” achieved about 75-80% of their 
worldwide box office revenues outside the US. The UK market also 
showed more resilience in 2011 than the US, which suffered a fall 
in box office of 5.4% against 2010. The success of UK films such 
as “The King’s Speech” and “The Inbetweeners” and the stable 
level of cinema going in the UK should further encourage Hollywood 
to support both locally produced product and product that appeals 
to the UK and Irish market. 
It is anticipated that 2012 will see a similar number of 3D films as 
did 2011 (37 3D films compared with 25 in 2010). Studios have 
also started to convert some older film titles to 3D, thereby adding 
to the range of 3D film choice. With completion of our conversion 
to digital projection in 2012, we will be well placed to capitalise on 
this product.
The price differential between 3D and 2D films is expected to 
continue and, with the number of 3D films planned for release 
similar to last year, should help support the overall revenue levels. 
Films appealing to an older teenage and young adult audience, 
such as Transformers, have had the highest take up of 3D (as high 
as 80%) whilst films which appealed to younger children have so 
far tended to attract a lower proportion of 3D business.
Within alternative content, plays and opera will continue to provide 
solid business through established providers such as the New 
York Metropolitan Opera and the National Theatre. Otherwise the 
source of alternative content remains fragmented. Stabilisation 
and consolidation amongst suppliers should increase the range  
of content, improve the operational delivery and result in financial 
savings. Revenues from alternative content are anticipated to 
grow further, albeit from a small base. 
The general economic and consumer environment is expected to 
remain uncertain for the foreseeable future and will continue to 
present trading challenges. While customers have been prepared 
to pay higher ticket prices to see 3D films, there are certain 
segments of the customer base that prefer to see 2D for cost 
reasons. Demand in the wider advertising industry is anticipated 
to remain challenging, which would be reflected in cinema screen 
advertising. However, full digital conversion by DCM’s major 
exhibitor clients (Cineworld, Odeon and Vue) anticipated for late 
2012 will improve DCM’s competitive position and support its 
objective of gaining a larger share of advertisers’ budgets. 
 
We expect that the strong mid-week business enjoyed over the last 
couple of years will continue. The appeal of “Bargain Tuesdays” and 
“Orange Wednesdays” promotions demonstrate that customers 
continue to seek value in the current economic climate.
Finance for many continues to be challenging which could delay 
the development of new cinemas. Nevertheless we remain 
committed to expanding our business – through opening more 
cinemas and through the acquisition of other cinema portfolios – 
facilitated by our strong financial position. 
Cineworld will continue to offer a highly compelling choice within 
the wider range of entertainment and leisure activities. We believe 
going to the cinema remains one of the best value forms of 
popular entertainment and will continue to attract audiences who 
seek quality film product and where the immersive viewing 
experience remains unmatched by any other media. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
20
Financial Performance
EBITDA and Operating Profit
EBITDA was up 7 .3% at £63.3m (2010: £59.0m) and was achieved 
through better cost margins as box office takings were spread 
across a wider range of films compared with last year while virtual 
print fee income was higher than the previous year, reflecting the 
first full year of operating the Arts Alliance contracts. These were 
offset by lower sales of 3D glasses and by higher property costs 
(reflecting the full year cost of the O2 cinema, acquired in June 
2010) and in general increases in operating costs. Nevertheless 
operating profit at £42.6m was 14.8% higher than 2010 of £37 .1m. 
Operating profit included a number of non-recurring and non-trade 
related costs. The primary charges in the year related to 
transaction and reorganisation of £3.9m. The main component 
was £3.2m of reorganisation costs of which the majority was 
related to the digital conversion and to harmonise audio/visual 
work across the whole circuit. The annual labour savings resulting 
will recover the initial costs within two years. The remainder was 
£0.7m of transaction costs relating to the refinancing and the 
attempted acquisition of Cinesur. Offsetting these costs was a 
£1.7m credit which was due to the change in the inflation 
assumption from the Retail Price Index to the Consumer Price 
Index in valuing the defined benefit pension scheme and £0.5m 
from refinement of a dilapidation provision. 
The depreciation and amortisation charge (included in administrative 
expenses) in the period of £18.9m was higher than last year (2010: 
£17 .2m), reflecting the higher expenditure on digital projectors to date. 
Finance Costs
On 31 March 2011, the Group refinanced its existing debt. The 
new five-year facility consists of a £70m term loan with repayments 
of £2.5m every six months commencing June 2011 and a revolving 
credit facility of £100m. This will provide more flexibility for the 
Group in its expansion activities as well as other growth opportunities. 
Interest will be charged on the facility at 1.95% above LIBOR. 
There are two covenants: net debt to EBITDA of 3 times and 
pre-rent EBITDA to interest plus rent of 1.5 times.
The Group considered its hedging strategy at the time of the 
refinancing and concluded that it was not economic to close out 
the existing swap, which at 31 March 2011, was in a liability 
position of £2.2m. In addition, it took out two new interest rate 
swaps to hedge the remainder of the £70m term loan. Under IFRS, 
there is a requirement for the existing swap to be re-assessed to 
establish whether it still meets the criteria for hedge accounting. 
The hedge was considered to be ineffective, and as a result, its 
fair value on 31 March 2011 of £2.2m was recycled to the income 
statement as an exceptional finance expense. In addition, mark to 
market movements on the ineffective portion of the hedge from 
the point of refinancing up until 29 December 2011 of £1.1m was 
also recorded as a credit in the income statement.
The net financing costs of £9.2m included the £2.2m charge  
on closing out the hedge upon refinancing and the £1.1m credit 
arising from the mark to market movement, as described above 
and the ongoing financial expenses of £9.7m, offset by financial 
income of £1.6m. The financial expenses comprised of £5.3m in 
relation to interest on the bank loans which was higher than the 
previous year and reflected the higher margin charged on the facility. 
The balance of the financial expenses were non cash amounts 
arising from the amortisation of financing costs, the unwinding  
of discount on onerous leases, the pension scheme and from  
the finance lease. The financial income of £1.6m was primarily 
from the actuarial valuation of the returns on the defined  
benefit pension plan assets and was at a similar level  
reported for 2010.
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
Total
52 week
period ended 
30 December
2010
Total
Admissions 48.3m 47.2m
£m £m
Box office 242.1 235.8
Retail 81.6 81.6
Other 24.3 25.4
Total revenue 348.0 342.8
EBITDA* 63.3 59.0
Operating profit 42.6 37.1
Financial income 1.6 1.6
Financial expenses (9.7) (8.2)
Refinancing interest expense (1.1) –
Net financing costs (9.2) (6.6)
Share of loss from joint venture – (0.1)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 33.4 30.4
Tax on profit on ordinary activities (9.5) (9.4)
Profit for the period attributable to equity 
holders of the Company
23.9 21.0
* EBITDA is defined as 
operating profit before 
depreciation, impairments, 
reversals of impairments  
and amortisation, onerous 
lease and other non-recurring 
or non-cash property  
charges, transaction, 
pensions, refinancing  
and reorganisation costs.
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
Officers’ Business Review
c o n t in u ed	 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
21
Earnings
Overall profit on ordinary activities before tax was £33.4m, 9.9% 
higher than 2010 of £30.4m. Basic diluted earnings per share 
amounted to 16.7p (2010: 14.7p). Taking account of the one-off, 
non-trade related items described above, totalling £1.7m and the 
charge of £1.1m relating to the hedge on the previous bank loan 
(included in net financing costs), the adjusted pro-forma diluted 
earnings per share were 19.2p (using a normalised tax rate of 26.0%) 
compared with 2010 of 18.1p. The weighted average number of 
shares in issue in 2011 was 142.0m including 607,096 shares 
issued during the year.
Taxation
The overall tax charge was £9.5m giving an overall effective tax 
rate of 28.4% for the year (2010: 30.9%). The corporation tax 
charge in respect of the current year was £8.5m. There was a 
credit of £3.3m relating to prior years, which was offset by £4.3m 
of deferred tax charges principally relating to capital allowances 
(the difference between the tax written down value of the capital 
allowance and the net book value of the underlying assets).
Cash Flow and Balance Sheet
The Group continued to be strongly cash generative at the operating 
level. Total cash generated from operations was £55.3m compared 
with £50.7m in 2010 primarily due to the better trading levels 
against the weather affected December 2010. Better trading also 
resulted in higher creditor levels at the end of 2011 compared 
with 2010. 
Net cash spent on capital for the year was £25.0m. Included in 
this cash expenditure was £14.8m in relation to the purchase of 
digital projectors. £2.3m (net of reverse premium) was spent on 
the new sites in Leigh and the new Screening Rooms concept in 
Cheltenham. The balance of other capital expenditure of £7.9m 
was for equipment replacement, site refurbishments and expenditure 
on various initiatives such as the replacement of the cinema point 
of sale and upgrading automated ticket sales points. The high level 
of internally generated cash has funded our entire capital expenditure 
whilst repaying term debt of £5m and paying dividends of £15.2m. 
Fees of £1.8m were paid in respect of the refinancing.
 
Net debt at the end of December 2011 of £101.4m was broadly 
level with 2010 of £100.8m. Net debt included a £4.5m liability 
valuation of the interest rate swap hedge on the bank loan (2010: 
£2.8m liability) which primarily reflected a larger hedged amount 
of £65.0m under the new facility. The liability position arose 
because the fixed rate of interest payable on the swap was higher 
than the LIBOR rate receivable on the hedged portion of the loan 
for the remainder of its five-year term. 
As in previous years, the Group remained well within its banking 
covenants on its new facility and achieved financial targets which 
enabled it to benefit from a low margin on its bank debt of 1.95% 
above one month LIBOR. The bank loan at the end of the year was 
comfortably below two times the EBITDA of 2011. The Group 
enjoys the security of a substantially larger revolving credit facility 
of up to £100.0m (of which £32m remained drawn at the end of 
the year) as part of the overall £170.0m bank facility which further 
enhances the Group’s overall liquidity.
Dividends
The Directors are recommending to shareholders for approval a 
final dividend in respect of the period ended 29 December 2011 
of 7.4p per share, which taken together with the interim dividend 
of 3.6p per share paid in October 2011, gives a total dividend in 
respect of 2011 of 11.0p per share, a 0.5p increase on the level 
in 2010. Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be 
paid on 5 July 2012 to shareholders on the register at 8 June 2012.
Board Changes
On 11 May 2011, Matthew Tooth left the Board, having stayed  
on in an independent capacity, following the divestment by The 
Blackstone Group (“Blackstone”) of its interest in the Group in 
November 2010. Blackstone’s and Matthew’s contribution have 
been of great value. On 10 June 2011, Richard Jones resigned 
from the Board and as Chief Financial Officer, having started with 
the business over 15 years ago and having made a significant 
contribution over that period. On 1 December 2011 Philip Bowcock 
was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer.
Current Trading and Looking Ahead
The current financial year has started satisfactorily with a 
reasonable level of business carrying over from the Christmas 
period with the main films being “Mission Impossible: Ghost 
Protocol”, “Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows” and “Girl with 
the Dragon Tattoo”. The performances of films released so far this 
year such as “The Artist”, “Iron Lady” and “War Horse”, whilst 
receiving critical acclaim and being in line with internal expectations, 
have been lower than the same period last year which benefitted 
from the unexpected success of “The King’s Speech”.
The film release schedule for the remainder of 2012 is strong and 
takes into account the timing of the European Football Championships 
and the Olympics. Amongst those films planned for release are 
“Skyfall” (the next Bond film), “The Hobbit”, “The Dark Knight 
Rises” (the latest in the Batman franchise) and “The Amazing 
Spiderman”. This release schedule for the rest of the year together 
with the completion of the digital rollout, and the continued 
expansion of MyCineworld and Unlimited, means the business is 
well placed to maximise its opportunities.
Stephen Wiener  Philip Bowcock
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
8 March 2012 
Find further information  
on our business at:
www.cineworldplc.com Five people who have helped us become UK No.1
Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
22
Prestigious venues  
and high standards  
of excellence
David Spence – General Manager of the Year
W i t h 	 E u r op e ’ s 	 l a r g e st 	 3 D 	 sc r een , 	 a n 	 e x c i t i n g 	 r el a t i o n s h i p
w i t h 	 S ky 	 a n d 	 a s 	 C i n e w o r l d’ s 	 fl a gsh i p 	 v en u e 	 f o r 	 mo v i e
pr emier es ,	 C inew orld	 at	 the	 O 2	 has	 a	 lo t	 t o	 liv e	 up	 t o .
A t 	 t h e 	 h el m 	 is 	 D a v i d 	 S p enc e , 	 w h o 	 w o n 	 t h e 	 h u g el y 	 c o v e t e d
Gen er a l 	 Ma n a g er 	 o f 	 t h e 	 Y e a r 	 a w a r d 	 a t 	 C i n e w o r l d’ s
A n n u a l 	 Ma n a g em en t 	 C o n f er en c e 	 l a st 	 y e a r , 	 r e c ei v i n g
a 	 st a n d i n g 	 o v a t i o n 	 fr o m 	 a l l 	 h is 	 c o l l e a g u e s 	 a n d 	 p eer s . 23
Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Find further information  
on our business at:
www.cineworldplc.com Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
24
Availability of  
Film Content
Cinema-going in the UK is driven primarily by output from Hollywood, which is dominated by six film studios. 
There is a risk that these studios may seek to negotiate film hire terms less favourable to Cineworld. Such a move 
could be countered in part by Cineworld’s negotiating position due to its market share in the UK and Irish markets.
During periods where there are fewer or no major films to drive cinema attendance, our box office revenues may 
decline. Cineworld’s Unlimited card subscription service generates regular subscription revenues which helps to 
offset lower box office receipts during quieter trading periods. It is also part of Cineworld’s wider strategy to 
promote interest in a range of films beyond the traditional Hollywood blockbuster in such areas as Bollywood, 
other foreign language and small and mid-range films.
Digital Conversion Costs Film studios have agreed to help finance Cineworld’s conversion to digital projection and it expects to recover up 
to 90% of the total costs of conversion over a 7-10 year period. By mid 2012, Cineworld will have incurred the costs 
of converting 100% of its projection facilities to digital, which could be up to £40m. There is a risk that payments 
are not received, or that full recovery of the costs does not happen within the 10 year term of the agreed 
arrangements. There are binding contracts, put in place by Arts Alliance Media (“AAM”) from which Cineworld 
benefits, for the recovery of these payments. Cineworld chose AAM because of the quality of its systems and 
experience in administering this type of contract and, to date, all payments have been received in accordance 
with the contractual terms. As time passes, the risk of non-recovery of this expenditure will reduce.
Alternative Media and 
Advancement of 
Technology
Film studios may choose to release their films through other channels instead of primarily through exhibition at 
cinemas. The box office success of a film is often, however, an important factor in establishing its value in 
subsequent film distribution channels such as streaming, DVD, cable and pay television and the internet.
Also the film studios may seek to reduce the release window (the period between the film being released at the 
cinema and other distribution channels as mentioned above). The window is currently agreed at 16 weeks and 
three days in the UK, to capitalise on box office awareness and success. Cinema exhibitors have, historically, 
mitigated this threat by refusing to screen films with reduced release windows or insisting on paying reduced 
film rentals which has minimised reductions to date.
The existence of DVD (and video before that) has proven the ability of cinema to co-exist with alternative media. 
Additionally the increase in use of digital and 3D technology in cinemas should encourage the film studios to 
continue to use cinemas as the primary release channel.
The continuing development of existing and new technology (such as 3D television and internet streaming) may 
introduce new competitive forces for the film-going audience. The cinema does, however, provide a unique 
social experience that to date cannot be matched by watching films at home. Also trials by studios to release 
films on the internet during the theatrical release window have, so far, not proved to be commercially successful.
Film Piracy Film piracy (aided by technological advances) has long-term implications for the business and industry as it may 
eventually force film studios to invest less in films resulting in the release of fewer films and/or an increase in the 
use of other channels for releasing films. The quality of copies pirated by recording from a cinema screen have 
improved and can be of a similar quality to films pirated from other media and copies made in the earlier 
manufacture and distribution stages. It is, however, currently not possible to produce a 3D pirated version of the 
original film from a portable recording device used in a cinema. So far, the impact of piracy has been higher on 
alternative media (especially on DVD) than on cinema. Cineworld works with and continues to be a strong 
supporter of initiatives by The Federation Against Copyright Theft.
Risks and Uncertainties
Understanding and managing risks and  
uncertainties which affect our business plays an  
ever increasing role in the operations of the Group.
The following is a summary of the principal business specific risks 
and uncertainties facing the Group rather than all risks. If any of 
these risks or other unforeseen risks materialise, they could have 
a serious adverse effect on the Group’s business and its financial 
condition, in turn impacting upon the value of its securities in issue. 
Where possible and appropriate, the Group seeks to mitigate 
these risks and uncertainties. 
Some factors which may mitigate particular risks and 
uncertainties are also set out below. In determining whether  
a risk is principal or not regard has been taken of the Group’s  
risk register, the probability of a particular risk crystallising and  
the impact it would have if it did. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
25
Screen Advertising 
Revenue
Screen advertising accounts for a significant proportion of the Group’s profits and the level of revenues earned 
will be affected by the overall demand for advertising and the competitive pressures for that advertising spend. 
In addition, lower levels of admissions may impact the level of advertising which the business can attract 
resulting in reduced screen advertising revenues. 
The formation of Digital Cinema Media Limited in 2008, with a joint venture partner, was a positive step towards 
taking closer control of future screen advertising revenues. The advantages of screening advertisements to a 
captive audience in cinemas and the flexibility of digital media to deliver more and varied advertising are 
potential opportunities to attract more advertisers and to generate higher revenues.
Poor Location Selection 
and Construction
The selection of the wrong location for the development of a new cinema, or its poor construction, could result in 
lower than expected returns and a series of poor decisions on location, or poorly constructed cinemas, could 
seriously impact the Group. Each potential site is reviewed carefully and the management team are experienced 
in the choice of location for, and development of, new sites.
UK and Global Economy The main driver of cinema-going is the film, although it is recognised that macro-economic influences may affect 
cinema-going and the level of retail spend per customer on each visit. In addition, the price of such items as 
energy and foodstuffs has a direct impact on costs which we may not be able to pass on to customers. With 
cinema being a less expensive form of entertainment and leisure, economic downturns may benefit cinemas at 
the expense of other entertainment and leisure activities.
Availability of Capital The cost and availability of finance, both debt and equity, will affect the Group’s ability to undertake investment 
and expansion. This has been highlighted by the recent developments in the financial world which have caused 
severe reductions in lending and reduced investor confidence. Limited availability of capital has impacted property 
developers who have not been able to proceed with developments which would have included new cinemas. 
The failure of one of the banks used by the Group could result in the loss of deposits and/or banking facilities. 
Banks are monitored and reviewed and deposits spread between a number of institutions to reduce the risk.
Reduced lending may also affect the financing of film productions which could reduce the supply of films and/or 
delay their production and releases in cinemas.
The Group put in place a new bank facility in 2011 which is sufficient for the existing business needs. In addition, 
the Group has a promising pipeline of potential new sites and its strong covenant is attractive to developers and 
places Cineworld as a preferred tenant in many proposed new leisure developments.
Competition Existing competitors could change their strategies or a new competitor could enter the market at a local or 
national level reducing trade. The cost of developing new sites or acquiring existing cinemas are, however, 
barriers to entry as are the lack of readily available cinemas for acquisition.
Cinemas also compete for customers against other leisure and entertainment attractions. In the short-term, major 
events such as the Olympics and other sporting tournaments may impact attendance levels for their duration. 
Also, over the longer term, the aging of the UK population may result in lower attendances and lower sales of key 
retail products because of changes in fashions and tastes. Scheduling of appropriate films and the marketing of 
targeted retail items should help ensure cinema remains an attractive entertainment choice and maintain spend 
per person. Also retaining flexibility in staffing levels should help to minimise any impact on profits. 
Reputational Risk The reputation of the Group is key in its relationship with all stakeholders including employees, customers and 
investors. Damage to its reputation could impact its earnings, growth prospects and the ability to secure capital 
funding. The Group has a strong customer services focus and invests in maintaining its estate and seeks to 
ensure that its reputation is safeguarded by corporate governance structures and risk management measures 
including specific Fraud and Ethics policies.
Failure of IT Systems  
and Suppliers
The failure of, or the unsuccessful upgrading or replacement of, the Group’s IT systems, including its website, 
ticketing and finance systems and Unlimited card scheme administration, could seriously impact the Group’s 
continued success. The Group’s website and Unlimited card scheme administration are hosted by different 
specialist companies. In addition, all suppliers are monitored and the Group employs an appropriately qualified 
team to maintain its in-house systems with external experts being employed to oversee, and help manage, 
major projects involving the upgrading or replacement of such systems.
Government Regulations 
and Actions
Cineworld’s business and operations are affected by central and local regulations covering such matters as 
planning, the environment, health and safety, licensing, food and drink retailing, data protection and the 
minimum wage. Failure to comply with this type of legislation may result in fines and/or suspension of the activity 
or entire business operation. In addition, changes to pension legislation such as automatic enrolment and 
regulation relating to the Group’s defined benefit schemes, could result in additional costs from funding pension 
obligations or from changes in the way pension schemes are administered. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
26
Five people who have helped us become UK No.1
T a m l i n 	 Mc K i n n o n 	 is 	 He a d 	 o f 	 t h e 	 C u st o m er 	 Ser v i c e s 	 t e a m .	
W i t h 	 mo r e 	 a d m iss i o n s 	 t h a n 	 a n y 	 o t h er 	 c i n ema 	 c h a i n 	 i n 	 t h e	
UK , 	 C i n e w o rl d 	 is 	 f o c u s e d 	 o n 	 en c o u r a g i n g 	 c o n st r u ct i v e	
f ee d b a c k , 	 a dd r e ss i n g 	 p r ob l em s 	 a n d 	 i n st i ga t i n g 	 c h a n g e	 	
t o	 impr o v e	 the	 c ust omer	 experienc e	 ac r oss	 	
Cine worl d’ s 	 c i n ema s .	
We exemplify Cineworld’s  
Customer First strategy
Tamlin McKinnon – Head Office, Customer Service 27
Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Find further information  
on our business at:
www.cineworldplc.com 28
Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
The Board acknowledges its duty to ensure the 
Group conducts its activities responsibly and with 
proper regard for all its stakeholders. 
Corporate Responsibility
The Board is committed to ensuring that an appropriate standard 
of corporate governance is maintained throughout the Group. This 
commitment includes recognition by the Group of the importance 
of taking into account its corporate social responsibilities (“CSR”) 
in operating the business. In this context, Cineworld seeks to 
integrate CSR considerations relating particularly to social, ethical, 
health and safety, and environmental issues in its day-to-day 
operations. The Board acknowledges its duty to ensure the Group 
conducts its activities responsibly and with proper regard for all  
its stakeholders including employees, shareholders, business 
partners, suppliers and local communities. Further information  
in respect of the Group’s activities is set out below together with 
illustrative examples.
Community
Cineworld observes the British Board of Film Classification’s 
guidelines for film classification unless the local authority specifies 
otherwise; within this framework however, it seeks to show as 
wide a range of film product and other screen content as possible. 
Screenings are frequently driven by local communities and their 
wishes. For example, Cineworld was once again the number one 
exhibitor for Bollywood product in the UK during the period.
In addition, Cineworld has continued to show a wider range of film 
product than its main competitors including non-English language 
titles, smaller British releases and independent American 
productions. This year has also seen Cineworld showing Polish 
releases for the first time.
Cineworld has continued its commitment to alternative content in 
the form of live screenings from the Metropolitan Opera and the 
National Theatre. Cineworld also showed a wide range of other 
cultural and sporting events such as “Phantom of the Opera”, 
“Kings of Leon” and “Wimbledon” (in 3D). Screening such a wide 
range of content means that we attract a wider range of audiences 
into our cinemas and helps us distinguish ourselves in the 
marketplace from our principal competitors.
2011 saw Cineworld working again with various charities, local 
government and community groups. Activities included Cineworld 
staging a series of screenings with children’s hospices in conjunction 
with BAFTA, running charity premieres of “Arthur Christmas”  
and continuing its partnership with “The Times Spelling Bee”. 
Undertaking such activities helps to make the Cineworld brand 
better known in local communities.
Cineworld was also a venue partner for several festivals including 
the Bradford International Film Festival, the Jameson Dublin Film 
Festival, and the Glasgow Film Festival all of which help to promote 
Cineworld’s brand through the wider film industry and increase 
awareness of the Cineworld brand in audiences that might  
not normally associate Cineworld with this kind of wider film  
based activity.
Access for All
Cineworld has been keen to promote a “Movies for All” policy. 
Increasing accessibility results in local cinemas playing a fuller 
role in the communities in which they operate and offer larger 
potential audiences. On Saturday mornings it is still possible for 
children to see films for £1 which is a price that has not been 
increased for over 15 years. Senior citizens and students receive 
discounts at certain times. Cineworld also subscribes to the Cinema 
Exhibitor Association (“CEA”) card scheme which allows registered 
disabled customers to bring a carer with them free of charge.
All new cinemas are designed to exceed current statutory 
requirements to provide buildings which are technically advanced, 
yet meet high operational standards in terms of public service, 
safety and accessibility. They are designed to remove physical 
features which can hinder the use of the facility by the less 
physically able, so that auditoriums are as accessible as possible 
given the restrictions of any particular location. The opportunity is 
also taken to enhance access within cinemas when they undergo 
major refurbishment as part of an ongoing programme of 
improvements. During the year, these initiatives resulted in three 
cinemas receiving awards/nominations from their local communities 
for disability access.
Cineworld continued to support the CEA Disability Working Group 
and, internally, the business’s own Disability Focus Group met 
regularly to review all aspects of disability access and the 
improvement in the services provided in this area. It also participated 
in a session of the All Party Parliamentary Group for Disability 
which was focusing on access to cinemas for disabled customers.
During 2011, over 1500 new Cineworld staff received induction 
training in “Disability Awareness and Welcoming Disabled Customers” 
and more than 800 staff received refresher training. Cineworld 
also delivered in excess of 120,000 audio descriptive screenings, 
over 10,000 subtitled screenings and 14 cinemas, in response to 
requests from local groups, ran special autism screenings. With 
the Cineworld estate due to be fully digital by late 2012, further 
expansion of all these services will be possible. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
29
S h a u n 	 J on es 	 – 	 Nat i on a l 	 O pe r at i on s 	 M a n age r	
with 	 the 	 Cine w orld 	 r e w ar d 	 r ecipient s
Film Piracy
With films being released first in cinemas, there remains a 
significant risk of piracy within the cinema industry. Cineworld 
continues to work closely with the CEA, The Federation Against 
Copyright Theft (“FACT”) and INFA©T Ireland in order to help reduce 
and prevent film piracy. In line with Cineworld’s operational strategy, 
each cinema management team has a responsibility to ensure that 
they do everything reasonably practicable to protect the intellectual 
property rights of films and alternative content exhibited within  
the cinemas.
With the ever changing threat of evolving technologies and smaller 
undetectable recording devices, Cineworld seeks to mitigate this 
risk by constantly reviewing and developing its training programme, 
policies and procedures to ensure its staff are able to effectively 
prevent film piracy. Night vision technology is utilised throughout 
the circuit and there is an increased vigilance around high-profile 
vulnerable release titles. During the year, Cineworld received 
recognition from film distributors including Paramount and Warner 
Bros for action taken in preventing piracy within the business.
The annual FACT awards were held in November and a total of eleven 
rewards were presented nationally to UK film exhibitors. Four of 
these awards were presented to Cineworld staff at Cineworld 
cinemas at Bexleyheath, Ilford, Wood Green and Glasgow Renfrew 
Street for their efforts in preventing piracy.
Environment
Cineworld seeks to comply with all relevant environmental 
legislation and to operate in an environmentally sensitive manner. 
The Directors acknowledge the impact that the business has on 
the environment and seek to mitigate it. Often changes which help 
to mitigate our environmental impact also reduce our operating 
costs. For instance, in 2011, over 50% of all the promotions run 
by Cineworld were operated solely online, removing the need for 
hundreds of thousands of tickets to be printed, distributed, 
reconciled and subsequently sent back to the promoter.
Being a multi-site business, the Group is conscious of its total 
energy consumption and the amount of waste materials 
generated, and is actively working to reduce both energy usage 
and the quantity of waste materials produced that cannot be 
recycled. During 2011, there was an increased focus on raising 
energy awareness at cinema sites with the aim to promote best 
practice and to reduce energy usage through better housekeeping 
and operating more efficiently. The installation of automated meter 
reading gas meters has now been completed at 72 sites (2010: 41). 
Weekly energy reports for gas and electricity are regularly reviewed 
and used to identify those sites requiring greater focus on energy 
reduction.
A pilot energy efficiency project at the Cardiff cinema site succeeded 
in reducing carbon emissions at the site by over 15%. Based on the 
success of this project, six other cinema sites had similar works 
rolled out in 2011. The energy consumption for these sites has 
been, and will be, monitored into 2012 to ensure similar reductions 
in carbon emissions are obtained, and further sites will be 
identified for similar energy saving projects in 2012.
The Group is looking to reduce further its carbon footprint and, linked 
with this, to improve its mid-table ranking in the Carbon Reduction 
Commitment (“CRC”) league table which was published on the 
8 November 2011. Across 73 comparable sites, the Group managed 
a total energy reduction of 5.5% in 2011 compared to 2010.
 
The conversion to digital technology, which continued during the 
year, further reduced Cineworld’s environmental impact. The move 
away from 35mm celluloid prints reduces the use of raw materials 
for the production of bulky prints using chemical processes, which 
ultimately are shredded as they are unable to be recycled at the 
end of their relatively short life. In addition, the distribution of digital 
content through small hard drives greatly reduces the delivery 
costs and associated carbon footprint. Throughout the year, over 
40% of film content (2010: 25%) and 100% of all alternative content 
was delivered in digital format. Ultimately cable or satellite delivery 
should remove the carbon impact almost completely.
The introduction of 3D technology has brought its own challenges 
with the use of special disposable 3D glasses. In early 2009, 
Cineworld started to recycle these glasses and then in November 
2009, it altered its pricing structure from a premium for 3D films 
with “free” glasses to a smaller premium with customers being 
required to purchase glasses separately. This change has 
significantly encouraged customers to retain their glasses for 
future use and, during 2011, on average around 45% of audiences 
for 3D films brought with them glasses obtained from previous 
visits (2010: 40%).
Retail
Cineworld takes a proactive stance on how it markets food and 
drink in its cinemas and continually looks to respond to the 
challenges of marketing responsibly through offering more healthy 
options and reducing its impact on the environment, whilst 
maintaining the wide overall choice that customers demand. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
30
2011 saw a considerable investment in  
a number of initiatives aimed at ensuring 
individuals reached their full potential.
We are committed to offering a wide range of products and 
therefore recognise the need to provide our customers with the 
nutritional information they need to help them make an informed 
decision on what they buy. As part of this commitment, we continue 
to review the sizes of our dispensed soft drinks and popcorn and 
explore what we can offer in the way of more healthy options. An 
example of this was the introduction of our new pre-packaged salt 
and sweet popcorn for use in our children’s munchbox. Each bag 
contains less than 40g of popcorn and this ensures a consistency 
of portion in each one sold not available on loose dispensed popcorn 
so customers can know more precisely what their children are eating.
Each time there is a requirement for a new or replacement contract, 
all proposed arrangements are carefully reviewed to ensure that 
they are not only commercially beneficial, but also appropriate 
account is taken of environmental considerations.
During 2011, a tender process was undertaken to identify a new 
wholesale distributor which could satisfy our business requirements, 
but also reduce our environmental impact by reducing the number 
of deliveries to Cineworld’s 79 cinemas. The successful distributor 
proposed using multi-temperature vehicles which enables one 
vehicle to deliver both ambient and frozen products. Switching to 
this distributor has meant that we have started to reduce the 
number of suppliers delivering directly to our sites. Less suppliers 
delivering directly means fewer deliveries to each site, a smaller 
environmental impact and cost savings.
A number of other initiatives were commenced in 2011 to help 
reduce energy consumption and waste. Examples include reducing 
packaging on our Christmas gift boxes by making them more 
streamlined and removing ancillary plastic panelling which was not 
bio-degradable and working with Ben and Jerry’s on a trial to collect 
empty plastic containers for recycling.
Our People
Cineworld’s people are crucial to ensuring the ongoing success  
of the business. All of our human resources initiatives are aimed 
at ensuring Cineworld is a great place to work and in turn, a great 
place to watch films. Once again, 2011 saw a considerable 
investment in a number of initiatives aimed at ensuring individuals 
reached their full potential and were able to play a full part in the 
teams in which they work.
Our internal Academy programme for high potential cinema 
managers commenced early in 2011 and the initial intake of 
seven are now half way through the two year programme. Working 
towards a level 7 qualification accredited by the Institute of 
Leadership and Management, the participants are due to 
complete the programme by the end of 2012. The Academy is 
developing key talent in a crucial area of our business to run our 
most complex and largest sites and ensures that when vacancies 
arise internal candidates are well placed to secure advancement 
and Cineworld does not lose any of its most talented people.
In addition to the regular and ongoing “core courses” which give 
continual learning opportunities to all our managers, the business 
rolled out a customer experience programme called the “Greatest 
Show on Earth” which sought to help people at all levels within our 
cinemas to understand the type of environment required to ensure 
good customer service. The year also saw the rollout of various 
training programmes focused on those staff affected by the 
continuing conversion to digital projection. The courses were 
offered to help staff take up alternative roles thereby enabling 
them to remain in the business if they wished and the Group to 
retain experienced cinema staff.
Cineworld is proud that a high proportion of management and 
supervisory positions are held by employees who have started within 
the organisation at lower levels. The nine month “Supervisor 
Step-up Programme” which develops supervisors up to management 
level has proved a huge success with 80% of new managers now 
coming via this route. In December 2011, the Group introduced  
a further step-up programme which will develop team members  
up to supervisor level over a six month period.
National Vocational Qualifications continue to be supported by the 
business and we currently have 68 active learners on programme 
with a further 86 having achieved qualifications this year. These 
qualifications importantly provide a route to progression for those 
at lower levels of the organisation and helps the Group ensure that 
the cinemas have the skills within the workforce that are crucial to 
our ongoing success.
Corporate Responsibility
c o n t in u ed	 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
31
For the first time in 2011, a survey was undertaken to understand 
more about the values of our people. Around 500 people completed 
the survey. A number of focus groups and interviews across all 
levels of the business took place. The outputs are being used  
to ensure that our people are engaged, motivated and retained 
which, in turn, will help Cineworld remain a great place to work. 
The values have already been weaved into our 2012 performance 
management framework to ensure that we truly embed the most 
effective way of working with our people. Also for the first time  
in 2011, performance ratings were linked directly to individuals’ 
bonus awards – this has helped ensure that everyone is 
recognised and rewarded for their individual contribution  
to the business.
All employees throughout the Group participate in the success of 
Cineworld through bonus schemes and Cineworld is proud that for 
the 17th consecutive year bonuses were paid to all qualifying staff 
in 2011. Cineworld is also committed to increasing the number of 
employees who hold shares in the Group. In December, circa 100 
members of staff benefited from the second maturity of the SAYE 
Share Option Scheme and were able to acquire Cineworld shares 
at £0.93, a price well below the prevailing market value, with the 
money they had saved in the scheme over a period of three years. 
Following its success, another invitation to staff to participate in 
the scheme is planned for 2012.
Diversity
Cineworld is an equal opportunity employer and seeks to recruit, 
retain and promote staff on the basis of their qualifications, skills, 
aptitude and attitude. A wide range of applicants are encouraged 
to apply for all roles. In employment related decisions, the business 
complies with all relevant legislation including that specifically 
targeted at preventing discrimination and such principles are 
embedded through the business by requisite policies.
Safety 
The ongoing management of the day to day health, safety and 
welfare of Cineworld’s customers, employees and contractors  
is of major importance with over 48 million customer visits a year. 
Further steps have been taken this year to ensure that each cinema 
management team has the knowledge, understanding and tools 
necessary to effectively manage health and safety to a high 
standard within its sites and to keep all our staff, customers  
and other visitors as safe as possible.
During the 2010/11 year, all of the cinemas were subject to a Fire, 
Food and Health and Safety Audit which were conducted on an 
unannounced basis by our external consultants. Sites achieved an 
average score of 90% (with 85% being considered the acceptable 
level of performance) and, in doing so, have continued to make 
good progress compared to the previous year with the average 
score increasing by 4% overall. Follow-up audits were undertaken 
at the sites where the standards were not found to be at the level 
expected (score below 85%) by the Group, and regular monthly 
compliance monitoring was completed for all remaining sites.
With effect from the end of 2010, additional mid-year compliance 
audits were also carried out by the General Managers, and also 
annually by Regional Managers at each site. These audits were 
designed to provide the means of checking that fire, food, health 
and safety standards are truly maintained at each cinema, to aid 
the identification of any new issues arising within the cinemas and 
to check that any existing issues are being managed properly.
Early indications from the 2011/12 year audit cycle are that site 
standards have been maintained with an average pass mark being 
maintained at a similar level to the previous figure. As previously, 
these audits are being undertaken on an unannounced basis in 
order to reflect the true operation of health and safety at each site.
As at 29 December 2011, the split between male and female members of staff at different levels of the business was as follows:
Cinema Sites Head Office
Multi-
functionals
and
Supervisors
Operations
Managers
Deputy
General
Managers
General
Managers
Head
Office
Staff
Middle
Managers
Vice
Presidents
Board of
Directors
Male 54% 62% 64% 73% 56% 69% 87% 89%
Female 46% 38% 36% 27% 44% 31% 13% 11% Five people who have helped us become UK No.1
32
Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
S t e v en 	 W o l l a st o n 	 is 	 t h e 	 Gen er a l 	 Ma n a g er 	 o f 	 C i n e w o r l d’ s	
n e w e st 	 s e v en - sc r een 	 c i n ema 	 i n 	 L ei g h , 	 n e a r 	 Ma n c h e st er .	
C i n e w o rl d 	 L e i g h 	 op en e d 	 i n 	 N o v em b er 	 2 0 1 1 	 w i t h 	 st a t e	 	
o f	 the	 ar t	 digit al	 f ac ilities	 and	 M yC inew orld	 o f fering	
c h ea pe r 	 t i c k e t s 	 o n lin e .
State of the art facilities and 
leading online ticketing
Steven Wollaston – Leigh 33
Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Find further information  
on our business at:
www.cineworldplc.com Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
34
Directors’ Biographies
4
3
2
1
1. Anthony Herbert Bloom
Chairman – Age 73
Anthony Bloom joined the Board in October 
2004 as Chairman and has served as 
Chairman of Cine-UK Limited since the 
business was founded in 1995. He was 
previously Chairman and Chief Executive  
of The Premier Group Limited (South Africa) 
and a director of Barclays Bank (South Africa). 
Mr Bloom holds Bachelor of Commerce and 
Bachelor of Law degrees from the University 
of Witwatersrand in South Africa and a 
Masters of Law degree from Harvard Law 
School. He was a Sloan Fellow at the 
Stanford Graduate School of Business.  
In 2002, Mr Bloom was awarded the degree 
of Doctor of Law (H.C.) by the University  
of Witwatersrand in recognition of his 
contribution towards the establishment  
of a non-racial society in South Africa.
2. Stephen Mark Wiener
Chief Executive Officer – Age 60
Stephen Wiener joined the Board in October 
2004. He has 42 years’ experience in the 
cinema industry, starting in the US as an 
usher whilst a full time student, and rising 
through various roles culminating in Vice 
President for Cineplex Odeon in New York 
City. He then moved to Warner Bros Europe 
in 1991 to become Managing Director.  
In 1995, he left to found Cine-UK Limited 
and developed the business into a chain  
of 34 cinemas before it was acquired by 
Blackstone in October 2004. At the time  
of the UGC acquisition, he was appointed 
Chief Executive Officer of the combined 
Group. He is also a Non-Executive Director 
of Digital Cinema Media Limited, the  
screen advertising company 50% owned  
by Cineworld.
3. Peter Wodehouse Williams
Non-Executive Director – Age 58
Peter Williams joined the Board in May 2006. 
He is Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and a member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees. He is Chairman 
of Erno Laszlo, a luxury skincare business 
based in New York, the Senior Independent 
Director of ASOS plc and Sportech PLC,  
a Non-Executive Director of Silverstone 
Holdings Limited and is a member of the 
Design Council. Peter was appointed as 
Chairman of Blacks Leisure Group plc in 
August 2011, where he led the creation  
of a turnaround strategy. In the past, he 
has also served on the boards of the EMI 
group, JJB Sports plc, GCap Media plc, 
Capital Radio Group plc. In his executive 
career, he was Chief Executive at Alpha 
Group plc and prior to that Chief Executive 
of Selfridges plc where he also acted as 
Chief Financial Officer for over ten years. 
Mr Williams has a degree in Mathematics 
from Bristol University and is a chartered 
accountant.
4. Philip Bowcock
Chief Financial Officer – Age 43
Philip Bowcock joined the Board in 
December 2011 as the Chief Financial 
Officer. His experience spans senior financial 
roles in property, retail and leisure industries, 
having acted as Financial Controller at 
Barratt Developments plc, Finance Director 
for Tesco’s UK property portfolio, Vice 
President of Finance at Hilton Group and 
latterly as Finance Director at Luminar 
Group Holdings plc. Mr Bowcock has  
a degree in Economic History and is  
a chartered management accountant. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
35
8
5
6
7
5. Thomas Berard McGrath
Non-Executive Director – Age 56
Thomas B. McGrath joined the Board in May 
2005 and is Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee. Previously he was Chief Operating 
Officer of Viacom Entertainment Group and 
President of Time Warner International 
Broadcasting, prior to which he worked for 
Columbia Pictures. Mr McGrath is Senior 
Managing Director of Crossroads Media 
Inc., Executive Chairman of Key Brand 
Entertainment and serves on the Board  
of Prime Focus World. Mr. McGrath holds 
an MBA from Harvard University.
6. David Ossian Maloney
Non-Executive Director – Age 56
David Maloney joined the Board in May 2006. 
He is the Senior Independent Director, 
Chairman of the Audit Committee and  
a member of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees. Mr Maloney  
is currently a Non-Executive Director of 
Enterprise Inns plc, Micro Focus International 
plc and Ludorum plc and the Chairman of 
Reed & Mackay Limited, Brandon Hire Limited 
and the Board of Trustees of Make A Wish 
Foundation (UK). Previously, he was the 
Chairman of Hoseasons Holdings Ltd, a 
Director of Virgin Mobile Holdings (UK) plc 
and of Carillion plc and held a number of 
senior positions, including Chief Financial 
Officer for Le Meridien Hotels & Resorts, 
Thomson Travel Group plc and Avis Europe 
plc. Mr. Maloney holds a degree in 
Economics from Heriot Watt University, 
Edinburgh and is a fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants.
7 . Martina Ann King
Non-Executive Director – Age 51
Martina King joined the Board in July 2010. 
She is a member of the Remuneration 
Committee. Martina is currently Managing 
Director of Aurasma which is a division of 
Autonomy and a Non-Executive Director of 
Capita Plc and Debenhams Plc. Previous 
roles include Managing Director of Capital 
Radio PLC and MD of Yahoo! UK and Europe.
8. Eric (Rick) Hartley Senat
Non-Executive Director – Age 62
Rick Senat joined the Board in July 2010 
and is a member of the Audit Committee. 
Rick has over 30 years’ experience of the 
film industry. He joined Warner Bros in 
1976, becoming its Senior Vice-President 
for Business Affairs in Europe. Among the 
projects with which he was closely associated 
are the Harry Potter films, Greystoke, Batman, 
Superman and many more. He retired from 
Warner Bros after 25 years’ service. He was 
a Director of the legendary and newly revived 
film company Hammer Film Productions, 
and has served as Vice Chair of the British 
Film Institute. Currently, he is a Non-Executive 
Director of Bank Leumi (UK) plc and Chairman 
of the London Film Museum. Mr Senat is a 
graduate of University College London and 
a solicitor. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
36
Directors’ Report
The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited 
financial statements for the 52 week period ended 29 December 
2011. The comparative period is for the 52 week period ended  
30 December 2010.
Principal Activity
The Company acts as an investment holding company for a group 
of companies whose principal activity is the operation of cinemas 
in the UK and Ireland for the exhibition of films and related retail 
activity. The Directors do not expect any change in the principal 
activity during the next financial period.
Strategy and Business Review
The strategy of the Group is set out on pages 6 and 7 and a review 
of its business and operations, including the main trends and factors 
likely to affect its future development and performance, is set out 
in the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers’ Business Review 
on pages 14 to 21. An explanation of the Group’s business model 
and an overview of the markets in which it operates are set out  
on pages 8 and 9.
Key performance indicators are set out below and the principal 
risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 24 and 25. Information 
about environmental, employee and community issues is set out 
in part below and also in the Corporate Responsibility (“CR”) 
section on pages 28 to 31.
The Strategy, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers’ 
Business Review, Risks and Uncertainties, the Group’s business 
model, overview of its markets and CR sections are incorporated 
by reference into this Directors’ Report. Certain statements in 
these sections are forward looking and so involve risk and 
uncertainty because they relate to events, and depend upon 
circumstances, that will occur in the future and therefore results 
and developments can differ materially from those anticipated. 
The forward looking statements reflect knowledge and information 
available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the 
Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward 
looking statements. Nothing in this Annual Report should be 
construed as a profit forecast.
To the extent it is material, the Group’s approach to the use of 
financial instruments in respect of its financial risk management 
objectives and its exposure to price, liquidity and cash flow risk is 
set out in Note 21 to the financial statements and are also 
incorporated in this report by reference.
Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”)
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
Admissions 48.3m 47.2m
Box Office Revenue £242.1m £235.8m
Average ticket price £5.01 £4.99
Retail spend per customer £1.69 £1.73
EBITDA £63.3m £59.0m
The Board of Directors and executive management receive a wide 
range of management information. The following are the principal 
measures of achievement that are reviewed on a regular basis to 
monitor the development of the Group:
Admissions
This measure is the ultimate driver of the business and primary 
indicator of business volume.
Box Office Revenue
This measure represents the principal revenue stream of the 
Group and is used generally within the cinema industry as the 
measure of market share (as reported by Rentrak/EDI).
Average Ticket Price and Retail Spend per Customer
Average ticket price is calculated by dividing total net box office 
revenue by total admissions. It is a composite of the various 
pricing structures operated during the day and for different 
promotions for each cinema. Together with admissions this gives 
box office, which is the primary economic measurement for the 
industry. Retail spend per head is a measure of the value of the 
retail activity and our ability to generate other revenues directly 
from our customers. Both box office and retail measures are 
stated excluding VAT.
EBITDA
EBITDA (as defined on Note 1 to the financial statements) serves 
as a useful proxy for cash flows generated by operations and of 
the Group’s ability to finance its capital expenditure and pay 
dividends.
Results and Dividends
The results for the Group for the 52 week period ended 29 
December 2011 are presented under International Financial 
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the EU. The results 
for the period are set out in the Group Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income on page 53. The results for the parent 
company are drawn up under UK GAAP.
An interim dividend of 3.6p per share was paid on 7 October 
2011. The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 7.4p 
which, if approved by the shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting (“AGM”), will be paid on 5 July 2012 to shareholders on 
the register on 8 June 2012.
Financial Risk Management
The Board of Cineworld regularly reviews the financial requirements 
of the Group and the risks associated therewith. The Group does 
not use complicated financial instruments, and where financial 
instruments are used it is for reducing interest rate risk. The 
Group does not use derivative financial instruments for trading 
purposes. Group operations are primarily financed from retained 
earnings and bank borrowings (including an overdraft facility). 
Further details of Capital management are set out in Note 21.  
In addition to the primary financial instruments, the Group also 
has other financial instruments such as debtors and trade 
creditors that arise directly from the Group’s operations.
The Group considers the currency risk on consolidation of the 
assets and liabilities of its Irish subsidiary, Adelphi-Carlton Limited, 
to be of low materiality and no hedging is provided. The Group’s 
trade and operations are otherwise based in the UK.
The Group refinanced its bank loan in March 2011 and entered 
into a new five year facility agreement consisting of a £70m term 
loan and £100m revolving credit facility to replace its previous 
facilities of £165m. The whole term loan, an amount of £70m, 
was hedged in accordance with the terms of the facility agreement 
on a weighted average fixed rate of 4.6% whilst the revolving credit 
facility attracted a floating interest of LIBOR plus 1.95%. The 
Group has taken steps to ensure that the swap is accounted for 
as a hedge and that changes in its valuation are recognised 
through reserves. Further information is provided in Note 21  
to the financial statements. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
37
Directors and Directors’ Interests
Short biographical details of the Directors of the Company, who 
held office at the end of the period under review, are given on 
pages 34 and 35.
During the year, there were a number of Board changes.
On 11 May 2011, Matthew Tooth, who had originally been appointed 
to the Board by the Blackstone Shareholders under the Relationship 
Agreement (both as defined below) as a Non-Executive Director, 
resigned from the Board to concentrate on his Blackstone activities.
On 10 June 2011, Richard Jones resigned from the Board and as 
the Chief Financial Officer of the Group. Philip Bowcock was recruited 
to replace him and he was appointed to the Board and to the role 
of the Chief Financial Officer of the Group on 1 December 2011.
The Articles of Association (the “Articles”) require one third of the 
Directors to retire by rotation at the AGM and, being eligible, to 
offer themselves for re-election. In addition under the Articles, any 
Director appointed during the year must resign and stand for 
re-election at the next AGM. However, in accordance with best 
practice, all the Directors are offering themselves for re-election 
this year at the AGM for the first time. Following the Board 
evaluation process undertaken in November 2011, the Board is 
satisfied that each Director standing for election continues to 
show the necessary commitment and to be an effective member 
of the Board due to their skills, expertise and business acumen.
 
Details of the Directors’ interests in the issued share capital of 
the Company at the beginning and end of the year under review 
are set out below. Details of the Directors’ remuneration and 
information on their service contracts are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 50.
Details of the Directors’ interests in the ordinary shares of the 
Company arising under the Group’s Share and Option Schemes are 
set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 49 and 50. No rights 
to subscribe for shares in or debentures of Group companies were 
granted to any of the Directors or their immediate families, or 
exercised by them, during the financial period. None of the other 
Directors had any disclosable interest in the shares of Group 
companies and there have been no changes to Directors’ share 
interests between 29 December 2011 and the date of this report.
None of the Directors has a material interest in any contract of 
significance to which the parent company or a subsidiary was a 
party during the financial year, other than as disclosed above,  
in their service contracts or letters of appointment described  
on page 47 and 48 and in Note 24, Related Parties.
Conflicts of Interest
The Articles were amended at the 2008 AGM to permit the Board 
to consider, and if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a 
Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, 
with the interests of the Company. There is in place a formal 
system for the Board to consider authorising such conflicts 
whereby the Directors who have no interest in the matter decide 
whether to authorise the conflict. In deciding whether to authorise 
the conflict, the non-conflicted Directors are required to act in the 
way which they consider would be most likely to promote the 
success of the Company for the benefit of all shareholders and 
they may, and do, impose conditions to be attached to such 
authorisations. The Board believes that the arrangements for 
reporting and considering such conflicts operate effectively.
Share Capital and Control
The Company has only one class of share capital formed of 
ordinary shares. All shares forming part of the ordinary share 
capital have the same rights and each carries one vote. Details  
of the share capital, and changes in it over the period, are shown 
in Note 20 to the financial statements. There has been an increase 
in the issued share capital between 29 December 2011 and the 
date of this report as a result of the issue of 47,066 ordinary 
shares to satisfy options being exercised under the Cineworld 
Group Sharesave Scheme.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive Company 
reports and accounts, to attend and speak at General Meetings  
of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
There are no restrictions on transfers of, or limitations on the 
holding of, ordinary shares and there is also no requirement of  
any prior approval of any transfers other than those which may  
be applicable from time to time under existing laws or regulation 
or if a person with an interest in 0.25% of the issued share capital 
held in certificated form has been served with a disclosure notice 
and fails to respond with the required information concerning 
interests in that share capital. No ordinary shares carry any 
special rights with regard to control of the Company. There are  
no restrictions on voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares. 
The Company is not aware of any known agreements between 
shareholders that restrict the transfer of voting rights attached  
to ordinary shares.
The Directors who held office at the end of the financial period had the following interests in the ordinary shares of the Company:
Ordinary shares held directly
Ordinary shares held by  
companies in which a Director  
has a beneficial interest
Director
29 December
2011
30 December
2010
29 December
2011
30 December
2010
Anthony Bloom – – 1,723,224
*
1,723,224
*
Stephen Wiener 1,746,430 1,593,800 – –
Thomas McGrath 131,000 131,000 – –
David Maloney 10,000 10,000 – –
Peter Williams 20,000 10,000 – –
* Shares are held by a nominee for a Jersey based discretional trust, of which Mr Bloom is one of the potential beneficiaries. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
38
Directors’ Report continued
The Company’s Articles set out the rules governing the appointment 
and replacement of Directors. In addition the Articles, together 
with English law, define the Board’s powers. Changes to the 
Articles must be approved by shareholders in accordance with the 
Articles themselves and legislation in force at the relevant time. 
Updated Articles were adopted at the Company’s AGM in May 
2010 mainly to reflect the implementation of the final provisions 
of the Companies Act 2006.
Major Shareholder Voting Arrangements
Until November 2010, Blackstone Capital Partners (Cayman) IV 
L.P., Blackstone Capital Partners (Cayman) IV-A L.P. and 
Blackstone Family Investment Partnership (Cayman) IV-A L.P. 
(together the “Blackstone Shareholders”) in aggregate controlled 
the exercise of 20.09% of the rights to vote at general meetings  
of the Company. The Company and the Blackstone Shareholders 
entered into a Relationship Agreement dated 26 April 2007 to 
regulate the relationship between them. The Relationship Agreement 
terminated in November 2010 when the Blackstone Shareholders 
and their affiliates collectively held less than 10% of the voting 
rights of the Company as a result of selling their entire shareholding. 
Following termination of the Relationship Agreement, there are no 
special major shareholder voting arrangements.
Essential Contracts and Arrangements
The Group has a number of contractual agreements with its 
suppliers in support of its business. While the loss of some of 
these arrangements may cause temporary disruption, none on 
their own are considered essential to the business of the Group.
Change of Control
There are no significant agreements which take effect, alter or 
terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company 
except that under its current banking arrangements a change of 
control may trigger a right for lenders to require early repayment of 
all sums outstanding.
No Director or employee is contractually entitled to compensation 
for loss of office or employment as a result of a change in control; 
however, provisions in the Company’s share schemes may cause 
options or awards granted to employees to vest on a change  
of control.
Issue of New Shares and Purchase of Own Shares
At the AGM held on 18 May 2011, shareholders gave authority  
for the allotment of shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 
£946,500 subject to certain conditions. This authority will expire 
on the earlier of the 2012 AGM and 17 August 2012. No shares 
have been issued under this authority except 404,503 ordinary 
shares in respect of the exercise of share awards and options 
maturing under the Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan and 
the Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme. Details of the 607,096 
ordinary shares issued in the period in this respect are set out in 
Note 20.
Also at the AGM held on 18 May 2011, shareholders gave authority 
for the purchase of up to 21,280,000 ordinary shares in the 
Company for cancellation or placing into treasury. No shares have 
been acquired under this authority.
The Board proposes to seek shareholder approval at the AGM  
to renew both the Company’s authority to issue new shares and 
its authority to purchase its own ordinary shares for cancellation 
or placing in treasury. Details of the proposed resolutions are  
set out in the Notice of AGM (the “AGM circular”) dispatched to 
shareholders with the Annual Report and Accounts (or notification 
of their availability).
Annual General Meeting
The Notice convening the AGM, to be held at The Cineworld 
Cinema, South Side Shopping Centre, Wandsworth High Street, 
London, SW18 4TF at 11.30 am on 21 May 2012, is contained in 
the AGM circular. Details of all the resolutions to be proposed are 
set out in the AGM circular.
Directors’ and Officers’ Insurance and Indemnities
The Company maintains insurance cover for all Directors and 
Officers of Group companies against liabilities which may be 
incurred by them whilst acting as Directors and Officers. As at the 
date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the 
Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors as permitted by 
law and by the Articles against liabilities they may incur in the 
execution of their duties as Directors of the Company.
Substantial Shareholdings
At 29 December 2011, the Group had been notified, pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests in the 
voting rights of the Company. Notifications confirming a party’s interest has gone below the threshold notification level have not been 
included:
Voting Rights % of Total Voting Rights
*
Nature of Holding
Artemis Investment Management Limited 20,887,938 14.71 Direct interest
Parvus Asset Management (UK) LLP 20,172,460 14.21 See Note 1 below
HSBC Holdings PLC 14,163,717 10.00 Direct and indirect interest
AXA Investment Managers S.A. 7,850,070 5.53 Not disclosed
BlackRock Inc 7,132,407 5.02 See Note 2 below
Legal & General Group Plc 7,120,701 5.01 Direct and indirect interest
Rathbone Brothers PLC 7,024,615 4.95 Indirect interest
* Percentages are stated as at the time of notification.
Note 1: Disclosed as an equity swap being a financial instrument with similar economic effect to a Qualifying Financial Instrument.
Note 2:  Disclosed as an indirect interest in 6,539,188 shares plus a CFD (covering 593,219 voting rights) being a financial instrument with similar economic effect  
to a Qualifying Financial Instrument.
No additional notifications were received in the period from 29 December 2011 up to 7 March 2011 (the last practical date to include 
such notifications). Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
39
Political and Charitable Contributions
The Group’s policy, which it has followed, is to make no donations 
to political parties. During the year, the Group made charitable 
donations of £39,500 (2010: £38,000) to a variety of local and 
national charities in the UK. In addition the Group supported over 
30 film screenings on behalf of various charities in the year and 
responded to requests from charities and schools with over 1,100 
free tickets.
Payment of Suppliers
Cineworld Group plc, which holds the investments in the Group’s 
companies, does not trade itself and does not have suppliers as 
defined by the Companies Act 2006. The Directors believe, however, 
it would be helpful to give the disclosures on a consolidated basis. 
The Group seeks the best possible terms from suppliers appropriate 
to its business and in placing orders gives consideration to quality, 
delivery, price and terms of payment. The Group does not follow  
a specific payment code but has a policy to pay its suppliers in 
accordance with the specific terms agreed with each supplier.  
The average number of days’ payments to suppliers that were 
outstanding at 29 December 2011 for the Group was 27 days 
(2010: 24 days).
Employees
The policy is to recruit, employ and develop staff on the basis of 
the suitability of their qualifications and experience, regardless of 
sex, marital status, race, nationality, age, sexual orientation or 
religion. It is Company policy to give full and fair consideration to 
applications for employment from disabled people, having regard 
to their particular abilities and aptitudes. Full consideration is 
given to continuing the employment of staff who become disabled, 
including considering them for other reasonable positions.
The health, welfare and development of the Group’s employees 
remain a priority. With the intent of attracting, recruiting, developing 
and retaining key employees, Cineworld maintains a number of 
policies and procedures for the benefit of its employees, which can 
be accessed by employees via the Human Resources department 
and via the Human Resources manual on the Company’s intranet. 
Continuing education, training and development are important to 
ensure the future success of the Group and employee development 
is encouraged through appropriate training. The Group supports 
individuals who wish to obtain appropriate further education 
qualifications and reimburses tuition fees up to a specified level.
Regular and open communication between management and 
employees is essential for motivating the workforce. Briefings are 
held regularly to provide updates on the Group’s business and to 
provide opportunity for questions and feedback. There is regular 
consultation with the Broadcasting Entertainment Cinematograph 
and Theatre Union (“BECTU”). The Company also maintains both 
an internet website which is freely accessible and an intranet site 
accessible to all head office employees and at all cinemas.
Corporate Governance
Details of the Group’s Corporate Governance arrangements are 
set out in the Corporate Governance statement on pages 40 to  
44 which together with the Directors’ Remuneration Report and 
the Directors’ responsibilities statement form part of this Report 
together with any other parts cross referenced from it.
Corporate Responsibility
Cineworld recognises its responsibilities to the communities  
in which it operates and to operate in a way that respects the 
environment and people within those communities. Further  
details on its approach to such matters are set out in the 
Corporate Responsibility section on pages 28 to 31.
Significant Events since the Year End
There were no significant events.
Disclosure of information to Auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there 
is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s Auditors 
are unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps that he 
ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
Auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc have confirmed that they are willing to continue in 
office and a resolution proposing their reappointment, at a fee to 
be agreed by the Directors, will be proposed at the AGM.
Funding and Liquidity
Information regarding the Group’s business activities, together with 
the factors likely to affect its future development, performance 
and position is set out in the Chief Executive and Chief Financial 
Officers’ Business Review and the Risks and Uncertainties 
section on pages 24 and 25. The financial position of the Group, 
its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described in the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer’s 
Report on pages 14 to 21. In addition Note 21 to the financial 
statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management 
objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging 
activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
As highlighted in Note 16 to the financial statements, the Group 
meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its 
bank facilities which consist of a £70m term loan plus £100m 
revolver which matures in 2016. The current economic conditions 
create uncertainty particularly over (a) the level of demand for the 
Group’s products; and (b) the availability of bank finance in the 
foreseeable future.
The bank facility is subject to two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA to 
net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net finance 
charges. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of 
reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that 
the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current 
facility, including compliance with the bank facility covenants.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the annual financial statements.
By order of the Board
R B Ray 
Company Secretary 
Cineworld Group plc 
8 March 2012
Registered Office: 
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road 
Chiswick
London W4 5PY
Registered: England No: 5212407 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
40
Corporate Governance Statement
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
The Board is committed to ensuring that an appropriate standard 
of corporate governance is maintained throughout the Group. The 
principal governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the 
London Stock Exchange for the period covered by this statement 
are contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code published by 
the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010 (the “Governance 
Code”) and which is available on its website www.frc.org.uk. For 
the year ended 29 December 2011, the Board considers that the 
Company was compliant with the provisions of the Governance 
Code except that the Chairman did not meet the independence 
criteria on his appointment (Code Provision A3.1). Further details 
are set out below under the heading “Directors and Directors’ 
Independence”, otherwise this report explains how the Company 
has complied with the provisions of the Governance Code. The 
information required to be disclosed by the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules (“DTR”) 7.1 and 7.2 is set out in this 
statement except that information required by DTR 7.2.6 which is 
set out in the Directors’ Report on pages 36 to 39 and is 
incorporated in this statement by reference.
The Board
The Group is ultimately controlled by the Board of Directors of the 
Company. The Board is responsible for the overall leadership of the 
Group and for determining its long-term objectives and commercial 
strategy to create and deliver strong and sustainable financial 
performance to maintain and enhance shareholder value. In 
fulfilling its role, the Board ensures that necessary financial and 
other resources are available to enable the Group’s objectives  
to be met.
The Board meets regularly six times a year and also once for a 
strategy day. The meetings follow a formal agenda which includes 
matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board. The Board 
also meets, as and when necessary, to discuss and approve 
specific issues. All Directors receive notice of such meetings and 
are given the opportunity to comment on the issues being 
discussed if they are unable to attend the meeting.
A schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the 
Board has been agreed and adopted. These matters include: 
setting Group strategy; approving an annual budget and medium-
term forecasts; reviewing operational and financial performance; 
approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure; 
succession planning; approving appointments to the Board and  
of the Company Secretary, and approving policies relating to 
Directors’ remuneration and contracts.
The Board is supplied on a monthly basis with detailed 
management accounts and an overview of Group financial  
and operational information.
Directors and Directors’ Independence
At the start of the year, the Board was composed of nine 
members, consisting of the Chairman, two Executive Directors 
and six Non-Executive Directors, five of whom were considered 
independent. In May 2011, a Non-Executive Director, not 
considered independent, resigned and in June 2011, the Chief 
Financial Officer resigned. A new Chief Financial Officer was 
appointed in December 2011. Consequently, at the end of the 
year, the Board was composed of eight members, five of whom 
were considered independent.
Under provision A3.1 and B1.1 of the Governance Code, Anthony 
Bloom, Chairman of the Company, was not considered by the 
Board to be independent as at the time of his appointment as 
Chairman of the Company he also served as chairman on the 
board of another company, Cine-UK Limited, within the Group and 
had held this position since its foundation in 1995. The Board 
considers that, although Anthony Bloom was not viewed as 
independent on appointment, his knowledge and understanding of 
the business are such as to justify him retaining the role as Chairman. 
Matthew Tooth, a Non-Executive Director who resigned in May 
2011, was also considered by the Board not to be independent  
by virtue of his position at the Blackstone Group, with whom the 
Blackstone Shareholders were affiliated. Until November 2010, 
the Blackstone Shareholders were significant shareholders in the 
Company. The names of the Directors at the year end together 
with their biographical details are set out on pages 34 and 35.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors 
are set out in letters of appointment and are made available for 
inspection by any person at the Company’s registered office during 
normal business hours and will be available at the Annual General 
Meeting (“AGM”). Further details of the letters of appointment of 
the Non-Executive Directors and the service contracts of the 
Executive Directors can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 47 and 48.
The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive
The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate. 
The division of responsibility between the Chairman of the Board, 
Anthony Bloom, and the Chief Executive Officer, Stephen Wiener, 
is clearly defined in writing.
 
The Chairman, together with the Chief Executive Officer, leads the 
Board in determination of its strategy having regard to the Group’s 
responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, employees and 
other stakeholders. The Chairman is responsible for organising 
the business of the Board ensuring its effectiveness and setting 
its agenda. The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution  
of Non-Executive Directors and oversees the performance 
evaluation of the Board and he regularly discusses matters  
with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors 
being present.
The Chairman performs a number of external roles, but the Board 
is satisfied that these are not such as to interfere with the 
performance of the Chairman’s duties to the Group.
The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the Group on a 
day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial 
and operational performance of the Group. He holds regular 
meetings with his Executive Team consisting of senior executives 
who assist him in this task.
Independent Directors and the Company Secretary
The Governance Code recommends that, in the case of smaller 
companies incorporated in England which are below the FTSE 350, 
at least two non-executive members of the Board of Directors 
should be independent in character and judgement, and free from 
relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could 
appear to affect, their judgement. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
41
The Board considers that Martina King, David Maloney, Thomas 
McGrath, Rick Senat and Peter Williams are all Independent 
Non-Executive Directors being independent of management and 
have no business relationship or other relationship which could 
interfere materially with the exercise of their judgement.
David Maloney has been appointed as the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director and he, together with Peter Williams, is 
available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact 
through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer 
or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which contact 
is inappropriate.
The independent Non-Executive Directors bring an objective view 
point and range of experience to the Company and ensure that no 
individual or group of individuals is able to dominate the Board’s 
decision making. They play a key role in reviewing proposals and 
providing constructive challenge generally and in particular in 
respect of strategy. They also ensure that appropriate standards 
are being maintained. All the Non-Executive Directors have access 
to independent legal advice subject to consulting with the Board 
and following the agreed procedure.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and supporting 
the Chairman and the Board on Corporate Governance matters, 
ensuring Board procedures are followed and facilitating the good 
information flow within the Board and the Board appointed Committees.
Professional Development and Performance Evaluation
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Board’s responsibilities 
include facilitating induction and professional development. Any 
new Director receives a comprehensive, formal and tailored induction 
into the Company’s operations. Appropriate training is provided to 
new Directors and is also available to other Directors as required.
During the year, a performance evaluation was carried out in 
respect of the Board, the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees and each individual Director including the Chairman. 
The process involved the completion of assessment questionnaires 
by each of the Directors and Committee Members. The results were 
then collated by the Company Secretary and a summary presented 
to the relevant Committee and the Board. The evaluation confirmed 
that overall the Board and Committee processes were working 
appropriately and the Directors including the Chairman were 
performing satisfactorily; however, there were a few matters 
identified where Directors felt that processes could be improved 
further in certain areas. As a consequence additional time has 
already been spent on, and more time in the future will be allocated 
to, particular strategic issues and succession planning below 
Board level.
Although Cineworld Group plc is not a FTSE 350 company, the 
Board has decided that, with effect from the 2011 financial year, 
performance evaluations will be externally facilitated at least once 
every three years in accordance with Governance Code.
Board Committees
In accordance with best practice, the Board has appointed a number 
of Committees, as set out below, to which certain Board functions 
have been delegated. Each of these Committees has formal 
written terms of reference which clearly define their responsibilities. 
The terms of reference of each of the Board’s three Committees 
are available on the website or from the Company Secretary.
 
Audit Committee
During the year, the Company’s Audit Committee comprised three 
independent Non-Executive Directors (namely David Maloney, Rick 
Senat and Peter Williams). It met five times during the year. Both 
David Maloney and Peter Williams are considered by the Board to 
have recent and relevant financial experience. The Company 
considers that it complied with the Governance Code throughout 
the year as it recommends that the Audit Committee of a smaller 
company which is below the FTSE 350 should comprise of at least 
two members who should both be independent non-executive 
directors, and at least one member should have recent and 
relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its 
responsibility with regard to financial reporting, external and 
internal audits and controls, including:
•	
Monitoring the financial reporting process;
•	
Reviewing the Company’s annual financial statements;
•	
Reviewing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit work 
undertaken by external auditors;
•	
Advising on the appointment of external auditors  
and; 
•	
Reviewing the level of risk and the effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal audit activities, internal controls and risk 
management systems.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual 
Report and Accounts and half-yearly reports remains with the Board.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial 
Officer, other senior executives, the internal auditors and the 
external auditors may be invited to attend meetings, but are not 
members. During the period, the main activities of the Audit 
Committee were:
•	
Monitoring the financial reporting process and reviewing the 
half-year and annual financial statements with particular 
reference to accounting policies, together with significant 
estimates and financial reporting judgements and the disclosures 
made therein;
•	
Reviewing the management representations made to the 
external auditors and the Company’s procedures to ensure  
all relevant information has been disclosed;
•	
Discussing any issues arising out of the interim review and  
full year audit with the external auditors (in the absence of 
management where appropriate);
•	
Reviewing the risk register and the measures implemented to 
mitigate the principal risks facing the Group;
•	
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit 
function and the Group’s internal financial controls together with 
its broader internal controls and risk management systems;
•	
Considering the reports of Grant Thornton UK LLP review of 
specific areas of risk (following their appointment in November 
2008 to help implement a three year internal audit plan and 
their subsequent retention to focus on specific areas of risk);
•	
Making recommendations to the Board with regard to 
continuing the appointment and remuneration of the external 
auditor; overseeing the Company’s relations with the external 
auditor and monitoring the effectiveness of the audit process; 
and
•	
Reviewing its terms of reference and recommending changes 
to the Board. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
42
Corporate Governance Statement
continued
The Committee also considers on an ongoing basis the 
independence of the external auditors and has established 
policies to consider the appropriateness or otherwise of appointing 
the external auditors to perform non-audit services. In particular, 
under its terms of reference, all non-audit fee work needs to be 
approved by the Committee if the value of such work is likely to be 
greater than £30,000. As detailed on page 39 the external 
auditors are KPMG, who have provided certain non-audit services 
to the Company, principally in respect of advice on taxation and 
corporate finance matters. The Committee is satisfied that such 
work was best undertaken by KPMG and their objectivity has not 
been impaired by reason of this further work. The Committee  
also reviewed and continues to oversee the whistleblowing 
arrangements which enable employees to raise concerns about 
improprieties in financial reporting and other matters on a 
confidential basis.
Nomination Committee
The Company’s Nomination Committee is comprised of three 
members, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors 
(namely Thomas McGrath, David Maloney and Peter Williams) and 
it met twice during the financial year. The Company considers that 
it complies with the Governance Code, which provides that a 
majority of the members of the Nomination Committee should be 
independent non-executive directors. Due to the importance that 
the Directors play in the success of the Group, the Chairman is 
invited to attend meetings, and does so, except when his own 
position is being discussed.
The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging its 
responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board. It is 
responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board, the size, structure and composition of 
the Board, retirements and appointments of additional and 
replacement Directors, the independence of Directors and makes 
appropriate recommendations to the Board on such matters. It is 
also responsible for ensuring that Directors have sufficient time to 
discharge their duties on appointment, and thereafter, with such 
matters being specifically addressed in the letters of appointment 
of the Non-Executive Directors.
Board Diversity
During the year, the Nomination Committee considered the 
recommendations made by Lord Davies to achieve business-led 
solutions to the lack of female representatives on Boards. While 
the Committee considered gender, nationality and cultural diversity 
all to be important when reviewing the composition of the Board 
and possible new appointees, it believes that the single most 
important factor is to identify, recruit and retain the people it 
considered, on merit, to be the best candidates for each particular 
role. It is not currently in favour of setting specific targets for 
Board representation to be achieved by particular dates.
Following the resignation of the Chief Financial Officer in June 2011, 
a search for a replacement was undertaken in accordance with the 
above approach using an external search consultancy. Following 
interviews carried out by members of the Committee, the Chairman 
of the Company and the Chief Executive, the Committee 
recommended to the Board that Philip Bowcock should be 
appointed as the new Chief Financial Officer.
Remuneration Committee
During the year, the Company’s Remuneration Committee 
comprised three Non-Executive Directors (namely Martina King, 
David Maloney and Peter Williams) and met three times during the 
year. The Company considers that it complied with the Governance 
Code which provides that the Remuneration Committee of a smaller 
company which is below the FTSE 350 should consist of at least 
two members who are both independent non-executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in determining  
its responsibilities in relation to remuneration, including making 
recommendations to the Board on the Company’s policy on 
executive remuneration, determining the individual remuneration 
and benefits package of each of the Executive Directors and 
monitoring and approving the remuneration of senior management 
below Board level.
The Remuneration Committee appointed Towers Watson as an 
external adviser in November 2008 and again took advice from 
them during the year. Towers Watson have no other connection 
with the Group except as the actuary to the pension schemes of 
Adelphi-Carlton Limited, the Group’s operating company in Ireland.
The Chief Executive Officer is consulted on the remuneration 
packages of the other senior executives and attends discussions 
by invitation except when his own position is being discussed. 
Given the essential part remuneration plays in the success of the 
Group, the Chairman is also invited to attend meetings of the 
Committee and does so except when his own remuneration is being 
considered. The Committee does not deal with the fees paid to 
the Non-Executive Directors. The report of the Remuneration 
Committee is set out on pages 45 to 50.
Re-election
Under the Company’s Articles of Association, at each AGM each 
year one third of the Directors (or if their number is not three or  
a multiple of three, the nearest number to, but not less than one 
third) must retire by rotation and being eligible may stand for 
re-election. A Director must retire (and will be counted in the one 
third to retire) if he was last appointed or reappointed three years 
of more prior to the AGM or has served more than eight years as  
a Non-Executive Director (excluding as Chairman of the Board).
Although the Company is not a FTSE 350 company, all the Directors 
(and not just the one third required by the Articles) will be offering 
themselves for re-election at this year’s AGM reflecting current  
best practice for larger companies under the Governance Code. 
Biographical details of all the Directors are set on page 34 and 35. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
43
Investor Relations
The Directors value contact with the Company’s institutional and 
private investors. An Annual Report and Accounts is sent to all new 
shareholders and is otherwise made available to shareholders via 
the Company’s website unless they have specifically requested 
that a copy is sent to them. Presentations are given to shareholders 
and analysts following the announcement of the interim results 
and the preliminary announcement of the full year results. Interim 
management statements are issued twice each year in respect of 
the first and third quarters and, in addition, trading updates are 
issued in early January and late June immediately before the 
Company enters into its close period leading up to the interim  
and preliminary results announcement.
Separate announcements of all material events are made as 
necessary. In addition to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer, who have regular contact with investors over 
such matters, Anthony Bloom (the Chairman), David Maloney 
(Senior Independent Director), and Peter Williams (an Independent 
Non-Executive Director) are available to meet with shareholders 
as, and when, required. Additionally, the Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Financial Officer provide focal points for shareholders’ 
enquiries and dialogue throughout the year. The whole Board is 
kept up to date at its regular meetings with the views of shareholders 
and analysts and it receives reports on changes in the Company’s 
share register and market movements.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and 
institutional investors and welcomes their participation. The 
Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit Committee, 
Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee are available 
at the AGM to answer questions, and that all Directors attend.
The Company’s website (www.cineworldplc.com) provides an 
overview of the business. Major Group announcements are 
available on the website and new announcements are published 
without delay. All major announcements are approved by the 
Chairman and Executive Directors and circulated to the Board 
prior to issue. The Group also has internal and external checks  
to guard against unauthorised release of information.
Internal Controls
The Board is responsible for maintaining an effective system of 
internal control that provides reasonable assurance that the Group’s 
assets are safeguarded and that material financial errors and 
irregularities are prevented or detected with a minimum of delay.
 
The Group has in place internal control and risk management 
arrangements in relation to the Group’s financial reporting processes 
and the preparation of its consolidated accounts. The arrangements 
include policies and procedures to ensure the maintenance of 
records which accurately and fairly reflect transactions to enable 
the preparation of financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards or UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles, as appropriate, with reasonable 
assurance and that require reported data to be reviewed and 
reconciled, with appropriate monitoring internally and by the  
Audit Committee.
More generally the Directors are committed to implementing 
measures to ensure that there is an ongoing review of the 
effectiveness of the internal control system with procedures to 
capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in the case of 
those categorised by the Board as significant, that procedures 
exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy the failings.
The Board is satisfied that throughout the financial period in 
question such measures were in place throughout the Group  
and the Company fully complies with the requirements of the 
Governance Code in this regard.
The system of internal control manages rather than eliminates the 
risks to business objectives. In pursuing these objectives, internal 
controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material loss or misstatement of the financial statements.
Attendance at Meetings
The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows:
Board
(including
strategy day)
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Number of meetings in year 7 5 3 2
Attended Attended Attended Attended
Director
Anthony Bloom 7
*
5
†
2
†
2
†
Richard Jones 3
§
n/a n/a n/a
Martina King 7 n/a 3 n/a
David Maloney 7 5
*
3 2
Thomas McGrath 7 n/a n/a 2
*
Rick Senat 6 4 n/a n/a
Matthew Tooth 3
§
n/a n/a n/a
Stephen Wiener 7 n/a n/a n/a
Peter Williams 7 5 3
*
2
* Chairman of Board/Committee.
† Anthony Bloom attended these meetings by invitation.
§ Richard Jones and Matthew Tooth resigned as Directors on 10 June 2011 and 11 May 2011 respectively. Between 1 January 2011 and 10 June 20110, there were  
three Board meetings. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
44
Corporate Governance Statement
continued
Reflecting the Board’s commitment to the ongoing development of 
the Group’s system of risk management and internal control, 
Grant Thornton UK LLP, continued its appointment during the year, 
undertaking a number of specific reviews and reporting back to 
the Committee in the process making recommendations to help 
strengthen the risk management framework and internal control 
processes within the Group.
Under the Audit Committee’s terms of reference, it is tasked with 
reviewing the Company’s financial reporting and internal control 
procedures and to make recommendations to the Board in this 
area. Key elements of the Group’s risk management and internal 
control framework during 2011 were:
•	
The day-to-day involvement of executive members of the Board 
in all aspects of the business and their attendance at regular 
meetings with senior management, at which operational and 
financial performance and operational matters was reviewed. 
Financial performance was monitored and action taken through 
regular reporting to the Executive Directors and monthly reporting 
to the Board against annual budgets approved by the Board.
•	
Small groups of members of the senior management team 
meeting to review current and future risks in their particular 
areas of responsibility and expertise and to confirm the current 
measures in place to mitigate those risks.
•	
An established organisational structure with clear lines of 
responsibility and reporting requirements. Capital investment 
and all revenue expenditure being regulated by a budgetary 
process and authorisation levels (manual and systems), with 
appraisals and post-investment and period end reviews. Policy 
manuals setting out agreed standards and control procedures 
which include human resources related policies, information 
technology and health and safety.
•	
An established internal audit function headed by an 
experienced internal auditor who had access to all areas of the 
cinema operations and prepared reports which were available 
to the Board and reported regularly to senior management and 
the Audit Committee.
•	
Reports from Grant Thornton following their reviews of specific 
areas of risk as part of their ongoing assistance with the 
Internal Audit programme.
•	
An independent external consultant conducting annual health 
and safety audits and reporting to the Group Health and Safety 
Committee (comprising of members of the senior management 
team meeting on a quarterly basis) and the Audit Committee.
•	
The external auditors providing a supplementary, independent 
and autonomous perspective on those areas of the internal 
control system, which they assess in the course of their work. 
Their findings were reported to both the Audit Committee and 
the Board. 
•	
The Audit Committee reviewing the risk register, receiving 
reports on risk management and internal controls and 
monitoring the overall position and reviewing actions taken  
to address areas of weakness. 
•	
Each cinema having its own risk register prepared by undertaking 
an annual review of all risks affecting the cinema and detailing 
the control measures in place to mitigate those risks with key 
controls being reviewed by the internal audit function.
•	
Business Continuity Plans for Head Office and each cinema 
being in place with components of the Head Office plan being 
reviewed and tested during the year. 
•	
A specialist company conducting quarterly penetration testing 
on the Group’s IT networks.
•	
A whistle blowing policy being in place ensuring that members 
of staff who were concerned about impropriety, financial or 
otherwise, could raise such matters without fear of victimisation 
or reprisal.
Accountability, Audit and Financial
The Board is responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report 
and ensuring that the financial statements present a balanced 
assessment of the Group’s financial position and prospects. 
Responsibility is administered primarily by the Audit Committee,  
of which the terms of reference are referred to above.
A comprehensive budgeting system allows managers to submit 
detailed budgets which are reviewed and amended by the 
Executive Directors prior to submission to the Board for approval.
Human Resources
The Group endeavours to appoint employees with appropriate skills, 
knowledge and experience for the roles they undertake. The Group 
has a range of policies which are aimed at retaining and providing 
incentives for key staff. Objectives are set for departments and 
employees that are derived from the Group’s business objectives. 
The Group has a clear and well-understood organisational structure 
and each employee knows his or her line of accountability.
Insurance
It is not practical or possible to insure against every risk to the 
fullest extent. The Group has in place an insurance programme  
to help protect it against certain insurable risks. The portfolio of 
insurance policies is kept under regular review with its insurance 
broker to ensure that the policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
activities and exposures in light of cost, and the likelihood and 
magnitude of the risks involved.
By order of the Board
Anthony Bloom
Chairman
8 March 2012 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
45
Introduction
I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committee’s Report on 
Directors’ remuneration for 2011. It was another successful year 
for Cineworld, with the Group delivering healthy growth in revenues 
and profits enabling a 4.8% increase in the full year dividend to  
be made and executive remuneration decisions were made in  
this context.
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and 
has been approved by the Board. It complies with Regulation 11 
and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and also with the 
UK Corporate Governance Code. The report will be put to shareholders 
for approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”) requires the Auditors to 
report on certain parts of the report and to state whether, in their 
opinion, those parts of the report have been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Act. The report has therefore been divided 
into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
Remuneration Committee
The Company’s Remuneration Committee currently comprises three 
Non-Executive Directors (namely Martina King, David Maloney and 
Peter Williams) who are all deemed to be independent. The Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee is Peter Williams and the Secretary 
of the Committee is the Company Secretary. The Committee met 
three times in the financial period. The Committee’s terms of 
reference are available for inspection on the Company’s website 
(www.cineworldplc.com) or on request from the Company Secretary.
The Remuneration Committee monitors and recommends to the 
Board for approval the structure and level of remuneration for 
each member of the Senior Management Team (“SMT”) including 
the Executive Directors. The Committee received advice from 
Towers Watson during the year in relation to the Company’s 
remuneration policy and its implementation. Towers Watson was 
appointed by the Remuneration Committee in November 2008. 
Towers Watson has no other connections with the Company 
except as the actuary to the pension scheme of Adelphi-Carlton 
Limited, the Group’s operating company in Ireland. The Committee 
also received assistance from the Chairman of the Company, the 
Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Head of 
Human Resources and the Company Secretary, although they  
do not participate in discussions relating to the setting of their 
own remuneration.
The objective of the Group’s remuneration policy is that all 
employees, including Executive Directors, should receive appropriate 
remuneration for their performance, responsibility, skills and 
experience. Remuneration packages are designed to enable the 
Group to attract and retain key employees by ensuring they are 
remunerated appropriately and competitively and that they are 
motivated to achieve the highest level of Group performance in 
line with the best interests of shareholders. To determine the 
elements and level of remuneration appropriate for each member 
of the SMT, the Committee considers benchmark remuneration 
data for selected comparable companies and seeks to ensure 
that fixed costs are no higher than market median, that an 
appropriately significant proportion of potential pay is 
performance-related and that total pay opportunity is consistent 
with appropriate superior levels of pay for superior performance. 
Currently, the expected value of the performance-related element 
of the Executive Directors’ packages is around 55% of total 
remuneration at the target performance level. The arrangements 
are reviewed on a regular basis.
Remuneration Package
Executive Directors’ remuneration currently comprises an annual 
salary, a performance-related bonus, a share-based long-term 
incentive scheme, pension contributions and other benefits. 
Following a review in late 2009, the Remuneration Committee 
decided that, with effect from the 2011 financial year, bonus 
arrangements should be more heavily weighted towards longer 
term performance. From 2011 and thereafter, it was planned to 
increase awards for Executive Directors under the Long-term 
Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) from a level equivalent to 50% in value of 
annual salary to 75% and then to 100%. With effect from the  
2013 financial year and thereafter, the Remuneration Committee 
intends to reduce the level of the Performance Related Bonus 
which pays out for target performance, reflecting the potential 
greater benefit yielded by the higher LTIP awards starting to vest. 
This approach has been taken to ensure a smooth transition from 
the previous to the new arrangements.
Annual Salary
Salaries are reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee. 
The Board approves the overall budget for employee salary 
increases and the Committee agrees the specific increases for 
the SMT. For members of the SMT below Board level, the 
Committee receives a recommendation from the Chief Executive 
Officer which it reviews and approves as appropriate. In 
determining appropriate salary levels for each Executive Director, 
the Committee considers both the nature and the status of the 
Company’s operations and the responsibilities, skills, experience 
and performance of the Executive Director. The Committee 
compares the Group’s remuneration packages for its Executive 
Directors and employees with those for directors and employees 
of similar seniority in companies whose activities are comparable 
with the Group. It also takes into account the progress made by 
the Group, contractual considerations and salary increases 
across the rest of the Group (which for the year were generally 
around 3%).
Performance-Related Bonus
The Executive Directors and all other employees participate in a 
performance-related bonus scheme. The level of bonus is based 
primarily on overall Group performance in meeting its primary 
financial objectives in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation (“EBITDA”). The Committee ensures that challenging 
and clearly-assessable targets are set for Executive Directors.
Details of bonuses paid to Executive Directors for the year to  
29 December 2011 are included in the remuneration tables set 
out below. Bonuses are awarded wholly in cash. For the year 
ended 29 December 2011, Stephen Wiener was eligible for a 
bonus payable of up to 100% of salary on achievement by the 
Group of 95% to 120% of full year budgeted EBITDA. Richard 
Jones was eligible for a bonus payable of up to 95% of salary on 
achievement by the Group of 95% to 120% of full year budgeted 
EBITDA (pro-rated by time up to his leaving date). Bonuses are  
not payable unless a threshold of 95% of full year budgeted 
EBITDA is achieved.
For the 2012 financial year, the Remuneration Committee has 
decided that a portion of bonus should be measured against 
personal performance as measured by agreed strategic objectives. 
The level of bonus will be determined by a matrix of budgeted 
EBITDA and personal performance levels. No bonuses will be 
payable unless a threshold of 95% of full year budgeted EBITDA is 
achieved. For “on-target” performance, the arrangement will result 
in the same level of payment is the previous arrangements. 
Stephen Wiener is eligible for a maximum bonus opportunity of 
100% of base salary and Philip Bowcock is eligible for a maximum 
Directors’ Remuneration Report Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
46
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued
bonus opportunity of 95% of salary. The maximum bonus level will 
only be payable if both 120% of full year budgeted EBITDA and 
exceptional performance against personal objectives is achieved.
The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan (“PSP”)
The PSP was implemented at IPO and the first grant of awards 
was made in March 2008 after the announcement of the 
Company’s results for the financial year ended 27 December 
2007. Further awards have been made in March each year after 
the announcement of the Company’s results for the preceding 
financial year. Only the Executive Directors and members of the 
SMT, decided at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, 
participated in each grant. Details of the awards to the Executive 
Directors are set out below. Non-Executive Directors, including the 
Chairman, are not eligible to participate in the PSP.
Under the PSP, either awards of conditional shares are made that 
vest after three years or nil cost options over shares are granted 
which become exercisable after three years. In both cases, 
awards are subject to continued employment and the achievement 
of specified performance conditions (“Awards”). The performance 
conditions applying to all Awards to the Executive Directors in 
each year are that:
•	
30% of the Awards will vest if the average annual growth in 
earnings per share (“EPS”)* (calculated by comparing the EPS 
for the last financial year prior to the date of grant and the EPS 
for the financial year ending three years later) is not less than 
3.2%.
•	
100% of the Awards will vest if the average annual growth in 
EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the last financial year 
prior to the date of grant and the EPS for the financial year 
ending three years later) is at least 9.2%.
•	
Where the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by 
comparing the EPS for the last financial year prior to the date of 
grant and the EPS for the financial year ending three years 
later) is between the two limits above, the Awards shall vest on 
a straight-line basis between 30% and 100%.
* EPS for the 2008 grant is defined as the normalised undiluted earnings per share 
excluding any deferred tax charge relating to tax assets in existence on listing and 
exceptional items and for subsequent grants is defined as the adjusted pro-forma 
diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the financial statements.
 
Total shareholder return has been considered as an alternative  
or additional performance measure, but difficulties in identifying 
appropriate comparator companies has resulted in the Committee 
deciding to use EPS as the sole performance measure. The 
Remuneration Committee reviews the operation of the PSP each 
year and the performance conditions for each grant to ensure they 
are appropriate for the Company and the prevailing internal and 
external expectations. The conditions may be varied in exceptional 
circumstances following the grant of an award so as to achieve 
their original purpose, but not so as to make their achievement 
any more or less difficult to satisfy.
The maximum value of shares subject to an award to an individual 
in any financial year is 100% of annual base salary as at the award 
date, unless the Remuneration Committee decides that exceptional 
circumstances exist in relation to the recruitment or retention of 
an employee, in which case the limit is 150% of annual base 
salary. On vesting, participants will also receive additional shares 
or a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been 
paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates 
occurring between grant and vesting.
The Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme  
(the “Sharesave Scheme”)
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Sharesave 
Scheme, which is an HM Revenue and Customs approved scheme 
open to all employees of nominated companies who have a 
minimum of three months’ service at the date of invitation. Under 
the Sharesave Scheme, employees are eligible to acquire shares 
in the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the market value at 
grant if they agree to enter into a savings contract for a three-year 
period. Consistent with the relevant legislation, no performance 
conditions apply. No options were granted under the Sharesave 
Scheme during the year as no fresh invitation was made to eligible 
participants. The second Sharesave grant made in 2008 did vest 
in the period and participants were able to exercise their options. 
Details of the interests of the Executive Directors in the Sharesave 
Scheme are set out below.
The Cineworld Group Company Share Option Plan (the “CSOP”)
The CSOP was approved by shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting (“AGM”) in 2010 and the first grant of awards was made 
in July 2010. A further set of awards were made in March 2011 
following the announcement of the Company’s results for the 
preceding financial year. Only the Executive Directors and members 
of the SMT, decided at the discretion of the Remuneration 
Committee, participated in the grants which consisted solely of 
HM Revenue and Customs approved options. In 2010 and 2011, 
each participant in the PSP had a proportional part of their PSP 
award replaced by a HM Revenue and Customs approved share 
option granted under the CSOP. Details of the awards to the 
Executive Directors under the CSOP are set out below which 
included identical performance conditions to the 2011 PSP 
awards. No unapproved share options under the CSOP have been 
granted. Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are not 
eligible to participate in the CSOP.
Satisfaction of Share Options and Awards
Awards under the PSP, the Sharesave Scheme and the CSOP can 
be satisfied using either new issue shares or shares purchased  
in the market in conjunction with the Cineworld Group Employee 
Benefit Trust (the “Trust”), established by the Company on  
24 March 2006 with independent trustees based in Jersey. 
However, if new issue shares are used, the following limits will apply:
•	
In any ten year period, the number of shares which may be 
issued under the PSP and under any other executive share or 
option scheme established by the Company may not exceed 
5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from 
time to time.
•	
In any ten year period, the number of shares which may be 
issued under the PSP and under any employees’ share or 
option scheme established by the Company may not exceed 
10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from 
time to time.
Share Retention Policy
A share retention policy exists under which each Executive 
Director is expected to build up over a period of time and then 
retain a holding in shares equal to 100% of his salary. As part of 
the process, he is expected to retain 50% of any shares he 
acquires under the Performance Share Plan or on the exercise of 
options, after allowing for the sale of shares to pay tax, until such 
time as he has built up such a holding. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
47
Performance Graph 
The graph below compares the Company’s total shareholder return performance against the FTSE 250 and FTSE All Share Travel and 
Leisure indices since IPO in April 2007*. The Remuneration Committee believes these indices to be the most appropriate comparators 
as the Group looks to benchmark itself against smaller companies within the FTSE 250 and is a member of the FTSE All Share Travel 
and Leisure sector. 
 * Rebased to 170p
The Shares of the Company commenced trading on the London Stock Exchange on 26 April 2007 at an offer price of 170p per share. 
Admission became effective and unconditional dealings in the shares commenced on the London Stock Exchange on 2 May 2007 .
The mid-market closing price on 29 December 2011 was 201p and the range during the period 31 December 2010 to 29 December 2011 
was 228.75p to 169.5p.
Pension Contributions
All employees, including Executive Directors, are invited to 
participate in a Group Personal Pension Plan which is a money 
purchase plan. All the major schemes operated by the Group are 
money purchase in nature and have no defined benefits. Two 
defined benefit schemes are operated in the UK and in Ireland 
and both have been closed to new members for a number of 
years. Details of these schemes are shown in Note 18 of the 
financial statements. The Group has no obligation to the pension 
scheme beyond the payment of contributions. The Company 
contributions for Chief Executive Officer are 20% of salary. The 
Chief Financial Officer has elected not to participate in the Group 
Personal Pension Plan and receives a pension allowance 
equivalent to 20% of salary. Bonuses are not pensionable.
Other Benefits
Benefits in kind for Executive Directors include the provision of a 
company car or car allowance, life insurance, permanent health 
insurance, private medical cover and, for the Chief Executive 
Officer only, a driver.
Executive Directors’ Contracts
The Group’s policy in entering into service contracts with Executive 
Directors is to enable the recruitment of high-quality executives 
and to obtain protection from their sudden departure, whether or 
not to competitor companies. In addition, service contracts are an 
important element in maintaining maximum protection for the 
Group’s intellectual property rights and other commercially 
sensitive information.
The details of the Executive Directors’ contracts are summarised 
in the table below: 
Director Date of contract Notice period 
Stephen Wiener 23 April 2007 12 months
Philip Bowcock 16 November 2011 6 months
Both Executive Directors are, under the terms of their service 
contracts, entitled to an annual review of their base salary each 
year. In the case of the Chief Executive Officer, a minimum 
increase in line with the Retail Prices Index must be made.
The Company may, in lieu of giving notice, terminate an Executive 
Director’s service contract by making a payment equivalent to 
95% (in the case of the Chief Executive Officer) and 100% (in the 
case of the Chief Financial Officer) of base salary and contractual 
benefits for the notice period. In this event the Director would not 
be entitled to any bonus for his notice period, but would be eligible 
for a pro-rata bonus for the period up to the date of the 
termination of his contract.
The Company’s policy is to endeavour to minimise any payment on 
early termination by insisting on mitigation of any loss where possible.
Non-Executive Directors’ Letters of Appointment
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, do not have 
service contracts with the Company. The terms and conditions of 
their appointment as Non-Executive Directors are set out in letters 
of appointment, which are subject to the provisions of the Articles 
of Association.
Cineworld FTSE all share travel & leisure FTSE 250
220
170
120
70
20
270
320
April 2007 Nov 2007 May 2008 Nov 2008 May 2009 Nov 2009 June 2010 Dec 2010 June 2011 Dec 2011
Cineworld FTSE all share travel and leisure FTSE 250 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
48
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued
Non-Executive Directors receive fees for services as members of the Board and its Committees. The level of fees is determined  
by the Board after taking into account appropriate advice (except in the case of the Chairman whose level of fee is determined by  
the Remuneration Committee), and no Director participates in discussions relating to the setting of his or her own remuneration. 
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Group’s share incentives or otherwise receive performance-related pay. Where a 
Non-Executive Director does not serve until the end of his term, the policy is to pay the fees due pro rata to the date of cessation.
The appointment of each Non-Executive Director is terminable on the notice period stated below unless their appointment is terminated 
by a resolution of the shareholders in general meeting or if they fail to be re-elected by shareholders in general meeting in which case no 
notice is necessary.
Their appointments were made as follows:
Director Date of appointment Notice period
Anthony Bloom 7 October 2004 1 month
Martina King 2 July 2010 1 month
David Maloney 22 May 2006 1 month
Thomas McGrath 16 May 2005 1 month
Rick Senat 2 July 2010 1 month
Peter Williams 22 May 2006 1 month
AUDITED INFORMATION
Aggregated Directors’ Remuneration
The total amounts for Directors’ remuneration were as follows:
Emoluments
(i) Executive
Name of Director
2011 
Fees/Basic 
salary 
£’000
2010
Fees/Basic 
salary 
£’000
2011 
Performance 
bonus
£’000
2010 
Performance 
bonus 
£’000
2011 
Benefits 
£’000
†
2010 
Benefits 
£’000
2011 
Other 
Payments 
£’000
2010 
Other 
Payments 
£’000
2011 
Total 
£’000
2010
Total 
£’000
2011 
Company 
contributions 
to money 
purchase 
pension 
schemes 
£’000
2010 
Company 
contributions 
to money 
purchase 
pension 
schemes 
£’000
2011
Total 
including 
contribution 
to money 
purchase 
pension 
scheme 
£’000
2010
Total 
including 
contribution 
to money 
purchase 
pension 
scheme 
£’000
Stephen Wiener 441
*
419 300 343 34 31 – – 775 793 88 84 863 877
Richard Jones
^
117 246 73
††
189 8 16 342
**
– 540 451 23 49 563 500
Philip Bowcock
^^
21 – – – 2 – – – 23 – 4 – 27 –
579 665 373 532 44 47 342 – 1,338 1,244 115 133 1,453 1,377
* With effect from 1 July 2011, Stephen Wiener’s salary was increased by 6.4%. 
† Other benefits include a company car or car allowance, life assurance, permanent health insurance, private medical cover and, for Stephen Wiener only, a driver.
^ Richard Jones left the Company on 17 June 2011.
†† Richard Jones received an annual bonus payment for 2011, but only for the period up to his leaving date of 17 June 2011 and not for the full year.
** Richard Jones was paid up to his leaving date on 17 June 2011. In accordance with his contract, on leaving, he received a one off payment of £258,000 principally 
representing 95% of his salary for his notice period and a one-off pension contribution of £50,000 was made on his behalf. He also retained the use of his company car and 
petrol card for the notice period valued at £11,000. In addition, he received a non-contractual payment of £23,000. 
^^ Philip Bowcock joined the Company on 1 December 2011.
(ii) Non-Executive
Name of Director
2011
Fees/Basic
salary
£’000
2011
Reimbursement
Of Travelling
Expenses
£’000
2011
Total
£’000
2010
Fees/Basic
salary
£’000
2010
Reimbursement
Of Travelling
Expenses
£’000
2010
Total
£’000
Anthony Bloom 100 – 100 100 – 100
Martina King 38 – 38 19 – 19
David Maloney 53 1 54 51 1 52
Thomas McGrath* 38 46 84 38 8 46
Alan Roux** – – – 29 – 29
Rick Senat 38 – 38 19 – 19
Matthew Tooth** 12 – 12 33 – 33
Peter Williams 53 – 53 51 1 52
332 47 379 340 10 350
* Prior to 6 January 2011, Thomas McGrath travel costs from the United States to attend the Cineworld Board meetings, including related subsistence, in the UK were covered 
by the tax relief provision under section 373 ITEPA 2003 for non-UK domiciled employees up until the expiry of the 5 year relief period in January 2011. There is an equivalent 
provision for such costs under the Social Security (contributions) Regulations 2001, Schedule 3S, Part VIII, which has also been assumed. 
** Alan Roux and Matthew Tooth were originally appointed by the Blackstone Group and their respective Directors’ fees were payable to the Blackstone Group. Following the 
sale by the Blackstone Group of its shareholding in the Company on 18 November 2010, Alan Roux stepped down from the Board, however, Matthew Tooth remained a 
Director in an independent capacity, although his Director’s fees continued to be paid to the Blackstone Group. He subsequently resigned as a Director on 11 May 2011.  
No compensation was paid in respect of his departure. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
49
There was no increase in the fees paid to the Chairman or the Non-Executive Directors during the year. The basic fee for a Non-Executive 
Director was £33,000 p.a. An additional fee of £5,000 p.a. is paid for being a member of a particular committee. A further additional fee 
of £5,000 p.a. is paid to each of the Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees. The Non-Executive Directors do not receive 
any share options, bonuses or other performance-related payments nor do they receive any pension entitlement or other benefits.
Directors’ Share and Share Option Scheme Interests
Details of share options of those Directors who served during the period are as follows:
(a) Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme
Name of Director
At
31 Dec
2010
Granted
during
year
Exercised
during
year
Lapsed
during
year
At
29 Dec
2011
Exercise
price
Market
price at
exercise^ Exercise period
Stephen Wiener 10,322 – 10,322 – – £0.93 £1.92 01/12/11–31/05/12
Richard Jones 10,322 – – 10,322
*
– £0.93 – 01/12/11–31/05/12
^ The price on exercise is the mid-market closing price on the day of exercise as the shares were retained.
* Richard Jones left the Company on 17 June 2011. In accordance with the rules of the Sharesave Scheme, his option lapsed on 17 June 2011.
(b) Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan
Name of Director
At
31 Dec
2010
Awarded
during
year
Vested
during
year
Lapsed
during
year
At
29 Dec
2011
Exercise
price
Market
value at
date of
vesting** Vesting date or exercise period
¶
Gain^^
Stephen Wiener 142,308
*
– 142,308 – – £Nil £2.06 20/03/11 £334,993
152,343
†
– – – 152,343 £Nil – 26/03/12
109,774
§
– – – 109,774 £Nil – 30/03/13–30/09/13
– 153,205
^
153,205 £Nil 29/03/14–29/09/14
Richard Jones 82,692
*
– 82,692 – – £Nil £2.06 20/03/11 £192,453
89,843
†
– – 23,138
††
66,705 £Nil – 26/03/12
64,058
§
– – 38,084
††
25,974 £Nil – 30/03/13–30/09/13
89,606
^
– 83,059
††
6,547 £Nil 29/03/14–29/09/14
* Mid-market closing price of a Cineworld Group plc share the day before grant was £1.30.
† Mid-market closing price of a Cineworld Group plc share the day before grant was £1.28.
§ Mid-market closing price of a Cineworld Group plc share the day before grant was £1.85.
^ Mid-market closing price of a Cineworld Group plc share the day before grant was £2.08.
** The price on exercise is the mid-market closing price on the day of exercise. In practice Stephen Wiener’s award was settled totally by the issue of new shares, while Richard 
Jones’ award was settled by the issue of 27,601 new shares and the balance by the payment of cash with each share being valued at £2.02 (being the mid-market closing 
price the day before vesting) in accordance with the rules of the PSP. 
¶ Subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions (details of which are set on page 46). The awards vesting during the year vested in full. Awards made during 
the last two years were granted as nil cost options rather than as conditional awards of shares as in the previous two years.
^^ The gain has been calculated using the mid-market closing share price on the date of vesting unless settlement was in cash (see above) and includes payment of a cash sum 
equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting. These dividend 
equivalent payments amounted to £41,839 and £24,311 for Stephen Wiener and Richard Jones respectively.
†† Richard Jones left the Company on 17 June 2011. In accordance with the rules of the PSP, his entitlement has been reduced to reflect the part of each three year 
performance period which he will not work. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
50
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued
(c) Cineworld Group Company Share Option Plan
Name of Director
At
31 Dec
2010
Granted
during
year
Exercised
during
year
Lapsed
during
year
At
29 Dec
2011
Exercise
price
Earliest
date of
exercise†
Expiry
date
Stephen Wiener 5,050
*
– – – 5,050 £1.98 01/07/13 30/06/20
4,801
*
– – 4,801 £2.08 29/03/14 28/02/21
Richard Jones 5,050
*
– – 5,050
^
– £1.98 01/07/13 30/06/20
4,801
*
– 4,801
^
– £2.08 29/03/14 28/02/21
* HM Revenue and Customs approved share options.
† Subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions (details of which are set on page 46).
^ Richard Jones left the Company on 17 June 2011. In accordance with the rules of the CSOP, his entitlement lapsed if the options were not exercised within six months  
of leaving.
By order of the Board
Peter Williams
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
8 March 2012 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
51
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
in respect of the Annual Report and the  
Financial Statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law 
they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have 
elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and 
parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
•	
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
•	
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
•	
for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
•	
for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject  
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements; and
•	
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent 
company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to  
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps  
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report 
and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in  
other jurisdictions.
The Directors confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as  
a whole; and
2. the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers’ Review together with the Risks and Uncertainties section, which are incorporated  
in the Directors’ Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
On behalf of the Board
Philip Bowcock
Chief Financial Officer
8 March 2012 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
52
We have audited the financial statements of Cineworld Group plc for the 52 week period ended 29 December 2011 set out on pages  
53 to 91. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law 
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework that has been applied 
in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them  
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the company and the company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 51, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion 
on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s website at  
http://www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on Financial Statements 
In our opinion: 
•	
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 29 December 
2011 and of the Group’s profit for the 52 week period then ended; 
•	
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
•	
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice;
•	
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
•	
the information given in the Directors’ Report for the 52 week period then ended for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements; and
•	
the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 40 to 44 with respect to internal control and  
risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the 
financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to Report by Exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
•	
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
•	
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement  
with the accounting records and returns; or
•	
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
•	
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or
•	
a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•	
the Directors’ statement, set out on page 39, in relation to going concern;
•	
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 40 to 44 relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
•	
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration.
Mark Summerfield (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square 
London  
E14 5GL  
 
8 March 2012
Independent Auditor’s Report 
to the Members of Cineworld Group plc Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
53
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the Period Ended 29 December 2011
Note
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
£m
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
£m
Revenue 2 348.0 342.8
Cost of sales (261.5) (259.7)
Gross profit 86.5 83.1
Other operating income 3 0.4 0.6
Administrative expenses (44.3) (46.6)
Operating profit 4 42.6 37.1
Analysed between:
Operating profit before depreciation, impairments, reversals of impairments and 
amortisation, onerous lease and other non-recurring or non-cash property charges, 
transaction and reorganisation costs, defined benefit pension scheme indexation 
gain, and refinancing costs 63.3 59.0
 – Depreciation and amortisation 4 (18.9) (17.2)
 – Onerous leases and other non-recurring or non-cash property charges 4 0.5 (1.3)
 – Impairments and reversals of impairments 4 – (3.2)
 – Transaction and reorganisation costs 4 (3.9) (0.2)
 – Defined benefit pension scheme indexation gain 18 1.7 –
 – Refinancing costs (0.1) –
Finance income 7 1.6 1.6
Finance expenses 7 (9.7) (8.2)
Refinancing interest expense (1.1) –
Total finance expense (10.8) (8.2)
Net finance costs (9.2) (6.6)
Share of loss of jointly controlled entities using equity accounting method, net of tax – (0.1)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 33.4 30.4
Tax charge on profit on ordinary activities 8 (9.5) (9.4)
Profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company 23.9 21.0
Other comprehensive income
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedge (0.6) 1.1
Foreign exchange translation gain/(loss) – 0.2
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension schemes (1.4) (0.7)
Income tax on other comprehensive income 1.0 (0.1)
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of income tax (1.0) 0.5
Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to equity holders  
of the Company 22.9 21.5
Basic earnings per share 5 16.8p 14.8p
Diluted earnings per share 5 16.7p 14.7p
The Notes on pages 57 to 91 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
54
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
at 29 December 2011
29 December 2011 30 December 2010
Note £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 10 124.3 114.2
Goodwill 11 217.1 217.1
Intangible assets 11 0.3 0.4
Investments in equity-accounted investee 12 0.8 0.8
Other receivables 15 1.4 1.4
Employee benefits 18 2.0 –
Deferred tax assets 13 12.0 14.9
Total non-current assets 357.9 348.8
Current assets
Inventories 14 2.1 2.2
Trade and other receivables 15 26.6 23.5
Cash and cash equivalents 5.5 10.6
Total current assets 34.2 36.3
Total assets 392.1 385.1
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans, borrowings and other financial liabilities 16 (6.9) (11.7)
Trade and other payables 17 (52.9) (47.5)
Current taxes payable (4.8) (7.9)
Provisions 19 (2.3) (2.3)
Total current liabilities (66.9) (69.4)
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans, borrowings and other financial liabilities 16 (100.0) (99.7)
Other payables 17 (53.3) (52.5)
Provisions 19 (9.3) (9.6)
Deferred tax liabilities 13 (2.3) (1.9)
Total non-current liabilities (164.9) (163.7)
Total liabilities (231.8) (233.1)
Net assets 160.3 152.0
Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company
Share capital 20 1.4 1.4
Share premium 171.8 171.4
Translation reserves 20 1.8 1.8
Hedging reserves 20 (3.4) (2.8)
Retained deficit (11.3) (19.8)
Total equity 160.3 152.0
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2012 and were signed on its behalf by:
Stephen Wiener Philip Bowcock
Director Director Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
55
Issued
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Translation
reserve 
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Retained
deficit
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 31 December 2009 1.4 171.4 1.6 (3.9) (26.0) 144.5
Profit for the period – – – – 21.0 21.0
Other comprehensive income
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedge – – – 1.1 – 1.1
Retranslation of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries – – 0.2 – – 0.2
Actuarial loss on defined benefit scheme – – – – (0.7) (0.7)
Tax recognised on income and expenses recognised directly  
in equity
– – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Total other comprehensive income – – 0.2 1.1 (0.8) 0.5
Contributions by and distributions to owners
Dividends paid in period – – – – (14.5) (14.5)
Movements due to share-based compensation – – – – 0.5 0.5
Balance at 30 December 2010 1.4 171.4 1.8 (2.8) (19.8) 152.0
Profit for the period – – – – 23.9 23.9
Other comprehensive income
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedge – – – (0.6) – (0.6)
Retranslation of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries – – – – – –
Actuarial loss on defined benefit scheme – – – – (1.4) (1.4)
Tax recognised on income and expenses recognised directly  
in equity
– – – – 1.0 1.0
Total other comprehensive income – – – (0.6) (0.4) (1.0)
Contributions by and distributions to owners
Dividends paid in period – – – – (15.2) (15.2)
Movements due to share-based compensation – – – – 0.2 0.2
Issue of shares – 0.4 – – – 0.4
Balance at 29 December 2011 1.4 171.8 1.8 (3.4) (11.3) 160.3
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the Period Ended 29 December 2011 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
56
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
for the Period Ended 29 December 2011
Note
52 week
period ended 
29 December
 2011
£m
52 week 
period ended 
30 December
2010
£m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit for the period 23.9 21.0
 Adjustments for:
 Financial income 7 (1.6) (1.6)
 Financial expense 7 9.7 8.2
 Refinancing cost 1.1 –
 Taxation 8 9.5 9.4
 Share of loss of equity-accounted investee – 0.1
Operating profit 42.6 37.1
 Depreciation and amortisation 4 18.9 17.2
 Non-cash property charges 4 (0.5) 1.3
 Impairments and reversals of impairments – 3.2
 Non-cash pension gain following change in indexation (1.7) –
 Surplus of pension contributions over current service cost 18 (1.6) (1.6)
 Increase in trade and other receivables (3.0) (3.5)
 Decrease/(increase) in inventories 0.2 (0.3)
 Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 2.9 (0.5)
 Decrease in provisions and employee benefit obligations (2.5) (2.2)
Cash generated from operations 55.3 50.7
Tax paid (8.3) (8.7)
Net cash flows from operating activities 47.0 42.0
Cash flows from investing activities
 Interest received 0.1 0.1
 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (25.0) (20.3)
Net cash flows from investing activities (24.9) (20.2)
Cash flows from financing activities
 Proceeds from share issue 0.4 –
 Dividends paid to shareholders (15.2) (14.5)
 Interest paid (5.0) (4.0)
 Repayment of bank loans (5.0) (9.0)
 Payment of finance lease liabilities (0.6) (0.6)
 Refinancing fees (1.8) –
Net cash from financing activities (27.2) (28.1)
 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (5.1) (6.3)
 Cash and cash equivalents at start of period 10.6 16.9
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 5.5 10.6 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
57
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements)
1. Accounting Policies 
Basis of Preparation 
Cineworld Group plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated in the UK.
The group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”) and equity 
account the Group’s interest in jointly controlled entities. The parent company financial statements present information about the 
Company as a separate entity and not about its Group. 
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the EU (Adopted IFRSs). The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in 
accordance with UK GAAP; these are presented on pages 86 to 91. 
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements, 
except as described on pages 62 and 63. 
Judgements made by the Directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial 
statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next financial period are set out below. 
Information regarding the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position is set out in the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer’s Review on pages 14 to 21 and the Risks and Uncertainties section 
on pages 24 and 25. The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the 
Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer’s Review on pages 14 to 21. In addition Note 21 to the financial statements includes the 
group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk. 
As highlighted in Note 16 to the financial statements, the Group meets its day to day working capital requirements through its bank 
facilities which consist of a five year facility of £170m, which comprises of a £70m term loan and £100m revolving facility. As at the period 
end, £65m of the term loan plus £32m of the revolving facility were drawn down. The current economic conditions create uncertainty 
particularly over (a) the level of demand for the Group’s products; and (b) the availability of bank finance in the foreseeable future. 
The current bank facility is subject to two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net 
finance charges. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show 
that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facility, including compliance with the bank facility covenants. 
Measurement Convention 
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair 
value: derivative financial instruments and financial instruments classified as fair value through the income statement or as 
available-for-sale. 
The financial information of subsidiaries is included in the consolidated financial information from the date that control commences until 
the date that control ceases. 
Basis of Consolidation 
Subsidiaries 
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the 
financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that 
are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account. 
Jointly Controlled Entities (Equity Accounted Investees) 
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement and 
requiring the venturers’ unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions. Jointly controlled entities are accounted for 
using the equity method (equity accounted investees) and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s investment includes goodwill 
identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of 
the total recognised income and expense and equity movements of equity accounted investees, from the date that joint control 
commences until the date that joint control ceases. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted 
investee, the Group’s carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the 
Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an investee. 
Transactions Eliminated on Consolidation 
Intra-Group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are eliminated 
in preparing the consolidated financial statements.  Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
58
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 
1. Accounting Policies continued
Use of non-GAAP profit and loss measures 
The Group believes that along with operating profit, the following measures:
•	
EBITDA
•	
Adjusted earnings
•	
Net debt
provide additional guidance to the statutory measures of the performance of the business during the financial period. 
EBITDA comprises of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, onerous lease and other non-recurring or non-cash 
property charges, transaction and reorganisation costs, defined benefit scheme indexation gain and refinancing costs. 
Adjusted earnings comprises profit after tax adjusted for certain non-recurring and non-cash items as set out in Note 5.
Net debt represents net borrowings including finance leases and financial liabilities offset by cash. 
Foreign Currency 
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. 
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that 
are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange 
rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined. 
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at 
foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average 
rate for the period where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. 
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations after 23 August 2004 (the date of incorporation) are taken 
directly to the translation reserve. They are released into the income statement upon disposal. 
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging 
Cash Flow Hedges and Interest Swap Policy 
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately 
in the income statement except where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends 
on the nature of the item being hedged. 
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance 
sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties. The fair value of 
forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price. 
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a 
highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in 
the hedging reserve. Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income. 
For cash flow hedges, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the 
same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss. 
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but 
the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in 
accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the 
cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income immediately. 
Non-Derivative Financial Instruments 
Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, interest 
bearing borrowings, and trade and other payables. 
Trade and Other Receivables 
Trade and other receivables were initially measured on the basis of their fair value. Subsequently they are carried at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method less any impairment losses. A bad debt allowance for receivables is established when there is 
objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an 
integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the 
statement of cash flows.  Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
59
1. Accounting Policies continued
Trade and Other Payables 
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method. 
Interest-Bearing Borrowings 
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the 
income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis. 
Property, Plant and Equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of 
property, plant and equipment. 
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance 
leases. Where land and buildings are held under finance leases the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that 
of the buildings. Leased assets acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the 
present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
Other leases are operating leases. These leased assets are not recognised in the Group’s balance sheet. 
Depreciation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income to write assets down to their residual values on a straight-line basis 
over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
•	
Land and buildings: Short leasehold properties including leasehold improvements 30 years or life of lease if shorter
•	
Plant and machinery  3 to 10 years
•	
Fixtures and fittings  4 to 10 years
No depreciation is provided on assets held for sale or on assets in the course of construction. 
Depreciation methods, residual values and the useful lives of all assets are reassessed annually. 
In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets, the Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of qualifying assets as part of the cost of that asset. The Group has capitalised borrowing costs with respect 
to the construction of new sites. 
Business Combinations 
In 2009 the Group early adopted IFRS 3 Business Combinations (2008) in accounting for business combinations. 
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill as the fair value of the consideration transferred (including the 
fair value of any previously-held equity interest in the acquire) and the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, 
less the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, all measured as of the 
acquisition date. When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in Income Statement. Transactions 
costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business 
combinations are expensed as incurred. See Note 9 for the application of the new policy to the business combination that occurred 
during the period. 
There were no acquisitions in the prior period. 
Intangible Assets and Goodwill 
Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights 
are separable.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not amortised 
but is tested annually for impairment. 
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights 
are separable. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
60
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 
1. Accounting Policies continued
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless 
such lives are indefinite. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at each 
balance sheet date. Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. The estimated useful lives are 
as follows:
•	
Brands – 10 years
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories is based on the First-In, First-Out (“FIFO”) 
principle. Cost comprises expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition, and 
net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated selling costs. 
Impairment 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets other than inventories and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to 
determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. 
For goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite useful economic life, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance 
sheet date. 
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. 
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. 
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill 
allocated to cash-generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis. A cash 
generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows 
from other assets or groups of assets. 
Calculation of Recoverable Amount 
The recoverable amount is the greater of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the 
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent 
cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
Reversals of Impairment 
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. 
In respect of other assets, an impairment is reversed when there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist as a 
result of a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount, including a change in fair value less costs to sell. 
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have 
been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. 
Employee Benefits 
Defined Contribution Pension Plans 
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred. 
Defined Benefit Pension Plans 
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of 
future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to 
determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets (at bid price) is deducted. The liability discount rate is the yield at the 
balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Group’s obligations. The 
calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. 
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the asset recognised is limited to the present value of benefits available in the 
form of any future refunds from the plan, reductions in future contributions to the plan or settlement of the plan and takes into account 
the adverse effect of any minimum funding requirements.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an 
expense in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. To 
the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income. 
The increase in the present value of the liabilities expected to arise from the employees’ services in the accounting period is charged to 
the income statement. The expected return on the schemes’ assets and the interest on the present value of the schemes’ liabilities 
during the accounting period are shown as finance income and finance expense respectively. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised 
immediately in equity.  Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
61
1. Accounting Policies continued
Share-Based Payment Transactions 
The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of options granted is recognised 
as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date using the Black-Scholes 
Model and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The amount recognised 
as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is due only to share prices not 
achieving the threshold for vesting. 
Share appreciation rights are also granted by the Company to employees. The fair value of the amount payable to the employee is 
recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities. The fair value is initially measured at grant date and spread over 
the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment. The fair value of the share appreciation rights is 
measured taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. The liability is remeasured at each 
balance sheet date and at settlement date and any changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement. 
Provisions 
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, 
and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are 
determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of 
money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. 
Own shares held by Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”) 
Transactions of the Group sponsored EBT are included in the Group financial information. In particular, the trust’s purchase of shares in 
the Company are debited directly to equity. 
Revenue 
Revenue represents the total amount receivable for goods sold, excluding sales related taxes and intra-Group transactions. All the 
Group’s revenue is received from the sale of goods.
•	
Box office revenue is recognised on the date of the showing of the film it relates to.
•	
Concessions revenue is recognised at point of sale.
•	
Advertising revenue is recognised when the advertisement is shown.
•	
Unlimited card revenue is received annually or monthly in advance. When revenue from the Unlimited card is received annually in 
advance it is recognised on a straight-line basis over the year. Monthly Unlimited card revenue is recognised in the period to which 
it relates. 
•	
Other revenue is recognised in the period to which it relates. 
Expenses 
Virtual Print Fees 
A Virtual Print Fee (“VPF”) represents a discount from the cost Cineworld pays for film rental and reflects the cost saving to the studios 
of the move to digital. A VPF is receivable the first time a film is played in a digital format on a screen rather than using 35mm film. 
A VPF is recognised on the date of the showing of the film it relates to and is included in cost of sales as a reduction of the film hire 
costs. VPFs are expected to be received for between seven and ten years, dependent upon the length of time it takes Cineworld to 
convert to digital projectors.
Operating Lease Payments 
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the term 
of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense. Where the 
Group has operating leases that contain minimum guaranteed rental uplifts over the life of the lease, the Group recognises the 
guaranteed minimum lease payment on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Finance Lease Payments 
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance 
charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance 
of the liability.
Net Financing Costs 
Net financing costs comprise interest payable, amortisation of financing costs, unwind of discount on onerous lease provisions, finance 
lease interest, net gain/loss on remeasurement of interest rate swaps, interest receivable on funds invested, foreign exchange gains 
and losses and finance costs for defined benefit pension schemes. 
Sale and Leaseback 
Where the Group enters into a sale and leaseback transaction whereby the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets concerned 
have not been substantially transferred to the lessor, any excess of sales proceeds over the previous carrying amount are deferred and 
recognised in the income statement over the lease term. At the date of the transaction the assets and the associated finance lease 
liabilities on the Group’s balance sheet are stated at the lower of fair value of the leased assets and the present value of the minimum 
lease payments.  Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
62
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 
1. Accounting Policies continued
Where the Group enters into a sale and leaseback transaction whereby the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets concerned 
have been substantially transferred to the lessor, any excess of sales proceeds over the previous carrying amount is recognised in the 
income statement on completion of the transaction, when the sale and subsequent lease back has been completed at fair value. 
Taxation 
Tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity. 
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods. 
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method, providing temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not 
provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill; the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable 
profit other than in a business combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably 
not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement 
of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the 
asset can be utilised. 
Operating Segments 
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur 
expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. An operating 
segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly by the Board of Directors to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the 
segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available. 
Significant Accounting Judgements and Estimates 
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the 
application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates. 
Estimates 
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. 
In applying the Group’s accounting policies described above the Directors have identified that the following areas are the key estimates 
that have a significant impact on the amounts recognised in the financial statements. 
Onerous Leases 
Provision is made for onerous leases where it is considered that the unavoidable costs of the lease obligations are in excess of the 
economic benefits expected to be received from operating it. The unavoidable costs of the lease reflect the least net cost of exiting from 
the contract and are measured as the lower of the net cost of continuing to operating the lease and any penalties or other costs from 
exiting it. 
When calculating the provision for onerous leases the Group is required to make certain assumptions about the future cash flows to be 
generated from that cinema site. It is also required to discount these cash flows using an appropriate discount rate. The resulting 
provision is therefore very sensitive to these assumptions however, the Directors consider that the assumptions made represent their 
best estimate of the future cash flows generated by onerous cinema sites, and that the discount rate used is appropriate given the risks 
associated with these cash flows.
Impairment of Goodwill 
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis. This requires an estimate of the value in use of the cash 
generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected 
future cash flows from the cash generating unit that holds the goodwill at a determined discount rate to calculate the present value of 
those cash flows. 
Forecasting expected cash flows, and selecting an appropriate discount rate inherently requires estimation, however management has 
also applied sensitivity analysis to the estimates which does not affect the outcome (see Note 10). 
Impairment of Tangible Fixed Assets 
The Group determines whether tangible fixed assets are impaired when indicators of impairments exist. This requires an estimate of the 
value in use of the cash generating units to which the tangible fixed assets are allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the Group 
to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash generating units that holds the tangible fixed assets at a 
determined discount rate to calculate the present value of those cash flows.  Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
63
1. Accounting Policies continued
When reviewing fixed assets for impairment, the Group is required to make certain assumptions about the future cash flows to be 
generated from the individual cinema sites. It is also required to discount these cash flows using an appropriate discount rate. The 
resulting calculation is therefore very sensitive to these assumptions. However, the Directors consider that the assumptions made 
represent their best estimate of the future cash flows generated by the cinema sites, and that the discount rate used is appropriate 
given the risks associated with these cash flows. 
Employee Post Retirement Benefit Obligations 
The Group has two defined benefit pension plans. The obligations under these plans are recognised in the balance sheet and represent 
the present value of the obligations calculated by independent actuaries, with input from management. These actuarial valuations 
include assumptions such as discount rates, return on assets, salary progression and mortality rates. These assumptions vary from 
time to time according to prevailing economic and social conditions. Details of the assumptions used are provided in Note 18. 
Management consider that the assumptions used are the most appropriate but recognise that the resulting pension liability is very 
sensitive to these assumptions. 
Deferred Tax Assets 
The Group recognises deferred tax assets for temporary differences arising at the balance sheet date. The Group applies estimates 
when calculating the carrying value of these assets and considering whether future taxable profits are sufficient to ensure 
their recoverability. 
Judgements 
In addition, the Directors are required to make certain judgements when applying the Group’s accounting policies described above.  
The key judgements are: 
Finance and Operating Leases 
When the Group enters into a new lease it is required to consider whether it bears substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset. 
The Group considers the requirements of IAS 17 “Leases” when determining whether it has an operating or finance lease, and in most 
cases the outcome is clear. 
Hedging Arrangements 
The Group enters into interest rate swaps to fix a portion of its exposure to variable interest rates on its loan arrangements. In order to 
apply the hedge accounting provisions of IAS 39 “Financial Instruments”, the Group must consider the effectiveness of its hedging 
arrangements when deciding whether they can hedge account. 
New Standards and Interpretations 
The Directors considered the impact of other new and revised accounting standards, interpretations or amendments on the Group that 
are currently endorsed but not yet effective. It was concluded that none were relevant to the Group’s results. 
2. Operating Segments 
Determination and presentation of operating segments:
Further to the adoption of IFRS 8, the Group has determined that it has one operating segment and therefore one reportable segment 
being cinema operations. All the disclosable operating segment information required by IFRS8 can be found in the primary statements.
Revenue by destination and by origin from countries other than the UK in all financial periods was not material. Likewise non-current 
assets located in other countries other than the UK in all financial periods are not material. 
Entity Wide Disclosures:
Revenue by product and service provided
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
Total 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
30 December 
2010 
Total 
£m
Box office 242.1 235.8
Retail 81.6 81.6
Other 24.3 25.4
Total revenue 348.0 342.8
All revenue streams are driven by admissions. The Group’s internal management reporting and operations are not separated into 
these categories. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
64
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 
3. Other Operating Income
52 week
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£m
52 week
period ended 
30 December 
2010 
£m
Rental income 0.4 0.6
0.4 0.6
4. Operating Profit 
Included in operating profit for the period are the following:
52 week
period ended
29 December 
2011 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
30 December 
2010 
£m
Depreciation 18.8
*
17.0
*
Impairments – 4.5
*
Reversals of impairments – (1.3)
*
Amortisation of intangibles (Note 11) 0.1
*
0.2
*
Onerous lease and other non-recurring or non-cash property (credits)/charges (0.5) 1.3
†
Transaction and reorganisation costs 3.9 0.2
*
Hire of other assets – operating leases 48.8 46.5
§
* Included in administrative expenses.
† £0.5m (2010: £0.8m) is included in administrative costs. The balance is included in cost of sales.
§ £0.7m (2009: £0.9m) is included in administrative costs. The balance is included in cost of sales.
See Note 10 for details of impairments and impairment reversals. 
In 2011 there was a £0.2m dilapidations credit (2010: charge of £0.8m), a net £0.3m credit on onerous leases following changes in 
trading assumptions (2010: £nil) and non-cash property charges of £nil (2010: charge of £0.5m).
In 2011, transaction costs relate to an attempted acquisition and the majority of reorganisation costs relate to the digital conversion 
and harmonising audio/visual work across the whole circuit, including redundancy costs. In 2010, transaction and reorganisation costs 
relate to professional fees incurred in connection with the O2 acquisition. 
The total remuneration of the Group auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and its affiliates for the services to the Group is analysed below.
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
£000
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
£000
Auditors’ remuneration:
Group – audit 207 196
Company – audit 6 5
Amounts received by auditors and their associates in respect of:
– Audit of financial statements pursuant to legislation 213 201
– Audit related regulatory reporting 54 41
267 242
– Other services relating to taxation 245 226
– Valuation and actuarial services 11 34
– Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into by or on behalf of the  
Company or the Group 163 86
– Other 12 7 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
65
5. Earnings Per Share 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, after excluding the weighted average number of non-vested ordinary shares 
held by the employee ownership trust. Adjusted pro-forma earnings per share is calculated in the same way except that the profit for the 
period attributable to ordinary shareholders is adjusted by adding back the amortisation of intangible assets, the cost of share-based 
payments, any other one-off income or expense and applying a tax charge at the statutory rate, to the adjusted profit. 
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, after excluding the weighted average number of non-vested ordinary shares 
held by the employee share ownership trust and after adjusting for the effects of dilutive options.
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
£m
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
£m
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 23.9 21.0
Adjustments:
 Amortisation of intangible assets 0.1 0.2
 Share-based payments 0.6 0.5
 Transaction and reorganisation costs 3.9 0.2
 Impairments and reversals of impairments – 3.2
 Impact of straight-lining of operating leases – 0.5
 Dilapidations (credit)/costs (0.2) 0.8
 Onerous lease credit (0.3) –
 Defined benefit scheme indexation gain (1.7) –
 Refinancing expenses 1.2 –
Adjusted earnings 27.5 26.4
 Add back tax charge 9.5 9.4
Adjusted pro-forma profit before tax 37.0 35.8
 Less tax at statutory rate (26%/28%) (9.6) (10.0)
Adjusted pro-forma profit after tax 27.4 25.8
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
Number of
shares (m)
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
Number of
shares (m)
Weighted average number of shares in issue 142.0 141.7
Basic and adjusted earnings per share denominator 142.0 141.7
Dilutive options 0.9 1.1
Diluted earnings per share denominator 142.9 142.8
Shares in issue at period end 142.3 141.7
Pence Pence
Basic earnings per share 16.8 14.8
Diluted earnings per share 16.7 14.7
Adjusted pro-forma basic earnings per share 19.3 18.2
Adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share 19.2 18.1 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
66
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 
6. Staff Numbers and Costs
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the period, analysed by category, was as follows:
Number of staff
2011 2010
Head office 155 138
Cinemas 4,517 4,487
4,672 4,625
Included in the average number of persons employed by the Group are part-time employees. No distinction is made between full-time 
and part-time employees in the analysis above.
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
£m
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
£m
Wages and salaries 48.2 48.1
Social security costs 3.1 3.3
Other pension costs – Defined contribution 0.4 0.4
Share-based payments (see Note 18) 0.6 0.5
52.3 52.3
See pages 45 to 50 for Directors’ remuneration.
7 . Finance Income and Expense
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
£m
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
£m
Interest income 0.1 0.3
Expected return on defined benefit pension plan assets (Note 18) 1.5 1.3
Finance income 1.6 1.6
Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 5.3 4.1
Amortisation of financing costs 0.7 0.4
Unwind of discount on onerous lease provision 1.2 1.0
Finance cost for defined benefit pension scheme (Note 18) 1.4 1.5
Interest charge as a result of change in discount rate relating to onerous lease provisions 0.6 0.8
Other financial costs 0.5 0.4
Finance expense 9.7 8.2
Refinancing expense 1.1 –
Total financial expense 10.8 8.2
Recognised within other comprehensive income:
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
£m
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
£m
Movement in fair value of interest rate swap (0.6) 1.1
Foreign exchange translation gain – 0.2
Finance income (0.6) 1.3 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
67
8. Taxation 
Recognised in the Income Statement
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
£m
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
£m
Current tax expense
Current year 8.5 8.3
Adjustments in respect of prior years (3.3) (0.6)
Total current tax expense 5.2 7.7
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 4.3 1.7
Adjustments in respect of prior years – –
Total tax charge in income statement 9.5 9.4
Reconciliation of Effective Tax Rate
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
£m
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
£m
Profit before tax 33.4 30.4
Tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 26.5% (2010: 28%) 8.9 8.5
Differences in overseas tax rates (0.1) (0.1)
Permanently disallowed depreciation 1.0 1.1
Other permanent differences 2.4 –
Adjustments in respect of prior years (3.3) (0.6)
Effect of change in statutory rate to 25% (2010: 27%) on deferred tax 0.6 0.5
Total tax charge in income statement 9.5 9.4
During the period there was a deferred tax credit of £1.0m (2010: charge of £0.1m) recognised directly in equity in connection with the 
actuarial loss on the defined benefit scheme and the increase in the fair value of the cash flow hedge on part of the Group’s bank loans, 
together with the impact of those items of the change in statutory rate; see Note 13. 
Factors that may affect future tax charges 
As at 29 December 2011 the Group had potential tax assets relating to the following: 
•	
other non-trading losses of approximately £2.6m (2010: £2.6m)
•	
capital losses of approximately £7.6m (2010: £7.6m)
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of non-trading and capital losses carried forward as it is unclear whether 
non-trading income or capital gains against which the losses may be offset will arise in the Group for the foreseeable future. The net tax 
benefit of utilising any of the above losses is expected to amount to approximately 25% of the losses utilised. 
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures where the Group controls the timing of remittance 
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
The emergency budget announced a phased reduction in the main UK corporation tax rate from 28% to 23% by April 2014, with the first 
1% reduction taking effect from 1 April 2011 (and substantively enacted on 20 July 2010), followed by the subsequent reduction to 26% 
from 1 April 2011 (substantively enacted on 29 March 2011) and a further reduction to 25% from 1 April 2012 (substantively enacted on 
5 July 2011). The budget also set out various other proposed corporation tax changes, including changes in capital allowance rates. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
68
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 
9. Purchase of Trade and Assets 
On 25 June 2010 Cineworld purchased the trade and assets (largely fixtures, fittings, plant and machinery) of the cinema complex 
located within The O2 in Greenwich, London, for £4.0m satisfied in cash. As part of the agreement Cineworld also signed a 25 year 
lease on the cinema site at a market rate.
The acquisitions had the following effect on the Company’s assets and liabilities.
Carrying
amounts
£m
Fair value
adjustments
£m
Fair values
on acquisition
£m
Acquiree’s net assets at the acquisition date:
Fixtures, fittings, plant and equipment 8.0 (5.0) 3.0
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 3.0
Goodwill on acquisition 1.0
Consideration paid, satisfied in cash 4.0
Net cash outflow 4.0
The Goodwill of £1.0m represents the opportunity for synergies from the combined operations as well as the employees transferred in 
connection with the business.
Transaction costs of £0.2m were expensed in 2010. The Group assessed the fair value of the assets acquired at £3.0m based on 
appropriate valuation methodology. 
Revenue of £3.0m relating to the acquiree was included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the prior year 
reporting period. If the acquisition had occurred at the beginning of the prior year financial period approximately £4.1m revenue would 
relate to the acquiree.
10. Property, Plant and Equipment 
Land and
buildings
£m
Plant and
machinery
£m
Fixtures and
fittings
£m
Assets in the
course of
construction
£m
Total
£m
Cost
Balance at 31 December 2009 88.5 38.2 46.8 – 173.5
Additions 2.1 10.6 7.3 – 20.0
Disposals – (2.6) (5.0) – (7.6)
Transfers – – – – –
Effects of movement in foreign exchange (0.2) (0.1) (0.5) – (0.8)
Balance at 30 December 2010 90.4 46.1 48.6 – 185.1
Additions 0.8 16.6 8.9 2.6 28.9
Disposals – (7.2) (10.8) – (18.0)
Transfers 2.6 – – (2.6) –
Effects of movement in foreign exchange (0.1) – (0.2) – (0.3)
Balance at 29 December 2011 93.7 55.5 46.5 – 195.7
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
Balance at 31 December 2009 13.6 17.6 27.7 – 58.9
Charge for the period 5.0 5.8 6.2 – 17.0
Disposals – (2.6) (5.0) – (7.6)
Effects of movement in foreign exchange (0.1) (0.1) (0.4) – (0.6)
Impairments 3.7 0.6 0.2 – 4.5
Reversal of impairments (1.3) – – – (1.3)
Balance at 30 December 2010 20.9 21.3 28.7 – 70.9
Charge for the period 5.0 6.4 7.4 – 18.8
Disposals – (7.2) (10.8) – (18.0)
Effects of movement in foreign exchange (0.1) – (0.2) – (0.3)
Balance at 29 December 2011 25.8 20.5 25.1 – 71.4
Net book value
At 31 December 2009 74.9 20.6 19.1 – 114.6
At 30 December 2010 69.5 24.8 19.9 – 114.2
At 29 December 2011 67.9 35.0 21.4 – 124.3 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
69
10. Property, Plant and Equipment continued
Land and Buildings are made up of short leasehold properties encompassing leasehold improvements.
Of the £28.3m (2010: £20m) of additions during the year, £14.1m (2010: £10.5m) relates to the acquisition and installation of digital 
projection equipment.
The net book value of assets held under a finance lease is:
29 December
2011
£m
30 December
2010
£m
The net book value of assets held under finance leases comprised:
Opening net book value 4.9 5.1
Depreciation charge (0.2) (0.2)
Closing net book value 4.7 4.9
The above assets held under finance leases relate to a finance lease held on one cinema site which is included within land and buildings.
Interest of £40,000 (2010: £nil) has been capitalised during the period which relates to the construction of a new site.
With respect to the tangible fixed asset disposals, no proceeds were receivable in the period. 
Impairment 
The Group considers each Cinema site to be a cash generating unit (“CGU”) and each CGU is reviewed annually for indicators of 
impairment. In assessing whether an asset has been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU is compared to its recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. In the absence of any information about the 
fair value of a CGU, the recoverable amount is deemed to be its value in use. The Group estimates value in use using a discounted cash 
flow model, which applies a pre-tax discount rate of 9.0% (2010: 9.5%). The future cash flows are based on financial budgets approved 
by management covering a 1 year period. Cash flows beyond the 1st period have been extrapolated using the assumptions used in the 
impairment model (see Note 11). The £4.5m impairment loss in the prior reporting period was caused by trading not reaching 
expectations for the foreseeable future in relation to two cinema sites. No indicators of impairment were identified in the current year.
Impairment Reversals 
In 2010, following an improvement in trading performance and an increase in the estimated future cash flows of previously impaired 
sites, reversals of £1.3m were recognised at three sites. 
Sensitivity to Changes in Assumptions 
The level of impairment is predominantly dependent upon judgements used in arriving at future growth rates and the discount rate 
applied to cash flow projections. The impact on the impairment charge of applying different assumptions to the growth rates used in the 
five year business plan and in the discount rates would be as follows:
£m
Impairment if business plan growth rates were reduced by 1% for first five years –
Impairment if discount rate was increased by 1% – Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
70
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 
11. Intangible Assets
Goodwill
£m
Brand
£m
Total
£m
Cost
Balance at 31 December 2009 223.8 1.2 225.0
Additions 1.0 – 1.0
Balance at 30 December 2010 224.8 1.2 226.0
Balance at 29 December 2011 224.8 1.2 226.0
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
Balance at 31 December 2009 7.7 0.6 8.3
Amortisation – 0.2 0.2
Balance at 30 December 2010 7.7 0.8 8.5
Amortisation – 0.1 0.1
Balance at 29 December 2011 7.7 0.9 8.6
Net book value
At 31 December 2009 216.1 0.6 216.7
At 30 December 2010 217.1 0.4 217.5
At 29 December 2011 217.1 0.3 217.4
Impairment Testing 
Each individual cinema is considered to be a CGU. However, for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, it is acceptable under 
IAS 36 to group CGUs. Furthermore, the ex-Cine-UK and ex-UGC (including Dublin) businesses are now fully integrated, meaning that 
goodwill is now monitored on a Group wide level. The following assumptions have been applied to both individual CGUs when testing for 
impairment of PPE and groups of CGUs for goodwill impairment testing. 
The recoverable amount of Cineworld has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That calculation uses cash flow 
projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a one-year period. Cash flows beyond the first year period 
have been extrapolated using the below assumptions. This growth rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the 
market in which Cineworld operates.
The key assumptions behind the impairment review are as follows: 
2011 forecast earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortisation (“EBITDA”) was used as the basis of the future cash flow 
calculation. This is adjusted to add back rent (EBITDAR) and essential capex on existing sites. In line with long-term industry growth 
rates, EBITDAR is assumed to grow at 3% per annum. 
Property costs are factored into the model, but are assumed to grow at 2.5% per annum over the life of the model. Cash flows are not 
assumed in perpetuity. 
The Group has discounted forecast flows using a pre-tax discount rate of 9.0% (2010: 9.5%) being a market participant’s discount rate. 
This is considered to reflect the risks associated with the relevant cash flows. 
Management have sensitised the key assumptions including the discount rate and under base case and sensitised case no indicators of 
impairment exist. Management believes that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which Cineworld’s recoverable 
amount is based would not cause Cineworld’s carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount. 
Amortisation Charge 
The amortisation of intangible assets is recognised in the following line items in the income statement:
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
£m
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
£m
Administrative expenses 0.1 0.2 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
71
12. Investment in Equity Accounted Investee
The Group has the following investment in a jointly controlled entity:
Country of
Incorporation
Class of
shares held Ownership
Digital Cinema Media Limited England and Wales Ordinary 50%
On 8 February 2008 the Group jointly formed Digital Cinema Media Limited (“DCM”) with Odeon Cinemas Holdings Limited (“Odeon”).  
On 10 July 2008 DCM acquired certain trade and assets (substantially employees, computer systems, leasehold office and existing 
contracts) from Carlton Screen Advertising Limited, the Group’s former advertising supplier. 
Under the terms of the shareholder agreement between the Group and Odeon, key business decisions in respect of DCM require the 
unanimous approval of the shareholders. As a consequence, the Directors of the Group do not have total management control of DCM, 
therefore the Group’s investment is accounted for as a joint venture.
29 December
2011
£m
30 December
2010
£m
Cost 0.9 0.9
Share of post acquisition reserves (0.1) –
0.8 0.9
Share of post tax profit/(loss) – (0.1)
Carrying value 0.8 0.8
Summary aggregated financial information on jointly controlled entities – 100%:
29 December
2011
£m
30 December
2010
£m
Current assets 16.3 13.5
Non-current assets 1.7 1.8
Current liabilities (17.8) (13.2)
Non-current liabilities (0.4) (2.3)
Net (liabilities)/assets (0.2) (0.2)
Income 52.1 44.5
Expenses (52.0) (44.7)
Net profit/( loss) 0.1 (0.2)
Screen advertising represents an important part of the Group’s revenue streams and the joint venture partners recognise the importance 
of protecting this revenue stream. The joint venture partners are able to reduce their share of the advertising income if deemed necessary 
to support DCM. 
13. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
29 December
2011
£m
30 December
2010
£m
29 December
2011
£m
30 December
2010
£m
29 December
2011
£m
30 December
2010
£m
Property, plant and equipment 1.4 3.9 (2.3) (2.5) (0.9) 1.4
Intangible assets – – (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1)
Employee benefits 0.3 0.3 (0.5) – (0.2) 0.3
Reverse premiums 2.5 2.8 – – 2.5 2.8
Effect of straight lining operating lease 
accruals 7.3 7.9 – – 7.3 7.9
Interest rate swap 1.1 0.7 – – 1.1 0.7
Tax assets/(liabilities) 12.6 15.6 (2.9) (2.6) 9.7 13.0
Set off tax (0.6) (0.7) 0.6 0.7 – –
Net tax assets/(liabilities) 12.0 14.9 (2.3) (1.9) 9.7 13.0
See Note 8 for details of unrecognised tax assets.  Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
72
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 
13. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities continued
Deferred taxation provided for in the financial statements at the period end represents provision at 25% (2010: 27%) on the above 
items. The effect of the change in statutory rate from 27% to 25% resulted in a £0.7m charge recognised in income (2010: 28% to  
27% £0.5m). In line with government announcements (see Note 8), a further reduction in the net deferred asset is expected. 
A review of the deferred tax will be performed at each balance date and adjustments made in the event of a change in any 
key assumptions.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
30 December
2010
£m
Recognised
in income
£m
Recognised
in equity
£m
29 December
2011
£m
Property, plant and equipment 1.4 (2.3) – (0.9)
Intangible assets (0.1) – – (0.1)
Employee benefits 0.3 (0.8) 0.3 (0.2)
Reverse premiums 2.8 (0.3) – 2.5
Effect of straight lining operating lease accruals 7.9 (0.6) – 7.3
Interest rate swap 0.7 (0.3) 0.7 1.1
Tax assets/(liabilities) 13.0 (4.3) 1.0 9.7
31 December
2009
£m
Recognised
in income
£m
Recognised
in equity
£m
31 December
2010
£m
Property, plant and equipment 2.6 (1.2) – 1.4
Intangible assets (0.2) 0.1 – (0.1)
Employee benefits 0.4 (0.3) 0.2 0.3
Reverse premiums 2.9 (0.1) – 2.8
Effect of straight lining operating lease accruals 8.1 (0.2) – 7.9
Interest rate swap 1.0 – (0.3) 0.7
Tax assets/(liabilities) 14.8 (1.7) (0.1) 13.0
14. Inventories
29 December
2011
£m
30 December
2010
£m
Goods for resale 2.1 2.2
2.1 2.2
Goods for resale recognised in cost of sales in the period amounted to £17.6m (2010: £19.1m).
15. Trade and Other Receivables
Current
29 December
2011
£m
30 December
2010
£m
Trade receivables 1.9 2.4
Other receivables 0.1 1.2
Prepayments and accrued income 24.6 19.9
26.6 23.5
Non-current
29 December
2011
£m
30 December
2010
£m
Land lease premiums 0.9 0.9
Loan to jointly controlled entity 0.5 0.5
1.4 1.4 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
73
16. Interest-Bearing Loans and Borrowings and Other Financial Liabilities
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. 
29 December
2011
£m
30 December
2010
£m
Non-current liabilities
Interest rate swaps 2.8 0.5
Unsecured bank loan, less issue costs of debt to be amortised 91.1 93.0
Liabilities under finance leases 6.1 6.2
100.0 99.7
Current liabilities
Interest rate swaps 1.7 2.3
Unsecured bank loans, less issue costs of debt to be amortised 4.6 8.8
Liabilities under finance leases 0.6 0.6
6.9 11.7
The terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows:
29 December 2011 30 December 2010
Currency
Nominal
interest
rate
Year of
maturity
Face
value
£m
Carrying
amount
£m
Nominal
interest
rate
Year of
maturity
Face
value
£m
Carrying
amount
£m
Unsecured bank loan GBP LIBOR +
1.95%
2016 97.0 95.7 LIBOR +
0.7%
2012 102.0 101.8
Finance lease liability GBP 7.2% 2029 6.7 6.7 7.2% 2029 6.8 6.8
Total interest  
bearing liabilities 103.7 102.4 108.8 108.6
See Note 21 for bank loan maturity analysis. 
Finance Lease Liabilities 
The maturity of obligations under finance leases is as follows:
29 December
2011
£m
30 December
2010
£m
Within one year 0.6 0.6
Between one and two years 0.6 0.6
In the second to fifth years 1.9 1.8
Over five years 9.1 9.8
12.2 12.8
Less future finance charges (5.5) (6.0)
6.7 6.8
Analysis of net debt
Cash at bank
and in hand
£m
Bank
loans
£m
Finance
leases
£m
Interest
rate swap
£m
Net debt
£m
At 31 December 2009 16.9 (110.4) (6.9) (3.9) (104.3)
Cash flows (6.3) 9.0 0.6 – 3.3
Non-cash movement – (0.4) (0.5) 1.1 0.2
At 30 December 2010 10.6 (101.8) (6.8) (2.8) (100.8)
Cash flows (5.1) 6.8 0.6 – 2.3
Non-cash movement – (0.7) (0.5) (1.7) (2.9)
At 29 December 2011 5.5 (95.7) (6.7) (4.5) (101.4)
The non-cash movements relating to bank loans represent the amortisation of debt issuance costs. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
74
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 
17 . Trade and Other Payables
29 December
2011
£m
30 December
2010
£m
Current
Trade payables 15.2 12.3
Other payables 5.0 5.5
Accruals and deferred income 32.7 29.7
52.9 47.5
29 December
2011
£m
30 December
2010
£m
Non-current
Accruals and deferred income 53.3 52.5
Non-current accruals and deferred income include reverse-lease premiums and an accrual for straight lining operating leases. 
18. Employee Benefits 
Pension Plans
The Group operates two externally funded defined benefit pension schemes, one in the United Kingdom, the MGM Pension Scheme, and 
one in Ireland, the Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan. 
MGM Scheme 
The Scheme is a funded Scheme of the defined benefit type, providing retirement benefits based on final salary. The Scheme closed to 
future accrual from 31 May 2009, though the link to final pay at retirement was retained. 
The valuation used for IAS19 disclosures has been based on a full assessment of the liabilities of the Scheme as at 5 April 2009. The 
present values of the defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost and any past service costs were measured using the 
projected unit credit method. 
Actuarial gains and losses have been recognised in the period in which they occur, (but outside the Income Statement), through Other 
Comprehensive Income. 
Following the UK Government’s announcement in summer 2010, and following the consultation with the members in October 2011, the 
inflation index to be used to derive statutory pension increases has been changed from the Retail Prices Index (“RPI”) to the Consumer 
Prices Index (“CPI”). Due to differences between the indices, including both constituents and construction, CPI is expected to be less 
than RPI over the long-term which means that the Scheme liabilities will reduce. The £1.7m reduction in the value placed on the 
Scheme’s liability is recognised as a negative past service cost in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. This is greater than the 
estimate of £0.9m mentioned in the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts, due to subsequent legal advice that additional tranches of 
pension would qualify for the change in indexation.
The Company made contributions of £1.6m during 2011 (2010: £1.6m).
Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan 
The Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan is closed to new entrants and therefore the current service cost is £nil. The 
trustees of the Adelphi-Carlton Contributory Pension Plan have not agreed that any surplus on the plan can be refunded to the Company. 
Accordingly the surplus has not been recognised. The Scheme has a surplus of £0.6m as at 29 December 2011 (2010: £0.6m). 
Actuaries for Adelphi-Carlton Limited carried out the last actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 1 April 2007. Based on this assessment, 
the actuarial value of the assets of the scheme was more than sufficient to cover 100% of the benefits that had accrued to members.  
In view of this, a suspension of Company contributions was in force from 1 April 2001 to 29 December 2011. Total contributions for the 
52 weeks ended 30 December 2010 and 52 weeks ended 29 December 2011 were £nil and £nil, respectively. 
The net surplus/(deficit) in the pension scheme is:
29 December
2011
£m
30 December
2010
£m
MGM Pension scheme 2.0 –
Net surplus/(deficit) 2.0 – Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
75
18. Employee Benefits continued
MGM Pension Scheme
29 December
2011
£m
30 December
2010
£m
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (28.4) (28.3)
Fair value of plan assets 30.4 28.3
Surplus in scheme 2.0 –
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation:
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
£m
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
£m
At beginning of period (28.3) (26.6)
Interest cost (1.4) (1.5)
Current service cost – –
Contributions by scheme participants – –
Actuarial loss (1.7) (1.4)
Benefits paid 1.3 1.2
Past service cost (RPI to CPI change) 1.7 –
At end of period (28.4) (28.3)
Movements in fair value of plan assets:
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
£m
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
£m
At start of period 28.3 25.9
Expected return on plan assets 1.5 1.3
Actuarial gains 0.3 0.7
Contributions by employer 1.6 1.6
Contributions by members – –
Benefits paid (1.3) (1.2)
At end of period 30.4 28.3
Income/(expense) recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income:
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
£m
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
£m
Interest on defined benefit pension plan obligation (1.4) (1.5)
Expected return on defined benefit pension plan assets 1.5 1.3
Past service cost (RPI to CPI change) 1.7 –
Total 1.8 (0.2)
The income/(expense) is recognised in the following line items in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income:
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
£m
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
£m
Financial expenses (1.4) (1.5)
Financial income 1.5 1.3
Administrative expenses 1.7 –
Total 1.8 (0.2) Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
76
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 
18. Employee Benefits continued
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income:
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
£m
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
£m
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the period (1.4) (0.7)
Cumulative amount at start of period 0.3 1.0
Cumulative amount at end of period (1.1) 0.3
The fair value of the plan assets and the return on those assets were as follows:
Long-term
rate of return
expected at
29 December
2011
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
£m
Long-term
rate of return
expected at
30 December
2010
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
£m
Equities 8.00% 14.0 7.70% 13.5
Property 7.00% 0.4 7.20% 0.4
Index linked bonds 3.00% 7.7 4.00% 7.1
Corporate bonds 4.50% 6.8 5.20% 6.0
Other 1.80% 1.5 1.40% 1.3
30.4 28.3
Cineworld Cinemas Limited employs a building block approach in determining the long-term rate of return on pension plan assets. 
Historical markets are studied and assets with higher volatility are assumed to generate higher returns consistent with widely accepted 
capital market principles. The assumed long-term rate of return on each asset class is set out within this note. The overall expected rate 
of return on assets is then derived by aggregating the expected return for each asset class over the actual asset allocation for the 
Scheme at the accounting date.
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
£m
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
£m
Expected return on scheme assets 1.5 1.3
Actuarial gains 0.3 0.7
Actual return on plan assets 1.8 2.0
Principal actuarial assumptions (expressed as weighted averages):
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
%
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
%
RPI Inflation 3.4 3.8
CPI Inflation 2.4 2.9
Rate of general long-term increase in salaries 4.4 4.8
Rate of increase to pensions in payment 2.0–3.4 2.6–3.9
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 4.8 5.4
Expected rate of return on assets 5.6 6.0
The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables which allow for future mortality improvements. The assumptions are 
that a member who retires in 2031 at age 65 will live on average for a further 24.5 years after retirement if they are male and for a 
further 26.4 years after retirement if they are female.  Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
77
18. Employee Benefits continued
History of Plans 
The history of the plans for the current and prior periods is as follows: 
Balance Sheet 
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
£m
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
£m
53 week
period ended
31 December
2009
£m
52 week
period ended
25 December
2008
£m
52 week
period ended
27 December
2007
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligation (28.4) (28.3) (26.6) (24.4) (26.6)
Fair value of plan assets 30.4 28.3 25.9 21.8 24.2
Surplus/(deficit) 2.0 – (0.7) (2.6) (2.4)
Experience Adjustments
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
£m
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
£m
53 week
period ended
31 December
2009
£m
52 week
period ended
25 December
2008
£m
52 week
period ended
27 December
2007
£m
Experience gain/(loss) on plan assets 0.3 0.7 2.5 (4.4) 0.3
Experience gain/(loss) on plan liabilities – 0.2 2.7 – –
The Group expects to contribute approximately £1.6m to its defined benefit plans in the next financial period. 
Defined Contribution Plans 
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans. 
The total expense relating to these plans in the current year was £0.4m (2010: £0.4m) 
Share-Based Payments 
As at 29 December 2011 there were three types of share option and share schemes: the Employee Sharesave Scheme, the Cineworld 
Group Performance Share Plan and the Company Share Option Plan.
Grants were made under the sharesave scheme in 2007 and 2008. 
The fair value is measured at the grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to 
the options. 
Period ended 30 December 2010 
A charge of £30,000 was recorded in the income statement for the period in respect of both the 2007 and 2008 Sharesave 
scheme grants. 
Period ended 29 December 2011 
A charge of £28,000 was recorded in the income statement for the period in respect of the 2008 Sharesave scheme grant. 
Awards over 30,496 shares lapsed in 2011.
The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) 
Period ended 30 December 2010 
Under the PSP, awards of conditional shares or nil cost options can be made that vest or become exercisable after three years subject  
to continued employment and generally the achievement of specified performance conditions as follows: 
•	
30% of the shares under the award will vest if the average annual growth in earnings per share (“EPS”) (calculated by comparing the 
EPS for the financial year ended 31 December 2009 and the EPS for the financial year ending 27 December 2012) is not less 
than 3.2%;
•	
100% of the shares under the Award will vest if the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial 
year ended 31 December 2009 and the EPS for the financial year ending 27 December 2012) is at least 9.2%;
•	
Where the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 31 December 2009 and the 
EPS for the financial year ending 27 December 2012) is between the two limits above, the Award shall vest on a straight-line basis 
between 30% and 100%. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
78
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 
18. Employee Benefits continued
Grants were made under the PSP scheme on 30 March 2010. Under these grants, awards over 252,654 shares were made in total. 
Awards over 173,832 shares were made with the same performance conditions as the 2009 grant, but with reference to the financial 
years 30 December 2010 to 26 December 2013. Further awards over 78,822 shares were made which will vest after three years 
subject to continued employment only, with no specified performance conditions attached. 
EPS for the 2010 grant was defined as adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the 
financial statements.
Period ended 29 December 2011 
Further grants were made under the PSP scheme on 29 March 2011. Under these grants, awards over 395,961 shares were made in 
total. Awards over 258,398 shares were made with the same performance conditions as the 2010 grant, but with reference to the 
financial years 30 December 2010 to 26 December 2013. Further awards over 137,563 shares were made which will vest after three 
years subject to continued employment only, with no specified performance conditions attached. 
Awards over 167,350 shares lapsed during 2011.
EPS for the 2011 grant was defined as adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the 
financial statements.
A charge of £559,000 was recorded in the income statement in respect of the 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 PSP schemes. 
The Company Share Option Plan (“CSOP”) 
Period ended 30 December 2010 
The first two grants under the CSOP took place on 1 July 2010. Under these grants awards over 75,750 shares were made in total. 
Awards over 10,100 shares were made with the same conditions as the 2010 PSP grant. Awards over 65,650 shares were made with no 
performance conditions attached. 
EPS for the 2010 grant was defined as adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the 
financial statements. 
The shares were valued using the Black-Scholes Model. A charge of £6,000 was recorded in the income statement in respect of shares 
granted under the CSOP.
Period ended 29 December 2011
Further grants were made under the CSOP on 29 March 2011. Under these grants awards over 76,816 shares were made in total. 
Awards over 9,602 shares were made with the same conditions as the 2011 PSP grant. Awards over 67,214 were made with no 
performance conditions attached.
Awards over 9,851 shares lapsed during 2011.
EPS for the 2011 grant was defined as adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the 
financial statements. 
A charge of £19,000 was recorded in the income statement in respect of the 2010 and 2011 CSOP schemes.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options in equity settled schemes are as follows: 
Weighted average
exercise price
2011 (£)
Equity settled
Number
of options
2011
Equity settled
Weighted average
exercise price
2010 (£)
Equity settled
Number
of options
2010
Equity settled
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 0.40 1,605,515 0.44 1,378,886
Exercised in shares during the year 0.62 (607,096) 1.63 (20,088)
Settled in cash during the year 0.00 (169,856) – –
Granted during the year 0.35 472,777 0.46 328,404
Lapsed during the year 0.27 (207,697) 1.13 (81,687)
Outstanding at the end of the year 0.33 1,093,643 0.40 1,605,515
Exercisable at the end of the year 0.93 68,946 1.63 32,880
The average share price during 2011 was £2.00 (2010: £1.92). Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
79
18. Employee Benefits continued
Assumptions relating to grants of share options in 2010 were:
Scheme name Date of grant
Share price
at grant (£)
Exercise
price (£)
Expected
volatility (%)
Expected
life (years)
Dividend
yield (%)
Risk free
rate (%)
Fair
value (£)
PSP 30 March 2010 1.85 nil 49 3.0 5.5 0.76 1.52
CSOP 1 July 2010 1.98 1.98 49 3–10 years 5.5 0.76 0.44
Assumptions relating to grants of share options in 2011 were:
Scheme name Date of grant
Share price
at grant (£)
Exercise
price (£)
Expected
volatility (%)
Expected
life (years)
Dividend
yield (%)
Risk free
rate (%)
Fair
value (£)
PSP 29 March 2011 2.08 nil 46 3.0 5.3 1.08 1.77
CSOP 29 March 2011 2.08 2.08 46 3–10 years 5.3 1.08 0.47
The total expenses recognised for the period arising from share-based payments are as follows:
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
£m
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
£m
Share-based payments expenses 0.6 0.5
19. Provisions
Property
provisions
£m
Reorganisation
provision
Total
provisions
£m
Balance at 30 December 2010 11.9 – 11.9
Non-current 9.6 – 9.6
Current 2.3 – 2.3
Total 11.9 – 11.9
Balance at 30 December 2010 11.9 – 11.9
Provisions (released)/made during the period (1.0) 1.4 0.4
Effect of change in discount rate during the period 0.6 – 0.6
Utilised against rent during the period (2.5) – (2.5)
Unwound against interest during the period 1.2 – 1.2
Balance at 29 December 2011 10.2 1.4 11.6
Current 0.9 1.4 2.3
Non-current 9.3 – 9.3
Total 10.2 1.4 11.6
Property provisions relate to onerous leases, dilapidations and other property liabilities. The majority of the property provision relates to 
onerous leases being the rent payable on particular cinema sites that is in excess of the economic benefits expected to be derived from 
their operation on a discounted basis. The remaining provision will be utilised over the period to the next rent review date or the 
remaining lease life depending on the term of the lease. This is between one and thirty years (see further analysis below). The discount 
rate used in the period was 9.0% (2010: 9.5%). The reorganisation provision relates to the digital conversion and harmonising audio/
visual work across the whole circuit.
29 December
2011
£m
30 December
2010
£m
Expected timing for utilisation of property provisions
Analysed as:
Within one year 0.9 2.3
Between one and two years 0.8 1.1
In the second to fifth years 2.9 2.5
Over five years 5.6 6.0
10.2 11.9 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
80
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 
20. Capital and Reserves 
Share Capital
29 December
2011
£m
30 December
2010
£m
Cineworld Group plc
Allotted, called up and fully paid
142,348,693 (2010: 141,741,597) ordinary shares of £0.01 each 1.4 1.4
During the year a total of 607,096 ordinary shares of nominal value £0.01 were issued, of which 221,099 ordinary shares were part of 
the performance share plan and 385,997 (2010: 20,088) were part of the employee sharesave scheme. Consideration of £379,000 
(2010: £32,000) was received.
Translation Reserve 
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign 
operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
Hedging Reserve 
The hedging reserve comprises the liability in relation to the interest rate swap entered into, to hedge against variable interest payments 
on £65m (2010: £51.0m) of the total £97m (2010: £102m) of bank debt. As hedge accounting has been adopted the gains/losses are 
recorded through equity until such time as the cash flows being hedged occur, when they are recycled to the income statement. 
Dividends 
The following dividends were recognised during the period: 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Interim 5.1 4.8
Final (for the preceding period) 10.1 9.7
15.2 14.5
An interim dividend of 3.6p per share was paid on 7 October 2011 to ordinary shareholders (2010: 3.4p). The Board has proposed a 
final dividend of 7.4p per share, which will result in total cash payable of approximately £10.5m on 5 July 2012 (2010: 7.1p per share, 
total final dividend £10.1m). In accordance with IAS10 this had not been recognised as a liability at 29 December 2011.
21. Financial Instruments 
Overview 
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
•	
Credit risk
•	
Liquidity risk
•	
Market risk
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and processes 
for measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of capital. 
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. The 
Board has established the Risk Management Committee, which is responsible for developing and monitoring the Group’s risk 
management policies. The committee reports regularly to the Board of Directors on its activities. 
The Group’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits 
and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect 
changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities. The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, 
aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations. 
The Group’s Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and 
procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks by the Group. The Group’s Audit 
Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit. Internal Audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of certain risk 
management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee. 
Credit Risk 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual 
obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and investment securities.  Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
81
21. Financial Instruments continued
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. However, due to the nature of the Group’s business, trade 
receivables are not significant which limits the related credit risk. The Group’s trade receivables are disclosed in Note 15. Of the total 
balance of £1.8m (2010: £2.4m) due 68% (2010: 81%) are within credit terms. A further 13% (2010: 8%) outside credit terms cleared 
after the period end, and before signing of the financial statements. The bad debt provision as at 2011 is £11,000 (2010: £nil), with a 
bad debt expense in the period of £11,000 (2010: £nil). Based on past experience the Group believes that no additional impairment 
allowance is necessary in respect of the trade receivables that are past due. In 2011 the amount of trade receivables past due but 
unimpaired is £0.6m (2010: £0.2m). The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is also limited because the 
counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings. 
Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to 
managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both 
normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation. 
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of netting 
agreements. The amounts disclosed in the table are contractual undiscounted cash flows, including interest payments calculated using 
interest rates in force at each balance sheet date, so will not always reconcile with the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet. 
29 December 2011
Carrying
amount
£m
Contractual
cash flows
£m
6 mths
or less
£m
6–12
months
£m
1–2
years
£m
2–5
years
£m
More than
5 years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Unsecured bank loans 95.7 (106.4) (3.7) (3.7) (7.3) (24.7) (67.0)
Finance lease liabilities 6.7 (12.2) (0.3) (0.3) (0.6) (1.9) (9.1)
Trade and other payables 15.2 (15.2) (15.2) – – – –
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swap 1 0.7 (0.7) (0.7) – – – –
Interest rate swap 2 1.9 (2.1) (0.2) (0.3) (0.5) (1.1) –
Interest rate swap 3 1.9 (2.1) (0.2) (0.3) (0.5) (1.1) –
122.1 (138.7) (20.3) (4.6) (8.9) (28.8) (76.1)
On 31 March 2011, the Group refinanced its existing debt. The new five year facility consists of a £70m term loan with repayments of 
£2.5m every six months commencing June 2011 and a revolving facility of £100m. As at the period end, £65m of the term loan plus 
£32m of the revolving facility were drawn down.
The Group considered its hedging strategy at the time of the refinancing and concluded that it was not economic to close out the existing 
swap, which at 31 March 2011, was in a liability position of £2.2m. In addition, it took out two new interest rate swaps to hedge the 
remainder of the £70m term loan. In accordance with IFRS, the existing swap was re-assessed to establish whether it still met the 
criteria for hedge accounting. It did not meet the criteria and as a result, its fair value on 31 March 2011 of £2.2m was recycled to the 
income statement as an exceptional finance expense. At the 30 December 2011 the hedge was found to be ineffective therefore it has 
not been possible to hedge account for this swap and a gain of £1.1m has been recognised in the income statement in respect of the 
mark to market movement since it was last shown to be effective.
At the point of refinancing, the Group assessed whether the previous loan should be derecognised under IAS39. It was concluded that 
there was no substantial modification of terms, therefore it was not appropriate to extinguish the old debt instrument.
The unsecured bank loan is subject to two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net 
finance charges.
30 December 2010 
Carrying
amount
£m
Contractual
cash flows
£m
6 mths
or less
£m
6–12
months
£m
1–2
years
£m
2–5
years
£m
More than
5 years
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Unsecured bank loans 101.8 (103.9) (5.3) (5.2) (93.4) – –
Finance lease liabilities 6.8 (12.8) (0.3) (0.3) (0.6) (1.8) (9.8)
Trade and other payables 12.3 (12.3) (12.3) – – – –
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps used for hedging 2.8 (3.1) (1.2) (1.2) (0.7) – –
123.7 (132.1) (19.1) (6.7) (94.7) (1.8) (9.8) Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
82
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 
21. Financial Instruments continued
Cash Flow Hedges 
The following table indicates the periods in which the discounted cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are 
expected to occur. 
29 December 2011 
Carrying
amount
£m
Expected
cash flows
£m
6 months
or less
£m
6–12
months
£m
1–2
years
£m
2–5
years
£m
More than
5 years
£m
Interest rate swaps:
Swap 1 (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) – – – –
Swap 2 (1.9) (1.9) (0.2) (0.3) (0.5) (0.9) –
Swap 3 (1.9) (1.9) (0.2) (0.3) (0.5) (0.9) –
(4.5) (4.5) (1.1) (0.6) (1.0) (1.8) –
30 December 2010 
Carrying
amount
£m
Expected
cash flows
£m
6 mths
or less
£m
6–12
months
£m
1–2
years
£m
2–5
years
£m
More than
5 years
£m
Interest rate swaps:
Liabilities (2.8) (2.8) (1.2) (1.1) (0.5) – –
It is expected that the expected cash flows will impact profit and loss when the cash flows occur. 
Market Risk 
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the 
Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control 
market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
Foreign Currency Risk 
The majority of the Group’s operations are in the United Kingdom and hence for these operations there is no exposure to foreign currency 
risk other than in respect of certain purchases that may be denominated in currencies other than sterling. In addition there is an operation 
in Ireland where non-sterling revenues, purchases, financial assets and liabilities and cash flows can be affected by movements in Euro 
rates. However, the exposure is limited as euro operations are not significant. A 10% increase/(decrease) in the value of €1 against 
sterling would increase/decrease the profit before tax for 2011 by approximately £42,000 (2010: £23,000). A 10% increase/(decrease) in 
the value of €1 against sterling would increase/decrease equity in 2011 by approximately £5,000 (2010: £27,000).
Interest Rate Risk 
The Group’s policy is to manage its cost of borrowing by securing fixed interest rates on a portion of its term loan. 
Whilst fixed-rate interest-bearing debt is not exposed to cash flow interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the Group to enjoy a 
reduction in borrowing costs in markets where rates are falling. 
In addition, the fair value risk inherent in fixed-rate borrowing means that the Group is exposed to unplanned costs should debt be 
restructured or repaid early as part of the liquidity management process. 
The Group uses interest rate swaps agreed with other parties to hedge a portion of its bank loans that have variable interest rates. 
Interest rate swaps are measured at fair value, which have been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing 
interest rates. 
At the period end the Group had three interest rate swaps which hedged 100% (2010: 50%) of the Group’s variable rate unsecured term 
loan. The revolver loan, which was £32m at the end of the period, is not hedged. As a result, there is no impact on the income statement 
relating to the hedged bank debt as a result of any changes in interest rates.  Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
83
21. Financial Instruments continued
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments was:
 Carrying amount
2011 2010
Fixed rates instruments
Financial liabilities (interest rate swap) (4.5) (2.8)
Financial liabilities (unsecured bank loans – hedged portion) (65.0) (51.0)
(69.5) (53.8)
Variable rate instruments
Financial liabilities (unsecured bank loans – unhedged portion) (32.0) (51.0)
£65m (2010: £51.0m) of the variable rate financial liability is hedged via the interest rate swap with the balance attracting a variable 
interest rate. In 2011, the balance is the revolving facility.
Fair Value Sensitivity Analysis for Fixed Rate Instruments 
The Group accounts for fixed-rate derivative financial instruments (interest rate swaps) at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement 
to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement except where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting when recognition 
of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged. Hedge accounting was adopted from the year ended  
27 December 2007 on the swap taken out in May 2007. 
For the two new swaps taken out this year, a change of 100 basis points in interest rates would have increased equity by £1m or 
decreased equity by £1m for each swap and would have increased or decreased profit or loss by £nil (2010: £nil). For the pre-existing 
swap, a change of 100 basis points in interest rates would have increased equity by £nil or decreased equity by £nil (2010: increase 
£0.5m, decrease £0.5m) and would have increased or decreased profit or loss by £0.1m (2010: £nil). 
Cash Flow Sensitivity Analysis for Variable Rate Instruments 
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit or loss by the 
amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. The analysis 
is performed on the same basis for 2010.
Effect in GBP thousands
 Profit or loss Equity
100 bp
increase
100 bp
decrease
100 bp
increase
100 bp
decrease
29 December 2011
Variable rate instruments (1,005) 1,005 (1,005) 1,005
Interest rate swap 638 (638) 638 (638)
Cash flow sensitivity (net) (367) 367 (367) 367
30 December 2010
Variable rate instruments (1,087) 1,087 (1,087) 1,087
Interest rate swap 543 (543) 543 (543)
Cash flow sensitivity (net) (544) 544 (544) 544
Fair Values 
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in the 
financial statements. 
Short-term debtors, creditors and cash and cash equivalents have been excluded from the following disclosures on the basis that their 
carrying amount is a reasonable approximation to fair value. 
Carrying
amount
29 December
2011
£m
Fair value
29 December
2011
£m
Carrying
amount
30 December
2010
£m
Fair value
30 December
2010
£m
Unsecured bank loans 95.7 89.0 101.8 99.3
Finance lease liabilities 6.7 6.7 6.8 6.8
Interest rate swaps 4.5 4.5 2.8 2.8
106.9 100.2 111.4 108.9 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
84
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) 
21. Financial Instruments continued
The fair value of derivatives and borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest 
rates. The carrying amount of unsecured bank loans is stated net of debt issuance costs and the fair value is stated gross of debt 
issuance costs and is calculated using the market interest rates. 
The difference between net carrying amount and estimated fair value reflects unrealised gains or losses inherent in the instruments 
based on valuations at 29 December 2011 and 30 December 2010. The volatile nature of the markets means that values at any 
subsequent date could be significantly different from the values reported above. 
Fair Value Hierarchy 
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method. The different levels have been defined 
as follows: 
•	
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
•	
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the assets or liability, either directly (i.e. as 
prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices);
•	
Level 3: inputs for the assets or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
29 December 2011
Derivative financial instruments – 4.5 – 4.5
30 December 2010
Derivative financial instruments – 2.8 – 2.8
There have been no transfers between levels in 2009. No other financial instruments are held at fair value. 
Capital Management 
The capital structure of the Group consists of the following items:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 5.5 10.6
Loan notes outstanding 95.7 101.8
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 192.3 191.2
293.5 303.6
The Board of Directors constantly monitor the ongoing capital requirements of the business and have reviewed the current gearing ratio, 
being the ratio of bank debt to equity and consider it appropriate for the Group’s current circumstances. Ratios used in the monitoring of 
debt capital include the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net finance charges. 
The Group’s objective when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market 
confidence and to sustain future development of the business, to provide returns for shareholders and to optimise the capital structure 
to reduce the cost of capital. The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the return on 
capital, which the Group defines as total shareholders’ equity and the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders. 
22. Operating Leases 
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals commitments are as follows:
Land and
buildings
£m
Other
£m
29 December
2011
£m
Land and
buildings
£m
Other
£m
30 December
2010
£m
Less than one year 51.6 0.3 51.9 50.8 0.4 51.2
Between one and five years 207.2 1.2 208.4 210.6 1.6 212.2
More than five years 789.0 – 789.0 875.4 – 875.4
1,047.8 1.5 1,049.3 1,136.8 2.0 1,138.8 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
85
23. Capital Commitments
Capital commitments at the end of the financial period for which no provision has been made:
29 December
2011
£m
30 December
2010
£m
Contracted 2.8 –
Between the end of the financial period and the signing of the financial statements, capital commitments of £3.5m were made relating 
to digital projection equipment. In the prior year capital commitments were made consisting of £6.2m of digital projection equipment 
and £2.3m relating to new sites.
24. Related Parties 
The compensation of the Directors and key management personnel is as follows:
Salary
and fees
including bonus
£000
Compensation
for loss
of office
£000
Pension
contributions
£000
Total
£000
52 weeks ended 29 December 2011
Total compensation for Directors 1,375 342 115 1,832
Salary
and fees
including bonus
£000
Compensation
for loss
of office
£000
Pension
contributions
£000
Total
£000
52 weeks ended 30 December 2010
Total compensation for Directors and key management personnel 1,708 – 142 1,850
Key management personnel consisted of the Senior Vice President of Construction up until his retirement on 30 June 2010.
Alan Roux and Matthew Tooth were originally appointed by the Blackstone Group and their respective Directors’ fees of £nil and £12,000 
(2010: £28,875 and £33,000) were payable to the Blackstone Group. Following the sale by the Blackstone Group of its shareholding in 
the Company on 18 November 2010, Alan Roux stepped down from the Board, however, Matthew Tooth remained a Director in an 
independent capacity, although his Director’s fees continued to be paid to the Blackstone Group. He subsequently resigned as a 
Director on 11 May 2011. No compensation was paid in respect of his departure.
Share-based compensation benefit charges for key management personnel (including Directors) was £0.2m in 2011 (2010: £0.3m). 
Other Related Party Transactions 
Digital Cinema Media Limited (“DCM”) is a joint venture between the Group and Odeon Cinemas Holdings Limited set up on 10 July 
2008. Revenue receivable from DCM in the 52 week period ending 29 December 2011 totalled £13.6m (2010: £13.8m) and as at  
29 December 2011 £1.3m (2010: £2.0m) was due from DCM in respect of receivables. In addition the Group has a working capital  
loan outstanding from DCM of £0.5m (2010: £0.5m).  Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
86
Company Balance Sheet
at 29 December 2011
Note
29 December
2011
£000
29 December
2011
£000
30 December
2010
£000
30 December
2010
£000
Fixed assets
Investments 27 132,471 132,313
Current assets
Debtors 28 141,667 123,667
Cash at bank 38 53
141,705 123,720
Creditors: amount falling due within one year 29 (81,842) (64,823)
Net current assets 59,863 58,897
Net assets 192,334 191,210
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 30 1,423 1,417
Share premium account 30 171,761 171,386
Profit and loss account 30 19,150 18,407
Shareholders’ funds – equity 192,334 191,210
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2012 and were signed on its behalf by:
Stephen Wiener Philip Bowcock
Director Director Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
87
Company Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds
for the Period Ended 29 December 2011
Note
52 week
period ended
29 December
2011
£000
52 week
period ended
30 December
2010
£000
Profit for the period 15,778 16,862
Dividends paid during the period 30 (15,193) (14,456)
Movements due to share-based compensation 30 158 515
Equity instruments issued 381 32
Net increase in shareholders’ funds 1,124 2,953
Opening shareholders’ funds 191,210 188,257
Closing shareholders’ funds 192,334 191,210 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
88
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
25. Accounting Policies 
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the 
Company’s financial statements. 
Basis of Preparation 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and under the historical cost 
accounting rules. 
Information regarding the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position is set out in the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers’ Report on pages 14 to 21 and the Risks and Uncertainties section 
on pages 24 and 25. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the 
Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers’ Report on pages 14 to 21. In addition Note 21 to the financial statements includes the 
Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk. 
As highlighted in Note 16 to the financial statements, the Group meets its day to day working capital requirements through its bank 
facilities which consist of a five year facility of £170m, which comprises of a £70m term loan and £100m revolving facility. As at the period 
end, £65m of the term loan plus £32m of the revolving facility were drawn down. The current economic conditions create uncertainty 
particularly over (a) the level of demand for the Group’s products; and (b) the availability of bank finance in the foreseeable future. 
The current bank facility is subject to two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net 
finance charges. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show 
that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facility, including compliance with the bank facility covenants. 
Since the end of the period the Group has received commitments from a group of banks for a new five year facility of £170m to replace 
its existing facility which is due to expire in May 2012. The new facility will provide the Group with more flexibility to finance future 
expansion plans as well as other growth opportunities. Documentation is being drafted between the Group and the participating banks 
and all parties are working to complete the process in the near future. 
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual financial statements. 
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account. 
Under Financial Reporting Standard 1 the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds 
that its cash flows are included within the consolidated financial statements of Cineworld Group plc. 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with 
entities which form part of the Cineworld Group where the Group controls 100% of the voting rights. 
Investments 
In the Company’s financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for any impairment 
in value. 
Impairment 
The Group evaluates its investments for financial impairment where events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such 
assets may not be fully recoverable. When such evaluations indicate that the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable value, 
an impairment in value is recorded. 
Deferred Taxation 
The charge for taxation based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. 
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation 
and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19. 
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Company 
Following the adoption of FRS 25, financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity (i.e. forming part of shareholders’ 
funds) only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions:
a)  they include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or 
financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company; and
b)  where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no 
obligation to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the 
Company’s exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
89
25. Accounting Policies continued
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so 
classified takes the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share 
capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares. 
Share-Based Payment Transactions 
The share options programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of options granted is 
recognised as an addition to fixed asset investments with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date 
and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of the options 
granted is measured using an evaluation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The 
amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares options that vest except where forfeiture is due 
only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting. 
Shares appreciation rights are also granted by the Company to employees. The fair value of the amount payable to the employee is 
recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities. The fair value is initially measured at grant date and spread over 
the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment. The fair value of the share appreciation rights is 
measured based on an option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. 
The liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date and any changes in fair value recognised in profit and loss 
spread equally over the vesting period. 
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it recognises an increase in the cost of 
investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its subsidiary’s financial 
statements with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity. Amounts recharged to or reimbursed by the subsidiary are 
recognised as a reduction in the cost of investment in subsidiary. 
Own Shares Held by Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”) 
Transactions of the Group sponsored EBT are included in the Group financial information. In particular, the trust’s purchase of shares in 
the Company are debited directly to equity. 
26. Staff Numbers and Costs 
The Company has no employees. Non-Executive Directors salaries are recharged to the Company from its subsidiary Cineworld 
Cinemas Ltd. Total salaries paid to Non-Executive Directors were £379,000 (2010: £340,000). See pages 48 to 49 for details of 
directors’ emoluments. 
27 . Fixed Asset Investments 
Company
Shares in
Group
undertakings
£000
Balance at 30 December 2010 132,313
Additions 158
Balance at 29 December 2011 132,471
Net book value
At 30 December 2010 132,313
At 29 December 2011 132,471
For details of £158,000 addition to investment see Note 30.  Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
90
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
27 . Fixed Asset Investments continued
Country of incorporation Principal activity Class % of shares held
Subsidiary undertakings
Directly Held
Augustus 1 Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Indirectly Held
Augustus 2 Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cine-UK Limited England and Wales Cinema operation Ordinary 100
Cineworld Cinemas Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Cinemas Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
and cinema operation
Cineworld Finance Limited England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Cineworld Estates Limited England and Wales Cinema property leasing Ordinary 100
Cineworld South East Cinemas Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Exhibition Limited England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Gallery Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Gallery Cinemas Limited England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Slough Movie Centre Limited England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Adelphi-Carlton Limited Eire Cinema operation Ordinary 100
Cineworld Cinema Properties Limited England and Wales Property company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Elite Pictures Theatre 
(Nottingham) Limited
England and Wales Non-trading Ordinary 99.1
Classic Cinemas Limited England and Wales Retail services company Ordinary 100
Computicket Limited England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Digital Cinema Media Limited England and Wales Screen Advertising Ordinary 50
28. Debtors
29 December
2011
£000
30 December
2010
£000
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 141,667 123,667
141,667 123,667
29. Creditors: Amounts Falling Due Within One Year
29 December
2011
£000
30 December
2010
£000
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 81,842 64,823
81,842 64,823 Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
91
30. Share Capital and Reserves
Share capital
£000
Share premium
account
£000
Profit and
loss account
£000
Total
£000
At 30 December 2010 1,417 171,386 18,407 191,210
Profit for the period – – 15,778 15,778
Dividends paid during the period – – (15,193) (15,193)
Movements due to share-based compensation – – 158 158
Equity instruments issued 6 375 – 381
At 29 December 2011 1,423 171,761 19,150 192,334
For details of share issue see Note 20. 
Share premium is stated net of share issue costs. 
Equity instruments granted of £158,000 represents the £447,000 fair value of share options granted to employees of subsidiary 
undertakings less a £289,000 adjustment to equity following the settlement of some share options in cash in 2011. There is a 
corresponding increase in investments, see Note 27. 
This element of the profit and loss reserve is not distributable. 
31. Share-Based Payments 
See Note 18 of the Group financial statements. Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
92
Directors
A H Bloom (Non-Executive Director and Chairman)
S Wiener (Chief Executive Officer)
P Bowcock (Chief Financial Officer)
D Maloney  (Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director)
P Williams (Non-Executive Director)
T McGrath (Non-Executive Director)
M King (Non-Executive Director)
R Senat (Non-Executive Director)
Head Office
Power Road Studios 
114 Power Road 
London W4 5PY 
Telephone Number 
020 8987 5000
Website 
www.cineworld.co.uk 
www.cineworldplc.com
Place of Incorporation
England and Wales
Company Number
Registered Number: 5212407
Registered Office
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road
Chiswick
London W4 5PY
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
15 Canada Square
London E14 5GL
Final Dividend – 2011
Announcement 8 March 2012
Ex Dividend 6 June 2012
Record Date 8 June 2012
Payment Date 5 July 2012
Joint Brokers
JP Morgan Cazenove Ltd
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA
Investec Bank plc
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
Legal Advisers to the Company
Olswang LLP
90 High Holborn
London WC1V 6XX
Public Relations Advisers
M:Communications
1 Ropemaker Street
Ninth Floor
London EC2Y 9HT
Registrar
Capita Registrars Limited 
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU
Shareholder Information Five people who have  
helped us become UK No.1
Business Review
Highlights 01
Chairman’s Statement 02
Our Strategy 06
Our Business Model 08
UK and Ireland Market Overview 10
Our UK Presence 11
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
Officers’ Business Review 14
Risks and Uncertainties 24
Corporate Responsibility 28
Governance 
Directors’ Biographies 34
Directors’ Report 36
Corporate Governance Statement 40
Directors’ Remuneration Report 45
Statement of Directors’  
Responsibilities 51
Independent Auditor’s Report 52
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of  
Comprehensive Income 53
Consolidated Statement of  
Financial Position 54
Consolidated Statement of  
Changes in Equity 55
Consolidated Statement  
of Cash Flows 56
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 57
Company Balance Sheet 86
Company Reconciliation  
of Movements in  
Shareholders’ Funds 87
Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements 88
Shareholder Information 92
Contents
Cineworld is the UK’s 
leading cinema group
 1 Mike Wiles – Glasgow Renfrew Street 04
 2 Alison Chase – Academy 12
 3 David Spence – General Manager of the Year 22
 4 Tamlin McKinnon – Head Office, Customer Service 26
 5 Steven Wollaston – Leigh 32 Cineworld Group plc
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road
Chiswick
London W4 5PY
020 8987 5000
www.cineworld.com
www.cineworldplc.com
Cineworld Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
