 Focused on being 
the UK’s favourite
Cineworld Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 To be the favourite cinema chain.
Put our customers 
at the heart of 
everything we do
Deliver a great 
cinema 
experience
Develop our 
people, 
effectiveness 
and efﬁciencies
Grow our estate
Business Review
Highlights ............................................... 1
Chairman’s Statement ..........................2
UK and Ireland Market Overview .......4
The Business Model..............................6
Our Strategic Framework .....................8
Our Strategic Progress ........................ 10
Chief Executive and Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcers’ Business Review ................... 12
Risks and Uncertainties ......................24
Corporate Responsibility ....................26
Governance 
Directors’ Biographies ........................32
Directors’ Report ................................. 34
Corporate Governance Statement ....39
Directors’ Remuneration Report ....... 44
Statement of Directors’ 
R e s pons ibi l itie s .................................... 51
Independent Auditor’s Report ...........52
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income .....................53
Consolidated Statement of  
Financial Position ............................... 54
Consolidated Statement of  
Changes in Equity ...............................55
Consolidated Statement of  
Cash Flows ...........................................56
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements ..........................57
Company Balance Sheet ................... 90
Company Reconciliation of 
Movements in Shareholders’ Funds . 91
Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements ..........................92
Shareholder Information ....................96
Contents
Vision
Strategy 1
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Highlights
Other key highlights for Cineworld Cinemas  
(excluding Picturehouse)











A more detailed review is included in the Financial Performance section  
of this statement.
1 EBITDA is defined as operating profit before depreciation, impairments, reversals of 
impairments and amortisation, onerous lease and other non-recurring or non-cash property 
charges, transaction, pension, refinancing and reorganisation costs.
 Picturehouse results consolidated for 22 days covering 6 December 2012 to 27 December 2012.
Group revenue (£m) 
Group including Picturehouse
+3.1%
11
12 358.7
348.0
Profit before tax (£m) 
Group including Picturehouse
+15.3%
11
12 38.5
33.4
Diluted EPS (p) 
Group including Picturehouse
+14.4%
11
12 19.1
16.7
Adjusted pro-forma profit  
before tax (£m) 
Group including Picturehouse
+10.0%
11
12 40.7
37.0
Adjusted pro-forma diluted EPS (p)  

Group including Picturehouse
+10.4%
11
12 21.2
19.2
Proposed final dividend (£m)  

Group including Picturehouse
+8.1%
11
12 8.0
7.4
Proposed full year dividend (p)  

Group including Picturehouse
+7.3%
11
12 11.8
11.0
Group excluding Picturehouse
+2.4%
11
12 356.2
348.0
EBITDA
1
 (£m) 
Group including Picturehouse
+6.0%
11
12 67.1
63.3
Group excluding Picturehouse
+5.2%
11
12 66.6
63.3 2
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to report that the Group delivered a satisfactory year 
of trading in 2012 particularly against a background of significant 
public events which adversely affected cinema attendance namely 
the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee celebrations, the European football 
championships and the London Olympics.
Our gross UK and Ireland box office market share was 24.7%, 
according to Rentrak/EDI which was a credible result in a market 
which saw some consolidation of smaller cinema operators by our 
main competitors. It is a clear demonstration of the success of our 
efforts to increase the competitiveness of our film and retail offers, 
our pricing and the comfort and accessibility of our cinemas.
It was a busy year for the Group in the execution of our growth 
strategy and investment activities. We successfully completed the 
conversion of our estate to digital projectors, opened a new seven 
screen cinema in Aldershot on 26 October on schedule and we 
expanded our IMAX screens to eight locations. Our focus on the 
customer and the cinema experience remains as important as 
ever and forms a significant part of our Customer First strategy. 
During the year, Cineworld was the first major cinema operator to 
abolish booking fees and it also launched a 10% reduction in the 
price of tickets booked online through MyCineworld. Our Unlimited 
subscription programme continued to expand and still remains  
a unique offering in UK and Ireland.
The most significant event of the year was the successful 
acquisition of Picturehouse on 6 December. Picturehouse 
cinemas are characterised by their individual and often unique 
styles and they appeal to a more mature audience with a different 
retail offering and film choice. The chain operates in a different 
market segment from that of Cineworld Cinemas and has the 
potential to grow under its own brand and separate management. 
There are opportunities to share best practices across retail, 
operations and film programming activities. I am very excited by 
the potential growth prospects for the Group and I would like to 
welcome Lyn Goleby, Picturehouse’s Managing Director, and her 
management team to the Group.
It is therefore a pleasure to report that the Board has proposed a 
7.3% increase in the full year dividend for 2012 to 11.8p, which 
continues the year on year growth in dividends every year since 
2008. This is an achievement of which we are particularly proud, 
more especially as it has taken place in challenging economic 
times. Notwithstanding the increased dividend proposal and the 
Picturehouse acquisition, the balance sheet remains strong.
The Board remains committed to maintaining a strong culture of 
governance throughout the whole organisation. We continue to 
take note of issues concerning the environment, remuneration, 
gender and diversity and health and safety and where appropriate 
to review our practices accordingly.
Tom McGrath has decided to step down at the Annual General 
Meeting on 15 May 2013 and not stand for re-election. He has 
been a Non-Executive Director since May 2005 and has made a 
significant contribution since that time, particularly keeping the 
Board up to date on developments in the film and cinema industry 
in the US. He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee, a role 
that Rick Senat will fill going forward.
We believe that the economic and financial challenges will 
continue during 2013 and that the competitive landscape will 
remain tough. We will strive to continually improve what we offer 
to our customers and to make Cineworld’s and Picturehouse’s 
cinemas the consumer’s choice. There are attractive growth 
prospects for both chains. Cineworld Cinemas has a strong 
pipeline of new multiplex cinemas over the next five years and in 
2013 plans to open four new cinemas at Wembley, St Neots, 
Gloucester and Glasgow Science Centre. Picturehouse gives the 
Group further growth opportunities and adds to my optimism 
about the future prospects of the Group.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our management and 
our employees for their hard work and achievements. Our people 
continue to demonstrate a high degree of motivation and passion 
for the business and for delivering success. The Group has a 
successful business model that has proven itself over successive 
years and which has delivered a strong financial and competitive 
position. I will be working with management and staff to move the 
business forward and look forward to reporting continued growth 
to you, our shareholders.
Anthony Bloom
Chairman
7 March 2013


 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
3
A different experience
The Picturehouse chain of cinemas joined the Cineworld Group in 
December 2012. Consisting of 21 cinemas each with ﬁve or fewer 
screens and their own individual styles, they offer something very 
different to Cineworld Cinemas multiplexes. Situated in urban 
areas, they cater for students and a diverse afﬂuent adult 
audience who appreciate arthouse ﬁlms, the unique ambience 
and more intimate cinema going experience.
There is more to Picturehouse than just cinemas however, it has a 
strong café bar culture and offers a very wide range of alternative 
content. It provides operating systems to other cinemas, acts as a 
distributor for smaller ﬁlms and even programmes screenings at 
34 independently owned cinemas.
Looking to the future, a new Picturehouse opened in Brighton in 
December 2012 and there are plans to expand the chain further 
and bring the unique arthouse experience to more locations 
around the country.
21
 4
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
UK and Ireland  
Market Overview
The combined UK and Irish cinema market continues to be 
dominated by three major UK exhibitors, Cineworld Cinemas, 
Odeon UCI and Vue. In total, they account for over 70% of the 
total market box office and provide over 60% of the total screens 
in the UK. Cineworld Group plc is listed on the London Stock 
Exchange, while Odeon UCI and Vue are both privately owned 
groups.
Cineworld Cinemas’ box office market shares in the UK and the 
combined UK and Irish markets in 2012 were 25.9% and 24.7% 
respectively (2011: 26.1% and 24.6% respectively). Cineworld 
Cinemas also leads in terms of admissions where it contributed 
27.3% of all UK admissions (2011: 28.2%). In terms of number of 
cinemas and screens, Cineworld Cinemas has been the second 
largest operator in the combined UK and Irish for a number of 
years behind Odeon UCI.
City Screens Limited and its subsidiaries form the “Picturehouse” 
group of cinemas. Most of the cinemas trade under the 
Picturehouse name. The box office market share in the UK and 
Irish markets in 2012 was 1.7% (2011: 1.5%) which makes it the 
largest of the non-multiplex cinema chains.
The rest of the market is represented by smaller multiplex 
operators and independents which tend to operate non-multiplex 
cinemas (less than five screens). Cineworld Cinemas has a small 
presence in Ireland with one, albeit significant, cinema in Dublin 
which is one of the top ten largest cinemas in the combined UK 
and Irish market in 2012 by gross box office (Rentrak/EDI).
2012 saw consolidation in the UK market with Odeon acquiring 
the BFI Southbank and a site from AMC, Vue acquiring the Apollo 
cinema chain and Cineworld acquiring Picturehouse. Before this 
the UK market was largely constant for a number of years though 
the ownership of Vue changed in late 2010. There are significant 
barriers to entry, both through acquisition and organically. 
Competition law limits the potential for major consolidation in the 
industry. The rate of new cinema openings has been falling in 
recent years, partly due to the limited number of new retail and 
leisure development opportunities and the long time to bring 
developments to fruition. This has been exacerbated more 
recently due to reduced funding for developers in the present 
financial climate though confidence has started to improve and a 
more visible pipeline of new sites in future years is emerging.
Box office revenue in 2012 in the combined UK and Irish market 
increased 2.9% to £1.17bn (Rentrak/EDI), whilst UK admissions 
fell 1.4% to 170m (Cinema Exhibitors Association). Overall cinema 
has remained resilient in the prevailing economic and consumer 
environment. The low price of going to the cinema compared to 
other forms of entertainment and leisure and the desire for 
escapism have remained key attractions.
Approximately 80% of screen advertising revenues in the UK 
during 2012 were generated by a separate business called Digital 
Cinema Media Limited (“DCM”) which is jointly owned by the 
Cineworld Group and Odeon UCI. In addition to Cineworld, 
Picturehouse and Odeon UCI, DCM’s clients also include Vue 
(from the beginning of 2011) and a number of other smaller 
cinema operators. Its only and smaller competitor is Pearl and 
Dean, which represents the Empire cinema chain and a collection 
of other smaller operators.
Underpinning the overall success of the cinema industry in 2012 
was the strong line up of films and the completion of conversion 
to digital projection. The number of films released in the 3D 
format at 37 was the same as that of 2011 and is expected to 
remain broadly constant in 2013.

 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
5
Our UK and Irish Presence
27%


21


60

 80


818
Cineworld Cineworld cinemas
Picturehouse cinemas
 6
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The Business Model
The key driver of our business is customers visiting our cinemas to 
see feature films. The majority of mainstream and popular films 
are produced by a small number of studios in the US.
We aim to promote customer admissions by offering clean, 
comfortable, well-run facilities in well sited locations, which makes 
cinema going a pleasurable experience and encourages more 
frequent return visits. We seek to complement this by optimising 
the use of auditorium space.
Admissions, in turn, drive the two other main income sources 
which are: 
1) Retail sales to our customers comprising principally food and 
drink for consumption within our cinemas with soft drinks and 
popcorn historically being the two core products; and 
2) Revenue from advertisements shown on our screens prior to 
feature presentations. Nearly all advertising is arranged through 
the Group’s joint venture company, Digital Cinema Media Limited, 
which sells cinema screen advertising space for the majority of 
cinema exhibitors in the UK.
There are other ancillary income streams which include sales of 
3D glasses, screen/auditorium hire fees, booking fees, income 
from games machines, gift cards and sponsorship. 
The principal direct costs to the business are film rental paid to 
the film distributors for the rights to show the films and the 
purchase costs of food and drink sold to customers. The main 
cinema operating costs are staff salaries and wages, energy, 
repairs and maintenance and property related costs.
With the addition of City Screens Limited and its subsidiaries 
(trading as “Picturehouse”) on 6 December 2012, the Group now 
operates 101 cinemas, under two separate cinema brands, which 
operate in different markets that are differentiated in terms of film 
content, the style and appeal of the individual cinemas and the 
food and beverage offered. This, in turn, influences how the 
different customer groups use the cinemas and their perception 
of their cinema going experience.
High Quality of Venue
High Quality of Film Offer
High Quality of Retail Offer Sales and Marketing Delivery
Operational Delivery 7
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012



Cineworld Cinemas
 Multiplex cinema chain with 77 of 80 cinemas being multiplex 
cinemas (cinemas with five or more screens)
 With an emphasis on providing mainstream and popular films 
which appeal to a wide range of audience including families, 
young adults and children 
 The cinemas are more functionally designed to better serve high 
customer volumes and are often located in out of town or edge 
of town leisure and retail developments with parking facilities 
 Customers are offered a more uniform level of experience in 
terms of film choice, seating and retail, of which popcorn and 
soft drinks form the core retail products
Cineworld Cinemas provides more screens to show a wider choice 
of films to appeal to a variety of customer groups and the 
provision of an enhanced range of product and services. 
Cineworld Cinemas’ policy aims to ensure that its headline ticket 
prices remain competitive at local level. This is supported by 
discounted price structures covering off peak (particularly mid 
week) and prices targeted at particular sections of the customer 
base such as pensioners and students. 
Cineworld Cinemas operate a subscription service called 
“Unlimited”, which is a fixed monthly (or annual) subscription 
which enables customers to watch as many 2D films at Cineworld 
cinemas as they wish. Cineworld Cinemas is currently the only 
cinema operator in the UK and Ireland to offer this service and to 
date the service has over 320,000 members.
Cineworld Cinema sites are acquired on leaseholds of typically  
25 years and property related costs consist of rent, rates and 
service charges.
Picturehouse
 Arthouse specialist cinema chain with 21 cinemas, of which 
19 have fewer than five screens
 Whilst blockbuster films may be shown at these cinemas, 
non-mainstream and specialised films are central to  
its programme
 The cinemas tend to be located in urban areas with a  
high student, affluent and diverse city dwelling adult  
orientated population
 The cinemas often have their own individual styles and provide 
a unique ambience in contrast to that of a multiplex cinema
 Food and drink is a key differentiator that will be specifically 
tailored to the local market and may include bars and cooked 
food which cater to a more mature customer
 Typical Picturehouse customers will tend to visit as a social 
occasion or as a cultural outing rather than purely to view films 
and therefore look for a more personal and intimate cinema 
going experience
Picturehouse operate a separate annual membership scheme  
by which subscribers pay an annual fee in return for three free 
tickets, discounts across ticket, food and drink purchases and 
third party discounts at Picturehouse cinemas. The service 
currently has over 100,000 members. 
Picturehouse cinemas were mainly acquired on a leasehold basis 
with a few sites being freeholds.
The Customer Admissions and Revenues “A Great Cinema Experience”
Repeat visits Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
8
Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012



Our Strategic Framework
Put our customers  
at the heart of  
everything we do
To know our customers and understand what they want in order 
to increase attendance, resulting in increased revenues, retail 
spend per customer and other revenue streams
Grow our estate
To grow through selective new openings and acquisitions
Deliver a great  
cinema experience
We want our customers to have a great experience  
in our cinemas whilst enjoying comfortable, safe  
and clean cinemas
Develop our people, 
effectiveness 
and efﬁciencies
To develop teams and live to our values of creating a culture with 
a passion for People, Innovation and Achieving, always focusing 
on the customer and delivering a great cinema experience
To be the  
favourite  
cinema  
chain
Our Vision
Our focus
8 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
9
Cineworld plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
















Our Strategy
Highlights Further reading

 Turn to page 15 for  
a MyCineworld case study
Our IMAX case study is on page 20. 
We’ve also a Starbucks story on page 19 
Turn to page 23 for a Cineworld 
Academy case study




THE
ACADEMY
premiere management training
To read more on our acquisition of 
Picturehouse, turn to page 3
9 10
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Strategic Progress



Our Strategy Action undertaken in 2012 The future
Put our customers at the heart of  
everything we do
To know our customers and understand 
what they want in order to increase 
attendance, resulting in increased revenues, 
retail spend per customer and other 
revenue streams














































Deliver a great cinema experience
We want our customers to have a great 
experience in our cinemas whilst enjoying 
comfortable, safe and clean cinemas





















 11
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Strategy Action undertaken in 2012 The future
Develop our people, effectiveness 
and efﬁciencies
To develop teams and live to our values of 
creating a culture with a passion for People, 
Innovation and Achieving, always focusing 
on the customer and delivering a great 
cinema experience






















Grow our estate
To grow through selective new openings 
and acquisitions





















 12
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive and  
Chief Financial Ofﬁcers’  
Business Review
Performance Overview
As City Screens Limited and its subsidiaries (“Picturehouse”) only 
became part of the Group on 6 December 2012 and therefore  
was consolidated for the final 22 days of 2012, the following 
commentary focuses primarily on the performance and activities of 
the Cineworld Group excluding Picturehouse, except where stated.
52 week period ended  
27 December 2012
52 week period 
ended 
29 December 
2011 
Total
Group  
Total
Picturehouse  
Total
Cineworld  
Total
Admissions 48.0m 0.2m 47.8m 48.3m
£m £m £m £m
Box office 252.6 1.0 251.6 242.1
Retail 82.8 0.5 82.3 81.6
Other Income 23.3 1.0 22.3 24.3
Total revenue 358.7 2.5 356.2 348.0
Total revenue in 2012 was £356.2m an increase of 2.4% on the 
prior year (2011: £348.0m). Cineworld’s box office increased 
3.9% to £251.6m. Average ticket price per admission increased 
by 5.0% to £5.26 (2011: £5.01) whilst total retail revenues of 
£82.3m were marginally ahead of the previous year (2011: 
£81.6m). Other revenues fell by 8.2% to £22.3m (2011: £24.3m).
Cineworld’s box office market share in the combined UK and Irish 
market was 24.7% (2011: 24.8%) making it the second largest 
cinema operator in the UK and Ireland, whilst it remained the 
largest operator in the UK with a box office market share of 25.9% 
(2011: 26.1%) (All market data supplied from Rentrak/EDI). 
Cineworld’s admissions were 0.5m or 1.0% less than the prior year.
Box Ofﬁce
The principal income for Cineworld is box office revenues. 
Marginally lower admissions in the year combined with a better 
average ticket price contributed to a 3.9% increase in box office 
sales to £251.6m. This equated to a 2.2% increase on a gross 
box office basis (inclusive of VAT); whilst the UK and Ireland 
cinema industry as a whole was up 2.8% against the previous 
financial year (Source: Rentrak/EDI).
The average ticket price per admission increased by 5.0% to 
£5.26 (2011: £5.01). This increase resulted in part from annual 
price increases and a higher proportion of adults being admitted 
at full price, reflecting the film mix. These factors were partly 
offset by a lower level of 3D business, a similar level of take up of 
concessionary and discounted tickets and the 10% discount on 
tickets booked online via MyCineworld which was introduced in 
March 2012. The average net ticket price (excluding VAT) of 3D 
was £6.74 compared to 2D of £4.78. Cineworld continued to offer 
its customers good value with the lowest average ticket price of 
any of the major UK cinema groups. In the current economic 
climate there remained a notable proportion of customers who 
took advantage of our lower mid week ticket prices. In 2012 
approximately 26.5% of admissions were for Tuesday and 
Wednesday performances (2011: 27.5%).
The outstanding film of 2012 was “Skyfall”, which to date has 
grossed in excess of £100m. Alongside “Skyfall”, “The Dark 
Knight Rises” and “Marvel Avengers Assemble” were the two 
other films which exceeded £50m each in the UK and Ireland box 
office. There were also strong performances from blockbusters 
such as “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey”, “Twilight Saga: 
Breaking Dawn – Part 2”, “Ted” and “Ice Age: Continental Drift”, 
which all performed above or in line with industry expectations. 
Excluding Picturehouse, Cineworld largely maintained its box 
office market share in the UK in 2012. This was despite the 
acquisitions of cinemas by both Odeon and Vue in the year and 
the dominance of blockbuster films which traditionally favour the 
programming strategies of Cineworld’s main competitors. 3D 
films continued to contribute a sizeable proportion of overall film 
business with 37 films released in 3D the same number as in 
2011. The 3D format continued to remain popular, although  
some value-seeking customers and particularly families, had  
a preference for the 2D format. Film studios continue to be 
selective over what films are released in the 3D format, 
concentrating on proven themes involving action, fantasy and 
animation and appealing to the older teenage and young adult 
Philip Bowcock
Chief Financial Officer
Stephen Wiener
Chief Executive Officer 13
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
audience. This is resulting in the number of 3D titles and the 
proportion of national box office stabilising at 22% (2011: 23%). 
The most notable 3D films in 2012, and examples of this trend, 
were “Marvel Avengers Assemble”, “Ice Age: Continental Drift” 
and “The Amazing Spider-Man”.
We remained true to our strategy of offering customers the 
broadest range of films on the market. There were a number of 
smaller and mid range films that performed well during the year 
including: “End of Watch”, “Katy Perry: Part of Me”, and “Cabin in 
the Woods”. As is to be expected, because of our film 
programming strategy, we achieved higher individual market 
shares on these films than our overall market average. We also 
remained the biggest exhibitor of Bollywood films in the UK with a 
market share in excess of 50%. Popularity of this genre remains 
high with films such as “Jab Tak Hai Jaan” and “Ek Tha Tiger” 
released during the year. In addition, other specialised and foreign 
language films were played, such as “The Raid”. We were also the 
exclusive UK exhibitor for some Polish titles.
Alternative Content
We continued to make good progress during the year in developing 
our alternative content offering which has been made possible by 
our digital conversion programme. In the field of the performing 
arts, our core live opera and theatre product came from the New 
York Metropolitan Opera, the National Theatre and the Royal Opera 
House, all of which were well attended. Cineworld Cinemas also 
showed some operatic performances from Glyndebourne during 
the year for which Picturehouse acted as distributor. As a one-off 
event, the men’s and women’s singles finals of the tennis at 
Wimbledon were shown again live in 3D and we also showed live 
boxing. Looking forward, we will be trialling a variety of live events 
from The Comedy Store season to a live tour of the Pompeii 
exhibition at the British Museum and now have the technical 
capability to screen other live events at short notice. The scope of 
alternative content is expanding though it remains a niche offering 
and a relatively small contributor to box office revenues.
Retail
Food and drink sales to our customers are the second most 
important source of revenue and represent 23% of total  
revenues. Total retail revenues were marginally better at  
£82.3m (2011: £81.6m).
Net retail spend per person improved 1.8% in the year to £1.72 
(2011: £1.69) reflecting the targeted promotions and the film 
slate. As expected, our customers remained highly value conscious 
given the tough consumer environment and we successfully 
responded with a series of value initiatives such as the “Bargain 
Tuesday/Orange Wednesday Combo” and the “Family Combo” 
offers as well as the “Christmas Gift Box”. We introduced 
discounts of 10% for Unlimited subscribers with 25% discounts on 
most products for all premium members (those with more than 
12 months’ membership). We also ran a number of successful 
partnership initiatives with suppliers involving special price deals 
and product sampling.
During the year we made progress in developing our coffee offer. 
At the end of March we opened a full Starbucks coffee franchise 
at our Sheffield cinema and a second franchise at our Crawley 
cinema in November. Both outlets have traded above 
expectations and continue to grow revenues. As a result we have 
plans to provide Starbucks coffee in more locations in 2013 
through a varied range of offers from full franchises to single 
counter service offers.
Other Income
Other Income includes all other revenue streams outside box 
office and retail and represents about 6.3% of total revenues. It 
fell 8.2% to £22.3m (2011: £24.3m).
The largest single element of Other Income is screen advertising 
revenue. Trading at Digital Cinema Media Limited (“DCM”), our 
joint venture screen advertising business formed in July 2008, 
was marginally better than the previous year but continued to 
reflect the difficult trading environment within the wider 
advertising industry. The final quarter of the year benefitted 
significantly from the advertising opportunities from “Skyfall”.
DCM’s primary function is to sell advertising time on cinema 
screens on behalf of Cineworld Cinemas, Picturehouse and its 
other clients. It also engages in related promotional work between 
advertisers and cinemas. The management team at DCM has 
been driving operational efficiencies and effectiveness and, 
during the year, has been working on repositioning the operations 
to handle the digital format. All the three major circuits, 
Cineworld, Odeon and Vue became fully digitised during 2012, 
providing DCM the opportunity to increase scale and potentially 
open up new segments of the market.
Other Income included sales of 3D glasses, ticket bookings and 
theatre hires. Much of the fall in income was due to the removal 
of booking fees which coincided with the relaunch of the 
MyCineworld online membership programme in March 2012. 
Sales of 3D glasses continued to soften, which reflected fewer 
3D admissions compared with the previous year and more 
customers re-using their purchased glasses, which demonstrate 
the success of our initiative to encourage their re-use rather than 
disposal. In 2012, approximately 50% of customers attending 3D 
performances were still purchasing 3D glasses, which was a 
reduction on the 2011 level of about 55%.
Picturehouse
On 6 December 2012 the Group acquired the Picturehouse 
cinema chain for £47.3m. It comprised of 21 cinemas focusing on 
a different audience from Cineworld Cinemas, with the cinemas 
being smaller (all have five or fewer screens) and more individual.
Whilst blockbuster films may be shown at these cinemas, 
non-mainstream and specialised films are central to its 
programming as an arthouse cinema chain. The cinemas tend to 
be located in urban areas with a high student, affluent and 
diverse, adult orientated population. Food and drink is a key 
differentiator and some have bars and food operations which  14
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
Ofﬁcers’ Business Review  

form a significant proportion of a cinema’s total business. 
Cinemas tend to have their own individual styles and provide a 
unique ambience compared with that of a multiplex cinema and 
appeal to students and a more mature audience that requires a 
different retail and film choice. Typical Picturehouse customers 
will tend to visit as a social occasion or as a cultural outing rather 
than purely to view films and therefore require a more personal 
cinema going experience.
The market in which Picturehouse operates is distinct to those of 
Cineworld Cinemas. There is growing demand from older and from 
more affluent cinema goers and Picturehouse is well positioned to 
capitalise on this more specialised sector of the cinema market 
under its own brand and management.
Since acquisition, Picturehouse has traded in line with 
expectations. As stated at the time of announcing the acquisition, 
Picturehouse continues to be run under separate management 
who will develop the brand and pipeline of new cinemas.
While Cineworld Cinemas and Picturehouse are complementary 
brands which operate in separate markets, common ownership 
will allow the realisation of a number of valuable synergies. The 
Picturehouse acquisition is a sign of our strategic intent to grow 
the Group and we will continue to look for suitable expansionary 
opportunities that are in the best interests of our shareholders.
The acquisition of Picturehouse is currently under review by the 
Office of Fair Trading. The review is expected to be completed by 
the end of the first half 2013.
Other Cinema Expansion
One of the key strategic priorities of the Group remains 
expansion. We continue to maintain the financial capability to 
pursue such opportunities aided by the cash generative nature of 
our business model.
In October 2012, as scheduled, we opened a seven screen 
cinema in Aldershot, which increased Cineworld Cinemas’ estate 
to 80 cinemas with 818 screens. We have plans to open four new 
cinemas in 2013 under the Cineworld brand. Work has begun on 
site for a nine screen cinema in a new development at Wembley 
and we are on schedule to commence work on a six screen 
cinema in St Neots, a ten screen replacement cinema in 
Gloucester and we have recently reached an agreement to take 
over the existing IMAX cinema at the Glasgow Science Centre.
Whilst the uncertainty over development financing and timing of 
new projects continues, we have seen improvements in 
confidence in the property market during the year with renewed 
interest in existing proposals as well as new plans and ideas 
being tabled. Our strong financial position and our good track 
record of driving high footfalls through our cinemas make us an 
attractive partner for property developers. We have over 14 
further development sites signed or in legal negotiation and have 
a good pipeline of further opportunities to achieve our target of 
25 new Cineworld Cinemas between 2013 and 2017.
Initiatives and Developments
As part of our strategy to improve the customer experience 
significant work has happened behind the scenes in improving the 
efficiency of the transaction process for our customers and 
introducing new technology. The internet and mobile technology 
have been a key focus of our attentions over the past few years 
– where we have been working on integrating marketing, booking 
and ticketing activities. At the end of the summer of 2012, we 
completed the upgrade of our cinema point of sale system and 
supporting systems covering finance and customer relationship 
management. These new systems will increase our transactional 
capabilities and support better communication with more of our 
customers.
The Unlimited programme is one of the pillars that underpin our 
strategy of growing other revenues and admissions. At the end of 
2012, there were almost 320,000 members (2011: 280,000), a 
figure which has since increased further. The Unlimited programme 
brings to the Group the financial benefits of regular subscription 
income thereby reducing the level of fluctuation in our revenues 
contributing over 17% of total box office in 2012. It also brings 
operational benefits by encouraging repeat visits, often at off-peak 
times. This, in turn, enables us to improve capacity utilisation at 
our cinemas, provide more retail opportunities and allows us to 
offer a wider range of films than our competitors. As a result, we 
continued to enjoy significant market share among the smaller, 
less mainstream films during 2012.
The Group introduced a number of customer related initiatives in 
line with our stated strategy. On 16 March 2012, Cineworld was 
the first major cinema operator in the UK to abolish online 
booking fees. Research showed the fee to be a barrier to booking 
in advance and it was unpopular with our customers. This 
innovation was accompanied by the launch of a 10% reduction in 
the price of tickets for booking online through MyCineworld and 
membership has since increased to over 2.4m members by the 
end of the year.
The growth of MyCineworld is an important part of our strategy to 
engage further with our customers. It will enable us to improve 
our customer retention and help us to encourage more frequent 
visits to our cinemas. We have begun collaborative work with film 
distributors to market films to the MyCineworld base with 
campaigns for “Dark Knight”, “The Hobbit” and “Les Miserables”. 
Furthermore, by transferring bookings online, we aim to improve 
customer service by reducing queues at the box offices and to 
convert more space to other activities which will improve the 
customer experience at our cinemas and help drive incremental 
revenues. The addition of new sites will facilitate the expansion of 
our Unlimited and MyCineworld propositions into new locations, 
thereby growing and consolidating our business further.
Activity on our consumer website continued to increase year on 
year, with 2012 recording over 65m visits. This performance has 
enabled our website to remain in the top 40 most visited websites 
in the UK (as reported in the IMRG Experian Hitwise Hot Shops 
List) for the year. In addition, our successful mobile enabled web  15
Driving increased frequency
Following a successful trial in Scotland for over a year, on March 
16th 2012 Cineworld became the ﬁrst UK Cinema group to remove 
booking fees across the circuit and reduce its prices online by 10% 
for customers who register with MyCineworld. The programme, 
along with Unlimited, is key to our ‘Customer First’ strategy of 
better understanding our customers to provide them with an 
improved customer experience. MyCineworld allows us to drive 
increased frequency by targeting customers with tailored, relevant 
and timely communications and offers. The growth of the 
customer base has been signiﬁcant with a 140% rise in our 
membership base to over 2.4m in 2012. And by encouraging 
customers online we are improving the customer experience in our 
foyers by reducing queues; online admissions now exceed 20% 
which in turn is allowing Cineworld to invest in improving the 
cinema experience in our foyers, introducing Starbucks and other 
opportunities to increase dwell time and spend.
140%

Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
15 UNLIMITED
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
16
320,000

Membership goes from strength 
to strength
Our Unlimited membership scheme is unique within the UK 
cinema industry. Customers can watch Unlimited 2D movies for a 
small monthly subscription and pay a small uplift for 3D, IMAX or 
D-Box movies. Membership has now increased to over 320,000 
subscribers which means Cineworld has a high volume of regular 
customers to all types of ﬁlm – which supports our strategy of 
showing the widest range of content of all the major UK cinema 
chains. In 2012 we successfully re-launched Unlimited delivering  
a re-design of the programme and a new premium card with 
increased beneﬁts for customers who stay with the scheme  
over 12 months to encourage increased loyalty. 17
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
Ofﬁcers’ Business Review  

booking service is now complemented by our applications 
(“apps”). During the year, 1.8m iPhone apps and 340,000 
Android phone apps were downloaded reflecting customers’ 
desire to book wherever they are.
During 2012, we increased the number of cinemas offering IMAX 
screens to eight. This has raised our profile in the provision of 
high end cinema viewing with the recognised brand leader which 
attracts a premium ticket price. We have plans to install IMAX at 
more cinemas. In addition we ran a pilot scheme with the D-Box 
seating concept at six cinemas. The D-Box seats provide 
additional sensory experiences for customers and a premium is 
charged over the applicable ticket price.
Investment in Digital
All of Cineworld Cinemas’ estate was converted to digital projection 
by the end of the first half of the year. As the financial benefits to 
film studios of digital were substantial, they offered incentives to 
cinema exhibitors to help fund the conversion. In June 2010 
Cineworld entered into an agreement with Arts Alliance Media (“AAM”) 
whereby AAM utilises its Virtual Print Fee (“VPF”) agreements with 
film distributors to recover financial contributions over a maximum 
period of ten years, on behalf of Cineworld, from the film studios. 
Under the AAM deal, Cineworld acquired the digital projectors 
directly from a third party and retained full control over the timing 
of their purchase and over their installation and operation.
Over approximately seven years, VPFs are expected to cover a 
substantial proportion of the total acquisition cost of about 
£40m. The VPFs are accounted for as a reduction in the cost of 
film hire thereby benefiting EBITDA. To date the overall VPF 
process between Cineworld, AAM and the film distributors has 
operated successfully. We will continue to receive VPFs over the 
contract period to recover most of the cost of investment.
People and Diversity
Our people are core to the success of our business and remain  
a strategic priority. Developing and retaining people help to make 
Cineworld a great place to work. We continued to invest in our 
people throughout the Group. Our people have opportunities at  
all levels from Apprenticeships, through the Step Up programmes 
(helping to improve staff succession) up to The Academy 
programme for high potential cinema managers. To date 
approximately 85% of cinema managers were promoted from 
internal applicants.
We are an equal opportunity employer and seek to recruit, retain 
and promote staff on the basis of their qualifications, skills, 
aptitude and attitude. A wide range of applicants are encouraged 
to apply for all roles and we have a wide and diverse workforce. 
We still believe that the single most important factor is to identify, 
recruit and retain the people we consider, on merit, to be the best 
candidates for each particular role.
Key Business Relationships
Cineworld Cinemas has worked hard at developing good working 
relationships with a wide range of film studios, both major and 
independent. Our focus on driving cinema admissions and on 
providing our customers with a wide range of films through our film 
strategy has resulted in many opportunities for us to work with film 
studios on simplifying the film buying process and on promoting 
smaller films to a wider audience. We also work closely on 
combating film piracy, in association with the Cinema Exhibitors’ 
Association and The Federation Against Copyright Theft.
We build relationships with developers, landlords and council 
planners to ensure that we maintain a pipeline of new sites for 
the future. In addition, we work closely with our principal 
suppliers, on promotions that help drive ticket and retail sales. 
We seek to manage relationships with our suppliers fairly and to 
work in accordance with our aspirations as set out in our ethical 
policy, a cornerstone of which is treating others as you expect to 
be treated yourself.
Our successful participation in Tesco’s Clubcard loyalty 
programme continued to thrive and during 2012 we remained the 
only cinema partner. During the year, we also became the 
exclusive cinema gift card partner with Morrison’s. These 
partnerships help to promote and reinforce Cineworld Cinemas 
brand profile nationally.
The Environment and Health and Safety
Being a multi-site business, the Group is conscious of its total 
energy consumption and the amount of waste materials 
generated, and is actively working to reduce both energy usage 
and the quantity of waste materials produced that cannot be 
recycled. During 2012, there was a continued focus on raising 
energy awareness at cinema sites with the aim to promote best 
practice and to reduce energy usage through better housekeeping 
and operating more efficiently.
Collectively all the measures undertaken by Cineworld Cinemas 
during 2012 to limit gas and electricity consumption reduced its 
carbon footprint across 78 comparable sites by 3.6% in 2011/12 
(2010/11: 5.5% across 73 sites). To continue the process during 
2013, seven sites have been selected for trial projects with 
remote energy building management systems and voltage 
optimisation with savings projected to be over 15% per site.
With over 47m customer visits, the safety and welfare of 
Cineworld’s customers, staff and contractors are of prime 
importance. Annual cinema audits covering Fire, Food and Health 
and Safety are undertaken on an unannounced basis in order to 
reflect the true operation of health and safety at each site. Overall, 
the continuous focus on health and safety in 2012 have resulted 
in further improvements in site standards compared to last year.
Key Trends and Factors Potentially Affecting the Future
The future success of the Group in 2013 will principally remain 
dependent on the strength of the film releases during the year. 
Sequels and franchises will continue to contribute a significant 
number of the higher profile blockbuster films. The “Harry Potter” 
series has ended but has been replaced with “The Hobbit” for the 
next two years. Similarly “The Twilight” series has been followed  18
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
by “The Hunger Games” as an alternative for the same female and 
teenage audience. Many such films outperform the original film or 
concept, so the film studios will continue to look to capitalise on 
proven successful formulae. The outstanding success of “Marvel 
Avengers Assemble” will provide further impetus to advance the 
related characters including “Iron Man”, “Thor”, “Captain America” 
and “The Hulk”. Resurrected past characters and franchises in 
2012 have proven successful such as “Men in Black 3” and 
“Spiderman”. The film release programme for 2013 includes an 
increased number of potential (albeit smaller) blockbusters with 
new and existing franchises and sequels. In the past, Cineworld 
has typically achieved a higher market share in such smaller 
blockbusters and mid range films than on the larger blockbusters 
such as “Harry Potter” and “Skyfall”.
While initial limited trials of video on demand have been 
unsuccessful in the past and with no notable trials conducted in 
2012, such initiatives are expected to continue, which may 
reopen the debate on the current theatrical release window in 
which new films are only shown in the cinema before being 
released via other media.
The non US markets for Hollywood film studios continue to grow 
faster than the US domestic market. The UK is an important 
market for the US studios and the natural link in the marketing 
chain of English language films. Increasingly blockbuster films are 
being filmed in more international locations and featuring more 
varied international cultures, which used to be confined to films 
such as “James Bond”, to help increase the appeal to audiences 
in the UK. Equally, the success of UK films such as the Bond 
franchise and the “The King’s Speech”, together with the stable 
level of cinema going in the UK should further encourage 
Hollywood to support both locally produced product and product 
that appeals to the UK and Irish market.
It is anticipated that 2013 overall will see a similar number of 3D 
films compared to 2012. Studios have also started to convert 
some older film titles to 3D, thereby adding to the range of 3D 
film choice. With completion of our conversion to digital projection 
in 2012, we are well placed to capitalise on this product. The 
price differential between 3D and 2D films is expected to continue 
and, should help support the overall revenue levels. Films based 
on action, fantasy and animation and appealing to an older 
teenage and young adult audience, such as “Marvel Avengers 
Assemble”, have had the highest take up of 3D whilst those which 
appealed to younger children tend to attract a lower proportion of 
3D business. However falling 3D production costs should help to 
ensure such films continue to be produced in the 3D format.
Results have shown that there are opportunities to serve 
customer demand for more specialist formats such as IMAX and 
D-Box and, whilst still in their infancy, films produced in High 
Frame Rate and 4K definition such as “The Hobbit: An 
Unexpected Journey” and “Skyfall” may gain in popularity in the 
future. All of which will encourage further investment.
Within alternative content, plays and opera will continue to 
provide solid business through established providers such as the 
New York Metropolitan Opera and the National Theatre. Otherwise 
the source of alternative content still remains fragmented. 
Stabilisation and consolidation amongst suppliers should 
increase the range of content, improve the operational delivery 
and result in financial savings. The completion of Cineworld 
Cinemas’ conversion to digital projection will improve utilisation of 
screens for a variety of non-feature film content and improve the 
ability to bring content to the screen in shorter time. Revenues 
from alternative content are anticipated to grow further, having 
grown significantly from 2011, albeit from a small base.
The general economic and consumer environment is expected to 
remain uncertain for the foreseeable future and will continue to 
present trading challenges. The higher ticket prices charged on 
3D films will invariably mean that some segments of the customer 
base will choose to see 2D for cost reasons. We expect that the 
strong mid week business enjoyed through “Bargain Tuesdays” 
and “Orange Wednesdays” promotions will continue.
Demand in the wider advertising industry is anticipated to remain 
challenging, which would be reflected in cinema screen 
advertising. However full digital conversion by DCM’s major 
exhibitor clients (Cineworld, Odeon and Vue) in 2012 is 
anticipated to improve DCM’s competitive position and support 
its objective of gaining a larger share of advertisers’ budgets 
especially retail, which is a sector largely unexploited in cinema 
advertising.
Finance for many continues to be challenging which could delay 
the development of new cinemas, though more developments are 
beginning to gain momentum. Nevertheless part of the Group’s 
strategy is to continue expanding our businesses, through 
acquisition and organically, aided by the Group’s strong financial 
position. The acquisition of Picturehouse provides a new and 
additional channel for expansion in the arthouse market under the 
Picturehouse brand and the existing pipeline of new multiplex 
cinemas is also increasing.
Cineworld will continue to offer a highly compelling choice within 
the wider range of entertainment and leisure activities. We believe 
going to the cinema remains one of the best value forms of 
popular entertainment and will continue to attract audiences who 
seek quality film product and where the immersive viewing 
experience remains unmatched by any other media.
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
Ofﬁcers’ Business Review  
 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
19
Improving our retail offer
In March 2012 Cineworld launched their first licensed coffee shop in 
partnership with Starbucks at Cineworld Sheffield. This is a very busy 
site on our circuit with over 20 screens. Delivered on time and to 
budget, the resulting offer immediately started trading well ahead 
of expectations at almost twice the forecast level. As a result, we 
opened a second Starbucks in Crawley in November 2012, again 
trading well ahead of expectations. 
 
The success of these sites shows the strength of the combination  
of high footfall cinema and a well-known coffee brand. We are 
currently working closely with Starbucks on the roll out of further 
stores and single counter service offers to increase the number  
of locations where Starbucks is available. Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
20
Delivering a great cinema experience
In October 2011, Cineworld signed their first contract for three IMAX 
screens within the estate to bring the world’s most immersive 
cinema experience to our customers. The first of these opened in 
December 2011 in Cineworld Edinburgh followed by Sheffield and 
Crawley in March 2012. All three quickly exceeded expectations with 
Sheffield being the most successful new IMAX screen globally in 
2012 (out of 122) and 17th overall out of over 700 screens in only  
ten months of trading! Following such success, we signed a further 
agreement for an additional five sites in Cineworld Birmingham, 
Enfield, Dublin, Nottingham and Ipswich, all of which opened 
successfully before the end of 2012 and are trading well. We are 
planning to bring the IMAX experience to more sites in the future.
8

 21
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
Ofﬁcers’ Business Review  

The following commentary on the profitability, cash flow and 
balance sheet focuses on the Cineworld Group including 
Picturehouse, except where stated.
EBITDA and Operating Proﬁt
Group EBITDA was up 6.0% at £67.1m (2011: £63.3m) and was 
achieved through higher revenues. Virtual print fee income was 
higher than the previous year with more digital prints being shown 
due to more digital projectors installed (the conversion having 
been completed during the year) which in turn helped to increase 
the number of film titles played. These were offset by an increase 
in film hire costs on box office revenues due to the mix of film 
product, lower sales of 3D glasses and the removal of the 
booking fees in the Cineworld cinemas. In addition there were 
higher energy and property costs as well as general increases in 
other operating costs. Operating profit at £44.2m was 3.8% 
higher (2011: £42.6m).
Operating profit included a number of non-recurring and non-trade 
related costs. There were transaction and reorganisation costs of 
£1.1m which related to the Picturehouse acquisition. The charge 
of £1.6m under onerous leases and other non-recurring charges 
comprised charges to onerous lease provisions due to changes in 
future trading assumptions. An asset impairment review resulted 
in £0.3m asset write downs at weaker performing cinemas. Other 
non-recurring income relates to a credit of £2.0m in respect of 
VAT reclaims, and there was a £0.4m charge in respect to 
changes to technical assumptions in valuing the defined benefit 
pension scheme.
The total depreciation and amortisation charge (included in 
administrative expenses) in the period of £21.5m was higher than 
last year (2011: £18.9m), reflecting the higher expenditure on 
digital projectors to date and £0.8m of accelerated depreciation 
of replaced assets.
Finance Costs
The net financing costs of £5.6m were markedly lower than prior 
year of £9.2m. The overall charge included £1.0m credit on the 
expiry of one of three interest rate swaps in May which 
necessitated a reclassification of the closing derivative value from 
equity to the income statement. The expiry of the swap also 
resulted in a lower overall interest rate going forward and, 
together with proactive cash management during the year, 
produced a reduced interest expense of £8.2m compared with 
the prior year of £9.7m. The financial expenses comprised of 
£4.9m in relation to interest on the bank loans and the balance of 
the financial expenses were non cash amounts arising from the 
amortisation of financing costs, the unwinding of discount on 
onerous leases, the pension scheme and from the finance lease. 
The financial income of £1.6m reported in 2012 and 2011 was 
primarily from the actuarial valuation of the returns on the defined 
benefit pension plan assets.
Financial Performance
52 week period ended  
27 December 2012
52 week period  
ended 
29 December 
2011  
Total
Group  
Total
 Picturehouse
2
 
 Total
Cineworld  
Total
Admissions 48.0m 0.2m 47.8m 48.3m
£m £m £m £m
Box office 252.6 1.0 251.6 242.1
Retail 82.8 0.5 82.3 81.6
Other 23.3 1.0 22.3 24.3
Total revenue 358.7 2.5 356.2 348.0
EBITDA
1
67.1 0.5 66.6 63.3
Operating profit 44.2 42.6
Financial income 1.6 1.6
Financial expenses (8.2) (9.7)
Net change in fair value of cashflow hedge reclassified from equity 1.0 (1.1)
Net financing costs (5.6) (9.2)
Share of loss from joint venture (0.1) –
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 38.5 33.4
Tax on profit on ordinary activities (10.8) (9.5)
Profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company 27.7 23.9
1 EBITDA is defined as operating profit before depreciation, impairments, reversals of impairments and amortisation, onerous lease and other non-recurring or non-cash 
property charges, transaction, pensions, refinancing and reorganisation costs.
2 Picturehouse results consolidated for 22 days covering 6 December 2012 to 27 December 2012. 22
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive and Chief Financial  
Ofﬁcers’ Business Review  

Earnings
Overall profit on ordinary activities before tax was £38.5m, 15.3% 
higher than 2011 of £33.4m. Basic diluted earnings per share 
amounted to 19.1p (2011: 16.7p). Taking account of the one-off, 
non trade related items described above, totalling £3.2m and the 
credit of £1.0m relating to the expiry of an interest rate swap 
(included in net financing costs), the adjusted pro-forma diluted 
earnings per share were 21.2p (using a normalised tax rate of 
24.5%) compared with 2011 of 19.2p. The weighted average 
number of shares in issue in 2012 was 143.1m including 
7,270,575 shares issued during the year.
Taxation
The overall tax charge was £10.8m giving an overall effective tax 
rate of 28.0% for the year (2011: 28.4%) which reflects the 
declining trend of the headline corporation tax rate. The 
corporation tax charge in respect of the current year was £10.0m. 
There was a credit of £0.6m relating to prior years, which was 
offset by £1.4m of deferred tax charges principally relating to 
capital allowances (the difference between the tax written down 
value of the capital allowance and the net book value of the 
underlying assets).
Cash Flow and Balance Sheet
The Group continued to be strongly cash generative at the 
operating level. Total cash generated from operations was 
£67.0m compared with £55.3m in 2011 primarily due to the 
better trading levels which also resulted in higher creditor levels 
at the end of 2012 compared with 2011.
The raising of £16.4m through the share issue helped to offset 
the cash paid for the acquisition of Picturehouse of £43.7m. Net 
cash spent on capital for the year was £31.1m. Included in this 
cash expenditure was £8.5m in relation to the purchase of digital 
projectors and £4.9m on IMAX, £8.8m on new systems 
implementation (including the replacement of the cinema point of 
sale system and upgrading automated ticket sales points), £6.6m 
on refurbishments and maintenance and £0.5m (net of £2.3m 
reverse premium) was spent on the new site in Aldershot. The 
balance of other capital expenditure of £1.8m was for equipment 
replacements and expenditure on various initiatives. The high 
level of internally generated cash has funded our entire capital 
expenditure whilst repaying term debt of £5m and paying 
dividends of £16.0m.
Net debt increased to £126.9m at the end of 2012 (2011: 
£101.4m) as a result of the net impact of drawing down of 
£32.3m from existing facilities to part fund the acquisition of 
Picturehouse, £3.9m acquired debt as a result of the acquisition 
offset by the £5m repayment of term debt.
Overall, net assets increased to £188.6m (2011: £160.3m). This 
includes the recognition of fair value of net assets acquired with 
Picturehouse totalling £24.1m and the residual goodwill 
recognised on acquisition of £19.6m. Due to the ongoing review 
by the Office of Fair Trading and the close proximity of the 
transaction to the year end, these values have been included on  
a provisional basis. The fair values are required to be finalised 
within 12 months of acquisition, with any adjustments to fair 
value being recognised in goodwill.
Dividends
The Directors are recommending to shareholders for approval a 
final dividend in respect of the period ended 27 December 2012 of 
8.0p per share, which taken together with the interim dividend of 
3.8p per share paid in October 2012, gives a total dividend in 
respect of 2012 of 11.8p per share, a 0.8p increase on the level 
in 2011. Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be 
paid on 4 July 2013 to shareholders on the register at 7 June 2013.
Board Changes
Tom McGrath has decided to step down at the Annual General 
Meeting on 15 May 2013 and not stand for re-election. He has been a 
Non-Executive Director since May 2005. Tom joined the Company 
prior to its listing in 2007 and has brought a breadth of knowledge 
and experience, particularly of the US film and cinema industry.
Rick Senat and Martina King have been appointed as additional 
members of the Nominations Committee and Rick will become 
Chairman when Tom steps down. Martina has also been appointed 
to the Audit Committee and Rick to the Remuneration Committee.
Current Trading and Outlook
The current financial year has started strongly. A good level of 
business carried over from the Christmas period with the main 
films being “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey” and “Life of Pi”. 
“Skyfall” also continued to play well in the New Year, given that it 
was released in late October. Trading at the beginning of the year 
also received a strong boost from the release of “Les Miserables” 
which has performed well. Films such as “Impossible”, “Wreck it 
Ralph”, “A Good Day to Die Hard” and “Django Unchained” have 
also helped to underpin the strong start.
There is a promising film release schedule for the remainder of 
2013 which we expect to complement our programming strategy, 
and in contrast to the previous year, there are no major events 
which are anticipated to provide a distraction for cinemagoers, 
with a more even spread of films across the year. Amongst those 
films planned for release are a number of proven franchises 
including “Star Trek: Into Darkness”, “The Hobbit Part 2”, “Man of 
Steel”, “Iron Man 3” and “The Hunger Games: Catching Fire”. This 
release schedule for the rest of the year together with other 
potential opportunities for the business means we are confident 
of our prospects in the year ahead.
Stephen Wiener   Philip Bowcock
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
7 March 2013 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
23
THE
ACADEMY
premiere management training
Developing our people, 
effectiveness and efﬁciencies
Cineworld’s people are crucial to the ongoing success of the 
business and the implementation of our ‘Customer First’ strategy. 
We aim to ensure that Cineworld is a great place to work and, in 
turn, a great place to watch ﬁlms. Market leading in-house training 
and succession programmes shows Cineworld’s commitment to 
developing its people and plays an important role in ensuring 
business continuity. Cineworld is proud that a high proportion of 
manager and supervisor positions are held by people who initially 
started at the entry levels in cinema. Apprenticeships, Succession 
Programmes and The Academy form part of a structure 
development programme across all levels of the business and 
means that, when vacancies arise, internal candidates are well 
placed to secure advancement resulting in a high internal 
promotion rate of 80% across all positions.
80%



 24
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Risks and Uncertainties
Availability and 
Performance of  
Film Content











Digital Conversion  
Cost Recovery








Alternative Media and 
Advancement of 
Technology















Film Piracy






 The following is a summary of the principal business specific risks 
and uncertainties facing the Group rather than all risks. If any of 
these risks or other unforeseen risks materialise, they could have 
a serious adverse effect on the Group’s business and its financial 
condition, in turn impacting upon the value of its securities in 
issue. Where possible and appropriate, the Group seeks to 
mitigate these risks and uncertainties.
Some factors which may mitigate particular risks and 
uncertainties are also set out below. In determining whether a risk 
is principal or not regard has been taken of the Group’s risk 
register, the probability of a particular risk crystallising and the 
impact it would have if it did.


 25
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Acquisitions 



Screen Advertising 
Revenue








Poor Location Selection 
and Construction




Extreme Weather 
Conditions




UK and Global Economy




Availability of Capital







Competition








Failure of IT Systems and 
Data Controls




Government Regulations 
and Actions





 26
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate Responsibility
The Board is committed to ensuring that an appropriate standard 
of corporate governance is maintained throughout the Group. This 
commitment includes recognition by the Group of the importance 
of taking into account its corporate social responsibilities (“CSR”) 
in operating the business. In this context, Cineworld seeks to 
integrate CSR considerations relating particularly to social, 
ethical, health and safety, and environmental issues in its day to 
day operations. The Board acknowledges its duty to ensure the 
Group conducts its activities responsibly and with proper regard 
for all its stakeholders including employees, shareholders, 
business partners, suppliers and local communities. Further 
information in respect of the Group’s activities is set out below 
together with illustrative examples. As City Screen Limited and its 
subsidiaries (“Picturehouse”) was only part of the Cineworld 
Group for a short period at the end of the year, this section 
principally relates to Cineworld Cinemas.
Cineworld Cinemas
Community
Cineworld observes the British Board of Film Classification’s 
guidelines for film classification unless the local authority specifies 
otherwise; within this framework however, it seeks to show as 
wide a range of film product and other screen content as possible. 
Screenings are frequently driven by local communities and their 
wishes. For example, Cineworld was once again the number one 
exhibitor for Bollywood product in the UK during the period.
In addition, Cineworld has continued to show a wider range of film 
product than its main competitors including non-English language 
titles, smaller British releases and independent American 
productions. Cineworld has continued its successful screening of 
Polish films and has hosted UK premieres of Polish titles at its 
Haymarket and Hammersmith cinemas. It also partnered again 
with BAFTA on the annual ‘BAFTA Tour’, bringing back award 
winning films to the big screen at selected cinemas.
Cineworld has continued its commitment to alternative content in 
the form of live screenings from the Metropolitan Opera, the Royal 
Opera House and the National Theatre. Cineworld also showed a 
wide range of other cultural and sporting events such as “Andre 
Rieu, Home for Christmas”, “Westlife Celebration Day” and 
“Wimbledon” (in 3D). Screening such a wide range of content 
means that we attract a wider range of audiences into our 
cinemas and helps us distinguish ourselves in the marketplace 
from our principal competitors.
2012 saw Cineworld working again with various charities, local 
government and community groups. Activities included Cineworld 
supporting BBC’s Children in Need, running charity premieres of 
“Nativity 2” and working with Variety to run a number of morning 
screenings for schools. Undertaking such activities helps to 
establish and make the Cineworld brand better known in local 
communities.
Cineworld continued as a venue partner for several festivals 
including the Bradford International Film Festival, the Jameson 
Dublin Film Festival, and the Glasgow Film Festival and, after a 
break in 2011, Cineworld returned to its successful partnership 
with the Edinburgh International Film Festival hosting 50% of the 
festival screenings. This involvement helps to promote 
Cineworld’s brand through the wider film industry and increase 
awareness of the Cineworld brand in audiences that might not 
normally associate Cineworld with this kind of wider film based 
activity.
Access for All
Cineworld is keen to promote a ‘Movies for All’ policy for our 
Customers. Increasing accessibility results in local cinemas 
playing a fuller role in the communities in which they operate. On 
Saturday mornings we operate ‘Movies for Juniors’, where it is still 
possible for children to see films for £1. This price has not 
increased for over 16 years. During 2012, Movies for Juniors has 
also been extended to Sundays and weekdays during holiday 
periods at selected cinemas. Senior citizens and students 
continue to benefit from discounts at certain times of the day. 
Cineworld also subscribes to the Cinema Exhibitor Association 
(“CEA”) card scheme which allows registered disabled customers 
to be accompanied by a carer with them free of charge.
All new cinemas are designed to exceed current statutory 
requirements to provide buildings which are technically advanced, 
yet meet high operational standards in terms of public service, 
safety and accessibility. They are designed to remove physical 
features which can hinder the use of the facility by the less 
physically able, so that auditoriums are as accessible as possible 
given the restrictions of any particular location. The opportunity is 
also taken to enhance access within cinemas when they undergo 
major refurbishment as part of an ongoing programme of 
improvements.
Cineworld continues to support the CEA Disability Working Group 
and, internally, the business’s own Disability Focus Group meets 
regularly to review all aspects of disability access and the 
improvement in the services provided in this area. As a result of 
the continued work into disability access and awareness the 
industry received praise in the ‘Removing Barriers, Promoting 
Independence’ report from the action group “Trailblazers”. This 
year also saw the development of a cross-industry film called 
‘Welcoming Disabled Customers’. Developed in partnership with 
our colleagues across the industry and the CEA, the film provides 
a consistent approach to disability awareness training across all 
circuits. The film shows Cineworld’s commitment to working within 
the industry to ensure best practice when it comes to disability 
awareness and to providing the best possible cinema experience 
for all customers and it has now been incorporated into the two 
day cinema induction programme for all new starters.
As part of the process of improving further Cineworld’s offer to 
disabled customers, all Cineworld staff have received training in 
“Disability Awareness and Welcoming Disabled Customers” and, 
during 2012, it delivered in excess of 277,000 audio descriptive 
screenings (2011: 120,000), and over 11,000 subtitled 
screenings (2011: 10,000) and also launched autism screenings 
across 21 cinemas on a regular basis for the first time.


 27
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Film Piracy
With films being first released in cinemas, there remains a 
significant risk of piracy within the cinema industry. Cineworld 
continues to work closely with the CEA, The Federation Against 
Copyright Theft (“FACT”) and INFACT Ireland in order to help 
reduce and prevent film piracy. In line with Cineworld’s operational 
strategy, each cinema management team has a responsibility to 
ensure that they do everything reasonably practicable to protect 
the intellectual property rights of films and alternative content 
exhibited within the cinemas.
With the ever changing threat of evolving technologies and 
smaller undetectable recording devices, Cineworld seeks to 
mitigate this risk by constantly reviewing and developing its 
training programme, policies and procedures to ensure its staff 
are able to effectively prevent film piracy. Night vision technology 
is utilised throughout the circuit and there is an increased 
vigilance around high-profile vulnerable release titles. Pirate Eye, 
a specialist camera detection technology system, has been 
installed on trial at our cinema at The O2 and is in operation for 
special premieres and preview screenings.
At the annual FACT awards, a total of fourteen rewards were 
presented nationally to UK film exhibitors. Five of these rewards 
were presented to staff at Cineworld Cinemas in Aberdeen 
Queens Link, Leigh and Wandsworth for their efforts in detecting 
and preventing piracy.
Environment
Cineworld seeks to comply with all relevant environmental 
legislation and to operate in an environmentally sensitive manner. 
The Directors acknowledge the impact that the business has on 
the environment and seek to mitigate it. Often changes which 
help to mitigate our environmental impact also reduce our 
operating costs. For instance, in 2012, Cineworld working with 
one of its partners completed phase 1 of a “Print @ Home” 
project which means that approximately 750,000 promotional 
vouchers will be sent by email each year to customers rather than 
by post. In phase 2 (due to be completed in 2013), customers will 
no longer need to print out these vouchers and instead they will 
be scanned by cinema staff from customer’s smartphones.
Being a multi-site business, the Group is conscious of its total 
energy consumption and the amount of waste materials 
generated, and is actively working to reduce both energy usage 
and the quantity of waste materials produced that cannot be 
recycled. During 2012, there was a continued focus on raising 
energy awareness at cinema sites with the aim to promote best 
practice and to reduce energy usage through better housekeeping 
and operating more efficiently. Daily energy usage reports are now 
available to most cinemas and the results in turn are incorporated 
into energy performance league tables, daily energy exception 
reports and monthly site reporting. These reports enable sites to 
monitor energy in a more controlled approach helping to identify 
problem areas which can then be resolved to achieve further 
energy and cost savings. The installation of automated meter 
reading gas meters, which facilitate the energy usage reports, 
has now been completed at 73 Cineworld Cinema sites out of a 
total of 80 sites (2011: 72 out of 79).
As previously reported in 2011, a pilot energy efficiency project at 
the Cardiff cinema site succeeded in reducing carbon emissions 
at the site by over 15%. Based on the success of this project, six 
other cinema sites had similar works rolled out in late 2011. The 
energy consumption for these sites has been monitored during 
2012 resulting in the reductions of carbon emissions by up to 
21% at one site and an average across all six sites of 10.4%.
Collectively all the measures undertaken by Cineworld Cinemas 
during 2012 to limit gas and electricity consumption reduced its 
carbon footprint across 78 comparable sites by 3.6% in 2011/12 
(2010/11: 5.5% across 73 sites) and allowed the Group to benefit 
from considerable cost savings. To continue the process during 
2013, seven sites have been selected for trial projects with 
remote energy building management systems and voltage 
optimisation with savings projected to be over 15% per site. In 
addition there will also be renewed focus on water usage and 
conservation measures.
The conversion to digital technology was completed during the 
year and further reduced Cineworld’s environmental impact. The 
move away from 35mm celluloid prints has reduced the use of 
raw materials for the production of bulky prints using chemical 
processes, which ultimately are shredded as they are unable to  28
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
salted
1214
sweet
1256 5 407 5 407 407 219 5 40 07 7 5 407 407 407
* Healthier  option available
171 183 80 76
Capri-Sun 
orange
Capri-Sun 
apple Magic Stars * Popcorn
Family special
Exclusive to family ticket holders
£9.95
1x large 
popcorn
2x large  
soft drinks
2x 
munchboxes
++
Corporate Responsibility  

be recycled at the end of their relatively short life. In addition, the 
distribution of digital content through small hard drives or by 
satellite greatly reduces the delivery costs and associated carbon 
footprint. Satellite delivery removes the carbon impact almost 
completely and this year a growing number of films shown in 
Cineworld cinemas were distributed in this way.
3D technology has its own environmental challenges with the use 
of special disposable 3D glasses. In 2009, Cineworld altered its 
pricing structure from a premium for 3D films with “free” glasses 
to a smaller premium with customers being required to purchase 
glasses separately. This approach, which continues today, has 
significantly encouraged customers to retain their glasses for 
future use and, during 2012, on average around 50% of 
audiences for 3D films brought with them glasses obtained from 
previous visits (2011: 45%).
Retail
During 2012, Cineworld continued to review its approach to 
marketing its food and drinks offers in its cinemas and how to 
ensure it allowed its customers to make informed choices. We 
seek to provide the range of products our customers seek in a 
way that is responsible, takes account of alternative healthier 
options and reduces the impact on the environment.
In response to customer feedback following our Customer First 
philosophy, 2012 saw the introduction of a revised soft drinks 
offering with reduced sizes of these items accompanied by a 
reduction in price. The large, regular and small drink cup sizes 
were each reduced by between 27% and 31%.
A number of initiatives to help reduce waste have happened 
during the year. An example was where a change in Cineworld’s 
frozen carbonated drink supplier could have resulted in wasted 
branded stock on the date of switchover. By all involved taking a 
collaborative approach, a large residual stock of plastic cups was 
avoided by the old supplier agreeing to have their branding 
covered over by the new supplier’s which allowed us to use these 
cups rather than sending them direct to landfill.
A number of new promotional initiatives were also introduced to 
make the Cinema a more affordable and inclusive treat for 
differing customer segments. The value “Family” combination is 
now available across the majority of our cinemas on a permanent 
basis (rather than being offered in school holidays) and a new 
“Coffee and Muffin” combination for those customers who want 
an alternative to the traditional cinema snack and drinks offer.
Each time there is a requirement for a new or replacement 
contract, all proposed arrangements are carefully reviewed to 
ensure that they are not only commercially beneficial, but also 
appropriate account is taken of environmental considerations. For 
instance we opened of our first two Starbucks coffee shop at our 
Sheffield and Crawley cinemas in 2012 with further openings 
planned for 2013. While Starbucks highly recognised brand made 
them an attractive partner, their strong environmental credentials 
played a significant part in the decision to roll out their coffee offer.
Our People
Cineworld’s people remain crucial to ensuring the ongoing 
success of the business. All of our human resources initiatives 
are aimed at ensuring Cineworld is a great place to work and in 
turn, a great place to watch films. Once again, 2012 saw a 
considerable investment in a number of initiatives aimed at 
ensuring individuals are developed and supported in reaching 
their full potential and are able to play a full part in the teams in 
which they work. Training also helps staff members feel part of 
the team and valued which is essential if they are to provide the 
services which customers expect.
Our Academy programme for high potential managers has been 
expanded and Cineworld now offers employees the chance to 
study for qualifications at levels 5 and 7 accredited by the 
Institute of Leadership and Management (“ILM”). For team 
members and supervisors, established internal succession 
programmes identify and develop talent for the next role in the 
business. The Team Member Succession Programme lasts six 
months, has a succession rate of 95% and develops people up to 
the level of supervisor. The Supervisor Succession Programme 
has a succession rate of 80%, lasts nine months and develops 
people up to the level of Operations Manager. Cineworld also 
remains committed to apprenticeships and last year saw 56 
employees achieve either intermediate or advanced level 
apprenticeships with a further 90 on the programme at the end of 
the year.

 29
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Apprenticeships, the Succession Programmes and The Academy 
form part of a structure development programme across all levels 
of the business which are all key to developing talent in essential 
areas of our business and means that when vacancies arise 
internal candidates are well placed to secure advancement and 
Cineworld does not lose any of its most talented people ensuring 
the ongoing success of its business. It has also resulted in a high 
internal promotion rate of 80% across all positions.
In addition to the regular and ongoing “core courses” which give 
continual learning opportunities to all our managers, the business 
rolls out specialist training. This year saw 100 senior managers 
being undertaking the “Speed of Trust” training programme. The 
course, which identifies trust as one of the key leadership 
competencies vital for business leaders today, helped to underpin 
the wider Customer First strategy of creating a trusting and 
empowered culture at all levels of the organisation.
2012 saw the launch of our first ever all employee engagement 
survey ‘Have Your Say’. A number of our people from all levels 
within the business had the opportunity to complete the survey and 
feedback their comments. Subsequently, a cross functional project 
team was formed to generate ideas to ensure that we continuously 
improve our employment offer and ways of working. As a result a 
number of people initiatives have been rolled out in 2012:
 we have launched a flexible benefits package meaning that  
our people can select and enjoy a range of benefits at 
discounted rates;
 we have totally redesigned and re-launched the Cineworld 
intranet to ensure that we are working with our people in the 
most effective way and providing them with a good source of 
information; and
 we have established quarterly all employee briefings which 
provides senior management with an opportunity to update the 
teams about the direction the business is going in, our 
performance and other business initiatives whilst also 
providing an opportunity for questions and answers.
All employees throughout the Group participate in the success of 
Cineworld through bonus schemes and Cineworld is proud that for 
the 18th consecutive year bonuses were paid to all qualifying 
staff in 2012. Performance ratings were linked directly to 
individuals’ bonus awards – this helps ensure that everyone is 
recognised and rewarded for their individual contribution to the 
business. To ensure that we continue to develop our people and 
support their career progression, we have refined our approach to 
performance management to ensure the focus remains on good 
quality conversations and the outputs directly link to individual’s 
development plans as well as their bonus entitlement.
Cineworld is also committed to increasing the number of 
employees who hold shares in the Group. Following the previous 
successful operation of the SAYE Share Option Scheme, another 
invitation to staff to participate was made in 2012 with the result 
that over 340 staff members applied to participate and were 
granted options exercisable in three years’ time.
The Route to Success
Continuous Personal Development
Apprenticeships – Level 2 and 3
Foundation Academy
Team Member 
Succession
Continuous Personal Development  
Internal Training Courses
GM Professional Development  
Yearly event courses,  
Speed of trust
Supervisor 
Development 
Programme
Supervisor 
Succession
Managers’ 
Training 
Programme
The Leadership 
Academy
ILM Level 5
GM  
Professional 
Development
The Masters 
Academy
ILM Level 7 30
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate Responsibility  




Safety
The ongoing management of the day to day health, safety and 
welfare of Cineworld’s customers, employees and contractors is 
of major importance with over 46m customer visits a year. 
Cineworld have continued to build on last year’s advances in the 
effective management of our health and safety obligations and 
our duty of care to our customers and staff.
During the 2011/2012 period, Cineworld has initiated a complete 
review of its health and safety operations including audit 
processes, fire risk assessments and associated documentation 
to ensure that our model is scalable in line with forecast growth 
within the Group. All Cineworld Cinemas were also subject to a 
Fire, Food and Health and Safety Audit which were conducted on 
an unannounced basis by our external consultants as in previous 
years. Sites achieved an average score of 93% (with 85% being 
considered the acceptable level of performance) and, in doing so, 
have continued to make good progress compared to the previous 
year with the average score increasing by 3% overall.
For the first time in its history, every Cineworld Cinema site within 
the Group scored above the 85% threshold which shows that the 
processes and procedures put in place over the last few years are 
achieving the desired results of making Cineworld Cinemas as 
safe an environment as possible for both staff and customers 
alike. Notwithstanding this performance, regular monthly 
compliance monitoring continues to be undertaken at all sites to 
ensure that standards remain high.
Diversity
Cineworld is an equal opportunity employer and seeks to recruit, 
retain and promote staff on the basis of their qualifications, skills, 
aptitude and attitude. A wide range of applicants are encouraged 
to apply for all roles. In employment related decisions, the 
business complies with all relevant legislation including that 
specifically targeted at preventing discrimination and such 
principles are embedded through the business by requisite 
policies.
Picturehouse
Picturehouse works at every level to respect the well being and 
safety of its staff and its customers. Its policy is to decentralise 
authority and responsibility to its individual cinemas and to guide, 
check and monitor the effectiveness of this through provision of 
guidelines from its head office for implementation by the people 
on site. A rolling programme of audit and compliance processes 
covering all areas of safety, customer care and financial accuracy 
checks and controls the effectiveness of the implementation.
We place ourselves at the heart of the community. The cinemas 
are in town and city centre sites and aim to make the fullest use 
of public transport and we have many partnerships with local 
retailers which encourage customers to spend locally, helping 
keep town centres alive and this is central to our development 
policy. The business also strives to build architecturally attractive 
venues that make a contribution to their urban environment.
Picturehouse are strong supporters of independent films. 
A programme of arthouse and world cinema is at the core of our 
programming policy. The cinemas actively support smaller films 
and documentaries though the “Discover Tuesdays” slot and 
through a multitude of one-off screenings. The cinemas also 
support numerous film festivals including the Cambridge Film 
Festival, Human Rights Watch Festival, London Film Festival, 
Lesbian and Gay Film Festival, Kurdish Film Festival and 
many others.
We pioneered “Alternative Content” screenings in the UK and 
have been responsible for outreach work across the arts by 
screening opera, theatre, ballet and literary events live by satellite 
to cinemas across the independent sector – creating substantial 
audiences whose needs had not been previously met and who 
now contribute to the sustainability of many independent 
cinemas. Picturehouse also created Parent and Baby screenings 
and Autism-friendly screenings, which are now regularly screened 
across the whole exhibition sector, and it works with local 
community groups and schools to provide opportunities to 
experience and learn about cinema.
As at 27 December 2012, the split between male and female members of staff at different levels of the business was as follows:
Cineworld Cinema Sites Head Ofﬁce
Team 
Members and 
Supervisors
Operations 
Managers
Deputy  
General 
Managers
General 
Managers
Head  
Office  
Staff
Middle  
Managers
Vice  
Presidents
Board of 
Directors
Male 54% 62% 63% 70% 58% 64% 87% 89%
Female 46% 38% 37% 30% 42% 36% 13% 11% 31
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Picturehouse is a partner in the Cambridge Film Consortium which 
provides educational work across schools and colleges in the 
Cambridgeshire area. It also employs four education officers 
across the Group and supports the work of education officers 
employed by the Trust which is the landlord of its Norwich cinema. 
All this activity encourages cinema going and life long learning 
about film whilst also promoting the Picturehouse name and its 
cinemas to a broad ranging constituency.
Opportunities are provided at all cinemas for members of the 
community who cannot afford peak time prices to buy discounted 
tickets either on special days or for club screenings (e.g. Silver 
Screen). Picturehouse has always allowed customers who require 
a carer to bring the carer for free and in 2012 we introduced a 
free Carers Card which enables customers with disabilities to 
obtain a free carer’s ticket in-person, by telephone or online. The 
card looks similar to any other membership card and so as well 
as adding convenience, the customer’s privacy is respected. We 
have always striven to exceed the legal requirements to enable 
customers with disabilities to visit our cinemas.
Our published company values focus on our people. We aim to 
treat staff fairly and with respect, providing a good environment in 
which to work and this contributes to our aim of delivering 
excellent customer service with a strong emphasis on the 
individuality of the people and the service.
Picturehouse has supported the charity Plan for a number of 
years, principally through donating 10p for every bottle of water 
sold and through an annual fund raising event. This money is 
used to build wells in village communities in Niger, West Africa. In 
2012, a relay bicycle ride involving 61 cyclists travelling 1269 
miles from Aberdeen to Exeter linked all of the Picturehouse 
cinemas and contributed substantially to the £48,000 paid to 
PLAN by Picturehouse in 2012. Such activities not only benefit a 
good cause, but also help to bring together our cinema teams. 32
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Biographies
1 3
2 4
1. Anthony Bloom
Chairman – Age 74
Anthony Bloom joined the Board in October 2004 as Chairman and 
has served as Chairman of Cine-UK Limited since the business was 
founded in 1995. He was previously Chairman and Chief Executive of 
The Premier Group Limited (South Africa) and a director of Barclays 
Bank (South Africa). Mr Bloom holds Bachelor of Commerce and 
Bachelor of Law degrees from the University of Witwatersrand in 
South Africa and a Masters of Law degree from Harvard Law School. 
He was a Sloan Fellow at the Stanford Graduate School of Business. 
In 2002, Mr Bloom was awarded the degree of Doctor of Law (H.C.) by 
the University of Witwatersrand in recognition of his contribution 
towards the establishment of a non-racial society in South Africa.
2. Stephen Wiener
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer – Age 61
Stephen Wiener joined the Board in October 2004. He has 43 years’ 
experience in the cinema industry, starting in the US as an usher 
whilst a full time student, and rising through various roles culminating 
in Vice President for Cineplex Odeon in New York City. He then moved 
to Warner Bros Europe in 1991 to become Managing Director. In 
1995, he left to found Cine-UK Limited and developed the business 
into a chain of 34 cinemas before it was acquired by Blackstone in 
October 2004. At the time of the UGC acquisition, he was appointed 
Chief Executive Officer of the combined Group. He is also a Non-
Executive Director of Digital Cinema Media Limited, the screen 
advertising company 50% owned by Cineworld.
3. Peter Williams
Non-Executive Director – Age 59
Peter Williams joined the Board in May 2006. He is Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination 
Committees. He is the Senior Independent Director of ASOS plc and 
Sportech PLC; Chairman of both Erno Laszlo, a luxury skincare 
business based in New York, and, Without Prejudice, a men’s 
formalwear brand; a Non-Executive Director of Silverstone Holdings 
Limited and is a trustee of the Design Council. In the past, he has 
also served on the boards of the EMI group, Blacks Leisure Group plc, 
JJB Sports plc, GCap Media plc, and Capital Radio Group plc. In his 
executive career, he was Chief Executive at Alpha Group plc and prior 
to that Chief Executive of Selfridges plc where he also acted as Chief 
Financial Officer for over ten years. Mr Williams has a degree in 
Mathematics from Bristol University and is a chartered accountant.
4. Philip Bowcock
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer – Age 44
Philip Bowcock joined the Board in December 2011 as the Chief 
Financial Officer. His experience spans senior financial roles in 
property, retail and leisure industries, having acted as Financial 
Controller at Barratt Developments plc, Finance Director for Tesco’s 
UK property portfolio, Vice President of Finance at Hilton Group and 
latterly as Finance Director at Luminar Group Holdings plc. Mr 
Bowcock has a degree in Economic History and is a chartered 
management accountant. 33
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
5
6
7
8
5. Thomas McGrath
Non-Executive Director – Age 57
Thomas B. McGrath joined the Board in May 2005 and is Chairman of 
the Nomination Committee. Previously he was Chief Operating Officer 
of Viacom Entertainment Group and President of Time Warner 
International Broadcasting, prior to which he worked for Columbia 
Pictures. Mr McGrath is Senior Managing Director of Crossroads 
Media Inc., the co-owner of Key brand Entertainment, Inc. and is a 
Trustee of the New England Conservatory of Music and the American 
Repertory Theatre at Harvard University. Mr McGrath holds an MBA 
from Harvard University.
6. David Maloney
Non-Executive Director – Age 57
David Maloney joined the Board in May 2006. He is the Senior 
Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and a 
member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees. Mr 
Maloney is currently a Non-Executive Director of Enterprise Inns plc 
and Micro Focus International plc and the Chairman of Reed & 
Mackay Limited, Brandon Hire Limited and the Board of Trustees of 
Make A Wish Foundation (UK). Previously, he was the Chairman of 
Hoseasons Holdings Ltd, a Director of Virgin Mobile Holdings (UK) plc, 
Ludorum plc and Carillion plc and held a number of senior positions, 
including Chief Financial Officer for Le Meridien Hotels & Resorts, 
Thomson Travel Group plc and Avis Europe plc. Mr Maloney holds a 
degree in Economics from Heriot Watt University, Edinburgh and is a 
fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
7. Martina King
Non-Executive Director – Age 52
Martina King joined the Board in July 2010. She is a member of the 
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees. Martina is 
currently Managing Director of Featurespace and a Non-Executive 
Director of Capita Plc and Debenhams Plc. Previous roles include 
Managing Director of Capital Radio PLC and MD of Yahoo! UK and 
Europe.
8. Eric (Rick) Senat
Non-Executive Director – Age 63
Rick Senat joined the Board in July 2010 and is a member of the 
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees. He has over 40 
years’ experience of the film industry. Rick joined Warner Bros in 
1976, becoming its Senior Vice-President for Business Affairs in 
Europe. Among the projects with which he was closely associated are 
the “Harry Potter” films, “Greystoke”, “Batman”, “Superman” and 
many more. He retired from Warner Bros after 25 years’ service. He 
was a Director of the legendary and recently revived film company 
Hammer Film Productions, and has served as Vice Chair of the British 
Film Institute. Currently, he is a partner in the Blair Partnership – a 
literary agency, a Non-Executive Director of Pottermore Limited and 
Bank Leumi (UK) plc and Chairman of the London Film Museum. Mr 
Senat is a graduate of University College London and a solicitor. Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
34
Directors’ Report
Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”)
The Board of Directors and executive management receive a wide 
range of management information. The following are the principal 
measures of achievement that are reviewed on a regular basis to 
monitor the development of the Group:
Admissions
This measure is the ultimate driver of the business and primary 
indicator of business volume.
Box Ofﬁce Revenue
This measure represents the principal revenue stream of the 
Group and is used generally within the cinema industry as the 
measure of market share (as reported by Rentrak/EDI).
Average Ticket Price and Retail Spend per Customer
Average ticket price is calculated by dividing total net box office 
revenue by total admissions. It is a composite of the various 
pricing structures operated during the day and for different 
promotions for each cinema. Together with admissions this gives 
box office, which is the primary economic measurement for the 
industry. Retail spend per head is a measure of the value of the 
retail activity and our ability to generate other revenues directly 
from our customers. Both box office and retail measures are 
stated excluding VAT.
EBITDA
EBITDA (as defined on Note 1 to the financial statements) serves 
as a useful proxy for cash flows generated by operations and of 
the Group’s ability to finance its capital expenditure and pay 
dividends.
Results and Dividends
The results for the Group for the 52 week period ended 27 
December 2012 are presented under International Financial 
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the EU. The results 
for the period are set out in the Group Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income on page 53. The results for the parent 
company are drawn up under UK GAAP.
An interim dividend of 3.8p per share was paid on 5 October 
2012. The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 8.0p 
which, if approved by the shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting (“AGM”), will be paid on 4 July 2013 to shareholders on 
the register on 7 June 2013.
The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited 
financial statements for the 52 week period ended 27 December 
2012. The comparative period is for the 52 week period ended 
29 December 2011.
Principal Activity
The Company acts as an investment holding company for a group 
of companies whose principal activity is the operation of cinemas 
in the UK and Ireland for the exhibition of films and related retail 
activity. The Directors do not expect any change in the principal 
activity during the next financial period.
Strategy and Business Review
The strategy of the Group is set out on pages 8 to 11 and a 
review of its business and operations, including the acquisition of 
City Screen Limited and its subsidiaries (“Picturehouse”) and the 
main trends and factors likely to affect its future development and 
performance, is set out in the Chief Executive and Chief Financial 
Officers’ Business Review on pages 12 to 22. An explanation of 
the Group’s business model and an overview of the markets in 
which it operates are set out on pages 4 to 7.
Key performance indicators are set out below and the principal 
risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 24 and 25. 
Information about environmental, employee and community 
issues is set out in part below and also in the Corporate 
Responsibility (“CR”) section on pages 26 to 31.
The Strategy, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers’ 
Business Review, Risks and Uncertainties, the Group’s business 
model, overview of its markets and CR sections are incorporated 
by reference into this Directors’ Report. Certain statements in 
these sections are forward looking and so involve risk and 
uncertainty because they relate to events, and depend upon 
circumstances, that will occur in the future and therefore results 
and developments can differ materially from those anticipated. 
The forward looking statements reflect knowledge and information 
available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the 
Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward 
looking statements. Nothing in this Annual Report should be 
construed as a profit forecast.
To the extent it is material, the Group’s approach to the use of 
financial instruments in respect of its financial risk management 
objectives and its exposure to price, liquidity and cash flow risk is 
set out in Note 21 to the financial statements and are also 
incorporated in this report by reference.
Including Picturehouse Excluding Picturehouse Excluding Picturehouse
52 week period ended  
7 December 2012
52 week period ended 
27 December 2012
52 week period ended 
29 December 2011
Admissions 48.0m 47.8m 48.3m
Box Office Revenue £252.6m £251.6m £242.1m
Average ticket price £5.26 £5.26 £5.01
Retail spend per customer £1.73 £1.72 £1.69
EBITDA £67.1m £66.6m £63.3m Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
35
Financial Risk Management
The Board of Cineworld regularly reviews the financial 
requirements of the Group and the risks associated therewith. 
The Group does not use complicated financial instruments, and 
where financial instruments are used it is for reducing interest 
rate risk. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments 
for trading purposes. Group operations are primarily financed 
from retained earnings and bank borrowings (including an 
overdraft facility). Further details of Capital management are set 
out in Note 21. In addition to the primary financial instruments, 
the Group also has other financial instruments such as debtors 
and trade creditors that arise directly from the Group’s 
operations.
The Group considers the currency risk on consolidation of the 
assets and liabilities of its Irish subsidiary, Adelphi-Carlton 
Limited, to be of low materiality and no hedging is provided. The 
Group’s trade and operations are otherwise based in the UK.
The Group refinanced its bank loan in March 2011 and entered 
into a new five year facility agreement of £170m which was 
comprised of a £70m term loan and £100m revolving credit 
facility to replace its previous facilities of £165m. The whole term 
loan, an amount of £70m, was hedged in accordance with the 
terms of the facility agreement on a weighted average fixed rate 
of 4.6% whilst the revolving credit facility attracted a floating 
interest of LIBOR plus 1.95%. The Group has taken steps to 
ensure that the swap is accounted for as a hedge and that 
changes in its valuation are recognised through reserves. Further 
information is provided in Note 21 to the financial statements.
Directors and Directors’ Interests
Short biographical details of the Directors of the Company, who 
held office at the end of the period under review, are given on 
pages 32 and 33. There were no Board changes during the year.
On 31 January 2013, it was announced that: (i) Tom McGrath, 
a Non-Executive Director, had decided not to stand for re-election 
at the 2013 AGM and so will leave the Board on 15 May 2013, 
(ii) Martina King and Rick Senat had been appointed as additional 
members of the Nomination Committee and that Rick Senat will 
become the Chairman of the Committee when Tom McGrath, the 
present Chairman, retires at the AGM, (iii) Martina King had joined 
the Audit Committee, and (iv) Rick Senat had also joined the 
Remuneration Committee.
The Articles of Association (the “Articles”) require one third of the 
Directors to retire by rotation at the AGM and, being eligible, to 
offer themselves for re-election. In addition under the Articles, 
any Director appointed during the year must resign and stand for 
re-election at the next AGM. However, in accordance with best 
practice, all the Directors are offering themselves for re-election 
this year at the AGM with the exception of Tom McGrath. Following 
the Board evaluation process undertaken in November 2012, the 
Board is satisfied that each Director standing for election 
continues to show the necessary commitment and to be an 
effective member of the Board due to their skills, expertise and 
business acumen.
Details of the Directors’ interests in the issued share capital of 
the Company at the beginning and end of the year under review 
are set out on page 36. Details of the Directors’ remuneration 
and information on their service contracts are set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 50.
Details of the Directors’ interests in the ordinary shares of the 
Company arising under the Group’s Share and Option Schemes are 
set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 49 and 50. No rights 
to subscribe for shares in or debentures of Group companies were 
granted to any of the Directors or their immediate families, or 
exercised by them, during the financial period. None of the other 
Directors had any disclosable interest in the shares of Group 
companies and there have been no changes to Directors’ share 
interests between 27 December 2012 and the date of this report.
None of the Directors has a material interest in any contract of 
significance to which the parent company or a subsidiary was a 
party during the financial year, other than as disclosed above, in 
their service contracts or letters of appointment described on 
page 47 and 48 and in Note 24, Related Parties.
Conﬂicts of Interest
The Articles were amended at the 2008 AGM to permit the Board 
to consider, and if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a 
Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, 
with the interests of the Company. There is in place a formal 
system for the Board to consider authorising such conflicts 
whereby the Directors who have no interest in the matter decide 
whether to authorise the conflict. In deciding whether to authorise 
the conflict, the non-conflicted Directors are required to act in the 
way which they consider would be most likely to promote the 
success of the Company for the benefit of all shareholders and 
they may, and do, impose conditions to be attached to such 
authorisations. The Board believes that the arrangements for 
reporting and considering such conflicts operate effectively.
Share Capital and Control
The Company has only one class of share capital formed of 
ordinary shares. All shares forming part of the ordinary share 
capital have the same rights and each carries one vote. Details of 
the share capital, and changes in it over the period, are shown in 
Note 20 to the financial statements. There has been an increase 
in the issued share capital between 27 December 2012 and the 
date of this report as a result of the issue of 1,162 ordinary 
shares to satisfy options being exercised under the Cineworld 
Group Sharesave Scheme.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive Company 
reports and accounts, to attend and speak at General Meetings 
of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
There are no restrictions on transfers of, or limitations on the 
holding of, ordinary shares and there is also no requirement of 
any prior approval of any transfers other than those which may be 
applicable from time to time under existing laws or regulation or if 
a person with an interest in 0.25% of the issued share capital 
held in certificated form has been served with a disclosure notice 
and fails to respond with the required information concerning 
interests in that share capital. No ordinary shares carry any 
special rights with regard to control of the Company. There are no 
restrictions on voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares. 
The Company is not aware of any known agreements between 
shareholders that restrict the transfer of voting rights attached to 
ordinary shares.  Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
36
The Directors who held office at the end of the financial period had the following interests in the ordinary shares of the Company:
Ordinary shares  
held directly
Ordinary shares held by companies  
in which a Director has  
a beneficial interest
Director
27 December 
2012
29 December 
2011
27 December 
2012
29 December 
2011
Anthony Bloom – – 1,723,224
*
1,723,224
*
Philip Bowcock 10,000 – – –
Martina King 1,942 – – –
David Maloney 20,000 10,000 – –
Thomas McGrath 5,000 131,000 – –
Rick Senat 20,407 – – –
Stephen Wiener 1,939,589 1,746,430 – –
Peter Williams 40,000 20,000 – –
* Shares are held by a nominee for a Jersey based discretional trust, of which Mr Bloom is one of the potential beneficiaries.
Directors’ Report  
continued
The Company’s Articles set out the rules governing the 
appointment and replacement of Directors. In addition the 
Articles, together with English law, define the Board’s powers. 
Changes to the Articles must be approved by shareholders in 
accordance with the Articles themselves and legislation in force 
at the relevant time. Updated Articles were adopted at the 
Company’s AGM in May 2010 mainly to reflect the implementation 
of the final provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Major Shareholder Voting Arrangements
There are no special major shareholder voting arrangements.
Essential Contracts and Arrangements
The Group has a number of contractual agreements with its 
suppliers in support of its business. While the loss of some of 
these arrangements may cause temporary disruption, none on 
their own are considered essential to the business of the Group.
Change of Control
There are no significant agreements which take effect, alter or 
terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company 
except that under its current banking arrangements a change of 
control may trigger a right for lenders to require early repayment 
of all sums outstanding.
No Director or employee is contractually entitled to compensation 
for loss of office or employment as a result of a change in control; 
however, provisions in the Company’s share schemes may cause 
options or awards granted to employees to vest on a change of 
control.
Issue of New Shares and Purchase of Own Share
At the AGM held on 21 May 2012, shareholders gave authority for 
the allotment of shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 
£951,720 subject to certain conditions. This authority will expire 
on the earlier of the 2013 AGM and 20 August 2013. A total of 
6,855,457 shares have been issued under this authority. 
6,849,999 ordinary shares were issued on 7 December 2012 
and the proceeds used to repay borrowings incurred in connection
with the acquisition of Picturehouse. 6,401,020 ordinary shares 
were placed with institutional and certain other investors including 
some of the Directors and a further 448,979 ordinary shares were 
issued to Stephen Wiener and Lyn Goleby under separate share 
subscription agreements all at a price of £2.45. The closing market 
price of an ordinary share on 7 December 2012 was £2.58. In 
addition 5,458 ordinary shares have been issued in respect of 
the exercise of share options maturing under the Cineworld Group 
Sharesave Scheme. Details of the 6,855,457 ordinary shares 
issued in the period in this respect are set out in Note 20.
Also at the AGM held on 21 May 2012, shareholders gave 
authority for the purchase of up to 21,399,000 ordinary shares in 
the Company for cancellation or placing into treasury. No shares 
have been acquired under this authority.
The Board proposes to seek shareholder approval at the AGM to 
renew both the Company’s authority to issue new shares and its 
authority to purchase its own ordinary shares for cancellation or 
placing in treasury. Details of the proposed resolutions are set 
out in the Notice of AGM (the “AGM circular”) dispatched to 
shareholders with the Annual Report and Accounts (or notification 
of their availability).
Annual General Meeting
The Notice convening the AGM, to be held at The Cineworld 
Cinema, South Side Shopping Centre, Wandsworth High Street, 
London, SW18 4TF at 2.00pm on 15 May 2013, is contained in 
the AGM circular. Details of all the resolutions to be proposed are 
set out in the AGM circular.
Directors’ and Ofﬁcers’ Insurance and Indemnities
The Company maintains insurance cover for all Directors and 
Officers of Group companies against liabilities which may be 
incurred by them whilst acting as Directors and Officers. As at the 
date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the 
Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors as permitted by 
law and by the Articles against liabilities they may incur in the 
execution of their duties as Directors of the Company. Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
37
Substantial Shareholdings
At 27 December 2012, the Group had been notified, pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests in 
the voting rights of the Company. Notifications confirming a party’s interest has gone below the threshold notification level have not 
been included:
Voting Rights
% of Total 
Voting Rights
1
Nature of Holding
Parvus Asset Management (UK) LLP 17,310,599 11.57 See Note 2 below
Artemis Investment Management Limited 12,990,723 9.09 Direct interest
HSBC Holdings PLC 13,398,412 8.95 Direct and indirect interest
AXA Investment Managers S.A. 7,850,070 5.53 Not disclosed
Mawer Investment Management Limited 7,484,903 5.00 Direct interest
Rathbone Brothers PLC 7,294,800 5.11 Indirect interest
Ameriprise Financial Inc. 7,251,928 5.80 Indirect interest
Legal & General Group Plc 7,145,246 5.00 Direct and indirect interest
Royal London Asset Management Limited 4,887,024 3.42 Direct interest
Note 1: Percentages are stated as at the time of notification.
Note 2: Disclosed as an equity swap being a financial instrument with similar economic effect to a Qualifying Financial Instrument.
The following additional notifications were received in the period from 27 December 2012 up to 7 March 2013 (the last practical date 
to include such notifications).
Voting Rights
% of Total 
Voting Rights
1
Nature of Holding
Parvus Asset Management (UK) LLP 11,423,993 7.64 See Note 2 below
Artemis Investment Management Limited 7,471,903 4.99 Direct interest
Norges Bank 5,538,902 3.70 Direct interest
HSBC Holdings PLC Below Notifiable Threshold – Direct and indirect interest
Note 1: Percentages are stated as at the time of notification.
Note 2: Disclosed as an equity swap being a financial instrument with similar economic effect to a Qualifying Financial Instrument.
Political and Charitable Contributions
The Group’s policy, which it has followed, is to make no donations 
to political parties. During the year, the Group made charitable 
donations of £89,700 (2011: £39,500) to a variety of local and 
national charities in the UK. In addition the Group supported over 
50 film screenings on behalf of various charities in the year and 
responded to requests from charities and schools with over 
1,300 free tickets.
Payment of Suppliers
Cineworld Group plc, which holds the investments in the Group’s 
companies, does not trade itself and does not have suppliers as 
defined by the Companies Act 2006. The Directors believe, 
however, it would be helpful to give the disclosures on a 
consolidated basis. The Group seeks the best possible terms 
from suppliers appropriate to its business and in placing orders 
gives consideration to quality, delivery, price and terms of 
payment. The Group does not follow a specific payment code but 
has a policy to pay its suppliers in accordance with the specific 
terms agreed with each supplier. The average number of days’ 
payments to suppliers that were outstanding at 27 December 
2012 for the Group was 39 days (2011: 27 days).
Employees
The policy is to recruit, employ and develop staff on the basis of 
the suitability of their qualifications and experience, regardless of 
sex, marital status, race, nationality, age, sexual orientation or 
religion. It is Company policy to give full and fair consideration to 
applications for employment from disabled people, having regard 
to their particular abilities and aptitudes. Full consideration is 
given to continuing the employment of staff who become disabled, 
including considering them for other reasonable positions.
The health, welfare and development of the Group’s employees 
remain a priority. With the intent of attracting, recruiting, 
developing and retaining key employees, Cineworld maintains a 
number of policies and procedures for the benefit of its 
employees, which can be accessed by employees via the Human 
Resources department and via the Human Resources manual on 
the Company’s intranet. Continuing education, training and 
development are important to ensure the future success of the 
Group and employee development is encouraged through 
appropriate training. The Group supports individuals who wish to 
obtain appropriate further education qualifications and 
reimburses tuition fees up to a specified level.
Regular and open communication between management and 
employees is essential for motivating the workforce. Briefings are 
held regularly to provide updates on the Group’s business and to 
provide opportunity for questions and feedback. There was 
consultation with the Broadcasting Entertainment Cinematograph 
and Theatre Union (“BECTU”). The Company also maintains both 
an internet website which is freely accessible and an intranet site 
accessible to all head office employees and at all cinemas. Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
38
As highlighted in Note 16 to the financial statements, the Group 
meets its day to day working capital requirements through its 
bank facilities which consist of a five year facility of £170m, which 
comprises of a £70m term loan and £100m revolving facility. As 
at the period end, £60m of the term loan plus £64m of the 
revolving facility were drawn down. The current economic 
conditions create uncertainty particularly over (a) the level of 
demand for the Group’s products; and (b) the availability of bank 
finance in the foreseeable future.
The current bank facility is subject to two covenants: the ratio of 
EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to 
net finance charges. The Group’s forecasts and projections, 
taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading 
performance, show that the Group should be able to operate 
within the level of its current facility, including compliance with the 
bank facility covenants. The Group therefore continues to adopt 
the going concern basis.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the annual financial statements.
By order of the Board
R B Ray
Company Secretary
Cineworld Group plc
7 March 2013
Registered Office:  
Power Road Studios 
114 Power Road 
Chiswick 
London W4 5PY
Registered:  
England No: 5212407
Corporate Governance
Details of the Group’s Corporate Governance arrangements are 
set out in the Corporate Governance statement on pages 39 to 
43 which together with the Directors’ Remuneration Report and 
the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities form part of this 
Report together with any other parts cross referenced from it.
Corporate Responsibility
Cineworld recognises its responsibilities to the communities in 
which it operates and to operate in a way that respects the 
environment and people within those communities. Further 
details on its approach to such matters are set out in the 
Corporate Responsibility section on pages 26 to 31.
Signiﬁcant Events since the Year End
There were no significant events.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
Auditors are unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps 
that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s Auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc have confirmed that they are willing to continue in 
office and a resolution proposing their reappointment, at a fee to 
be agreed by the Directors, will be proposed at the AGM.
Funding and Liquidity
Information regarding the Group’s business activities, together 
with the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position is set out in the Chief Executive and 
Chief Financial Officers’ Business Review and the Risks and 
Uncertainties section on pages 12 to 25. The financial position of 
the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities 
are described in the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer’s 
Report on pages 12 to 22. In addition Note 21 to the financial 
statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management 
objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging 
activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Directors’ Report  
continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
39
independent. The names of the Directors at the year end together 
with their biographical details are set out on pages 32 and 33.
Under provision A3.1 and B1.1 of the Governance Code, Anthony 
Bloom, Chairman of the Company, was not considered by the 
Board to be independent as at the time of his appointment as 
Chairman of the Company he also served as chairman on the 
board of another company, Cine-UK Limited, within the Group and 
had held this position since its foundation in 1995. The Board 
considers that, although Anthony Bloom was not viewed as 
independent on appointment, his knowledge and understanding 
of the business are such as to justify him retaining the role as 
Chairman.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive 
Directors are set out in letters of appointment and are made 
available for inspection by any person at the Company’s 
registered office during normal business hours and will be 
available at the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”). Further details 
of the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and 
the service contracts of the Executive Directors can be found in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 44 and 50.
The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive
The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate. 
The division of responsibility between the Chairman of the Board, 
Anthony Bloom, and the Chief Executive Officer, Stephen Wiener, 
is clearly defined in writing.
The Chairman, together with the Chief Executive Officer, leads the 
Board in determination of its strategy having regard to the Group’s 
responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, employees and 
other stakeholders. The Chairman is responsible for organising 
the business of the Board ensuring its effectiveness and setting 
its agenda. The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of 
Non-Executive Directors and oversees the performance evaluation 
of the Board and he regularly discusses matters with the 
Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being 
present.
The Chairman performs a number of external roles, but the Board 
is satisfied that these are not such as to interfere with the 
performance of the Chairman’s duties to the Group.
The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the Group on a 
day to day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial 
and operational performance of the Group. He holds regular 
meetings with his Executive Team consisting of senior executives 
who assist him in this task.
Independent Directors and the Company Secretary
The Governance Code recommends that, in the case of smaller 
companies incorporated in England which are below the FTSE 
350, at least two non-executive members of the Board of 
Directors should be independent in character and judgement, and 
free from relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, 
or could appear to affect, their judgement.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
The Board is committed to ensuring that an appropriate standard 
of corporate governance is maintained throughout the Group. The 
principal governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the 
London Stock Exchange for the period covered by this statement 
are contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code published by 
the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010 (the “Governance 
Code”) and which is available on its website www.frc.org.uk. For 
the year ended 27 December 2012, the Board considers that the 
Company was compliant with the provisions of the Governance 
Code except that the Chairman did not meet the independence 
criteria on his appointment (Code Provision A3.1). Further details 
are set out below under the heading “Directors and Directors’ 
Independence”, otherwise this report explains how the Company 
has complied with the provisions of the Governance Code. The 
information required to be disclosed by the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules (“DTR”) 7.1 and 7.2 is set out in this 
statement except that information required by DTR 7.2.6 which is 
set out in the Directors’ Report on pages 34 to 38 and is 
incorporated in this statement by reference.
The Board
The Group is ultimately controlled by the Board of Directors of the 
Company. The Board is responsible for the overall leadership of 
the Group and for determining its long-term objectives and 
commercial strategy to create and deliver strong and sustainable 
financial performance to maintain and enhance shareholder 
value. In fulfilling its role, the Board ensures that necessary 
financial and other resources are available to enable the Group’s 
objectives to be met.
The Board meets regularly six times a year and also once for a 
strategy day. The meetings follow a formal agenda which includes 
matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board. The Board 
also meets, as and when necessary, to discuss and approve 
specific issues. All Directors receive notice of such meetings and 
are given the opportunity to comment on the issues being 
discussed if they are unable to attend the meeting.
A schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the 
Board has been agreed and adopted. These matters include: 
setting Group strategy; approving an annual budget and medium-
term forecasts; reviewing operational and financial performance; 
approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital 
expenditure; succession planning; approving appointments to the 
Board and of the Company Secretary, and approving policies 
relating to Directors’ remuneration and contracts.
The Board is supplied on a monthly basis with detailed 
management accounts and an overview of Group financial and 
operational information.
Directors and Directors’ Independence
During the year, the Board was composed of eight members, 
consisting of the Chairman, two Executive Directors and five 
Non-Executive Directors, all of whom were considered 
Corporate Governance  
Statement Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
40
responsibilities. The terms of reference of each of the Board’s 
three Committees are available on the website or from the 
Company Secretary.
Audit Committee
During the year, the Company’s Audit Committee comprised three 
independent Non-Executive Directors (namely David Maloney, Rick 
Senat and Peter Williams). It met four times during the year. Both 
David Maloney and Peter Williams are considered by the Board to 
have recent and relevant financial experience. The Company 
considers that it complied with the Governance Code throughout 
the year as it recommends that the Audit Committee of a smaller 
company which is below the FTSE 350 should comprise of at 
least two members who should both be independent Non-
Executive Directors, and at least one member should have recent 
and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its 
responsibility with regard to financial reporting, external and 
internal audits and controls, including:
 Monitoring the financial reporting process;
 Reviewing the Company’s annual financial statements;
 Reviewing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit work 
undertaken by external auditors;
 Advising on the appointment of external auditors; and
 Reviewing the level of risk and the effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal audit activities, internal controls and risk 
management systems.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual 
Report and Accounts and half-yearly reports remains with the 
Board.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial 
Officer, other senior executives, the internal auditors and the 
external auditors may be invited to attend meetings, but are not 
members. During the period, the main activities of the Audit 
Committee were:
 Monitoring the financial reporting process and reviewing the 
half-year and annual financial statements with particular 
reference to accounting policies, together with significant 
estimates and financial reporting judgements and the 
disclosures made therein;
 Reviewing the management representations made to the 
external auditors and the Company’s procedures to ensure all 
relevant information has been disclosed;
 Discussing any issues arising out of the interim review and full 
year audit with the external auditors (in the absence of 
management where appropriate);
 Reviewing the risk register and the measures implemented to 
mitigate the principal risks facing the Group;
 Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit 
function and the Group’s internal financial controls together 
with its broader internal controls and risk management 
systems;
 Considering the reports of Grant Thornton UK LLP review of 
specific areas of risk (following their appointment in November 
2008 to help implement a three year internal audit plan and 
their subsequent retention to focus on specific areas of risk);
 Making recommendations to the Board with regard to 
continuing the appointment and remuneration of the external 
The Board considers that Martina King, David Maloney, Thomas 
McGrath, Rick Senat and Peter Williams are all Independent 
Non-Executive Directors being independent of management and 
have no business relationship or other relationship which could 
interfere materially with the exercise of their judgement.
David Maloney has been appointed as the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director and he, together with Peter Williams, is 
available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact 
through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer 
or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which contact 
is inappropriate.
The independent Non-Executive Directors bring an objective view 
point and range of experience to the Company and ensure that no 
individual or group of individuals is able to dominate the Board’s 
decision making. They play a key role in reviewing proposals and 
providing constructive challenge generally and in particular in 
respect of strategy. They also ensure that appropriate standards 
are being maintained. All the Non-Executive Directors have 
access to independent legal advice subject to consulting with the 
Board and following the agreed procedure.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and supporting 
the Chairman and the Board on Corporate Governance matters, 
ensuring Board procedures are followed and facilitating the good 
information flow within the Board and the Board appointed 
Committees.
Professional Development and Performance Evaluation
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Board’s responsibilities 
include facilitating induction and professional development. Any 
new Director receives a comprehensive, formal and tailored 
induction into the Company’s operations. Appropriate training is 
provided to new Directors and is also available to other Directors 
as required.
During the year, a performance evaluation was carried out in 
respect of the Board, the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees and each individual Director including the Chairman. 
The process involved the completion of assessment 
questionnaires by each of the Directors and Committee Members. 
The results were then collated by the Company Secretary and a 
summary presented to the relevant Committee and the Board. 
The evaluation confirmed that overall the Board and Committee 
processes were working appropriately and the Directors including 
the Chairman were performing satisfactorily; however, there were 
a few matters identified where Directors felt that processes could 
be improved further in certain areas. As a consequence additional 
time has already been spent on, and more time in the future will 
be allocated to, particular strategic issues and succession 
planning below Board level.
Although Cineworld Group plc is not a FTSE 350 company, the 
Board has decided that in the 2013 financial year, the 
performance evaluation will be externally facilitated in accordance 
with the Governance Code.
Board Committees
In accordance with best practice, the Board has appointed a 
number of Committees, as set out below, to which certain Board 
functions have been delegated. Each of these Committees has 
formal written terms of reference which clearly define their 
Corporate Governance Statement  
continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
41
Board Diversity
While the Committee considered gender, nationality and cultural 
diversity all to be important when reviewing the composition of 
the Board and possible new appointees, it believes that the single 
most important factor is to identify, recruit and retain the people 
it considered, on merit, to be the best candidates for each 
particular role. It is not currently in favour of setting specific 
targets for Board representation to be achieved by particular 
dates. As part of the process of recruiting new Directors, it has 
agreed that candidates from a wide variety of backgrounds should 
be considered and, where reasonably possible, short lists should 
comprise of candidates of both sex.
Remuneration Committee
During the year, the Company’s Remuneration Committee 
comprised three Non-Executive Directors (namely Martina King, 
David Maloney and Peter Williams) and met four times during the 
year. The Company considers that it complied with the 
Governance Code which provides that the Remuneration 
Committee of a smaller company which is below the FTSE 350 
should consist of at least two members who are both 
independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in determining 
its responsibilities in relation to remuneration, including making 
recommendations to the Board on the Company’s policy on 
executive remuneration, determining the individual remuneration 
and benefits package of each of the Executive Directors and 
monitoring and approving the remuneration of senior management 
below Board level.
The Remuneration Committee appointed Towers Watson as an 
external adviser in November 2008 and again took advice from 
them during the year. Towers Watson have no other connection 
with the Group except as the actuary to the pension schemes of 
Adelphi-Carlton Limited, the Group’s operating company in Ireland.
The Chief Executive Officer is consulted on the remuneration 
packages of the other senior executives and attends discussions 
by invitation except when his own position is being discussed. 
Given the essential part remuneration plays in the success of the 
Group, the Chairman is also invited to attend meetings of the 
Committee and does so except when his own remuneration is 
being considered. The Committee does not deal with the fees 
paid to the Non-Executive Directors. The report of the 
Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 44 to 50.
Re-election
Under the Company’s Articles of Association, at each AGM each 
year one third of the Directors (or if their number is not three or a 
multiple of three, the nearest number to, but not less than one 
third) must retire by rotation and being eligible may stand for 
re-election. A Director must retire (and will be counted in the one 
third to retire) if he was last appointed or reappointed three years 
of more prior to the AGM or has served more than eight years as 
a Non-Executive Director (excluding as Chairman of the Board).
Although the Company is not a FTSE 350 company, all the 
Directors except Tom McGrath (and not just the one third required 
by the Articles) will be offering themselves for re-election at this 
year’s AGM reflecting current best practice for larger companies 
under the Governance Code. Biographical details of all the 
Directors are set on page 32 and 33.
auditor, overseeing the Company’s relations with the external 
auditor and monitoring the effectiveness of the audit process; 
and
 Reviewing its terms of reference and recommending changes 
to the Board.
The Committee also considers on an ongoing basis the 
independence of the external auditors and has established 
policies to consider the appropriateness or otherwise of 
appointing the external auditors to perform non-audit services. In 
particular, under its terms of reference, all non-audit fee work 
needs to be approved by the Committee if the value of such work 
is likely to be greater than £30,000. As detailed on page 38 the 
external auditors are KPMG, who have provided certain non-audit 
services to the Company, principally in respect of advice on 
taxation and merger and acquisition matters. The Committee is 
satisfied that such work was best undertaken by KPMG and their 
objectivity has not been impaired by reason of this further work. 
The Committee also reviewed and continues to oversee the 
whistleblowing arrangements which enable employees to raise 
concerns about improprieties in financial reporting and other 
matters on a confidential basis.
Nomination Committee
The Company’s Nomination Committee was comprised of three 
members, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors 
(namely Thomas McGrath, David Maloney and Peter Williams) and 
it met once during the financial year. The Company considers that 
it complies with the Governance Code, which provides that a 
majority of the members of the Nomination Committee should be 
independent Non-Executive Directors. Due to the importance that 
the Directors play in the success of the Group, the Chairman is 
invited to attend meetings, and does so, except when his own 
position is being discussed.
The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging its 
responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board. It is 
responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board, the size, structure and composition of 
the Board, retirements and appointments of additional and 
replacement Directors, the independence of Directors and makes 
appropriate recommendations to the Board on such matters. It is 
also responsible for ensuring that Directors have sufficient time 
to discharge their duties on appointment, and thereafter, with 
such matters being specifically addressed in the letters of 
appointment of the Non-Executive Directors.
During the year, the Committee reviewed its own performance, 
reviewed the structure of the Board and the three Committees 
and discussed succession issues. It also considered the 
development of key individuals just below Board level with the aim 
of ensuring that key talent was developed and retained within the 
Group.
After the year end and following Tom McGrath’s decision to stand 
down as a Director, the Committee recommended certain changes 
to membership of all three Committees. As a consequence on 
31 January 2013, it was announced that Martina King and Rick 
Senat had been appointed as additional members of the 
Nomination Committee and that Rick Senat would become the 
Chairman when Tom McGrath, the present Chairman, retired at the 
AGM. In addition Martina King had joined the Audit Committee and 
Rick Senat had joined the Remuneration Committee. Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
42
Attendance at Meetings
The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows:
Board (including 
strategy day)
Audit  
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Number of meetings in year 7441
 
Attended Attended Attended Attended
Director
Anthony Bloom 7
*
2
†
3
†
1
†
Philip Bowcock 7 n/a n/a n/a
Martina King 7 n/a 4 n/a
David Maloney 6 4
*
41
Thomas McGrath 5 n/a n/a 1
*
Rick Senat 7 4 n/a n/a
Stephen Wiener 7 n/a n/a n/a
Peter Williams 6 4 4
*
1
* Chairman of Board/Committee.
† Anthony Bloom attended these meetings by invitation.
Corporate Governance Statement  
continued
Investor Relations
The Directors value contact with the Company’s institutional and 
private investors. An Annual Report and Accounts is sent to all 
new shareholders and is otherwise made available to 
shareholders via the Company’s website unless they have 
specifically requested that a copy is sent to them. Presentations 
are given to shareholders and analysts following the 
announcement of the interim results and the preliminary 
announcement of the full year results. Interim management 
statements are issued twice each year in respect of the first and 
third quarters and, trading updates are issued as well in early 
January and late June immediately before the Company enters 
into its close period leading up to the interim and preliminary 
results announcement. In addition during 2012 an investor day 
was held for major shareholders and analysts.
Separate announcements of all material events are made as 
necessary. In addition to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer, who have regular contact with investors over 
such matters, Anthony Bloom (the Chairman), David Maloney 
(Senior Independent Director), and Peter Williams (an Independent 
Non-Executive Director) are available to meet with shareholders 
as, and when, required. Additionally, the Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Financial Officer provide focal points for shareholders’ 
enquiries and dialogue throughout the year. The whole Board is 
kept up to date at its regular meetings with the views of 
shareholders and analysts and it receives reports on changes in 
the Company’s share register and market movements.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and 
institutional investors and welcomes their participation. The 
Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit 
Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee 
are available at the AGM to answer questions, and that all 
Directors attend.
The Company’s website (www.cineworldplc.com) provides an 
overview of the business. Major Group announcements are 
available on the website and new announcements are published 
without delay. All major announcements are approved by the 
Chairman and Executive Directors and circulated to the Board 
prior to issue. The Group also has internal and external checks to 
guard against unauthorised release of information.
Internal Controls
The Board is responsible for maintaining an effective system of 
internal control that provides reasonable assurance that the 
Group’s assets are safeguarded and that material financial errors 
and irregularities are prevented or detected with a minimum of 
delay.
The Group has in place internal control and risk management 
arrangements in relation to the Group’s financial reporting 
processes and the preparation of its consolidated accounts. The 
arrangements include policies and procedures to ensure the 
maintenance of records which accurately and fairly reflect 
transactions to enable the preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards or 
UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, as appropriate, with 
reasonable assurance and that require reported data to be 
reviewed and reconciled, with appropriate monitoring internally 
and by the Audit Committee.
More generally the Directors are committed to implementing 
measures to ensure that there is an ongoing review of the 
effectiveness of the internal control system with procedures to 
capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in the case of 
those categorised by the Board as significant, that procedures 
exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy the 
failings.
The Board is satisfied that throughout the financial period in 
question such measures were in place throughout the Group and 
the Company fully complies with the requirements of the 
Governance Code in this regard.
The system of internal control manages rather than eliminates the 
risks to business objectives. In pursuing these objectives, internal 
controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material loss or misstatement of the financial statements. Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
43
 Business Continuity Plans for Head Office and each cinema 
being in place with components of the Head Office plan being 
reviewed and tested during the year.
 A specialist company conducting quarterly penetration testing 
on the Group’s IT networks.
 A whistle blowing policy being in place ensuring that members 
of staff who were concerned about impropriety, financial or 
otherwise, could raise such matters without fear of 
victimisation or reprisal.
Accountability, Audit and Financial
The Board is responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report 
and ensuring that the financial statements present a balanced 
assessment of the Group’s financial position and prospects. 
Responsibility is administered primarily by the Audit Committee, 
of which the terms of reference are referred to above.
A comprehensive budgeting system allows managers to submit 
detailed budgets which are reviewed and amended by the 
Executive Directors prior to submission to the Board for approval.
Human Resources
The Group endeavours to appoint employees with appropriate 
skills, knowledge and experience for the roles they undertake. 
The Group has a range of policies which are aimed at retaining 
and providing incentives for key staff. Objectives are set for 
departments and employees that are derived from the Group’s 
business objectives. The Group has a clear and well-understood 
organisational structure and each employee knows his or her line 
of accountability.
Insurance
It is not practical or possible to insure against every risk to the 
fullest extent. The Group has in place an insurance programme to 
help protect it against certain insurable risks. The portfolio of 
insurance policies is kept under regular review with its insurance 
broker to ensure that the policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
activities and exposures in light of cost, and the likelihood and 
magnitude of the risks involved.
By order of the Board
Anthony Bloom
Chairman
7 March 2013
Reflecting the Board’s commitment to the ongoing development 
of the Group’s system of risk management and internal control, 
Grant Thornton UK LLP, continued its appointment during the year, 
undertaking a number of specific reviews and reporting back to 
the Committee in the process making recommendations to help 
strengthen the risk management framework and internal control 
processes within the Group.
Under the Audit Committee’s terms of reference, it is tasked with 
reviewing the Company’s financial reporting and internal control 
procedures and to make recommendations to the Board in this 
area. Key elements of the Group’s risk management and internal 
control framework during 2012 were:
 The day to day involvement of executive members of the Board 
in all aspects of the business and their attendance at regular 
meetings with senior management, at which operational and 
financial performance and operational matters were reviewed. 
Financial performance was monitored and action taken 
through regular reporting to the Executive Directors and 
monthly reporting to the Board against annual budgets 
approved by the Board.
 The senior management team meeting to review current and 
future risks in their particular areas of responsibility and 
expertise and to confirm the current measures in place to 
mitigate those risks.
 An established organisational structure with clear lines of 
responsibility and reporting requirements. Capital investment 
and all revenue expenditure being regulated by a budgetary 
process and authorisation levels (manual and systems), with 
appraisals and post-investment and period end reviews. Policy 
manuals setting out agreed standards and control procedures 
which include human resources related policies, information 
technology and health and safety.
 An established internal audit function headed by an 
experienced internal auditor who had access to all areas of the 
cinema operations and prepared reports which were available 
to the Board and reported regularly to senior management and 
the Audit Committee.
 Reports from Grant Thornton following their reviews of specific 
areas of risk as part of their ongoing assistance with the 
Internal Audit programme.
 An independent external consultant conducting annual health 
and safety audits and reporting to the Group Health and Safety 
Committee (comprising of members of the senior management 
team meeting on a quarterly basis) and the Audit Committee.
 The external auditors providing a supplementary, independent 
and autonomous perspective on those areas of the internal 
control system, which they assess in the course of their work. 
Their findings were reported to both the Audit Committee and 
the Board.
 The Audit Committee reviewing the risk register, receiving 
reports on risk management and internal controls and 
monitoring the overall position and reviewing actions taken to 
address areas of weakness.
 Each cinema having its own risk register prepared by 
undertaking an annual review of all risks affecting the cinema 
and detailing the control measures in place to mitigate those 
risks with key controls being reviewed by the internal audit 
function. Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
44
Introduction
I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committee’s Report 
on Directors’ remuneration for 2012. It was another satisfactory 
year for Cineworld, with the Group delivering growth in revenues 
and profits enabling a 7.3% increase in the full year dividend to be 
made and executive remuneration decisions were made in this 
context.
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee 
and has been approved by the Board. It complies with Regulation 
11 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and also 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code. The report will be put to 
shareholders for approval at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting.
The Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”) requires the Auditors to 
report on certain parts of the report and to state whether, in their 
opinion, those parts of the report have been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Act. The report has therefore been divided 
into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
Remuneration Committee
The Company’s Remuneration Committee currently comprises 
four Non-Executive Directors who are all deemed to be 
independent. Rick Senat joined the Committee on 31 January 
2013, while Martina King, David Maloney and Peter Williams were 
members throughout the 2012 financial period. The Chairman of 
the Committee is Peter Williams and the Secretary of the 
Committee is the Company Secretary. The Committee met four 
times in the financial period and its terms of reference are 
available for inspection on the Company’s website (www.
cineworldplc.com) or on request from the Company Secretary.
The Remuneration Committee monitors and recommends to the 
Board for approval the structure and level of remuneration for 
each member of the Senior Management Team (“SMT”) including 
the Executive Directors. The Committee received advice from 
Towers Watson during the year in relation to the Company’s 
remuneration policy and its implementation. Towers Watson was 
appointed by the Remuneration Committee in November 2008. 
Towers Watson has no other connections with the Company 
except as the actuary to the pension scheme of Adelphi-Carlton 
Limited, the Group’s operating company in Ireland. The 
Committee also received assistance from the Chairman of the 
Company, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, 
the Head of Human Resources and the Company Secretary, 
although they do not participate in discussions relating to the 
setting of their own remuneration.
The objective of the Group’s remuneration policy is that all 
employees, including Executive Directors, should receive 
appropriate remuneration for their performance, responsibility, 
skills and experience. Remuneration packages are designed to 
enable the Group to attract and retain key employees by ensuring 
they are remunerated appropriately and competitively and that 
they are motivated to achieve the highest level of Group 
performance in line with the best interests of shareholders. To 
determine the elements and level of remuneration appropriate for 
each member of the SMT, the Committee considers benchmark 
remuneration data for selected comparable companies and seeks 
to ensure that fixed costs are no higher than market median, that 
an appropriately significant proportion of potential pay is 
performance-related and that total pay opportunity is consistent 
with appropriate superior levels of pay for superior performance. 
Currently, the expected value of the performance-related element 
of the Executive Directors’ packages is around 53% of total 
remuneration at the target performance level. A more detailed 
breakdown is provided in the chart below. The arrangements are 
reviewed on a regular basis.
CEO
CFO
Salary Target annual bonus Expected value of PSP
46% 31% 23%
23% 30% 47%
Remuneration Package
Executive Directors’ remuneration currently comprises an annual 
salary, a performance-related bonus, a share-based long-term 
incentive scheme, pension contributions and other benefits.
Following a review in late 2009, the Remuneration Committee 
decided that, with effect from the 2011 financial year, bonus 
arrangements should be more heavily weighted towards longer 
term performance. From 2011 and thereafter, it was agreed that 
awards for Executive Directors under the Long-term Incentive Plan 
(“LTIP”) would be increased from a level equivalent to 50% in 
value of annual salary to 75% and then to 100%. With effect from 
the 2013 financial year and thereafter, the Remuneration 
Committee further agreed that the level of the Performance 
Related Bonus which pays out for target performance would be 
reduced, reflecting the potential greater benefit yielded by the 
higher LTIP awards starting to vest. This approach was taken to 
ensure a smooth transition from the previous to the new 
arrangements. The changes will be implemented fully for the 
2013 financial year for the Chief Executive Officer, and in the 
2014 financial year for the Chief Financial Officer as he joined 
part way through the transitional arrangements.
Directors’  
Remuneration Report Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
45
Annual Salary
Salaries are reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee. 
The Board approves the overall budget for employee salary 
increases and the Committee agrees the specific increases for 
the SMT. For members of the SMT below Board level, the 
Committee receives a recommendation from the Chief Executive 
Officer which it reviews and approves as appropriate. In 
determining appropriate salary levels for each Executive Director, 
the Committee considers both the nature and the status of the 
Company’s operations and the responsibilities, skills, experience 
and performance of the Executive Director. The Committee 
compares the Group’s remuneration packages for its Executive 
Directors and employees with those for directors and employees 
of similar seniority in companies whose activities are comparable 
with the Group. It also takes into account the progress made by 
the Group, contractual considerations and salary increases 
across the rest of the Group (which for the year were generally 
around 3%).
Performance-Related Bonus
The Executive Directors and all other employees participate in a 
performance-related bonus scheme. The level of bonus is based 
primarily on overall Group performance in meeting its primary 
financial objectives in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation (“EBITDA”). The Committee ensures that 
challenging and clearly-assessable targets are set for Executive 
Directors.
In prior years, Stephen Wiener was eligible for a bonus payable of 
up to 100% of salary on achievement by the Group of 95% to 
120% of full year budgeted EBITDA. The Finance Director was 
eligible for a bonus payable of up to 95% of salary on 
achievement by the Group of 95% to 120% of full year budgeted 
EBITDA. Bonuses were not payable unless a threshold of 95% of 
full year budgeted EBITDA was achieved.
For the 2012 financial year, the Remuneration Committee decided 
that a portion of bonus should be measured against personal 
performance as measured by agreed strategic objectives. The 
level of bonus was determined by a matrix of budgeted EBITDA 
and personal performance levels. No bonuses were payable 
unless a threshold of 95% of full year budgeted EBITDA was 
achieved. For “on-target” performance, the arrangement would 
result in the same level of payment as the previous 
arrangements. Stephen Wiener was eligible for a maximum bonus 
opportunity of 100% of base salary and Philip Bowcock was 
eligible for a maximum bonus opportunity of 95% of salary. The 
maximum bonus level would only have been payable if both 120% 
of full year budgeted EBITDA and exceptional performance against 
personal objectives was achieved.
Details of bonuses paid to Executive Directors for the year to 27 
December 2012 are included in the remuneration tables set out 
below. Bonuses are awarded wholly in cash and these reflected 
an EBITDA result between threshold and target coupled with an 
assessment of personal performance against the agreed 
strategic and other objectives.
For the 2013 financial year, in accordance with the plan to weight 
bonus arrangements more heavily towards longer term 
performance, the same arrangements as for 2012 will apply, 
however, for the Chief Executive Officer, levels of payout for 
threshold and on target performance have been reduced to reflect 
the potential increase in rewards under the LTIP along with the 
level of outperformance at which the maximum bonus is earned. 
As the Chief Financial Officer joined part way through the 
transitional arrangements, his performance related bonus 
opportunity for the 2013 financial year will remain at the same 
level as for the 2012 period with the reduced opportunity level 
coming into effect in the 2014 financial year. This deferral will 
ensure that his potential on target rewards for 2013 are not lower 
than the prior year.
The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan (“PSP”)
The PSP was implemented at IPO and the first grant of awards 
was made in March 2008 after the announcement of the 
Company’s results for the financial year ended 27 December 
2007. Further awards have been made in March each year after 
the announcement of the Company’s results for the preceding 
financial year. Only Executive Directors and members of the SMT, 
decided at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, 
participated in each grant. Details of the awards made to the 
Executive Directors are set out below. Non-Executive Directors, 
including the Chairman, are not eligible to participate in the PSP.
Under the PSP, either awards of conditional shares are made that 
vest after three years or nil cost options over shares are granted 
which become exercisable after three years. In both cases, 
awards are subject to continued employment and the 
achievement of specified performance conditions (“Awards”). The 
performance conditions applying to all Awards to the Executive 
Directors in each year are that:
 30% of the Awards will vest if the average annual growth in 
earnings per share (“EPS”)
*
 (calculated by comparing the EPS 
for the last financial year prior to the date of grant and the EPS 
for the financial year ending three years later) is not less than 
3.2%.
 100% of the Awards will vest if the average annual growth in 
EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the last financial 
year prior to the date of grant and the EPS for the financial year 
ending three years later) is at least 9.2%.
 Where the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by 
comparing the EPS for the last financial year prior to the date 
of grant and the EPS for the financial year ending three years 
later) is between the two limits above, the Awards shall vest on 
a straight-line basis between 30% and 100%.
* EPS is defined as the adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share as 
calculated in Note 5 to the financial statements. Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
46
In the past total shareholder return has been considered as an 
alternative or additional performance measure, but difficulties in 
identifying appropriate comparator companies has resulted in the 
Committee deciding to use EPS as the sole performance 
measure. The Remuneration Committee reviews the operation of 
the PSP each year and the performance conditions for each grant 
to ensure they are appropriate for the Company and the prevailing 
internal and external expectations. 
For grants in 2013, the Remuneration Committee has concluded 
that EPS once again remains the most appropriate performance 
measure but has decided to revise the performance condition to 
reflect performance expectations of the Group:
 30% of the shares under the Award will vest if the compound 
annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the annual EPS 
for the financial year ending 27 December 2012 with the 
average annual EPS for the three financial years ending on or 
around 30 December 2015) is not less than the annual 
compound increase in the UK Retail Prices Index (“RPI”) plus 
3% per annum compared and calculated for the same periods;
 100% of the shares under the Award will vest if the compound 
annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the annual EPS 
for the financial year ending 27 December 2012 with the 
average annual EPS for the three financial years ending on or 
around 30 December 2015) is at least equivalent to the 
annual compound increase in the UK RPI plus 8% per annum 
compared and calculated for the same periods; and 
 where the compound annual growth in EPS (calculated by 
comparing the annual EPS for the financial fear ending 
27 December 2012 with the average annual EPS for the three 
financial fears ending on or around 30 December 2015) is 
between the two limits specified in (a) and (b) above, the Award 
shall vest on a straight-line basis between 30% and 100%.
The conditions may be varied in exceptional circumstances 
following the grant of an award so as to achieve their original 
purpose, but not so as to make their achievement any more or 
less difficult to satisfy.
The maximum value of shares subject to an award to an individual 
in any financial year is 200% of annual base salary as at the award 
date. In line with past practice, the Remuneration Committee does 
not currently intend that awards to Executive Directors should 
exceed 100% of their base salary. If it is considering changing this 
approach, it will consult with key shareholders before doing so. 
On vesting, participants will also receive additional shares or a 
cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid 
on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring 
between grant and vesting.
The Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme 
(the “Sharesave Scheme”)
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Sharesave 
Scheme, which is an HM Revenue and Customs approved 
scheme open to all employees of nominated companies who have 
a minimum of three months’ service at the date of invitation. 
Under the Sharesave Scheme, employees are eligible to acquire 
shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the market 
value at grant if they agree to enter into a savings contract for a 
three-year period. Consistent with the relevant legislation, no 
performance conditions apply. Following an invitation made to all 
UK employees to participate in March 2012, options were granted 
to 343 employees over 689,881 shares on 19 April 2012. Details 
of the grants to, and changes in the interests of, the Executive 
Directors are set out below.
The Cineworld Group Company Share Option Plan (the “CSOP”)
The CSOP was approved by shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting (“AGM”) in 2010 and the first grant of awards was made 
in July 2010. A further set of awards have been made each 
subsequent year following the announcement of the Company’s 
results for the preceding financial year. Only Executive Directors 
and members of the SMT, decided at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee, participated in the grants which 
consisted solely of HM Revenue and Customs approved options. 
In 2012, each participant in the PSP had a proportional part of 
their PSP award replaced by a HM Revenue and Customs 
approved share option granted under the CSOP. Details of the 
awards to the Executive Directors under the CSOP are set out 
below which were subject to identical performance conditions to 
the 2012 PSP awards. By legislation, the maximum value of 
approved share options that may be granted to an individual is 
£30,000 and no unapproved share options under the CSOP have 
been granted at any point and there is currently no intention to 
grant any in the future. Non-Executive Directors, including the 
Chairman, are not eligible to participate in the CSOP.
Satisfaction of Share Options and Awards
Awards under the PSP, the Sharesave Scheme and the CSOP can 
be satisfied using either new issue shares or shares purchased  
in the market in conjunction with the Cineworld Group Employee 
Benefit Trust (the “Trust”), established by the Company on 
24 March 2006 with independent trustees based in Jersey. 
However, if new issue shares are used, the following limits 
will apply:
 In any ten year period, the number of shares which may be 
issued under the PSP and under any other executive share or 
option scheme established by the Company may not exceed 
5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from 
time to time.
 In any ten year period, the number of shares which may be 
issued under the PSP and under any employees’ share or 
option scheme established by the Company may not exceed 
10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from 
time to time.
Share Retention Policy
A share retention policy exists under which each Executive 
Director is expected to build up over a period of time and then 
retain a holding in shares equal to 100% of his salary. As part of 
the process, he is expected to retain 50% of any shares he 
acquires under the Performance Share Plan or on the exercise of 
options, after allowing for the sale of shares to pay tax, until such 
time as he has built up such a holding.
Details on current holdings of all the Directors are shown in the 
Directors’ Report on page 36.
Directors’ Remuneration Report  
continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
47
Performance Graph
The graph below compares the Company’s total shareholder 
return performance against the FTSE 250 and FTSE All Share 
Travel and Leisure indices since IPO in April 2007
*
. The 
Remuneration Committee believes these indices to be the most 
appropriate comparators as the Group looks to benchmark itself 
against smaller companies within the FTSE 250 and is a member 
of the FTSE All Share Travel and Leisure sector.
* Rebased to 170p
220
170
120
70
20
270
420
370
320
April 2007 Jan 2008 Sep 2008 Jun 2009 Feb 2010 Nov 2010 July 2011 Apr 2012 Dec 2012
Cineworld FTSE all share travel and leisure FTSE 250
The shares of the Company commenced trading on the London 
Stock Exchange on 26 April 2007 at an offer price of 170p per 
share. Admission became effective and unconditional dealings in 
the shares commenced on the London Stock Exchange on 
2 May 2007.
The mid-market closing price on 27 December 2012 was 
259.50p and the range during the period 30 December 2011 to 
27 December 2012 was 200.00p to 261.25p.
Pension Contributions
All employees, including Executive Directors, are invited to 
participate in a Group Personal Pension Plan which is a money 
purchase plan. All the major schemes operated by the Group are 
money purchase in nature and have no defined benefits. Two 
defined benefit schemes are operated in the UK and in Ireland and 
both have been closed to new members for a number of years. 
Details of these schemes are shown in Note 18 of the financial 
statements. The Group has no obligation to the pension scheme 
beyond the payment of contributions. The Company contributions 
for the Chief Executive Officer are 20% of salary. The Chief 
Financial Officer has elected not to participate in the Group 
Personal Pension Plan and instead receives a pension allowance 
equivalent to 20% of salary. Bonuses are not pensionable.
Other Beneﬁts
Benefits in kind for Executive Directors include the provision of a 
company car or car allowance, life insurance, permanent health 
insurance, private medical cover and, for the Chief Executive 
Officer only, a driver.
Executive Directors’ Contracts
The Group’s policy in entering into service contracts with 
Executive Directors is to enable the recruitment of high-quality 
executives and to obtain protection from their sudden departure, 
whether or not to competitor companies. In addition, service 
contracts are an important element in maintaining maximum 
protection for the Group’s intellectual property rights and other 
commercially sensitive information.
Both Executive Directors are, under the terms of their service 
contracts, entitled to an annual review of their base salary each 
year. In the case of the Chief Executive Officer, a minimum 
increase in line with the Retail Prices Index must be made.
The details of the Executive Directors’ contracts are summarised in the table below:
Director Date of contract Notice period
Stephen Wiener 23 April 2007 12 months
Philip Bowcock 16 November 2011 6 months Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
48
The Company may, in lieu of giving notice, terminate an Executive 
Director’s service contract by making a payment equivalent to 
95% (in the case of the Chief Executive Officer) and 100% (in the 
case of the Chief Financial Officer) of base salary and contractual 
benefits for the notice period. In this event the Director would not 
be entitled to any bonus for his notice period, but would be 
eligible for a pro-rata bonus for the period up to the date of the 
termination of his contract.
The Company’s policy is to endeavour to minimise any payment 
on early termination by insisting on mitigation of any loss where 
possible.
Non-Executive Directors’ Letters of Appointment
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, do not have 
service contracts with the Company. The terms and conditions of 
their appointment as Non-Executive Directors are set out in 
letters of appointment, which are subject to the provisions of the 
Articles of Association.
Non-Executive Directors receive fees for services as members of 
the Board and its Committees. The level of fees is determined by 
the Board after taking into account appropriate advice (except in 
the case of the Chairman whose level of fee is determined by the 
Remuneration Committee), and no Director participates in 
discussions relating to the setting of his or her own remuneration. 
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Group’s share 
incentives or otherwise receive performance-related pay. Where a 
Non-Executive Director does not serve until the end of his term, 
the policy is to pay the fees due pro rata to the date of cessation.
The appointment of each Non-Executive Director is terminable on 
the notice period stated below unless their appointment is 
terminated by a resolution of the shareholders in general meeting 
or if they fail to be re-elected by shareholders in general meeting 
in which case no notice is necessary.
Their appointments were made as follows:
Director Date of appointment Notice period
Anthony Bloom 7 October 2004 1 month
Martina King 2 July 2010 1 month
David Maloney 22 May 2006 1 month
Thomas McGrath 16 May 2005 1 month
Rick Senat 2 July 2010 1 month
Peter Williams 22 May 2006 1 month
AUDITED INFORMATION
Aggregated Directors’ Remuneration
The total amounts for Directors’ remuneration were as follows:
Emoluments
(i) Executive
Name of Director
2012 
Fees/Basic 
salary 
£000
2011 
Fees/Basic 
salary 
£000
2012 
Performance 
bonus 
£000
2011 
Performance 
bonus 
£000
2012 
Beneﬁts 
£000†
2011 
Benefits 
£000
2012 
Other 
Payments 
£000
2011 
Other 
Payments 
£000
2012 
Total 
£000
2011 
Total 
£000
2012 
Company 
contributions 
to money 
purchase 
pension 
schemes 
£000
2011 
Company 
contributions 
to money 
purchase 
pension 
schemes 
£000
2012 
Total 
including 
contribution 
to money 
purchase 
pension 
scheme 
£000
2011 
Total 
including 
contribution 
to money 
purchase 
pension 
scheme 
£000
Stephen Wiener 463
*
441 278 300 36 34 – – 777 775 93 88 870 863
Richard Jones
^
– 117 – 73
††
– 8 – 342
**
– 540 – 23 – 563
Philip Bowcock
^^
255
*
21 140 – 18 2 – – 413 23 51
***
4
***
464 27
718 579 418 373 54 44 0 342 1,190 1,338 144 115 1,334 1,453
* With effect from 1 July 2012, Stephen Wiener’s and Philip Bowcock’s salaries were increased by 3.6%.
† Other benefits include a company car or car allowance, life assurance, permanent health insurance, private medical cover and, for Stephen Wiener only, a driver.
^ Richard Jones left the Company on 17 June 2011.
†† Richard Jones received an annual bonus payment for 2011, but only for the period up to his leaving date of 17 June 2011 and not for the full year.
** Richard Jones was paid up to his leaving date on 17 June 2011. In accordance with his contract, on leaving, he received a one off payment of £258,000 principally 
representing 95% of his salary for his notice period and a one-off pension contribution of £50,000 was made on his behalf. He also retained the use of his company car 
and petrol card for the notice period valued at £11,000. In addition, he received a non-contractual payment of £23,000.
^^ Philip Bowcock joined the Company on 1 December 2011.
*** Philip Bowcock receives a pension allowance for this amount, but for the purposes of this disclosure it has been shown as a contribution to the pension scheme.
Directors’ Remuneration Report  
continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
49
(ii) Non-Executive
Name of Director
2012 
Fees/Basic salary 
£000
2012 
Reimbursement Of 
Travelling 
Expenses 
£000
2012 
Total 
£000
2011 
Fees/Basic salary 
£000
2011 
Reimbursement Of 
Travelling 
Expenses 
£000
2011 
Total 
£000
Anthony Bloom 100 – 100 100 – 100
Martina King 38 – 38 38 – 38
David Maloney 53 – 53 53 1 54
Thomas McGrath
*
38 38 76 38 46 84
Rick Senat 38 – 38 38 – 38
Matthew Tooth
**
––– 12 – 12
Peter Williams 53 – 53 53 – 53
320 38 358 332 47 379
* Prior to 6 January 2011, Thomas McGrath travel costs from the United States to attend the Cineworld Board meetings, including related subsistence, in the UK were 
covered by the tax relief provision under section 373 ITEPA 2003 for non-UK domiciled employees up until the expiry of the five year relief period in January 2011. There is 
an equivalent provision for such costs under the Social Security (contributions) Regulations 2001, Schedule 3S, Part VIII, which has also been assumed.
** Matthew Tooth’s Director’s fees were payable to the Blackstone Group. He resigned as a Director on 11 May 2011. No compensation was paid in respect of his departure.
There was no increase in the fees paid to the Chairman or the Non-Executive Directors during the year. The basic fee for a Non-
Executive Director was £33,000 p.a. An additional fee of £5,000 p.a. is paid for being a member of a particular committee. A further 
additional fee of £5,000 p.a. is paid to each of the Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees. The Non-Executive Directors 
do not receive any share options, bonuses or other performance-related payments nor do they receive any pension entitlement or other 
benefits.
Directors’ Share and Share Option Scheme Interests
Details of share options of those Directors who served during the period are as follows:
(a) Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme
Name of Director
At 30 Dec 
2011
Granted 
during year
Exercised 
during year
Lapsed 
during year
At 27 Dec 
2012 Exercise price
Market price 
at exercise Exercise period 
Stephen Wiener – 5,232 – – 5,232 £1.72 – 01/06/15–30/11/15
Philip Bowcock – 5,232 – – 5,232 £1.72 – 01/06/15–30/11/15
(b) Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan
Name of Director
At 30 Dec 
2011
Awarded 
during year
Vested  
during year
Lapsed 
during 
year
At 27 Dec 
2012
Exercise 
price
Market value 
at date of 
vesting
**
Vesting date or  
exercise period¶ Gain^^
Stephen Wiener 152,343
†
– 152,343 – – £Nil £2.185 26/03/12 £379,181
109,774
§
–– – 109,774 £Nil – 30/03/13–30/09/13
153,205
^
–– – 153,205 £Nil – 29/03/14–29/09/14
– 159,683
*
–– 159,683 £Nil – 26/03/15–26/09/15
Philip Bowcock – 87,500
*
–– 87,500 £Nil – 26/03/15–26/09/15
† Mid-market closing price of a Cineworld Group plc share the day before grant was £1.28.
§ Mid-market closing price of a Cineworld Group plc share the day before grant was £1.85.
^ Mid-market closing price of a Cineworld Group plc share the day before grant was £2.08.
* Mid-market closing price of a Cineworld Group plc share the day before grant was £2.13.
** The price on exercise is the mid-market closing price on the day of exercise. In practice Stephen Wiener’s award was settled totally by the issue of new shares.
¶ Subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions (details of which are set on page 45). The awards vesting during the year vested in full. Awards made during 
the last three years were granted as nil cost options rather than as conditional awards of shares as in the previous year.
^^ The gain has been calculated using the mid-market closing share price on the date of vesting and includes payment of a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would 
have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting. The dividend equivalent payments amounted to £46,312 
for Stephen Wiener. Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
50
(c) Cineworld Group Company Share Option Plan
Name of Director
At 30 Dec 
2011
Granted 
during year
Exercised 
during year
Lapsed 
during year
At 27 Dec 
2012 Exercise price
Earliest date  
of exercise† Expiry date
Stephen Wiener 5,050
*
––– 5,050 £1.98 01/07/13 30/06/20
4,801
*
––– 4,801 £2.08 29/03/14 28/02/21
– 4,694
*
4,694 £2.13 26/03/15 25/03/22
Philip Bowcock – 4,694
*
–– 4,694 £2.13 26/03/15 25/03/22
* HM Revenue and Customs approved share options.
† Subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions (details of which are set on page 45).
By order of the Board
Peter Williams
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
7 March 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report  
continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
51
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law 
they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and 
parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
 for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements; and
 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent 
company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to 
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as 
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
The Directors confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole, and
 the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers’ Review together with the Risks and Uncertainties section, which are incorporated in 
the Directors’ Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
On behalf of the Board
Philip Bowcock
Chief Financial Officer
7 March 2013
Statement of  
Directors’ Responsibilities
in respect of the Annual Report  
and the Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
52
We have audited the financial statements of Cineworld Group Plc for the 52 week period ended 27 December 2012 set out on pages 
53 to 95. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in 
an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 51, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and 
express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website  
at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate.
Opinion on Financial Statements
In our opinion:
 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 27 December 
2012 and of the Group’s profit for the 52 week period then ended;
 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
 the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice;
 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the 52 week period then ended for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements; and
 the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 39 to 43 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial 
statements.
Matters on which we are required to Report by Exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
 the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or
 certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 the Directors’ statement, set out on page 38, in relation to going concern;
 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 39 to 43 relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration.
Mark Summerﬁeld (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square 
London E14 5GL
7 March 2013
Independent  
Auditor’s Report
to the Members of Cineworld Group plc Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
53
Note
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£m
Revenue 2 358.7 348.0
Cost of sales (263.9) (261.5)
Gross proﬁt 94.8 86.5
Other operating income 3 0.3 0.4
Administrative expenses (50.9) (44.3)
Operating proﬁt 4 44.2 42.6
Analysed between:
Operating profit before depreciation, impairments, reversals of impairments and amortisation, onerous lease 
and other non-recurring or non-cash property charges, transaction and reorganisation costs, defined benefit 
pension scheme indexation gain, and refinancing costs 67.1 63.3
 Depreciation and amortisation 4 (21.5) (18.9)
 Onerous leases and other non-recurring charges 4 (1.6) 0.5
 Impairments and reversals of impairments 4 (0.3) –
 Other non-recurring income 4 2.0 –
 Transaction and reorganisation costs 4 (1.1) (3.9)
 Defined benefit pension scheme past service costs 18 (0.4) 1.7
 Refinancing costs – (0.1)
Finance income 7 1.6 1.6
Finance expenses 7 (8.2) (9.7)
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges reclassified from equity 1.0 (1.1)
Total finance expense (7.2) (10.8)
Net ﬁnance costs (5.6) (9.2)
Share of loss of jointly controlled entities using equity accounting method, net of tax (0.1) –
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before tax 38.5 33.4
Tax charge on profit on ordinary activities 8 (10.8) (9.5)
Proﬁt for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company 27.7 23.9
Other comprehensive income
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedge (0.1) (0.6)
Foreign exchange translation loss (0.5) –
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension schemes 1.0 (1.4)
Income tax on other comprehensive income (0.9) 1.0
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of income tax (0.5) (1.0)
Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company 27.2 22.9
Basic earnings per share 5 19.4p 16.8p
Diluted earnings per share 5 19.1p 16.7p
The Notes on pages 57 to 89 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated Statement  
of Comprehensive Income
for the Period Ended 27 December 2012 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
54
27 December 2012 29 December 2011
Note £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 10 160.0 124.3
Goodwill 11 236.7 217.1
Intangible assets 11 15.7 0.3
Investments in equity-accounted investee 12 0.7 0.8
Other receivables 15 1.4 1.4
Employee benefits 18 4.4 2.0
Deferred tax assets 13 9.9 12.0
Total non-current assets 428.8 357.9
Current assets
Inventories 14 3.8 2.1
Trade and other receivables 15 34.3 26.6
Cash and cash equivalents 10.9 5.5
Total current assets 49.0 34.2
Total assets 477.8 392.1
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans, borrowings and other financial liabilities 16 (8.1) (6.9)
Trade and other payables 17 (72.7) (52.9)
Current taxes payable (4.7) (4.8)
Provisions 19 (0.3) (2.3)
Total current liabilities (85.8) (66.9)
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans, borrowings and other financial liabilities 16 (129.7) (100.0)
Other payables 17 (53.3) (53.3)
Government grants (1.9) –
Provisions 19 (11.1) (9.3)
Deferred tax liabilities 13 (7.4) (2.3)
Total non-current liabilities (203.4) (164.9)
Total liabilities (289.2) (231.8)
Net assets 188.6 160.3
Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company
Share capital 20 1.5 1.4
Share premium 188.1 171.8
Translation reserves 20 1.3 1.8
Hedging reserves 20 (3.5) (3.4)
Retained earnings/(deficit) 1.2 (11.3)
Total equity 188.6 160.3
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 7 March 2013 and were signed on its behalf by:
Stephen Wiener Philip Bowcock
Director  Director
Consolidated Statement  
of Financial Position
at 27 December 2012 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
55
Issued 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Translation 
reserve 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
deficit 
£m
Total 
£m
Balance at 30 December 2010 1.4 171.4 1.8 (2.8) (19.8) 152.0
Proﬁt for the period –––– 23.9 23.9
Other comprehensive income
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedge – – – (0.6) – (0.6)
Retranslation of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries ––––––
Actuarial loss on defined benefit scheme – – – – (1.4) (1.4)
Tax recognised on income and expenses recognised directly 
in equity –––– 1.0 1.0
Total other comprehensive income – – – (0.6) (0.4) (1.0)
Contributions by and distributions to owners
Dividends paid in period – – – – (15.2) (15.2)
Movements due to share-based compensation – – – – 0.2 0.2
Issue of shares – 0.4 – – – 0.4
Balance at 29 December 2011 1.4 171.8 1.8 (3.4) (11.3) 160.3
Proﬁt for the period – – – – 27.7 27.7
Other comprehensive income
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedge – – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Retranslation of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries – – (0.5) – – (0.5)
Actuarial gain on defined benefit scheme – – – – 1.0 1.0
Tax recognised on income and expenses recognised directly 
in equity – – – – (0.8) (0.8)
Total other comprehensive income – – (0.5) (0.1) 0.2 (0.4)
Contributions by and distributions to owners
Dividends paid in period – – – – (16.0) (16.0)
Movements due to share-based compensation – – – – 0.6 0.6
Issue of shares 0.1 16.3 – – – 16.4
Balance at 27 December 2012 1.5 188.1 1.3 (3.5) 1.2 188.6
Consolidated Statement  
of Changes in Equity
for the Period Ended 27 December 2012 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
56
Note
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£m
Cash ﬂow from operating activities
Profit for the period 27.7 23.9
Adjustments for:
 Financial income 7 (1.6) (1.6)
 Financial expense 7 8.2 9.7
 Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges reclassified from equity (1.0) 1.1
 Taxation 8 10.8 9.5
 Share of loss of equity-accounted investee 0.1 –
Operating proﬁt 44.2 42.6
 Depreciation and amortisation 4 21.5 18.9
 Non-cash property charges 4 1.6 (0.5)
 Impairments and reversals of impairments 0.3 –
 Non-cash pension gain following change in indexation 0.4 (1.7)
 Surplus of pension contributions over current service cost 18 (1.6) (1.6)
 Increase in trade and other receivables (5.3) (3.0)
 (Increase)/decrease in inventories (1.3) 0.2
 Increase in trade and other payables 10.2 2.9
 Decrease in provisions and employee benefit obligations (3.0) (2.5)
Cash generated from operations 67.0 55.3
Tax paid (9.4) (8.3)
Net cash ﬂows from operating activities 57.6 47.0
Cash ﬂows from investing activities
 Interest received 0.1 0.1
 Acquisition of subsidiaries net of acquired cash (43.3) –
 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (31.1) (25.0)
Net cash ﬂows from investing activities (74.3) (24.9)
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities
 Proceeds from share issue 16.4 0.4
 Dividends paid to shareholders (16.0) (15.2)
 Interest paid (4.9) (5.0)
 Repayment of bank loans (5.0) (5.0)
 Proceeds from bank loans 32.3 –
 Payment of finance lease liabilities (0.6) (0.6)
 Refinancing fees – (1.8)
Net cash from ﬁnancing activities 22.2 (27.2)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 5.5 (5.1)
Exchange gains/(losses) on cash and cash equivalents (0.1) –
Cash and cash equivalents at start of period 5.5 10.6
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 10.9 5.5
Consolidated Statement  
of Cash Flows
for the Period Ended 27 December 2012 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
57
1. Accounting Policies
Basis of Preparation
Cineworld Group plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated in the UK.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”) and equity 
account the Group’s interest in jointly controlled entities. The parent company financial statements present information about the 
Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the EU (Adopted IFRSs). The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in 
accordance with UK GAAP; these are presented on pages 90 to 95.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements, 
except as described on pages 62 and 64.
Judgements made by the Directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial 
statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next financial period are set out below.
Information regarding the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position is set out in the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer’s Review on pages 12 to 22 and the Risks and Uncertainties 
section on pages 24 and 25. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described 
in the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer’s Review on pages 12 to 22. In addition Note 21 to the financial statements includes 
the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Going Concern
As highlighted in Note 16 to the financial statements, the Group meets its day to day working capital requirements through its bank 
facilities which consist of a five year facility of £170m, which comprises of a £70m term loan and £100m revolving facility. As at the 
period end, £60m of the term loan plus £64m of the revolving facility were drawn down. The current economic conditions create 
uncertainty particularly over (a) the level of demand for the Group’s products; and (b) the availability of bank finance in the foreseeable 
future.
The current bank facility is subject to two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net 
finance charges. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show 
that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facility, including compliance with the bank facility covenants. 
The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis.
Measurement Convention
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair 
value: derivative financial instruments and financial instruments classified as fair value through the income statement or as available 
for-sale.
The financial information of subsidiaries is included in the consolidated financial information from the date that control commences 
until the date that control ceases.
Basis of Consolidation
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the 
financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that 
are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
Jointly Controlled Entities (Equity Accounted Investees)
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement and 
requiring the venturers’ unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions. Jointly controlled entities are accounted for 
using the equity method (equity accounted investees) and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s investment includes goodwill 
identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share 
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements) Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
58
of the total recognised income and expense and equity movements of equity accounted investees, from the date that joint control 
commences until the date that joint control ceases. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted 
investee, the Group’s carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the 
Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an investee.
Transactions Eliminated on Consolidation
Intra-Group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are eliminated 
in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Use of non-GAAP proﬁt and loss measures
The Group believes that along with operating profit, the following measures:
 EBITDA
 Adjusted earnings
 Net debt
Provide additional guidance to the statutory measures of the performance of the business during the financial period.
EBITDA comprises of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, onerous lease and other non-recurring or non-cash 
property charges, transaction and reorganisation costs, defined benefit scheme indexation gain and refinancing costs.
Adjusted earnings comprises profit after tax adjusted for certain non-recurring and non-cash items as set out in Note 5.
Net debt represents net borrowings and derivatives.
Foreign Currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that 
date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities 
that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange 
rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at 
foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average 
rate for the period where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations after 23 August 2004 (the date of incorporation) are taken 
directly to the translation reserve. They are released into the income statement upon disposal.
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging
Cash Flow Hedges and Interest Swap Policy
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately 
in the income statement except where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends 
on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance 
sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties. The fair value of 
forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a 
highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in 
the hedging reserve. Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
For cash flow hedges, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the 
same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but 
the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised 
in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the 
cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income immediately.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  
continued
1. Accounting Policies continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
59
Non-Derivative Financial Instruments
Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, interest 
bearing borrowings, and trade and other payables.
Trade and Other Receivables
Trade and other receivables were initially measured on the basis of their fair value. Subsequently they are carried at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method less any impairment losses. A bad debt allowance for receivables is established when there is 
objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an 
integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the 
statement of cash flows.
Trade and Other Payables
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method.
Interest-Bearing Borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in 
the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of 
property, plant and equipment.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance 
leases. Where land and buildings are held under finance leases the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from 
that of the buildings. Leased assets acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and 
the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Other leases are operating leases. These leased assets are not recognised in the Group’s balance sheet.
Depreciation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income to write assets down to their residual values on a straight-line basis 
over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
 Land and buildings: Freehold properties 50 years
 Land and buildings: Short leasehold properties including leasehold improvements 30 years or life of lease if shorter
 Plant and machinery 3 to 10 years
 Fixtures and fittings 4 to 10 years
 Motor vehicles 3 years
No depreciation is provided on assets held for sale or on assets in the course of construction.
Depreciation methods, residual values and the useful lives of all assets are reassessed annually.
In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets, the Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of qualifying assets as part of the cost of that asset. The Group has capitalised borrowing costs with 
respect to the construction of new sites.
Business Combinations
In 2009 the Group early adopted IFRS 3 Business Combinations (2008) in accounting for business combinations.
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill as the fair value of the consideration transferred (including 
the fair value of any previously-held equity interest in the acquire) and the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the 
acquiree, less the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, all measured 
as of the acquisition date. When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in Income Statement. 
Transactions costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities that the Group incurs in connection with 
1. Accounting Policies continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
60
business combinations are expensed as incurred. See Note 9 for the application of the new policy to the business combination that 
occurred during the period.
Intangible Assets and Goodwill
Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are 
separable.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not amortised 
but is tested annually for impairment.
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are 
separable.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless 
such lives are indefinite. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at each 
balance sheet date. Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. The estimated useful lives are as 
follows:
 Brands  10 to 20 years
 Customer loyalty programme  10 years
 Other intangibles 5 to 10 years
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories is based on the First-In, First-Out (“FIFO”) 
principle. Cost comprises expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition, 
and net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated selling costs.
Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets other than inventories and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to 
determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. For 
goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite useful economic life, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet 
date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable 
amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill 
allocated to cash-generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis. A cash 
generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows 
from other assets or groups of assets.
Calculation of Recoverable Amount
The recoverable amount is the greater of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the 
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent 
cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Reversals of Impairment
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment is reversed when there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist as a 
result of a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount, including a change in fair value less costs to sell.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would 
have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Employee Beneﬁts
Deﬁned Contribution Pension Plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Deﬁned Beneﬁt Pension Plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount 
of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to 
determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets (at bid price) is deducted. The liability discount rate is the yield at the 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  
continued
1. Accounting Policies continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
61
balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Group’s obligations. The 
calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the asset recognised is limited to the present value of benefits available in the 
form of any future refunds from the plan, reductions in future contributions to the plan or settlement of the plan and takes into account 
the adverse effect of any minimum funding requirements.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as 
an expense in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become 
vested. To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive 
income.
The increase in the present value of the liabilities expected to arise from the employees’ services in the accounting period is charged 
to the income statement. The expected return on the schemes’ assets and the interest on the present value of the schemes’ liabilities 
during the accounting period are shown as finance income and finance expense respectively. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised 
immediately in equity.
Share-Based Payment Transactions
The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of options granted is 
recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date using the 
Black-Scholes Model and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The 
amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is due 
only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Share appreciation rights are also granted by the Company to employees. The fair value of the amount payable to the employee is 
recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities. The fair value is initially measured at grant date and spread over 
the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment. The fair value of the share appreciation rights is 
measured taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. The liability is remeasured at each 
balance sheet date and at settlement date and any changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
Government Grants
Government grants are recognised initially as deferred income at fair value when there is reasonable assurance that they will be 
received and the Group will comply with the conditions associated with the grant. They are then recognised in profit or loss as other 
income on a systematic basis over the useful life of the asset to which they relate.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, 
provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of 
the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Own shares held by Employee Beneﬁt Trust (“EBT”)
Transactions of the Group sponsored EBT are included in the Group financial information. In particular, the trust’s purchase of shares 
in the Company are debited directly to equity.
Revenue
Revenue represents the total amount receivable for goods sold, excluding sales related taxes and intra-Group transactions. All the 
Group’s revenue is received from the sale of goods.
 Box office revenue is recognised on the date of the showing of the film it relates to.
 Concessions revenue is recognised at point of sale.
 Advertising revenue is recognised when the advertisement is shown.
 Unlimited card revenue is received annually or monthly in advance. When revenue from the Unlimited card is received annually in 
advance it is recognised on a straight-line basis over the year. Monthly Unlimited card revenue is recognised in the period to which it 
relates.
 Other revenue is recognised in the period to which it relates.
Other Income
Other income represents rent receivable. Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Expenses
Virtual Print Fees
A Virtual Print Fee (“VPF”) represents a discount from the cost Cineworld pays for film rental and reflects the cost saving to the studios 
of the move to digital. A VPF is receivable the first time a film is played in a digital format on a screen rather than using 35mm film.
1. Accounting Policies continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
62
A VPF is recognised on the date of the showing of the film it relates to and is included in cost of sales as a reduction of the film hire 
costs. VPFs are expected to be received for between seven and ten years, dependent upon the length of time it takes Cineworld to 
convert to digital projectors.
Operating Lease Payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the 
term of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense. 
Where the Group has operating leases that contain minimum guaranteed rental uplifts over the life of the lease, the Group recognises 
the guaranteed minimum lease payment on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Finance Lease Payments
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance 
charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance 
of the liability.
Net Financing Costs
Net financing costs comprise interest payable, amortisation of financing costs, unwind of discount on onerous lease provisions, finance 
lease interest, net gain/loss on remeasurement of interest rate swaps, interest receivable on funds invested, foreign exchange gains 
and losses and finance costs for defined benefit pension schemes.
Sale and Leaseback
Where the Group enters into a sale and leaseback transaction whereby the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets concerned 
have not been substantially transferred to the lessor, any excess of sales proceeds over the previous carrying amount are deferred and 
recognised in the income statement over the lease term. At the date of the transaction the assets and the associated finance lease 
liabilities on the Group’s balance sheet are stated at the lower of fair value of the leased assets and the present value of the minimum 
lease payments.
Where the Group enters into a sale and leaseback transaction whereby the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets concerned 
have been substantially transferred to the lessor, any excess of sales proceeds over the previous carrying amount is recognised in the 
income statement on completion of the transaction, when the sale and subsequent lease back has been completed at fair value.
Taxation
Tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method, providing temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not 
provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill; the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable 
profit other than in a business combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably 
not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or 
settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the 
asset can be utilised.
Operating Segments
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur 
expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. An operating 
segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly by the Board of Directors to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the 
segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
Signiﬁcant Accounting Judgements and Estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the 
application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates.
Estimates
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
In applying the Group’s accounting policies described above the Directors have identified that the following areas are the key estimates 
that have a significant impact on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  
continued
1. Accounting Policies continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
63
Onerous Leases
Provision is made for onerous leases where it is considered that the unavoidable costs of the lease obligations are in excess of the 
economic benefits expected to be received from operating it. The unavoidable costs of the lease reflect the least net cost of exiting 
from the contract and are measured as the lower of the net cost of continuing to operating the lease and any penalties or other costs 
from exiting it.
When calculating the provision for onerous leases the Group is required to make certain assumptions about the future cash flows to be 
generated from that cinema site. It is also required to discount these cash flows using an appropriate discount rate. The resulting 
provision is therefore very sensitive to these assumptions however, the Directors consider that the assumptions made represent their 
best estimate of the future cash flows generated by onerous cinema sites, and that the discount rate used is appropriate given the 
risks associated with these cash flows.
Impairment of Goodwill
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis. This requires an estimate of the value in use of the 
cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the 
expected future cash flows from the cash generating unit that holds the goodwill at a determined discount rate to calculate the present 
value of those cash flows.
Forecasting expected cash flows, and selecting an appropriate discount rate inherently requires estimation, however management has 
also applied sensitivity analysis to the estimates which does not affect the outcome (see Note 11).
Impairment of Tangible Fixed Assets
The Group determines whether tangible fixed assets are impaired when indicators of impairments exist. This requires an estimate of 
the value in use of the cash generating units to which the tangible fixed assets are allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the 
Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash generating units that holds the tangible fixed assets at a 
determined discount rate to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
When reviewing fixed assets for impairment, the Group is required to make certain assumptions about the future cash flows to be 
generated from the individual cinema sites. It is also required to discount these cash flows using an appropriate discount rate. The 
resulting calculation is therefore very sensitive to these assumptions. However, the Directors consider that the assumptions made 
represent their best estimate of the future cash flows generated by the cinema sites, and that the discount rate used is appropriate 
given the risks associated with these cash flows. Management has applied sensitivity analysis to the estimates (see Note 10).
Employee Post Retirement Beneﬁt Obligations
The Group has two defined benefit pension plans. The obligations under these plans are recognised in the balance sheet and represent 
the present value of the obligations calculated by independent actuaries, with input from management. These actuarial valuations 
include assumptions such as discount rates, return on assets, salary progression and mortality rates. These assumptions vary from 
time to time according to prevailing economic and social conditions. Details of the assumptions used are provided in Note 18.
Management consider that the assumptions used are the most appropriate but recognise that the resulting pension liability is very 
sensitive to these assumptions.
Deferred Tax Assets
The Group recognises deferred tax assets for temporary differences arising at the balance sheet date. The Group applies estimates 
when calculating the carrying value of these assets and considering whether future taxable profits are sufficient to ensure their 
recoverability.
Judgements
In addition, the Directors are required to make certain judgements when applying the Group’s accounting policies described above. The 
key judgements are:
Finance and Operating Leases
When the Group enters into a new lease it is required to consider whether it bears substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset. 
The Group considers the requirements of IAS 17 “Leases” when determining whether it has an operating or finance lease, and in most 
cases the outcome is clear.
Hedging Arrangements
The Group enters into interest rate swaps to fix a portion of its exposure to variable interest rates on its loan arrangements. In order to 
apply the hedge accounting provisions of IAS 39 “Financial Instruments”, the Group must consider the effectiveness of its hedging 
arrangements when deciding whether they can hedge account.
New Standards and Interpretations
The Directors considered the impact of other new and revised accounting standards, interpretations or amendments on the Group that 
are currently endorsed but not yet effective. The Directors anticipate that all of the relevant pronouncements will be adopted in the 
Group’s accounting policies for the first period beginning after the effective date of the pronouncement. Information on new standards, 
1. Accounting Policies continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
64
amendments and interpretations that are expected to impact the Group’s financial statements is provided below. Certain other new 
standards and interpretations have been issued but are not expected to have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
Presentation of items of ‘Other Comprehensive Income’ (Amendments to IAS 1)
The Amendments to IAS 1 are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012 and require entities to group items 
presented in other comprehensive income (OCI) into those that, in accordance with other IFRSs, will not be reclassified subsequently to 
profit or loss and those that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met. The existing option to 
present items of OCI either before tax or net of tax remains unchanged; however, if the items are presented before tax, then the 
Amendments to IAS 1 require the tax related to each of the two groups of OCI to be shown separately.
Amendments to IAS 19 ‘Employee Beneﬁts’ (IAS 19 Amendments)
The IAS 19 Amendments include a number of improvements throughout the Standard. The main changes relate to the defined benefit 
plan. They:
 eliminate the ‘corridor method’, requiring all actuarial gains and losses to recognised in the period in which they arise;
 changes the measurement and presentation of certain components of costs associated with defined benefit plans; and
 enhance the disclosure requirements in respect of defined benefit plans.
The IAS 19 Amendments are effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and will apply retrospectively. The Group will be 
affected as it has two defined benefit plans in place. The net pension expense in profit or loss will be affected by the removal of the 
expected return on plan assets and interest cost components and their replacement by a net interest cost based on the net defined 
benefit asset or liability. The Group’s actuarial advisors currently believe that the expected pension expense for 2013 to be increased 
by £0.2m.
2. Operating Segments
Determination and presentation of operating segments:
Prior to the acquisition of Picturehouse, the Group has determined that it had one operating segment and therefore one reportable 
segment being cinema operations. All the disclosable operating segment information required by IFRS8 can be found in the primary 
statements and the supporting note. Subsequent to its acquisition, Picturehouse represented a separate operating segment, however 
due to the close proximity of the acquisition to the year, the impact on disclosable operating segment information is not considered to 
be material.
Revenue by destination and by origin from countries other than the UK in all financial periods was not material. Likewise non-current 
assets located in other countries other than the UK in all financial periods are not material.
Entity Wide Disclosures:
Cineworld
Revenue by product and service provided
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
Total 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
Total 
£m
Box office 251.6 242.1
Retail 82.3 81.6
Other 22.3 24.3
Total revenue 356.2 348.0
Picturehouse
Revenue by product and service provided
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
Total 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
Total 
£m
Box office 1.0 –
Retail 0.5 –
Other 1.0 –
Total revenue 2.5 –
All revenue streams are driven by admissions. The Group’s internal management reporting and operations are not separated into these 
categories.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  
continued
1. Accounting Policies continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
65
3. Other Operating Income
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£m
Rental income 0.3 0.4
0.3 0.4
4. Operating Proﬁt
Included in operating profit for the period are the following:
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£m
Depreciation 21.4
*
18.8
*
Impairments (see Note 10) 0.3
*
–
Amortisation of intangibles (see Note 11) 0.1
*
0.1
*
Onerous leases and other non-recurring charges 1.6
*
(0.5)
*
Other non-recurring income (2.0)
*
–
Transaction and reorganisation costs 1.1
*
3.9
*
Hire of other assets – operating leases 47.7
§
48.8
§
* Included in administrative expenses.
§ £0.3m (2011: £0.7m) is included in administrative costs. The balance is included in cost of sales.
In 2012 there was a net charge of £1.6m (2011: net credit of £0.3) on onerous leases following changes in trading assumptions, and 
a dilapidations charge of £nil (£2011: net credit of £0.2m).
In 2012 non-recurring income relates to the reclaim of VAT previously paid on exempt sales (2011: £nil).
In 2012, transaction costs relate to the acquisition of Picturehouse. In 2011, transaction costs relate to an attempted acquisition and 
the majority of reorganisation costs relate to the digital conversion and harmonising audio/visual work across the whole circuit, 
including redundancy costs.
The total remuneration of the Group auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and its affiliates for the services to the Group is analysed below.
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012  
£000
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011  
£000
Auditors’ remuneration:
Group – audit 208 207
Company – audit 6 6
Amounts received by auditors and their associates in respect of:
– Audit of financial statements pursuant to legislation 214 213
– Audit related assurance services 56 54
– Tax compliance services 64 70
– Tax advisory services 111 187
– Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into by or on behalf of the Company or the Group 50 163
– All other services 9 11 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
66
5. Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, after excluding the weighted average number of non-vested ordinary shares 
held by the employee ownership trust. Adjusted pro-forma earnings per share is calculated in the same way except that the profit for 
the period attributable to ordinary shareholders is adjusted by adding back the amortisation of intangible assets, the cost of share-
based payments, any other one-off income or expense and applying a tax charge at the statutory rate, to the adjusted profit.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, after excluding the weighted average number of non-vested ordinary 
shares held by the employee share ownership trust and after adjusting for the effects of dilutive options.
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£m
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 27.7 23.9
Adjustments:
 Amortisation of intangible assets 0.2 0.1
 Share-based payments 0.9 0.6
 Transaction and reorganisation costs 1.1 3.9
 Impairments 1.0 –
 Defined benefit scheme past service costs 0.4 (1.7)
 Dilapidations credit – (0.2)
 Onerous lease cost/(credit) 1.6 (0.3)
 Income relating to VAT reclaim (2.0) –
 Refinancing (income)/expenses (1.0) 1.2
Adjusted earnings 29.9 27.5
 Add back tax charge 10.8 9.5
Adjusted pro-forma profit before tax 40.7 37.0
 Less tax at statutory rate 24.5% (2011: 26.0%) (10.0) (9.6)
Adjusted pro-forma profit after tax 30.7 27.4
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
Number of 
shares (m)
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
Number of 
shares (m)
Weighted average number of shares in issue 143.1 142.0
Basic and adjusted earnings per share denominator 143.1 142.0
Dilutive options 1.6 0.9
Diluted earnings per share denominator 144.7 142.9
Shares in issue at period end 149.6 142.3
Pence Pence
Basic earnings per share 19.4 16.8
Diluted earnings per share 19.1 16.7
Adjusted pro-forma basic earnings per share 21.5 19.3
Adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share 21.2 19.2
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  
continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
67
6. Staff Numbers and Costs
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the period, analysed by category, was as follows:
Number of staff
2012 2011
Head office 215 155
Cinemas 5,226 4,517
5,441 4,672
Included in the average number of persons employed by the Group are part-time employees. No distinction is made between full-time 
and part-time employees in the analysis above.
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£m
Wages and salaries 47.8 48.2
Social security costs 2.8 3.1
Other pension costs – Defined contribution 0.4 0.4
Share-based payments (see Note 18) 0.9 0.6
51.9 52.3
See pages 44 to 50 for Directors’ remuneration.
7. Finance Income and Expense
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£m
Interest income 0.1 0.1
Expected return on defined benefit pension plan assets (Note 18) 1.5 1.5
Finance income 1.6 1.6
Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 4.9 5.3
Amortisation of financing costs 0.4 0.7
Unwind of discount on onerous lease provision 0.8 1.2
Finance cost for defined benefit pension scheme (Note 18) 1.3 1.4
Interest charge as a result of change in discount rate relating to onerous lease provisions 0.4 0.6
Other financial costs 0.4 0.5
Finance expense 8.2 9.7
Ineffectiveness recognised in profit and loss arising from cash flow hedges – 1.1
Amounts reclassified from equity to profit and loss in respect of cash flow hedges (1.0) –
Total ﬁnancial expense 7.2 10.8 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
68
Recognised within other comprehensive income:
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£m
Movement in fair value of interest rate swap (0.1) (0.6)
Foreign exchange translation loss (0.5) –
Finance expense (0.6) (0.6)
8. Taxation
Recognised in the Income Statement
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£m
Current tax expense
Current year 10.0 8.5
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.6) (3.3)
Total current tax expense 9.4 5.2
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1.4 4.3
Total tax charge in income statement 10.8 9.5
Reconciliation of Effective Tax Rate
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2011 
£m
Proﬁt before tax 38.5 33.4
Tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 24.5% (2011: 26.5%) 9.4 8.9
Differences in overseas tax rates (0.1) (0.1)
Permanently disallowed depreciation 1.0 1.0
Other permanent differences 0.4 2.4
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.6) (3.3)
Effect of change in statutory rate to 23% (2011: 25%) on deferred tax 0.7 0.6
Total tax charge in income statement 10.8 9.5
During the period there was a deferred tax charge of £0.8m (2011: credit of £1.0m) recognised directly in equity. This relates to the 
actuarial gain (2011: loss) on the defined benefit scheme and the movement in the fair value of the cash flow hedge on part of the 
Group’s bank loans; see Note 13.
Factors that may affect future tax charges
As at 27 December 2012 the Group had potential tax assets relating to the following:
 other non-trading losses of approximately £2.6m (2011: £2.6m)
 capital losses of approximately £7.6m (2011: £7.6m)
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of non-trading and capital losses carried forward as it is unclear whether 
non-trading income or capital gains against which the losses may be offset will arise in the Group for the foreseeable future. The net 
tax benefit of utilising any of the above losses is expected to amount to approximately 23% of the losses utilised.
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures where the Group controls the timing of 
remittance and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The 2012 Budget on 21 March 2012 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 22% by 2014. A reduction in the rate 
from 26% to 25% (effective from 1 April 2012) was substantively enacted on 5 July 2011, a further reduction to 24% (effective from 1 
April 2012) was substantively enacted on 26 March 2012, and a further reduction to 23% (effective from 1 April 2013) was 
substantively enacted on 3 July 2012.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  
continued
7. Finance Income and Expense continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
69
9. Business Combinations
On 6 December 2012 the Group obtained control of City Screen Limited, its subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures held by City 
Screen Limited (collectively referred to as “City Screen”). City Screen trade as the “Picturehouse” group of cinemas. Control was 
obtained by acquiring 100% of the shares and voting interests in the acquired entities. Headline consideration was £47.3m which when 
adjusted for certain provisions of the purchase agreement resulted in a fair value of consideration transferred of £43.7m.
In the three weeks to 27 December 2012, City Screen contributed revenue of £2.5m and profit after tax of £0.1m. If the acquisition 
had occurred on 30 December 2011 (the first day of the current period), management estimates that consolidated revenue would have 
been £390.3m, and consolidated profit after tax for the period would have been £28.7m. In determining these amounts, management 
have assumed that the fair value adjustments, determined provisionally, that arose on the acquisition date would have been the same 
if the acquisition had occurred on 30 December 2011.
Consideration transferred
 
£m
Fair value of consideration transferred 
Cash 43.7
Identiﬁable assets acquired and liabilities assumed
Provisional 
£m
Fair value of total net identiﬁable assets 
Land and buildings (including leasehold improvements) 20.5
Plant and machinery 2.6
Fixtures and fittings 1.6
Brand and Customer loyalty programme 15.5
Inventory 0.3
Trade receivables 1.2
Other receivables 1.6
Cash and cash equivalents 0.4
Loans and borrowings (4.3)
Government grants (1.9)
Deferred tax liabilities (5.0)
Trade and other payables (8.4)
Total net identiﬁable assets 24.1
Due to the close proximity of acquisition to the year end, management are still in the process of identifying and separating acquired 
intangible assets and as a result the fair value of the acquired net indentifiable assets were measured on a provisional basis. 
Intangible assets have currently been recognised in respect of brand and the customer loyalty programme. The value of the brand is 
subject to professional valuation which is expected to be complete prior to the 2013 interim results. Any subsequent change in 
valuation of intangible assets will result in a reallocation between intangible assets and goodwill.
As at the year end, certain aspects of the acquisition were being reviewed by the Office of Fair Trading. The result of their findings may 
result in changes to the fair value of assets recognised at acquisition. On this basis property, plant and equipment, working capital and 
other items were also measured on a provisional basis.
Trade receivables comprise gross contractual amounts due of £1.2m, of which all was expected to be collectable at the acquisition 
date.
Goodwill
 
£m
Goodwill recognised as a result of the transaction 
Fair value of consideration transferred 43.7
Less:
Fair value of net identifiable assets (24.1)
Goodwill 19.6
Due to the continuing exercise to identify acquired intangible assets, management believe that goodwill is likely to include potential 
intangible assets in respect of supplier contracts and other agreements. Residual goodwill represents the skills and industry 
knowledge of City Screen’s management and work force, synergies expected to be realised post acquisition and the future value 
expected to be generated by City Screen from its pipeline. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
70
Transactions separate from the acquisition
The Group incurred acquisition related costs of £1.1m relating to external legal fees and due diligence costs. The legal fees and due 
diligence costs have been included in Transaction and reorganisation costs in the Group’s consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income.
Share issue costs incurred during the placement of shares to raise funds for the acquisition have been deducted from the proceeds of 
the issue of the related shares.
10. Property, Plant and Equipment
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m
Fixtures and 
fittings 
£m
Assets in the 
course of 
construction 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
Balance at 30 December 2010 90.4 46.1 48.6 – 185.1
Additions 0.8 16.6 8.9 2.6 28.9
Disposals – (7.2) (10.8) – (18.0)
Transfers 2.6 – – (2.6) –
Effects of movement in foreign exchange (0.1) – (0.2) – (0.3)
Balance at 29 December 2011 93.7 55.5 46.5 – 195.7
Additions due to acquisition 20.5 2.6 1.6 – 24.7
Additions 1.7 11.6 17.4 2.1 32.8
Disposals (0.5) (6.8) (3.8) – (11.1)
Transfers 2.1 (0.1) – (1.9) 0.1
Effects of movement in foreign exchange (0.1) (0.1) (0.4) – (0.6)
Balance at 27 December 2012 117.4 62.7 61.3 0.2 241.6
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
Balance at 30 December 2010 20.9 21.3 28.7 – 70.9
Charge for the period 5.0 6.4 7.4 – 18.8
Disposals – (7.2) (10.8) – (18.0)
Effects of movement in foreign exchange (0.1) – (0.2) – (0.3)
Balance at 29 December 2011 25.8 20.5 25.1 – 71.4
Charge for the period 5.0 7.2 9.2 – 21.4
Disposals (0.5) (6.8) (3.8) – (11.1)
Effects of movement in foreign exchange (0.1) – (0.3) – (0.4)
Impairments 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3
Balance at 27 December 2012 30.3 21.1 30.2 – 81.6
Net book value
At 30 December 2010 69.5 24.8 19.9 – 114.2
At 29 December 2011 67.9 35.0 21.4 – 124.3
At 27 December 2012 87.1 41.6 31.1 0.2 160.0
Land and Buildings are made up of short leasehold properties encompassing leasehold improvements and freehold properties.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  
continued
9. Business Combinations continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
71
Of the £32.8m (2011: £28.9m) of additions during the year, £8.5m (2011: £14.1m) relates to the acquisition and installation of digital 
projection equipment, £4.9m (2011: £0.7m) relates to the installation of IMAX and £6.8m (2011: £0.5m) relates to the Customer First 
Programme.
The net book value of assets held under a finance lease is:
27 December 
2012 
£m
29 December 
2011 
£m
The net book value of assets held under ﬁnance leases comprised:
Opening net book value 4.7 4.9
Additions due to acquisition 0.8 –
Depreciation charge (0.2) (0.2)
Closing net book value 5.3 4.7
The above assets held under finance leases relate to a finance lease held on one cinema site which is included within land and 
buildings. Additions during the year are as a result of the acquisition of City Screen Limited. The acquired assets held under finance 
leases relate to digital projection equipment.
Interest of £15,000 (2011: £40,000) has been capitalised during the period which relates to the construction of a new site.
With respect to the tangible fixed asset disposals, no proceeds were receivable in the period.
Impairment
The Group considers each Cinema site to be a cash generating unit (“CGU”) and each CGU is reviewed annually for indicators of 
impairment. In assessing whether an asset has been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU is compared to its recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. In the absence of any information about 
the fair value of a CGU, the recoverable amount is deemed to be its value in use. The Group estimates value in use using a discounted 
cash flow model, which applies a pre-tax discount rate of 8.4% (2011: 9.0%). The future cash flows are based on financial budgets 
approved by management covering a one year period. Cash flows beyond the first period have been extrapolated using the assumptions 
used in the impairment model (see Note 11). The £0.3m impairment loss was caused by trading not reaching expectations for the 
foreseeable future in relation to two cinema sites.
Sensitivity to Changes in Assumptions
The level of impairment is predominantly dependent upon judgements used in arriving at future growth rates and the discount rate 
applied to cash flow projections. The impact on the impairment charge of applying different assumptions to the growth rates used in 
the five year business plan and in the discount rates would be as follows:
£m
Impairment if business plan growth rates were reduced by 1% for first five years 0.1
Impairment if discount rate was increased by 1% 0.1
10. Property, Plant and Equipment continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
72
11. Intangible Assets
Goodwill 
£m
Brand and 
other 
intangibles 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
Balance at 30 December 2010 224.8 1.2 226.0
Balance at 29 December 2011 224.8 1.2 226.0
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 19.6 15.5 35.1
Balance at 27 December 2012 244.4 16.7 261.1
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
Balance at 30 December 2010 7.7 0.8 8.5
Amortisation – 0.1 0.1
Balance at 29 December 2011 7.7 0.9 8.6
Amortisation – 0.1 0.1
Balance at 27 December 2012 7.7 1.0 8.7
Net book value
At 30 December 2010 217.1 0.4 217.5
At 29 December 2011 217.1 0.3 217.4
At 27 December 2012 236.7 15.7 252.4
Impairment Testing
Each individual cinema is considered to be a CGU. However, for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, it is acceptable under 
IAS 36 to group CGUs.
The ex-Cine-UK and ex-UGC (including Dublin) businesses are now fully integrated, meaning that goodwill is now monitored on a 
Cineworld wide level. The Picturehouse CGUs are considered together as a separate group and will be tested for goodwill impairment 
on this basis. Management considered the fair value of acquired net assets at the date of acquisition which was in close proximity to 
the year end. As the fair value of acquired net assets was measured on a provisional basis, no further impairment testing has been 
carried out since the date of acquisition.
The following assumptions have been applied to both individual CGUs when testing for impairment of PPE and groups of CGUs for 
goodwill impairment testing where applicable.
The recoverable amount of Cineworld has been determined based on a value in use calculation. That calculation uses cash flow 
projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a one-year period. Cash flows beyond the first year period 
have been extrapolated using the below assumptions. This growth rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the 
market in which Cineworld operates.
The key assumptions behind the impairment review are as follows:
2013 forecast earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortisation (“EBITDA”) was used as the basis of the future cash flow 
calculation. This is adjusted to add back rent (EBITDAR) and essential capex on existing sites. In line with long-term industry growth 
rates, EBITDAR is assumed to grow at 3% per annum.
Property costs are factored into the model, but are assumed to grow at 2.5% per annum over the life of the model. Cash flows are not 
assumed in perpetuity.
The Group has discounted forecast flows using a pre-tax discount rate of 8.4% (2011: 9.0%) being a market participant’s discount rate. 
This is considered to reflect the risks associated with the relevant cash flows.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  
continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
73
Management have sensitised the key assumptions including the discount rate and under base case and sensitised case no indicators 
of impairment exist. Management believes that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which Cineworld’s 
recoverable amount is based would not cause Cineworld’s carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
Amortisation Charge
The amortisation of intangible assets is recognised in the following line items in the income statement:
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£m
Administrative expenses 0.1 0.1
12. Investment in Equity Accounted Investee
The Group has the following investment in a jointly controlled entity:
Country of Incorporation Class of shares held Ownership
Digital Cinema Media Limited England and Wales Ordinary 50%
On 8 February 2008 the Group jointly formed Digital Cinema Media Limited (“DCM”) with Odeon Cinemas Holdings Limited (“Odeon”). 
On 10 July 2008 DCM acquired certain trade and assets (substantially employees, computer systems, leasehold office and existing 
contracts) from Carlton Screen Advertising Limited, the Group’s former advertising supplier.
Under the terms of the shareholder agreement between the Group and Odeon, key business decisions in respect of DCM require the 
unanimous approval of the shareholders. As a consequence, the Directors of the Group do not have total management control of DCM, 
therefore the Group’s investment is accounted for as a joint venture.
27 December 
2012 
£m
29 December 
2011 
£m
Cost 0.9 0.9
Share of post acquisition reserves (0.1) (0.1)
0.8 0.8
Share of post tax profit/(loss) (0.1) –
Carrying value 0.7 0.8
Summary aggregated financial information on jointly controlled entities – 100%:
27 December 
2012 
£m
29 December 
2011 
£m
Current assets 23.4 16.3
Non-current assets 1.9 1.7
Current liabilities (16.6) (17.8)
Non-current liabilities (9.0) (0.4)
Net (liabilities)/assets (0.3) (0.2)
Income 53.4 52.1
Expenses (53.6) (52.0)
Net profit/( loss) (0.2) 0.1
Screen advertising represents an important part of the Group’s revenue streams and the joint venture partners recognise the 
importance of protecting this revenue stream. The joint venture partners are able to reduce their share of the advertising income if 
deemed necessary to support DCM.
11. Intangible Assets continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
74
13. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
27 December 
2012 
£m
29 December 
2011 
£m
27 December 
2012 
£m
29 December 
2011 
£m
27 December 
2012 
£m
29 December 
2011 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.4 1.4 (3.3) (2.3) (2.9) (0.9)
Intangible assets – – (3.6) (0.1) (3.6) (0.1)
Employee benefits 0.4 0.3 (1.0) (0.5) (0.6) (0.2)
Reverse premiums 2.2 2.5 – – 2.2 2.5
Effect of straight lining operating lease accruals 6.6 7.3 – – 6.6 7.3
Interest rate swap 0.8 1.1 – – 0.8 1.1
Tax assets/(liabilities) 10.4 12.6 (7.9) (2.9) 2.5 9.7
Set off tax (0.5) (0.6) 0.5 0.6 – –
Net tax assets/(liabilities) 9.9 12.0 7.4 (2.3) 2.5 9.7
See Note 8 for details of unrecognised tax assets.
Deferred taxation provided for in the financial statements at the period end represents provision at 23% (2011: 25%) on the above 
items. The effect of the change in statutory rate from 25% to 23% resulted in a £0.6m charge recognised in income (2011: 27% to 25% 
£0.7m). In line with government announcements (see Note 8), a further reduction in the net deferred asset is expected.
A review of the deferred tax will be performed at each balance date and adjustments made in the event of a change in any key 
assumptions.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
29 December 
2011 
£m
Recognised 
in income 
£m
Recognised 
in equity 
£m
Recognised 
on acquisition 
of subsidiary 
undertakings 
£m
27 December 
2012 
£m
Property, plant and equipment (0.9) (0.6) – (1.4) (2.9)
Intangible assets (0.1) 0.1 – (3.6) (3.6)
Employee benefits (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) – (0.6)
Reverse premiums 2.5 (0.3) – – 2.2
Effect of straight lining operating lease accruals 7.3 (0.7) – – 6.6
Interest rate swap 1.1 0.3 (0.6) – 0.8
Tax assets/(liabilities) 9.7 (1.4) (0.8) (5.0) 2.5
30 December 
2010 
£m
Recognised 
in income 
£m
Recognised 
in equity 
£m
29 December 
2011 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 1.4 (2.3) – (0.9)
Intangible assets (0.1) – – (0.1)
Employee benefits 0.3 (0.8) 0.3 (0.2)
Reverse premiums 2.8 (0.3) – 2.5
Effect of straight lining operating lease accruals 7.9 (0.6) – 7.3
Interest rate swap 0.7 (0.3) 0.7 1.1
Tax assets/(liabilities) 13.0 (4.3) 1.0 9.7
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  
continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
75
14. Inventories
27 December 
2012 
£m
29 December 
2011 
£m
Goods for resale 3.8 2.1
3.8 2.1
Goods for resale recognised in cost of sales in the period amounted to £18.0m (2011: £17.6m).
15. Trade and Other Receivables
Current
27 December 
2012 
£m
29 December 
2011 
£m
Trade receivables 4.5 1.9
Other receivables – 0.1
Prepayments and accrued income 29.8 24.6
34.3 26.6
Non-current
27 December 
2012 
£m
29 December 
2011 
£m
Land lease premiums 0.9 0.9
Loan to jointly controlled entity 0.5 0.5
1.4 1.4
16. Interest-Bearing Loans and Borrowings and Other Financial Liabilities
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
27 December 
2012 
£m
29 December 
2011 
£m
Non-current liabilities
Interest rate swaps 2.2 2.8
Unsecured bank loan, less issue costs of debt to be amortised 121.3 91.1
Liabilities under finance leases 6.2 6.1
129.7 100.0
Current liabilities
Interest rate swaps 1.3 1.7
Unsecured bank loans, less issue costs of debt to be amortised 6.0 4.6
Liabilities under finance leases 0.8 0.6
8.1 6.9 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
76
The terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows:
27 December 2012 29 December 2011
Currency
Nominal  
interest rate
Year of 
maturity
Face value 
£m
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Face value 
£m
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Unsecured bank loan – 1 GBP LIBOR +1.95% 2016 124.0 123.1 97.0 95.7
Unsecured bank loan – 2 GBP LIBOR +5.00% 2014 1.2 1.2 ––
Unsecured bank loan – 3 GBP LIBOR +3.50% 2015 0.7 0.7 ––
Unsecured bank loan – 4 GBP LIBOR +5.00% 2016 1.4 1.4 ––
Unsecured bank loan – 5 GBP LIBOR +5.00% 2016 0.8 0.8 ––
Unsecured bank loan – 6 GBP 5.00% 2022 0.1 0.1
Finance lease liability – 1 GBP 7.2% 2029 6.6 6.6 6.7 6.7
Finance lease liability – 2 GBP 4.5% 2015 0.2 0.2 ––
Finance lease liability – 3 GBP 4.5% 2014 0.1 0.1 ––
Finance lease liability – 4 GBP 3.5% 2014 0.1 0.1 ––
Total interest bearing liabilities 135.2 134.3 103.7 102.4
See Note 21 for bank loan maturity analysis.
Finance Lease Liabilities
The maturity of obligations under finance leases is as follows:
27 December 
2012 
£m
29 December 
2011 
£m
Within one year 0.8 0.6
Between one and two years 0.8 0.6
In the second to fifth years 1.9 1.9
Over five years 8.5 9.1
12.0 12.2
Less future finance charges (5.0) (5.5)
7.0 6.7
Analysis of net debt
Cash at bank 
and in hand 
£m
Bank loans 
£m
Finance 
leases 
£m
Interest rate 
swap 
£m
Net debt 
£m
At 30 December 2010 10.6 (101.8) (6.8) (2.8) (100.8)
Cash flows (5.1) 6.8 0.6 – 2.3
Non-cash movement – (0.7) (0.5) (1.7) (2.9)
At 29 December 2011 5.5 (95.7) (6.7) (4.5) (101.4)
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 0.4 (3.9) (0.4) – (3.9)
Cash flows 5.0 (27.3) 0.6 – (21.7)
Non-cash movement – (0.4) (0.5) 1.0 0.1
At 27 December 2012 10.9 (127.3) (7.0) (3.5) (126.9)
The non-cash movements relating to bank loans represent the amortisation of debt issuance costs.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  
continued
16. Interest-Bearing Loans and Borrowings and Other Financial Liabilities continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
77
17. Trade and Other Payables
27 December 
2012 
£m
29 December 
2011 
£m
Current
Trade payables 29.8 15.2
Other payables 4.7 5.0
Accruals and deferred income 38.2 32.7
72.7 52.9
27 December 
2012 
£m
29 December 
2011 
£m
Non-current
Accruals and deferred income 53.3 53.3
Non-current accruals and deferred income include reverse-lease premiums and an accrual for straight lining operating leases.
18. Employee Beneﬁts
Pension Plans
The Group operates two externally funded defined benefit pension schemes, one in the United Kingdom, the MGM Pension Scheme, 
and one in Ireland, the Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan.
MGM Scheme
The Scheme is a funded Scheme of the defined benefit type, providing retirement benefits based on final salary. The Scheme closed to 
future accrual from 31 May 2009, though the link to final pay at retirement was retained.
The valuation used for IAS19 disclosures has been based on a full assessment of the liabilities of the Scheme as at 5 April 2009. The 
present values of the defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost and any past service costs were measured using the 
projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses have been recognised in the period in which they occur, but outside the Income Statement, through Other 
Comprehensive Income.
In 2012 an allowance of £0.4m has been made for the estimated cost of equalising member benefits correctly. This has been 
recognised as a past service cost in the Statement of Comprehensive Income, and increased the Scheme liabilities.
In 2011 there was a £1.7m reduction in the value placed on the Scheme’s liability which was recognised as a negative past service 
cost in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. This resulted from the UK Government’s announcement in summer 2010, and the 
consultation with the members in October 2011, that the inflation index to be used to derive statutory pension increases changed from 
the Retail Prices Index (“RPI”) to the Consumer Prices Index (“CPI”). Due to differences between the indices, including both 
constituents and construction, CPI was expected to be less than RPI over the long-term which meant that the Scheme liabilities would 
reduce.
The Company made contributions of £1.6m during 2012 (2011: £1.6m).
Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan
The Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan is closed to new entrants and therefore the current service cost is £nil. The 
trustees of the Adelphi-Carlton Contributory Pension Plan have not agreed that any surplus on the plan can be refunded to the 
Company. Accordingly the surplus has not been recognised. The Scheme has a surplus of £0.3m as at 27 December 2012 (2011: 
£0.6m).
Actuaries for Adelphi-Carlton Limited carried out the last actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 1 April 2007. Based on this 
assessment, the actuarial value of the assets of the scheme was more than sufficient to cover 100% of the benefits that had accrued 
to members. In view of this, a suspension of Company contributions was in force from 1 April 2001 to 27 December 2012. Total 
contributions for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2011 and 52 weeks ended 27 December 2012 were £nil and £nil, respectively. Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
78
The net surplus/(deficit) in the pension scheme is:
27 December 
2012 
£m
29 December 
2011 
£m
MGM Pension scheme 4.4 2.0
Net surplus/(deﬁcit) 4.4 2.0
MGM Pension Scheme
27 December 
2012 
£m
29 December 
2011 
£m
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (28.1) (28.4)
Fair value of plan assets 32.5 30.4
Surplus in scheme 4.4 2.0
When the members’ benefits have been fully paid, the rules of the scheme permit any surplus to revert to the Employer (the Group). 
Therefore the surplus on the scheme has been recognised as an asset.
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation:
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£m
At beginning of period (28.4) (28.3)
Interest cost (1.3) (1.4)
Current service cost – –
Contributions by scheme participants – –
Actuarial gain/(loss) 0.8 (1.7)
Benefits paid 1.2 1.3
Past service cost (RPI to CPI change) – 1.7
Past service cost (member benefits equalisation) (0.4) –
At end of period (28.1) (28.4)
Movements in fair value of plan assets:
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£m
At start of period 30.4 28.3
Expected return on plan assets 1.5 1.5
Actuarial gains 0.2 0.3
Contributions by employer 1.6 1.6
Contributions by members – –
Benefits paid (1.2) (1.3)
At end of period 32.5 30.4
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  
continued
18. Employee Beneﬁts continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
79
(Expense)/income recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income:
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£m
Interest on defined benefit pension plan obligation (1.3) (1.4)
Expected return on defined benefit pension plan assets 1.5 1.5
Past service cost (RPI to CPI change) – 1.7
Past service cost (member benefits equalisation) (0.4) –
Total (0.2) 1.8
The (expense)/income is recognised in the following line items in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income:
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£m
Financial expenses (1.3) (1.4)
Financial income 1.5 1.5
Administrative expenses (0.4) 1.7
Total (0.2) 1.8
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income:
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£m
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in the period 1.0 (1.4)
Cumulative amount at start of period (1.1) 0.3
Cumulative amount at end of period (0.1) (1.1)
The fair value of the plan assets and the return on those assets were as follows:
Long-term 
rate of return 
expected at 
27 December 
2012
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
Long-term 
rate of return 
expected at 
29 December 
2011
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£m
Equities 8.00% 5.0 8.00% 14.0
Property 7.00% – 7.00% 0.4
Index linked bonds 2.60% 8.3 3.00% 7.7
Corporate bonds 3.80% 3.3 4.50% 6.8
Absolute return funds 6.00% 15.7
Other 1.00% 0.2 1.80% 1.5
32.5 30.4
Cineworld Cinemas Limited employs a building block approach in determining the long-term rate of return on pension plan assets. 
Historical markets are studied and assets with higher volatility are assumed to generate higher returns consistent with widely accepted 
capital market principles. The assumed long-term rate of return on each asset class is set out within this note. The overall expected 
rate of return on assets is then derived by aggregating the expected return for each asset class over the actual asset allocation for the 
Scheme at the accounting date.
18. Employee Beneﬁts continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
80
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£m
Expected return on scheme assets 1.5 1.5
Actuarial gains 0.2 0.3
Actual return on plan assets 1.7 1.8
Principal actuarial assumptions (expressed as weighted averages):
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
%
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
%
RPI Inflation 3.0 3.4
CPI Inflation 2.3 2.4
Rate of general long-term increase in salaries 4.0 4.4
Rate of increase to pensions in payment 2.0–3.3 2.0–3.4
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 4.5 4.8
Expected rate of return on assets 5.2 5.6
The mortality assumptions are based on the recent actual mortality experience of members within the Scheme and the assumptions 
also allow for expected future mortality improvements. The assumptions are that a member who retires in 2032 at age 65 will live on 
average for a further 23.5 years after retirement if they are male and for a further 25.9 years after retirement if they are female.
History of Plans
The history of the plans for the current and prior periods is as follows:
Balance Sheet
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£m
53 week 
period ended 
30 December 
2010 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
31 December 
2009 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
25 December 
2008 
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligation (28.2) (28.4) (28.3) (26.6) (24.4)
Fair value of plan assets 32.5 30.4 28.3 25.9 21.8
Surplus/(deﬁcit) 4.3 2.0 – (0.7) (2.6)
Experience Adjustments
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£m
53 week 
period ended 
30 December 
2010 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
31 December 
2009 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
25 December 
2008 
£m
Experience gain/(loss) on plan assets 0.2 0.3 0.7 2.5 (4.4)
Experience gain/(loss) on plan liabilities 1.0 – 0.2 2.7 –
The Group expects to contribute approximately £1.6m to its defined benefit plans in the next financial period.
Deﬁned Contribution Plans
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans.
The total expense relating to these plans in the current year was £0.4m (2011: £0.4m).
Share-Based Payments
As at 27 December 2012 there were three types of share option and share schemes: the Employee Sharesave Scheme, the Cineworld 
Group Performance Share Plan and the Company Share Option Plan.
Grants were made under the sharesave scheme in 2007, 2008 and 2012.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  
continued
18. Employee Beneﬁts continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
81
The fair value is measured at the grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to 
the options.
Period ended 29 December 2011
A charge of £28,000 was recorded in the income statement for the period in respect of the 2008 Sharesave scheme grant.
Awards over 30,496 shares lapsed in 2011.
Period ended 27 December 2012
A charge of £86,000 was recorded in the income statement for the period in respect of the 2012 Sharesave scheme grant.
Awards over 38,699 shares lapsed in 2012.
The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan (“PSP”)
Period ended 29 December 2011
Under the PSP, awards of conditional shares or nil cost options can be made that vest or become exercisable after three years subject 
to continued employment and generally the achievement of specified performance conditions as follows:
 30% of the shares under the award will vest if the average annual growth in earnings per share (“EPS”) (calculated by comparing  
the EPS for the financial year ended 30 December 2010 and the EPS for the financial year ending 26 December 2013) is not less 
than 3.2%;
 100% of the shares under the Award will vest if the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial 
year ended 30 December 2010 and the EPS for the financial year ending 26 December 2013) is at least 9.2%; and
 Where the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 30 December 2010 and the 
EPS for the financial year ending 26 December 2013) is between the two limits above, the Award shall vest on a straight-line basis 
between 30% and 100%.
Grants were made under the PSP scheme on 29 March 2011. Under these grants, awards over 395,961 shares were made in total. 
Awards over 258,398 shares were made with the performance conditions set out above. Further awards over 137,563 shares were 
made which will vest after three years subject to continued employment only, with no specified performance conditions attached.
EPS for the 2011 grant was defined as adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the financial 
statements.
Period ended 27 December 2012
Further grants were made under the PSP scheme on 26 March 2012 and 15 June 2012. Under these grants, awards over 947,681 
shares were made in total. Awards over 719,588 shares were made with the same performance conditions as the 2011 grant, but with 
reference to the financial years 29 December 2011 to 25 December 2014. Further awards over 228,093 shares were made which will 
vest after three years subject to continued employment only, with no specified performance conditions attached.
Awards over 68,948 shares lapsed during 2012.
EPS for the 2012 grant was defined as adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the financial 
statements.
A charge of £811,000 was recorded in the income statement in respect of the 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 PSP schemes.
The Company Share Option Plan (“CSOP”)
Period ended 29 December 2011
Grants under the CSOP were made on 29 March 2011. Under these grants awards over 76,816 shares were made in total. Awards 
over 9,602 shares were made with the same conditions as the 2011 PSP grant. Awards over 67,214 shares were made with no 
performance conditions attached.
EPS for the 2011 grant was defined as adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the financial 
statements.
A charge of £19,000 was recorded in the income statement in respect of the 2010 and 2011 CSOP schemes.
Period ended 27 December 2012
Further grants were made under the CSOP on 26 March 2012. Under these grants awards over 70,410 shares were made in total. 
Awards over 9,388 shares were made with the same conditions as the 2012 PSP grant. Awards over 61,022 were made with no 
performance conditions attached.
18. Employee Beneﬁts continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
82
Awards over 16,766 shares lapsed during 2012.
EPS for the 2012 grant was defined as adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the financial 
statements.
A charge of £26,000 was recorded in the income statement in respect of the 2010, 2011 and 2012 CSOP schemes.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options in equity settled schemes are as follows:
Weighted  
average  
exercise price 
2012 (£) 
Equity settled
Number of 
options  
2012 
Equity 
settled
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
2011 (£) 
Equity settled
Number of 
options 
2011 
Equity settled
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 0.33 1,093,643 0.40 1,605,515
Exercised in shares during the year 0.17 (420,576) 0.62 (607,096)
Settled in cash during the year –– 0.00 (169,856)
Granted during the year 0.79 1,707,972 0.35 472,777
Lapsed during the year 0.81 (124,413) 0.27 (207,697)
Outstanding at the end of the year 0.68 2,256,626 0.33 1,093,643
Exercisable at the end of the year –– 0.93 68,946
The average share price during 2012 was £2.26 (2011: £2.00).
Assumptions relating to grants of share options in 2011 were:
Scheme name Date of grant
Share price 
at grant (£)
Exercise  
price (£)
Expected 
volatility (%)
Expected life 
(years)
Dividend  
yield (%)
Risk free  
rate (%)
Fair value  
(£)
PSP 29 March 2011 2.08 nil 46 3.0 5.3 1.08 1.77
CSOP 29 March 2011 2.08 2.08 46 3–10 years 5.3 1.08 0.47
Assumptions relating to grants of share options in 2012 were:
Scheme name Date of grant
Share price 
at grant (£)
Exercise  
price (£)
Expected 
volatility (%)
Expected life 
(years)
Dividend  
yield (%)
Risk free  
rate (%)
Fair value  
(£)
PSP 26 March 2012 2.13 nil 44 3.0 5.3 0.90 1.82
15 June 2012 2.15 nil 44 3.0 5.3 0.90 1.82
CSOP 26 March 2012 2.13 2.13 44 3–10 years 5.3 0.90 0.46
The total expenses recognised for the period arising from share-based payments are as follows:
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£m
Share-based payments expenses 0.9 0.6
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  
continued
18. Employee Beneﬁts continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
83
19. Provisions
Property 
provisions 
£m
Reorganisation 
provision
Total 
provisions 
£m
Balance at 29 December 2011 10.2 1.4 11.6
Non-current 0.9 1.4 2.3
Current 9.3 – 9.3
Total 10.2 1.4 11.6
Balance at 29 December 2011 10.2 1.4 11.6
Provisions made/(released) during the period 1.6 (1.4) 0.2
Effect of change in discount rate during the period 0.4 – 0.4
Utilised against rent during the period (1.6) – (1.6)
Unwound against interest during the period 0.8 – 0.8
Balance at 27 December 2012 11.4 – 11.4
Current 0.3 – 0.3
Non-current 11.1 – 11.1
Total 11.4 – 11.4
Property provisions relate to onerous leases, dilapidations and other property liabilities. The majority of the property provision relates 
to onerous leases being the rent payable on particular cinema sites that is in excess of the economic benefits expected to be derived 
from their operation on a discounted basis. The remaining provision will be utilised over the period to the next rent review date or the 
remaining lease life depending on the term of the lease. This is between one and thirty years (see further analysis below). The discount 
rate used in the period was 8.4% (2011: 9.0%). The reorganisation provision related to the digital conversion and harmonising audio/
visual work across the whole circuit.
27 December 
2012 
£m
29 December 
2011 
£m
Expected timing for utilisation of property provisions
Analysed as:
Within one year 0.3 0.9
Between one and two years 0.5 0.8
In the second to fifth years 1.5 2.9
Over five years 9.1 5.6
11.4 10.2
20. Capital and Reserves
Share Capital
27 December 
2012 
£m
29 December 
2011 
£m
Cineworld Group plc
Allotted, called up and fully paid
149,619,268 (2011: 142,348,693) ordinary shares of £0.01 each 1.5 1.4
During the year a total of 7,270,575 ordinary shares of nominal value £0.01 were issued. 343,205 (2011: 221,099) ordinary shares 
were part of the performance share plan and 77,371 (2011: 385,997) were part of the employee sharesave scheme. On 7 December 
2012 6,849,999 ordinary shares were issued and the proceeds used to repay borrowings incurred in connection with the acquisition of 
Picturehouse. Total consideration of £16,469,000 (2011: £379,000) was received. This is after deducting transaction costs.
Translation Reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign 
operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
Hedging Reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the liability in relation to the interest rate swap entered into, to hedge against variable interest  Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
84
payments on £60.0m (2011: £65.0m) of the total £124.0m (2011: £97.0m) of bank debt. As hedge accounting has been adopted the 
gains/losses are recorded through equity until such time as the cash flows being hedged occur, when they are recycled to the income 
statement.
Dividends
The following dividends were recognised during the period:
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Interim 5.4 5.1
Final (for the preceding period) 10.6 10.1
16.0 15.2
An interim dividend of 3.8p per share was paid on 5 October 2012 to ordinary shareholders (2011: 3.6p). The Board has proposed a 
final dividend of 8.0p per share, which will result in total cash payable of approximately £12.0m on 4 July 2013 (2011: 7.4p per share, 
total final dividend £10.6m). In accordance with IAS10 this had not been recognised as a liability at 27 December 2012.
21. Financial Instruments
Overview
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
 Credit risk
 Liquidity risk
 Market risk
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and processes 
for measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of capital.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. The 
Board has established the Risk Management Committee, which is responsible for developing and monitoring the Group’s risk 
management policies. The committee reports regularly to the Board of Directors on its activities.
The Group’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk 
limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to 
reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities. The Group, through its training and management standards and 
procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and 
obligations.
The Group’s Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and 
procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks by the Group. The Group’s Audit 
Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit. Internal Audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of certain risk 
management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual 
obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and investment securities.
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. However, due to the nature of the Group’s business, trade 
receivables are not significant which limits the related credit risk. The Group’s trade receivables are disclosed in Note 15. Of the total 
balance of £4.5m (2011: £1.9m) due 77% (2011: 68%) are within credit terms. A further 4% (2011: 13%) outside credit terms cleared 
after the period end, and before signing of the financial statements. The bad debt provision as at 2012 is £11,000 (2011: £11,000), 
with a bad debt expense in the period of £nil (2011: £11,000). Based on past experience the Group believes that no impairment 
allowance is necessary in respect of the trade receivables that are past due. In 2012 the amount of trade receivables past due but 
unimpaired is £1.0m (2011: £0.6m). The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is also limited because the 
counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings.
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to 
managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both 
normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  
continued
20. Capital and Reserves continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
85
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of netting 
agreements. The amounts disclosed in the table are contractual undiscounted cash flows, including interest payments calculated using 
interest rates in force at each balance sheet date, so will not always reconcile with the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet.
27 December 2012
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Contractual 
cash flows 
£m
6 months  
or less 
£m
6–12  
months 
£m
1–2  
years 
£m
2–5  
years 
£m
More than 
5 years 
£m
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities
Unsecured bank loans 127.3 (136.7) (4.6) (4.6) (8.9) (118.6) –
Finance lease liabilities 7.0 (12.0) (0.4) (0.4) (0.8) (1.9) (8.5)
Trade and other payables 29.8 (29.8) (29.8) – – – –
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities
Interest rate swap 1 1.75 (1.9) (0.4) (0.3) (0.6) (0.6) –
Interest rate swap 2 1.75 (1.9) (0.4) (0.3) (0.6) (0.6) –
167.6 (182.3) (35.6) (5.6) (10.9) (121.7) (8.5)
During 2011 the Group refinanced its existing debt. The new five year facility consists of a £70m term loan with repayments of £2.5m 
every six months commencing June 2011 and a revolving facility of £100m. As at the period end, £60m (2011: £65m) of the term loan 
plus £64m (2011: £32m) of the revolving facility were drawn down. The bank loan is unsecured and subject to two covenants: the ratio 
of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net finance charges.
29 December 2011
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Contractual 
cash flows 
£m
6 months  
or less 
£m
6–12  
months 
£m
1–2  
years 
£m
2–5  
years 
£m
More than 
5 years 
£m
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities
Unsecured bank loans 95.7 (106.4) (3.7) (3.7) (7.3) (24.7) (67.0)
Finance lease liabilities 6.7 (12.2) (0.3) (0.3) (0.6) (1.9) (9.1)
Trade and other payables 15.2 (15.2) (15.2) – – – –
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities
Interest rate swap 1 0.7 (0.7) (0.7) – – – –
Interest rate swap 2 1.9 (2.1) (0.2) (0.3) (0.5) (1.1) –
Interest rate swap 3 1.9 (2.1) (0.2) (0.3) (0.5) (1.1) –
122.1 (138.7) (20.3) (4.6) (8.9) (28.8) (76.1)
Cash Flow Hedges
The following table indicates the periods in which the discounted cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are 
expected to occur.
27 December 2012
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Expected 
cash flows 
£m
6 months  
or less 
£m
6–12  
months 
£m
1–2  
years 
£m
2–5  
years 
£m
More than 
5 years 
£m
Interest rate swaps:
Swap 1 (1.75) (1.75) (0.1) (0.55) (0.55) (0.55) –
Swap 2 (1.75) (1.75) (0.1) (0.55) (0.55) (0.55) –
(3.5) (3.5) (0.2) (1.1) (1.1) (1.1) –
21. Financial Instruments continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
86
29 December 2011
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Expected 
cash flows 
£m
6 months  
or less 
£m
6–12  
months 
£m
1–2 years 
£m
2–5 years 
£m
More than 
5 years 
£m
Interest rate swaps:
Swap 1 (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) – – – –
Swap 2 (1.9) (1.9) (0.2) (0.3) (0.5) (0.9) –
Swap 3 (1.9) (1.9) (0.2) (0.3) (0.5) (0.9) –
(4.5) (4.5) (1.1) (0.6) (1.0) (1.8) –
It is expected that the expected cash flows will impact profit and loss when the cash flows occur.
Market Risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the 
Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control 
market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
Foreign Currency Risk
The majority of the Group’s operations are in the United Kingdom and hence for these operations there is no exposure to foreign 
currency risk other than in respect of certain purchases that may be denominated in currencies other than sterling. In addition there is 
an operation in Ireland where non-sterling revenues, purchases, financial assets and liabilities and cash flows can be affected by 
movements in Euro rates. However, the exposure is limited as euro operations are not significant. A 10% increase/(decrease) in the 
value of €1 against sterling would increase/decrease the profit before tax for 2012 by approximately £7,400 (2011: £42,000). A 10% 
increase/(decrease) in the value of €1 against sterling would increase/decrease equity in 2012 by approximately £34,000 
(2011:  £5,000).
Interest Rate Risk
The Group’s policy is to manage its cost of borrowing by securing fixed interest rates on a portion of its term loan.
Whilst fixed-rate interest-bearing debt is not exposed to cash flow interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the Group to enjoy a 
reduction in borrowing costs in markets where rates are falling.
In addition, the fair value risk inherent in fixed-rate borrowing means that the Group is exposed to unplanned costs should debt be 
restructured or repaid early as part of the liquidity management process.
The Group uses interest rate swaps agreed with other parties to hedge a portion of its bank loans that have fixed interest rates. 
Interest rate swaps are measured at fair value, which have been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing 
interest rates.
At the period end the Group had two (2011 period end: three) interest rate swaps which hedged 100% (2011: 100%) of the Group’s 
variable rate unsecured term loan. The revolver loan, which was £64m (2011: £32m) at the end of the period, is not hedged. As a 
result, there is no impact on the income statement relating to the hedged bank debt as a result of any changes in interest rates.
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments was:
Carrying amount
2012 2011
Fixed rates instruments
Financial liabilities (interest rate swap) (3.5) (4.5)
Financial liabilities (unsecured bank loans – hedged portion) (60.0) (65.0)
(63.5) (69.5)
Variable rate instruments
Financial liabilities (unsecured bank loans – unhedged portion) (64.0) (32.0)
£60m (2011: £65m) of the variable rate financial liability is hedged via the interest rate swap with the balance attracting a variable 
interest rate. In both 2011 and 2012, the balance is the revolving facility.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  
continued
21. Financial Instruments continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
87
Fair Value Sensitivity Analysis for Fixed Rate Instruments
The Group accounts for fixed-rate derivative financial instruments (interest rate swaps) at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement 
to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement except where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting when recognition 
of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged. Hedge accounting was adopted from the year ended 27 
December 2007 on the swap taken out in May 2007.
Two new swaps were taken out during 2011. A change of 100 basis points in interest rates would have increased equity by £1m (2011: 
£1m) or decreased equity by £1m (2011: £1m) for each swap and would have increased or decreased profit or loss by £nil (2011: £nil). 
In 2011, for the pre-existing swap, a change of 100 basis points in interest rates would have increased equity by £nil or decreased 
equity by £nil and would have increased or decreased profit or loss by £0.1m. This swap terminated in April 2012.
Cash Flow Sensitivity Analysis for Variable Rate Instruments
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit or loss by the 
amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. The 
analysis is performed on the same basis for 2011.
Profit or loss Equity
Effect in GBP thousands
100 bp 
increase
100 bp 
decrease
100 bp 
increase
100 bp 
decrease
27 December 2012
Variable rate instruments (1,029) 1,029 (1,029) 1,029
Interest rate swap 621 (621) 621 (621)
Cash flow sensitivity (net) (408) 408 (408) 408
29 December 2011
Variable rate instruments (1,005) 1,005 (1,005) 1,005
Interest rate swap 638 (638) 638 (638)
Cash flow sensitivity (net) (367) 367 (367) 367
Fair Values
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in 
the financial statements.
Short-term debtors, creditors and cash and cash equivalents have been excluded from the following disclosures on the basis that their 
carrying amount is a reasonable approximation to fair value.
Carrying 
amount 
27 December 
2012 
£m
Fair value 
December 
2012 
£m
Carrying 
amount 
29 December 
2011 
£m
Fair value 
29 December 
2011 
£m
Unsecured bank loans 127.3 120.8 95.7 89.0
Finance lease liabilities 7.0 7.0 6.7 6.7
Interest rate swaps 3.5 3.5 4.5 4.5
137.8 131.3 106.9 100.2
The fair value of derivatives and borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest 
rates. The carrying amount of unsecured bank loans is stated net of debt issuance costs and the fair value is stated gross of debt 
issuance costs and is calculated using the market interest rates.
The difference between net carrying amount and estimated fair value reflects unrealised gains or losses inherent in the instruments 
based on valuations at 27 December 2012 and 29 December 2011. The volatile nature of the markets means that values at any 
subsequent date could be significantly different from the values reported above.
21. Financial Instruments continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
88
Fair Value Hierarchy
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method. The different levels have been defined as 
follows:
 Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
 Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the assets or liability, either directly (i.e. as 
prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices);
 Level 3: inputs for the assets or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Level 1 
£m
Level 2 
£m
Level 3 
£m
Total 
£m
27 December 2012
Derivative financial instruments – 3.5 – 3.5
29 December 2011
Derivative financial instruments – 4.5 – 4.5
There have been no transfers between levels in 2012. No other financial instruments are held at fair value.
Capital Management
The capital structure of the Group consists of the following items:
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 10.9 5.5
Bank loans 127.3 95.7
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 220.1 192.3
347.4 293.5
The Board of Directors constantly monitor the ongoing capital requirements of the business and have reviewed the current gearing 
ratio, being the ratio of bank debt to equity and consider it appropriate for the Group’s current circumstances. Ratios used in the 
monitoring of debt capital include the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net finance charges.
The Group’s objective when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market 
confidence and to sustain future development of the business, to provide returns for shareholders and to optimise the capital structure 
to reduce the cost of capital. The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the return on 
capital, which the Group defines as total shareholders’ equity and the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders.
22. Operating Leases
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals commitments are as follows:
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Other 
£m
27 December 
2012 
£m
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Other 
£m
29 December 
2011 
£m
Less than one year 52.2 0.2 52.4 51.6 0.3 51.9
Between one and five years 210.4 0.7 211.1 207.2 1.2 208.4
More than five years 883.6 – 883.6 789.0 – 789.0
1,146.2 0.9 1,147.1 1,047.8 1.5 1,049.3
The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be received are £6.5m (2011: £7.0m).
23. Capital Commitments
Capital commitments at the end of the financial period for which no provision has been made:
27 December 
2012 
£m
29 December 
2011 
£m
Contracted 7.5 2.8
Capital commitments at the end of the financial period relate to new sites (2011: £2.8m).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  
continued
21. Financial Instruments continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
89
24. Related Parties
The compensation of the Directors is as follows:
Salary and fees  
including bonus 
£000
Compensation  
for loss of ofﬁce 
£000
Pension 
contributions 
£000
Total 
£000
52 weeks ended 27 December 2012
Total compensation for Directors 1,548 – 144 1,692
Salary and fees  
including bonus 
£000
Compensation  
for loss of office 
£000
Pension 
contributions 
£000
Total 
£000
52 weeks ended 29 December 2011
Total compensation for Directors 1,375 342 115 1,832
Share-based compensation benefit charges for Directors was £0.2m in 2012 (2011: £0.2m).
Other Related Party Transactions
Digital Cinema Media Limited (“DCM”) is a joint venture between the Group and Odeon Cinemas Holdings Limited set up on 10 July 
2008. Revenue receivable from DCM in the 52 week period ending 27 December 2012 totalled £14.4m (2011: £13.6m) and as at 27 
December 2012 £0.2m (2011: £1.3m) was due from DCM in respect of receivables. In addition the Group has a working capital loan 
outstanding from DCM of £0.5m (2011: £0.5m). Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
90
Note
27 December 
2012 
£000
27 December 
2012 
£000
29 December 
2011 
£000
29 December 
2011 
£000
Fixed assets
Investments 27 133,394 132,471
Current assets
Debtors 28 118,082 141,667
Cash at bank – 38
118,082 141,705
Creditors: amount falling due within one year 29 (31,404) (81,842)
Net current assets 86,678 59,863
Net assets 220,072 192,334
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 30 1,496 1,423
Share premium account 30 188,072 171,761
Profit and loss account 30 30,504 19,150
Shareholders’ funds – equity 220,072 192,334
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 7 March 2013 and were signed on its behalf by:
Stephen Wiener Philip Bowcock
Director  Director
Company  
Balance Sheet
at 27 December 2012 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
91
Note
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£000
52 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011 
£000
Profit for the period 26,709 15,778
Dividends paid during the period 30 (15,990) (15,193)
Movements due to share-based compensation 30 635 158
Equity instruments issued 16,384 381
Net increase in shareholders’ funds 27,738 1,124
Opening shareholders’ funds 192,334 191,210
Closing shareholders’ funds 220,072 192,334
Company Reconciliation of  
Movements in Shareholders’ Funds
for the Period Ended 27 December 2012 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
92
25. Accounting Policies
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the 
Company’s financial statements.
Basis of Preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and under the historical cost 
accounting rules.
Information regarding the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position is set out in the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers’ Report on pages 12 to 22 and the Risks and Uncertainties 
section on pages 24 and 25. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described 
in the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers’ Report on pages 12 to 22. In addition Note 21 to the financial statements includes 
the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Going Concern
As highlighted in Note 16 to the financial statements, the Group meets its day to day working capital requirements through its bank 
facilities which consist of a five year facility of £170m, which comprises of a £70m term loan and £100m revolving facility. As at the 
period end, £60m of the term loan plus £64m of the revolving facility were drawn down. The current economic conditions create 
uncertainty particularly over (a) the level of demand for the Group’s products; and (b) the availability of bank finance in the foreseeable 
future.
The current bank facility is subject to two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net 
finance charges. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show 
that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facility, including compliance with the bank facility covenants. 
The Directors therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss 
account.
Under Financial Reporting Standard 1 the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds 
that its cash flows are included within the consolidated financial statements of Cineworld Group plc.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with 
entities which form part of the Cineworld Group where the Group controls 100% of the voting rights.
Investments
In the Company’s financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in 
value.
Impairment
The Group evaluates its investments for financial impairment where events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such 
assets may not be fully recoverable. When such evaluations indicate that the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable value, 
an impairment in value is recorded.
Deferred Taxation
The charge for taxation based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation 
and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
93
Classiﬁcation of Financial Instruments Issued by the Company
Following the adoption of FRS 25, financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity (i.e. forming part of shareholders’ 
funds) only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions:
a) they include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or 
financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company; and
b) where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no 
obligation to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company’s 
exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so 
classified takes the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share 
capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Share-Based Payment Transactions
The share options programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of options granted is 
recognised as an addition to fixed asset investments with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date 
and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of the options 
granted is measured using an evaluation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. 
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares options that vest except where forfeiture is 
due only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Shares appreciation rights are also granted by the Company to employees. The fair value of the amount payable to the employee is 
recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities. The fair value is initially measured at grant date and spread over 
the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment. The fair value of the share appreciation rights is 
measured based on an option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. 
The liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date and any changes in fair value recognised in profit and 
loss spread equally over the vesting period.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it recognises an increase in the cost of 
investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its subsidiary’s financial 
statements with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity. Amounts recharged to or reimbursed by the subsidiary are 
recognised as a reduction in the cost of investment in subsidiary.
Own Shares Held by Employee Beneﬁt Trust (“EBT”)
Transactions of the Group sponsored EBT are included in the Group financial information. In particular, the trust’s purchase of shares 
in the Company are debited directly to equity.
26. Staff Numbers and Costs
The Company pays no employees. The Directors of the Company, including Non-Executive Directors, salaries are recharged to the 
Company from its subsidiary Cineworld Cinemas Ltd. Total salaries paid to Non-Executive Directors were £358,000 (2011: £379,000). 
See pages 48 to 50 for details of Directors’ emoluments.
27. Fixed Asset Investments
Company
Shares in 
Group 
undertakings 
£000
Balance at 29 December 2011 132,471
Additions 923
Balance at 27 December 2012 133,394
Net book value
At 29 December 2011 132,471
At 27 December 2012 133,394
For details of £923,000 addition to investment see Note 30.
25. Accounting Policies continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
94
Country of incorporation Principal activity Class
% of  
shares held
Subsidiary undertakings
Directly Held
Augustus 1 Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Indirectly Held
Augustus 2 Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cine-UK Limited England and Wales Cinema operation Ordinary 100
Cineworld Cinemas Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Cinemas Limited England and Wales Holding company and 
cinema operation
Ordinary 100
Cineworld Finance Limited England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Cineworld Estates Limited England and Wales Cinema property leasing Ordinary 100
Cineworld South East Cinemas Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Exhibition Limited England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Gallery Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Gallery Cinemas Limited England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Slough Movie Centre Limited England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Adelphi-Carlton Limited Eire Cinema operation Ordinary 100
Cineworld Cinema Properties Limited England and Wales Property company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Elite Pictures Theatre 
(Nottingham) Limited
England and Wales Non-trading Ordinary 99.1
Classic Cinemas Limited England and Wales Retail services company Ordinary 100
Computicket Limited England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Digital Cinema Media Limited England and Wales Screen Advertising Ordinary 50
City Screen Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary, redeemable ordinary, 
deferred and preference
100
City Screen (Aberdeen) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Bath) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary and redeemable 
preference
100
City Screen (Brighton) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
CS (Brixton) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Cambridge) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Clapham) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen Developments Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
CS (Exeter) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
CS (Greenwich) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Liverpool) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
CS (Norwich) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Newman Online Limited England and Wales Software development 
and provider
Ordinary 100
City Screen (Oxford) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Southampton) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (SOA) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Stratford) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Picturehouse Bookings Limited England and Wales Ticket booking operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Virtual) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (York) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Picturehouse Entertainment Limited England and Wales Film distribution Ordinary 100
City Screen (3D) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Picturehouse Cinemas Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
27. Fixed Asset Investment continued
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
continued Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
95
28. Debtors
27 December 
2012 
£000
29 December 
2010 
£000
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 118,082 141,667
118,082 141,667
29. Creditors: Amounts Falling Due Within One Year
27 December 
2012 
£000
29 December 
2011 
£000
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 31,404 81,842
31,404 81,842
30. Share Capital and Reserves
Share capital 
£000
Share 
premium 
account 
£000
Profit and 
loss account 
£000
Total 
£000
At 29 December 2011 1,423 171,761 19,150 192,334
Profit for the period – – 26,709 26,709
Dividends paid during the period – – (15,990) (15,990)
Movements due to share-based compensation – – 635 635
Equity instruments issued 73 16,311 – 16,384
At 27 December 2012 1,496 188,072 30,504 220,072
For details of share issue see Note 20.
Share premium is stated net of share issue costs.
Equity instruments granted of £635,000 represents the £923,000 fair value of share options granted to employees of subsidiary 
undertakings less £288,000 in respect of cash dividends paid to option holders during the year. There is a corresponding increase in 
investments, see Note 27.
This element of the profit and loss reserve is not distributable.
31. Share-Based Payments
See Note 18 of the Group financial statements. Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
96
Directors
A H Bloom (Non-Executive Director and Chairman)
S Wiener (Chief Executive Officer)
P Bowcock (Chief Financial Officer)
D Maloney (Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director)
T McGrath (Non-Executive Director)
M King (Non-Executive Director)
R Senat (Non-Executive Director)
P Williams (Non-Executive Director)
Head Ofﬁce
Power Road Studios 
114 Power Road 
London W4 5PY
Telephone Number
020 8987 5000
Website
www.cineworld.co.uk
www.cineworldplc.com
www.picturehouses.co.uk
Place of Incorporation
England and Wales
Company Number
Registered Number: 5212407
Registered Ofﬁce
Power Road Studios 
114 Power Road 
Chiswick 
London W4 5PY
Final Dividend – 2012
Announcement 7 March 2013
Ex Dividend 5 June 2013
Record Date 7 June 2013
Payment Date 4 July 2013
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc 
15 Canada Square 
London E14 5GL
Joint Brokers
JP Morgan Cazenove 
20 Moorgate 
London EC2R 6DA
Investec Bank plc 
2 Gresham Street 
London EC2V 7QP
Legal Advisers to the Company
Olswang LLP 
90 High Holborn 
London WC1V 6XX
Shareholder Information  Cineworld Group plc
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road
Chiswick
London W4 5PY
020 8987 5000
www.cineworld.com
www.cineworldplc.com
www.picturehouses.co.uk
