 The best place  
to watch a movie
Annual Report and Accounts
2014
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 We are a business with  
a simple philosophy
Contents
Strategic Report
1 Highlights
2 At a Glance 
4 Chairman’s Statement 
10 Market Overview
12 Business Model 
14 Strategy and KPIs
16 Resources and Relationships 
18 Chief Executive Officer’s Review
26 Risks and Uncertainties
30 Corporate Responsibility
Governance
32 Directors 
34 Corporate Governance Statement
34 Chairman’s Introduction
35 Compliance Statement
36 Leadership
37 Effectiveness
38 Nomination Committee Report
39 Accountability
40 Audit Committee Report
44 Remuneration Committee
44 Relations with Shareholders
45 Directors’ Remuneration Report
46 Annual Report on Remuneration
56 Policy Report
63 Directors’ Report
69 Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities
70 Independent Auditor’s Report
Financial Statements
73 Consolidated Statement  
of Profit or Loss
74 Consolidated Statement of  
Other Comprehensive Income
75 Consolidated Statement  
of Financial Position
76 Consolidated Statement  
of Changes in Equity
77 Consolidated Statement  
of Cash Flows
78 Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
118 Company Balance Sheet
119 Company Reconciliation of 
Movements in Shareholders’ Funds
120 Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
IBC Shareholder Information
Our Vision…
To be the best place to watch a movie
Our Strategy is to…
1
Deliver a great cinema experience 
for all cinemagoers, every time
2
Continue to expand our estate and 
look for profitable opportunities  
to grow
3
Ensure that we enhance our  
existing estate so we deliver a 
consistent level of quality across 
the Group
4
Be leaders in the industry by 
offering customers the latest 
audio and visual technology
5
Drive shareholders value by 
delivering our growth plans in  
an efficient and effective way 1
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
+52.5%
Group revenue (£m)
53 weeks v 52 weeks (2013)
619.4
406.1
+33.7%
Dividend per 
share
(3)
 (p)
53 weeks v 52 weeks (2013)
13.5
10.1
+58.7%
Diluted EPS (p)
53 weeks v 52 weeks (2013)
21.9
13.8
+75.1%
EBITDA
(2)
 (£m)
53 weeks v 52 weeks (2013)
126.6
72.3
+159.5%
Proﬁt after tax (£m)
53 weeks v 52 weeks (2013)
54.5
21.0
+95.5%
Adjusted proﬁt 
after tax
(4)
 (£m)
53 weeks v 52 weeks (2013)
61.2
31.3
+72.8%
Adjusted proﬁt 
before tax
(4)
 (£m)
53 weeks v 52 weeks (2013)
75.0
43.4
+117.8%
Proﬁt before tax (£m)
53 weeks v 52 weeks (2013)
67.3
30.9
+31.2%
Adjusted diluted 
EPS
(5)
 (p)
53 weeks v 52 weeks (2013)
24.4
18.6
Highlights 2014
(1)
Other Key Highlights
 Combination with Cinema City Holding B.V. (“Cinema City”) completed on 28 February 2014.
 Group revenue growth of 52.2% on a statutory basis and 1.7% on a pro-forma
(6)
 basis.
 UK & Ireland revenue growth of 1.8% on 52 week v 52 week basis, maintaining market share of  
27.1% (2013: 27.0%) (Source: Rentrak).
 CEE
(7)
 & Israel revenue growth of 1.4% on a pro-forma basis.
 EBITDA growth of 75.1% on a statutory basis and 7.4% on a pro-forma basis.
 Profit before tax of £67.3m is stated after non-recurring costs and amortisation of £7.7m resulting  
in adjusted profit before tax of £75.0m, growth of 72.8%.
 Profit after tax of £54.5m is stated after tax adjusted non-recurring costs and amortisation of  
£6.7m resulting in adjusted profit after tax of £61.2m, growth of 95.5%.
 Adjusted diluted EPS
(5)
 growth of 31.2%.
 Full year dividend increased by 33.7% to 13.5p on a rights adjusted basis
(3)
.
 Net cash generated from operating activities of £86.1m, representing growth of 54.9%.
 As reported at the end of H1, annualised synergies from Cinema City combination now expected  
to be £5m; £2m target already surpassed.
(1) The statutory results for Cineworld Group plc the “Group” include the results of Cineworld Cinemas and Picturehouse for the 53 week period ended  
1 January 2015 and the results of Cinema City for the 44 week period ended 1 January 2015.
(2) EBITDA is defined as operating profit before depreciation and amortisation, impairment charges, onerous lease and other non-recurring charges, 
transaction and reorganisation costs and refinancing costs.
(3) The 2013 interim dividend per share has been adjusted to take account of the rights issue of 8 for 25 on 14 February 2014. The interim dividend per share 
for 2013 as previously reported was 4.1p, which resulted in a 2013 total dividend per share of 10.5p (10.1p on a rights adjusted basis).
(4) Adjusted profit before tax is calculated by adding back amortisation of intangible assets (excluding acquired movie distribution rights) and other one-off 
income or expense totalling £7.7m. Adjusted profit after tax is calculated by adding back amortisation of intangible assets (excluding acquired movie 
distribution rights) and other one-off income or expense totalling £7.7m and adjusting for the tax impact of such items (£1.0m) and the Group’s current 
year effective tax rate (20.3%) (please refer to Note 5 to the financial statements).
(5) The 2014 adjusted diluted earnings per share have been adjusted for the first 48 days of the period to take into account of the rights issue of 8 for 25 
shares on 14 February 2014. The 2013 adjusted diluted earnings per share have also been adjusted to take account of the rights issue in order to present  
a comparator. 
(6) Pro-forma results refer to the Group’s performance had Cinema City been consolidated for the entirety of the period and have been calculated by 
reference to the acquired management accounts of Cinema City. For the purposes of percentage movements, the impact of the 53rd week has been 
eliminated and movements in performance have been calculated on a constant currency basis. 
(7) CEE is defined as Central and Eastern Europe and includes Poland, Hungary, Romania, Czech Republic, Bulgaria and Slovakia. 2
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
At a Glance
Cineworld operates in nine different 
countries. We have 203 cinemas with 
1,875 screens. We are the second 
largest cinema business in Europe  
and the number one or two  
(by number of screens) in  
each country of operation.
Brands
Cineworld’s four principal brands are:
1 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
3
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
2
6
7
3
4
8
5
Theatre Operations
UK, Ireland and Central Europe
In 2014, there were over 82 million customer 
admissions across all our cinemas. We are currently 
scheduled to open 504 screens over the next three 
years, 328 in CEE/Israel and 176 in the UK.
 
Country
No. of 
Cinemas
 
Screens
1 UK & Ireland 102 897
2 Poland 31 339
3 Hungary 20 176
4 Romania 17 154
5 Israel 11 104
6 Czech Republic 13 111
7 Slovakia 3 29
8 Bulgaria 6 65
Total 203 1,875 4
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to report that 2014 was  
a successful and exciting year for the 
Cineworld Group and its shareholders. 
Despite a relatively quiet year for the 
cinema exhibition industry in general 
which saw worldwide admissions drop 
compared to the previous year, Cineworld 
continued to grow revenues and earnings 
and declared an increased dividend.
Shareholders will recall that at the start 
of the year the Group announced a 
transaction which combined Cineworld 
and Cinema City. In less than a year  
the results of that transaction have 
proved successful and exceeded our 
expectations. The Cineworld Group is 
now Europe’s second largest cinema 
chain. By the end of the year the Group 
was operating 1,875 screens in 203 
cinemas in nine different countries. We 
are currently scheduled to open a further 
504 screens over the next three years – 
328 of which are in Central and Eastern 
Europe and 176 of which are in the UK. 
This expansion will be financed from 
internal resources and provide excellent 
growth potential into the future.
On a pro-forma basis revenue increased 
by 1.8% in the UK & Ireland and we 
continued to outperform the market as a 
whole, with box office revenues increasing 
marginally by 0.1% despite a 3.7% decline 
in admissions. By way of contrast, 
admissions in CEE & Israel increased  
by 4.0%, which highlights the benefit  
of the diversified portfolio effect of 
operating in a number of countries. 
The Group’s balance sheet is strong and 
debt has reduced since the acquisition of 
Cinema City with our EBITDA to net debt 
ratio at the year end at 2.1 times compared 
to the 2.3 times we reported at the half 
year. This strength and the sound 
operating performance has enabled the 
Board to declare a full year dividend of 
13.5p per share, which represents 33.7% 
growth in cash dividends for shareholders 
who took up their rights as part of the 
rights issue on 14 February 2014. I am 
particularly proud of the fact that the 
Group has increased its dividend every 
year since the Company was listed in 
2007, despite some very challenging 
years for the UK economy as a whole.
Following the combination with Cinema 
City, Mooky Greidinger joined our Board 
as CEO in succession to Steve Wiener. 
Mooky has been in the cinema business 
for close to 40 years and is internationally 
recognised as one of the leading operators 
in the industry. We are fortunate to have 
him as CEO. Israel Greidinger, also very 
experienced in the industry, was originally 
appointed as COO, but after the initial 
review of roles and structure it was 
decided to appoint him as Deputy CEO 
as we believed it was a more appropriate 
title for his role in the Company.
Scott Rosenblum (a New York lawyer who 
is experienced in corporate governance 
matters) and Arni Samuelsson (an 
independent owner and operator of 
cinemas in Iceland) were also appointed 
to the Board as Non-Executive Directors 
during 2014. It has been a pleasure 
welcoming our new Board members and 
they have already made a constructive 
contribution towards our affairs. I look 
forward to continuing to work with them 
in the future.
Following nine years of committed 
service, David Maloney and Peter Williams 
will lose their independent status as 
Non-Executive Directors, as defined by 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
and will step down from the Board at the 
next AGM. I would like to personally thank 
David and Peter for their dedication to 
Cineworld since its listing, and during  
a period which has seen the Company 
become the UK’s most successful cinema 
chain, expand internationally and this 
year enter the FTSE 250. They made a 
significant contribution and we wish both 
of them well for the future.
Following a diligent search process we 
have made an offer to Julie Southern to 
join the Board as a Non-Executive Director, 
and she will accordingly stand for election 
at the AGM. If so elected, it is intended 
that Julie Southern will succeed David 
Maloney as the Chair of the Audit 
Committee. Julie has an extensive 
background both in finance and consumer 
facing businesses and is well qualified to 
assume this role, which she also holds at 
Rentokil-Initial plc. 
It is also intended that Martina King,  
an existing independent Non-Executive 
Director, will succeed Peter Williams as 
the Chair of the Remuneration Committee. 
Martina has a great deal of experience in 
this area and has sat on the remuneration 
committees for a number of UK Listed 
businesses. A further Board appointment 
is anticipated presently and we will 
announce the revised composition of  
the respective Board Committees in  
due course. I am confident that these 
appointments will bring significant 
benefits to the Group and widen the  
skill set on the Board.
It goes without saying that we will 
maintain our strong culture of attaining 
the highest corporate governance 
standards. This is a matter that the Board 
takes extremely seriously. We continue 
to take note of issues that concern the 
environment, gender and other diversity 
and health and safety matters, and we 
periodically review and where appropriate 
improve our practices in those areas.
The prospects for the Group in 2015 are 
good. There is a strong film release 
programme and we are currently on track 
to open a further 20 cinemas during the 
year. I accordingly look forward to the 
future with confidence.
On behalf of myself and the Board I would 
like to express my appreciation to the 
Group’s management and all its employees 
for their hard work and achievements 
during 2014. They are a great team to 
work with, competent and committed, 
and I look forward to working with them 
in the future to continue to provide 
growth for our shareholders.
Anthony Bloom
Chairman
12 March 2015
The Cineworld Group is now Europe’s second 
largest cinema chain. By the end of the year 
the Group was operating 1,875 screens in  
203 cinemas in nine different countries. 5
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Anthony Bloom 
Chairman
“ The prospects for the Group in 
2015 are good. There is a strong 
film release programme and we 
are currently on track to open a 
further 20 cinemas during the 
year. I accordingly look forward 
to the future with confidence.”
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 6
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
841 
SCREENS
83 
SITES
UK & Ireland
Cineworld
Cineworld is the UK’s leading 
cinema chain by Box Office 
revenues. The cinemas are 
modern, well designed multiplexes 
with stadium and allocated seating, 
situated mostly in leisure and retail 
parks. Cineworld provides a high 
level of customer service to a large 
volume and wide demographic  
of customers and shows a very  
broad range of films; it is also 
unique in offering the highly 
successful ‘Unlimited’ card which 
allows customers access to 
unlimited films for one monthly 
subscription. During the year 
Cineworld opened more IMAX 
screens as well as introducing  
a new Superscreen, new seats 
and a UK first: 4DX.
The best place  
to watch a movie… 7
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
56 
SCREENS
19 
SITES
Picturehouse
Picturehouse provides a unique, 
local and intimate film viewing 
experience having created cinemas 
of high quality and of architectural 
merit. Picturehouse operates in  
12 towns and cities, with seven 
located in London ‘villages’, and 
continues to focus on cinemagoers 
aged 25 and over, students and 
those in the more affluent 
demographics. These audiences 
are reached by showing a mix of 
quality blockbusters, alternative 
content and specialised films. With 
five screens or fewer, Picturehouse 
Cinemas create a cosy atmosphere, 
offering freshly-cooked food, bars 
and other special events, making 
the experience a bit different to 
the big multiplexes.
The best place  
to watch a movie… 8
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
874 
SCREENS
90 
SITES
Central & Eastern Europe and Israel
Cinema City 
Cinema City operates in six Central 
and Eastern European countries 
and is one of the leading cinema 
chains in all the markets in which  
it operates. The cinemas are all 
modern, well designed multiplexes 
with four or more screens, have 
market leading technologies such 
as IMAX, 4DX and VIP and cater 
for a high volume of customers. 
The cinemas tend to have larger 
foyers than those in the UK, giving 
an impressive and welcoming feel 
and its proud local teams provide 
a great experience to their 
customers. All cinemas have 
allocated seating as standard  
and offer a wide range of popular 
films, many of which are local to 
the country in which the cinemas 
are situated. 9
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
104 
SCREENS
11 
SITES
Yes Planet 
Yes Planet and Rav-Chen are the 
two brands the Cineworld Group 
operates within Israel. Yes Planet 
is the market leader, offering IMAX, 
4DX and VIP screens to its 
customers. The styles and designs 
of the cinemas are a mixture of 
modern, multiplexes and local 
community cinemas, some of 
which were the first cinemas to  
be built in Israel. All cinemas have 
stadium seating, big screens and 
the latest digital technology. The 
cinemas show a range of popular 
films in comfortable surroundings 
to a large number of customers.  10
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Market Overview
External Factors
The cinema industry is dependent upon 
the customer choosing to spend 
disposable income on watching a movie. 
Customer support has been assisted by 
developments in technology such as 
digitalisation of cinemas, which have 
enabled a greater range of films to be 
offered, as well as streaming of live 
events such as opera and ballet. Superior 
experiences offered by technologies such 
as IMAX and 4DX are also ensuring that 
watching a movie in the cinema continues 
to be a unique experience which cannot 
be replicated at home or on a portable 
electronic device. Value for money also 
remains an important factor and cinema 
has tended to be a less expensive form 
of entertainment in the wider leisure 
markets in which the Group competes. 
Characteristics of the  
Cinema Market
The Group operates in nine countries 
and, as measured by number of screens, 
is either the number one or two operator 
in each. The nine countries are a blend of 
mature and growth markets which 
provides the Group with both organic 
and acquisition growth opportunities. 
Mature markets tend to be characterised 
by higher admissions per capita, higher 
average ticket prices and a much lower 
population per screen ratio. Mature 
markets in which the Group operates 
include UK and Israel. Growth markets 
have the opposite characteristics and 
provide great investment potential for 
the Group. Romania is an example of 
such a growth market. 
Structure of the Market and 
Competitive Landscape
There are four cinema chains in Europe 
with over 1,000 screens, representing 
20%
(1)
 of the total European market.  
The rest of the market is represented by 
smaller multiplex operators, which may 
only operate in one or two countries,  
and independent operators which are 
specific to local markets.
European Cinema Industry
(1)
Rank Company
No. of 
screens
1. Odeon 2,236
2. Cineworld Group 1,875
3. Vue 1,787
4. Pathé 1,008
5. Showcase 850
6. Cinemaximum 589
7. UGC 488
8. Yelmo 413
9. CGR 433
10. Kinepolis 401
(1) Source: Dodona 2013.
Over recent years key players have 
invested in growth markets where there 
is considered to be greater opportunities 
– for instance Vue, predominately UK 
based, acquiring Multikino in Poland. 
However the availability of funds to 
execute on an aggressive overseas 
expansion strategy remains a barrier  
to entry for most. 
Market Performance
The industry is dependent on the 
availability of films for screening and the 
appeal of such films to the cinema-going 
public. Box office revenue is driven by 
admissions and average ticket price. 
Admissions depend on the number, 
timing and popularity of films. The 
average ticket price is driven by film mix, 
the demographics of admissions and local 
economic factors such as local levels of 
disposable income and competition.
 
Box office performance during the  
year has been mixed, with no global 
blockbusters grossing over £1bn. The 
largest global release during the year 
was “Transformers: Age of Extinction” 
which grossed £0.7bn globally. There 
have been notable performances from  
a number of popular franchises including 
the final Hobbit film, “The Hobbit: The 
Battle of Five Armies” and the third 
Hunger Games title, “Hunger Games: 
Mockingjay Part 1”. Hollywood titles, 
such as these, tend to be popular across 
all the countries in which the Group 
operates. However in certain countries, 
especially Poland and the Czech 
Republic, local films are also popular  
and account for a greater percentage  
of annual admissions. 
The Group operates in nine countries 
and, measured by number of screens,  
is either the number one or two 
operator in each. Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
11
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Future Market Trends
Underpinning the overall success of the 
cinema industry, regardless of territory, 
is the need for a strong film slate. There 
is a promising release programme for 
2015 which includes “Fifty Shades of 
Grey”, “Avengers: The Age of Ultron”, 
“Star Wars: Episode VII”, “Fast and 
Furious 7”, the fourth and final Hunger 
Games title, “Hunger Games: Mockingjay 
Part 2” and the next Bond film, “Spectre”.
Other Income
Retail and screen advertising revenues 
are the significant additional sources of 
income for cinema chains. 
Popcorn and soft drinks remain the most 
popular retail stand items. There is 
however a growing demand for a wider 
range of products and the traditional 
offering is increasingly being 
supplemented with products such as 
branded coffee outlets.
Screen advertising revenue varies 
depending on the type of films screened, 
the number of minutes and value of 
advertising sold, the number of attendees 
who view the film and the placement of 
advertisements in relation to the start of 
the film. The lack of blockbuster films 
created added downwards pressure on 
screen advertising revenues during the 
period. However, this was mitigated by 
the flexibility of digital projection which 
significantly reduced the lead time 
between generating content and showing 
it on screen. The majority of cinema 
chains in Europe have digital projection 
and take advantage of this trend. 
Certain cinema chains, including Cinema 
City, may also generate other income by 
acting as the local country distributor for 
the main Hollywood studios or by directly 
acquiring the rights to specific titles and 
earning royalties from not only cinema 
exhibition but also Video on Demand, 
DVDs and TV screenings. 
Property Market and 
Development
The rate of new cinema openings is 
dependent upon local market conditions. 
In more mature markets (such as the 
UK), the rate of new cinema openings 
has been falling in recent years, partly 
due to the limited number and associated 
lead time of new retail and leisure 
developments. We have seen the 
converse in developing markets (such  
as Romania); uncertainty over the 
development timeframe in developing 
economies can result in delayed openings, 
however the number of development 
opportunities tends to be greater. 
Country Top 3 films Origin
UK &  
Ireland
1. The Lego Movie US
2. The Hobbit:  
The Battle of  
Five Armies
US
3. Inbetweeners 2 UK
Poland 1. Bogowie Poland
2. The Hobbit:  
The Battle of  
Five Armies
US
3. Miasto 44 Poland
Hungary 1. How to Train  
Your Dragon 2
US
2. The Hobbit:  
The Battle of  
Five Armies
US
3. Guardians of  
the Galaxy
US
Romania 1. The Hobbit:  
The Battle of  
Five Armies
US
2. Interstellar US
3. 300: Rise of  
an Empire
US
Israel 1. Zero Motivation Israel
2. The Hunger 
Games:  
Mockingjay  
Part 1
US
3. The Wolf of  
Wall Street
US
Czech 
Republic
1. The Hobbit:  
The Battle of  
Five Armies
US
2. Tri Bratri Czech 
Republic
3. How to Train  
Your Dragon 2
US
Slovakia 1. How to Train  
Your Dragon 2
US
2. Rio 2 US
3. 38 Slovakia
Bulgaria 1. The Hobbit:  
The Battle of  
Five Armies
US
2. Noah US
3. Lucy US 12
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Our  
Customers
Resources and 
Relationships
• Our People
• Key Commercial Relationships
•  Cus t omers
• Brands
• Property
• Technology
Cineworld is an international cinema 
chain operating in nine countries.
Business Model
Our primary customers are the cinema-going 
public who rely on us to provide the best 
entertainment experience in this field. As a 
consequence, we provide the films they want  
to see, when they want to see them, in the most 
appropriate venues and locations, using the best 
technology, with the right retail offers and great 
customer service. Our major sources of revenue 
are driven by admissions, and our ability to 
maximise this income is dependent on the quality 
of the film slate and on the experience we can offer. 
Our admissions also have a direct effect on our 
screen advertising revenues, and on our retail  
sales, primarily of food and drink.
Brand 
Our brands are a guarantee to our customers of the experience 
and service they can expect. We have tightly focused brands in 
each country in which we operate. Interaction with us on  
the day is critical, but we have extended the experience by 
developing unique cinema subscription schemes, such as our 
“Unlimited” programme, online discounts, and other tailored 
offers to encourage more and repeated visits. Our brands are 
also important to our partners, helping in our relationships  
with the film distributors, retail suppliers and advertisers.
Film
Delivering a high quality film slate is one of the key external 
drivers of our business. Whilst we do not have control over what 
is in the marketplace, our close and long-standing relationships 
with the film distributors are fundamental to providing the best 
selection for our customers at the right time.  13
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
• Box Office
• Retail
• Advertising
• Customer  
Experience
• Motivated T eam
• Financial Returns
• Earnings Per Share
• Dividends
Revenue Value Shareholder
Returns 
Reinvest
Drives repeat visits
Technology
Investment in technology is central to the viewing experience 
we offer, but also allows us to be much more flexible in the use 
of our auditoriums. By having an all-digital enabled estate, we 
can maximise revenue by scheduling film show times to reflect 
the commercial performance of each offering in real time. Once 
again, our brand, scale and experience are attractive to our 
partners in this area.
Property
Our property estate is deliberately capital light; nearly all of  
our properties are leased, so that we can deploy capital into 
enhancing the customer experience and growing the business. 
Our venues are located to suit our target audiences’ preferences, 
but are an attraction in their own right, driving footfall. As such, 
we can offer an important proposition for property developers, 
leading to mutually beneficial leasing agreements.
Our People
Underpinning all of this are our people. They are the external 
face of our business, and are all responsible for ensuring that 
our customers enjoy the best possible experience during their 
visit to our cinemas. 
Value
Value is generated by our emphasis on continually attempting 
to enhance revenue, profit generation and prudent cash 
management. We share the value we generate through the 
dividend, by rewarding our employees and by reinvesting  
in the business to both enhance and expand our offer. 14
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategy including Key Performance 
Indicators (“KPIs”)
What we are focused on What we achieved Key indicators
(1)
1
Delivering a great cinema 
experience for all cinemagoers, 
every time.
• We delivered admission growth in five of our nine territories 
on a pro-forma basis. 
• We have worked tirelessly to deliver a great experience to 
our customers by investing in the training and development 
of our people. 
• We have also continued to refine and develop our retail 
offerings to provide our customers with the widest possible 
choice to suit their tastes.
82.9m
–0.5%
Decline
Admissions
Admissions of 82.9m, representing a 
marginal decline of 0.5% on 52 v 52  
week pro-forma basis
(2)
.
£1.71 
+3.6%
Growth
Retail spend per person
Retail spend per person of £1.71 
representing an increase of 3.6% on  
a 52 v 52 week pro-forma basis
(2)
.
2
Continuing to expand our  
estate and look for profitable 
opportunities to grow.
• In the UK, during the year, we opened St Neots (six screens) 
and Telford (11 screens, one of which is an IMAX).
• In Romania, during the year, we opened Ploiesti (six screens) 
and Targu Jiu (six screens).
• At the end of the year we had a pipeline of 53 new cinemas 
(504 screens) signed which are contracted to come  
on-stream over the next three years.
• When we selected new sites for development we considered 
location, accessibility, competition and other local economic 
factors. Wherever possible we aim for a four to five year 
payback period.
4 years
Average payback period
Average payback period of sites  
opening in the last five years: 4 years 
(2013: 4 years).
3
Ensuring that we enhance our 
existing estate so we deliver a 
consistent level of quality across 
the Group.
• During the year we commenced the refurbishment  
of Milton Keynes, which enjoyed its grand reopening  
in January 2015. The cinema now has a Superscreen,  
a Starbucks and offers the first 4DX experience in the UK.  
It has also become a blue-print for future developments.
• We have completed a further seven refurbishments in CEE & 
Israel: three in Poland, two in the Czech Republic, and one in 
both Hungary and Israel.
£18.7m
Maintenance capital 
expenditure
Maintenance capital expenditure on 
existing estate during the year £18.7m 
(2013: £8.9m).
4
Being leaders in the industry by 
offering our customers the latest 
audio and visual technology.
• We continued to strengthen our partnership with IMAX by 
opening five new IMAX screens in existing cinemas and one 
new IMAX screen in a new site. 
• 4DX has been a popular format in CEE & Israel. At the time  
of the combination with Cinema City, 4DX was operating in 
five cinemas. Since then, the second 4DX screen in Poland 
has been installed and, as noted above, the first ever 4DX 
screen was installed in the UK. 
£7.5m
Revenue enhancing  
capital expenditure 
Revenue enhancing capital expenditure 
on existing estate during the year £7.5m 
(2013: £2.4m).
5
Driving shareholder value by 
delivering our growth plans in  
an efficient and effective way.
• Despite a relatively difficult year in the industry, in terms of 
lower admissions and the lack of blockbuster films, the 
Group as a whole has continued to deliver growth in 
underlying profitability. 
• At the time of the combination with Cinema City we 
announced potential operating cost synergies of £2.0m 
which was surpassed during the year and a revised target  
of £5.0m was set. 
£126.6m
+7.4%
Growth
EBITDA
EBITDA of £126.6m (2013: £72.3m) 
representing growth of 7.4% on a  
pro-forma basis
(2)
.
24.4p
+31.2%
Growth
Adjusted diluted EPS
(3)
 
Adjusted diluted EPS
(3)
 of 24.4p, 
representing growth of 31.2%  
(2013: 18.6p).
13.5p
+33.7%
Growth
Dividend per share
(4)
Dividend per share
(4)
 of 13.5p, 
representing growth of 33.7%  
(2013: 10.1p).
(1) 2014 key indicators for the Group include the results of Cineworld Cinemas and Picturehouse for the 53 week period ended 1 January 2015 and the results  
of Cinema City for the 44 week period ended 1 January 2015.
(2) Pro-forma growth measures reflect the Group’s performance had Cinema City been consolidated for the entirety of the period and the impact of the 53rd 
week eliminated. Where percentage movements are given, these reflect performance on a constant currency basis. 
(3) The 2014 adjusted diluted earnings per share have been adjusted for the first 48 days of the period to take into account of the rights issue of 8 for 25 shares 
on 14 February 2014. The 2013 adjusted diluted earnings per share have also been adjusted to take account of the rights issue in order to present a comparator.
(4) The 2013 interim dividend per share has been adjusted to take account of the rights issue of 8 for 25 shares on 14 February 2014. The interim dividend per 
share for 2013 as previously reported was 4.1p, which resulted in a 2013 total dividend of 10.5p (10.1p on a rights adjusted basis). Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
15
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
What we are focused on What we achieved Key indicators
(1)
1
Delivering a great cinema 
experience for all cinemagoers, 
every time.
• We delivered admission growth in five of our nine territories 
on a pro-forma basis. 
• We have worked tirelessly to deliver a great experience to 
our customers by investing in the training and development 
of our people. 
• We have also continued to refine and develop our retail 
offerings to provide our customers with the widest possible 
choice to suit their tastes.
82.9m
–0.5%
Decline
Admissions
Admissions of 82.9m, representing a 
marginal decline of 0.5% on 52 v 52  
week pro-forma basis
(2)
.
£1.71 
+3.6%
Growth
Retail spend per person
Retail spend per person of £1.71 
representing an increase of 3.6% on  
a 52 v 52 week pro-forma basis
(2)
.
2
Continuing to expand our  
estate and look for profitable 
opportunities to grow.
• In the UK, during the year, we opened St Neots (six screens) 
and Telford (11 screens, one of which is an IMAX).
• In Romania, during the year, we opened Ploiesti (six screens) 
and Targu Jiu (six screens).
• At the end of the year we had a pipeline of 53 new cinemas 
(504 screens) signed which are contracted to come  
on-stream over the next three years.
• When we selected new sites for development we considered 
location, accessibility, competition and other local economic 
factors. Wherever possible we aim for a four to five year 
payback period.
4 years
Average payback period
Average payback period of sites  
opening in the last five years: 4 years 
(2013: 4 years).
3
Ensuring that we enhance our 
existing estate so we deliver a 
consistent level of quality across 
the Group.
• During the year we commenced the refurbishment  
of Milton Keynes, which enjoyed its grand reopening  
in January 2015. The cinema now has a Superscreen,  
a Starbucks and offers the first 4DX experience in the UK.  
It has also become a blue-print for future developments.
• We have completed a further seven refurbishments in CEE & 
Israel: three in Poland, two in the Czech Republic, and one in 
both Hungary and Israel.
£18.7m
Maintenance capital 
expenditure
Maintenance capital expenditure on 
existing estate during the year £18.7m 
(2013: £8.9m).
4
Being leaders in the industry by 
offering our customers the latest 
audio and visual technology.
• We continued to strengthen our partnership with IMAX by 
opening five new IMAX screens in existing cinemas and one 
new IMAX screen in a new site. 
• 4DX has been a popular format in CEE & Israel. At the time  
of the combination with Cinema City, 4DX was operating in 
five cinemas. Since then, the second 4DX screen in Poland 
has been installed and, as noted above, the first ever 4DX 
screen was installed in the UK. 
£7.5m
Revenue enhancing  
capital expenditure 
Revenue enhancing capital expenditure 
on existing estate during the year £7.5m 
(2013: £2.4m).
5
Driving shareholder value by 
delivering our growth plans in  
an efficient and effective way.
• Despite a relatively difficult year in the industry, in terms of 
lower admissions and the lack of blockbuster films, the 
Group as a whole has continued to deliver growth in 
underlying profitability. 
• At the time of the combination with Cinema City we 
announced potential operating cost synergies of £2.0m 
which was surpassed during the year and a revised target  
of £5.0m was set. 
£126.6m
+7.4%
Growth
EBITDA
EBITDA of £126.6m (2013: £72.3m) 
representing growth of 7.4% on a  
pro-forma basis
(2)
.
24.4p
+31.2%
Growth
Adjusted diluted EPS
(3)
 
Adjusted diluted EPS
(3)
 of 24.4p, 
representing growth of 31.2%  
(2013: 18.6p).
13.5p
+33.7%
Growth
Dividend per share
(4)
Dividend per share
(4)
 of 13.5p, 
representing growth of 33.7%  
(2013: 10.1p). 16
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Resources and Relationships
Our business model and strategy  
are underpinned by key resources  
and relationships. 
Customers 
Fundamental to our success is the 
customer. By delivering our vision: “to be 
the best place to watch a movie”, we 
ensure that our customers have a positive 
experience and increase the likelihood  
of repeat visits. We aim to ensure that 
we deliver a broad range of films, a 
high-quality venue and retail offerings  
to suit our customers’ tastes, all of which 
contribute to achieving our vision.
We also have initiatives which aim to 
extend the relationship with the customer 
beyond a single visit. In the UK we have 
the “Unlimited” subscription service which 
is a fixed monthly (or annual) subscription 
enabling customers to watch as many 
2D films as they wish. We also have a 
number of membership schemes across 
the UK and other territories which offer 
discounts and allow us to interact with 
our customer base more frequently. 
Our People
Cineworld’s people are key to ensuring 
the ongoing success of the business. All 
our human resource initiatives are aimed 
at ensuring that Cineworld is a great place 
to work and, in turn a great place to 
watch movies. Our approach in the UK  
is well developed after many years of 
successful operations and our experience 
is being applied, as appropriate, across 
those territories which joined the Group 
during the year.
Employee engagement remains central 
to the HR strategy as the Group 
recognises that engaged employees  
go the extra mile for customers. In the 
UK we conducted our third employee 
engagement survey which showed  
that our results had improved by 10% 
compared to 2013 results, which 
demonstrated that the work being done 
by our teams is making a real difference 
to employees’ everyday lives. Based on 
this year’s survey, we have made a 
considerable further investment in people 
related initiatives in the UK, such as 
improving pay for our front of house 
teams above the minimum wage and 
introducing quarterly bonus schemes. 
Additionally, recognising the important 
role that supervisors play, we offered 
regular contracted hours to this 
management sector.
Learning and development continues to 
be a core part of our employee offering 
as we know that supporting people to 
achieve their potential enables them to 
play a full part in the teams in which they 
work. In 2014, the Cineworld Academy 
development programme offered high 
potential managers the chance to study 
for diplomas at levels 5 and 7 accredited 
by the Institute of Leadership and 
Management (“ILM”). On the back of 
this, we have implemented a Talent 
Development Review Framework which 
supports both our future expansion plans 
and our people by ensuring we have a 
strong pipeline of talent coming through 
the business. Cineworld developed and 
launched the industry’s first apprenticeship 
programme and 35 apprentices joined 
the Company in order to study on the 
Cineworld Advanced Apprenticeship. 
This provided an opportunity for young 
people to learn straight from school and 
offers an exciting career path into the 
cinema industry. Providing training at all 
levels demonstrates to our people that 
they can develop their skills and see a 
career path to becoming a General 
Manager with recognised qualifications 
whatever their starting point.
Training programmes are also operated 
across the rest of the Group outside the 
UK focusing on specific areas at lower 
levels, while more comprehensive training 
is provided at more senior levels of 
management. The plan is to expand these 
training courses gradually, building on the 
UK experience, to provide a more effective 
learning and development programme 
to help team members develop and 
perform to the best of their ability.
Our practice in the Group is to promote 
from within across all our territories. 
When a position becomes available, we 
look to fill it from within the Group as our 
people are generally the best qualified 
candidates, and we seek external people 
when specialist skill sets are required. 
The result is that a good percentage of 
our managers have worked at lower levels 
within the organisation and our people 
are more motivated as they can see 
possible career progression without 
leaving the business. 2015 will see an 
exciting year with many new cinema 
openings across the countries in which 
we operate – this will offer many new 
opportunities for our people to  
progress and also for new people  
to join the business.
Employees throughout the Group 
participate in the success of Cineworld  
in different ways. Some through bonus 
schemes – Cineworld is proud that for 
the 20th consecutive year bonuses  
were again paid to all qualifying people 
working in its UK business. Many of the 
bonus schemes are underpinned by a 
performance management framework, 
which reflects not only personal 
performance but also Group performance, 
and helps ensure that people are 
recognised and rewarded for their 
individual contribution to the business 
and on the overall Group results. 
Depending on their location, staff can 
also benefit from the success of the 
Company by participating in its SAYE 
Share Option Scheme.
Key Commercial Relationships 
We work hard at developing good 
relationships with a range of film studios, 
both major and independent. Our focus 
on driving cinema admissions and on 
providing our customers with a wide 
range of films has resulted in many 
opportunities for us to work with film 
studios on simplifying the film buying 
process and on promoting smaller films 
to a wider audience. We also work closely 
in association industry bodies, including 
The Federation Against Copyright Theft, 
to combat film piracy. Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
17
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
We build relationships with developers, 
landlords and local planners to ensure 
that we maintain a pipeline of new sites 
for the future. We also work closely with 
suppliers of technological enhancements, 
for instance IMAX and 4DX, which enables 
us to ensure that we are delivering the 
best possible experience to our 
customers, as well as looking to 
maximise box office revenues.
Strong relationships with our principal 
retail suppliers, such as Coca-Cola and 
Starbucks, enable us to work together 
on promotions that help drive retail 
sales. We seek to manage relationships 
with our suppliers fairly, and to work in 
accordance with our aspirations as set 
out in our ethical policy. 
Brands
The Group has four main brands: 
Cineworld Cinemas (UK & Ireland), 
Picturehouse (UK), Cinema City (Poland, 
Hungary, Romania, Czech Republic, 
Slovakia and Bulgaria) and Yes Planet 
(Israel). Cineworld Cinemas, Cinema City 
and Yes Planet are all multiplex brands. 
Our multiplex cinemas have five or  
more screens and focus on screening 
mainstream and popular films which 
appeal to a wide range of audiences 
including families, young adults and 
children. Each of the three multiplex 
brands is unique; however they are applied 
consistently in each territory to ensure 
that the local chains have a consistent 
and identifiable look and feel which 
distinguishes them from the competition. 
Picturehouse is an arthouse cinema chain 
with the majority of cinemas having four 
screens or less. Picturehouse also shows 
blockbuster films, but non-mainstream 
and specialised films are central to its 
programming. Event cinema is also  
part of its core offering. Each of the 
Picturehouse cinemas has its own 
individual style tailored to their locality 
and provides a unique ambience in 
contrast to that of our multiplex cinemas.
Property
We aim to promote customer admissions 
by offering well-sited, accessible and 
well-designed venues which make 
cinema-going an exciting and pleasurable 
experience. In the UK, our multiplex 
cinemas are often located in out-of-town 
or edge-of-town leisure and retail 
developments with parking facilities.  
In CEE & Israel our cinemas are more 
often located in shopping malls, both  
in city centres and suburban areas. 
Our arthouse cinemas typically have  
four screens or less. These cinemas tend 
to be located in urban areas and each 
have their own individual styles tailored 
to their locality and provide unique 
ambience in contrast to that of a 
multiplex cinema.
Technology
We believe that offering the latest 
technology will enhance the cinema-going 
experience for our customers and we are 
constantly developing our in-screen 
systems and trialling new technologies. 
Our whole estate has digital projection 
and we offer both 2D and 3D format 
films. We have 23 IMAX screens, with 
plans to expand this offering further. 
We have also developed our own 
large-screen format “Superscreen”. 
We now have five 4DX screens, including 
the first in the UK. 4DX is cinema system 
technology allowing the audience to 
view feature-length films in 4D with the 
choreographed mix of air, water, scent, 
motion and vibration.  18
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Moshe (Mooky) Greidinger
Chief Executive Officer
Performance Overview
53 week period ended 1 January 2015
52 weeks 
to 26 
December 
2013
UK & 
Ireland
CEE & 
Israel
Total 
Group
Total 
Group
Admissions 51.1m 31.8m 82.9m 51.5m
£m £m £m £m
Box office 288.7 110.5 399.2 279.9
Retail 99.2 42.7 141.9 94.1
Distribution Income – 14.6 14.6 –
Other Income 37.4 26.3 63.7 32.1
Total revenue 425.3 194.1 619.4 406.1
Cineworld Group plc results for the 53 week period ended  
1 January 2015 reflect the trading and financial position of 
Cineworld Cinemas, Cinema City and Picturehouse (the “Group”). 
Cinema City Holding N.V. and its subsidiaries (“Cinema City”) 
became part of the Group on 28 February 2014 and was 
consolidated for the final ten months of the period.
Unless explicitly referenced, all figures in the commentary below 
are on a pro-forma 52 weeks for 2014 v 2013 and calculated by 
excluding the trade of week ending 1 January 2015, the final 
week of the period. Where percentage movements are given, 
they reflect performance on a constant currency basis to allow 
a year-on-year assessment of the performance of the business 
eliminating the impact of changes in exchange rates over time. 
Constant currency movements have been calculated by applying 
the 2014 average exchange rates to 2013 performance.
Total revenue in the 53 week period ended 1 January 2015 was 
£619.4m. On a 52 week v 52 week pro-forma basis, this equates 
to an increase of 1.7%. Overall admissions decreased by 0.5%, 
with box office revenues increasing by 0.7%. The impact of  
the fall in admissions was mitigated by average ticket prices 
increasing by 1.3% to £4.72. Spend per person increased by 
3.6% to £1.67 resulting in retail revenue growth of 3.1%. Other 
revenues increased by 4.0%.
Overall, the impact of the 53rd week in 2014 resulted in 3.5%  
of revenue growth for the Group. 
UK & Ireland
Cineworld Cinemas
53 weeks to
 1 January 
2015
52 weeks 
to 26 
December 
2013
53 week v
 52 week 
52 week v 
52 week 
Admissions 47.9m 48.4m –1.1% –4.0%
£m £m £m £m
Box office 269.3 261.5 +3.0% +0.0%
Retail 89.3 84.6 +5.6% +2.2%
Other Income 27.0 23.4 +15.4% +10.6%
Total revenue 385.6 369.5 +4.4% +1.2%
Box Office
The principal income for Cineworld Cinemas is box office 
revenue. Except for the revenue generated by Cineworld 
Cinemas’ subscription services, box office revenue is a function 
of the number of admissions and the ticket price per admission, 
less VAT. On a 52 v 52 week basis, admissions in the period 
were down 4.0%, but an increase in average ticket price of 
4.0% resulted in flat box office revenues. Box office revenues 
generated by the UK & Ireland cinema industry as a whole were 
down 2.7% during the same period (Source: Rentrak).
The increase in average ticket price was in part due to an 
inflationary price rise during the period, but also reflective of 
the film mix. There were a higher proportion of adult admissions 
during the period, coupled with the impact of our successful 
strategy to expand our IMAX offering to an additional five sites, 
and the popularity of 3D. The proportion of customers attending 
during the weekend has increased slightly from the comparative 
prior year period, which has also contributed to the increase in 
average ticket price.
As a Group, we are committed  
to ensuring our customers have  
the best possible experience when 
visiting our cinemas.  Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
19
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Overall box office performance was affected by the weaker 
film slate for the year and also impacted by the Football World 
Cup in the Summer. In comparable 52 week periods, in the  
UK as a whole the top three films in 2014 grossed £100.4m 
(“The Lego Movie” – £34.3m, “Inbetweeners 2” – £33.4m and 
“Dawn of the Planet of the Apes” – £32.7m) compared to the 
top three films in 2013 which grossed £125.1m (“Despicable  
Me 2” – £47.4m, “Les Miserables” – £40.7m and “Iron Man 3” – 
£37.0m). The 53rd week benefited from the release of the final 
Hobbit film: “The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies”, which 
grossed £33.5m. The British film “Paddington” was also 
successful over the Christmas period grossing £28.0m.
Retail
Food and drink sales are the second most important source  
of revenue and represent 23.2% (2013: 22.9%) of Cineworld 
Cinemas’ total revenues. Total retail revenues were stronger  
at £89.3m (2013: £84.6m) and increased by 2.2% on a 52 v  
52 week basis.
Net retail spend per person increased by 6.3% in the period to 
£1.86 (2013: £1.75) partly due to the film mix, but also reflecting 
the expansion of Cineworld Cinemas’ retail offerings which 
targeted our mid-week customers and family visits to increase 
the overall spend.
During the year we opened a further two Starbucks coffee 
outlets, bringing the total to 13. All the outlets have traded in 
line with expectations and continue to grow their revenues. 
More openings are scheduled for 2015.
Other Income
Other Income includes all revenue streams other than box 
office and retail and represents 7.0% (2013: 6.3%) of total 
revenue. It increased to £27.0m (2013: £23.4m) and grew  
by 10.6% on a 52 v 52 week basis.
The largest single element of Other Income is screen 
advertising revenue. On a comparable year-on-year basis, 
screen advertising revenue has increased by 3.7%. Screen 
advertising revenue is collected through Digital Cinema Media 
Limited (“DCM”), our joint venture screen advertising business 
formed in July 2008. DCM’s primary function is to sell 
advertising time on cinema screens on behalf of Cineworld 
Cinemas, Picturehouse and its other clients. It also engages in 
related promotional work between advertisers and cinemas. 
The management team at DCM has been driving operational 
efficiencies and effectiveness and has been working on further 
exploiting the benefits of digital projection. DCM is now in a 
position to offer a greater number and a more diverse range  
of campaigns to its customers.
Picturehouse
53 weeks to
 1 January 
2015
52 weeks 
to 26 
December 
2013
53 week v
 52 week 
52 week v 
52 week 
Admissions 3.2m 3.1m +3.2% –0.3%
£m £m £m £m
Box office 19.4 18.4 +5.4% +2.4%
Retail 9.9 9.5 +4.2% +2.8%
Other Income 10.4 8.7 +19.5% +17.0%
Total revenue 39.7 36.6 +8.5% +6.0%
2014 was Picturehouse’s second full year as part of the  
Group. Acquired in December 2012 for £47.3m, Picturehouse  
is comprised of 19 cinemas focusing on a different audience 
from Cineworld Cinemas, with the cinemas being smaller  
(all have five or less screens) and more individual, and there being 
a greater emphasis on independent films and event cinema.
Overall, revenues for the period have increased by 6.0% on a 
year-on-year pro-forma basis. Box office revenue of £19.4m 
represents a 2.4% increase on the same basis reflecting a 
marginal decline in admissions and a 2.7% increase in average 
ticket price. As with Cineworld Cinemas, Picturehouse had a 
strong Christmas period, and the 53rd week accounted for an 
additional 3.5% increase in admissions.
Average spend per person performed in line with average 
ticket prices, resulting in an increase in retail revenue, despite 
the marginal decrease in admissions. Other Income increased 
by 17.0% (Other Income includes advertising income and 
screen-hire income).
Competition Commission
In October 2013, the Competition Commission published their 
decision on the acquisition of Picturehouse, resulting in the 
requirement to dispose of one cinema in each of Aberdeen, 
Bury St Edmunds and Cambridge. The process of disposing  
of a cinema in each of Aberdeen and Bury St was completed 
during 2014 and these sites are no longer part of the 
Picturehouse circuit. During the period the decision was  
taken to dispose of the Cineworld Cinemas site at Cambridge, 
which was completed on 29 January 2015. 20
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Central & Eastern Europe (“CEE”) and Israel
Cinema City
53 weeks to
 1 January 
2015
52 weeks 
to 26 
December 
2013
53 week v
 52 week 
52 week v 
52 week 
Admissions 39.8m 37.0m +7. 6% +4.0%
£m £m £m £m
Box office 140.5 132.8 +5.8% +2.0%
Retail 52.3 48.1 +8.7% +4.7%
Distribution Income 17.1 16.8 +1.8% –11.8%
Other Income 30.2 28.9 +4.5% +1.2%
Total revenue 240.1 226.6 +6.0% +1.4%
On 10 January 2014, Cineworld Group plc announced the 
combination with the cinema business of Cinema City 
International N.V. (“CCI”), a leading cinema business in seven 
countries across CEE & Israel (“Cinema City”), by means of an 
acquisition of the shares in Cinema City Holding B.V. (“CCH”),  
a subsidiary of CCI. The combination with Cinema City 
completed on 28 February 2014 and has created the second 
largest cinema business in Europe (by number of screens).
The results of Cinema City for the 44 week period ended  
1 January 2015 are included in the Group’s consolidated 
performance and position for the period. The key revenue 
streams for Cinema City are consistent with the rest of the 
Group with the exception of distribution income.
The information below represents the pro-forma trading 
performance of Cinema City as if it had been part of the  
Group for the full 53 weeks. The information is presented  
on a constant currency basis with comparative information 
extracted from acquired management accounts.
Box Office
The principal income for Cinema City is box office revenue, 
which is a function of the number of admissions and the ticket 
price per admission, less sales tax. Admissions and box office 
revenue in CEE & Israel increased by 4.0% and 2.0% accordingly. 
Average ticket prices declined by 1.9%, predominantly influenced 
by the introduction of discounted Wednesdays in our Polish 
cinemas. As with the UK, Hollywood films are popular in CEE & 
Israel and “The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies” was one 
of the top three films in five of the seven CEE & Israel territories. 
Family films account for a higher proportion of admissions in the 
region and “How to Train Your Dragon 2” was also a top-three 
film in a number of territories.
Poland performed particularly strongly during the year with 
admissions growth of 6.8%. Local product is important to the 
cinema-going public in Poland, and this year saw the releases 
of Bogowie and Miasto 44, which were two of the top three 
movies in Poland during the year, compared to no local movies 
of this size in 2013. The popularity of discounted tickets offered 
on Wednesdays, which was introduced during the year, 
contributed to the increase in admissions, but also factored in 
the decrease in the average ticket price of 1.5% in Poland.
Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria all achieved varying levels of 
admissions and average ticket price growth. Most notable was 
Romania which achieved admission growth of 14.5% (12.9% on 
a same cinema basis). Israel, the Czech Republic and Slovakia 
were marginally down on admissions compared to 2013.
Retail
Food and drink sales to our customers are the second most 
significant source of revenue and represent 21.8% (2013: 21.2%) 
of Cinema City’s total revenues. Total retail revenues were 
stronger at £55.6m (2013: £48.1m), an increase of 4.7% on a 
comparative 52 v 52 week basis.
Retail spend per person increased by 0.8% during the period. 
The greatest increases were achieved in Hungary (8.9%), Czech 
Republic (3.9%) and Slovakia (3.7%). The increase in Hungary 
was driven by an annual price increase compounded by a 
reduction in the local rate of VAT. The Czech Republic and 
Slovakia both achieved higher than average increases due to 
efficiencies driven by local cinema teams. Spend per person 
was generally stable in the other territories, with a small decline 
in Poland due to the increase in customers taking advantage of 
discounted Wednesdays who tend to spend less overall.
Distribution Income 
The Forum Film brand is Cinema City’s film distribution 
business. Forum Film operates across the CEE & Israel region 
and distributes films on behalf of the major Hollywood studios 
as well as owning the distribution rights to certain independent 
movies. Distribution revenues decreased by 11.8% compared to 
the same period in 2014. The decline is due to the phasing of 
titles around the year end and as a result fewer titles were 
distributed in the first half of 2014 compared to the first half  
of 2013. The key titles distributed by Forum Film in the period 
were “The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies” (the benefit of 
which continued into the start of 2015) and “The Hunger Games: 
Mockingjay Part 1”, both released in the last quarter of 2014. 
Other Income 
Other income in respect of the cinema operations includes on 
and off-screen advertising. Other income also includes revenues 
generated by New Age Media which is Cinema City’s advertising 
and sponsorship arm. New Age Media offers on and off-screen 
advertising to not only Cinema City cinemas but other cinema 
chains in the region. Revenues in respect of New Age Media 
increased by 6.8% to £21.6m on a 52 week v 52 week pro-forma 
basis. As with DCM, New Age Media has benefited from the 
increased flexibility offered by digitalised cinema projection. 
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Continued 21
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Initiatives and Developments
Cinema Expansion
One of the key strategic priorities of the Group is expansion. 
We have the financial capability, through the cash generative 
nature of our business and our debt facility, to pursue  
such opportunities.
In the UK, we opened a six screen cinema in St Neots and new 
11 screen cinema in Telford. Our strong financial position and  
good track record of driving high footfalls through our cinemas 
make us an attractive partner for property developers. We have 
23 further development sites contractually scheduled to open 
in the next three years, ten of which are scheduled for opening 
in 2015 (including two Picturehouse sites) and are currently  
under construction.
In general, the territories in which Cinema City operates are 
underpenetrated and have lower annual admissions per capital 
than in typical Western European markets such as the UK. The 
Group believes that there is significant potential for growth in 
cinema admissions by opening new cinemas in under-screened 
locations and is looking to capitalise on this opportunity.
Cinema City has a strong track record of driving growth, having 
more than doubled its number of screens over the last eight 
years. Cinema City has a pipeline of 30 new multiplexes  
(328 screens) signed which are contractually scheduled  
to come on-stream over the next three years.
In April 2014 we opened a new six screen multiplex in Ploiesti, 
Romania, followed by Targu Jiu, Romania (also six screens) in 
October. Cinema City is currently contracted to open ten new 
sites (105 screens) during 2015, of which nine are currently 
under construction. 
Other Initiatives and Developments
As a Group, we are committed to ensuring our customers have 
the best possible experience when visiting our cinemas. The 
Cineworld estate is generally older than that of Cinema City, and 
a number of key sites have been identified for refurbishment to 
ensure our high standards are consistently maintained across 
our estate. During the second half of 2014, we started this 
programme with the redevelopment of our Milton Keynes 
cinema, with a further four scheduled during 2015.
Our Milton Keynes cinema now includes the UK’s first 4DX 
screen, an exciting new additional sensory cinema concept 
which has proved popular with Cinema City customers in other 
territories. The Milton Keynes site was relaunched in January 
2015. We look forward to continuing the expansion of this 
format in CEE & Israel, with a further four 4DX screens in the 
pipeline for 2015, and identifying further opportunities for  
4DX sites in the UK.
In addition to the introduction of 4DX, Cineworld Cinemas has 
continued to expand the IMAX format across a selection of our 
sites. The IMAX screens opened during 2013 have performed 
well during the current year and Cineworld Cinemas operates 
the nine IMAX screens successfully. During the first half of  
2014 we opened a further three IMAX screens in existing sites 
(Stevenage, Ashton-under-Lyne and Castleford) which were 
followed by a further two in the second half of the year 
(Cheltenham and Chichester). Our 15th IMAX was opened in 
our new cinema in Telford in August 2014. A further two IMAX 
screens will be included in new sites scheduled for opening in 
2015 (Broughton and Solihull NEC), with more in the pipeline. 
Cinema City successfully operates ten IMAX screens and is 
planning to open a further two during 2015.
The Cineworld Unlimited programme is one of the pillars that 
underpin our strategy of growing other revenues and admissions. 
The Unlimited programme brings to the Group the financial 
benefits of regular subscription income thereby reducing the 
level of fluctuation in our revenues. It also brings operational 
benefits by encouraging repeat visits, often at off-peak times. 
This, in turn, enables us to improve capacity utilisation at our 
cinemas and provide more retail opportunities.
Key Trends and Factors Potentially Affecting  
the Future
Availability of Appealing Films and the Impact on 
Box Office and Retail Revenues
The Group’s business and future success depends on the 
availability of films for screening in its cinemas and the appeal 
of such films to our customers. The Group’s box office revenue 
is driven by admissions (one of our key performance indicators), 
which depend on the number, timing and popularity of the films 
we are able to show in our cinemas. Admissions in turn drive the 
two other main revenues for the Group, which are retail revenue 
(the sale of food and drink for consumption within our cinemas) 
and screen advertising income (revenue from advertisements 
shown on our screens prior to feature presentations).
The film slate, including the timing of film releases, in any given 
period affects our ability to draw customers to our cinemas. 
The films available in any given period also affects box office 
revenue and average ticket prices through the mix of different 
ticket types sold. Certain films tend to attract an adult audience 
that will purchase higher-priced adult tickets, whereas other films 
are intended for children whose tickets are sold at a discount. 
Certain films are also more likely to be shown in premium 
formats such as 3D and/or IMAX, which command higher prices 
per ticket. Retail revenue is also impacted by the types and 
lengths of films shown and the exhibition format.
The film slate for 2015 looks promising and a number of films 
are expected to be blockbusters. Most notable releases include 
the next Bond film “Spectre”, the new Star Wars title “Star 
Wars: Episode VII”, “Avengers: Age of Ultron” and “Fifty Shades 
of Grey”. The final Hunger Games film “The Hunger Games: 
Mockingjay Part 2” and a further Fast and Furious title “Fast 
and Furious 7” which are also expected perform at least in line 
with their previous instalments. There is also a strong family 
film slate which includes “Minions”, “Inside Out” and “Big Hero 6”. 22
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Digital Film and Technological Innovation
Technological innovation in the film exhibition industry has 
impacted both revenue and costs for the Group. All of our 
cinemas have now been converted to digital projection.  
The operating flexibility of digital projection technology has 
enhanced the capacity utilisation of the Group. Digital film 
content can be easily moved to and from auditoriums in our 
cinemas to maximise admissions. DCM and New Age Media  
can also offer shorter lead times and improved advertisement 
targeting to advertising customers.
As part of the Group’s move to digital projection, an agreement 
was entered into with the main Hollywood studios (via an agent 
where applicable) to recoup our investment in digital projection 
equipment by the Virtual Print Fee mechanism (“VPF”). VPFs 
are recognised on the date of the showing of the film it relates 
to and the rate of recognition depends on the number of 
screenings. The UK element of VPF income will start to decrease 
during 2015 and is expected to finish in early 2016, at which point 
the cost of the UK digital equipment will have been recouped.
Technical innovation has also allowed the Group to enhance 
the customer experience through premium formats such as 
IMAX, 3D and other large screen formats. The Group will also 
continue to provide additional sensory experiences to customers 
through 4DX and D-Box seating. The first 4DX cinema opened 
in 2015 with potential for further sites in the coming months. 
We are delighted to have provided this new technology to 
cinemagoers and look forward to the potential expansion  
of the service.
Appeal of Screen Advertising
The attractiveness of cinema screen advertising, as well as the 
demand for advertising generally, drives the Group’s revenue 
from DCM and New Age Media. Screen advertising revenue 
generally varies depending on the type of films screened, the 
minutes and value of advertising sold, the number of attendees 
who view the film, and the placement of the advertisement in 
relation to the start time of the film. Full digital conversion by all 
of DCM’s and New Age Media’s major clients has improved 
their competitive position and has enabled them to gain a 
larger share of advertising budgets, especially local retail which 
is a sector largely unexploited in cinema advertising, by 
offering greater flexibility and shorter lead times.
Expansion and Improvements
Customers choose to attend cinemas largely based on the 
state of their facilities and their locations. We maintain the 
quality of our offering by adding new screens, upgrades to 
seating concepts, expansion of food and drink offerings,  
and by disposing of older screens. The Group devotes a 
considerable amount of time assessing new site opportunities 
and this, along with further acquisitions, is a key part of our 
future growth strategy. Planning laws, economic environment, 
and the ability of developers to finance their projects where we 
may choose to locate our cinemas are some of the factors that 
may impact the Group’s development and growth initiatives. 
These characteristics differ by country.
The Picturehouse circuit provides an additional channel for 
expansion in the arthouse market under the Picturehouse 
brand and the existing pipeline of new multiplex cinemas is  
also increasing. 
Financial Performance
53 week period ended 1 January 2015
52 week 
period 
ended 26 
December 
2013
UK & 
Ireland
CEE &
Israel
 Total
 Group
(1)
Total
Group
Admissions 51.1m 31.8m 82.9m 51.5m
£m £m £m £m
Box office 288.7 110.5 399.2 279.9
Retail 99.2 42.7 141.9 94.1
Distribution Income – 14.6 14.6 –
Other Income 37.4 26.3 63.7 32.1
Total revenue 425.3 194.1 619.4 406.1
EBITDA
(2)
78.8 47.8 126.6 72.3
Operating profit 47.4 28.6 76.0 37.5
Financial income 6.4 0.2 6.6 0.3
Financial expense (14.0) (1.2) (15.2) (6.8)
Net financing costs (7.6) (1.0) (8.6) (6.5)
Share of loss from 
joint venture (0.1) – (0.1) (0.1)
Profit on ordinary 
activities before tax 39.7 27.6 67.3 30.9
Tax on profit on 
ordinary activities (10.8) (2.0) (12.8) (9.9)
Profit for the period 
attributable to  
equity holders of 
the Company 28.9 25.6 54.5 21.0
(1) Cinema City results consolidated for 44 weeks to 1 January 2015.
(2) EBITDA is defined as operating profit before depreciation, impairments, 
reversals of impairments and amortisation, onerous lease and other 
non-recurring or non-cash property charges, transaction and 
reorganisation costs.
The following commentary on the profitability, cash flow and 
balance sheet focuses on the Cineworld Group including 
Cinema City and Picturehouse, except where stated.
EBITDA and Operating Profit
Group EBITDA was up 75.1% to £126.6m (2013: £72.3m) which 
reflects the inclusion of ten months of Cinema City.
EBITDA generated by the UK & Ireland was up 8.8% during the 
year at £78.8m (2013: £72.3m). The impact of the 53rd week 
equated to 5.8% of the EBITDA growth in the UK & Ireland. The 
EBITDA margin of 18.5% represented a 0.7 percentage point 
improvement from 2013. There have been savings across a 
number of direct cost lines, which were part offset by a small 
increase in concession cost of sales due to the increase in 
Starbucks as a proportion of total retail sales, which attracts a 
lower margin. Other cinema costs have remained in line with the 
prior period taking into account the impact of the 53rd week.
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Continued 23
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
CEE & Israel generated EBITDA of £47.8m during the ten 
months it was part of the Group. On an annualised pro-forma 
basis, this represents growth of 13.8% (based on performance 
reported in the acquired management accounts). Pro-forma 
EBITDA margin of 24.4% represented a 2.7 percentage point 
improvement from 2013. Direct cost savings were consistent 
across CEE & Israel, and notably concession costs, as a 
percentage of retail sales, in CEE & Israel improved by 0.4 
percentage points. Other cinema costs have remained broadly 
in line with the previous year.
As the Group now operates in an additional seven territories,  
it has increased its exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. 
Wherever possible, cash income and expenditure is settled in 
local currency to mitigate exchange losses. However, there are 
translation exchange differences arising when presenting the 
year-on-year performance of Cinema City in the reporting 
currency of the Group. During the period for which Cinema 
City was part of the Group, EBITDA of £47.8m was £1.7m lower 
than it would have been had it been translated by applying the 
exchange rates at the start of the year.
Operating profit at £76.0m was 102.7% higher than the prior 
period (2013: £37.5m). Of the £76.0m, £27.6m related to Cinema 
City performance. Operating profit included a number of 
non-recurring and non-trade related items (please refer  
to Note 4 to the financial statements). Transaction and 
reorganisation costs of £6.9m included costs in respect of the 
combination with Cinema City totalling £5.5m (2013: £6.1m) 
and £1.4m related to other restructuring during the period.  
The net credit of £1.9m under onerous leases and other 
non-recurring charges comprised releases to onerous lease 
provisions due to changes in future trading assumptions of 
£4.5m, increases in our provision for dilapidations of £1.3m, 
£1.4m of other property related non-recurring charges and 
£0.1m profit on disposal of cinemas. An asset impairment 
review resulted in a £1.0m increase in asset values which is the 
net of a £1.3m impairment reversal on a previously loss making 
site which is now profitable and £0.3m asset write-downs at 
weaker performing cinemas.
The total depreciation and amortisation charge (included in 
administrative expenses) in the period totalled £46.3m. Of this, 
£23.3m related to depreciation in the UK & Ireland (which was 
consistent with the prior period when taking into account the 
53rd week) and £14.0m related to depreciation in CEE & Israel. 
Amortisation of £5.4m was incurred in respect of intangible 
assets recognised as part of the acquisition of Picturehouse in 
2012 and the combination with Cinema City at the start of 2014 
and amortisation of £3.9m was incurred in respect of acquired 
movie distribution rights.
Finance Costs
As part of the combination with Cinema City, the Group 
entered into a new five-year facility to finance the combination 
and repay the existing facility. An element of the new facility 
was drawn to part settle the acquisition cash consideration of 
£272m and €14.5m was drawn for the settlement of Cinema 
City’s existing debt facilities. The residual portion of the facility 
has been drawn to repay the existing facilities (in place during 
the 2013 comparative period) of the combined Group and to 
fund general working capital requirements going forward. The 
new facility provides funding of £400m of which £275m is a 
term loan and £125m is a revolving credit facility. £160m 
(€192m) of the new facility is available in Euros, reflecting the 
composition of the combined Group. This new financing 
arrangement became effective on 10 January 2014, but the new 
facility was not drawn and the existing facility was not repaid 
until 28 February 2014. As with the previous facility, the new 
facility is subject to floating interest rate charges. The new 
facility is subject to two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA to net 
debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net finance 
charges. A margin, determined by the results of the covenant 
tests at a given date, is added to LIBOR. The margin on the 
term loan can range between 1.65% and 3.15% and the margin 
on the revolving credit facility can range between 1.40% and 
2.90%. At 1 January 2015, term debt totalled £275m and £44m 
of the £125m revolving credit facility was utilised. 
Since entering into the new facility management have 
evaluated the potential risk of a material impact arising from 
interest rate fluctuations and as a result have restructured  
the Group’s hedging arrangements to mitigate such risk.  
At 1 January 2015, the Group had six (2013: two) interest rate 
swaps which hedged 50% (2013: 65%) of the Group’s variable 
rate unsecured term loan. The two existing swaps relating to 
the old facility are now hedging the new facility together with 
four additional new swaps. Under IFRS quality, there is a 
requirement for the existing swaps to be reassessed to establish 
whether they still meet the criteria for hedge accounting. As 
such, the fair value of the two existing swaps at 28 February 
2014 previously recognised in other comprehensive income of 
£1.9m was recycled to the income statement as an exceptional 
finance expense as the fair value related to the hedging 
relationship with the old loan which was settled.
Net financing costs totalled £8.6m during the period  
(2013: £6.5m) which is a net increase of £2.1m. Finance income 
of £6.6m (2013: £0.3) included net foreign exchange gains of 
£6.0m (2013: £nil) on translation of the Euro term loan at the 
balance sheet date. £0.3m (2013: £0.1m) related to interest 
income and £0.3m (2013: £0.2m) related to finance income on 
assets held by defined benefit pension schemes.
Finance expense of £15.2m (2013: £6.8m) included £10.2m in 
respect of interest on bank loans and overdrafts (2013: £5.2m), 
with the increase being the result of the change in financing 
structure of the Group following the combination with Cinema 
City. Other net finance costs of £3.1m included amortisation of 
prepaid finance costs of £1.8m, £0.4m in respect of the unwind 
of discount and interest charges on property-related leases 
and £0.9m of other financial costs. 24
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Taxation 
The overall tax charge during the year was £12.8m giving an 
overall effective tax rate of 19.0% (2013: 30.2%). The lower tax 
rate during the current period reflects the impact of the tax 
rates applicable in the different territories in which the Group 
now operates. The rate also reflects the impact of one-off 
disallowable expenditure (predominately acquisition costs) 
incurred during the period and the net impact in the current 
period of recognising deferred tax assets and liabilities at the 
lower future tax rate. The corporation tax charge in respect of 
the current year was £13.6m, resulting in a current year 
effective tax rate of 20.3% (2013: 35.2%). There was a credit of 
£0.1m relating to prior years, which was offset by £0.8m 
deferred tax charges principally relating to capital allowances 
(the difference between the tax written down value of the capital 
allowance and the net book value of the underlying assets).
Earnings
Profit on ordinary activities after tax in the period was £54.5m, 
compared to the comparative period (2013: £21.0m). The 
significant increase is attributable to the acquisition of Cinema 
City and ten months profit generated from its inclusion in the 
Group. Basic earnings per share amounted to 22.1p (2013: 14.0p). 
Eliminating the one-off, non-trade related items described 
above (totalling £9.4m within operating profit, exceptional 
finance charges of £2.6m and net foreign exchange gains  
of £4.3m), adjusted diluted earnings per share were 24.4p 
(2013: 18.6p). Following the business combination with Cinema 
City, the Group has taken the opportunity to consider how it 
presents its adjusted earnings per share calculation. After a 
review of comparable UK Premium Listed companies, a 
decision was made to no-longer add back the charge for 
share-based payments as it is considered to be an ongoing 
cost of remunerating staff (please refer to Note 5).
Cash Flow and Balance Sheet
Overall, net assets have increased by £312.4m, to £506.3m 
since 26 December 2013. This includes the recognition of the 
fair value of net assets acquired with Cinema City totalling 
£174.2m, the residual goodwill recognised on acquisition of 
£336.4m and the increase in net debt as a result of the 
combination of £169.6m as well as other movements in net 
assets totalling £28.6m.
Acquisition of Cinema City
On 10 January 2014, Cineworld Group plc announced the 
proposed combination with the cinema business of Cinema 
City International N.V. (“CCI”), by means of an acquisition of the 
shares in Cinema City Holding B.V. (“CCH”), a subsidiary of CCI. 
At the date of the announcement, the headline consideration 
for the combination equated to £503m in cash and shares and 
€14.5m for the settlement of CCH bank debt. The combination 
was completed on 28 February 2014, at which point 
adjustments for certain provisions of the purchase agreement 
resulted in a fair value of considered transferred of £510.6m. 
Final cash consideration of £302.6m was part funded by an  
8 for 25 Rights Issue which completed on 14 February 2014, 
raising net funds of £107.2m with the residual cash consideration 
being funded from the Group’s new debt facility. The Group 
issued to CCI shares in Cineworld Group plc which were valued 
at £208.0m when the combination completed on 28 February 
2014. The consideration shares represented 24.9% of the 
post-rights issue share capital of the Group.
As noted above, the fair value of net assets acquired with 
Cinema City totalled £174.2m. In the June 2014 Interim Report, 
the fair values of the acquired net assets were presented on  
a provisional basis. Management have now finalised the 
allocation of the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities 
and as a result goodwill of £336.3m has been recognised 
compared to the £335.6m recognised in June 2014. The 
change of £0.8m related to valuation of property, plant and 
equipment, leases and deferred tax assets (please refer to  
Note 9). There was no change in value of the previously 
unrecognised identifiable intangible assets totalling £46.1m. 
The residual goodwill of £336.4m still represents the skills and 
industry knowledge of Cinema City’s management and 
workforce, synergies expected to be realised post acquisition 
and the future value expected to be generated by the Group 
from Cinema City’s pipeline of new sites and ability to enter 
new territories.
At the time of announcing the combination, synergies 
identified totalled £2.0m. This amount has been successfully 
achieved since acquisition on an annualised basis. Management 
are now confident that annualised synergies of £5.0m can be 
achieved over the next three years.
Cash Flow and Net Debt
The Group continued to be cash generative at the operating 
level. Total net cash generated from operations in the year was 
£86.1m (2013: £55.6m). The increase in cash generated from 
operations reflects the inclusion of the results of Cinema City 
since 28 February 2014.
Net cash spent on capital during the year was £48.1m, which is 
net of reverse premiums received of £1.5m. Included in this 
expenditure was £21.9m in relation to the development of new 
sites, £18.7m in respect of maintenance and £7.5m on other 
revenue-generating initiatives.
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Continued 25
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Net debt increased to £281.9m at the end of the current year 
compared to the prior year (2013: £112.3m). The significant 
movement was due to the change in finance structure of the 
enlarged Group. The net increase in bank loans and overdrafts 
in the period was £186.5m, this was part offset by the cash 
acquired with Cinema City of £24.1m. Net debt at the period 
end represented 2.1 times the rolling 12 month EBITDA figure 
for the combined Group (on a pro-forma basis).
Dividends
The Directors are recommending to shareholders for approval 
a final dividend in respect of the period ended 1 January 2015 
of 9.7p per share, which taken together with the interim 
dividend of 3.8p per share paid in October 2014 equates to a 
total dividend in respect of 2014 of 13.5p per share (2013: 10.1p 
per share). The total 2013 dividend per share includes a 
rights-adjusted interim dividend of 3.7p per share. This 2013 
interim dividend per share has been adjusted to take account 
of the rights issue of 8 for 25 shares on 14 February 2014, in 
order to present a comparator for the 2014 dividend. The 2013 
interim dividend as previously reported was 4.1p per share. On 
this basis, the 2014 dividend of 13.5p per share represents an 
increase of 33.7%. The record date for the dividend is 12 June 
2015 and the payment date is 9 July 2015. Cineworld has 
increased its dividend every year since the Company was listed 
in 2007.
Board Changes
On completion of the combination with Cinema City, Moshe 
(Mooky) Greidinger (former Chief Executive Office of CCI) and 
Israel Greidinger (former Chief Financial Officer) of CCI joined 
the Board of Cineworld Group plc as Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Operating Officer respectively. At the same time 
Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger stepped down from 
their executive positions on the Board of CCI (now Global City 
Holdings N.V. (“GCH”). Given the investment in Cineworld 
Group plc held by GCH a relationship agreement was put in 
place to govern the key operational arrangements between the 
related parties. This agreement gives GCH the right to appoint 
a Non-Executive Director to the Board.
On 20 November 2013, the Group announced the resignation 
of Stephen Wiener, Cineworld’s founder and CEO, and he left 
the employment of the Group on 31 March 2014, stepping down 
from his role as CEO and as a Director of the Company on 
completion of the combination with Cinema City. At this time, 
Scott Rosenblum and Arni Samuelsson joined the Board as 
Non-Executive Directors. Scott Rosenblum was appointed  
by GCH in accordance with the relationship agreement. On  
6 August 2014 it was announced that Israel Greidinger’s role 
would change from Chief Operating Officer to Deputy Chief 
Executive Officer.
Following nine years of committed service, David Maloney  
and Peter Williams will lose their independent status as 
Non-Executive Directors and will step down from the Board at 
the next AGM. Julie Southern has been invited to join the Board 
as a Non-Executive Director, and will stand for election at the 
AGM. It is intended that Julie Southern will succeed David 
Maloney as the Chair of the Audit Committee and that Martina 
King will succeed Peter Williams as Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee. A further appointment to the Board is anticipated 
and the revised composition of the respective Board 
Committees will be announced in due course. 
By order of the Board
Mooky Greidinger
Chief Executive Officer
12 March 2015 26
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Risks and Uncertainties
The consolidation of Cineworld and Cinema City Holdings 
during the year has significantly changed the scale and 
structure of the business and, as a result, the Board has 
reviewed the Group’s risk management and internal control 
framework in order to ensure that it remains fit for purpose.
The business environment in which the Group operates 
presents a number of risks and uncertainties which continue to 
be the focus of the Board’s ongoing attention. The consolidation 
of Cineworld and Cinema City Holdings during the year has 
significantly changed the scale and structure of the business 
and, as a result, the Board has reviewed the Group’s risk 
management and internal control framework in order to ensure 
that it remains fit for purpose. A number of enhancements to 
the Group’s risk management framework were deemed 
appropriate from this review and are in the process of being 
implemented across the enlarged Group.
In addition, the Board is aware of the increased focus on risk 
management introduced by the issue of the revised UK 
Corporate Governance Code (“Code“) during the year. 
Although compliance against the revised Code will not impact 
the Group until the 2015 full year disclosure, the Code’s 
requirements have been taken into account as we continue to 
enhance our current focus in this area. 
The Board has reviewed the principal risks and uncertainties 
faced by the Group in pursuit of its business objectives and 
these are summarised as follows. Cineworld’s approach to risk 
management and internal control is designed to manage rather 
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives 
and therefore, where possible, the Group has implemented 
mitigation strategies to reduce our overall risk exposure in line 
with the Board’s risk appetite. The overall change in exposure 
for each risk during 2014 is indicated by an arrow highlighting 
the direction of travel. 
Integration of the Enlarged Cineworld Group Change 
Principal Risk and Impact
The combination of Cineworld with the cinema assets of Cinema City 
International N.V. during the year has meant an increase in the complexity 
of the operations of the newly formed Group and the need to integrate 
systems, people and processes.
Effective management of the integration process is key to ensure the 
newly formed Group can maximise the benefits and synergies of the 
enlarged business and reduce the risk exposure to operational 
inefficiencies and/or potential internal control failings.
Example Mitigation
The strategy adopted by the Group has been to focus on integrating 
Group wide support functions, systems and processes. This has included 
the creation of newly formed Group wide teams for IT, HR, Finance and 
Construction and, where required, the recruitment of senior staff.
The Deputy Chief Executive has taken overall responsibility for the 
process and he reports at each Board meeting on progress.
Film Distributor Relationships, the Release Window and Alternative Media Change  
Principal Risk and Impact
Cinema-going is driven primarily by output from Hollywood, which is 
dominated by six film studios.
Maintaining the Group’s relationships with the large Hollywood film 
studios, but also with distributors across the globe is critical to ensure 
timely access to first-run films, favourable film hire terms and agreements 
for ongoing film distribution.
Any deterioration in these relationships could have a significant direct 
impact on our access to film content as well as the potential for the film 
distributors to consider alternative film delivery methods and/or a 
reduction or elimination of the release window.
Furthermore, the continuing development of existing and new 
technology (such as 3D television and internet streaming) is also 
introducing increasing competitive forces as they offer alternative 
ways to release films.
Example Mitigation
Cineworld continues to work hard to ensure it has good working 
relationships with a wide range of film studios, both major and 
independent. Dedicating time and resources to ensure we build and 
maintain relationships that operate as successful partnerships is a key 
part of our strategy in this area. 
A further part of the Group strategy has been to establish exclusive 
distribution relationships with certain film studios in some Central and 
Eastern European (“CEE”) countries and Israel.
Cineworld continually seeks to enhance its offer to customers so 
maintaining visitor numbers and making our cinemas an attractive  
way for distributors to release films. Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
27
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Availability and Performance of Film Content Change  
Principal Risk and Impact
Underpinning the overall success of the Group is the quality of the 
distributors’ film slates, the timeliness of their release and the appeal  
of such films to our customers.
A year in which the film distributors do not produce the level of expected 
films or films underperform has a direct impact on cinema attendance 
and therefore, the principal box office revenue for the Group  
could decline.
Economic factors in terms of the availability of capital for financing  
film productions can also have an impact on the supply of films and/or 
their production. 
Example Mitigation
We work closely with the film distributors to understand as early as 
possible the upcoming film slate and therefore, forecast likely film 
performance. The film slates for 2015 and 2016 look good and stronger 
than those of recent years.
Although access to the latest Hollywood film slate is reliant on our 
partnership with the large film distributors, the Cineworld Group 
strategy is to have access to a wider range of films over and above the 
traditional Hollywood blockbusters. This allows us to reduce our overall 
exposure to reduced attendance by meeting specific local area demand 
for type and content of films shown.
The operating flexibility of having digital projection technology available 
in all our cinemas has also been a key strategy that has enhanced the 
capacity utilisation of the Group. Digital film content can be easily 
moved to and from auditoriums in our cinemas to maximise admissions.
Customer Experience and Competition Change  
Principal Risk and Impact
Although cinema admissions are predominantly driven by the quality 
and availability of movie product, ensuring that the Group continually 
aims to enhance the viewer experience through the quality of the 
products and services offered is also key to our focus of being the 
cinema of choice.
Any decrease in the quality of the services we offer, from the ease of 
booking, the technology we use, to a friendly farewell on departure, 
could result in loss of our customers to competitors and/or other 
leisure/entertainment attractions.
Example Mitigation
Our strategy is focused on continually improving the quality of services 
we offer to customers such as enhancing our approach to online booking, 
removing clutter from our foyers, investing in technical innovation and 
premium offerings such as IMAX, 3D and other large screen formats 
across the Group, upgrading our seating options and improving our 
retail offers. 
The customer interaction with the Group outside of the cinema 
environment is also important and that is why we have continued  
to enhance our subscription and membership programmes to offer 
added value though offers and information.
Revenue from Retail Sales Change  
Principal Risk and Impact
Retail sales generally fluctuate in line with admissions, therefore, if 
admissions were to fall, revenue from retail sales could decrease. Retail 
spend may also decrease due to changes in customer preferences, 
decreased disposable income or other economic and cultural factors.
In addition, the price of items such as energy and foodstuffs has a 
direct impact on costs which we may not be able to pass on to customers.
The ability of the Group to understand and react quickly to the 
changing customer need is a key part to maintaining and increasing 
this revenue effectively.
Example Mitigation
A key strategy for the Group is to maintain a strong relationship with our 
principal retail suppliers as this allows us to work with them to enhance 
our ability to continually run targeted promotions as well as bringing in 
differing ranges of products to meet changing customer demand. 28
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Revenue from Screen Advertising Change  
Principal Risk and Impact
The level of revenues earned is directly affected by the overall demand 
for advertising, the competitive pressures for that advertising spend 
and then ultimately by cinema admissions.
Example Mitigation
Our offering to advertisers is being continually enhanced by  
exploiting the benefits of, and particularly the flexibility provided  
by, digital projection.
Expansion and Growth of Our Cinema Estate Change 
Principal Risk and Impact
Our estate growth is dependent on our ability to effectively expand 
operations through the development of new sites or acquiring  
existing cinemas. 
Planning laws, economic environment, availability of capital for 
developers and location choice are some of the factors that may 
impact the Group’s development and growth initiatives. This is 
particularly heightened if the Group continues to expand in emerging 
markets as the risk of doing business in these areas is higher. 
Example Mitigation
As we now operate in more countries, there are more opportunities  
to expand.
The Group devotes a considerable amount of time assessing new site 
opportunities and this, along with further acquisitions, is a key part of 
our future growth strategy. 
We also focus a significant amount of time and effort on maintaining 
good relationships with potential key partners so we are aware of the 
availability of space in new developments and to ensure factors such  
as local planning laws and demographic changes are continually 
understood and monitored.
Retention and Attraction of Senior Management and Key Employees Change  
Principal Risk and Impact
The Group’s performance and its ability to mitigate significant risks 
within its control depend on its employees and management teams. 
Therefore, reliance is placed on the Group’s ability to recruit, develop 
and incentivise senior management and other key employees.
If the Group loses the services of key people this is likely to have a 
direct impact on the ability to deliver business objectives.
Example Mitigation
The Group uses a variety of techniques to attract, retain and motivate 
its staff, with particular attention paid to those in key roles to help 
ensure the long-term success of the Group. These techniques include 
the regular review of remuneration packages, including share incentive 
schemes, regular communication with staff and an annual performance 
review process.
Technology and Data Control Change  
Principal Risk and Impact
The Group continues to grow in its reliance on IT systems and data 
control from booking tickets on the website to managing financial 
information and everything in between. Therefore, any critical system 
interruption for a sustained period could have a significant impact on 
the Group’s performance.
In addition, any breach (cyber or otherwise) of data protection rules or 
in security measures surrounding the storage of confidential or 
proprietary information held by the Group could result in access, loss 
or disclosure of this information leading to legal claims, regulatory 
penalties, disruption of operations of the Group and ultimately 
reputational damage.
Example Mitigation
The Group IT function monitors, manages and optimises our systems, 
including ensuring their resilience through back-up systems and 
implementing security measures.
Additional external experts are employed where necessary to oversee, 
and help manage, major projects involving the upgrading or 
replacement of key systems.
The Group continually reviews its approach to information security, 
specifically controlling the sensitive data it holds through restricted 
access. A specific focus is on being fully compliant with Payment Card 
Industry – Data Security Standards. 
Risks and Uncertainties
Continued 29
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Regulatory Breach Change  
Principal Risk and Impact
The Group’s business and operations are affected by regulations 
covering such matters as planning, the environment, health and  
safety, licensing, food and drink retailing, data protection and the 
minimum wage. 
Failure to ensure ongoing compliance across the wide breadth of 
regulation/legislation may result in fines and/or suspension of the 
activity or entire business operation. 
Example Mitigation
Management operate an ongoing cinema compliance programme 
which is then supplemented by a programme of independent  
assurance reviews.
Our Group support functions use a combination of ongoing staff 
professional development and updates from professional advisers to 
ensure the Group is aware of the latest regulations in key areas.
Film Piracy Change  
Principal Risk and Impact
Film piracy (aided by technological advances) has long-term 
implications for the industry as a whole. If the Group is seen not to be 
proactively supporting the film distributors in combating this, there 
could be a direct impact on our relationship with them and therefore 
affect our access to film content. 
Additionally if cinemas are the source of pirated copies of films, 
distributors will consider alternative means of release.
Example Mitigation
We proactively work with groups targeting film piracy such as the 
Cinema Exhibitors’ Association and The Federation Against Copyright 
Theft in the UK. These relationships ensure the Group can stay up to 
date with the latest piracy techniques used by individuals entering our 
cinema’s and therefore, allow us to continually review our approaches 
to monitoring and detection.
Terrorism and Civil Unrest Change  
Principal Risk and Impact
Cinema businesses could be affected by civil unrest or terrorist acts/
threats which could cause the public to avoid cinemas. This could be 
due to incidents in the locations in which the Group operates, such as 
Israel or in other areas, that increase general unease in the locations in 
which it operates. 
The Group may additionally be subject to an increased risk of boycott, 
targeted civil unrest or terrorist action/threat as a result of operating in 
and being linked to certain countries or types of film. This could 
adversely impact the results of operations and the financial condition 
of the Group.
Example Mitigation
We receive communications from relevant government authorities and 
law enforcement agencies which keep us informed and allow us, when 
needed, to monitor any potential impact external events could have on 
the security of our cinema estate.
Business continuity and disaster recovery plans are in place to ensure that 
we can react appropriately should an incident occur at a Group site and 
appropriate insurance is in place to mitigate the financial consequences.
Extreme Weather Conditions Change  
Principal Risk and Impact
Unusual weather patterns such as unseasonably warm Summers or 
extreme snowfalls in Winter can impact attendances at cinemas and, 
particularly where this coincides with a major film release, could have a 
significant effect on revenues.
Example Mitigation
Most of the Group’s cinemas are air conditioned and therefore 
temperatures within the cinemas can be controlled as necessary. 30
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Corporate Responsibility
In this context, the Group seeks to 
integrate corporate social responsibility 
(“CSR”) considerations, relating 
particularly to social, ethical, health and 
safety, and environmental issues, in its 
day-to-day business operations. Further 
information in respect of the Group’s 
approach is set out below with a few 
illustrative examples.
Ethics
Cineworld seeks to act with honesty and 
integrity in its dealings with customers, 
employees, shareholders, regulators and 
suppliers. How we behave in such dealings 
reflect on our reputation which is a key 
asset underpinning the successful delivery 
of our strategy. Our Ethics policy seeks 
to guide the behaviour of our people by 
outlining 12 broad principles establishing 
common values on which we do business 
to help ensure we act in appropriate ways 
to maintain and enhance our reputation. 
The principles also provide a framework 
for how we manage corporate 
responsibility issues.
Our Ethical Principles
1. We will act lawfully.
2. We will act with integrity.
3. We will respect our customers.
4. We will treat individuals properly.
5. We will compete fairly.
6. We will treat our suppliers properly.
7. We will manage relations with 
shareholders effectively.
8. We will maintain high standards of 
financial record keeping and reporting.
9. We will comply with the rules on 
inside information and share dealing.
10. We will maintain high standards  
of health and safety.
11. We will respect the environment.
12. We will seek to contribute to  
the community.
Community 
Cineworld observes all national regulators’ 
film classification guidelines unless the 
local regulators’ require otherwise. In 
counties where there are no such 
classification guidelines, we provide 
information to customers about films so 
they can make informed choices about 
the appropriateness of people under 18 
attending any performance. We also 
ensure that all trailers are complementary 
in terms of suitability to the main feature.
Subject to regulators’ guidelines, 
Cineworld seeks to show a wide a range 
of film product and other screen content. 
Film programmes are tailored to each 
country and screenings are often 
frequently driven by local communities 
and their preferences. Operating large 
sites with high numbers of screens 
enables us to offer such a wide choice 
and bring as many people as possible to 
our cinemas.
Cineworld has continued its commitment 
to Event Cinema which brings a wider 
range of content to customers throughout  
our estate enabling our audiences to see 
live shows taking place around the world 
ranging from the Metropolitan Opera in 
the US to Monty Python Live from the 
UK. Operating in this way supports such 
productions making them more 
commercially viable, allows more people 
to see them and, in turn, brings more 
people to the cinema and frequently a 
very different type of customer.
Cineworld works with various charities, 
local government and community groups 
across all the territories in which it 
operates. Activities include working with 
distributors on charity screenings, 
providing free shows for organisations 
working with disadvantaged children 
and providing free venues for local 
authorities to teach children about road 
safety. Such activities not only contribute 
to the community, but also help to 
establish and make the Cineworld brands 
better respected and known in their  
local communities.
Cineworld also works as a venue partner 
for numerous film festivals. While many 
are well known and high profile, in 
certain territories Cineworld sponsors 
festivals showcasing local film producers 
work and run short film competitions for 
students encouraging the development 
of future talent and providing access to 
potential audiences. This involvement 
once again helps to promote Cineworld’s 
brands through the wider film industry.
Access for All 
Cineworld is keen to promote a “Movies 
for All” policy for our customers. 
Increasing accessibility results in local 
cinemas playing a fuller role in the 
communities in which they operate. 
Across all our territories, we encourage 
children to come to our cinemas by 
offering shows specifically aimed at them 
as they are the future film going audience. 
We ensure that all movies for children’s 
shows are dubbed into the native 
language so they can enjoy the full cinema 
experience. Senior citizens and students 
benefit from discounts at certain times 
of the day. In some countries, Cineworld 
also allows customers with disabilities to 
be accompanied by a carer with them 
free of charge.
All new cinemas are designed to exceed 
current statutory requirements to provide 
buildings which are technically advanced, 
yet meet high operational standards in 
terms of public service, safety and 
accessibility. They are designed to remove 
physical features which can hinder the 
use of the facility by the less physically 
able, so that auditoriums are as accessible 
as possible given the restrictions of  
any particular location. The opportunity 
is also taken to enhance access within 
cinemas when they undergo major 
refurbishment as part of an ongoing 
programme of improvements  
and renovations.
As part of the process of improving 
further Cineworld’s offer to disabled 
customers, Cineworld staff receive 
training in disability awareness and 
welcoming disabled customers. Audio 
descriptive and autism-friendly screenings 
are offered at many of our cinemas. 
Subtitled screenings are also provided  
in English speaking countries aimed at 
the hard of hearing.
Film Piracy 
With films being released in cinemas in 
different territories at different times, 
there remains a significant risk of piracy 
within the cinema industry. Cineworld 
continues to work closely with 
organisations, where they exist, to help 
reduce and prevent film piracy. In line 
with Cineworld’s operational strategy, 
cinema management teams have a 
responsibility to ensure that they do 
everything reasonably practicable to 
protect the intellectual property rights  
of films and Event Cinema exhibited 
within their cinemas.
The Board acknowledges its duty to ensure the Group 
conducts its activities responsibly and with proper regard  
for all its stakeholders including employees, shareholders, 
business partners, suppliers and local communities.  Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
31
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
With the ever-changing threat of evolving 
technologies and smaller undetectable 
recording devices, Cineworld seeks to 
mitigate this risk by constantly reviewing 
and developing its training programmes, 
policies and procedures to ensure its 
staff are able to effectively prevent film 
piracy. Night-vision technology is utilised 
and there is an increased vigilance 
around high-profile titles which are 
particularly vulnerable on release.
Environment 
Cineworld seeks to comply with all 
relevant environmental legislation and to 
operate in an environmentally sensitive 
manner. The Directors acknowledge the 
impact that the business has on the 
environment and seek to mitigate it. 
Often changes which help to mitigate 
our environmental impact also reduce 
our operating costs. 
Being a multi-site business, the Group is 
conscious of its total energy consumption 
and amount of waste materials generated 
and is actively working on reducing  
both energy usage and quantity of  
waste materials produced that cannot  
be recycled.
Since the start of 2014, wireless energy 
management systems have been 
operated in a number of cinemas in five 
of the territories in which we trade to 
reduce energy usage, with considerable 
reductions being achieved. Where such 
a system is not operational, building 
management systems are utilised to 
reduce total energy by ensuring staff are 
fully trained in their use. The Group’s 
mandatory greenhouse gas report can 
be found in the Directors’ Report on 
pages 67 and 68.
Our cinema websites enable e-tickets to 
be purchased and used avoiding the need 
to print tickets and, in many instances, 
poster cases are now digital reducing 
the need to deliver, install, and ultimately 
throw away large paper posters. All 
these efforts help to reduce our use of 
resources and carbon footprint.
The use of digital projection technology 
has further reduced Cineworld’s 
environmental impact. The move away 
from 35mm celluloid prints has reduced 
the use of raw materials for the production 
of bulky prints using chemical processes, 
which ultimately are shredded as they 
are unable to be recycled at the end of 
their relatively short life. In addition, the 
distribution of digital content through 
small hard drives, down IDSL lines or by 
satellite greatly reduces the delivery 
costs and associated carbon footprint. 
Hard drives are reused, while delivery by 
satellite and IDSL line removes the 
carbon impact almost completely and 
this year a growing number of films shown 
in Cineworld’s cinemas were distributed 
in this way.
3D technology has its own environmental 
challenges with the use of special 
disposable 3D glasses. Customers are 
encouraged to reuse their 3D glasses by 
pricing structures. This approach has 
had significantly results and, depending 
upon the territory, the level of reuse of 
glasses obtained from previous visits 
now ranges from 25%–50%.
Retail 
We offer a range of products our 
customers seek in a way that is 
responsible, takes account of alternative 
healthier options and reduces the impact 
on the environment. Much of the focus 
has recently been on providing 
information to enable customers to 
make more informed choices.
In line with our philosophy of offering 
more healthy options, we now provide a 
wider range of sugar free and carbonated 
drinks and other healthier choices. While 
some such offers have been welcomed 
by our customers, certain more radical 
healthy options have been trialled 
unsuccessfully as many customers still 
associate going to the cinema as a 
special occasion on which they enjoy 
themselves choosing to eat and drink 
what they like.
Using preferred wholesalers or logistic 
centres has enabled us to reduce the 
number of deliveries to our sites. 
Combining deliveries is not only more 
efficient for our business, but also 
reduces the number of journeys made 
by vehicles with all the associated 
environmental benefits.
Each time there is a requirement for a 
new or replacement contract, all proposed 
arrangements are carefully reviewed to 
ensure that they are not only commercially 
beneficial, but also appropriate account 
is taken of environmental considerations. 
Many of our suppliers and partners have 
strong environmental records.
Diversity and Human Rights
Cineworld is an equal opportunity 
employer and seeks to recruit, retain and 
promote staff on the basis of their 
qualifications, skills, aptitude and attitude. 
A wide range of applicants are 
encouraged to apply for all roles. In 
employment-related decisions, the 
business complies with all relevant 
legislation including that specifically 
targeted at preventing discrimination and 
such principles are embedded through 
the business by requisite policies.
Cineworld also seeks to treat all its staff 
in accordance with its Ethics policy so 
that each person is accorded dignity  
and respect and the guiding principle is 
followed that we treat other people as 
we ourselves would like to be treated.
Gender Breakdown of  
Cineworld People
Board of 
Directors
 Senior 
 managers
(1)
Other team 
members
Male 9 8 4,639
Female 1 6 4,016
(1) Senior managers are those people who report 
directly to an Executive Director.
Since the year end, it has been announced 
that two male Directors will be stepping 
down at the AGM having served nine 
years and, subject to shareholder approval 
at the AGM, a female Director will join 
the Board which will result in it becoming 
over 20% female.
Safety 
The ongoing management of the  
day-to-day health, safety and welfare of 
Cineworld’s customers, employees and 
contractors is of major importance. With 
over 82 million customer visits a year 
and over 8,500 employees, Cineworld 
seeks to maintain high standards in the 
effective management of our health and 
safety obligations, and our duty of care 
to our customers and staff.
Each year every cinema in the Group is 
subject to health and safety assessments 
and a fire risk audit. Results are compared 
year-on-year and any significant issues 
are followed up with the assistance of 
specialist external consultants where 
needed. Overall, the results have shown 
that standards remain high. All incidents 
are logged, investigated and action 
taken, where appropriate, to ensure that 
the chances of a reoccurrence are 
reduced as far as reasonably possible.
The Strategic Report is set out on pages 
1 to 31.
By order of the Board
Mooky Greidinger     Philip Bowcock
12 March 2015 32
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Directors
As at 1 January 2015
Anthony Bloom Chairman Age 75
Anthony Bloom joined the Board in October 2004 as Chairman and has served as Chairman of Cine-UK 
Limited since the business was founded in 1995. He was previously Chairman and Chief Executive of The 
Premier Group Limited (South Africa) and a Director of Barclays Bank (South Africa), South African 
Breweries and other listed companies both in South Africa and the United Kingdom. Mr Bloom holds 
Bachelor of Commerce and Bachelor of Law degrees (cum laude) from the University of Witwatersrand 
in South Africa and a Masters of Law degree from Harvard Law School. He was a Sloan Fellow at the 
Stanford Graduate School of Business. In 2002, Mr Bloom was awarded the degree of Doctor of Law 
(H.C.) by the University of Witwatersrand in recognition of his contribution towards the establishment 
of a non-racial society in South Africa.
Israel Greidinger Deputy Chief Executive Officer Age 53
Israel Greidinger joined the Board in February 2014 as Chief Operating Officer. In August 2014, his role 
changed to Deputy Chief Executive Officer. From 1994 until 2014, he worked for Cinema City International 
N.V. (“CCI”) and was appointed Chief Financial Officer of CCI in 1995. Mr Greidinger has also served as a 
Director of Israel Theatres Limited since 1994. From 1985 to 1992, he was Managing Director of C.A.T.S. 
Limited (Computerised Automatic Ticket Sales), and from 1992 to 1994 he was President and Chief 
Executive Officer of Pacer C.A.T.S. Inc. Mr Greidinger is a Non-Executive Director of Global City Holdings 
N.V. (formerly CCI). He is the brother of Moshe Greidinger and the son of the late Coleman Greidinger.
Philip Bowcock Chief Financial Officer Age 46
Philip Bowcock joined the Board in December 2011 as the Chief Financial Officer. His experience spans 
senior financial roles in the property, retail and leisure industries, having acted as Financial Controller at 
Barratt Developments plc, Finance Director for Tesco’s UK property portfolio, Vice President of Finance 
at Hilton Group and as Finance Director at Luminar Group Holdings plc. Mr Bowcock has a degree in 
Economic History and is a Chartered Management Accountant.
Moshe (Mooky) Greidinger Chief Executive Officer Age 62
Mooky Greidinger joined the Board in February 2014 as Chief Executive Officer. Prior to that he was 
Chief Executive Officer of Cinema City International N.V. (“CCI”). He joined the Cinema City Group in 
1976. Since 1984, has held executive positions with the Cinema City Group. Mr Greidinger has also served 
as a Director and Deputy Managing Director of Israel Theatres Limited since 1983 and Co-Chairman of 
the Cinema Owners Association in Israel since August 1996. Mr Greidinger is a Non-Executive Director 
of Global City Holdings N.V. (formerly CCI). He is the brother of Israel Greidinger and the son of the late 
Coleman Greidinger. Mr Greidinger achieved the “Exhibitor of the Year Award” at ShoWest in Las Vegas 
in 2004 and “International Exhibitor of the Year Award” at CineEurope, in Amsterdam in 2011, with 
special recognition for having developed new markets in Central and Eastern Europe. Mr Greidinger has 
also served for the last 12 years as head of the Board of Trustees of the Hebrew Reali School of Haifa.
Martina King Non-Executive Director (Independent) Age 54
Martina King joined the Board in July 2010 as an independent Non-Executive Director. She is a member 
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees. Ms King is currently CEO of Featurespace and a Non-
Executive Director of Debenhams Plc. Previous executive roles include Managing Director of Capital 
Radio plc, MD of Yahoo! UK and Europe and MD of Aurasma. 33
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
David Maloney Non-Executive Director (Independent) Age 59
David Maloney joined the Board in May 2006 as an independent Non-Executive Director. He is the 
Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration 
Committee. Mr Maloney is currently the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Enterprise Inns 
plc and Stock Spirit Group plc. He is also the Chairman of Reed & Mackay Limited, Brandon Hire Limited 
and the Board of Trustees of Make A Wish Foundation (UK). Previously, he was the Chairman of 
Hoseasons Holdings Ltd, Deputy Chair of Micro Focus International plc, a Director of Virgin Mobile 
Holdings (UK) plc, Ludorum plc and Carillion plc and held a number of senior positions, including Chief 
Financial Officer for Le Meridien Hotels & Resorts, Thomson Travel Group plc and Avis Europe plc.  
Mr Maloney holds a degree in Economics from Heriot Watt University, Edinburgh and is a fellow of  
the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Scott S. Rosenblum Non-Executive Director (Non-independent) Age 65
Scott S. Rosenblum joined the Board in February 2014 as a non-independent Non-Executive Director. He 
is a member of the Nomination Committee. Prior to appointment, he was a member of the Supervisory 
Board of Cinema City International N.V. (“CCI”) since 2004. He became Chairman of the Supervisory 
Board of CCI on 14 November 2011. He was also Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the 
Appointment Committee of CCI from November 2006 and was a member of the Audit Committee.  
He is licensed as a lawyer and is admitted to the New York Bar Association. For the past 20 years, he 
has been a partner in the law firm of Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP, New York, and was Managing 
Partner between 1994 and 2000. Mr Rosenblum is on the Executive Committee of Kramer Levin Naftalis 
& Frankel LLP and is Co-Chairman of its Corporate Department. He is currently a Director of Investec USA 
Holdings Corp and Investec Securities (US) LLC. Mr Rosenblum is a graduate of Dartmouth College and 
the University of Pennsylvania Law School.
Arni Samuelsson Non-Executive Director (Independent) Age 72
Arni Samuelsson joined the Board in February 2014 as an independent Non-Executive Director. He is a 
member of the Nomination Committee. He has over 40 years of cinema exhibition and film distribution 
experience, principally through SAMfélagið (Samfilm) – a cinema exhibitor and film distributor in 
Iceland, of which he has been joint owner and Chief Executive Officer since it was formed in 1975.  
He has been Chief Executive Officer of Samfilm EHF (SAMfélagið’s distribution arm) since 1975, and 
Chief Executive Officer at SAMcinema (SAMfélagið’s cinema arm) since the same year. Prior to this,  
Mr Samuelsson was a Director and owner of Vikurbaer, a supermarket business in Keflavik, from 1972 
until its sale in 1982.
Eric (Rick) Senat Non-Executive Director (Independent) Age 65
Rick Senat joined the Board in July 2010 as an independent Non-Executive Director. He is a Chairman  
of the Nomination Committee. He has over 40 years’ experience in the film industry. Mr Senat joined 
Warner Bros in 1976, becoming its Senior Vice President for Business Affairs in Europe. Among the 
projects with which he was closely associated are the “Harry Potter” films, “Greystoke”, “Batman”, 
“Superman” and many more. He retired from Warner Bros after 25 years’ service. Mr Senat was a 
Director of the legendary and recently revived film company Hammer Film Productions, and has served 
as Vice Chair of the British Film Institute. Currently, he is a partner in the Blair Partnership – a literary 
agency, a Non-Executive Director of Pottermore Limited and Chairman of the London Film Museum.  
He was a Non-Executive Director of Bank Leumi (UK) plc. Mr Senat is a graduate of University College 
London and a solicitor.
Peter Williams Non-Executive Director (Independent) Age 61
Peter Williams joined the Board in May 2006 as an independent Non-Executive Director. He is Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee. He is the Chairman of  
bohoo.com plc, Senior Independent Director of Sportech plc, and a Non-Executive Director of 
Rightmove Plc; Chairman of Jaeger and Mister Spex GmbH and a trustee of the Design Council.  
In the past, he has also served on the Boards of ASOS plc, the EMI Group, Silverstone, OfficeTeam,  
Blacks Leisure Group plc, JJB Sports plc, GCap Media plc, and Capital Radio Group plc. In his executive 
career, he was Chief Executive at Alpha Group plc and prior to that Chief Executive of Selfridges plc 
where he also acted as Chief Financial Officer for over ten years. Mr Williams has a degree in 
Mathematics from Bristol University and is a Chartered Accountant. 34
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chairman’s Introduction
Dear Shareholder
As Chairman of the Company, I am pleased to present our 
Corporate Governance Statement for 2014. It has been a 
particularly busy year for our three Board Committees as the 
Group increased considerably in size with the result that not 
only did the normal business of the Company require attention, 
but also a number of complex matters related to the change in 
the nature of the Group.
In February 2014, the Company completed its combination 
with the cinema business of Cinema City International N.V. 
(“CCI”), by means of an acquisition of the shares in Cinema City 
Holding N.V. (“CCH”), a subsidiary of CCI (the “Combination”). 
The new combined business is almost double the size of the 
previous Cineworld operations and of significant international 
complexity. The Combination created the second largest 
cinema business in Europe with the number one or number two 
position (by number of screens) in every region in which the 
enlarged Group operates. Cineworld’s estate prior to the 
Combination consisted of 101 sites with 869 screens in the UK 
and one site in Ireland with 17 screens. Immediately following 
completion of the transaction, the enlarged Group had 201 
sites and 1,852 screens and 89 million admissions in nine 
countries.
As part of the transaction, a new CEO and COO (whose title 
was subsequently changed to Deputy CEO) were appointed 
and the Remuneration Committee had the task of ensuring 
appropriate remuneration packages were put in place for the 
new and continuing Executive Directors as well as the leaving 
arrangements for the outgoing CEO. It was, of course, 
important that the ongoing arrangements would ensure the 
successful integration of the new business and help realise the 
strategic rationale for the Combination. In turn this would help 
ensure the long-term success of the enlarged business. I am 
confident that the remuneration arrangements, which were 
benchmarked by external remuneration consultants, will help  
us achieve the long-term returns for shareholders for which  
we are striving. Further details of the arrangements are to be 
found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The Nomination Committee started the year by addressing 
issues raised by the Combination including the appointment of 
two additional Non-Executive Directors. The appointments of 
Scott Rosenblum, a US lawyer, and Arni Samuelsson, an owner/
operator of cinemas in Iceland on completion of the Combination 
added considerably to our Board. More recently the Nomination 
Committee has been seeking to identify two new Non-Executive 
Directors to refresh the Board as two of our original  
Non-Executive Directors, David Maloney and Peter Williams, 
are approaching nine years of service and accordingly will no 
longer be classified as “independent”. Their departure from the 
Audit Committee means, as part of our succession planning, 
that we needed to find a new Non-Executive with the 
appropriate financial experience to join the Audit Committee. 
Further details are set out in this Statement in the Nomination 
Committee Report.
Finally the Audit Committee has been overseeing the issues 
raised by the Combination at the half and full year, in addition 
to their usual work. Putting two businesses together with 
different accounting and control systems is not a simple  
task and the Audit Committee has worked hard with the 
External Auditor, KPMG LLP, and the Internal Auditor, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”) who were appointed 
during the year, to ensure that consistent standards are 
introduced and maintained across the enlarged Group. The 
main issues faced by the Audit Committee and the actions 
taken to address them and further details of other matters  
are set out in this Statement in the Audit Committee Report.
Let me finish by confirming that the Board remains committed 
to ensuring that a high standard of corporate governance is 
continuously maintained throughout the Group and we meet 
the standards required of a FTSE 250 company which 
Cineworld became in May 2014. Looking to the future, we have 
noted the regulatory changes have been made by the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2014 published towards the end 
of the year and have already started work to ensure that the 
Group remains as fully compliant with the amended code next 
year as we are with the current one. 
Anthony Bloom
Chairman
Corporate Governance Statement 35
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Compliance with the UK Corporate  
Governance Code
The principal governance rules applying to UK companies 
listed on the London Stock Exchange for the period covered  
by this statement are contained in the 2012 UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the “Governance Code”) published by the 
UK Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 and a copy 
is available on its website www.frc.org.uk.
For the period ended 1 January 2015, the Board considers that 
the Company was compliant with the provisions of the 
Governance Code. The table below explains how the Company 
has complied with the main principles of the Governance Code. 
The information required to be disclosed by the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules (“DTR”) 7.1 and 7.2 is set out in this 
statement except that information required by DTR 7.2.6 which 
is set out in the Directors’ Report on pages 63 to 68 and is 
incorporated in this statement by reference.
A. Leadership
A.1 The Role of the Board
The Board met formally six times during the year. There is a 
clear schedule of matters reserved for the Board, together with 
delegated authorities throughout the Group.
A.2 Division of Responsibilities
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly 
defined. Tony Bloom, the Chairman, is responsible for the 
leadership and effectiveness of the Board and for setting the 
strategy. Mooky Greidinger, the Chief Executive Officer is 
responsible for leading the day-to-day management of Group 
and the implementation of the strategy.
A.3 The Chairman
The Chairman sets the agendas for the meetings, manages the 
meeting timetable (in conjunction with the Company 
Secretary) and facilitates open and constructive dialogue 
during the meetings.
A.4 The Role of the Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman promotes an open and constructive 
environment in Board meetings and actively invites the 
Non-Executive Directors’ views. The Non-Executive Directors 
provide objective, rigorous and constructive challenge to 
management and meet regularly in the absence of the 
Executive Directors.
B. Effectiveness
B.1 The Composition of the Board
The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly 
reviewing the composition of the Board. In making 
appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee 
considers the wide range of skills, knowledge and experience 
required in order to maintain an effective Board.
B.2 Appointments to the Board
The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the 
Nomination Committee. Further details of the activities of the 
Nomination Committee can be found on pages 38 and 39.
B.3 Time Commitments 
On appointment, Directors are notified of the time 
commitment expected from them and details are set out in 
their letter of appointment. External directorships of Executive 
Directors, which may impact existing time commitments, are 
discussed and cleared by the Chairman.
B.4 Training and Development 
All Directors receive an induction on joining the Board and, as 
part of the annual effectiveness evaluation, the training and 
development needs of each Director are checked.
B.5 Information and Support
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, 
ensures that all Board members receive accurate and  
timely information.
B.6 Board and Committee Performance Evaluation 
During 2014, the Board and its Committees undertook an 
evaluation of their respective performances during 2014. 
Details of the evaluation can be found on page 38.
B.7 Re-election of Directors 
All Directors were subject to shareholder election or  
re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, as will all  
the continuing Directors at the 2015 AGM.
C. Accountability
C.1 Financial and Business Reporting
The Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 to 31 and provides 
information about the performance of the Group, the business 
model, strategy and the risks and uncertainties relating to the 
Group’s future prospects.
C.2 Risk Management and Internal Control 
The Board decides the Group’s risk appetite and annually 
reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and 
internal control systems. The activities of the Audit Committee, 
which assists the Board with its responsibilities in relation to the 
management of risk, are summarised on pages 40 to 44.
C.3 Role of the Audit Committee 
The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the 
Audit Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the 
Group’s financial reporting processes, internal control and risk 
management framework and the work undertaken by the 
External Auditor. The Chairman of the Audit Committee 
provides regular updates to the Board.
D. Remuneration
D.1 Levels and Components of Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee sets levels of remuneration 
appropriately so as to attract, retain and motivate the 
Executive Directors with a view to ensuring the long-term 
success of the Company, but also structures remuneration  
so as to link it to both corporate and individual performance, 
thereby aligning the executive management’s interests with 
those of the shareholders.
D.2 Development of Remuneration Policy and Setting 
Remuneration Packages
Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee and the 
approach to setting the remuneration policy can be found in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 62.
E. Relations with Shareholders
E.1 Shareholder Engagement and Dialogue
The Board takes an active role in engaging with shareholders. 
The Board particularly values opportunities to meet with 
shareholders and the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept 
informed of shareholder views.
E.2 Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting 
The AGM provides the Board with an important opportunity  
to meet with shareholders, who are invited to meet the Board 
following the formal business of the meeting. 36
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Changes to Membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees
As the start of the period, membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees was:
Chairman Member Member Member
Audit Committee David Maloney Martina King Rick Senat Peter Williams
Nomination Committee Rick Senat Martina King David Maloney Peter Williams
Remuneration Committee Peter Williams Martina King David Maloney Rick Senat
On completion of the Combination on 28 February 2014, the membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees was changed and became as set out below. It remained the same through to the end of the period:
Chairman Member Member
Audit Committee David Maloney Martina King Peter Williams
Nomination Committee Rick Senat Scott Rosenblum Arni Samuelsson
Remuneration Committee Peter Williams Martina King David Maloney
All the Committees remained compliant with the Governance Code as regards their membership following these changes.
Leadership
The Board
The Group is ultimately controlled by the Board of Directors of 
the Company. The Board is responsible for the overall 
leadership of the Group and for determining its long-term 
objectives and commercial strategy to create and deliver 
strong and sustainable financial performance to enhance 
shareholder value. In fulfilling its role, the Board ensures that 
necessary financial and other resources are available to enable 
the Group’s objectives to be met. The basis on which the Board 
seeks to preserve value over the longer term and the strategy 
for delivering the objectives is set out in the Strategic Report 
on pages 1 to 31.
The Board meets regularly at least six times a year and also 
once for a strategy day. The meetings follow a formal agenda, 
which includes matters specifically reserved for decision by the 
Board. The Board also meets, as and when necessary, to 
discuss and approve, if appropriate, specific issues. All 
Directors receive notice of such meetings and are given the 
opportunity to comment on the issues being discussed if they 
are unable to attend the meeting.
A schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the 
Board has been agreed and adopted. These matters include: 
setting Group strategy; approving an annual budget and 
medium-term forecasts; reviewing operational and financial 
performance; approving major acquisitions, divestments  
and capital expenditure; succession planning; approving 
appointments to the Board and of the Company Secretary,  
and approving policies relating to Directors’ remuneration  
and contracts.
The Board is supplied on a monthly basis with detailed 
management accounts and an overview of Group financial and 
operational information.
The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive
The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are 
separate. The division of responsibility between the Chairman 
of the Board, Anthony Bloom, and the Chief Executive Officer, 
Mooky Greidinger, is clearly defined in writing.
The Chairman, together with the Chief Executive Officer, leads 
the Board in determination of its strategy having regard to the 
Group’s responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, 
employees and other stakeholders. He is responsible for 
organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness 
and setting its agenda. The Chairman also facilitates the 
effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and oversees 
the performance evaluation of the Board and he regularly 
discusses matters with the Non-Executive Directors without 
the Executive Directors being present.
The Chairman performs a limited number of external roles, but 
the Board is satisfied that these are not such as to interfere 
with the performance of the Chairman’s duties to the Group.
The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the Group on a 
day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the 
financial and operational performance of the Group. He holds 
regular meetings with his executive team consisting of senior 
executives who assist him in this task.
Board Committees
In accordance with best practice, the Board has appointed 
three Committees, an Audit Committee, a Nomination 
Committee and a Remuneration Committee, to which certain 
Board functions have been delegated. Each of these 
Committees has formal written terms of reference which 
clearly define their responsibilities. The terms of reference of 
each of the Board’s three Committees are available on the 
Company’s website (www.cineworldplc.com).
Corporate Governance Statement
Continued 37
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Attendance at Meetings
The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows:
Board 
(including 
strategy day)
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Number of meetings in year 7 5 4 2
 
Attended
 
Attended
 
Attended
 
Attended
Directors for the whole year
Anthony Bloom 7/7
(1)
 5/5
(5)
 4/4
(5)
 2/2
(5)
Philip Bowcock 7/7 N/A N/A N/A
Martina King 7/7 5/5 4/4 1/1
(3)
David Maloney 7/7 5/5
(1)
4/4 1/1
(3)
Rick Senat 7/7 1/1
(2)
 1/1
(2)
 4/4
(1)
Peter Williams 7/7 5/5 4/4
(1)
 1/1
(3)
Directors appointed 27 February 2014
Israel Greidinger 4/5
( 4)
N/A N/A N/A
Mooky Greidinger 5/5
( 4)
N/A N/A N/A
Scott Rosenblum 4/5
( 4)
N/A N/A 1/1
( 4)
Arni Samuelsson 4/5
( 4)
N/A N/A 1/1
( 4)
Director ceasing on 27 February 2014
Stephen Wiener 1/1
(6)
N/A N/A N/A
(1) Chairman of Board/Board Committee.
(2) Rick Senat ceased to be a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees after the first meeting of the year so could have attended a maximum  
of one meeting of each Committee.
(3) Martina King, David Maloney and Peter Williams ceased to be members of the Nomination Committee after the first meeting of the year so could have 
attended a maximum of one Nomination Committee meeting. 
(4) Israel Greidinger, Mooky Greidinger, Scott Rosenblum and Arni Samuelsson were appointed on 27 February2014. There were five Board meetings and  
one Nomination Committee meeting between 27 February 2014 and 1 January 2015.
(5) Anthony Bloom, the Chairman of the Company, attended these meetings by invitation.
(6) Stephen Wiener ceased to be a Director on 27 February 2014. There was one Board meeting in the period up to this date.
Changes to the Board and Committees After the 
End of the Period
On 11 March 2015, it was announced that David Maloney and 
Peter Williams would leave the Board at the AGM and Julie 
Southern would join the Board as a Non-Executive Director, 
subject to election at the AGM. If elected, Julie Southern would 
become the Chair of the Audit Committee. It was also 
announced on 11 March 2015 that Martina King would become 
the Chair of the Remuneration Committee with effect from the 
AGM. In addition the announcement noted that a further Board 
appointment was anticipated and other revisions to the 
composition of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit 
Committees of the Board would be made in due course.
Effectiveness
Directors and Directors’ Independence
At the start of the year, the Board was composed of seven 
members, consisting of the Chairman, two Executive Directors 
and four Non-Executive Directors, all of whom were  
considered independent.
On 20 November 2013, it was announced that Stephen Wiener, 
the Chief Executive Officer, would be leaving the Company and 
that a search would be commenced for a new Chief Executive 
Officer. He stepped down as Chief Executive Officer and an 
Executive Director on 27 February 2014 and his employment 
with the Company ended on 31 March 2014.
On 27 February 2014, Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger 
were appointed as Executive Directors and to the offices of 
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer 
respectively. On the same date, Scott Rosenblum and Arni 
Samuelsson were appointed as additional Non-Executive 
Directors. While Arni Samuelson is considered independent, 
Scott Rosenblum was not because of his previous business 
dealings with the Greidinger family and its interests.
With effect from 6 August 2014, Israel Greidinger’s title was 
changed to Deputy Chief Executive Officer to better reflect  
his duties.
At the end of the period, the Board was composed of ten 
members, consisting of the Chairman, three Executive 
Directors and six Non-Executive Directors of which five were 
considered independent. The names of the Directors at the 
year end together with their biographical details are set out  
on pages 32 and 33. 38
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive 
Directors are set out in letters of appointment and are made 
available for inspection by any person at the Company’s 
registered office during normal business hours and will be 
available at the AGM. Further details of the letters of 
appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and the service 
contracts of the Executive Directors can be found in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 62.
For a FTSE 250 company, which the Company became in May 
2014, the Governance Code recommends that a majority of 
non-executive members of the Board of Directors should be 
independent in character and judgement, and free from 
relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or 
could appear to affect, their judgement. The Board considers 
that Martina King, David Maloney, Arni Samuelsson, Rick Senat 
and Peter Williams were for the period independent Non-
Executive Directors.
David Maloney has been appointed as the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director and he is available to shareholders if 
they have concerns which contact through the normal 
channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief 
Executive or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for 
which contact is inappropriate.
The independent Non-Executive Directors bring an objective 
viewpoint and range of experience to the Company and ensure 
that no individual or group of individuals is able to dominate 
the Board’s decision making. They play a key role in reviewing 
proposals and providing constructive challenge generally  
and in particular in respect of strategy. They also ensure  
that appropriate standards are being maintained. All the 
Non-Executive Directors have access to independent legal 
advice subject to consulting with the Board and following  
the agreed procedure.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and 
supporting the Chairman and the Board on Corporate 
Governance matters, ensuring Board procedures are followed 
and facilitating the good information flow within the Board and 
the Board appointed Committees.
Performance Evaluation
Towards the end of the year, a performance evaluation was 
carried out in respect of the Board, the Audit, Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees and each individual Director 
including the Chairman. As an external facilitator had been 
used for the 2013 performance evaluation, the Board decided 
to carry out the exercise without external assistance in 2014. 
The process adopted involved the completion of assessment 
questionnaires by each of the Directors and Committee 
members. The results were then collated by the Company 
Secretary and a summary presented to the relevant Committee 
and the Board. 
The evaluation confirmed that overall the Board and Committee 
processes were working well and, in particular, the Nomination 
Committee was operating in a more effective manner than 
previously and the Directors including the Chairman were 
performing satisfactorily; however, there were a few matters 
identified where Directors felt that processes could be 
improved in certain areas. As a consequence additional time 
has already been spent on, and more time in the future will be 
allocated to, strategic issues and succession planning.
Re-election
Under the Company’s Articles of Association, at each AGM 
each year one third of the Directors must retire by rotation and 
being eligible may stand for re-election. A Director (excluding 
as Chairman of the Board) must retire (and will be counted in 
the one third to retire) if he was last appointed or reappointed 
three years or more prior to the AGM or has served more than 
eight years as a Non-Executive Director. In addition any 
Director appointed during the year must stand for election  
as well.
All the Directors will be retiring and, except for David Maloney 
and Peter Williams, will be offering themselves for re-election 
at this year’s AGM, reflecting current best practice for larger 
companies under the Governance Code. In addition, as 
announced on 11 March 2015, Julie Southern will be standing for 
election as a new member of the Board. Biographical details of 
all the current Directors are set on pages 32 and 33. In view of 
the performance evaluation, the Board is satisfied that each 
Director standing for re-election continues to show the 
necessary commitment and to be an effective member of the 
Board due to his or her skills, expertise and business acumen.
Nomination Committee Report
Chairman’s Introduction
Dear Fellow Shareholders
For the first time, I am pleased to present a short report on 
the Nomination Committee and its activities during the year.
It has been a busy period for the Committee with the 
Combination completing at the start of the year which 
involved the appointment of four new Directors and then later 
in the year beginning the process to recruit further Directors 
to replace two that will cease to be considered “independent” 
in the near future. Further details of how we recruit and what 
else the Committee does are set out below.
One issue which continues to occupy our thoughts is that of 
diversity. While our Board is diverse in some ways such as 
countries of origin and skill sets, in other areas such as gender 
diversity we have not made as much progress as I would have 
liked. This is not for want of trying, but principally reflects  
our continuing belief that the best person for a role should  
be appointed.
The members of the Committee (apart from me) have 
changed totally during the year and I am grateful to all my 
fellow members who have served with me on the Committee 
for their efforts and support.
Rick Senat
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Composition 
At the start of the year, the Committee comprised four 
independent Non-Executive Directors (namely David 
Maloney, Martina King, Rick Senat and Peter Williams). David 
Maloney, Martina King and Peter Williams left the Committee 
in February 2014 and Scott Rosenblum and Arni Samuelsson 
joined it. While Arni Samuelsson is considered independent, 
Scott Rosenblum is not. The majority of the Committee are 
independent as required by the Governance Code.
Corporate Governance Statement
Continued 39
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
The Role, Responsibilities and Activities of the  
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging 
its responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board. It 
is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience on the Board, the size, structure and 
composition of the Board, retirements and appointments of 
additional and replacement Directors, the independence of 
Directors and makes appropriate recommendations to the 
Board on such matters. It is also responsible for ensuring that 
Directors have sufficient time to discharge their duties on 
appointment, and thereafter, with such matters being 
specifically addressed in the letters of appointment of the 
Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee met for two scheduled meetings during the 
financial year and, in addition, a number of ad hoc times to 
deal with specific issues. Due to the importance that the 
Directors play in the success of the Group, the Chairman is 
invited to attend meetings, and does so, except when his own 
position or his successor is being discussed.
During the year, the Committee recommended the appointment 
of new Directors, reviewed its own performance, reviewed the 
structure of the Board and the three Committees and discussed 
succession issues. It also considered diversity within the Board.
Board Diversity
While the Committee considers gender, nationality and 
cultural diversity all to be important when reviewing the 
composition of the Board and possible new appointees, it 
believes that the single most important factor is to identify, 
recruit and retain the people it considers, on merit, to be the 
best candidates for each particular role. It is not currently in 
favour of setting specific targets for Board representation to 
be achieved by particular dates. As part of the process of 
recruiting new Directors, it has agreed that candidates from  
a wide variety of backgrounds should be considered and, 
where reasonably possible, shortlists should comprise of 
candidates of both sexes.
Recruitment Process for Board Directors
In February 2014, the Combination brought about considerable 
changes to the Board which were part of the negotiation 
process and resulted in both sides agreeing to proceed with 
the merger. Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger were the 
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of CCI. 
Both being experienced international operators of cinemas 
with successful track records of expanding businesses in various 
countries, the Nomination Committee was satisfied that they 
were appropriate to join the Company as its Chief Executive 
Officer and Chief Operating Officer respectively and play a 
major role in its future success. As a part of the arrangements, 
it was also agreed Scott Rosenblum, a US lawyer and the 
Chairman of CCI, should become a Non-Executive Director of 
the Company. Although, accepting that he would not be 
considered independent, his experience and understanding 
of CCI and his experience in corporate governance matters 
would be highly beneficial to the Group going forward. 
Finally, it was agreed that an additional independent Non-
Executive Director should be appointed who was an industry 
expert to strengthen the Board. Possible candidates, who 
were independent, were put forward and Arni Samuelsson, an 
owner/manager of cinemas in Iceland was selected for his 
expertise in, and knowledge of, the cinema industry. He also 
added diversity to the Board in terms of background.
Looking forward, in May 2015, David Maloney and Peter 
Williams, two independent Non-Executive Directors, will have 
completed nine years’ service each and accordingly will no 
longer be classified as ”independent”. Together, they have 
provided the Audit Committee over this period with relevant 
financial experience (as defined by the Governance Code).  
As part of planning for the succession process, the 
Nomination Committee commenced a search for 
appropriately qualified replacements.
In late summer 2014, three external search consultancies were 
approached and, following a review, one, Odgers Berndtson 
was appointed to carry out a search for two replacement 
Non-Executive Directors who would be considered 
independent. Briefs were drawn up for both roles which 
included for one that the appointed person must have 
relevant financial experience as set out in the Governance 
Code. Searches were undertaken following the Company’s 
approach to diversity which led to two shortlists being 
prepared with both genders represented on each. Following 
interviews carried out by members of the Committee, the 
Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive and the Chief 
Financial Officer, the Committee recommended to the Board 
that Julie Southern should be appointed as a Non–Executive 
Director and that she should be appointed to the Audit 
Committee and become its Chairman. The Board agreed  
with this recommendation and as a consequence she will  
be standing for election at the AGM. 
Odgers Berndtson, the external search consultancy used for 
this search, has no connections with the Group or any of its 
Directors and was chosen on the basis of discussions and a 
review process being undertaken involving all members of  
the Committee meeting with all the prospective external 
search consultancies.
The Nomination Committee also recommended that Martina 
King, a current Non-Executive Director and member of the 
Remuneration Committee should become Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee with effect from the AGM and  
the Board also approved this recommendation. An 
announcement confirming Julie Southern’s appointment, 
subject to shareholder approval, and Martina appointment 
was subsequently made on 11 March 2015. In addition the 
announcement noted that a further Board appointment was 
anticipated and other revisions to the composition of the 
Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees of the 
Board would be made in due course.
Accountability
Accountability, Audit and Financial
The Board is responsible for the preparation of the Annual 
Report and ensuring that the financial statements present a 
fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s 
financial position and prospects. Responsibility is administered 
primarily by the Audit Committee, of which the terms of 
reference are referred to below.
A comprehensive budgeting system allows managers to 
submit detailed budgets which are reviewed and amended  
by the Executive Directors prior to submission to the Board  
for approval. 40
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Internal Controls
The Board is responsible for maintaining an effective system of 
internal control that provides reasonable assurance that the 
Group’s assets are safeguarded and that material financial 
errors and irregularities are prevented or detected with a 
minimum of delay.
The Group has in place internal control and risk management 
arrangements in relation to the Group’s financial reporting 
processes and the preparation of its consolidated accounts. 
The arrangements include procedures to ensure the 
maintenance of records which accurately and fairly reflect 
transactions to enable the preparation of financial statements 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
or UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, as 
appropriate, with reasonable assurance and that require 
reported data to be reviewed and reconciled, with appropriate 
monitoring internally and by the Audit Committee.
More generally the Directors are committed to implementing 
measures to ensure that there is an ongoing review of the 
effectiveness of the internal control system with procedures to 
capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in the case 
of those categorised by the Board as significant, that 
procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to 
remedy the failings.
The Board is satisfied that for the financial period in question 
such measures were in place throughout the Group and it did 
comply with the requirements of the Governance Code in this 
regard. Following the Combination, PwC were asked to assist  
in a review of the internal controls of the acquired entities. 
Further details of which are set out in the Audit Committee 
Report below.
The system of internal control manages rather than eliminates 
the risks to business objectives. In pursuing these objectives, 
internal controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material loss or misstatement of the  
financial statements.
Following the decision by the Audit Committee in 2013 to have 
an internal audit function that is supported by external 
specialist resources, a tender process was undertaken in the 
year which resulted in the appointment of PwC as the Internal 
Auditor with a Group wide remit in September 2014.
The objective of the appointment is to assist management in 
the development of the existing approach to internal audit with 
a view to gain enhanced assurance on the effectiveness of the 
system of internal control across the Group. Full operation of 
this new approach will be in place during 2015.
Under the Audit Committee’s terms of reference, it is tasked 
with reviewing the Company’s financial reporting and internal 
control procedures and to make recommendations to the 
Board in this area. Key elements of the Group’s risk 
management and internal control framework during 2014 were:
• The day-to-day involvement of executive members of the 
Board in all aspects of the business and their attendance at 
regular meetings with senior management, at which 
operational and financial performance and operational 
matters were reviewed.
• Financial performance being monitored and action taken 
through regular reporting to the Executive Directors and 
monthly reporting to the Board against annual budgets 
approved by the Board.
• A set of minimum financial control standards being 
introduced by the year end across all Group Finance 
functions following the Combination.
• The senior management team meeting to review current and 
future risks in their particular areas of responsibility and 
expertise and to confirm the current measures in place to 
mitigate those risks.
• An established organisational structure with clear lines of 
responsibility and reporting requirements. Capital 
investment and all revenue expenditure being regulated by  
a budgetary process and authorisation levels (manual and 
systems), with appraisals and post-investment and period 
end reviews. 
• An established in-house internal audit function which had 
access to all areas of the cinema operations in the UK & 
Ireland (and is currently being expanded to the rest of the 
Group) preparing reports which were available to the Board 
and reported regularly to senior management and the Audit 
Committee.
• Reports on health and safety throughout the Group being 
submitted to senior managers, Executive Directors, the Audit 
Committee and the Board on a regular basis.
• The External Auditor providing a supplementary, 
independent and autonomous perspective on those areas of 
the internal control system, which they assess in the course 
of their work. Their findings being reported to both the Audit 
Committee and the Board.
• The Audit Committee reviewing the risk register, receiving 
reports on risk management and internal controls and 
monitoring the overall position and reviewing actions taken 
to address areas of weakness.
• Business Continuity Plans for Head Office being in place with 
components of the plan being reviewed and tested on a 
regular basis.
• A whistleblowing policy being in place to protect members 
of staff who raised concerns about impropriety, financial  
or otherwise.
Audit Committee Report
Chairman’s Introduction
Dear Fellow Shareholders
I am pleased to introduce the report on the activities of the 
Audit Committee (the “Committee”) during the 2014 financial 
year, and to be able to confirm, on behalf of the Board,  
that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced  
and understandable. 
In this report I have detailed how the Committee has 
discharged its responsibilities in relation to the three areas 
highlighted in the Governance Code, being:
• addressing significant financial statement reporting issues;
• assessing external audit effectiveness; and
• appointing the External Auditor and safeguards on  
non-audit services.
Corporate Governance Statement
Continued 41
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Following the Combination which completed in February 2014, 
the Committee has taken an active role in understanding  
the wider Group and the risks and challenges it now faces.  
I reported in the 2013 Annual Report that an exercise had been 
undertaken to review how best to use internal and external 
resources to ensure that our internal audit standards are 
suitable for a Group of our size and complexity. During the 
second half of 2014, we appointed PwC to lead our internal 
audit function. PwC’s initial focus was to review our existing 
policies, processes, controls and effectiveness of the internal 
audit function. The output of this preliminary work was: 
• a detailed internal audit plan for 2015;
• an enhanced risk management framework including an 
updated risk register; 
• a suitable risk-based assurance plan for our financial control 
environment; and
• a Group wide cinema compliance programme.
As part of PwC’s initial assessment, a number of areas were 
identified where controls were not applied consistently across 
the Group’s Finance functions. By spending time in a number 
of territories, a control self-assessment process has been 
developed which sets out the minimum controls to be  
applied consistently in all territories. The finance teams have 
assured that these controls were operating as at the 2014 
reporting date.
We have made good progress in aligning processes and controls 
across the Group and I believe that the implementation of the 
new internal audit structure will continue to deliver an 
efficient and effective way of identifying best practices and 
driving continual improvement across the Group.
David Maloney
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Composition
At the start of the year, the Committee comprised four 
independent Non-Executive Directors (namely David 
Maloney, Martina King, Rick Senat and Peter Williams). Rick 
Senat left the Committee in February 2014. Both David 
Maloney and Peter Williams are considered by the Board to 
have recent and relevant financial experience.
Roles and Responsibilities
The Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibility 
with regard to financial reporting, the control environment 
and the work of the External and Internal Auditors, including:
• monitoring the financial reporting process;
• reviewing the Group’s Annual and Interim Reports;
• reviewing the Group’s risk assessment process, the  
output of that assessment and the associated risk 
management systems;
• reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls;
• considering the scope of both the Internal and External 
Auditors’ activities, their reports and their effectiveness;
• reviewing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit work 
undertaken by the External Auditor; and
• advising on the appointment of the External Auditor.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the 
Annual and Interim Reports remains with the Board. 
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief 
Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, other senior executives, 
the Internal Auditor and the External Auditor may be invited 
to attend meetings, but are not members.
What the Committee Did in 2014
We met five times during the year, during which time we:
• monitored the financial reporting process and reviewed  
the interim and annual financial statements (including the 
preliminary announcement) with particular reference  
to accounting policies, principal risks and uncertainties, 
together with significant estimates and financial reporting 
judgements and the disclosures made therein;
• considered the interim results and the Annual Report and 
Accounts in the context of the requirement that they are 
fair, balanced and understandable, by reviewing periodic 
papers prepared by management with regard to this 
principle. This included reviewing the documents to ensure 
that the description of the business agrees with our own 
understanding, the risks reflect the issues that concern us, 
the discussion of performance properly reflects the 
relevant period and that there is a clear link between  
all the areas of disclosures;
• received and discussed (in the absence of management, 
where appropriate) reports from the External Auditor in 
respect of their review of the interim results, the audit  
plan for the year and the results of the annual audit. These 
reports included the scope for the interim review and 
annual audit, the approach to be adopted by the Auditor  
to evaluate and conclude on key areas of the audit, their 
assessment of materiality, the terms of engagement and 
raising awareness to the Committee of the likely impact  
of future changes to regulation and accounting standards;
• as part of the initial process carried out by PwC, following 
their appointment as the Internal Auditor, reviewed the 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal financial controls 
together with its broader internal control and risk 
management framework identifying the need for  
consistent and appropriate financial controls across  
the enlarged Group;
• established the outputs of PwC’s work to include a  
detailed internal audit plan for 2015, implementation  
of a new risk management framework, introduction  
of a suitable risk-based assurance plan for our financial 
control environment and a Group wide cinema  
compliance programme;
• reviewed the results of non-financial audits (including  
food hygiene and fire safety) and where applicable  
agreed enhancements to procedures and reviewed 
remedial actions;
• made recommendations to the Board with regard to 
continuing the appointment and remuneration of the 
External Auditor, oversight of the Group’s relations with  
the External Auditor and their independence and  
monitored the effectiveness of the audit process; and
• reviewed the Committee’s terms of reference and 
recommended changes to the Board. 
Significant Issues Considered in Relation to the  
Financial Statements
During the year the Committee, management and the 
External Auditor considered and concluded on what the 
significant risks and issues were in relation to the financial 
statements and how these would be addressed. 42
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
(i) The Acquisition of Cinema City Holdings B.V. (“CCH”)
On 28 February 2014, Cineworld Group plc (the “Group”) 
completed the combination with the Cinema business 
(“Cinema City”) of Global City Holdings N.V. (“GCH”), 
formerly known as Cinema City International N.V. (“CCI)”, by 
means of an acquisition of 100% of the shares, including all 
voting rights, in CCH, a subsidiary of GCH. An exercise to 
identify and establish the fair value of the total net identifiable 
assets of the acquired business was undertaken with the 
preliminary results presented in the 2014 Interim Report. 
Given the complex nature of the valuation exercise, and the 
judgemental nature of assumptions (which were sensitive to 
change), the fair values were presented on a provisional basis 
in the Interim Report. This was particularly the case in respect 
of identifiable intangible assets, property, plant and 
equipment (“PPE”) and the acquired leases. 
This exercise was refined and finalised during the second half 
of the year including detailed country by country balance 
sheet reviews by executive management. The process 
resulted in a final goodwill recognised of £337.6m. This is 
further discussed in Note 11 to the financial statements.
Based on the Committee’s enquiries of management and the 
review of work performed by external valuation experts, the 
Committee satisfied themselves that: 
• the fair value of the acquired total net identifiable assets 
(with particular reference to intangible assets, PPE and 
acquired leases) was consistent with the advice received 
from external experts;
• the fair value exercise was thorough and included all 
categories of assets and liabilities (including all  
lease contracts); 
• management have performed detailed country-by-country 
balance sheet reviews and are satisfied that classification of 
balances is correct and that recognition is appropriate; and
• the subjectivity of the valuation process, including the 
extent of fair value adjustments, was appropriately 
disclosed in the annual financial statements.
(ii) Onerous Lease Provisions
As detailed in Note 1 to the financial statements, the approach 
to estimating the onerous lease provision has remained 
consistent with the prior period. The existing approach was 
also applied to Cinema City leases which were assessed as 
onerous at acquisition. It is noted that changes in 
performance of individual sites and the sensitivity of inputs 
mean that the provision is inherently subjective. Management 
evaluate the appropriateness of the provision on at least an 
annual basis. The exercise involves reviewing forecast future 
earnings on a site-by-site basis and ensuring that the 
provision in place remains at an appropriate level. As well as 
considering site performance, management also consider the 
appropriateness of the discount rates applied, the country 
specific discount rate, and ensure that they are updated for 
current market information and the Group’s current leverage. 
Management confirmed to the Audit Committee that the 
methodology had been applied consistently during the 
current year and none of the Committee’s other enquiries,  
nor the Auditor’s work, identified any errors or inconsistencies 
that were material in the context of the financial statements 
as a whole. Management confirmed that they have monitored
the adequacy of the provision historically and concluded that 
there have been no material unprovided costs or unrequired 
provision identified.
(iii) Virtual Print Fee (“VPF”) Recognition
As detailed in Note 1 to the financial statements, a VPF is 
recognised on the date of the showing of the film to which it 
relates. Its recognition in the Statements of Profit or Loss and 
Other Comprehensive Income does therefore not necessarily 
align with when the cash is received. There is therefore an 
element of judgement applied to the accounting process.  
The approach for recognising VPFs has remained consistent 
with the prior period for the UK & Ireland. Cinema City also 
has VPF contracts, however these are direct with distributors 
as opposed to via an agent. A review has been undertaken  
to ensure that accounting policies have been applied 
appropriately to the different contracts across the Group.  
The Committee satisfied themselves that the existing approach 
was appropriate and resulted in accurate recognition by 
enquiring of management and the External Auditor.
As there can be a timing difference between recognition in 
the Statement of Comprehensive Income and cash receipt of 
the VPF income, the Committee enquired of management as 
to whether or not the recovery of cash was a risk. 
Management presented regular updates to the Committee 
which showed the recovery of the VPF income by comparing 
the revenues recognised during the year to the cash received. 
Management reported that there were no significant amounts 
which had not been recovered in line with the standard 
payment terms agreed with the VPF agent or distributor, 
accordingly the Committee was satisfied that the risks around 
non-recovery of cash were minimal.
(iv) Valuation of Property, Plant and Equipment (“PPE”)
As detailed in Note 10 to the financial statements, there is a 
significant inherent risk that the Group’s considerable PPE 
balances may prove to be irrecoverable, due to fluctuations in 
the underlying performance of cinemas or one-off events. 
Given the difficulties involved in predicting the performance 
of sites operated by the Group, now in multiple territories with 
differing factors to consider, there is an element of judgement 
applied to the potential level of impairments to be recognised 
on a cinema-by-cinema basis. At each balance sheet date, 
management prepare their valuation model which assesses 
net present value of the cinema-by-cinema cash flows, based 
on the Board approved budget over an assumed 20 year life. 
The main assumptions over growth rates, the impact of 
one-off events, expected cost increases and discount rates 
are updated to reflect management’s best estimate.
At the period end management prepared their valuation 
model for the Committee’s consideration, together with their 
proposed site impairments. Management confirmed to the 
Committee that they have applied a consistent Group wide 
methodology in the preparation of the valuation model  
and the Committee satisfied itself that the approach was 
appropriate, the assumptions reasonable and that the 
impairments proposed were complete and accurate.  
The Committee also satisfied itself through enquiry of 
management and review of the Board papers that all 
significant events which may have impacted on the valuation 
of PPE had been appropriately captured in management’s 
assumptions and reflected in the valuation model.
Corporate Governance Statement
Continued 43
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Auditor Independence, Appointment, and Tendering
The Committee reviews the appointment of the External 
Auditor each year before the cycle of audits commence and  
in deciding whether to renew the appointment takes note, 
amongst other matters, of the quality of the service received, 
the proposed fees and the Auditor’s independence. 
Management and all members of the Committee are 
consulted during the process. Further details of these 
processes are set out below.
The Committee considers the independence of the External 
Auditor on an ongoing basis and has established policies to 
consider the appropriateness or otherwise of appointing the 
External Auditor to perform non-audit services. In particular, 
under its terms of reference, all non-audit fee work needs to 
be approved by the Committee if the value of such work is 
likely to be greater than £30,000. KPMG have provided certain 
non-audit services to the Group, principally in respect of advice 
on tax compliance and advisory services, pensions and internal 
audit matters with fees in respect of this work totalling £263k, 
£75k and £55k respectively. Further details are set out in Note 
4 to the financial statements. The Committee is satisfied that 
such work was best undertaken by KPMG and their objectivity 
has not been impaired by reason of this further work. 
During the year, the Committee also evaluated the 
performance and objectivity of KPMG and reviewed their 
effectiveness as External Auditor. The effectiveness of the 
2014 audit was assessed by reference to the following:
• The lead audit engagement partner, including the support 
provided to the Audit Committee.
• The skills and experience of the wider audit team and their 
execution of the audit. 
• The planning and scope of the audit including identification 
of areas of audit risk and communication of any changes to 
the plan, including changes in perceived audit risks.
• The quality of communication with the Audit Committee, 
including the regular reports on accounting matters, 
governance and control. 
• The competence with which the External Auditor handled 
the key accounting and audit judgements and communication 
of the same with management and the Committee.
• Their reputation and standing, including their independence 
and objectivity and their internal quality procedures. 
• The quality of the formal report to shareholders.
The Committee also considered the FRC’s Audit Quality 
Inspections Annual Report 2013/14 and Public Report on the 
2013 inspection of KPMG. In addition, during 2014 certain 
aspects of KPMG’s 2013 audit of Cineworld were subject to an 
external review by the Financial Reporting Council (“FRC”), as 
part of the FRC’s annual review of a sample of audits carried 
out by each of the main audit firms. The FRC has provided a 
copy of the report arising from this review to the Committee, 
which it has discussed with KPMG. The Committee noted that 
the report only had one matter formally to report, around 
KPMG’s audit of the Group’s approach to its annual impairment 
testing and onerous lease assessments. The Committee takes 
all such feedback seriously; in this case the matter had 
already been raised with the Committee by KPMG. The 
Committee has satisfied itself that there was no significant 
impact on the 2013 financial statements and that the necessary 
actions have been taken to ensure that it would not recur. The 
Committee are confident that this response was proportionate 
and are satisfied with the way the matter was addressed.
Further, at the conclusion of each year’s audit, the Committee 
discusses the performance of the External Auditor with the 
Executive Directors and relevant senior finance managers 
considering areas such as the quality of audit team, business 
understanding, audit approach and management. Where 
appropriate, actions are agreed against the points raised and 
subsequently monitored for progress. There were no 
significant findings from the evaluation this year. 
The Committee also reviewed the fees of the External Auditor 
which were benchmarked against groups of comparable size 
and complexity to check that they are below or consistent 
with market levels.
After taking into account all of the above factors, the 
Committee concluded that the External Auditor was 
effective. In addition, the Committee is satisfied that it has 
sufficient oversight of the External Auditor and its 
independence and objectivity is not comprised due to the 
safeguards in place.
As explained last year, the combination with the cinema 
business of GCH was a transformational event that led to a 
significant change to both the executive leadership, with two 
new Executive Directors, and the operations of the Group, 
which have expanded outside of the UK for the first time. 
With 40% of operations being in Eastern Europe and Israel 
and the execution risk that existed around the integration of 
the financial reporting systems and establishing the 
associated processes and controls, this was and is a time of 
substantial change and enhanced risk for the Group. As part 
of ensuring the integration of the two businesses was and is 
well controlled, the Committee considered (and continues to 
do so) robust, independent challenge and insight from its 
Auditor to be key to safeguarding the quality of our financial 
reporting and the audit opinion.
Professional standards normally require the audit partner to 
be rotated every five years. The current audit engagement 
partner was appointed for the 2009 audit and so a new audit 
partner would normally have been appointed for 2014. 
However, after careful consideration the Audit Committee 
believed (and continues to do so) that, given the specific 
circumstances faced by Cineworld (as described in the 
previous paragraph), it was necessary to extend the tenure  
of the audit engagement partner in order to safeguard the 
quality of the external financial statement audit. The Audit 
Committee therefore requested that the current audit 
engagement partner continue in the role for up to two years 
and so far he has remained in place for one additional year. 
The Committee has recently considered whether the 
extension for the second year remains necessary. It has 
concluded that this is the case and has therefore requested 
that the current audit engagement partner continue until 
completion of the 2015 audit. KPMG has agreed to this request.
The External Auditor is also required to periodically assess 
whether, in their professional opinion, they are independent 
and confirm this to the Committee. KPMG has provided  
this confirmation. 44
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
In recommending the reappointment of the External Auditor 
at the AGM, the Committee has considered the Competition 
Markets Authority Order, EU Regulation and the Governance 
Code 2014. These regulations are at different stages of 
adoption and have several important differences in how they 
are to be applied. As such, it is not yet clear when Cineworld 
would be required to tender its audit. We understand that 
clarity on how the EU Regulations will be implemented in  
the UK and therefore how they apply to Cineworld will be 
available during 2015.
At this stage, the Committee intends to closely monitor both 
the adoption of the EU regulation and developments in the 
Governance Code to determine when, in light of these 
regulations and the requirements of the Company, it considers 
that it is an appropriate time to tender the external audit.
Insurance
It is not practical or possible to insure against every risk to the 
fullest extent. The Group has in place an insurance programme 
to help protect it against certain insurable risks. The portfolio 
of insurance policies is kept under regular review with its 
insurance broker to ensure that the policies are appropriate to 
the Group’s activities and exposures in light of cost, and the 
likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
Remuneration Committee
Composition 
At the start of the year, the Company’s Remuneration 
Committee comprised four Non-Executive Directors (Martina 
King, David Maloney, Rick Senat and Peter Williams). Rick Senat 
left the Committee in February 2014. The Committee met four 
times during the year and, in addition, a number of ad hoc 
times to deal with specific issues. 
Roles and Responsibilities
The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in determining 
its responsibilities in relation to remuneration, including making 
recommendations to the Board on the Group’s policy on 
executive remuneration, determining the individual 
remuneration and benefits package of each of the Executive 
Directors and monitoring and approving the remuneration of 
senior management below Board level.
The Remuneration Committee appointed Towers Watson as an 
external adviser in November 2008 and again took advice from 
them during the year. Towers Watson have no other 
connection with the Group except as the actuary to the 
pension schemes of Adelphi-Carlton Limited, the Group’s 
operating company in Ireland.
The Chief Executive Officer is consulted on the remuneration 
packages of the other senior executives and attends 
discussions by invitation except when his own position is being 
discussed. Given the essential part remuneration plays in the 
success of the Group, the Chairman is also invited to attend 
meetings of the Committee and does so except when his own 
remuneration is being considered. The Committee does not 
deal with the fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors. The 
report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages  
45 to 62.
Relations with Shareholders
The Directors value contact with the Company’s institutional 
and private investors. An Annual Report and Accounts is sent 
to all new shareholders and is otherwise made available to 
shareholders via the Company’s website unless they have 
specifically requested that a copy is sent to them. 
Presentations are given to shareholders and analysts following 
the announcement of the interim results and the preliminary 
announcement of the full year results. Historically interim 
management statements have been issued twice each year in 
respect of the first and third quarters and trading updates are 
issued as well in early January and late June immediately 
before the Company enters into its close period leading up to 
the interim and preliminary results announcements. 
Separate announcements of all material events are made as 
necessary. In addition to the Chief Executive Officer, Deputy 
Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, who have regular 
contact with investors over such matters, Anthony Bloom (the 
Chairman), David Maloney (Senior Independent Director), and 
Peter Williams (an independent Non-Executive Director) are 
available to meet with shareholders as, and when, required. 
Additionally, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer provide focal points for shareholders’ enquiries and 
dialogue throughout the year. The whole Board is kept up to 
date at its regular meetings with the views of shareholders and 
analysts and it receives reports on changes in the Company’s 
share register and market movements.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and 
institutional investors and welcomes their participation. The 
Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit 
Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination 
Committee are available at the AGM to answer questions, and 
that all Directors attend.
The Company’s website (www.cineworldplc.com) provides an 
overview of the business. Major Group announcements are 
available on the website and new announcements are 
published without delay. All major announcements are 
approved by the Chairman and Executive Directors and 
circulated to the Board prior to issue. The Group also has 
internal and external checks to guard against unauthorised 
release of information.
By order of the Board
Anthony Bloom
Chairman
12 March 2015
Corporate Governance Statement
Continued 45
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Chairman’s Introductory Letter
Dear Fellow Shareholders
As the Chairman of Cineworld’s Remuneration Committee (the 
“Committee”), I am pleased to present our Remuneration Report 
for 2014, for which we will be seeking your approval at our Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) in May 2015.
You will see that there are two principal sections in this report.  
The first part describes how the Remuneration Committee 
implemented our policy as regards to the remuneration of 
Directors in 2014. The second part summarises our remuneration 
policy, which was approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2014 and 
remains unchanged for 2015. Please note that this section has been 
included for reference purposes and has been printed verbatim 
from last year’s report. The definitive version of our current 
remuneration policy as approved by shareholders is included in 
our 2013 Remuneration Report, which is available on our website. 
The Committee has always aimed to be clear and transparent in 
matters of remuneration and we hope that this form of report 
continues this approach and is easy to understand and informative.
The implementation section will be put to the AGM, as it will each 
year, on the basis of a non-binding vote. Our remuneration policy 
will be put to a binding vote every three years, unless there are 
changes requiring shareholder approval.
Combination with Cinema City International
During the year, the Company completed its combination with the 
cinema business of Cinema City International N.V. (“CCI”), by means 
of an acquisition of the shares in Cinema City Holding N.V. (“CCH”), 
a subsidiary of CCI (the “Combination”). The Combination was 
strongly supported by shareholders and completed in  
late February.
The new combined business is of almost double the size of the 
previous Cineworld operations and of significant international 
complexity. The Combination created the second largest cinema 
business in Europe with the number one or number two position 
(by number of screens) in every region in which the enlarged 
Group operates. Cineworld’s estate prior to the Combination 
consisted of 101 sites with 869 screens in the UK and one site in 
Ireland with 17 screens. Immediately following completion of the 
transaction, the enlarged Group had 201 sites and 1,852 screens 
and 89 million admissions in nine countries.
Following the transaction and the appointment of a new CEO and 
Chief Operating Officer (whose title was subsequently changed to 
Deputy CEO), the Committee reviewed the Company’s existing 
policy on executive remuneration and made a number of changes. 
In considering these changes, the Committee sought to balance a 
number of factors, including our existing remuneration policy, the 
material increase in the scale and the international complexity of 
the Group’s operations following the Combination. Major shareholders 
were consulted in relation to these changes, which included an 
increase in salary level and maximum bonus opportunity for  
the CFO and annual award levels under the Performance Share 
Plan (“PSP”). These changes are described in detail in the 
implementation report.
Shareholder Views and Review of Policy
A key factor which guides the Committee’s decisions is feedback 
received from shareholders. It is pleasing that historically the 
Committee has received shareholder support for its past actions 
and I am grateful to our shareholders for this support. At the 2014 
AGM, shareholders approved Cineworld’s remuneration policy 
and implementation report, although at a lower level than the 
Committee would have liked.
The Committee received feedback from our shareholders in 2014, 
both as part of the consultation exercise and following the 
publication of the remuneration report. Feedback from shareholders 
related to topics including the changes to Executive Director 
arrangements as a result of the Combination, the possibility of 
introducing deferral of annual bonuses and PSP metrics and the 
level of vesting for threshold performance. The Committee also 
considered the impact of the updated UK Corporate Governance 
Code in respect of clawback and malus provisions.
The Committee has carefully reflected on the feedback received 
and considered whether it would be appropriate to make changes 
to our arrangements and put a revised remuneration policy for 
shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM. On balance, other than the 
introduction of “malus” and “clawback” into annual bonus and 
long-term incentive awards, the Committee decided not to 
amend our policy for 2015, as we believe that consistency of 
approach is preferable as the Company takes on board the 
changes to the business as a result of the Combination. However, 
we intend to continue to engage with our shareholders in the 
coming year and to take into account all shareholder feedback 
when considering potential changes at the next full policy review.
2014 Performance and Remuneration
The Group delivered a solid year of trading in 2014 with total 
revenue increasing 52.5% to £619.4m (2013:£406.1m), EBITDA up 
75.1% at £126.6m (2013: £72.3m). On a 52 week pro-forma basis, 
reflecting the year-on-year performance of the business acquired 
as a result of the Combination, Group revenue has grown by 1.7% 
and EBITDA by 7.4%. This performance enabled a 33.7% increase 
in the full year dividend per share.
It was a busy year for the Group in terms of the execution of our 
growth strategy and investment activities. In addition to the 
Combination, the existing estate has been enhanced and developed 
with a number of initiatives reflecting our stated strategy. The 
decisions in relation to executive remuneration outcomes made  
by the Committee were taken in the context of this performance. 
Annual bonuses for the Executive Directors, which are based on a 
matrix of Group EBITDA performance against budget and the 
achievement of stretching individual objectives, paid out at the 
level of 75.9%, 75.9% and 69.8% of base salary for the CEO, 
Deputy CEO and CFO, respectively (equivalent to the same 
percentages of maximum opportunity).
The award under the PSP made to the CFO in March 2012 is due  
to vest in March 2015 at 100% of maximum based on EPS growth 
against stretching targets over the three financial years ending 
December 2014.
Change of Remuneration Committee Chairman
Finally, as announced on 11 March 2015, I would like to remind 
shareholders that I will be stepping down from the Board with 
effect from the date of the 2015 AGM. Martina King will be taking 
over the role of Remuneration Committee Chairman from that 
date. Martina has been a member of the Committee since joining 
the Board in July 2010. As part of the handover process, she will 
be offering to meet a number of our major shareholders in order 
to better understand their views on our remuneration 
arrangements, as an input to the Committee’s consideration of 
any changes at the next policy review.
Peter Williams
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Directors’ Remuneration Report 46
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Annual Report on Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee and its Role
At the end of the period, the Company’s Remuneration 
Committee comprised three Non-Executive Directors, Martina 
King, David Maloney and Peter Williams, who are all considered 
to be independent. The Chairman of the Committee was Peter 
Williams and the Secretary of the Committee was the 
Company Secretary. Rick Senat, another Non-Executive 
Director who is also considered to be independent, was a 
member of the Committee until 28 February 2014. Martina 
King, David Maloney and Peter Williams were members 
throughout the 2014 financial period. 
The Remuneration Committee’s principal responsibilities are to:
• make recommendations to the Board for approval of the 
Group’s broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, the 
Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and the Senior 
Vice Presidents (“SVPs”);
• determine the specific remuneration packages of the 
Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary 
and the SVPs;
• approve the terms of the service agreements of the Executive 
Directors, the Company Secretary and the SVPs; and
• approve the design of, and determine the targets for,  
any performance-related pay schemes and long-term 
incentive plans.
The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are 
available on the Company’s website (www.cineworldplc.com). 
The terms are reviewed annually.
The Committee met four times during the period and details of 
the members’ attendance record is set out on page 37
A summary of the Committee’s agenda over the period is 
detailed below:
• revising the Chairman’s fees and setting the salaries of  
the Executive Directors following the Combination;
• reviewing the salaries of the Company Secretary and  
the SVPs;
• setting targets for the annual bonus scheme;
• making awards under the PSP and the Company Share 
Option Plan (“CSOP”), including consideration of target 
calibration and award levels;
• reviewing the 2014 AGM voting figures and considering the 
concerns raised by shareholders;
• consideration of incentive arrangements for cinema managers;
• preparation of this report; and
• considering the remuneration arrangements across the Group.
Remuneration Committee Advisers
The Committee once again received advice from Towers Watson 
during the year in relation to the Company’s remuneration policy 
and its implementation in respect of the Chairman, Executive 
Directors, Company Secretary and SVPs. Towers Watson was 
appointed by the Remuneration Committee in November 2008 
following a selection process involving a number of remuneration 
consultants. Their terms of engagement are available on 
request from the Company Secretary. They attended most 
meetings during the year at the request of the Committee. 
Towers Watson’s fees for advice to the Committee were £61,500. 
They were higher than usual due to work undertaken in 
connection with the Combination. Towers Watson is a member 
of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group and, as such, 
voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation  
to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
During the year, Towers Watson also provided advice to the 
Board on job evaluation and structuring. Towers Watson has 
no other connections with the Company, except as the actuary 
to the pension scheme of Adelphi-Carlton Limited, the Group’s 
operating company in Ireland. The Remuneration Committee is 
satisfied that the advice provided on executive remuneration is 
objective and independent and that no conflict of interest 
arises as a result of these other services.
The Committee also received assistance from the Chairman of 
the Company, the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief 
Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Head of Human 
Resources and the Company Secretary, although they do not 
participate in discussions relating to the setting of their own 
remuneration. The Committee also consulted with the Chief 
Executive Officer and received recommendations from him in 
respect of changes to remuneration packages for the SVPs.
Board Changes in 2014
On completion of the Combination, in February 2014, Stephen 
Wiener stepped down from the office of Chief Executive Officer 
and as a Director and his employment with the Company ended 
on 31 March 2014. Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger were 
appointed as Executive Directors on 27 February 2014 and  
to the offices of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating 
Officer respectively. On the same date, Scott Rosenblum and 
Arni Samuelsson were appointed as additional Non-Executive 
Directors. In August 2014, Israel Greidinger’s title was changed 
to Deputy CEO to better reflect his duties.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Continued 47
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Remuneration for 2014
This section covers the reporting period from 27 December 2013 
to 1 January 2015 and provides details of the implementation  
of the Company’s policy during the period. Those sections of 
the report which are subject to audit are marked as such. The 
policy, which was approved at the 2014 AGM, is set out at the 
end of this report (the “Policy”) for reference purposes. Note 
that the Policy included in this report has been printed verbatim 
from last year’s report. The definitive version of our current 
remuneration policy as approved by shareholders is included in 
our 2013 Remuneration Report, which is available on our website.
During the period, Executive Directors’ remuneration comprised 
an annual salary, a performance-related bonus, a share-based 
long-term incentive scheme, pension contributions and other 
benefits as explained below. 
Base Salary (audited information)
The base salaries of the Executive Directors are reviewed on an 
annual basis. As described in the Policy, the Committee compares 
the Group’s remuneration packages for its Executive Directors 
and employees with those for Directors and employees of 
similar seniority in companies whose activities are broadly 
comparable with the Group. It also takes into account the 
progress made by the Group, contractual considerations and 
salary increases across the rest of the Group.
Base salaries were revised in February 2014 on completion of 
the Combination and came into effect on its completion. The 
salary levels for the two newly appointed Executive Directors 
(CEO and Deputy CEO) and the increase for the CFO reflected 
the significant change in size in the Group and its international 
nature following the Combination. The salaries of the Executive 
Directors were not reviewed in July as has been the 
Committee’s normal practice. Average salary increases across 
the Group were 2%.
Salary levels as at the end of the financial period were:
 (£000)
• Mooky Greidinger: £550 p.a.
(1)
• Philip Bowcock: £375 p.a.
• Israel Greidinger: £375 p.a.
(1)
(1) Part of Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger salaries are paid in  
Israel to enable social security and government healthcare deductions  
to be made.
On 20 November 2013, Stephen Wiener announced plans to 
leave the business in March 2014. From this date, Philip 
Bowcock took on a significant level of additional 
responsibilities on a transitional basis – including taking a 
leading role in the negotiation of the Combination. To 
recognise the additional level of responsibility taken on over 
this period, the Committee decided to award an additional 
one-off transitional salary supplement of £80,031. This 
additional payment was paid in March 2014 and was not 
pensionable or included for the purpose of annual bonus or 
PSP opportunity levels.
Pension (audited information)
Executive Directors are invited to participate in a Group 
Personal Pension Plan, which is a money purchase plan or 
alternatively may receive a pension allowance in cash. The 
Company contribution to this pension scheme for Executive 
Directors is 20% of salary. All the Executive Directors (except 
Stephen Wiener) have elected not to participate in this scheme 
and instead receive a cash pension allowance of 20% of salary.
Company pension contributions/allowances for the period were:
 (£000)
• Mooky Greidinger: £92
• Philip Bowcock: £72
• Israel Greidinger: £63
• Stephen Wiener £25
Other Benefits (audited information)
Benefits in kind for Executive Directors comprised the provision of a company car or car allowance, private mileage, life insurance, 
permanent health insurance, and private medical cover.
Benefit
Stephen 
Wiener
Philip 
Bowcock 
Israel
Greidinger
Mooky 
Greidinger
Car/car allowance £3,905 £14,000 £11,725 £11,725
Driver £4,589 N/A N/A N/A
Private medical insurance £1,571 £1,607 £Nil £Nil
Permanent health insurance £953 £3,221 £1,298 £1,298
Life assurance £1,198 £760 £13,186 £19,054
Disturbance allowance N/A N/A £33,500 £33,500
Israel Greidinger and Mooky Greidinger both received a Disturbance Allowance of £33,500 for the period as under the terms of 
their employment contracts they are required to spend a sufficient and proportionate amount of time at the Company’s head 
office in London. In return for this payment, they do not claim expenses for travelling between London and Israel. 48
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Annual Bonus (audited information)
As described in the Policy, the annual bonus for the year was 
determined by a matrix of EBITDA compared to budget and 
the achievement of specified individual objectives. The choice 
of these measures reflect the Committee’s belief that any 
incentive compensation should be tied both to the overall 
performance of the Group and to those areas of the business 
that the relevant individual can directly influence. The weighting 
between Group financial performance and personal performance 
was 80%:20%. The Committee retains the absolute discretion 
to apply ‘malus’ by reducing or withholding annual bonus 
payments from the formulaic outcome based on EBITDA 
performance (for example, in the event of misconduct or 
misstatement of financial results).
The performance of the Company during the year included 
EBITDA of £126.6m representing 101% of budgeted EBITDA. 
The individual performance element included objectives 
focused on ensuring that the strategic rationale for the 
Combination was fulfilled, bringing with it the expected 
shareholder value, and that certain key risks arising from the 
Combination were addressed, as well as continuing to drive 
growth through successful new cinema openings. The 
Committee judged the individual objectives have been 
achieved at the top level out of five for the CEO and Deputy 
CEO and the middle level for the CFO and Stephen Wiener.
The annual bonus payments for Mooky and Israel Greidinger 
were pro-rated as they were appointed as Directors on  
27 February 2014 and the annual bonus entitlement was 
calculated as a percentage of base salary actually paid in the 
period. Likewise Stephen Wiener left employment on 31 March 
2014 and so was only eligible for a bonus for the period up to 
this date.
The table below shows the actual performance achieved 
during the year and the associated bonus outcomes for the 
Executive Directors.
The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) (audited information)
(a) Awards Vesting Following the End of the Performance Period Ending in December 2014
Awards under the PSP made in March 2012 are due to vest on 26 March 2015. The performance condition applicable to these 
awards is summarised below:
EPS growth performance Vesting level
Less than 3.2% p.a. Nil
3.2% p.a. 30%
9.2% p.a. 100%
Between 3.2% and 9.2% p.a. Straight-line basis
The adjusted diluted EPS figure for the year represented compound average annual growth of 13.2% on a pro-forma basis 
compared to the base year, with the result that the level of vesting for this award was 100%. The number and value of shares that 
will vest to each of the Executive Directors is set out on page 54 of this report.
(b) Awards Made in the Year
Awards were made to the Executive Directors under the PSP in June 2014. The vesting of these awards will be based on 
Cineworld’s three-year EPS growth performance, as summarised in the table below. Following the Combination, the Committee 
discussed the performance condition at some length and decided for awards in June 2014 to increase significantly the thresholds 
for lower and upper end vesting from those used for previous awards and to express targets as absolute growth figures given the 
significantly increased international nature of the Group following the Combination making UK RPI a less directly relevant factor.
EPS growth performance Vesting level
Less than 10% p.a. Nil
10% p.a. 30%
18% p.a. 100%
Between 10% and 18% p.a. Straight-line basis
EBITDA performance
Individual 
objective 
performance
Threshold 
bonus 
opportunity
(£000)
Maximum 
bonus 
opportunity
(£000)
Bonus paid  
(% of 
maximum)
Bonus paid  
(% of base 
salary)
Bonus paid 
(£000)
Mooky Greidinger 101% of budgeted
EBITDA achieved
Above and
beyond
83 459 75.9 75.9 349
Israel Greidinger 101% of budgeted 
EBITDA achieved
Above and
beyond
56 313 75.9 75.9 238
Philip Bowcock 101% of budgeted 
EBITDA achieved
Achieved 64 358 69.8 69.8 249
Stephen Wiener 101% of budgeted 
EBITDA achieved
Achieved 22 122 69.8 69.8 85
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Continued 49
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
In the past, total shareholder return has been considered as an 
alternative or additional performance measure, but difficulties 
in identifying appropriate comparator companies has resulted 
in the Committee deciding to use EPS as the sole performance 
measure. The Remuneration Committee reviews the operation 
of the PSP each year and the performance conditions for each 
grant to ensure they are appropriate for the Company and the 
prevailing internal and external expectations.
Philip Bowcock had a proportional part of his PSP award 
replaced by an HMRC approved share option granted under 
the Cineworld Group Company Share Option Plan (“CSOP”).  
The CSOP options were subject to performance conditions 
identical to those applicable to awards under the PSP.  
There was no similar substitution in respect of the other 
Executive Directors.
The number and value of share options under the PSP and CSOP 
which were awarded to the Executive Directors and vested 
during the period are set out on pages 54 and 55 of this report. 
Non-Executive Directors’ Fees  
(audited information)
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors were reviewed 
following completion of the Combination in light of the 
significant increase in the size and complexity of the Group. 
The adjusted fee levels were set in order to be comparable with 
equivalent fees in companies of broadly similar size and 
complexity. The Chairman’s fee had been last reviewed in 2008 
and, even before the Combination, it had become clear that the 
level of his fee lagged the market significantly. The fees set out 
in the final column of the table below came into effect on the 
completion of the Combination.
The Non-Executive Directors do not receive any share options, 
bonuses or other performance-related payments nor do they 
receive any pension entitlement or other benefits apart from 
expenses in relation to travel costs to attend Cineworld Board 
meetings, including related sustenance and accommodation.
Implementation of Policy in 2015
For the 2015 financial period, the salaries and other benefits of 
the Executive Directors will remain the same as in the 2014 
financial period. The Committee has decided that salary levels 
for the Executive Directors will not be increased at the normal 
review date in July 2015.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity will remain at 100% of 
salary for the Executive Directors. Bonus payments in relation 
to 2015 will be subject to Committee discretion to apply ‘malus’ 
as described on page 48. Following payment, the Committee 
will retain the discretion to ‘claw back’ bonuses in the case of 
misconduct or misstatement of financial results.
The face value of awards under the PSP will be 150% of salary. 
The Committee has considered the calibration of EPS growth 
targets applicable to PSP awards 
to be made in 2015, taking into account internal and external 
performance expectations. The calibration of these targets is 
set out in the table below. The absolute growth figures are 
lower than for the ranges applicable to awards in 2014 (10% p.a. 
–18% p.a.), but it should be noted that awards in 2015 will be the 
first where the EPS figure for the enlarged Group following the 
Combination will be included in the base year. The Committee 
therefore believes that the growth targets remain stretching 
and, if they are achieved, a significant level of value will be 
created for shareholders. The proportion of an award vesting 
for threshold performance will remain at 30%, with 100% 
vesting for stretch performance. Given the significantly 
increased international nature of the Group following the 
Combination, the Committee continues to believe that UK RPI 
is a less directly relevant factor and will therefore express the 
targets as absolute growth levels.
Position held As at 27 December 2013
Following completion 
of Combination on 
28 February 2014
Chairman £100,000 £175,000
Senior Independent Director fee £2,000 £10,000
Non-Executive Director base fee £40,000 £50,000
Audit Committee Chair fee £14,000 £15,000
Remuneration Committee Chair fee £14,000 £10,000
Nomination Committee Chair fee Nil £5,000
Committee membership fee Nil Nil
EPS growth performance Vesting level
Less than 8% p.a. Nil
8% p.a. 30%
16% p.a. 100%
Between 8% and 16% p.a. Straight-line basis 50
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Single Total Figure Table (audited information)
The table gives a single figure for the total remuneration for each Director for the period.
Financial 
year
Base salary 
and fees
(£000)
 Benefits
(1)
(£000)
Annual 
bonus
(£000)
 Sharesave
(2)
(£000)
PSP
(£000)
CSOP
(£000)
Total LTI
(£000)
Pension
(£000)
Total
(£000)
Executive Directors
Philip Bowcock 2014 358 20 249 – 377
(3)
 9
(3)
386 72 1,085
2013 343
(6)
20 176 – – – – 53 592
Mooky Greidinger 2014 459 66 349 – – – – 92 966
2013 – – – – – – – – –
Israel Greidinger 2014 313 60 239 – – – – 63 675
2013 – – – – – – – – –
Stephen Wiener
(4)
2014 122 12 85 – 462
(3)
 5
(7)
467 25 711
2013 479 41 197 – 507
(8)
 6
(5)
513 96 1,326
Non-Executive 
Directors
Anthony Bloom 2014 163 – – – – – – – 163
2013 100 – – – – – – – 100
Martina King 2014 48 – – – – – – – 48
2013 39 – – – – – – – 39
David Maloney 2014 72 – – – – – – – 72
2013 55 – – – – – – – 55
Thomas McGrath
(4)
2014 – – – – – – – – –
2013 14 13 – – – – – – 27
Scott Rosenblum 2014 42 – – – – – – – 42
2013 – – – – – – – – –
Arni Samuelsson
(4)
2014 42 – – – – – – – 42
2013 – – – – – – – – –
Rick Senat 2014 53 – – – – – – – 53
2013 39 – – – – – – – 39
Peter Williams 2014 59 – – – – – – – 59
2013 54 – – – – – – – 54
(1)  See page 47 for details of the other benefits provided to the Executive Directors. The figures in this column for the Non-Executive Directors relate to 
taxable travel costs to attend Cineworld Board meetings, including related sustenance and accommodation.
(2)  Under the Sharesave Scheme, employees are able to acquire shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the market value at grant. The figures in 
this table relate to the value of this discount at the date of grant.
(3) The gain on PSP shares and CSOP option vesting in the period has been calculated using a share price of £3.57, being the average price for the last three 
months of the period (as they will not vest until 26 March 2015) and in the case of the PSP award includes payment of a cash sum equivalent to the 
dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting. The dividend 
equivalent payment to Stephen Wiener will amount to £37,116 and to Philip Bowcock will amount to £30,300.
(4)  Thomas McGrath and Stephen Wiener left the Company on 15 May 2013 and 31 March 2014 respectively.
(5)  This CSOP option, although vested, had not been exercised and for comparison purposes a share price of £3.36, being the average price for the last three 
months of the period, has been used to calculate the value. It was subsequently exercised and details of the gain made are set out on page 55.
(6)  Figure represents base salary and a special one-off salary supplement of £80,031 awarded to reflect the additional level of responsibility taken following 
the announcement that Stephen Wiener was leaving.
(7) Exercised early so figure reflects actual value received, but relates to the period in question. See page 55 for details.
(8)  The gain on the PSP option vesting in this period was calculated using a share price of £3.36, being the average post rights issue for the last three months 
of the period (as they did not vest until 29 March 2014) and included payment of a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the 
vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting. The dividend equivalent payment to Stephen Wiener was £42,349. 
The option was subsequently exercised and details of the gain made are set out on page 54.
For PSP awards from 2015, in addition to the EPS performance 
condition, the Committee, in its absolute discretion, must be 
satisfied that an award holder has performed their duties at a 
satisfactory level over the three years from date of grant in 
order for awards to vest. The Committee therefore retains the 
absolute discretion to apply ‘malus’ to unvested awards, by 
reducing or withholding vesting. Following vesting, the 
Committee will retain the discretion to claw back PSP shares in 
the case of misconduct or misstatement of financial results.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Continued 51
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Loss of Office Payments (audited information)
Cineworld agreed with Stephen Wiener that his employment 
would end on 31 March 2014 and he was paid £349,060 on 
leaving, representing 95% of nine months’ salary and 
contractual benefits. A further payment of £70,585 was made 
to the Company pension scheme on his behalf subject to the 
scheme and HMRC rules and, subject to applicable 
performance targets being achieved, he received a time 
prorated bonus for 2014 of £85,000. Details of the bonus are 
set out on page 48. He also retained the use of his car and 
driver until 31 December 2014 and will continue to be covered 
by the Company’s private medical insurance until 31 March 
2017, or in each case until he finds new employment (which in 
the case of the medical insurance provides equivalent cover). 
For the purposes of awards under the PSP, the Committee 
determined that he was a ‘good leaver’ and these will vest on 
the normal vesting dates, subject to the satisfaction of 
applicable performance targets and on a time prorated basis. 
His awards under the CSOP vested and became exercisable from 
31 March 2014 on a time prorated basis and estimated future 
Group performance. Further details are set out on page 55.
Payments to Past Directors
Richard Jones, a past Director, who left the Company on  
11 June 2011, exercised a PSP award which vested during the 
year. In accordance with the Company’s policy, the award  
had been reduced on a time apportioned basis reflecting the 
period actually worked, vested on its original vesting date and 
remained subject to the requisite performance condition. 
Further details are set out on page 54. Otherwise there were 
no payments to past Directors during the financial year.
External Appointments
Mooky and Israel Greidinger are both Non-Executive Directors 
of Global City Holdings N.V., a party connected to them, which 
is interested in 29% of the issued share capital of Cineworld 
Group plc. In relation to these roles, they retain any fees 
received from Global City.
The interests of Directors and their connected persons in 
ordinary shares as at 1 January 2015 and 12 March 2015, 
including any interests in shares and share options provisionally 
granted under the PSP and CSOP, are presented above.
As described in the policy table on page 59, each Executive 
Director is expected to build up, over a period of time, a 
holding in shares equal to 100% of their base salary. For the 
purposes of these guidelines, only beneficially owned shares 
will count towards the holding.
As at 1 January 2015, Israel and Mooky Greidinger both met this 
shareholding requirement through their interests in Global City 
Holdings N.V. Philip Bowcock, who was appointed in 
November 2011, does not yet meet the requirement, though he 
purchased 10,000 shares in December 2012 and subsequently 
purchased the rights offered on these shares in February 2014 
to give his current holding of 13,200 shares. Under Cineworld’s 
share ownership guidelines, he will therefore be expected to 
retain 50% of any shares which he acquires under the PSP or 
on the exercise of other options, after allowing for the sale of 
shares to pay tax and other deductions, until such time as he 
has built up such a holding. 
Directors’ Shareholdings (audited information)
Beneficial
 Share options
 subject to
 performance
 conditions
(1)
 Share options
 subject to
 performance
 conditions
(2)
 Share options
 not subject to
 performance
 conditions
(3)
Executive Directors
Philip Bowcock 13,200 362,211 12,087 5,810
Israel Greidinger 7 6,6 26, 34 4
(4)
162,619 – –
Mooky Greidinger 7 6,6 26, 34 4
(4)
238,508 – –
Non-Executive Directors
Anthony Bloom 2,158,006
(5)
– – –
Martina King 2,563 – – –
David Maloney 26,400 – – –
Scott Rosenblum 10,377 – – –
Arni Samuelsson – – – –
Rick Senat 26,937 – – –
Peter Williams 52,800 – – –
(1)  Relates to unvested awards under the PSP.
(2) Relates to CSOP options with identical performance conditions to PSP awards and made at the same time.
(3) Relates to share options held under the Sharesave Scheme.
(4) Shares are held by Global City Holdings N.V., a connected party of both Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger.
(5) Shares are held by a nominee for a Jersey-based discretional trust, of which Anthony Bloom is one of the potential beneficiaries. 52
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Six-Year TSR Performance and CEO Pay
The graph below compares the Company’s total shareholder return performance against the FTSE 250 and FTSE All Share Travel 
and Leisure indices over the past six financial years. The Remuneration Committee believes these to be the most appropriate 
comparators as Cineworld is a member of both indices.
Cineworld FTSE All Share Travel and Leisure FTSE 250
Total shareholder return (rebased to 100)
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
400
350
600
550
500
450
Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2014 Dec 2013
Financial year
 CEO single
 figure of total
 remuneration 
 (£000)
(1)
Bonus as 
proportion of 
maximum 
opportunity
LTI vesting as 
proportion of 
maximum 
opportunity
2014 £1,440 76% 100%
2013 £1,326 41% 81%
2012 £1,258 60% 99%
2011 £1,252 68% 100%
2010 £1,212 82% 100%
2009 £858 85% –
(1) Up to 2013 these figures solely relate to Stephen Wiener who was CEO up to and including 27 February 2014. For 2014, it represents a combination of two 
months of Stephen Wiener and ten months of Mooky Greidinger who both held the office of CEO during the period.
Percentage Increase in CEO remuneration
The percentage changes in the value of salary, non-pension benefits and bonus between 2013 and 2014 for the CEO and 
employees generally are set out in the table below: 
 CEO
(1)
 Employees
 generally
(2)
Salary 13% 2%
Non-pension benefits 80% –10%
Annual bonus 106% 150%
(1) For 2013 these figures relate solely to Stephen Wiener who was CEO up to and including 27 February 2014. For 2014, they represent a combination of two 
months of Stephen Wiener and ten months of Mooky Greidinger who both held the office of CEO during the period.
(2) The figures reflect increases for UK based monthly salaried employees excluding the senior management group. This group has been selected as the UK is 
the country in which the CEO is based.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Continued 53
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Relative Importance of Pay Spend
The table below shows figures for people costs, shareholder dividends and a number of other significant distributions of turnover 
that the Committee considers to be relevant in order to provide context to the relevant importance of pay spend.
2014 2013 % change
Staff and employee costs £91.7m
(1)
£65.0m 41%
Of which, Directors’ remuneration costs £3.9m £2.2m 77%
Corporation tax paid £12.1m £9.7m 36%
Other costs £543m
(1)
£369m 47%
Dividends paid £26.9m £18.1m 49%
Retained earnings £34.7m £4.4m 789%
(1) Includes cinema business of Cinema City Holdings B.V for ten months.
Shareholder Voting Results from 2013 AGM
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 8 May 2014, the resolutions to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
and the Directors’ Remuneration Report were both approved on a show of hands. The proxy vote was:
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Directors’ Remuneration Report
Number  
of votes
% of  
votes cast
Number  
of votes
% of  
votes cast
For 182,696,126 86.47% 154,240,771 71.05%
Discretionary 35,034 0.02% 35,034 0.02%
Against 28,555,346 13.51% 62,786,556 28.93%
Total votes cast 211,286,506 100% 217,062,361 100%
Votes withheld
(1)
5,978,431 – 202,576 –
(1) A vote withheld is not counted as a vote in law.
As described in the Chairman’s letter, the Committee received 
feedback from our shareholders in 2014, both as part of the 
consultation exercise and following the publication of the 
remuneration report. Feedback from shareholders related to 
topics including the changes to Executive Director arrangements 
as a result of the Combination, the possibility of introducing 
deferral of annual bonuses and PSP metrics and level of vesting 
for threshold performance. The Committee also considered the 
impact of the updated UK Corporate Governance Code in 
respect of “clawback” and “malus” provisions.
The Committee has carefully reflected on the feedback 
received and considered whether it would be appropriate to 
make changes to our arrangements and put a revised 
remuneration policy for shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM. 
On balance, other than the introduction of “malus” and 
“clawback” into annual bonus and long-term incentive awards, 
the Committee decided not to amend the Policy for 2015, as it 
believes that consistency of approach is preferable as the 
Company takes on board the changes to the business as a 
result of the Combination. However, it intends to continue to 
engage with shareholders in the coming year and to take into 
account all shareholder feedback when considering potential 
changes at the next full policy review. 54
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Share and Share Option Awards Granted and 
Vesting During the Year (audited information)
Awards or grants were made under the three Share and Share 
Options Schemes as follows:
PSP: Awards consisting of nil cost options over shares were 
granted to all three Executive Directors equivalent in value to 
150% of their base salary on 6 June 2014 which will become 
exercisable after three years. Details of the awards are set  
out below. Awards are subject to continued employment and 
the achievement of the performance conditions specified on 
page 48.
CSOP: Philip Bowcock had a proportional part of his PSP 
award replaced by an HMRC approved share option granted 
under the CSOP. The CSOP options were subject to 
performance conditions identical to those applicable to awards 
under the PSP. There was no similar substitution in respect of 
Israel Greidinger and Mooky Greidinger.
Sharesave: A further invitation was made to all UK employees 
to participate in the Sharesave Scheme in April 2014. None of 
the Directors took part in the invitation.
Awards granted or vesting during the year:
(a) Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan
Name of Director
At 
27 December
2013
Awarded 
during year
Vested 
during year
Exercised 
during year
Lapsed 
during year
At 
1 January 
2015
Exercise
price
 Market 
 value at 
 date of 
 exercise
(3)
 Exercise 
 period
(2)
 Gain
(4)
Current Directors
Philip Bowcock – 162,083
(1)
– – – 162,083 £Nil – 06/06/17–
05/12/17
–
Israel Greidinger – 162,619
(1)
– – – 162,619 £Nil – 06/06/17–
05/12/17
–
Mooky Greidinger – 238,508
(1)
– – – 238,508 £Nil – 06/06/17–
05/12/17
–
Past Directors
Stephen Wiener 153,205 – 138,331
(5)
138,331 31,818
(6)
– £Nil £2.9602 29/03/14–
28/09/14
£451,836
Richard Jones 6,547 – 5,911
(5)
5,911 1,360
(6)
– £Nil £2.9602 29/03/14–
28/09/14
£19,307
(1) Mid-market closing price of a Cineworld Group plc share on 5 June 2014, the day before grant, was £3.459. The face value of the award to Philip Bowcock, 
Israel Greidinger and Mooky Greidinger were was £560,645, £562,500 and £825,500 respectively. All three awards were granted as nil cost options.
(2) Subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions (details of which are set on page 48). The awards vesting during the year did not vest in full. 
(3) This was the price per share received in respect of those shares which were sold.
(4) The gain has been calculated using the realised share price on the date of exercising and includes payment of a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that 
would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting. The dividend equivalent payments 
amounted to £42,349 for Stephen Wiener and £1,809 for Richard Jones.
(5) The entitlement was increased for the Rights Issue in February 2014.
(6) The entitlement was reduced to take account of (a) the fact that Richard Jones left on 17 June 2011 and Stephen Wiener left on 31 March 2014 so the 
performance period had not been completed in full and (b) the performance condition attaching to the grants was only satisfied 81.3%.
Details of the awards vesting in March 2015:
Name of Director
Date 
awarded
Number 
awarded
Vesting 
date
Number 
vesting
Number 
lapsing
Exercise 
price
Exercise 
period
Current Directors
Philip Bowcock 26/03/12 87,500 26/03/15 97,177
(1)
 –
(2)
£Nil 26/03/15–
25/09/15
Past Directors
Stephen Wiener 26/03/12 159,683 26/03/15 119,038
(1)
 58,305
(2)
£Nil 26/03/15–
25/09/15
(1) The entitlement was adjusted for the Rights Issue in February 2014.
(2) The performance condition has been satisfied in full so there was no reduction in the shares vesting for Philip Bowcock, but in the case of Stephen Wiener 
there is a reduction to take account of the fact that he left on 31 March 2014 so the performance period had not been completed in full. 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Continued 55
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
(b) Cineworld Group Company Share Option Plan
Name of Director
At
27 December 
2013
Awarded 
during year
Vested 
during year
Lapsed 
during year
At 
1 January 
2015
Exercise
price
 Market 
 value at 
 date of 
 exercise
(8)
 Earliest 
 date of 
 exercise
(3)
Expiry date Gain
Current Directors
Philip Bowcock – 2,891
(1)( 4)
– – 2,891 £3.459
( 4)
– 06/06/17 05/06/24 –
Past Directors
Stephen Wiener 5,050
(1)
– 5,541
(5)
– – £1.7828
(2)
£3.345 01/07/13 30/09/14
(6)
£8,656
 4,801
(1)
– 4,334
(5)
997 – £1.8751
(2)
£3.345 29/03/14 30/09/14
(6)
£6,371
 4,694
(1)
– 3,457
(5)
1,756 – £1.9179
(2)
£3.345 31/03/14
(7)
30/09/14
(7)
£4,933
(1) HM Revenue and Customs approved share options.
(2) Mid-market closing price of a Cineworld Group plc share the day before grant adjusted for the rights issue in February 2014. 
(3) Subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions (details of which are set on page 48).
(4) The face value of the award to Philip Bowcock was £9,999. The mid-market closing price of a Cineworld Group plc share on 5 June 2014, the day before 
grant, was £3.459.
(5) The entitlement was increased for the Rights Issue in February 2014 and reduced to take account of (a) the fact that Stephen Wiener left on 31 March 2014 
so the performance period had not been completed in full and (b) the performance conditions attaching to the grants were not (or would not be) fully 
satisfied which resulted in 98.83%, 81.3% and 88.3% vesting in the three respective grants.
(6) Steve Wiener left on 31 March 2014 and in accordance with the rules of the plan had six months from his leaving date to exercise.
(7) Steve Wiener left on 31 March 2014 and in accordance with the rules of the plan had six months from his leaving date to exercise. Ordinarily the period for 
exercise would have been 26.03.15–25.03.22. 
(8) The gain has been calculated using the share price realised on the date of exercise being £3.345. 
Details of the awards vesting in March 2015:
Name of Director Date awarded
Number 
awarded
Vesting 
date
Number 
vesting
Number 
lapsing
Exercise 
price
 Earliest
 date of
 exercise
(1)
Expiry date
Philip Bowcock 26/03/12 4,694 26/03/2015 5,213
(2)
–
(3)
£1.9179
(2)
26/03/15 25/03/22
(1) Subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions (details of which are set on page 48). 
(2) Adjusting the shares under the option for the rights issue in February 2014 means that the exercise price was reduced from £2.13 and the entitlement increased.
(3) The performance condition was satisfied in full so there was no reduction in the number of shares vesting.
(c) Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme
No share options were granted under the Sharesave Scheme to any Directors during the period and none of the share options held 
by Directors under the scheme vested in the period. One option did lapse. No options under the scheme are due to vest until June 
2015. Details are set out below:
Name of Director
At 
27 December 
2013
Awarded 
during year
Vested 
during year Lapsed during 
year
At 
1 January 
2015
Exercise
price
 Earliest date 
 of exercise
(1)
Expiry date
Stephen Wiener 5,232
(1)
– – 5,810
(3)
– £1.5487
(2)
01/06/15 30/11/15
(1) Subject to regular monthly savings being made with the Yorkshire Building Society.
(2) Adjusting the shares under the option for the Rights Issue in February 2014 means that the exercise price was reduced from £1.72.
(3) Adjusting the shares under the option for the Rights Issue in February 2014 means that the number of shares was increased.
Details of the awards vesting in June 2015:
Name of Director Date awarded
Number 
awarded
Number 
vesting
Number 
lapsing
Exercise 
price
 Earliest date
 of exercise
(1)
Expiry date
Philip Bowcock 19/04/2012 5,232 5,810
(3)
– £1.5487
(2)
01/06/15 30/11/15
(1) Subject to regular monthly savings being made with the Yorkshire Building Society.
(2) Adjusting the shares under the option for the Rights Issue in February 2014 means that the exercise price was reduced from £1.72.
(3) Adjusting the shares under the option for the Rights Issue in February 2014 means that the number of shares was increased. 56
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Policy Report
Executive Directors
Policy Effective Date
This section describes the Committee’s policy on the 
remuneration of Directors. The policy will be put to 
shareholders for approval at our AGM in May 2014 and will 
come into effect from the date of the AGM. The Committee 
intends that this policy will remain in effect for a period of 
three years unless there are changes requiring shareholder 
approval. Following approval at the AGM, remuneration 
payments and payment for loss of office to Directors can only 
be made if they are consistent with this policy or otherwise 
approved by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders.
Current Policy on Remuneration 
The objective of the Group’s remuneration policy is that 
Executive Directors should receive appropriate remuneration 
for their performance, responsibility, skills and experience. 
Remuneration packages are designed to enable the Group to 
attract and retain key employees by ensuring they are 
remunerated appropriately and competitively and that they 
are motivated to achieve the highest level of Group 
performance in line with the best interests of shareholders. 
They are also structured with due regard of risk so no Director 
is encouraged to take inappropriate risks because of the level 
of potential variable rewards.
To determine the elements and level of remuneration 
appropriate for each Executive Director, the Committee 
considers benchmark remuneration data for selected 
comparable companies and seeks to ensure that an 
appropriately significant proportion of potential pay is 
performance related and that total pay opportunity is 
consistent with appropriate superior levels of pay for  
superior performance.
The policy of the Committee is to set performance conditions 
for annual bonuses and long-term incentives which are 
appropriately stretching but fair given the environment  
in which the Group operates and internal and  
external expectations.
While the Board’s normal practice is to operate within the 
above parameters, it will take account of individual 
circumstances and tailor remuneration packages accordingly. 
In cases of material variance, it would seek to take account of 
major shareholders’ views.
Executive Directors’ remuneration currently comprises an 
annual salary, a performance-related bonus, a share-based 
long-term incentive scheme, pension contributions and other 
benefits as explained below.
The table summarises the policy for each element of pay:
 Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation
Basic Salary
To provide a core level of 
remuneration to enable the 
Company to attract and retain 
skilled, high-calibre executives 
to deliver its strategy.
Salaries may be adjusted and any 
increase will ordinarily be (in 
percentage terms) in line with 
those across the Group.
Percentage increases beyond 
those granted to the wider 
workforce may be awarded in 
certain circumstances such as 
where there is a change in 
responsibility, progression in the 
role, experience or a significant 
increase in the scale of the role 
and/or size, value and/or 
complexity of the Group.
Executive Directors’ salary levels are agreed on joining and thereafter 
reviewed annually on 1 July each year
(1)
.
The Committee considers both the nature and the status of the 
Company’s operations and the responsibilities, skills, experience and 
performance of each Executive Director. The Committee compares the 
Group’s remuneration packages for its Executive Directors and 
employees with those for Directors and employees of similar seniority in 
companies whose activities are comparable with the Group. The 
Committee also takes into account the progress made by the Group, 
contractual considerations and salary increases across the rest of the 
Group (which for 2013 were generally around 3%)
(2)
.
(1) Given the new arrangements put in place for Executive Directors in relation to the combination with Cinema City International, no salary increases will be 
made in July 2014.
(2) Stephen Wiener has a contractual right to an annual salary increase in line with RPI, which was in place prior to the Company’s listing in 2007. Going 
forward, and in respect of new appointments, it is the Committee’s policy not to agree any guaranteed minimum increases.
Set out below in full is the Policy Report which was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 8 May 2014. 
The Policy Report has been included for reference purposes and has been printed verbatim from last 
year’s report. The information contained in it is therefore accurate as at 6 March 2014. The Committee’s 
intention is to put its Policy to a binding vote every three years, unless there are any changes requiring 
shareholder approval.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Continued 57
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
 Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation
Pension
To provide market-competitive 
retirement benefits.
Monthly employer contribution of 
20% of basic salary or in the form 
of a pension allowance.
All employees, including Executive Directors, are invited to participate 
in a Group Personal Pension Plan which is a money purchase plan. The 
Company contribution for Executive Directors is 20% of base salary. 
Bonuses are not pensionable.
Executive Directors may choose to opt out of the Group scheme  
and instead receive a cash pension allowance equivalent to 20% of  
base salary.
The Company’s pension contribution may be conditional on the 
Executive Director contributing up to 5% of his base salary to the 
pension scheme. Executives may make pension contributions under 
“salary sacrifice” arrangement. Savings as a result of such an 
arrangement may be shared with the Executive Director in the form  
of an additional pension contribution.
Other Benefits
To provide market-competitive 
benefits and support the health 
and safety of individuals.
The cost to the Group of providing 
such benefits will vary from year 
to year in accordance with the 
cost of insuring such benefits.
Benefits in kind for Executive Directors currently include the provision 
of a company car or car allowance, private mileage, life insurance, 
permanent health insurance, private medical cover and, for the Chief 
Executive Officer only, a driver.
Benefits are tailored to the individual circumstances of Directors to 
ensure that overall packages are attractive and additional benefits may 
be introduced where appropriate.
A limited flexible benefits scheme operates for all employees (including 
Directors) and the intention is to expand it over a period of time.
Annual Bonus
To incentivise the annual 
delivery of financial and 
operational targets.
Maximum opportunity for 
Executive Directors of 100%  
of salary.
The level of bonus is based primarily on overall Group performance in 
meeting its primary financial objectives in EBITDA for the financial 
period. The level of bonus is determined by a matrix of budgeted 
EBITDA and personal performance levels. The weighting of measures  
is circa 80% budgeted EBITDA and 20% personal performance.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the budget is challenging and so 
there is a clear link between the short-term Group performance and 
payout under the arrangements.
• No bonus is payable if a minimum threshold of 90% (2012: 95%) of 
budgeted EBITDA is not achieved. At this level (assuming “good” 
performance against individual objectives), a bonus of 30% of 
maximum opportunity would be payable.
• The maximum bonus level is only payable if both 110% of budgeted 
EBITDA and exceptional performance against individual objectives 
was achieved.
The personal element is determined by the achievement of individual 
strategic objectives, which vary year from year to ensure that objectives 
are aligned with the business plan. Individual objectives vary from year 
to year but our policy is to set goals which relate to the achievement of 
the business strategy. Examples include ensuring a strong pipeline of 
new cinema sites and maintaining good financial controls.
The choice of these measures reflects the Committee’s belief that any 
incentive compensation should be tied both to the overall performance 
of the Group and to those areas of the business that the relevant 
individual can directly influence.
The performance measures and targets are reviewed annually to ensure 
alignment to strategy.
Bonuses are paid in cash following the approval of the Group  
Annual Report. 
Where a Director leaves and is considered a good leaver, he will be  
paid on the usual payment date a proportion of any bonus entitlement, 
which would have otherwise accrued, reflecting that part of the bonus 
period which was actually worked. 58
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
 Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation
The Cineworld Group 
Performance Share Plan 
(“PSP”)
To encourage sustainable 
profitability over a period of 
time aligned to the overall 
objective of achieving 
sustainable growth.
The maximum award to an 
individual in any year under the 
plan rules is 200% of base salary. 
However, the Remuneration 
Committee does not currently 
intend that awards to Executive 
Directors should exceed 150% of 
their base salary
(3)
.
If it is considering changing this 
approach, it will consult with key 
shareholders before doing so.
Annual awards of conditional shares or nil-cost options are made to 
Executive Directors and members of the Senior Management Team at 
the discretion of the Committee.
Awards may vest after three years subject to continuing employment 
and the achievement of stretching three-year EPS growth performance 
conditions which are aligned with the Group’s strategy of delivering 
long-term growth.
The Committee will review and calibrate the EPS growth targets on an 
annual basis for each award to ensure they are sufficiently stretching in 
light of both internal and external performance expectations. Threshold 
performance is generally intended to align to the performance of the 
relevant market and/or our competitors’ level. If the stretch performance 
level is achieved, we would expect to have significantly out-performed 
the relevant market and for term and against our competitors.
At the threshold performance level, 30% of an award will vest. At the 
stretch level of performance, 100% of an award will vest. Between these 
levels, vesting will be determined on a straight-line basis.
On vesting, participants will also receive additional shares or a cash sum 
equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the vested 
shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant  
and vesting.
At the discretion of the Committee, each participant in the PSP may 
have a proportional part of their PSP award replaced by an HMRC 
approved share option granted under the Cineworld Group Company 
Share Option Plan (“CSOP”), up to the maximum value of options 
permitted by legislation (currently £30,000). Such awards are  
subject to identical performance vesting conditions as the PSP  
shares they replace.
The conditions applicable to awards may be varied in exceptional 
circumstances following the grant of an award so as to achieve their 
original purpose, but not so as to make their achievement any more or 
less difficult to satisfy. Awards may also be adjusted to reflect corporate 
events, such as rights issues, to maintain a holder’s position, but not so 
as to enhance it.
It is the Committee’s intention to settle awards in shares, but the plan 
rules allow for flexibility to settle in cash if required. Where vesting of 
any award granted would result in the Greidinger family (the family of 
the new CEO and COO) controlling shares carrying 30% or more of the 
voting rights of the Company then the Committee may instead make a 
cash payment equal to the market value of the shares comprised in the 
vested award.
The Cineworld Group 
Sharesave Scheme
To enable Group employees to 
become Cineworld 
shareholders, encouraging 
alignment and rewarding for 
Group performance.
The maximum saving level  
is £250 a month over a  
three-year term.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Sharesave Scheme, 
which is an HM Revenue and Customs approved scheme open to all 
employees of nominated Group companies.
Under the Sharesave Scheme, employees are eligible to acquire shares 
in the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the market value at grant 
if they agree to enter into a savings contract for a three-year period. 
Consistent with the relevant legislation, no performance conditions apply.
Awards may also be adjusted to reflect corporate events, such as rights 
issues, to maintain a holder’s position, but not so as to enhance it.
(3) As a result of the combination with the cinema business of Cinema City International N.V. and in recognition of the increased size and international 
complexity of the combined business, the Committee has determined to increase the annual award level under the PSP for Executive Directors from 
100% to 150% of salary. Major shareholders have been consulted in relation to the adjustment of PSP award levels.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Continued 59
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
 Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation
Share Ownership Guidelines
To provide alignment between 
Executive Directors  
and shareholders.
N/A Each Executive Director is expected to build up, over a period of time,  
a holding in shares equal to 100% of their base salary.
In order to achieve this level of shareholding, Executive Directors are 
expected to retain 50% of any shares they acquire under the PSP or on 
the exercise of options, after allowing for the sale of shares to pay tax 
and other deductions, until such time as they have built up such a 
holding. For the purposes of these guidelines, only beneficially owned 
shares will count towards the holding.
Satisfaction of Share Options and Share Awards
Awards under the PSP, the Sharesave Scheme and the CSOP 
described in the table above can be satisfied using new issue 
shares, shares held in treasury or shares purchased in the 
market in conjunction with the Cineworld Group Employee 
Benefit Trust (the “Trust”), established by the Company on  
24 March 2006 with independent trustees based in Jersey.
If new issue shares are used, the following limits will be followed:
• In any ten-year period, the number of shares which may be 
issued under the PSP and under any other executive share or 
option scheme established by the Company may not exceed 
5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company 
from time to time.
• In any ten-year period, the number of shares which may be 
issued under the PSP and under any employees’ share or 
option scheme established by the Company may not 
exceed 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company from time to time.
Resulting Total Pay Levels Under  
Different Scenarios
The chart below illustrates how the potential future 
compensation of each of the Executive Directors may vary  
at different levels of performance and the percentage each 
element may form together with the possible total value.
For the purpose of this chart, the following assumptions have 
been made:
• The base salary, bonus opportunity and PSP award levels 
are those for the Executive Directors following completion 
of the combination with the cinema business of Cinema 
City International N.V. as set out on page 58 of the 2013 
Annual Report.
• Fixed elements comprise base salary, pension and  
other benefits.
• Benefits levels are assumed to be the same as in 2013.
• For target performance, assumptions of bonus payout of 
67% of maximum and threshold vesting (30%) for PSP have 
been made.
• No share price increase has been assumed.
CEO COO CFO
Fixed Elements
Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum
£2.0m
£1.5m
£2.5m
£0.5m
£0m
£1.0m
Short-Term Variable Element
£2,098,215
£510,162
£1,337,382
£723,215
Long-Term Variable Element
100%
100% 55% 35%
27%
26%
18%
39%
100% 53% 33%
28%
27%
19%
40%
54%
27%
35%
26%
19%
39%
£928,912
£1,447,662
£470,162
£888,912
£1,407,662 60
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Recruitment Remuneration Policy
New Executive Directors will generally be appointed on 
remuneration packages with the same structure and 
elements as described in the policy table above. On 
appointment, base salary level will be set taking into account 
a range of factors including market levels, experience, internal 
relativities and cost. Annual bonus opportunity will be no 
greater than 100% of salary and the normal maximum award 
under the PSP will be 150% of salary.
For external appointments, although we have no plans to 
offer additional benefits, cash and/or share-based elements 
on recruitment, the Committee reserves the right to do so 
when it considers this to be in the best interests of the 
Company and shareholders. Such payments will take account 
of remuneration relinquished when leaving the former 
employer and, to the extent possible, would reflect the nature, 
time horizons and performance requirements attaching to 
that remuneration. If it is necessary in the circumstances, the 
Committee reserves the right to offer a longer initial notice 
period than one year. In such a circumstance, this would 
reduce to a notice period of no greater than 12 months after 
the initial period. The Committee may agree that the Company 
will meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate or pay  
a disturbance allowance.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element 
awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay 
out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into 
account the appointment. In addition, any other ongoing 
remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment  
may continue.
Shareholders will be informed of any Director appointment 
and the individual’s remuneration arrangements as soon as 
practicable following the appointment via an announcement 
to the regulatory news services and on our website.
Service Contracts
The Group’s policy in entering into service contracts with 
Executive Directors is to enable the recruitment of high-quality 
executives and to obtain protection from their sudden 
departure, whether or not to competitor companies. In 
addition, service contracts are an important element in 
maintaining protection for the Group’s business and its 
commercially sensitive information.
A summary of the key terms of the Executive Directors’ 
service contracts is set out below:
Stephen Wiener
(1)
Philip Bowcock Moshe Greidinger
(2)
Israel Greidinger
(2)
Date of Contract 23 April 2007 16 November 2011 27 February 2014 27 February 2014
Notice Period
(3)
12 months 6 months 12 months 6 months
Remuneration • Base salary
• Pension contribution
• Company car  
and driver
• Entitlement to 
participate in annual 
bonus scheme
• Life assurance cover
• Medical insurance
• Permanent health 
insurance
• Base Salary
• Cash in lieu of  
pension contribution
• Car allowance
• Entitlement to 
participate in annual 
bonus scheme
• Life assurance cover
• Medical insurance
• Permanent health 
insurance
• Base salary
• Pension contribution
• Company car or  
car allowance
• Entitlement to 
participate in annual 
bonus scheme
• Disturbance allowance
• Life assurance cover
• Medical insurance
• Permanent health 
insurance
• Base salary
• Pension contribution
• Company car or  
car allowance
• Entitlement to 
participate in annual 
bonus scheme
• Disturbance allowance
• Life assurance cover
• Medical insurance
• Permanent health 
insurance
Termination Company has right to 
terminate on payment  
on pre-agreed basis
Company has right to 
terminate on payment  
on pre-agreed basis
Company has right to 
terminate on payment  
on pre-agreed basis
Company has right to 
terminate on payment  
on pre-agreed basis
Non-Competition During employment and 
for 12 months thereafter
During employment and 
for 6 months thereafter
During employment and 
for 12 months thereafter
During employment and 
for 6 months thereafter
(1) Stephen Wiener resigned as CEO and a Director on the completion of the combination with the cinema operations of Cinema City International N.V. on  
27 February 2014.
(2) Appointed on the completion of the combination with the cinema operations of Cinema City International N.V. on 27 February 2014.
(3) The Group’s policy is to have notice periods for Executive Directors which are between 6 and 12 months.
The Executive Directors are, under the terms of their service contracts, entitled to an annual review of their base salary each year. 
In the case of Stephen Wiener, a minimum increase in line with RPI had to be made.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Continued 61
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Loss of Office Policy
The Company’s policy is to endeavour to minimise any 
payment on early termination by insisting on mitigation of 
any loss where possible. To allow the Company to terminate 
an Executive Director’s employment contract legally so it 
would not face a claim for wrongful termination (although a 
claim for unfair dismissal could still exist), its policy is to 
pre-agree arrangements which would apply on termination. 
Only the Company has the right to trigger such arrangements 
and it has complete discretion as to whether it does.
Under the terms of their contracts, the Company may, in lieu 
of giving notice, terminate an Executive Director’s service 
contract by making a payment equivalent to 95% (in the case 
of Stephen Wiener) and 100% (in the case of the other 
Executive Directors) of base salary and contractual benefits 
for the notice period. In this event, the Executive Director 
would not be entitled to any bonus for the unworked portion 
of his notice period, but would be eligible for a pro rata bonus 
for the period up to the date of the termination of his contract.
Where an Executive Director works their notice, pension, 
benefits and bonus will continue to accrue as normal up until 
the date of the termination. Any bonus entitlement will be 
paid as normal on a prorated basis.
Leaving arrangements under the Share and Share Option 
Schemes vary:
A. Under the PSP:
An award will normally lapse upon a participant leaving the 
employment of the Group unless the Remuneration 
Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise determines. 
Any such discretion would only be applied by the Committee 
to “good leavers” where it considers that continued 
participation is justified by reference to past performance to 
the date of leaving or because of the prevailing 
circumstances. In such cases, the award would become 
exercisable on the original vesting date on a reduced basis 
taking into account only that part of the three-year 
performance period which has elapsed and subject to the 
satisfaction of performance conditions unless the 
Remuneration Committee determines other arrangements 
are justified.
In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement 
or winding-up of the Company all awards will vest to the 
extent that any performance targets have, in the opinion of 
the Remuneration Committee, been satisfied at that time, on 
a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the 
three-year performance period which has elapsed unless the 
Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise 
determines. An award, to the extent it becomes exercisable, 
may be exercised during the period of one month after which, 
to the extent unexercised, the award will lapse. Alternatively, 
with the agreement of the acquiring company, the 
participants may exchange their awards for equivalent 
options to acquire shares in the acquiring company or its 
parent company.
B. Under the CSOP:
An option will normally lapse upon a participant leaving the 
employment of the Group. However, if a participant leaves 
the Group by reason of death, injury, ill health, disability, 
redundancy, retirement (as at or after reaching 55 years 
under Part A of the CSOP) or any other reason as determined 
by the Remuneration Committee or if the company or 
business for which he works ceases to be part of the Group, 
then unless the Remuneration Committee in its absolute 
discretion otherwise determines, his option will become 
exercisable when he leaves on a reduced basis taking into 
account only that part of the three-year performance period 
which has elapsed. An option, to the extent it becomes 
exercisable, may be exercised during the period of six months 
after which, to the extent unexercised, the option shall lapse 
automatically.
In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement 
or winding-up of the Company all options will vest to the 
extent that any performance targets have, in the opinion of 
the Remuneration Committee, been satisfied at that time, on 
a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the 
three-year performance period which has elapsed unless the 
Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise 
determines. Such options become exercisable for a limited 
period of time. Alternatively in the case of a takeover, with the 
agreement of the acquiring company, the participants may 
exchange their options for equivalent options to acquire 
shares in the acquiring company or its parent company.
C. Under the Sharesave Scheme:
An option granted may normally not be exercised until the 
option holder has completed their savings contract and then 
not more than six months thereafter. However, if a participant 
leaves the Group by reason of death, injury, ill health, 
disability, redundancy, retirement (on reaching 60 years or 
any other contractual retirement age) or if the company or 
business for which he works ceases to be part of the Group, 
the option will become exercisable. An option, to the extent it 
becomes exercisable, may be exercised during the period of 
six months (12 months in the case of death) after which, to 
the extent unexercised, the option will lapse automatically.
In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement 
and/or a winding-up of the Company, options may be 
exercised for a limited period of time. Alternatively in the case 
of a takeover, with the agreement of the acquiring company, 
the participants may exchange their options for equivalent 
options to acquire shares in the acquiring company or its 
parent company. By order of the Board
Peter Williams
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
12 March 2015
62
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Non-Executive Directors
Letters of Appointment
The dates of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and their notice periods are as follows:
Director Date of appointment Notice period
Anthony Bloom (Chairman) 7 October 2004 1 month
Martina King 2 July 2010 1 month
David Maloney 22 May 2006 1 month
Thomas McGrath 16 May 2005 1 month
Rick Senat 2 July 2010 1 month
Peter Williams 22 May 2006 1 month
Scott Rosenblum
(1)
27 February 2014 1 month
Arni Samuelsson
(1)
27 February 2014 1 month
(1) Appointed on the completion of the combination with the cinema operations of Cinema City International N.V. on 27 February 2014.
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, do not 
have service contracts with the Company. The terms and 
conditions of their appointment as Non-Executive Directors 
are set out in letters of appointment, which are subject to the 
provisions of the Articles of Association.
It is the Board’s policy that the appointment of each 
Non-Executive Director is terminable on a short notice unless 
their appointment is terminated by a resolution of the 
shareholders in general meeting or if they fail to be re-elected 
by shareholders in general meeting when it aims to ensure no 
notice is necessary.
The Company’s policy is that Non-Executive Directors receive 
a fixed fee for their services as members of the Board and its 
Committees. Non-Executive Directors do not participate in 
the Company’s share incentives or otherwise receive 
performance-related pay but may receive reimbursement for 
travel and incidental costs incurred in furtherance of 
Company business.
The level of fees is determined by the Board after taking into 
account appropriate advice (except in the case of the 
Chairman whose level of fee is determined by the 
Remuneration Committee), in line with prevailing market 
conditions and at a level that will attract individuals with the 
necessary experience and ability to make a significant 
contribution to the Company’s affairs. No Director 
participates in discussions relating to the setting of his or her 
own remuneration. Fee levels are reviewed on an annual basis.
Where a Non-Executive Director does not serve until the end 
of his or her term, the policy is to pay the fees due pro rata to 
the date of cessation.
Consideration of Employment Conditions 
Elsewhere in the Company
When considering salary increases for the Executive 
Directors, the Committee takes into account average levels  
of increase awarded to employees generally. Salary increases 
will normally be broadly in line with those for other employees.
The Committee does not formally consult employees in 
relation to remuneration policy for the Executive Directors. 
However, the Company regularly carries out engagement 
surveys which enable employees to share their views  
with management.
Consideration of Shareholder Views in 
Developing Policy
The Committee is grateful that shareholders have been 
supportive of its policy in the past. As appropriate, the 
Committee will continue to engage and communicate with 
shareholders regarding Cineworld’s remuneration policy and 
take suitable action when required.
In the last year, the Committee considered feedback from 
some shareholders in relation to the setting of performance 
targets for PSP awards. For awards in 2013, it was decided to 
increase the thresholds for lower and upper end vesting from 
those used for previous awards and to express targets in 
excess of RPI.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Continued 63
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited 
financial statements for the 53 week period ended 1 January 
2015. The comparative period is for the 52 week period ended 
26 December 2013.
Management Report 
This Directors’ Report together with the Strategic Report on 
pages 1 to 31 form the Management Report for the purposes  
of rule 4.1.8R of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Information Contained Elsewhere in the  
Annual Report 
Information required to Information required to be part of this 
Directors’ Report can be found elsewhere in the Annual Report 
as indicated in the table below and is incorporated into this 
Report by reference: 
Information Location in Annual Report 
Likely future developments in the 
business of the Company or its 
subsidiaries
Pages 21 to 22
Corporate Governance Statement Pages 34 to 44
Corporate Responsibility Pages 30 to 31
Directors’ Biographies Pages 32 to 33
Details of Gender Diversity Page 31
Key Performance Indicators Pages 14 and 15
Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities in respect of the 
Annual Report and Financial 
Statements
Page 69
Financial instruments: Information 
on the Group’s financial risk 
management objectives and 
policies, and its exposure to credit 
risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk 
and foreign currency risk
Note 22 on pages  
112 to 116
Forward Looking Statements
Certain statements in these sections are forward looking and 
so involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events, 
and depend upon circumstances, that will occur in the future. 
Therefore results and developments can differ materially from 
those anticipated. The forward looking statements reflect 
knowledge and information available at the date of preparation 
of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation 
to update these forward looking statements. Nothing in this 
Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”)
The Board of Directors and executive management receive a 
wide range of management information to monitor the 
development of the Group. The KPIs are set out in the Strategic 
Report on page 14 to 15 and a short explanation of some of 
those KPIs are set out below:
Admissions
This measure is the ultimate driver of the business and primary 
indicator of business volume.
Box Office Revenue
This measure represents the principal revenue stream of the 
Group and is used generally within the cinema industry as the 
measure of market share (as reported by Rentrak).
Retail Spend per Customer
Retail spend per head is a measure of the value of the retail 
activity and our ability to generate other revenues directly from 
our customers. Both box office and retail measures are stated 
excluding VAT.
EBITDA
EBITDA (as defined in Note 1 to the financial statements) serves 
as a useful proxy for cash flows generated by operations and  
of the Group’s ability to finance its capital expenditure and  
pay dividends.
Earnings per Share (“EPS”)
EPS (as defined in Note 5 to the financial statements) is a 
simple measure of earnings attributable to each share and by 
comparing the figure from year to year gives an indication of 
the relative performance of the Company.
Results and Dividends
The results for the Group for the 53 week period ended  
1 January 2015 are presented under International Financial 
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the EU. The 
results for the period are set out in the Group Consolidated 
Statement of Profit or Loss on page 73. The results for the 
Company are drawn up under UK GAAP.
An interim dividend of 3.8p per share was paid on 3 October 
2014. The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 9.7p 
which, if approved by the shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting (“AGM”), will be paid on 9 July 2015 to shareholders on 
the register on 12 June 2015.
Events Affecting the Company Since Year End
On 29 January 2015, in accordance with the Competition 
Commission ruling, the Group announced that Cineworld 
Cambridge had been sold to The Light Cinema chain for a  
cash consideration of £8million. Further details are set out  
in Note 26 to the financial statements.
Financial Risk Management
The Board of Cineworld Group plc regularly reviews the 
financial requirements of the Group and the risks associated 
therewith. The Group does not currently use complicated 
financial instruments, and where financial instruments are used 
it is for reducing interest rate risk (subject to the below). The 
Group does not use derivative financial instruments for trading 
purposes. Group operations are primarily financed from 
retained earnings and bank borrowings including an overdraft 
facility. Further details of capital management are set out in 
Note 22 to the financial statements. In addition to the primary 
financial instruments, the Group also has other financial 
instruments such as debtors and trade creditors that arise 
directly from the Group’s operations.
On 10 January 2014, Cineworld Group plc announced the 
combination with the cinema business of Cinema City 
International N.V. (“CCI”), a leading cinema business in seven 
countries across Central and Eastern Europe and Israel 
(“Cinema City”), by means of an acquisition of the shares in  64
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Cinema City Holding B.V. (“CCH”), a subsidiary of CCI (“CCI 
Transaction”) which completed on 28 February 2014. After the 
completion of the transaction the Group is subject to greater 
currency risk exposure. Wherever possible, overseas 
operations fund their day-to-day working capital requirements 
in local currency with cash generated from operations, 
naturally hedging the currency risk exposure to the Group. 
Management continually monitor the level of currency risk 
exposure, and consider hedging where appropriate. Currently 
the Group considers the currency risk on consolidation of the 
assets and liabilities of its foreign entities to be of low 
materiality and no hedging has been undertaken. 
At the start of the period, prior to the combination with the 
cinema business of CCI, the Group had a bank loan which 
consisted of a term loan and a revolving facility of £87.5m and 
£100m respectively. Interest was charged on the facility at 
LIBOR plus 1.75%. The whole of the balance of the original 
£70m term loan amounting to £55m continued to be hedged. 
The Group took steps to ensure that the swaps were accounted 
for as hedges and that changes in valuation were recognised 
through reserves. Further information is provided in Notes 17 
and 22 to the financial statements.
As part of the combination with CCI, the Company entered into 
a new five-year facility to part finance such combination and 
repay the existing facility. An element of the new facility was 
drawn to part settle the acquisition cash consideration of 
£272m and €14.5m. The residual of the facility was drawn to 
repay the existing facilities of the combined Group and to fund 
general working capital requirements going forward. The new 
facility provides funding of £400m of which £275m is a term 
loan and £125m is a revolving credit facility. £160m (€192m) of 
the new facility is available in Euros, reflecting the composition 
of the combined Group. This new financing arrangement 
became effective on 10 January 2014, but the new facility  
was not drawn and the existing facility was not repaid until  
27 February 2014. As with the previous facility, the new facility 
is subject to floating interest rate charges. In line with the terms 
of the new facility agreement, management implemented 
hedging arrangements totalling 50% of the total term loan to 
mitigate the risk of a material impact arising from interest rate 
fluctuations. The existing hedges on the previous loan were 
transferred and offset against the requirements for the new 
facility resulting in the total amounts hedged of £82.5m and 
€66m. At the end of the year the Group had drawn down 
£165m and €132m totalling £275m of term loan plus £44m of 
the revolving loan. The interest charged was LIBOR plus 1.9% 
on the sterling and LIBOR plus 2.15% on the Euro amount.
Funding and Liquidity 
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity 
position and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief 
Executive Officer’s Review on pages 18 to 25. In addition, Note 
22 to the financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial  
risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments 
and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and 
liquidity risk.
As highlighted in Note 22 to the financial statements, at the 
start of the year the Group met its day-to-day working capital 
requirements through its bank facilities which consisted of a 
five-year facility of £187.5m, which comprised of a £87.5m term 
loan and £100m revolving facility. These facilities were repaid 
from the Group’s new facility following the combination with 
the cinema business of CCI which provide funding of £400m of 
which £275m is a term loan and £125m is a revolving credit 
facility, part of which is used by the Group to meet its day-to-
day working capital requirements. At the end of the period, the 
Group had drawn down £165m and €132 totalling £275m of 
term loan plus £44m of the revolving loan. 
The new bank facility is subject to two covenants: the ratio of 
EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent 
EBITDA) to net finance charges. While the current economic 
conditions create uncertainty particularly over (a) the level of 
demand for the Group’s products; and (b) the availability of 
bank finance in the foreseeable future, the Group’s forecasts 
and projections, taking account of reasonably possible 
changes in trading performance, show that the Group should 
be able to operate within the level of its current facility, 
including compliance with the bank facility covenants. 
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group 
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for 
the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the annual financial statements.
Overseas Operations
At the financial year end, the Group had overseas operations in 
Jersey, Ireland, Poland, Israel, Hungary, Czech Republic, 
Bulgaria, Romania and Slovakia.
Substantial Shareholdings
At 1 January 2015, the Group had been notified, pursuant to the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in 
the voting rights of the Company. Notifications confirming a 
party’s interest has gone below the threshold notification level 
have not been included:
Shareholder Voting rights
 % of total
 voting rights
(1)
Nature of holding
Global City Holdings N.V. (formerly Cinema City 
International N.V.)
(2)
76,626,344 29.0 Direct
Mawer Investment Management Limited 21,138,482 8.01 Direct
Royal London Asset Management Limited 13,315,436 5.05 Direct
Aviva plc 10,698,450 4.06 Direct and Indirect
(1) Percentages are stated as at the time of notification. The total number of voting rights at 1 January 2015 was 263,860,665.
(2) Global City Holdings N.V. is majority owned by the Greidinger family including Mooky and Israel Greidinger.
Directors’ Report
Continued 65
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
The following additional notifications were received in the period from 2 January 2015 up to 11 March 2015 (the last practicable 
date to include such notifications).
Shareholder Voting rights
 % of total 
 voting rights
(1)
Nature of holding
Blackrock, Inc 13,229,718 5.01 Indirect
Royal London Asset Management Limited 13,138,160 4.98 Direct
(1) Percentages are stated as at the time of notification.
Major Shareholder Voting Arrangements
Following completion of the CCI Transaction, Global City 
Holdings N.V. (formerly CCI) became interested in aggregate in 
24.9% of the rights to vote at general meetings of the Company. 
Subsequently Global City Holdings N.V. has acquired further 
shares to take their interest to 29.0%. The Company and CCI 
entered into a relationship agreement dated 10 January 2014 to 
regulate the relationship between them. Under the relationship 
agreement, the parties acknowledge that the Group is capable 
of carrying on business independently, and that all arrangements 
between the Company and CCI will be on arm’s length terms. 
The relationship agreement also contained a restriction on  
the disposal of ordinary shares in the Company by CCI for  
12 months following completion of the CCI Transaction and 
thereafter a requirement (where reasonably practical) to 
consult with and consider the reasonable views of the 
Chairman or Senior Independent Director of the Company 
prior to a disposal of ordinary shares in the Company.
Share Capital and Control
The Company has only one class of share capital formed of 
ordinary shares. All shares forming part of the ordinary share 
capital have the same rights and each carries one vote. Details 
of the share capital, and changes in it over the period, are 
shown in Note 21 to the financial statements.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive Company 
reports and accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings 
of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
There are no restrictions on transfers of, or limitations on the 
holding of, ordinary shares and there is also no requirement of 
any prior approval of any transfers other than those which may 
be applicable from time to time under existing laws or 
regulation or if a person with an interest in 0.25% of the issued 
share capital held in certificated form has been served with a 
disclosure notice and fails to respond with the required 
information concerning interests in that share capital.
No ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to 
control of the Company. Except as set out in the Major 
Shareholder Voting Arrangements section above, there are no 
restrictions on voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares 
and the Company is not aware of any known agreements 
between shareholders that restrict the transfer of voting rights 
attached to ordinary shares. No treasury shares are held by the 
Company and no shares are held by any trustee in connection 
with any Share Scheme operated by the Group.
The Company’s Articles set out the rules governing the 
appointment and replacement of Directors. In addition the 
Articles, together with English law, define the Board’s powers. 
Changes to the Articles must be approved by shareholders in 
accordance with the Articles themselves and legislation in 
force at the relevant time.
Change of Control
There are no significant agreements which take effect, alter or 
terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company 
except that under its current banking arrangements a change 
of control may trigger a right for lenders to require early 
repayment of all sums outstanding.
No Director or employee is contractually entitled to 
compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of  
a change in control; however, provisions in the Company’s 
share schemes may cause options or awards granted to 
employees to vest on a change of control.
Issue of New Shares and Authority  
to Purchase Shares
At the AGM held on 8 May 2014, shareholders gave authority 
for the allotment of shares up to an aggregate nominal value  
of £1,756,400 subject to certain conditions. This authority will 
expire at the 2015 AGM of the Company or on 7 August 2015, 
whichever is earlier.
Between 27 December 2013 and 1 January 2015, a total of 
113,968,586 shares were issued. 87,278 ordinary shares were 
issued under the Company’s Share Option Plan, 299,305 
ordinary shares were issued under the Company’s Performance 
Share Plan, 15,302 ordinary shares were issued under the 
Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme, 47,965,465 ordinary 
shares were issued pursuant to a rights issue in connection with 
the combination with the cinema operations of Cinema City 
International N.V. and 65,601,236 shares were allotted to Global 
City Holdings N.V. (formerly CCI) as part of the consideration 
for the combination with the cinema business of CCI. Further 
details of the 113,968,586 ordinary shares issued in the period 
in this respect are set out in Note 21 to the financial statements.
At the AGM held on 8 May 2014, shareholders gave authority 
for the purchase of up to 39,492,000 ordinary shares in the 
Company for cancellation or placing into treasury. No shares 
have been acquired under this authority.
The Board proposes to seek shareholder approval at the AGM 
to renew both the Company’s authority to issue new shares 
and its authority to purchase its own ordinary shares for 
cancellation or placing in treasury. Details of the proposed 
resolutions are set out in the Notice of AGM (the “AGM 
circular”) dispatched to shareholders with the Annual  
Report and Accounts (or notification of their availability). 66
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Directors’ Interests
Ordinary shares held directly
Ordinary shares held by companies in  
which a Director has a beneficial interest
Director
1 January  
2015
 Following
 Rights
 Issue
(2)
27 December 
2012
1 January 
2015
 Following
 Rights 
 Issue
(2)
27 December 
2012
Anthony Bloom – – – 2,158,006
(1)
2,158,006
(1)
1,723,224
(1)
Philip Bowcock 13,200 13,200 10,000 – – –
Israel Greidinger 76,626,344
(3)
– – – – –
Mooky Greidinger 76,626,344
(3)
– – – – –
Martina King 2,563 2,563 1,942 – – –
David Maloney 26,400 26,400 20,000 – – –
Scott Rosenblum 10,377 – – – – –
Arni Samuelsson – – – – – –
Rick Senat 26,937 26,937 20,407 – – –
Peter Williams 52,800 52,800 40,000 – – –
(1) Shares are held by a nominee for a Jersey-based discretional trust, of which Anthony Bloom is one of the potential beneficiaries.
(2) Rights Issue announced 10 January 2014 and closed on 19 February 2014 in connection with the combination with the cinema business of CCI. 
(3) Shares are held by Global City Holdings N.V., a connected party of both Mooky and Israel Greidinger.
The Directors who held office at the end of the financial period 
had interests in the ordinary shares of the Company at the 
beginning and end of the year under review as set out above.
On completion of the CCI Transaction on 28 February 2014, 
Stephen Wiener stepped down from the office of Chief 
Executive Officer and as a Director and his employment with 
the Company ended on 31 March 2014. Mooky Greidinger and 
Israel Greidinger were appointed as Executive Directors on 
28 February 2014 and to the offices of Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Operating Officer respectively. On the same date, 
Scott Rosenblum and Arni Samuelsson were appointed as 
additional Non-Executive Directors. On 6 August 2014, it was 
announced that Israel Greidinger’s title had been changed to 
Deputy Chief Executive Officer.
Under the Articles of Association (the “Articles”), one third of 
the Directors must retire by rotation at the AGM and, being 
eligible, offer themselves for re-election each year. In 
accordance with best practice however, all the Directors are 
retiring and, except for David Maloney and Peter Williams, are 
offering themselves for re-election this year at the AGM. In 
addition, as announced on 11 March 2015, Julie Southern will be 
standing for election as a new member of the Board.
Following the Board evaluation process undertaken in 
November 2014, the Board is satisfied that each Director 
standing for re-election continues to show the necessary 
commitment and to be an effective member of the Board due 
to their skills, expertise and business acumen. 
Under the terms of the relationship agreement (described 
further in the Major Shareholder Voting Arrangements section 
above), following completion of the CCI Transaction, Global 
City Holdings N.V. (formerly CCI) has the right to appoint one 
Non-Executive Director (but only if none of Mooky Greidinger, 
Israel Greidinger and Scott Rosenblum are on the Board) for so 
long as it holds at least 10% of the voting rights in the Company.
Details of the interests of the Directors, who held office at the 
end of the financial period, in the issued share capital of the 
Company at the beginning and end of the year under review 
are set out above. Details of the Directors’ remuneration, and 
information on their service contracts, are set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 62.
Details of the interests in the ordinary shares of the Company 
arising under the Group’s Share and Option Schemes are set 
out in the Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 62. No rights  
to subscribe for shares in or debentures of Group companies 
were granted to any of the Directors or their immediate families, 
or exercised by them, during the financial period. None of the 
Directors had any disclosable interest in the shares of Group 
companies and there have been no changes to Directors’ share 
interests between 1 January 2015 and the date of this report.
Conflicts of Interest
The Articles permit the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, to 
authorise situations where a Director has an interest that 
conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the 
Company. There is in place a formal system for the Board to 
consider authorising such conflicts whereby the Directors who 
have no interest in the matter decide whether to authorise the 
conflict. In deciding whether to authorise the conflict, the 
non-conflicted Directors are required to act in the way which 
they consider would be most likely to promote the success of 
the Company for the benefit of all shareholders and they may, 
and do, impose conditions to be attached to such 
authorisations. The Board believes that the arrangements for 
reporting and considering such conflicts operate effectively.
Directors’ Report
Continued 67
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Directors’ Interests in Contracts
The Group has a number of property lease agreements in place 
with Global City Holdings N.V. (and or its subsidiary 
undertakings) of which Mooky and Israel Greidinger are 
Non-Executive Directors. Further details of the amounts paid 
under these agreements can be found in Note 25 to the 
financial statements.
None of the Directors has a material interest in any contract of 
significance to which the Company or a subsidiary was a party 
during the financial year, other than as disclosed above, in their 
service contracts or letters of appointment described on page 
60 and 62 and in Note 25 to the financial statements, Related 
Parties. 
Directors’ and Officers’ Insurance and Indemnity
The Company maintains insurance cover for all Directors and 
Officers of Group companies against liabilities which may be 
incurred by them whilst acting as Directors and Officers. 
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which 
the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors as permitted 
by law and by the Articles against liabilities they may incur in the 
execution of their duties as Directors of the Company. 
Political Donations
The Group’s policy, which it has followed, is to make no 
donations to political parties. 
Employees
The policy is to recruit, employ and develop staff on the basis 
of the suitability of their qualifications and experience, 
regardless of sex, marital status, race, nationality, age, sexual 
orientation or religion. It is Company policy to give full and fair 
consideration to applications for employment from disabled 
people, having regard to their particular abilities and aptitudes. 
Full consideration is given to continuing the employment of 
staff who become disabled, including considering them for 
other reasonable positions and arranging appropriate training.
The health, welfare and development of the Group’s employees 
remain a priority. With the intent of attracting, recruiting, 
developing and retaining key employees, Cineworld maintains 
a number of policies and procedures for the benefit of its 
employees, which can be accessed by employees via the 
Human Resources department and in the UK via the Human 
Resources manual on the Company’s intranet. Continuing 
education, training and development are important to ensure 
the future success of the Group and employee development is 
encouraged through appropriate training. The Group supports 
individuals who wish to obtain appropriate further education 
qualifications and reimburses tuition fees up to a specified level.
Regular and open communication between management and 
employees is essential for motivating the workforce. Briefings 
are held regularly to provide updates on the Group’s business 
and to provide opportunity for questions and feedback. The 
Company also maintains both an internet website which is 
freely accessible and an intranet site accessible to all head 
office employees and at all cinemas in the UK.
The Group encourages the involvement of employees in its 
performance through the operation of a Sharesave Scheme in 
the UK and bonus schemes throughout the Group.
Environmental Matters and Greenhouse  
Gas Emissions
Information on the Group’s environmental policies are 
summarised in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 
30 to 31. This section provides the greenhouse gas (“GHG”) 
emission data and supporting information required by the 
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) 
Regulations 2013.
Organisational Boundary
The organisational boundary used for the Company’s GHG 
reporting is operational control. Emissions from operations of 
Cinema City, which was acquired by Cineworld Group plc at the 
end of February 2014, have been included from this date. 
Reporting Scope
The Company is reporting on emissions covered by scopes 1 
and 2 (comprising electricity, gas, and fugitive F-gas emissions) 
from global operations.
As well as scope 1 and 2 emissions figures, additional “outside 
of scope” emissions are included for owned transport to 
account for biofuel additions. Scope 3 well-to-tank (for all fuels) 
and transmission and distribution (from electricity) emissions 
are also included.
Exclusions 
No mandatory emissions sources as specified by the 
Environmental Reporting Guidelines published by the 
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (“Defra”) 
have been excluded from this report. Table 1 shows Defra’s 
stated mandatory areas for reporting and how the stated 
categories apply to the Group.
Table 1: Reporting Requirements
Reference Defra requirement Relevance
A1 Fuel combustion (stationary) Gas use for heating
A2 Fuel combustion (mobile) Owned transport (fleet)
B Facility operation: process emissions N/A
B Facility operation: fugitive emissions F-gases: refrigeration/air conditioning
C Emissions from the purchase of  
electricity, heat, steam, cooling
Electricity only 68
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
GHG Emissions Data
The GHG emissions for the Group for the calendar year to 31 December 2014 are shown in Table 2 below.
Table 2: 2014 GHG Emissions
Reference Category tCO
2
e 2013 tCO
2
e 2014
(1)
 tCO
2
e 2014
(2)
A1 Fuel combustion (stationary) 14,468 12,339 16,506
A2 Fuel combustion (mobile) 267 178 745
B Facility operation 1,185 949 4,893
C Purchased electricity 44,710 55,140 117,009
Total 60,630 68,606 139,153
(1) Figures excluding operations acquired as part of the CCI Transaction (for comparison purposes).
(2) Figures including operations acquired as part of the CCI Transaction.
Estimates and Exclusions
A minimal amount of estimated data was used for electricity 
and gas emissions for some UK meters for December 2014. 
This affects under 0.1% of total emissions.
Fugitive coolant emissions are excluded from all CCI operations 
apart from those in Poland, as this data was unavailable. These 
are estimated to represent less than 2% of total emissions.
Emissions Intensity
The chosen carbon intensity measure is financial turnover.  
This was chosen due to ready availability of the data. The value 
for the period was 224.7 tonnes CO
2
e per £m turnover  
(139,153 CO
2
e/£619.4m).
For comparison, last year’s emissions were 60,630 tonnes 
CO
2
e at an intensity of 149 tCO
2
e/£m. The increase is largely 
due to the CCI Transaction in February 2014 which significantly 
increased the size of the Group.
Methodology and Emissions Factors
This report was calculated using the methodology set out in 
Defra’s updated greenhouse gas reporting guidance, 
Environmental Reporting Guidelines (ref. PB 13944), issued by 
Defra in June 2013. Emissions factors are taken from DECC/
Defra 2014 update. 
Emissions factors use scope 3 well-to-tank upstream additions 
where appropriate to account for emissions from sourcing and 
processing fuel. Owned transport emissions include outside-
of-scope additions for biogenic additions. Electricity emissions 
include transmission and distribution losses.
Annual General Meeting
The Notice convening the AGM, to be held at The Cineworld 
Cinema, South Side Shopping Centre, Wandsworth High 
Street, London SW18 4TF at 11.00am on 26 May 2015, is 
contained in the AGM circular. Details of all the resolutions to 
be proposed are set out in the AGM circular.
Disclosure of Information to Auditor
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
Auditor is unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps 
that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that 
the Company’s Auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor
KPMG LLP have confirmed that they are willing to continue  
in office and resolutions proposing their reappointment and 
authorising the Audit Committee to agree their fees, will be 
proposed at the AGM.
By order of the Board
R B Ray
Company Secretary
Cineworld Group plc
12 March 2015
Registered Office:
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road
Chiswick, London W4 5PY 
Registered: England No: 5212407
Directors’ Report
Continued 69
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and 
Parent Company financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial 
statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and 
applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent 
Company financial statements in accordance with UK 
Accounting Standards.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent 
Company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing 
each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, 
the Directors are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply  
them consistently; 
• make judgments and estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent; 
• for the Group financial statements, state whether they  
have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted  
by the EU;
• for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the parent company financial statements; and 
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Parent Company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy 
at any time the financial position of the parent company and 
enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance 
Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the Group’s performance, business model and strategy.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the Group and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
• the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
On behalf of the Board
Philip Bowcock
Chief Financial Officer
12 March 2015
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
In Respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements 70
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report 2014
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1. Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified 
We have audited the financial statements of Cineworld Group 
plc (“Cineworld” or “Group”) for the 53 week period ended  
1 January 2015 set out on pages 73 to 124. In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 
of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at  
1 January 2015 and of the Group’s profit for the 53 week 
period then ended; 
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European Union; 
• the Parent Company financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting 
Standards; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and,  
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial 
statements the risks of material misstatement that had the 
greatest effect on our audit were as follows:
Acquisition of Cinema City Holdings B.V. (“Cinema City”) 
(Total consideration £510.6m)
Refer to page 42 (Audit Committee report), page 80 
(accounting policy) and pages 92 and 93 (financial disclosures).
• The risk: the acquisition of Cinema City on 28 February 2014 
was a significant acquisition for Cineworld. The identification 
and valuation of acquired intangible assets is highly 
judgemental as it is sensitive to underlying assumptions 
around future cash flows, especially growth and discount 
rates, contributory asset charges and useful economic lives. 
In addition, valuing and identifying the acquired leases is 
complicated by the geographical spread and diversity of 
Cinema City’s operations. 109 leases were agreed or 
acquired with Cinema City, and these lease agreements 
contain a large number of discrete terms including stepped 
rentals, and varying lengths and break dates. Given the large 
number of leases and variety of lease terms acquired there is 
significant complexity in recognising the acquisition 
adjustment in relation to stepped rental terms in order to 
recognise rental expense going forward on a straight line 
basis over the life of the lease. Further to this, judgement is 
involved in the determination of the fair value of the asset or 
liability arising on the acquisition of any over or under market 
rent leases acquired. 
• Our response: in this area our principal audit procedures 
included, first, assessing the competence of the Group’s 
external valuation expert and their objectivity and capability 
to perform valuations of the acquired intangible assets.  
We then used our own valuation specialists to assist us in 
evaluating whether all intangible assets had been identified, 
and the appropriateness of the models and assumptions 
used in determining the asset valuations. Our evaluation of 
the key assumptions included comparison to Cinema City 
historical trend data, external market data and applying 
standard industry valuation practice. 
With respect to the adjustment in respect of stepped rental 
terms we compiled a central database of cinema leases 
acquired from the signed lease agreements, using the 
underlying information within these leases to create our own 
expectation of the related adjustment and compared this to 
that recorded by the Group. The accuracy and completeness  
of this database was considered with reference to the sale 
and purchase agreement. 
To identify leases at non-market rental rates, we first 
considered the competence, objectivity and capabilities  
of the Group’s external property expert. We assessed and 
challenged the expert’s report on market rental rates by 
comparing rental costs as a percentage of site profit to the 
Cinema City asset portfolio and analysing country trends. 
We also considered the adequacy of the Group’s  
disclosure regarding the acquisition and the underlying 
assumptions applied.
Onerous lease provisions (£8.3m)
Refer to page 42 (Audit Committee report), page 84 
(accounting policy) and page 110 (financial disclosures).
• The risk: the Group provides for onerous lease costs, on 
acquisition of a cinema as part of a business, when it 
considers that the unavoidable costs of the lease obligations 
from operating the cinema are in excess of the economic 
benefits expected to be received from operating it, but 
where it continues to be rational to operate the cinema as  
the cinema contributes towards the unavoidable lease costs. 
The provision is calculated and updated annually, using a 
valuation model that requires consideration of existing 
market conditions and estimates of future operating cash 
flows from each cinema to calculate the level of onerous 
lease. The value of the provision is sensitive to the underlying 
assumptions around future cash flows and discount rates, 
due to the fact that the Group has no direct control over the 
films released for distribution, limited visibility over the 
release schedule more than 12 months into the future and the 
variety in performance of the films across the diverse 
footprint of the Group. The risk is increased in the current 
year by the potential existence of onerous leases in the 
acquired Cinema City Group. 
• Our response: our principal audit procedures included: for 
Cinema City leases acquired in the year, obtaining and 
challenging the Cinema City Group’s cash flow forecast by 
cinema against historical performance trends by cinema, and 
comparing the onerous lease cinemas identified by the 
Group against these cash flow forecasts and Cineworld’s 
onerous lease accounting policy.
For all Cinema City, Cineworld and Picturehouse cinemas for 
which a provision has been made we compared the Group’s 
forecast cash flows to historical cash flow trends; considered 
the appropriateness and accuracy of the valuation model, 
including assessing key input data, such as growth rates and 
discount rates, against our internal benchmark data; and 
applied sensitivities to the underlying assumptions. We also 
considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosure over the 
degree of estimation involved in arriving at the provision. 
Recognition of Virtual Print Fee (“VPF”) income (£12.5m) 
Refer to page 42 (Audit Committee report), page 84 
(accounting policy) and page 99 (financial disclosures).
• The risk: VPF income is recognised on an accruals basis 
dependent on the number and type of screenings using 
digital display equipment. The terms of the UK VPF contract 
are complex as they include the number, type, timing and 
Independent Auditor’s Report
to the Members of Cineworld Group plc only 71
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
overlap of screenings. In addition, the large volume of 
screening data has historically led to differences between 
the third party supplier and the Group’s estimate due to 
processing delays and the inherent limitations of the Group’s 
information systems, which cannot fully reflect the 
complexity of the underlying VPF agreements. Further, there 
is the potential for penalties to be applied on certain 
screenings that are prohibited under the VPF agreement. 
Additionally, there is then a six-month delay between the 
income being recognised, the balances being fully reconciled 
with the third party supplier and the receivable being paid. 
As part of the acquisition of Cinema City seven VPF contracts 
with seven distributors were acquired across seven countries. 
Although each contract is unique, the terms of these contracts 
are simpler than those of the existing UK contracts. However, 
given the continued complexity of accounting in the UK, the 
interval between balances being reconciled to third party 
information and income received and the number of additional 
VPF contracts acquired, VPF income is deemed to be one of 
the Group’s key judgement areas. 
• Our response: our principal audit procedures in this area 
included: testing the Group’s controls over the VPF income 
recognition and collection process, including assessing, in 
comparison to information received the third party supplier, 
the accuracy and detail of the Group’s screening information 
and the appropriateness of any assumptions applied by the 
Group to this information; testing the receipt of fee income 
after the period end; and considering the appropriateness of 
the level of VPF income recognised by reference to the terms 
of the VPF agreement and underlying screening data. 
For the VPF contracts acquired in the year, we obtained and 
read all of the agreements to identify the principal terms and 
existence of penalty clauses and considered this in conjunction 
with the accrued income recognised. For all VPF contracts, 
we performed a recalculation of the expected income and 
any anticipated penalty exposure. We also considered the 
adequacy of the Group’s disclosures about the degree of 
estimation involved in arriving at the income recognised. 
Carrying value of Property, Plant and Equipment (£297.6m) 
Refer to page 42 (Audit Committee report), page 84 
(accounting policy) and pages 94 and 95 (financial disclosures).
• The risk: There is a risk that at an individual cinema level the 
property, plant and equipment balances may prove to be 
irrecoverable due to local factors, such as increased 
competition, materially affecting site performance. The 
difficulties involved in predicting the performance of sites 
operated by the Group increase this risk, and are illustrated 
by the fact that in the prior year an impairment charge of 
£1.3m was recognised and in the current year both an 
impairment charge of £0.3m and an impairment reversal of 
£1.3m have occurred. As explained above, there is inherent 
uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future 
cash flows. Given this inherent uncertainty and the number 
of sites across the Group. This is therefore deemed to be one 
of the Group’s key judgement areas. 
• Our response: in this area our principal procedures included: 
analysis of the Group’s historical ability to forecast cash 
generation, and challenging the reasonableness of current 
forecasts given the future plans of the business and the risk 
perceived in those strategies from our understanding of the 
business’s past performance. We performed an assessment 
of sensitivity analysis of both discount rates and forecast 
cash flows and the resulting headroom on the value-in-use 
estimates across all valuations and considered the 
appropriateness of the resulting disclosures in light  
of this sensitivity. 
Scoping and Coverage
Group Revenue (%)
Group audited 54%
Component audited 33%
Out of scope 13%
Group Proﬁt Before Taxation (%)
Group audited 69%
Component audited 24%
Out of scope 7%
Group Total Assets (%)
Group audited 70%
Component audited 23%
Out of scope 7%
3. Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope 
of our audit
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole 
was set at £2.7m (2013: £2.3m), determined with reference to a 
benchmark of Group profit before taxation, of which it 
represents 4.0% (2013: 7.4%). The lower percentage in 2014 
reflects the increased risk profile of the audit following the 
acquisition of Cinema City; we will continue to re-assess 
materiality on an ongoing basis considering the changing risk 
profile of the Group.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected and 
uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding £135,000, in 
addition to other identified misstatements that warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group operates as Cineworld and Picturehouse in the UK 
and Cinema City in seven countries across the UK, Central and 
Eastern Europe and Israel, each of which is considered to be a 
reporting component. We performed audits for Group 
reporting purposes on five of these components, resulting in 
coverage of 87% of total Group revenue; 93% of Group profit 
before taxation; and 93% of Group total assets. For the 
remaining components, we performed analytical procedures at 
a Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no 
significant risks of material misstatement within these. 72
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
The work was performed by component auditors at four 
components in Poland, Israel, Hungary and Romania, and by 
the Group audit team for Cineworld, United Kingdom. 
The Group team instructed the component auditors as to the 
significant areas to be covered (which included the relevant 
risks detailed above) and set out the information required to be 
reported back to the Group audit team. The Group audit team 
approved the component materiality, which was set at £1.8m 
for all components, having regard to the mix of size and risk 
profile of the businesses within the Group. 
The Group audit team visited two component locations in 
Poland and Israel to assess the audit risk and strategy and gain 
an understanding of the local finance environment. During the 
audit telephone conference meetings were also held with the 
auditors of these components and the two other components 
that were not visited. At these meetings, the findings and 
observations reported to the Group audit team were discussed 
in more detail, and any further work deemed necessary by the 
Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the  
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements.
5. We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which 
we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, 
based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 
identified other information in the Annual Report that contains 
a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the 
financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that  
is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
• we have identified material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors’ 
statement that they consider that the Annual Report and 
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy; or
• the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address 
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or 
• the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the Directors’ statement, set out on page 64, in relation to 
going concern; and 
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 
35 to 44 relating to the Company’s compliance with the ten 
provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code 
specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 69, the Directors are responsible  
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. A description  
of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided  
on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at  
www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is  
made solely to the company’s members as a body and  
is subject to important explanations and disclaimers 
regarding our responsibilities, published on our website  
at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, which are 
incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should 
be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of  
this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis  
of our opinions.
Mark Summerfield 
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square
London E14 5GL
12 March 2015
Independent Auditor’s Report
Continued 73
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss
for the Period Ended 1 January 2015
Note
53 week 
period 
ended 
1 January 
2015
£m
52 week 
period 
ended 
26 December
2013
£m
Revenue 2 619.4 406.1
Cost of sales (438.9) (293.3)
Gross profit 180.5 112.8
Other operating income 3 2.0 0.5
Administrative expenses (106.5) (75.8)
Operating profit 4 76.0 37.5
Analysed between:
Operating profit before depreciation, impairments, reversals of impairments and amortisation, 
onerous lease and other non-recurring or non-cash property charges, transaction and 
reorganisation costs 126.6 72.3
•  Depreciation and amortisation 4 (46.6) (24.0)
•  Onerous leases and other non-recurring charges 4 1.9 (0.7)
•  Impairments and reversals of impairments 4 1.0 (2.0)
•  Transaction and reorganisation costs 4 (6.9) (8.1)
Finance income 7 6.6 0.3
Finance expenses 7 (15.2) (6.8)
Net finance costs (8.6) (6.5)
Share of loss of jointly controlled entities using equity accounting method, net of tax (0.1) (0.1)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 67.3 30.9
Tax charge on profit on ordinary activities 8 (12.8) (9.9)
Profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company 54.5 21.0
Basic earnings per share 5 22.1 14.0
Diluted earnings per share 5 21.9 13.8
The Notes on pages 78 to 124 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 74
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income
for the Period Ended 1 January 2015
53 week 
period 
ended 
1 January 
2015
£m
52 week 
period 
ended 
26 December 
2013
£m
Profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company 54.5 21.0
Items that will not subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurement of the defined benefit asset 1.6 (0.7)
Tax recognised on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (0.4) (0.1)
Items that will subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedge 0.8 (1.6)
Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges recycled to profit or loss 1.9 –
Foreign exchange translation loss (34.1) (0.4)
Tax recognised on income and expenses to be reclassified to profit or loss 0.1 0.3
Other comprehensive loss for the period, net of income tax (30.1) (2.5)
T otal comprehensive income for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company 24.4 18.5 75
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
at 1 January 2015
1 January 2015 26 December 2013
Note £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 10 297.6 162.1
Goodwill 11 552.8 236.2
Intangible assets 11 59.8 13.8
Investments in equity-accounted investee 12 0.5 0.6
Other receivables 15 6.0 1.4
Employee benefits 19 8.6 5.3
Deferred tax assets 13 13.5 8.1
Total non-current assets 938.8 427.5
Current assets
Inventories 14 7.7 3.5
Trade and other receivables 15 61.3 34.6
Assets classified as held for sale 16 1.5 2.3
Cash and cash equivalents 37.4 19.0
Total current assets 107.9 59.4
Total assets 1,046.7 486.9
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans, borrowings and other financial liabilities 17 (24.8) (6.3)
Trade and other payables 18 (110.7) (82.7)
Current taxes payable (8.5) (3.9)
Bank overdraft (2.1) –
Liabilities classified as held for sale 16 – (0.1)
Provisions 20 (6.6) (1.1)
Total current liabilities (152.7) (94.1)
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans, borrowings and other financial liabilities 17 (292.4) (125.0)
Other payables 18 (57.1) (54.8)
Government grants (1.8) (1.8)
Provisions 20 (21.2) (10.4)
Employee benefits 19 (1.0) –
Deferred tax liabilities 13 (14.2) (6.9)
Total non-current liabilities (387.7) (198.9)
Total liabilities (540.4) (293.0)
Net assets 506.3 193.9
Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company
Share capital 21 2.6 1.5
Share premium 294.9 188.2
Translation reserves 21 (32.4) 1.7
Merger reserve 207.3 –
Hedging reserves 21 (0.8) (1.9)
Retained earnings 34.7 4.4
T otal equity 506.3 193.9
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 12 March 2015 and were signed on its behalf by:
Mooky Greidinger  Philip Bowcock
Director    Director 76
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the Period Ended 1 January 2015
Issued 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Translation 
reserve 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Total 
£m
Balance at 27 December 2012 1.5 188.1 – 1.3 (3.5) 1.2 188.6
Profit for the period – – – – – 21.0 21.0
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not subsequently be reclassified to 
profit or loss
Remeasurement of the defined benefit asset – – – – – (0.7) (0.7)
Tax recognised on items that will not be reclassified 
to profit or loss – – – – – 0.1 0.1
Items that will subsequently be reclassified to profit 
or loss
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedge – – – – 1.6 – 1.6
Retranslation of foreign currency denominated 
subsidiaries – – – 0.4 – – 0.4
Tax recognised on income and expenses recognised 
directly in equity – – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Contributions by and distributions to owners
Dividends – – – – – (18.1) (18.1)
Movements due to share-based compensation – – – – – 1.2 1.2
Issue of shares – 0.1 – – – – 0.1
Balance at 26 December 2013 1.5 188.2 – 1.7 (1.9) 4.4 193.9
Profit for the period – – – – – 54.5 54.5
Amounts reclassified from equity to profit and loss in 
respect of cash flow hedges – – – – 1.9 – 1.9
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not subsequently be reclassified to 
profit or loss
Remeasurement of the defined benefit asset – – – – – 1.6 1.6
Tax recognised on items that will not be reclassified 
to profit or loss – – – – – (0.4) (0.4)
Items that will subsequently be reclassified to profit 
or loss
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedge – – – – (0.8) – (0.8)
Retranslation of foreign currency denominated 
subsidiaries – – – (34.1) – – (34.1)
Tax recognised on income and expenses recognised 
directly in equity – – – – – 0.1 0.1
Contributions by and distributions to owners
Dividends – – – – – (26.9) (26.9)
Movements due to share-based compensation – – – – – 1.4 1.4
Issue of shares 1.1 106.7 207.3 – – – 315.1
Balance at 1 January 2015 2.6 294.9 207.3 (32.4) (0.8) 34.7 506.3 77
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
for the Period Ended 1 January 2015
Note
53 week 
period 
ended
 1 January 
2015 
£m
52 week 
period
ended
26 December
2013 
£m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit for the period 54.5 21.0
Adjustments for:
 Financial income 7 (6.6) (0.3)
 Financial expense 7 13.3 6.8
 Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges reclassified from equity 7 1.9 –
 Taxation 8 12.8 9.9
 Share of loss of equity-accounted investee 0.1 0.1
Operating profit 76.0 37.5
Depreciation and amortisation 4 46.6 24.0
Non-cash property charges (2.5) –
Impairments and reversals of impairments 4 (1.0) 2.0
Surplus of pension contributions over current service cost 19 (1.6) (1.6)
Increase in trade and other receivables (3.4) (0.1)
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (0.8) 0.3
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (7.0) 2.3
(Decrease)/increase in provisions and employee benefit obligations (8.1) 0.9
Cash generated from operations 98.2 65.3
Tax paid (12.1) (9.7)
Net cash flows from operating activities 86.1 55.6
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 0.2 0.1
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of acquired cash 9 (278.5) –
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 10 (48.1) (18.9)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.7 –
Net cash flows from investing activities (325.7) (18.8)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from share issue 9 107.4 –
Dividends paid to shareholders (26.9) (18.1)
Interest paid (10.4) (5.2)
Repayment of bank loans (202.2) (29.5)
Proceeds from bank loans 392.9 25.0
Payment of finance lease liabilities (0.7) (0.9)
Net cash from financing activities 260.1 (28.7)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 20.5 8.1
Exchange gains/(losses) on cash and cash equivalents (2.1) –
Cash and cash equivalents at start of period 19.0 10.9
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 37.4 19.0 78
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
(Forming Part of the Financial Statements)
1. Accounting Policies
Basis of Preparation
Cineworld Group plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated in the UK.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”) and 
equity account the Group’s interest in jointly controlled entities. The Parent Company financial statements present information 
about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (“Adopted IFRSs”). The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial 
statements in accordance with UK GAAP; these are presented on pages 118 to 124.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements.
Judgements made by the Directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial 
statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next financial period are set out below.
Information regarding the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position is set out in the Chief Executive Officer’s Review on pages 18 to 25 and the Risks and Uncertainties 
section on pages 26 to 29. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described in the Chief Executive Officer’s Review on pages 18 to 25. In addition Note 21 to the financial statements includes the 
Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Going Concern
At the period end the Group met its day-to-day working capital requirements through its bank loan, which consisted of a term 
loan and a revolving facility (see Note 17 to the financial statements).
As part of the combination with CCI, Cineworld Group plc restructured its debt financing, an element of which was drawn to part 
settle the cash consideration of £272m. The residual of the facility has been drawn to refinance the existing facilities of the 
combined Group and to fund general working capital requirements going forward. The new facility provides funding of £400m of 
which £275m is term loan and £125m is a revolving credit facility. £160m (€192m) of the new facility is available in Euros, reflecting 
the composition of the combined Group. This new financing arrangement became effective on 10 January 2014, but the new 
facility was not drawn and the existing facility was not repaid until 27 February 2014. At the Year End the Group had utilised 
£275m of the term and £44m of the revolving credit facility.
The current bank facility is subject to two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) 
to net finance charges. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading 
performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facility, including compliance with the 
bank facility covenants. The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis.
Measurement Convention
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their 
fair value: derivative financial instruments and financial instruments classified as fair value through the income statement or as 
available for sale.
The financial information of subsidiaries is included in the consolidated financial information from the date that control 
commences until the date that control ceases.
Basis of Consolidation
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable 
returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. The 
financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control 
commences until the date on which control ceases.
Jointly Controlled Entities (Equity Accounted Investees)
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual 
agreement and requiring the venturers’ unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions. Jointly controlled 
entities are accounted for using the equity method (equity accounted investees) and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s 
investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses. The consolidated financial 
statements include the Group’s share of the total recognised income and expense and equity movements of equity accounted 
investees, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases. When the Group’s share of losses 
exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the Group’s carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further 
losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on 
behalf of an investee. 79
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
1. Accounting Policies continued
Transactions Eliminated on Consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are 
eliminated. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to 
the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only 
to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Use of non-GAAP Profit and Loss Measures
The Group believes that along with operating profit, the following measures:
• Adjusted EBITDA.
• Adjusted pro-forma earnings.
• Net debt.
Provide additional guidance to the statutory measures of the performance of the business during the financial period.
Adjusted EBITDA comprises of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, onerous lease and other non-recurring 
or non-cash property charges, transaction and reorganisation costs, defined benefit scheme indexation gain and refinancing costs.
Adjusted pro-forma earnings comprises profit after tax adjusted for certain non-recurring, non-cash items and foreign exchange  
as set out in Note 5. Adjusted pro-forma earnings is an internal measure used by management, as they believe it better reflects 
the underlying performance of the Group. A statutory tax rate is used, as tax is considered to be an external factor affecting 
earnings, which management are unable to influence.
Net debt represents net borrowings and derivatives.
Foreign Currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling 
at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets 
and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date 
of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are 
translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are 
translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are 
translated at an average rate for the period where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of 
the transactions.
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations after 23 August 2004 (the date of incorporation) are 
taken directly to the translation reserve. They are released into the income statement upon disposal.
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging
Cash Flow Hedges and Interest Swap Policy
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised 
immediately in the income statement except where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting when recognition of any resultant 
gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the 
balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties. The 
fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the 
quoted forward price.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or 
a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised 
directly in the hedging reserve. Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the statement of 
comprehensive income.
For cash flow hedges, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in 
the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship 
but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is 
recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to 
take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the statement of other comprehensive 
income immediately. 80
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
1. Accounting Policies continued
Non-Derivative Financial Instruments
Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, 
interest bearing borrowings, and trade and other payables.
Trade and Other Receivables
Trade and other receivables were initially measured on the basis of their fair value. Subsequently they are carried at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses. A bad debt allowance for receivables is established when 
there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of 
the receivables.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an 
integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of 
the statement of cash flows.
Trade and Other Payables
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method.
Interest-Bearing Borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value 
being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of 
property, plant and equipment.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as 
finance leases. Where land and buildings are held under finance leases the accounting treatment of the land is considered 
separately from that of the buildings. Leased assets acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower 
of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment losses.
All other leases are operating leases. These leased assets are not recognised in the Group’s balance sheet.
Depreciation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income to write assets down to their residual values on a straight-line 
basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment. The estimated useful lives are 
as follows:
• Land and buildings: freehold properties 50 years
• Land and buildings: short leasehold properties including leasehold improvements 30 years or life of lease if shorter
• Plant and machinery  3 to 16 years
• Fixtures and fittings  3 to 16 years
• Motor vehicles  3 to 6 years
No depreciation is provided on assets held for sale or on assets in the course of construction.
Depreciation methods, residual values and the useful lives of all assets are reassessed annually.
In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets, the Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the 
acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets as part of the cost of that asset. The Group has capitalised borrowing 
costs with respect to the construction of new sites.
Business Combinations
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill as the fair value of the consideration transferred 
(including the fair value of any previously-held equity interest in the acquire) and the recognised amount of any non-controlling 
interests in the acquiree, less the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed, all measured as of the acquisition date. When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately 
in the Income Statement. Transactions costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities that the Group 
incurs in connection with business combinations are expensed as incurred.  81
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
1. Accounting Policies continued
Intangible Assets and Goodwill
Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights 
are separable.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not 
amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights 
are separable.
Distribution rights that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless 
such lives are indefinite. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at 
each balance sheet date. Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. Distribution rights are 
amortised by film title from the date of release of the film, at 50% in the first year of release and 25% in each of the two subsequent 
years. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
• Brands  10 to 20 years
• Distribution rights 3 years
• Other intangibles 5 to 10 years
Non-current Assets Held for Sale
A non-current asset or a group of assets containing a non-current asset (a disposal group) is classified as held for sale if its 
carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use, it is available for immediate sale 
and sale is highly probable within one year.
On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and disposal groups are measured at the lower of previous carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell with any adjustments taken to profit or loss. The same applies to gains and losses on 
subsequent remeasurement although gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss. Any impairment loss 
on a disposal group first is allocated to goodwill, and then to remaining assets and liabilities on pro rata basis, except that no loss 
is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets, employee benefit assets and investment property, which continue 
to be measured in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment once 
classified as held for sale or distribution are not amortised or depreciated.
In accordance with IFRS 5, the above policy is effective from 28 December 2012; no reclassifications are made in prior periods.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories is based on the First-In, First-Out 
(“FIFO”) principle. Cost comprises expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location 
and condition, and net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated 
selling costs.
Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets other than inventories and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet 
date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is 
estimated. For goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite useful economic life, the recoverable amount is estimated at 
each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable 
amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any 
goodwill allocated to cash-generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro rata 
basis. A cash generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent 
of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Calculation of Recoverable Amount
The recoverable amount is the greater of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the 
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely 
independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 82
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
1. Accounting Policies continued
Reversals of Impairment
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment is reversed when there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist as  
a result of a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount, including a change in fair value less costs to sell.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that 
would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Employee Benefits
Defined Contribution Pension Plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement 
as incurred.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of 
future benefit that employees have earned in the current and prior periods, discounting that amount and deducting the fair value 
of any plan assets.
The calculation of defined benefit obligations is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. 
When the calculation results in a potential asset for the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the present value of economic 
benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. To calculate the 
present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any applicable minimum funding requirements.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets 
(excluding interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest), are recognised immediately in the Statement of 
Other Comprehensive Income (“OCI”) The Group determines the net interest expense (income) on the net defined benefit liability 
(asset) for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual 
period to the then-net defined benefit liability (asset), taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability (asset) 
during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments. Net interest expense and other expenses related to defined 
benefit plans are recognised in profit or loss.
When the benefits of a plan are changed or when a plan is curtailed, the resulting change in benefit that relates to past service  
or the gain or loss on curtailment is recognised immediately in profit or loss. The Group recognises gains and losses on the 
settlement of a defined benefit plan when the settlement occurs.
Share-Based Payment Transactions
The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of options granted is 
recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date using the 
Black-Scholes model and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. 
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture 
is due only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Share appreciation rights are also granted by the Company to employees. The fair value of the amount payable to the employee 
is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities. The fair value is initially measured at grant date and 
spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment. The fair value of the share 
appreciation rights is measured taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. The 
liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date and any changes in fair value are recognised in the 
income statement.
Government Grants
Government grants are recognised initially as deferred income at fair value when there is reasonable assurance that they will be 
received and the Group will comply with the conditions associated with the grant. They are then recognised in profit or loss as 
other income on a systematic basis over the useful life of the asset to which they relate.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, 
provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Own Shares Held by Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”)
Transactions of the Group sponsored EBT are included in the Group financial information. In particular, the trust’s purchase  
of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity. 83
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
1. Accounting Policies continued
Revenue
Revenue represents the total amount receivable for goods sold, excluding sales related taxes and intra-Group transactions. 
All the Group’s revenue is received from the sale of goods.
• Box office revenue is recognised on the date of the showing of the film it relates to.
• Concessions revenue is recognised at point of sale.
• Advertising revenue is recognised over the period the advert is shown in cinemas.
• Unlimited card revenue is received annually or monthly in advance. When revenue from the Unlimited card is received annually 
in advance it is recognised on a straight-line basis over the year. Monthly Unlimited card revenue is recognised in the period to 
which it relates.
• Other revenue is recognised in the period to which it relates.
Other Income
Other income represents rent receivable. Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Expenses
Operating Lease Payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over 
the term of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease 
expense. Where the Group has operating leases that contain minimum guaranteed rental uplifts over the life of the lease, the 
Group recognises the guaranteed minimum lease payment on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Finance Lease Payments
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance 
charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining 
balance of the liability.
Net Financing Costs
Net financing costs comprise interest payable, amortisation of financing costs, unwind of discount on onerous lease provisions, 
finance lease interest, net gain/loss on remeasurement of interest rate swaps, interest receivable on funds invested, foreign 
exchange gains and losses and finance costs for defined benefit pension schemes.
Sale and Leaseback
Where the Group enters into a sale and leaseback transaction whereby the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets 
concerned have not been substantially transferred to the lessor, any excess of sales proceeds over the previous carrying amount 
are deferred and recognised in the income statement over the lease term. At the date of the transaction the assets and the 
associated finance lease liabilities on the Group’s balance sheet are stated at the lower of fair value of the leased assets and the 
present value of the minimum lease payments.
Where the Group enters into a sale and leaseback transaction whereby the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets 
concerned have been substantially transferred to the lessor, any excess of sales proceeds over the previous carrying amount is 
recognised in the income statement on completion of the transaction, when the sale and subsequent lease back has been 
completed at fair value.
Taxation
Tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted  
at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method, providing temporary differences between the carrying amounts  
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary 
differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill; the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither 
accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the 
extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the 
expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the asset can be utilised. 84
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
1. Accounting Policies continued
Operating Segments
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur 
expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. An operating 
segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly by the Board of Directors to make decisions about resources to be allocated 
to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
Significant Accounting Judgements and Estimates
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the 
application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates.
Estimates
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in  
the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
In applying the Group’s accounting policies described above the Directors have identified that the following areas are the key 
estimates that have a significant impact on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Onerous Leases
Provision is made for onerous leases on acquisition of a cinema as part of a business, where it is considered that the unavoidable 
costs of the lease obligations are in excess of the economic benefits expected to be received from operating it. The unavoidable 
costs of the lease reflect the least net cost of exiting from the contract and are measured as the lower of the net cost of 
continuing to operating the lease and any penalties or other costs from exiting it.
When calculating the provision for an onerous lease the Group is required to make certain assumptions about the future cash 
flows to be generated from that cinema site. It is also required to discount these cash flows using an appropriate discount rate. 
The resulting provision is therefore very sensitive to these assumptions however, the Directors consider that the assumptions 
made represent their best estimate of the future cash flows generated by onerous cinema sites, and that the discount rate used  
is appropriate given the risks associated with these cash flows. Management has applied sensitivity analysis to the estimate 
(see Note 20).
Virtual Print Fees
A Virtual Print Fee (“VPF”) represents a discount from the cost Cineworld pays for film rental and reflects the cost saving to the 
studios of the move to digital. A VPF is receivable the first time a film is played in a digital format on a screen rather than using 
35mm film.
A VPF is recognised on the date of the showing of the film it relates to and is included in cost of sales as a reduction of the film 
hire costs. VPFs are expected to be received until between 2015 and 2016, dependent upon the rate of screenings of films on 
which VPF income is earned.
The income recognition criteria are complex as they include the number, type and timing of screenings and the recognition  
of the income on an accruals basis does not necessarily match the cash received.
Impairment of Goodwill
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis. This requires an estimate of the value in use of 
the cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate 
of the expected future cash flows from the cash generating unit that holds the goodwill at a determined discount rate to calculate 
the present value of those cash flows.
Forecasting expected cash flows, and selecting an appropriate discount rate inherently requires estimation, however 
management has also applied sensitivity analysis to the estimates which does not affect the outcome (see Note 11).
Impairment of Tangible Fixed Assets
The Group determines whether tangible fixed assets are impaired when indicators of impairments exist. This requires an estimate 
of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the tangible fixed assets are allocated. Estimating the value in use 
requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash generating units that holds the tangible 
fixed assets at a determined discount rate to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
When reviewing fixed assets for impairment, the Group is required to make certain assumptions about the future cash flows to 
be generated from the individual cinema sites. It is also required to discount these cash flows using an appropriate discount rate. 
The resulting calculation is therefore very sensitive to these assumptions. However, the Directors consider that the assumptions 
made represent their best estimate of the future cash flows generated by the cinema sites, and that the discount rate used is 
appropriate given the risks associated with these cash flows. Management has applied sensitivity analysis to the estimates 
(see Note 10). 85
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
1. Accounting Policies continued
Employee Post Retirement Benefit Obligations
The Group has two defined benefit pension plans. The obligations under these plans are recognised in the balance sheet  
and represent the present value of the obligations calculated by independent actuaries, with input from management. These 
actuarial valuations include assumptions such as discount rates, return on assets, salary progression and mortality rates. These 
assumptions vary from time to time according to prevailing economic and social conditions. Details of the assumptions used  
are provided in Note 19.
Management consider that the assumptions used are the most appropriate but recognise that the resulting pension liability  
is very sensitive to these assumptions.
Deferred Tax Assets
The Group recognises deferred tax assets for temporary differences arising at the balance sheet date. The Group applies 
estimates when calculating the carrying value of these assets and considering whether future taxable profits are sufficient  
to ensure their recoverability.
Judgements
In addition, the Directors are required to make certain judgements when applying the Group’s accounting policies described 
above. The key judgements are:
Finance and Operating Leases
When the Group enters into a new lease it is required to consider whether it bears substantially all the risks and rewards of the 
asset. The Group considers the requirements of IAS 17 “Leases” when determining whether it has an operating or finance lease, 
and in most cases the outcome is clear.
Hedging Arrangements
The Group enters into interest rate swaps to fix a portion of its exposure to variable interest rates on its loan arrangements.  
In order to apply the hedge accounting provisions of IAS 39 “Financial Instruments”, the Group must consider the effectiveness  
of its hedging arrangements when deciding whether it can hedge account.
Other Area of Significant Judgement
During 2014, management also consider that the following require significant judgement:
• The valuation on acquisition of the Cinema City intangible assets (see Notes 9 and 11).
New Standards and Interpretations
The Directors considered the impact of other new and revised accounting standards, interpretations or amendments on the 
Group that are currently endorsed but not yet effective. The Directors anticipate that all of the relevant pronouncements will  
be adopted in the Group’s accounting policies for the first period beginning after the effective date of the pronouncement. 
Information on new standards, amendments and interpretations that are expected to impact the Group’s financial statements  
is provided below. Certain other new standards and interpretations have been issued but are not expected to have a material 
impact on the Group’s financial statements.
Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions – Amendments to IAS 19
The amendments introduce a relief that will reduce the complexity and burden of accounting for certain contributions from 
employees or third parties. Such contributions are eligible for the practical expedient if they are:
• set out in the formal terms of the plan;
• linked to service; and
• independent of the number of years of service.
When contributions are eligible for the practical expedient, a company is permitted (but not required) to recognise them as  
a reduction of the service cost in the period in which the related service is rendered. 86
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
2. Operating Segments
Determination and presentation of operating segments:
The combination with Cinema City Holdings B.V. has led to the Group Board (the “CODM”) realigning its management information. 
This change has given rise to the inclusion of an additional operating segment, Central and Eastern Europe and Israel (“CEE & 
Israel” or “Cinema City”). The combination has not affected the information provided to the Board in respect of Cineworld Cinemas 
or Picturehouse and they continue to be presented on a consistent basis to the prior period. Management have added a UK & 
Ireland aggregation as it provides the reader with improved understanding of the geographical performance of the Group.
The Group has determined that is has three operating segments: Cineworld Cinemas, Picturehouse and Cinema City.
Cineworld 
Cinemas 
£m
Picturehouse 
£m
Total
UK & Ireland 
£m
Cinema City 
(CEE & Israel)
£m
Total
£m
53 weeks to 1 January 2015
Total revenues
(1)
385.6 39.7 425.3 194.1 619.4
EBITDA 74.1 4.7 78.8 47.8 126.6
Segmental operating profit 47.1 0.3 47.4 28.6 76.0
Net finance costs (7.6) – (7.6) (1.0) (8.6)
Depreciation and amortisation 21.6 3.4 25.0 21.6 46.6
Share of loss of jointly controlled entities using equity method, net of tax (0.1) – (0.1) – (0.1)
Profit before tax 39.4 0.3 39.7 27.6 67.3
Non-current asset additions – property, plant and equipment 24.0 5.5 29.5 155.4 184.9
Non-current asset additions – goodwill – – – 336.3 336.3
Non-current asset additions – intangible assets – – – 57.1 57.1
Investment in equity accounted investee 0.5 – 0.5 – 0.5
Non-current asset – goodwill 217.1 19.1 236.2 316.6 552.8
Onerous leases and other non-recurring charges (2.2) 0.7 (1.5) (0.4) (1.9)
Impairments and reversals of impairments (1.0) – (1.0) – (1.0)
Transaction and reorganisation costs 6.9 – 6.9 – 6.9
Segmental total assets 427.0 62.7 489.7 557.0 1,046.7
52 weeks to 26 December 2013
Total revenues
(1)
369.5 36.6 406.1 – 406.1
EBITDA 66.9 5.4 72.3 – 72.3
Segmental operating profit 35.7 1.8 37.5 – 37.5
Net finance costs (6.3) (0.2) (6.5) – (6.5)
Depreciation and amortisation 22.4 1.6 24.0 – 24.0
Share of loss of jointly controlled entities using equity method, net of tax (0.1) – (0.1) – (0.1)
Profit before tax 29.3 1.6 30.9 – 30.9
Non-current asset additions – property, plant and equipment 24.8 3.0 27.8 – 27.8
Non-current asset additions – goodwill – – – – –
Non-current asset additions – intangible assets – – – – –
Investment in equity accounted investee 0.6 – 0.6 – 0.6
Non-current asset – goodwill 217.1 19.1 236.2 – 236.2
Onerous leases and other non-recurring charges 0.7 – 0.7 – 0.7
Impairments and reversals of impairments 2.0 – 2.0 – 2.0
Transaction and reorganisation costs 8.1 – 8.1 – 8.1
Segmental total assets 419.5 67.4 486.9 – 486.9
(1) All revenues were received from third parties. 87
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
2. Operating Segments continued
Entity Wide Disclosures
Revenue by country
53 week 
period ended
1 January 
2015 
Total 
£m
52 week 
period ended
26 December 
2013 
Total 
£m
United Kingdom 425.5 406.1
Israel 36.4 –
Poland 70.8 –
Bulgaria 9.1 –
Romania 23.1 –
Hungary 30.6 –
Slovakia 6.2 –
Czech Republic 17.7 –
Total revenue 619.4 406.1
Cineworld Cinemas
Revenue by product and service provided
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015 
Total 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
26 December 
2013 
Total 
£m
Box office 269.3 261.5
Retail 89.3 84.6
Other 27.0 23.4
Total revenue 385.6 369.5
Picturehouse
Revenue by product and service provided
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015
Total
£m
52 week 
period ended 
26 December 
2013 
Total 
£m
Box office 19.4 18.4
Retail 9.9 9.5
Other 10.4 8.7
Total revenue 39.7 36.6
Cinema City (CEE & Israel)
Revenue by product and service provided
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015
Total
£m
52 week 
period ended 
26 December 
2013 
Total 
£m
Box office 110.5 –
Retail 42.7 –
Other 40.9 –
Total revenue 194.1 – 88
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
3. Other Operating Income
53 week 
period ended 1 
January 2015
Total
£m
52 week period 
ended 26 
December 
2013 
Total 
£m
Rental income 1.8 0.5
Other income 0.2 –
Total other operating income 2.0 0.5
4. Operating Profit
Included in operating profit for the period are the following:
53 week 
period ended  
1 January 2015 
£m
52 week period 
ended
26 December 
2013 
£m
Depreciation (see Note 10) 37.3
(1)
22.3
(1)
Impairments (see Notes 10 and 11) 0.3
(1)
2.0
(1)
Reversals of impairments (see Notes 10 and 11) (1.3)
(1)
–
Amortisation of intangibles (see Note 11) 9.3
(1)
1.7
(1)
Onerous leases and other non-recurring charges (1.9)
(1)
0.7
(1)
Transaction and reorganisation costs 6.9
(1)
8.1
(1)
Hire of other assets – operating leases 50.2
(2)
49.3
(1)
(1) Included in administrative expenses.
(2) £0.4m (2013: £0.4m) is included in administrative costs. The balance is included in cost of sales.
In 2014 there is a net gain of £4.6m on onerous leases following changes in trading assumptions, in 2013 there was no charge in 
respect of onerous leases. Other non-recurring charges made related to provisions of £2.0m and development costs incurred of 
0.7m, in 2013 these related to other provisions made £0.4m and development costs incurred £0.3m.
In 2014 transactions and reorganisation costs include £5.5m relating to the acquisition of Cinema City Holdings B.V. (see Note 9) 
and £1.4m of reorganisation and redundancy costs. In 2013 transaction costs relate to the acquisition of Cinema City Holdings B.V. 
(£6.1m), the competition commission enquiry into the acquisition of Picturehouse in 2012 (£1.2m) and redundancy costs (£0.8m).
The total remuneration of the Group auditor, KPMG LLP, and its affiliates for the services to the Group is analysed below.
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015  
£000
52 week 
period ended 
26 December 
2013  
£000
Auditor’s remuneration:
Group – audit 591 242
Company – audit 6 6
Amounts received by auditors and their associates in respect of:
– Audit of financial statements pursuant to legislation 597 248
– Audit related assurance services 86 50
– Tax compliance services 57 57
– Tax advisory services 206 11
– Other assurance services 75 243
– Corporate finance services – 480
– All other services 55 33 89
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
5. Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, after excluding the weighted average number of non-vested 
ordinary shares held by the employee ownership trust. Adjusted earnings per share is calculated in the same way except that the 
profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders is adjusted by adding back the amortisation of intangible assets, the 
impact of foreign exchange gains and losses recognised on the translation of results generated in currencies other than the 
Group’s reporting currency and other one-off income or expense and then adjusting for the tax impact on those items which is 
calculated at the effective tax rate for the current period. The performance of adjusted earnings per share is used to determine 
awards to Executive Directors under the Group Performance Share Plan (“PSP”). Diluted earnings per share is calculated by 
dividing the profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders by weighted average number of any non-vested ordinary 
shares held by the employee share ownership trust and after adjusting for the effects of dilutive options.
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015 
£m
 52 week
 period ended
 26 December
 2013
(1)
 £m
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 54.5 21.0
Adjustments:
Amortisation of intangible assets
(2)
5.4 1.7
Transaction and reorganisation costs 6.9 8.1
Impairments and reversals of impairments (1.0) 2.0
Onerous lease cost and other non-recurring charges (1.9) 0.7
Exceptional finance charges
(3)
2.6 –
Impact of foreign exchange translation gains and losses
(4)
(4.3) –
Adjusted earnings 62.2 33.5
Tax effect of above items (1.0) (2.2)
Adjusted pro-forma profit after tax 61.2 31.3
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
26 December 
2013 
Number of 
shares (m)
Weighted average number of shares in issue 246.3 149.8
Basic and adjusted earnings per share denominator 246.3 149.8
Dilutive options 2.4 2.1
Diluted earnings per share denominator 248.7 151.9
Shares in issue at period end 263.9 149.9
Pence Pence
Basic earnings per share 22.1 14.0
Diluted earnings per share 21.9 13.8
Adjusted pro-forma basic earnings per share (rights adjusted)
(5)
24.6 18.8
Adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share (rights adjusted)
(5)
24.4 18.6
(1) Following the business combination with Cinema City, the Group has taken the opportunity to consider how it presents its adjusted EPS calculation.  
After a review of comparable UK Premium Listed companies, a decision was made to no longer add back the charge for share-based payments as it is 
considered to be an ongoing cost of remunerating staff. Furthermore, given the international nature of the combined Group, it was decided that only the 
tax impact of non-recurring items should be taken into account rather than applying a single local or effective tax rate. The adjusted basic and diluted 
earnings per share for the 2013 full year were 22.9p and 22.6p as previously stated. The basic and diluted earnings per share have not been adjusted and 
are as previously stated. 
(2) Amortisation of intangible assets includes amortisation of the fair value placed on brands, customer lists, distribution relationships, and advertising 
relationships as a result of the Picturehouse acquisition and Cinema City business combination. It does not include amortisation of purchased distribution 
rights (which totalled £3.9m). 
(3) Exceptional finance charges of £2.6m includes £1.9m in respect of the net change in fair value of cash flow hedges reclassified from equity and the write 
off of £0.7m prepaid finance costs in respect of the Group’s old debt facilities.
(4) Net foreign exchange gain included within earnings comprises of £6.0m foreign exchange gain recognised on translation of the Euro term loan at 
1 January 2015 and £1.7m foreign exchange losses recognised on translating overseas operations into the reporting currency of the Group.
(5) The 2014 adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share have been adjusted for the first 48 days of the period to take into account of the rights issue of  
8 for 25 shares on 14 February 2014. The 2013 adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share have also been adjusted to take account of the rights issue  
in order to present a comparator. The basic and diluted earnings per share have not been adjusted and are as previously stated.  90
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
6. Staff Numbers and Costs
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the period, analysed by category, was 
as follows:
Number of staff
2014 2013
Head office 636 266
Cinemas 8,043 5,232
8,679 5,498
Included in the average number of persons employed by the Group are part-time employees. No distinction is made between 
full-time and part-time employees in the analysis above.
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
53 week 
period ended
1 January 
2015 
£m
52 week 
period ended
26 December 
2013 
£m
Wages and salaries 82.6 59.4
Social security costs 6.7 3.7
Other pension costs – defined contribution 0.8 0.6
Share-based payments (see Note 19) 1.6 1.3
91.7 65.0
See pages 45 to 62 for details of Directors’ remuneration.
7. Finance Income and Expense
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
26 December 
2013 
£m
Interest income 0.3 0.1
Net foreign exchange gain 6.0 –
Defined benefit pension scheme net finance income (Note 19) 0.3 0.2
Finance income 6.6 0.3
Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 10.2 5.2
Amortisation of financing costs 1.8 0.4
Unwind of discount on onerous lease provision 1.2 0.8
Unwind of discount on market rent provision (0.7) –
Interest charge as a result of change in discount rate relating to onerous lease provisions (0.1) –
Other financial costs 0.9 0.4
Finance expense 13.3 6.8
Amounts reclassified from equity to profit or loss in respect settled of cash flow hedges 1.9 –
Total finance expenses 15.2 –
Net finance costs 8.6 6.8
Recognised Within Other Comprehensive Income
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
26 December 
2013 
£m
Movement in fair value of interest rate swap 0.8 1.6
Foreign exchange translation gain/(loss) (34.1) 0.4
Finance expense (33.3) 2.0 91
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
8. Taxation
Recognised in the Income Statement
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
26 December 
2013 
£m
Current tax expense
Current year 13.7 9.8
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.1) (1.0)
Total current tax expense 13.6 8.8
Deferred tax expense
Current year – 1.1
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.8) –
Total tax charge in income statement 12.8 9.9
Effective tax rate 19.0% 30.2%
Current year effective tax rate 20.3% 35.2%
Reconciliation of Effective Tax Rate
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
26 December 
2013 
£m
Profit before tax 67.3 30.9
Tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%) 14.5 7.2
Differences in overseas tax rates (2.2) (0.1)
Permanently disallowed depreciation 1.1 1.3
Other permanent differences 0.2 2.2
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.9) (1.0)
Increase in unrecognised deferred tax assets 0.1 –
Effect of change in statutory rate to 20% (2013: 20%) on deferred tax – 0.3
Total tax charge in income statement 12.8 9.9
During the period there was a deferred tax debit of £0.5m (2013: £0.2m) recognised directly in other comprehensive income. This 
relates to the actuarial loss on the defined benefit scheme and the movement in the fair value of the cash flow hedge on part of 
the Group’s bank loans; see Note 13.
Factors that May Affect Future Tax Charges
As at 1 January 2015 the Group had potential UK tax assets relating to the following:
• Other non-trading losses of approximately £2.6m (2013: £2.6m).
• Capital losses of approximately £8.7m (2013: £7.6m).
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of UK non-trading and capital losses carried forward as it is not 
considered probable that future non-trading income or capital gains will be realised in the UK against which the losses may be 
utilised. The net tax benefit of utilising any of the above losses is expected to amount to approximately 20% of the losses utilised.
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures where the Group controls the timing of 
remittance and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 24% to 23% (effective from 1 April 2013) and to 21% (effective 1 April 2014) were 
substantively enacted on 3 July 2012 and 2 July 2013 respectively. A further reduction to 20% (effective from 1 April 2015) was 
substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. This will reduce the Group’s future current tax charge accordingly. The deferred tax asset 
and liability at 1 January 2015 have been calculated based on the rate of 20% substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
As at 1 January 2015 the Group had potential overseas tax assets relating to the following:
• Trading losses of approximately £9.2m.
• Capital losses of approximately £1.9m.
• Other temporary differences of approximately £6.7m.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised on these temporary differences as it is not considered probable that future trading 
income or capital gains will be realised in these countries against which the assets can be utilised. Losses of £7m are subject to 
time restriction rules and will expire between 2015 and 2018. 92
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
9. Business Combinations
On 10 January 2014, Cineworld Group plc (the “Group”) announced the combination with the cinema business of Cinema City 
International N.V., which has since changed its name to Global City Holdings N.V. (“GCH”), by means of an acquisition of 100% of 
the shares, including all voting rights, in Cinema City Holdings B.V. (“CCH”), a subsidiary of GCH. Management believe that the 
business combination will drive growth in the business and enhance shareholder value by: providing the enlarged Group’s business 
with a platform for further European expansions; giving the enlarged Group significant scope to drive additional benefits from its 
combined operations through operational improvements and the sharing of best practice across the Cineworld and Cinema City 
businesses; and delivering an attractive return on invested capital, being earnings accretive allowing the enlarged Group to 
maintain the existing Cineworld dividend policy. 
Consideration Transferred
At the date of announcement, the headline consideration for the combination equated to £503m in cash and shares and €14.5m 
for the settlement of CCH bank debt. The combination was completed on 28 February 2014, at which point adjustments for certain 
provisions of the purchase agreement resulted in a fair value of consideration transferred of £510.6m.
Consideration for the transaction was settled with a mix of cash and shares. Final cash consideration of £302.6m was part funded 
by an 8 for 25 Rights Issue which completed on 14 February 2014, raising net funds of £107.2m with the residual cash consideration 
being funded within the Group’s new debt facility. The Group issued to GCH shares in Cineworld Group plc which were valued at 
£208.0m when the combination completed on 28 February 2014. The consideration shares represented 24.9% of the post rights 
issue share capital of the Group.
Fair Value of Consideration Transferred
£m
Cash consideration 302.6
Share consideration 208.0
Total fair value of consideration transferred 510.6
The fair value of the 65.6m ordinary shares issued to GCH as part of the consideration was based on the published share price of 
317p at the close of business on 27 February 2014.
Identifiable Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed
At the time of the June 2014 Interim Report, management were in the final stages of valuing the fair value of the acquired 
identifiable intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and assets and liabilities and as a result their respective fair values 
were measured on a provisional basis. This exercise is now complete. The finalisation of the fair values to reflect new information 
obtained about factors and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date resulted in an increase in goodwill of £0.8m. The 
impact of the changes on the acquired assets and liabilities is detailed below. 
Identifiable Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed
£m
Fair value of total net identifiable assets upon acquisition
Intangible assets 53.0
Property, plant and equipment: 132.8
Asset in respect of favourable lease contracts 5.2
Deferred tax assets 5.0
Other non-current assets 0.4
Inventory 3.5
Trade and other receivables 23.1
Cash and cash equivalents 24.1
Provision in respect of unfavourable lease contracts (10.9)
Other provisions in respect of properties and leases (5.4)
Other long-term liabilities (1.7)
Deferred tax liabilities (7.2)
Trade and other payables (47.7)
Total net identifiable assets 174.2
Goodwill 336.4
Consideration transferred 510.6 93
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
9. Business Combinations continued
Property and Leases
The fair value of property, plant and equipment of £132.8m includes a number of adjustments. Old cinema equipment and assets 
from non-trading sites which were previously held at their residual value of £10.8m have been fully depreciated as the residual 
value is not expected to be realised. Assets with a net book value of £7.1m at the date of acquisition have been provided for due to 
the fact that they relate to loss-making cinemas. A further £9.9m (£10.7m stated previously on a provisional basis, based on 
certain assumptions until all the information was available) fair value write down has been recognised where the site-specific 
forecasted cash flows (discounted by applying a country specific market participant discount rate) did not support the net book 
value of the sites’ assets at the date of acquisition. 
As well as considering the fair value of acquired property, plant and equipment, management have also considered the lease 
contract for each of the cinemas. A provision of £3.6m has been made in respect of onerous lease contracts. The provision reflects 
the present value of the future lease payments under these contracts at the date of acquisition to the extent that the contract 
results in the site becoming loss making. A smaller number of leases were identified with future contractual fixed increases in rent. 
A provision of £1.8m (£1.3m stated previously on a provisional basis, before the detailed lease review was completed) has been 
recognised in respect of these contractual increases in line with IAS 17: “Leases” requirement to recognise the future minimum 
payments on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease. An exercise was conducted to compare the current rentals of each of 
the sites to the current assumed average market rental rate. Accordingly, a net provision of £5.7m (£6.6m stated previously on a 
provisional basis, whilst further evidence of market rental rates was obtained) has been recognised in respect of a number of sites 
where the current rental rate is either above or below the assumed average market rental rate. An asset in respect of future 
deduction against rent payments in Poland of £2.4m has been written-down by £2.0m (£2.4m stated previously on a provisional 
basis), as its full recovery is doubtful. 
Tax
The acquired deferred tax asset of £5.0m is stated after a fair value reduction of £0.9m of deferred tax assets which are not 
expected to be recoverable following the acquisition, and included additional tax assets of £3.5m resulting from temporary tax 
differences arising on the fair value adjustments made to acquired assets and liabilities (an increase of £0.3m following the 
changes in fair value of other assets and liabilities). The deferred tax liabilities of £7.2m also include £5.4m in respect of temporary 
tax differences arising on the fair value adjustments made to acquired assets and liabilities. 
Included within trade and other payables in an income tax liability of £3.4m recognised on acquisition (£3.2m stated previously 
on a provisional basis, adjusted to reflect additional information regarding the tax position of the acquired business at the date of 
acquisition). The liability reflects expected future tax charges in respect of tax positions open at the date of acquisition. 
Other Fair Value Adjustments
Other fair value adjustments include £3.1m accelerated amortisation of distribution rights and intellectual property where full 
recovery is considered doubtful. 
Prepaid debt arrangement fees in respect of Cinema City’s old financing totalling £4.8m were released following the 
extinguishment of the loans at the date of acquisition. 
A provision of £5.5m has been recognised (£4.7m stated previously on a provisional basis) has been recognised in respect of 
open litigation and termination payments to employees for which obligations were in place at the date of acquisition. 
Trade receivables comprise gross contractual amounts due of £10.4m, of which £10.2m are expected to be collectable at the 
acquisition date and the fair value of the trade receivables recognised reflects this position. 
Identifiable Intangible Assets
Acquired identifiable intangible assets include £24.4m in respect of brands, £10.3m relating to distribution relationships and 
£11.4m in respect of advertising relationships. 
Management consider the residual of £337.6m to represent a number of factors including the skills and industry knowledge of 
Cinema City’s management and workforce, synergies expected to be realised post acquisition and the future value expected to 
be generated by the Group from Cinema City’s pipeline of new sites and entry into new territories. None of the goodwill is 
expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The revenue included in the consolidated statement of profit or loss since 28 February 2014 contributed by Cinema City was 
£192.0m. Cinema City also contributed £25.8m profit before tax over the same period. Had Cinema City been consolidated from 
27 December 2014 (the commencement of the current financial period), the consolidated statement of profit or loss would show 
revenue of £681.1m and profit before tax of £72.8m. 
Acquisition related costs of £5.5m have been charged to administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of profit or loss 
for the period ended 1 January 2015. In addition, acquisition costs of £6.1m in respect of the transaction were charged to 
administrative expenses in the income statement for the year ended 26 December 2013.  94
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
9. Business Combinations continued
Following the business combination, GCH and its subsidiary companies (“GCH Group”) are considered to be related parties of 
the Cineworld Group as Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger are Directors of both groups. Transactions with related parties 
have been disclosed in Note 25.
10. Property, Plant and Equipment
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m
Fixtures and 
fittings 
£m
Assets 
in the
course of
construction
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
Balance at 27 December 2012 117.4 62.7 61.3 0.2 241.6
Additions 2.5 2.2 12.6 10.5 27.8
Disposals (6.3) (2.7) (10.6) – (19.6)
Transfers 5.2 0.6 3.1 (8.9) –
Transfers to assets classified as held for sale (2.3) (1.7) (0.3) – (4.3)
Effects of movement in foreign exchange 0.1 0.1 0.4 – 0.6
Balance at 26 December 2013 116.6 61.2 66.5 1.8 246.1
Additions due to acquisition 11.9 52.7 60.4 8.5 133.5
Additions 5.2 10.4 13.8 20.1 49.5
Disposals – (6.7) (1.4) – (8.1)
Transfers 4.0 0.6 1.8 (6.4) –
Effects of movement in foreign exchange (3.1) (9.4) (8.0) (0.6) (21.1)
Balance at 1 January 2015 134.6 108.8 133.1 23.4 399.9
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
Balance at 27 December 2012 30.3 21.1 30.2 – 81.6
Charge for the period 6.2 5.8 10.3 – 22.3
Disposals (6.3) (2.7) (10.6) – (19.6)
Effects of movement in foreign exchange 0.1 – 0.3 – 0.4
Transfer to assets classified as held for sale (0.7) (1.2) (0.1) – (2.0)
Impairments 0.6 0.5 0.2 – 1.3
Balance at 26 December 2013 30.2 23.5 30.3 – 84.0
Charge for the period 6.8 15.0 15.5 – 37.3
Disposals – (4.4) (1.3) – (5.7)
Effects of movement in foreign exchange (2.1) (5.7) (4.5) – (12.3)
Impairments 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3
Reversals of impairments (1.2) – (0.1) – (1.3)
Balance at 1 January 2015 33.8 28.6 39.9 – 102.3
Net book value
At 27 December 2012 87.1 41.6 31.1 0.2 160.0
At 26 December 2013 86.4 37.7 36.2 1.8 162.1
At 1 January 2015 100.8 80.2 93.2 23.4 297.6
Land and buildings are made up of short leasehold properties encompassing leasehold improvements and freehold properties.
In 2014 and 2013 there were no significant additions in respect of any distinctive projects. 
The net book value of assets held under a finance lease is:
1 January 
2015 
£m
26 December 
2013 
£m
The net book value of assets held under finance leases comprised
Opening net book value 5.0 5.3
Depreciation charge (0.2) (0.3)
Closing net book value 4.8 5.0
The above assets held under finance leases relate to a finance lease held on two cinema sites, one cinema site which is included 
within land and buildings and equipment at another site which is held in plant and machinery. 95
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
10. Property, Plant and Equipment continued
Interest of £89,000 (2013: £46,000) has been capitalised during the period which relates to the construction of new sites.
With respect to the tangible fixed asset disposals, no proceeds were receivable in the period.
Impairment
The Group considers each Cinema site to be a cash generating unit (“CGU”) and each CGU is reviewed annually for indicators of 
impairment. In assessing whether an asset has been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU is compared to its recoverable 
amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. In the absence of any 
information about the fair value of a CGU, the recoverable amount is deemed to be its value in use. The Group estimates value in 
use using a discounted cash flow model, which applies a pre-tax discount rate for the relevant territory, a table summarising the 
rates used is set out below.
53 week 
period 
ended 
1 January 
2015
£m
52 week 
period 
ended 
26 December 
2013
£m
United Kingdom 11.12% 10.41 %
Israel 16.53% N/A
Poland 11.70% N/A
Bulgaria 15.98% N/A
Romania 17.31% N/A
Hungary 16.54% N/A
Slovakia 16.21% N/A
Czech Republic 15.01% N/A
The future cash flows are based on financial budgets approved by management covering a one-year period. Cash flows beyond 
the first period have been extrapolated using the assumptions used in the impairment model (see Note 11). The £0.2m impairment 
loss, recognised in the Cineworld operating segment, was caused by trading not reaching expectations for the foreseeable future 
in relation to three cinema sites.
Impairment Reversals
Following a significant improvement in trading performance and an increase in the estimated future cash flows of a previously 
impaired site, reversals of £1.3m have been recognised.
Sensitivity to Changes in Assumptions
The level of impairment is predominantly dependent upon forecasting future performance as well as the judgements used in 
arriving at future growth rates and the discount rate applied to cash flow projections. The impact on the impairment charge of 
applying different assumptions to the growth rates used in the five-year business plan and in the discount rates would be as follows:
£m
Impairment if business plan growth rates were reduced by 1% for first five years 0.3
Impairment if property cost growth rates were increased by 1% for first five years 0.2
Impairment if discount rate was increased by 1% 0.3 96
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
11. Intangible Assets
Goodwill 
£m
Brand  
£m
Distribution 
rights 
£m
Other 
intangibles 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
Balance at 27 December 2012 244.4 16.7 – – 261.1
Adjustment resulting from finalisation of fair values recognised on 
acquisition 0.2 (0.2) – – –
Balance at 26 December 2013 244.6 16.5 – – 261.1
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings (see Note 9) 336.3 24.3 16.5 12.2 389.3
Additions – – 5.2 – 5.2
Effects of movement in foreign exchange (19.7) (1.4) (2.7) (0.8) (24.6)
Balance at 1 January 2015 561.2 39.4 19.0 11.4 631.0
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
Balance at 27 December 2012 7.7 1.0 – – 8.7
Amortisation – 1.7 – – 1.7
Impairment 0.7 – – – 0.7
Balance at 26 December 2013 8.4 2.7 – – 11.1
Amortisation – 2.7 5.1 1.5 9.3
Effects of movement in foreign exchange – – (1.6) (0.4) (2.0)
Balance at 1 January 2015 8.4 5.4 3.5 1.1 18.4
Net book value
At 27 December 2012 236.7 15.7 – – 252.4
At 26 December 2013 236.2 13.8 – – 250.0
At 1 January 2015 552.8 34.0 15.5 10.3 612.6
Impairment Testing
Each individual cinema is considered to be a CGU. However, for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, it is acceptable 
under IAS 36 to group CGUs, in order to reflect the level at which it is monitored by management.
The ex-Cine-UK and ex-UGC (including Dublin) businesses are now fully integrated, meaning that goodwill is now monitored on a 
Cineworld wide level. The Picturehouse and Cinema City CGUs are considered as separate groups and have been tested for 
goodwill impairment on this basis. 
The following assumptions have been applied to the individual CGUs when testing for impairment of PPE and groups of CGUs for 
goodwill impairment testing where applicable.
The recoverable amount of Cineworld, Picturehouse and Cinema City CGU’s have been determined based on a value in use 
calculation. That calculation uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a  
one-year period. Cash flows beyond the first year period have been extrapolated using the below assumptions. This growth rate 
does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the market in which Cineworld operates.
The key assumptions used in the cash flow projections for the purpose of the impairment review are as follows:
Cineworld CGU Picturehouse CGU Cinema City CGU
53 week 
period 
ended 
1 January 
2015
%
52 week 
period 
ended 
26 December 
2013
%
53 week 
period 
ended 
1 January 
2015
%
52 week 
period 
ended 
26 December 
2013
%
53 week 
period 
ended 
1 January 
2015
%
52 week 
period 
ended 
26 December 
2013
%
Discount rate 11.12 10.41 11.12 10.41 N/A
(1)
N/A
EBITDAR growth rate 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 N/A
Property cost growth rate 3.00 2.5 3.00 – 3.00 N/A
(1) Individual discount rates for each operating territory have been used, a summary is disclosed in Note 10.
2015 forecast EBITDA, as defined in Note 1, was used as the basis of the future cash flow calculation. This is adjusted to add back 
rent (EBITDAR). In line with long-term industry growth rates, EBITDAR is assumed to grow at 3% per annum.
Property costs are factored into the model, but are assumed to grow at 3.0% per annum over the life of the model. Cash flows are 
projected over the shorter of the lives of the property leases or the intangible assets to which the cash flow relates. 97
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
11. Intangible Assets continued
Cineworld and Picturehouse have discounted forecast flows using a pre-tax discount rate of 11.12% (2013: pre-tax 10.41%) being a 
market participant’s discount rate. Cinema City have discounted forecast flows using a pre-tax discount rates relevant to the 
operating territory of each individual CGU, being a market participant’s discount rate. This is considered to reflect the risks 
associated with the relevant cash flows each CGU.
Management have sensitised the key assumptions in the Cineworld goodwill impairment test including the discount rate and 
under both the base case and sensitised case no indicators of impairment exist. Management believe that any reasonably 
possible change in the key assumptions on which Cineworld’s recoverable amount is based would not cause Cineworld’s carrying 
amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
Management have assessed the carrying value of Cinema City and Picturehouse and sensitised key assumptions in making those 
assessments. Management believe that given the proximity to the acquisition of the CGUs any indications arising from sensitising 
key assumptions do not indicate potential impairment at this stage.
Amortisation Charge
The amortisation of intangible assets is recognised in the following line items in the income statement:
53 week 
period
ended 
1 January 
2015
£m
52 week 
period
ended 
26 December 
2013
£m
Administrative expenses 9.3 1.7
12. Investment in Equity Accounted Investee
The Group has the following investment in a jointly controlled entity:
Country of Incorporation
Class of 
shares held Ownership
Digital Cinema Media Limited England and Wales Ordinary 50%
On 8 February 2008 the Group jointly formed Digital Cinema Media Limited (“DCM”) with Odeon Cinemas Holdings Limited 
(“Odeon”). On 10 July 2008 DCM acquired certain trade and assets (substantially employees, computer systems, leasehold office 
and existing contracts) from Carlton Screen Advertising Limited, the Group’s former advertising supplier.
Under the terms of the shareholder agreement between the Group and Odeon, key business decisions in respect of DCM require 
the unanimous approval of the shareholders. As a consequence, the Directors of the Group do not have total management control 
of DCM, therefore the Group’s investment is accounted for as a joint venture.
1 January 
2015
£m
26 December 
2013
£m
Cost 0.9 0.9
Share of post acquisition reserves (0.3) (0.2)
0.6 0.7
Share of post tax loss (0.1) (0.1)
Carrying value 0.5 0.6
Summary aggregated financial information on jointly controlled entities – 100%:
1 January 
2015 
£m
26 December 
2013 
£m
Current assets 20.0 20.3
Non-current assets 2.0 1.8
Current liabilities (16.4) (16.1)
Non-current liabilities (6.1) (6.4)
Net liabilities (0.5) (0.4)
Income 52.8 49.3
Expenses (52.9) (49.5)
Net loss (0.1) (0.2) 98
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
12. Investment in Equity Accounted Investee continued
Screen advertising represents an important part of the Group’s revenue streams and the joint venture partners recognise the 
importance of protecting this revenue stream. The joint venture partners are able to reduce their share of the advertising income if 
deemed necessary to support DCM.
13. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
1 January 
2015
£m
26 December 
2013
£m
1 January 
2015
£m
26 December
2013
£m
1 January 
2015
£m
26 December
2013
£m
Property, plant and equipment 2.4 – (4.7) (3.5) (2.3) (3.5)
Intangible assets – – (7.8) (2.8) (7.8) (2.8)
Employee benefits 1.0 0.5 (1.7) (1.0) (0.7) (0.5)
Reverse premiums 1.8 1.9 – – 1.8 1.9
Effect of straight-lining operating lease accruals 5.5 5.6 – – 5.5 5.6
Onerous lease 0.7 – – – 0.7 –
Market rent 0.2 – – – 0.2 –
Interest rate swap 0.5 0.5 – – 0.5 0.5
Tax losses 1.4 – – – 1.4 –
Tax assets/(liabilities) 13.5 8.5 (14.2) (7.3) (0.7) 1.2
Set off tax (11.5) (0.4) 11.5 0.4 – –
Net tax assets/(liabilities) 2.0 8.1 (2.7) (6.9) (0.7) 1.2
See Note 8 for details of unrecognised tax assets.
Deferred taxation provided for in the financial statements at the period end represents provision at the local tax rates on the 
above items. 
A review of the deferred tax will be performed at each balance date and adjustments made in the event of a change in any 
key assumptions.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
26 December 
2013
£m
Acquisition
£m
Recognised 
in income
£m
Recognised 
in equity
£m
Forex
£m
1 January 
2015
£m
Property, plant and equipment (3.5) 0.3 0.9 – – (2.3)
Intangible assets (2.8) (5.7) 1.0 – (0.2) (7.7)
Employee benefits (0.5) 0.3 (0.1) (0.4) – (0.7)
Reverse premiums 1.9 – (0.1) – – 1.8
Effect of straight-lining operating lease accruals 5.6 0.3 (0.5) – – 5.4
Onerous lease – 0.9 (0.2) – – 0.7
Market rent – 0.3 (0.1) – – 0.2
Interest rate swap 0.5 – (0.1) 0.1 – 0.5
Tax losses – 1.4 – – – 1.4
Tax assets/(liabilities) 1.2 (2.2) 0.8 (0.3) (0.2) (0.7)
27 December 
2012
£m
Recognised in 
income 
£m
Recognised in 
equity 
£m
Recognised 
on acquisition 
of subsidiary 
undertakings 
£m
26 December 
2013 
£m
Property, plant and equipment (2.9) (0.6) – (1.4) (3.5)
Intangible assets (3.6) 0.8 – (3.6) (2.8)
Employee benefits (0.6) – 0.1 – (0.5)
Reverse premiums 2.2 (0.3) – – 1.9
Effect of straight-lining operating lease accruals 6.6 (1.0) – – 5.6
Interest rate swap 0.8 – (0.3) – 0.5
Tax assets/(liabilities) 2.5 (1.1) (0.2) (5.0) 1.2 99
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
14. Inventories
1 January 
2015
£m
26 December 
2013
£m
Goods for resale 7.7 3.5
Goods for resale recognised in cost of sales in the period amounted to £40.0m (2013: £23.1m).
15. Trade and Other Receivables
Current
1 January 
2015
£m
26 December 
2013
£m
Trade receivables 22.6 6.2
Other receivables 3.4 0.1
Other property receivables 0.1 –
Prepayments and accrued income 35.2 28.3
61.3 34.6
Non-current
1 January 
2015
£m
26 December
2013
£m
Other property receivables 4.6 –
Land lease premiums 0.9 0.9
Loan to jointly controlled entity 0.5 0.5
6.0 1.4
Other property receivables represent the fair value asset of leases acquired with Cinema City Holdings B.V. The fair value liabilities 
of leases acquired are presented in Note 18.
The Virtual Print Fee accrued income balance recognised at the year end of £4.0m (2013: £4.4m) is included within the 
prepayments and accrued income. The balance is accrued based on the number of relevant film screenings during the period. 
Given the complexity of the income recognition criteria, as described in Note 1, and in accordance with IAS 1, the following 
sensitivity is relevant:
A decrease in the number of screenings recognised of 5% would decrease the VPF income recognised by £0.4m.
16. Non-Current Assets Held For Sale
The Competition Commission ruled on 31 January 2014 that as a result of Cineworld Group plc acquiring City Screen Limited and 
its subsidiaries (“Picturehouse”) there was a substantial lessening of competition in three local geographical areas and that the 
divestment of either a Cineworld or Picturehouse cinema in each of the affected cities was required.  As a result, the Group has 
divested itself of assets in Aberdeen and Bury St Edmunds during the year and divested assets in Cambridge on 29 January 2015. 
As at the period end, the Cambridge assets were being actively marketed for sale and are therefore presented as non-current 
assets held for sale.
The values in the table below represent the net book value of property, plant and equipment and associated liabilities which are 
shown as current assets and liabilities held for sale. Since the fair value less costs to sell is expected to be in excess of the net 
book value of the property, plant and equipment no impairment of such assets is required.
1 January 
2015
£m
26 December 
2013
£m
Assets classified as held for sale
Property, plant and equipment 1.5 2.3
Liabilities classified as held for sale
Interest-bearing loans – (0.1)
As a result of the potential sale of Picturehouse sites in the prior year, we considered the carrying value of the brand asset and 
goodwill recognised on acquisition associated with these sites. It was determined that goodwill, presented in the Picturehouse 
operating segment, in respect of the sites was impaired by £0.7m in 2013. No such impairment was required in 2014 as assets held 
for sale were made up entirely of Cineworld sites with no associated goodwill or intangibles. 100
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
16. Non-Current Assets Held For Sale continued
Significant estimation was required by management to allocate the goodwill across the cinema portfolio. Management took the 
forecast EBITDA for each cinema, analysing each sites relative performance and used this to allocate goodwill. This balance 
together with the property, plant and equipment assets were then compared to the fair values less costs to sell, resulting in the 
above impairment of £0.7m in 2013.
17. Interest-Bearing Loans and Borrowings and Other Financial Liabilities
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
1 January 
2015
£m
26 December 
2013
£m
Non-current liabilities
Interest rate swaps 1.8 0.9
Unsecured bank loan, less issue costs of debt to be amortised 283.9 118.1
Liabilities under finance leases 6.7 6.0
292.4 125.0
Current liabilities
Interest rate swaps 0.9 1.0
Unsecured bank loans, less issue costs of debt to be amortised 23.2 4.6
Liabilities under finance leases 0.7 0.7
24.8 6.3
The terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows:
1 January 2015 26 December 2013
Currency Nominal interest rate
Year of 
maturity
Face
value 
£m
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Face
value 
£m
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Unsecured bank loan – 1 GBP LIBOR +1.95% 2016 – – 123.5 122.7
Unsecured bank loan – 2 GBP LIBOR +2.15% 2018 209.0 206.0 – –
Unsecured bank loan – 3 EURO EURIBOR +1.15% 2018 102.8 101.1 – –
Finance lease liability – 1 GBP 7.2% 2029 6.4 6.4 6.6 6.6
Finance lease liability – 2 GBP 4.5% 2015 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Finance lease liability – 3 EURO 6.5% 2021 0.9 0.9 – –
Total interest bearing liabilities 319.2 314.5 130.2 129.4
See Note 22 for bank loan maturity analysis.
Finance Lease Liabilities
The maturity of obligations under finance leases is as follows:
1 January 
2015
£m
26 December 
2013
£m
Within one year 0.7 0.7
Between one and two years 0.6 0.6
In the second to fifth years 2.7 2.0
Over five years 7.4 7.9
11.4 11.2
Less future finance charges (4.0) (4.5)
6.4 6.7 101
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
17. Interest-Bearing Loans and Borrowings and Other Financial Liabilities continued
Analysis of Net Debt
Cash at bank 
and in hand
£m
Bank 
overdraft
£m
Bank 
loans
£m
Finance
leases
£m
Interest rate
swap
£m
Net debt
£m
At 27 December 2012 10.9 – (127.3) (7.0) (3.5) (126.9)
Cash flows 8.1 – 4.9 0.9 – 13.9
Non-cash movement – – (0.4) (0.6) 1.6 0.6
Transferred to liabilities classified as held for sale – – 0.1 – – 0.1
At 26 December 2013 19.0 – (122.7) (6.7) (1.9) (112.3)
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 24.1 – – (0.7) – 23.4
Cash flows (3.6) (2.1) (188.6) 0.7 – (193.6)
Non-cash movement – – (1.8) (0.7) (0.8) (3.3)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange rates (2.1) – 6.0 – – 3.9
At 1 January 2015 37.4 (2.1) (307.1) (7.4) (2.7) (281.9)
The non-cash movements relating to bank loans represent the amortisation of debt issuance costs.
18. Trade and Other Payables
1 January 
2015 
£m
26 December 
2013 
£m
Current
Trade payables 28.3 21.1
Other payables 7.5 10.8
Accruals and deferred income 74.9 50.8
110.7 82.7
1 January 
2015 
£m
26 December 
2013 
£m
Non-current
Accruals and deferred income 57.1 54.8
57.1 54.8
Non-current accruals and deferred income include reverse-lease premiums and an accrual for straight-lining operating leases.
19. Employee Benefits
Pension Plans
The Group operates two externally funded defined benefit pension schemes, one in the United Kingdom, the MGM Pension 
Scheme, and one in Ireland, the Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan.
MGM Scheme
The Scheme is a funded scheme of the defined benefit type, providing retirement benefits based on final salary. The Scheme 
closed to future accrual from 31 May 2009, though the link to final pay at retirement was retained.
The Group has engaged its actuary’s assistance in measuring the defined benefit asset for the purposes of IAS19 revised for the 
period ended 1 January 2015.
The valuation used for IAS19 disclosures has been based on a full assessment of the liabilities of the Scheme as at 5 April 2012. The 
present values of the defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost and any past service costs were measured using 
the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses have been recognised in the period in which they occur, but outside the Income Statement, through 
Other Comprehensive Income.
The Company made contributions of £1.6m during 2014 (2013: £1.6m).
Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan
The Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan is closed to new entrants and therefore the current service cost is £nil. 
The trustees of the Adelphi-Carlton Contributory Pension Plan have not agreed that any surplus on the plan can be refunded 
to the Company. Accordingly the surplus has not been recognised. The Scheme has a surplus of £0.5m as at 1 January 2015 
(2013: £0.4m). 102
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
19. Employee Benefits continued
Actuaries for Adelphi-Carlton Limited carried out the last actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 1 April 2013. Based on this 
assessment, the actuarial value of the assets of the scheme was more than sufficient to cover 100% of the benefits that had 
accrued to members. In view of this, a suspension of Company contributions was in force from 1 April 2001 to 1 January 2015. 
Total contributions for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2013 and 53 weeks ended 1 January 2015 were £nil and £nil, 
respectively. No contributions are expected for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The net surplus/(deficit) in the pension scheme is:
1 January 
2015 
£m
26 December 
2013 
£m
MGM Pension Scheme 8.6 5.3
Net surplus 8.6 5.3
MGM Pension Scheme
Profile of the Scheme
The defined benefit obligation includes benefits for current employees, former employees and current pensioners.
1 January 
2015 
£m
26 December 
2013 
£m
Analysis of defined benefit obligation by membership category
Total value of current employees benefits 2.8 2.3
Deferred members benefits 11.2 9.6
Pensioner member benefits 18.4 16.9
Total defined benefit obligation 32.4 28.8
The scheme duration is an indicator of the weighted–average time until benefit payments are made. For the Scheme as a whole, 
the duration is around 15 years reflecting the approximate split of the defined benefit obligation between current employees 
(duration of 26 years), deferred members (duration of 20 years) and current pensioners (duration of ten years).
Funding Requirements
UK legislation requires that pension schemes are funded prudently. The last funding valuation of the Scheme was carried out by a 
qualified actuary as at 5 April 2012 and showed a deficit of £0.4m.
The Company is paying deficit contributions of £1.6m per annum which, along with investment returns from return-seeking 
assets, is expected to make good this shortfall by February 2015. The next funding valuation is due no later than 5 April 2015 at 
which progress towards full-funding will be reviewed. A contribution of £1.6m is expected to be paid by the Company during the 
52 week period ending 31 December 2015.
Risks Associated With the Scheme
The Scheme exposes the Group to a number of risks, the most significant of which are:
Asset Volatility The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields;  
if assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit. The Scheme holds a significant 
proportion of growth assets (equity diversified growth funds and global absolute return fund) 
which, though expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term, create volatility and 
risk in the short term. The allocation to growth assets is monitored to ensure it remains 
appropriate given the Scheme’s long-term objectives.
Changes in Bond Yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the value placed on the Scheme’s liabilities for 
accounting purposes, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the 
Scheme’s bond holdings.
Inflation Risk A significant proportion of the Scheme’s benefit obligations are linked to inflation, and higher 
inflation will lead to higher liabilities (although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary 
increases are in place to protect against extreme inflation). The majority of the assets are either 
unaffected by or only loosely correlated with inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will 
also increase the deficit.
Life Expectancy The majority of the Scheme’s obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member,  
so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the liabilities.
A contingent liability exists in relation to the equalisation of Guaranteed Minimum Pension (“GMP”). The UK Government intends  
to implement legislation which could result in an increase in the value of GMP for males. This would increase the defined benefit 
obligation of the plan. At this stage, it is not possible to quantify the impact of this change. 103
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
19. Employee Benefits continued
The amounts recognised on the Balance Sheet are set out below:
1 January 
2015
£m
26 December 
2013 
£m
27 December 
2012 
£m
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (32.4) (28.8) (28.1)
Fair value of plan assets 41.0 34.1 32.5
Surplus in scheme 8.6 5.3 4.4
When the members’ benefits have been fully paid, the rules of the scheme permit any surplus to revert to the employer  
(the Group). Therefore the surplus on the scheme has been recognised as an asset.
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation:
53 week 
period ended 
1January 
2015 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
26 December 
2013 
£m
At beginning of period (28.8) (28.1)
Interest cost (1.2) (1.2)
Actuarial loss (3.6) (0.6)
Benefits paid 1.2 1.1
At end of period (32.4) (28.8)
Movements in fair value of plan assets:
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
26 December 
2013 
£m
At start of period 34.1 32.5
Expected return on plan assets 1.5 1.4
Actuarial gain/(loss) 5.2 (0.1)
Contributions by employer 1.6 1.6
Administration costs incurred (0.2) (0.2)
Benefits paid (1.2) (1.1)
At end of period 41.0 34.1
(Expense)/income recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income:
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
26 December 
2013 
£m
Operating cost
 Administration expenses (0.2) (0.2)
Net finance costs
 Defined benefit pension scheme net finance income 0.3 0.2
Other comprehensive income
 Remeasurement of the defined benefit asset 1.6 (0.7)
Total recognised in profit and loss and other comprehensive income 1.7 (0.7) 104
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
19. Employee Benefits continued
The (expense)/income is recognised in the following line items in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income:
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
26 December 
2013 
£m
Administrative expenses (0.2) (0.2)
Finance income 0.3 0.2
Total 0.1 –
Analysis of amounts recognised in Other Comprehensive Income:
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
26 December 
2013 
£m
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in the period 1.6 (0.7)
The Scheme assets are invested in the following asset classes (all assets have a quoted market value in an active market):
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
26 December 
2013 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012
£m
Equities 6.8 – 5.0
Index linked bonds – 13.5 8.3
Corporate bonds – 3.3 3.3
Absolute return funds 14.5 17.1 15.7
Liability driven instruments 19.4 – –
Other 0.3 0.2 0.2
41.0 34.1 32.5
Cineworld Cinemas Limited employs a building block approach in determining the long-term rate of return on pension plan assets. 
Historical markets are studied and assets with higher volatility are assumed to generate higher returns consistent with widely 
accepted capital market principles. The assumed long-term rate of return on each asset class is set out within this note. The overall 
expected rate of return on assets is then derived by aggregating the expected return for each asset class over the actual asset 
allocation for the Scheme at the accounting date.
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
26 December 
2013 
£m
Expected return on scheme assets 1.5 1.4
Actuarial gains/(losses) 5.2 (0.1)
Actual return on plan assets 6.7 1.3
The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the liabilities under IAS 19 are set out below:
53 week 
period ended 
15 January 
2015 
%
52 week 
period ended 
26 December 
2013 
%
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012
%
RPI Inflation 3.1 3.4 3.0
CPI Inflation 2.0 2.4 2.3
Rate of general long-term increase in salaries 4.1 4.4 4.0
Rate of increase to pensions in payment 1.8–3.3 2.1–3.4 2.0–3.3
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 3.35 4.4 4.5 105
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
19. Employee Benefits continued
The financial assumptions reflect the nature and term of the Scheme’s liabilities.
Main demographic assumptions
53 week period ended
1 January 2015
52 week period ended
26 December 2013
52 week period ended
27 December 2012
Mortality table adopted S1PXA base table with 
future improvements in line 
with CMI 2014 core 
projections with long-term 
improvement rate of 1% 
 per annum.
S1PXA base table with 
future improvements in line 
with CMI 2013 core 
projections with long-term 
improvement rate of 1% 
per annum.
S1PXA base table with 
future improvements in line 
with CMI 2011 core 
projections with long-term 
improvement rate of 1% 
per annum.
Life expectancy for male  
currently aged 65 22.1 22.0 22.2
Life expectancy for female  
currently aged 65 24.3 24.2 22.4
Cash commutation Members assumed to 
exchange 31% of their 
pension for a cash lump 
sum at retirement
Members assumed to 
exchange 31% of their 
pension for a cash lump 
sum at retirement
Members assumed to 
exchange 31% of their 
pension for a cash lump  
sum at retirement
The mortality assumptions are based on the recent actual mortality experience of scheme members, and allow for expected 
future improvement in mortality rates.
History of Plans
The history of the plans for the current and prior periods is as follows:
Balance Sheet
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
26 December 
2013 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
53 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011
£m
52 week 
period ended 
30 December 
2010 
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligation (32.4) (28.8) (28.1) (28.4) (28.3)
Fair value of plan assets 41.0 34.1 32.5 30.4 28.3
Surplus 8.6 5.3 4.4 2.0 –
Experience Adjustments
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
26 December 
2013 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
27 December 
2012 
£m
53 week 
period ended 
29 December 
2011
£m
52 week 
period ended 
30 December 
2010 
£m
Experience gain/(loss) on plan assets 5.2 (0.1) 0.4 0.3 0.7
Experience (loss)/gain on plan liabilities (0.1) (0.1) 1.0 – 0.2
Sensitivity to Key Assumptions
The key assumptions used for IAS 19 are: discount rate, inflation and mortality. If different assumptions were used, this could have 
a material effect on the results disclosed. The sensitivity of the results to these assumptions is as follows:
Defined 
Benefit 
Obligation
£m
Present value of Defined Benefit Obligation (“DBO”) (32.4)
DBO following a 0.25% decrease in the discount rate (33.7)
DBO following a 0.25% increase in the discount rate (31.3)
DBO following a 0.25% decrease in the inflation assumption (31.7)
DBO following a 0.25% increase in the inflation assumption (33.3)
DBO following a Life Expectancy increase by 1 year (33.5)
The sensitivity information shown above has been prepared using the same method as adopted when adjusting the results of the 
latest funding valuation to the balance sheet date.
The Group expects to contribute approximately £1.6m to its defined benefit plans in the next financial period. 106
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
19. Employee Benefits continued
Defined Contribution Plans
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans.
The total expense relating to these plans in the current year was £0.6m (2013: £0.6m). There was £0.1m accruing to these pension 
schemes as at 1 January 2015 (2013: £0.2m).
Accrued Employee Retirement Rights
Local applicable labour laws and agreements in CEE require certain group companies to pay severance pay to dismissed  
or retiring employees (including those leaving their employment under certain other circumstances). The calculation of the 
severance pay liability has been made in accordance with labour agreements in force and based on salary components that,  
in management’s opinion, create entitlement to severance pay. 
Group companies’ severance pay liabilities to their employees are funded partially by regular deposits with recognised pension 
and severance pay funds in the employees’ names and by purchase of insurance policies. They are accounted for as if they were  
a defined contribution plan. The amounts funded as above are netted against the related liabilities and are not reflected in the 
statement of financial position since they are not under the control and management of the companies. 
The amounts of the liability for severance pay presented in the statement of financial position (see below) reflect that part of the 
liability not covered by the funds and the insurance policies mentioned above, as well as the liability that is funded by deposits 
with recognised central severance pay funds held under the name of the Company’s subsidiaries. 
The cost of severance provision is determined according to the projected unit credit method. It has been calculated using  
a discounted cash flow approach. The calculations are based on the following assumptions: 
• Discount at 1 January 2015 0.34%. 
• Expected returns on plan assets at 1 January 2015 0.34%. 
The net provision for accrued employee rights upon retirement comprises:
1 January 
2015
£m
26 December 
2013 
£m
Present value of unfunded obligation 2.8 –
Less: Fair value of plan assets (1.8) –
1.0 –
Movements in the provision for accrued employee rights upon retirement: 
Gross 
amount 
£m
Amount 
deposited 
£m
Net amount 
£m
On acquisition of subsidiary undertakings (see Note 9) 2.5 (1.6) 0.9
Payments made upon retirement – 0.1 0.1
Deposits made – (0.1) (0.1)
Actuarial loss – – –
Net movement in provision – charged to net profit 0.4 – 0.4
Effects of movement in foreign exchange (0.1) (0.2) (0.3)
2.8 (1.8) 1.0
Share-Based Payments
As at 1 January 2015 there were three types of share option and share schemes: the Cineworld Group 2007 Sharesave Scheme, 
the Cineworld Group 2007 Performance Share Plan and the Cineworld Group plc Company Share Option Plan.
Grants were made under the Sharesave Scheme in 2014.
The fair value is measured at the grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally 
entitled to the options.
Period Ended 26 December 2013
Awards over 76,745 shares lapsed in 2013.
A charge of £100,000 was recorded in the income statement for the period in respect of the 2012 Sharesave Scheme grant. 107
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
19. Employee Benefits continued
Period Ended 1 January 2015
Awards over 106,680 shares lapsed in 2014.
A charge of £221,000 was recorded in the income statement for the period in respect of the 2012 and 2014 Sharesave Scheme grants.
The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan (“PSP”)
Period Ended 26 December 2013
Under the PSP, awards of conditional shares or nil cost options can be made that vest or become exercisable after three years 
subject to continued employment and generally the achievement of specified performance conditions as follows:
• 30% of the shares under the award will vest if the average annual growth in earnings per share (“EPS”) (calculated by 
comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 27 December 2012 and the EPS for the financial year ending 30 December 2015) 
is not less than the annual compound increase in the UK RPI plus 3% per annum compared and calculated for the same periods;
• 100% of the shares under the award will vest if the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the 
financial year ended 27 December 2012 and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2015) is at least equivalent to the 
annual compound increase in the UK RPI plus 8% per annum compared and calculated for the same periods; and
• where the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 27 December 2012 and 
the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2015) is between the two limits above, the award shall vest on a straight-line 
basis between 30% and 100%.
Grants were made under the PSP scheme on 15 March 2013. Under these grants, awards over 551,900 shares were made in total. 
Awards over 317,228 shares were made with the performance conditions set out above. Further awards over 234,672 shares were 
made which will vest after three years subject to continued employment only, with no specified performance conditions attached.
EPS for the 2013 grant was defined as adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the 
financial statements.
Period Ended 1 January 2015
Further grants were made under the PSP scheme on 6 June 2014. Under these grants, awards over 705,515 shares were made in 
total. Awards over 563,210 shares were made with the performance conditions set out below.
• 30% of the shares under the award will vest if the average annual growth in earnings per share (“EPS”) (calculated by 
comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 26 December 2013 and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2016) 
is not less than the annual compound increase of 10% per annum;
• 100% of the shares under the award will vest if the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the 
financial year ended 26 December 2013 and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2016) is at least equivalent to 
the annual compound increase of 18% per annum; and
• Where the average annual growth in EPS (calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 26 December 2013 and 
the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2016) is between the two limits above, the award shall vest on a straight-line 
basis between 30% and 100%.
Further awards over 142,305 shares were made which will vest after three years subject to continued employment only,  
with no specified performance conditions attached.
EPS for the 2014 grant was defined as adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the 
financial statements. 
Awards over 368,423 shares lapsed during 2014.
A charge of £1,327,000 was recorded in the income statement in respect of the 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 PSP schemes.
The Company Share Option Plan (“CSOP”)
Period Ended 26 December 2013
Grants under the CSOP were made on 15 March 2013. Under these grants awards over 25,109 shares were made in total.  
Awards over 3,587 shares were made with the same conditions as the 2013 PSP grant. Awards over 21,522 shares were  
made with no performance conditions attached.
EPS for the 2013 grant was defined as adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the 
financial statements.
A charge of £29,000 was recorded in the income statement in respect of the 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 CSOP schemes.
Period Ended 1 January 2015
Further grants were made under the CSOP on 6 June 2014. Under these grants awards over 17,346 shares were made in total. 
Awards over 2,891 shares were made with the same conditions as the 2014 PSP grant. Awards over 14,455 were made with no 
performance conditions attached. 108
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
19. Employee Benefits continued
EPS for the 2014 grant was defined as adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the 
financial statements. 
Awards over 11,120 shares lapsed during 2014.
A charge of £22,000 was recorded in the income statement in respect of the 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 CSOP schemes.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options in equity settled schemes are as follows:
Weighted  
average  
exercise 
price 2014
(£) 
Equity-
settled
Number of 
options  
2014 
Equity-
settled
Weighted  
average  
exercise 
price 2013
(£) 
Equity-
settled
Number of 
options  
2013 
Equity-
settled
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 0.56 2,435,336 0.68 2,256,626
Adjustment due to rights issue – 282,606 – –
Exercised in shares during the year 0.52 (401,885) 0.44 (272,811)
Granted during the year 1.03 1,214,046 0.13 577,009
Lapsed during the year 0.47 (486,223) 1.09 (125,488)
Outstanding at the end of the year 0.77 3,043,880 0.56 2,435,336
Exercisable at the end of the year 2.08 10,662 1.98 15,090
The average share price during 2014 was £3.38 (2013: £3.34).
Assumptions relating to grants of share options in 2013 were:
Scheme name Date of grant
Share price
at grant
(£)
Exercise  
price
(£)
Expected 
volatility
(%)
Expected life
(years)
Dividend  
yield
(%)
Risk
free rate
(%)
Fair value  
(£)
PSP 15 March 2013 2.80 nil 42 3.0 4.7 0.51 2.43
CSOP 15 March 2013 2.80 2.79 42 3–10 years 4.7 0.51 0.58
Assumptions relating to grants of share options in 2014 were:
Scheme name Date of grant
Share price
at grant
(£)
Exercise  
price
(£)
Expected 
volatility
(%)
Expected life
(years)
Dividend  
yield
(%)
Risk
free rate
(%)
Fair value  
(£)
PSP 6 June 2014 3.49 nil 41 3.0 4.3 0.56 3.07
CSOP 6 June 2014 3.49 3.46 41 3–10 years 4.3 0.56 0.73
The total expenses recognised for the period arising from share-based payments are as follows:
52 week 
period ended 
25 December 
2014 
£m
52 week 
period ended 
26 December 
2013 
£m
Recognised in equity 1.4 1.2
Recognised in creditors 0.2 0.1
1.6 1.3
The share-based payment expense recognised in creditors relates to dividends accrued by the option holders over the 
vesting period. 109
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
19. Employee Benefits continued
Directors Remuneration
The table below sets out the aggregate remuneration paid to all directors during the year:
 
Financial  
year
Base salary 
and fees
(£000)
Benefits
(1)
(£000)
Annual 
bonus
(£000)
Sharesave
(2)
(£000)
PSP
(£000)
CSOP
(£000)
Total LTI
(£000)
Pension
(£000)
Total
(£000)
Executive Directors
Philip Bowcock 2014 358 20 249 – 377
(3)
9
(3)
386 72 1,085
2013 343
(6)
20 176 – – – – 53 592
Mooky Greidinger 2014 459 66 349 – – – – 92 966
2013 – – – – – – – – –
Israel Greidinger 2014 313 60 239 – – – – 63 675
2013 – – – – – – – – –
Stephen Wiener
(4)
2014 122 12 85 – 462
(3)
5
(7)
467 25 711
2013 479 41 197 – 507
(8)
6
(5)
513 96 1,326
Non-Executive Directors
Anthony Bloom 2014 163 – – – – – – – 163
2013 100 – – – – – – – 100
Martina King 2014 48 – – – – – – – 48
2013 39 – – – – – – – 39
David Maloney 2014 72 – – – – – – – 72
2013 55 – – – – – – – 55
Thomas McGrath
(4)
2014 – – – – – – – – –
2013 14 13 – – – – – – 27
Scott Rosenblum 2014 42 – – – – – – – 42
2013 – – – – – – – – –
Arni Samuelsson
(4)
2014 42 – – – – – – – 42
2013 – – – – – – – – –
Rick Senat 2014 53 – – – – – – – 53
2013 39 – – – – – – – 39
Peter Williams 2014 59 – – – – – – – 59
2013 54 – – – – – – – 54
(1)  See page 47 for details of the other benefits provided to the Executive Directors. The figures in this column for the Non-Executive Directors relate to 
taxable travel costs to attend Cineworld Board meetings, including related sustenance and accommodation.
(2)  Under the Sharesave Scheme, employees are able to acquire shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the market value at grant. The figures in 
this table relate to the value of this discount at the date of grant.
(3) The gain on PSP shares and CSOP option vesting in the period has been calculated using a share price of £3.57, being the average price for the last three 
months of the period (as they will not vest until 26 March 2015) and in the case of the PSP award includes payment of a cash sum equivalent to the 
dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting. The dividend 
equivalent payment to Stephen Wiener will amount to £37,116 and to Philip Bowcock will amount to £30,300.
(4)  Thomas McGrath and Stephen Wiener left the Company on 15 May 2013 and 31 March 2014 respectively.
(5)  This CSOP option, although vested, had not been exercised and for comparison purposes a share price of £3.36, being the average price for the last three 
months of the period, has been used to calculate the value. It was subsequently exercised and details of the gain made are set out on page 55.
(6)  Figure represents base salary and a special one-off salary supplement of £80,031 awarded to reflect the additional level of responsibility taken following 
the announcement that Stephen Wiener was leaving.
(7) Exercised early so figure reflects actual value received, but relates to the period in question. See page 55 for details.
(8)  The gain on the PSP option vesting in this period was calculated using a share price of £3.36, being the average post rights issue for the last three months 
of the period (as they did not vest until 29 March 2014) and included payment of a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the 
vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting. The dividend equivalent payment to Stephen Wiener was £42,349. 
The option was subsequently exercised and details of the gain made are set out on page 54. 110
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
19. Employee Benefits continued
Executive Directors are invited to participate in a Group Personal Pension Plan, which is a money purchase plan or alternatively 
may receive a pension allowance in cash. The Company contribution to this pension scheme for Executive Directors is 20% of 
salary. All the Executive Directors (except Stephen Wiener) have elected not to participate in this scheme and instead receive  
a cash pension allowance of 20% of salary.
Share options were exercised by Stephen Wiener and Richard Jones during the year, details of the amounts exercised can be 
found in the Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 62.
20. Provisions
Property 
provisions 
£m
Other 
provisions 
£m
Total 
provisions 
£m
Balance at 26 December 2013
Current 10.4 – 10.4
Non-current 0.7 0.4 1.1
11.1 0.4 11.5
Additional provisions due to acquisition 16.3 9.5 25.8
Provisions released to administrative expenses during the period (4.9) (1.3) (6.2)
Utilised against rent during the period (5.0) – (5.0)
Unwound against interest during the period 1.7 – 1.7
Balance at 1 January 2015 19.2 8.6 27.8
Current 1.5 5.1 6.6
Non-current 17.7 3.5 21.2
Total 19.2 8.6 27.8
Property provisions relate to onerous leases, dilapidations, market rent adjustments and other property liabilities. Market rent 
provisions relate to the fair value of liabilities on leases acquired with Cinema City Holdings B.V.
The majority of the property provision relates to onerous leases, which is made on the acquisition of a cinema as part of a 
business, being the unavoidable costs of the lease obligations in excess of the economic benefits expected to be received from 
operating it. The unavoidable costs of the lease reflect the lease net cost of exiting from the contract and is measured as the lower 
of the net cost of continuing to operate the lease and any penalties or other costs from exiting it, measured on a discounted basis. 
The remaining provision will be utilised over the period to the next rent review date or the remaining lease life depending on the 
term of the lease. This is between one and 30 years (see further analysis below).
1 January 
2015 
£m
26 December 
2013 
£m
Expected timing for utilisation of property provisions
Analysed as:
Within one year 1.5 0.7
Between one and two years 1.7 0.4
In the second to fifth years 7.7 1.8
Over five years 8.3 8.2
19.2 11.1
Sensitivity to Changes in Assumptions Relating to Property Provisions
The level of provision is dependent upon judgements in forecasting future cash flows and used in arriving at the discount rate 
applied to cash flow projections. The impact on the property provisions by applying different assumptions to the discount rate 
would be as follows:
£m
Property provisions if discount rate was increased by 1% (0.3)
Property provisions if discount rate was decreased by 1% 0.3 111
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
21. Capital and Reserves
Share Capital
1 January 
2015 
£m
26 December 
2013 
£m
Cineworld Group plc
Allotted, called up and fully paid
263,860,665 (2013: 149,892,079) ordinary shares of £0.01 each 2.6 1.5
During the year rights issue shares were offered by way of rights to all qualifying shareholders on the basis of eight rights issue  
shares at 230 pence per rights issue share for every 25 Existing Ordinary Shares held and registered in their name at the close  
of business on the record date. The rights issue price of 230 pence per rights issue share represented a discount of approximately 
41.3% to the closing price of an existing ordinary share of 392 pence on 9 January 2014 (being the latest Business Day prior to the 
announcement of the Rights Issue) and a 34.8% discount to the theoretical ex-rights price based on that closing price.
During the year a total of 113,968,586 ordinary shares of nominal value £0.01 were issued. 299,305 (2013: 210,475) ordinary 
shares were part of the Cineworld Group 2007 Performance Share Plan, 87,278 (2013: 53,080) ordinary shares were part of the 
Cineworld Group plc Company Share Option Plan, 15,302 (2013: 9,256) were part of the Cineworld Group 2007 Sharesave 
Scheme, 47,965,465 were arose from the rights issue described above and 65,601,236 arose as part of the consideration for 
Cinema City, as described in Note 9. Total consideration of £110,512,403 (2013: £121,000) was received for shares issued in the 
year excluding the consideration shares described in Note 9. This is after deducting transaction costs.
Translation Reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of 
foreign operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
Merger Reserve
In accordance with section 612 of the Companies Act 2006, the premium on ordinary shares issued in relation to acquisitions  
is recorded as a merger reserve.
Hedging Reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the liability in relation to the interest rate swaps entered into, to hedge against variable interest 
payments on £141.5 (2013: £55.0m) of the total £283.9m (2013: £123.5m) of bank debt. As hedge accounting has been adopted 
the gains/losses are recorded through equity until such time as the cash flows being hedged occur, when they are recycled to  
the income statement. During the year a £1.9m loss was recycled through the Profit or Loss account in respect of the fair value  
of cash flow hedges on loans settled during the year.
Dividends
The following dividends were recognised during the period:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Interim 10.0 6.1
Final (for the preceding period) 16.9 12.0
26.9 18.1
An interim dividend of 3.8p per share was paid on 2 October 2014 to ordinary shareholders (2013: 4.1p). The Board has proposed  
a final dividend of 9.7p per share, which will result in total cash payable of approximately £9.1m on 9 July 2015. In accordance with 
IAS10 this had not been recognised as a liability at 1 January 2015. 112
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
22. Financial Instruments
Overview
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
• Credit risk.
• Liquidity risk.
• Market risk.
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of capital.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. 
The Group has in place a risk management programme and regular reports are made to the Audit Committee, which is tasked 
with general oversight.
The Group’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk 
limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to 
reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities. The Group, through its training and management standards and 
procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles 
and obligations.
The Group’s Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and 
procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks by the Group. The Group’s Audit 
Committee is assisted in its oversight role by internal audit. Internal audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of certain 
risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and investment securities.
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. However, due to the nature of the Group’s business, trade 
receivables are not significant which limits the related credit risk. The Group’s trade receivables are disclosed in Note 15. Of the 
total balance of £22.6m (2013: £6.2m) due 68% (2013: 75%) are within credit terms. The bad debt provision as at 2014 is £11k 
(2013: £11,000), with a bad debt expense in the period of nil (2013: £nil). Based on past experience the Group believes that no 
impairment allowance is necessary in respect of the trade receivables that are past due. The credit risk on liquid funds and 
derivative financial instruments is also limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings.
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to 
managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under 
both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of 
netting agreements. The amounts disclosed in the table are contractual undiscounted cash flows, including interest payments 
calculated using interest rates in force at each balance sheet date, so will not always reconcile with the amounts disclosed on the 
balance sheet. 113
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
22. Financial Instruments continued
1 January 2015
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Contractual 
cash flows 
£m
6 months  
or less 
£m
6–12  
months 
£m
1–2  
years 
£m
2–5  
years 
£m
More than 
5 years 
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Unsecured bank loans 307.1 (311.8) (12.2) (12.2) (24.3) (263.1) –
Finance lease liabilities 6.5 (10.8) (0.4) (0.3) (0.7) (2.0) (7.4)
Trade and other payables 28.3 (28.3) (28.3) – – – –
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swap 1 0.6 (0.6) (0.3) (0.2) (0.1) – –
Interest rate swap 2 0.6 (0.6) (0.3) (0.2) (0.1) – –
Interest rate swap 3 0.5 (0.7) (0.1) (0.1) (0.3) (0.2) –
Interest rate swap 4 0.5 (0.7) (0.1) (0.1) (0.3) (0.2) –
Interest rate swap 5 0.25 (0.2) (0.05) (0.05) (0.05) (0.05) –
Interest rate swap 6 0.25 (0.2) (0.05) (0.05) (0.05) (0.05) –
344.6 (353.9) (41.8) (13.2) (25.9) (265.6) (7.4)
As part of the combination Cineworld Group plc restructured its debt financing, an element of which was drawn to part settle the 
cash consideration of £272m and €14.5m. The residual of the facility has been drawn to refinance the existing facilities of the 
combined group and to fund general working capital requirements going forward. The new facility provides funding of £400m of 
which £275m is term loan and £125m is a revolving credit facility. £160m (€192m) of the new facility is available in Euros, reflecting 
the composition of the combined group. This financing arrangement became effective from 27 February 2014. The bank loan is 
unsecured and subject to two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net 
finance charges.
26 December 2013
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Contractual 
cash flows 
£m
6 months  
or less 
£m
6–12  
months 
£m
1–2  
years 
£m
2–5  
years 
£m
More than 
5 years 
£m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Unsecured bank loans 122.7 (129.5) (3.9) (3.9) (7.6) (114.1) –
Finance lease liabilities 6.7 (11.2) (0.4) (0.3) (0.6) (2.0) (7.9)
Trade and other payables 21.1 (21.1) (21.1) – – – –
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swap 1 0.95 (1.3) (0.1) (0.6) (0.5) (0.1) –
Interest rate swap 2 0.95 (1.3) (0.1) (0.6) (0.5) (0.1) –
152.4 (164.4) (25.6) (5.4) (9.2) (116.3) (7.9)
Cash Flow Hedges
The following table indicates the periods in which the discounted cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges 
are expected to occur. 114
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
22. Financial Instruments continued
1 January 2015
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Expected 
cash flows 
£m
6 months  
or less 
£m
6–12  
months 
£m
1–2  
years 
£m
2–5  
years 
£m
More than 
5 years 
£m
Interest rate swaps:
Swap 1 (0.6) (0.6) (0.3) (0.2) (0.1) – –
Swap 2 (0.6) (0.6) (0.3) (0.2) (0.1) – –
Swap 3 (0.5) (0.5) (0.1) (0.1) (0.2) (0.1) –
Swap 4 (0.5) (0.5) (0.1) (0.1) (0.2) (0.1) –
Swap 5 (0.25) (0.25) (0.05) (0.05) (0.1) (0.05) –
Swap 6 (0.25) (0.25) (0.05) (0.05) (0.1) (0.05) –
(2.7) (2.7) (0.9) (0.7) (0.8) (0.3) –
26 December 2013
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Expected 
cash flows 
£m
6 months  
or less 
£m
6–12  
months 
£m
1–2 
years 
£m
2–5 
years 
£m
More than 
5 years 
£m
Interest rate swaps:
Swap 1 (0.95) (0.95) (0.05) (0.4) (0.4) (0.1) –
Swap 2 (0.95) (0.95) (0.05) (0.4) (0.4) (0.1) –
(1.9) (1.9) (0.1) (0.8) (0.8) (0.2) –
It is expected that the expected cash flows will impact profit and loss when the cash flows occur.
Market Risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the 
Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and 
control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
Foreign Currency Risk
Following the acquisition of Cinema City the Group is subject to greater currency risk exposure. Wherever possible, overseas 
operations will fund their day-to-day working capital requirements in local currency with cash generated from operations, 
naturally hedging the currency risk exposure to the Group. Management will continually monitor the level of currency risk 
exposure, and consider hedging where appropriate. Currently the Group considers the currency risk on consolidation of the 
assets and liabilities of its foreign entities to be of low materiality and no hedging has been undertaken.
Interest Rate Risk
The Group’s policy is to manage its cost of borrowing by securing fixed interest rates on a portion of its term loan.
Whilst fixed-rate interest-bearing debt is not exposed to cash flow interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the Group to 
enjoy a reduction in borrowing costs in markets where rates are falling.
In addition, the fair value risk inherent in fixed-rate borrowing means that the Group is exposed to unplanned costs should debt 
be restructured or repaid early as part of the liquidity management process.
The Group uses interest rate swaps agreed with other parties to hedge a portion of its bank loans that have fixed interest rates. 
Interest rate swaps are measured at fair value, which have been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at 
prevailing interest rates.
The revolver loan, of which £44.0m (2013: £38.5m) was drawn down at the end of the period, is not hedged. As a result, there is 
no impact on the income statement relating to the hedged bank debt as a result of any changes in interest rates. At the period 
end the Group had six (2013 period end: two) interest rate swaps which hedged 50% (2013: 65%) of the Group’s variable rate 
unsecured term loan.  115
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
22. Financial Instruments continued
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments was:
Carrying amount
2014 2013
Fixed rates instruments
Financial liabilities (interest rate swap) (2.7) (1.9)
Financial liabilities (unsecured bank loans – hedged portion) (135.0) (55.0)
Finance lease liabilities (6.4) (6.7)
(144.1) (63.6)
Variable rate instruments
Financial liabilities (unsecured bank loans – unhedged portion) (172.3) (68.5)
£135m (2013: £55m) of the variable rate financial liability is hedged via the interest rate swaps with the balance attracting a 
variable interest rate. In 2014 the balance is the additional £128.3m term loan and the revolving facility. In 2013 the balance is the 
additional £30m term loan and the revolving facility.
Fair Value Sensitivity Analysis for Fixed Rate Instruments
The Group accounts for fixed-rate derivative financial instruments (interest rate swaps) at fair value. The gain or loss on 
remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement except where derivatives qualify for hedge 
accounting when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged. Hedge accounting was 
adopted from the year ended 27 December 2007 on the swap taken out in May 2007.
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates would have increased equity by £1.8m (2013: £1.2m) or decreased equity by £1.8m 
(2013: £1.2m) for each swap and would have increased or decreased profit or loss by £nil (2013: £nil). 
Cash Flow Sensitivity Analysis for Variable Rate Instruments
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit or loss by 
the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. The 
analysis is performed on the same basis for 2013.
Profit or loss Equity
Effect in GBP thousands
100 bp 
increase
100 bp 
decrease
100 bp 
increase
100 bp 
decrease
1 January 2015
Variable rate instruments (3,200) 3,200 (3,200) 3,200
Interest rate swap 1,400 (1,400) 1,400 (1,400)
Cash flow sensitivity (net) (1,800) 1,800 (1,800) 1,800
26 December 2013
Variable rate instruments (1,205) 1,205 (1,205) 1,205
Interest rate swap 589 (589) 589 (589)
Cash flow sensitivity (net) (616) 616 (616) 616
Fair Values
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial instruments that are 
carried in the financial statements.
Short-term debtors, creditors and cash and cash equivalents have been excluded from the following disclosures on the basis that 
their carrying amount is a reasonable approximation to fair value.
Carrying 
amount 
1 January 
2015 
£m
Fair value 
1 January 
2015 
£m
Carrying 
amount 
26 December 
2013 
£m
Fair value 
26 December 
2013 
£m
Unsecured bank loans 307.1 311.8 122.7 123.5
Finance lease liabilities 6.5 6.5 6.7 6.7
Interest rate swaps 2.7 2.7 1.9 1.9
316.3 321.0 131.3 132.1
The fair value of derivatives and borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing 
interest rates. The carrying amount of unsecured bank loans is stated net of debt issuance costs and the fair value is stated gross 
of debt issuance costs and is calculated using the market interest rates. 116
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
22. Financial Instruments continued
The difference between net carrying amount and estimated fair value reflects unrealised gains or losses inherent in the 
instruments based on valuations at 1 January 2015 and 26 December 2013. The volatile nature of the markets means that values 
at any subsequent date could be significantly different from the values reported above.
Fair Value Hierarchy
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method. The different levels have been defined 
as follows:
• Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
• Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the assets or liability, either directly 
(i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
• Level 3: inputs for the assets or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Level 1 
£m
Level 2 
£m
Level 3 
£m
Total 
£m
1 January 2015
Derivative financial instruments – 2.7 – 2.7
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – 313.6 – 313.6
26 December 2013
Derivative financial instruments – 1.9 – 1.9
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – 129.4 – 129.4
There have been no transfers between levels in 2014. No other financial instruments are held at fair value.
Capital Management
The capital structure of the Group consists of the following items:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 37.4 19.0
Bank loans 307.1 122.7
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 548.6 235.8
893.1 377.5
The Board of Directors constantly monitor the ongoing capital requirements of the business and have reviewed the current 
gearing ratio, being the ratio of bank debt to equity and consider it appropriate for the Group’s current circumstances. Ratios 
used in the monitoring of debt capital include the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net 
finance charges.
The Group’s objective when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market 
confidence and to sustain future development of the business, to provide returns for shareholders and to optimise the capital 
structure to reduce the cost of capital. The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as 
the return on capital, which the Group defines as total shareholders’ equity and the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders.
23. Operating Leases
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals commitments are as follows:
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Other 
£m
1 January 
2015
£m
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Other 
£m
26 December 
2013
£m
Less than one year 85.6 0.1 85.7 52.1 0.1 52.2
Between one and five years 324.3 0.3 324.6 215.8 0.5 216.3
More than five years 1,016.3 – 1,016.3 851.0 – 851.0
1,426.2 0.4 1,426.6 1,118.9 0.6 1,119.5
The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be received are £5.4m (2013: £6.1m). 117
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
24. Capital Commitments
Capital commitments at the end of the financial period for which no provision has been made:
1 January 
2015 
£m
26 December 
2013 
£m
Contracted 31.9 10.3
Capital commitments at the end of the current and preceding financial period relate to new sites.
25. Related Parties
The compensation of the Directors is as follows:
Salary and 
fees  
including 
bonus 
£000
Compensation  
for loss of
office 
£000
Pension 
contributions 
£000
Total 
£000
53 weeks ended 1 January 2015
Total compensation for Directors 2,341 89 252 2,682
Salary and 
fees  
including 
bonus 
£000
Compensation  
for loss of
office 
£000
Pension 
contributions 
£000
Total 
£000
52 weeks ended 26 December 2013
Total compensation for Directors 1,570 – 150 1,720
Share-based compensation benefit charges for Directors was £0.4m in 2013 (2013: £0.5m). Details of the highest paid Director 
can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 62.
Other Related Party Transactions
Digital Cinema Media Limited (“DCM”) is a joint venture between the Group and Odeon Cinemas Holdings Limited set up on 
10 July 2008. Revenue receivable from DCM in the 53 week period ending 1 January 2015 totalled £15.6m (2013: £14.2m) and as 
at 1 January 2015 £nil (2013: £nil) was due from DCM in respect of receivables. In addition the Group has a working capital loan 
outstanding from DCM of £0.5m (2013: £0.5m).
During the year the Group was charged expenses of £3.2m by companies under the ownership of Global City Holdings N.V. 
(“GCH”), considered a related party of Group as Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger are Directors of both groups (see Note 9).
Details of subsidiaries held by the Group can be found in Note 29.
26. Post Balance Sheet Events
On 31 January 2014, the Competition Commission published the report on their investigation into the Group’s acquisition of 
Picturehouse Cinemas in 2012. The Competition Commission ruled that the Group had to divest in cinemas in Aberdeen, Bury St 
Edmunds and Cambridge. The contract to operate the Belmont Picturehouse in Aberdeen transferred out of the Group in April 
2014, and the Abbeygate Picturehouse in Bury St Edmunds was sold in June 2014. As at the year end, the process of disposing 
a site in Cambridge was still ongoing. On 29 January 2015, the Group announced that Cineworld Cambridge had been sold to 
The Light cinema chain for cash consideration of £8.0m.  118
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Company Balance Sheet
at 1 January 2015
Note
1 January 
2015 
£m
1 January 
2015 
£m
26 December 
2013 
£m
26 December 
2013 
£m
Fixed assets
Investments 29 646.9 134.7
Current assets
Debtors 30 274.4 191.8
Cash at bank – –
274.4 191.8
Creditors: amount falling due within one year
Interest-bearing loans 31 (23.2) –
Other payables 32 (53.1) (90.7)
Bank overdraft (12.5) –
(88.8) (90.7)
Net current assets 185.6 101.1
Total assets less current liabilities 832.5 235.8
Creditors: amount falling due within one year
Interest-bearing loans 31 (283.9) –
Net assets 548.6 235.8
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 33 2.6 1.5
Share premium account 33 294.9 188.2
Merger reserve 33 207.3 –
Profit and loss account 33 43.8 46.1
Shareholders’ funds – equity 548.6 235.8
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 12 March 2015 and were signed on its behalf by:
Mooky Greidinger  Philip Bowcock
Director    Director 119
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Company Reconciliation of  
Movements in Shareholders’ Funds
for the Period Ended 1 January 2015
Note
53 week 
period ended 
1 January 
2015
£m
52 week 
period ended 
26 December 
2013
£m
Profit for the period 23.2 32.5
Dividends paid during the period 33 (26.9) (18.1)
Movements due to share-based compensation 33 1.4 1.2
Equity instruments issued 315.1 0.1
Net increase in shareholders’ funds 312.8 15.7
Opening shareholders’ funds 235.8 220.1
Closing shareholders’ funds 548.6 235.8 120
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
27. Accounting Policies
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation 
to the Company’s financial statements.
Basis of Preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and under the historical cost 
accounting rules.
Information regarding the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position is set out in the Chief Executive Officers’ Review on pages 18 to 25 and the Risks and Uncertainties 
section on pages 26 and 29. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described in the Chief Executive Officers’ Review on pages 18 to 25. In addition Note 22 to the financial statements includes the 
Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Going Concern
As highlighted in Note 22 to the financial statements, the Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its 
bank facilities which provides funding of £400m of which £275m is term loan and £125m is a revolving credit facility. £160m 
(€192m) of the facility is available in Euros, reflecting the composition of the combined Group. This financing arrangement 
became effective from 27 February 2014. The bank loan is unsecured and subject to two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA to net 
debt and the ratio of EBITDAR (pre-rent EBITDA) to net finance charges. As at the period end, £165m and €132m of the term loan 
plus £44m of the revolving facility were drawn down.
While the current economic conditions create uncertainty particularly over (a) the level of demand for the Group’s products; and 
(b) the availability of bank finance in the foreseeable future, the Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably 
possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facility, 
including compliance with the bank facility covenants. The Directors therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and 
loss account.
Under Financial Reporting Standard 1 the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the 
grounds that its cash flows are included within the consolidated financial statements of Cineworld Group plc.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances 
with entities which form part of the Cineworld Group where the Group controls 100% of the voting rights.
Investments
In the Company’s financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for any impairment 
in value.
Impairment
The Group evaluates its investments for financial impairment where events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount 
of such assets may not be fully recoverable. When such evaluations indicate that the carrying value of an asset exceeds its 
recoverable value, an impairment in value is recorded.
Deferred Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences 
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for 
taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required 
by FRS 19.
Classification of Financial Instruments Issued by the Company
Following the adoption of FRS 25, financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity (i.e. forming part of 
shareholders’ funds) only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions:
a) they include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial 
assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company; and
b) where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that 
includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be 
settled by the Company’s exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own 
equity instruments. 121
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
27. Accounting Policies continued
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so 
classified takes the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up 
share capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Share-Based Payment Transactions
The share options programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of options granted is 
recognised as an addition to fixed asset investments with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant 
date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of 
the options granted is measured using an evaluation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options 
were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares options that vest except 
where forfeiture is due only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Shares appreciation rights are also granted by the Company to employees. The fair value of the amount payable to the employee 
is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities. The fair value is initially measured at grant date and 
spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment. The fair value of the share 
appreciation rights is measured based on an option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which 
the instruments were granted. The liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date and any changes in 
fair value recognised in profit and loss spread equally over the vesting period.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it recognises an increase in the cost 
of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its subsidiary’s 
financial statements with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity. Amounts recharged to or reimbursed by 
the subsidiary are recognised as a reduction in the cost of investment in subsidiary.
Own Shares Held by Employee Benefit Trust (“EBT”)
Transactions of the Group sponsored EBT are included in the Group financial information. In particular, the trust’s purchase of 
shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
28. Staff Numbers and Costs
The Company pays no employees. Salaries of the Directors of the Company, including Non-Executive Directors, as well as 
the Company Secretary are recharged to the Company from its subsidiary Cineworld Cinemas Ltd. Total salaries paid to 
Non-Executive Directors were £478,000 (2013: £314,000). See pages 45 to 62 for further details of Directors’ emoluments.
29. Fixed Asset Investments
Company
Shares in 
Group 
undertakings 
£m
Balance at 26 December 2013 134.7
Additions 512.2
Balance at 1 January 2015 646.9
Net book value
At 26 December 2013 134,7
At 1 January 2015 646.9 122
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
29. Fixed Asset Investments continued
During the period the Company acquired Cinema City Holding B.V. for £510.6m, see Note 9. For details of the remaining £1.6m 
additions to investment see Note 33.
Country of incorporation Principal activity Class
% of  
shares held
Subsidiary undertakings
Directly Held
Augustus 1 Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cinema City Holding B.V. The Netherlands Holding company Ordinary 100
Cinema Finco 1 Limited Eire Financing company Ordinary 100
Cinema Finco 3 Limited Eire Financing company Ordinary 100
Cinema Finco 4 Limited Eire Financing company Ordinary 100
Indirectly Held
Augustus 2 Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cine-UK Limited England and Wales Cinema operation Ordinary 100
Cineworld Cinemas Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Cinemas Limited England and Wales Holding company and 
cinema operation
Ordinary
100
Cineworld Finance Limited England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Cineworld Estates Limited England and Wales Cinema property leasing Ordinary 100
Cineworld South East Cinemas Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Exhibition Limited England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Gallery Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company Ordinary 100
Gallery Cinemas Limited England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Slough Movie Centre Limited England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Adelphi-Carlton Limited Eire Cinema operation Ordinary 100
Cineworld Cinema Properties Limited England and Wales Property company Ordinary 100
Cineworld Elite Pictures Theatre 
(Nottingham) Limited
England and Wales Non-trading Ordinary
100
Classic Cinemas Limited England and Wales Retail services company Ordinary 100
Computicket Limited England and Wales Dormant Ordinary 100
Digital Cinema Media Limited England and Wales Screen Advertising Ordinary 50
Picturehouse Cinemas Limited (formerly 
City Screen Limited)
England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary
100
City Screen (Aberdeen) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Bath) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Brighton) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
CS (Brixton) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Cambridge) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Clapham) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen Developments Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
CS (Exeter) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
CS (Greenwich) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Liverpool) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
CS (Norwich) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Newman Online Limited England and Wales Software development 
and provider
Ordinary
100
City Screen (Oxford) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Southampton) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (SOA) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Stratford) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100 123
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
Country of incorporation Principal activity Class
% of  
shares held
Picturehouse Bookings Limited England and Wales Ticket booking operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (Virtual) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen (York) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Picturehouse Entertainment Limited England and Wales Film distribution Ordinary 100
City Screen (3D) Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
City Screen No. 2 Limited England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Our Screen Ltd England and Wales Cinema operations Ordinary 60
Cinema Finco 2 Eire Financing company Ordinary 100
Cinema City Holdco (Hungary) K.F.T. Hungary Financing company Ordinary 100
I.T. Planet Advertising Ltd Israel Dormant Ordinary 100
Norma Film Limited Israel Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Cinema Theatres Limited Israel Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Cinema-Phone Ltd Israel Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Forum Film Limited Israel Cinema operations Ordinary 100
IT Magyar Cinema Moziüzemeltető és 
Filmforgalmazó K.F.T.
Hungary Cinema operations Ordinary
100
Palace Cinemas Hungary K.F.T. Hungary Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Forum Hungary K.F.T. Hungary Cinema operations Ordinary 100
New Age Cinema K.F.T. Hungary Advertising Ordinary 100
Seracus Limited Cyprus Holding company Ordinary 100
Forum 40 Fundusz Inwestycjny Zamkniety Poland Holding company Ordinary 100
All Job CC sp. Zoo. SJ Poland Cinema operations Ordinary 100
CC Sp. Zoo Poland Fund general partner Ordinary 100
Cinema City Poland CC sp. Zoo SJ Poland Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Cinema City Poland spolka komandytowa 
sp. Zoo (Poland)
Poland Cinema operations Ordinary
100
Forum Film Poland CC Sp. Zoo SJ Poland Film distribution Ordinary 100
I.T. Poland Development 2003 CC sp. 
Zoo SJ
Poland Cinema operations Ordinary
100
New Age Media CC sp. Zoo SJ Poland Advertising Ordinary 100
Entertainment SCSp Luxembourg Holding company Ordinary 100
Film SCSp Luxembourg Holding company Ordinary 100
Hollywood SCSp Luxembourg Holding company Ordinary 100
Star SCSp Luxembourg Holding company Ordinary 100
Studio SCSp Luxembourg Holding company Ordinary 100
Cinema City Czech s.r.o. Czech Republic Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Forum Film Czech s.r.o. Czech Republic Film distribution Ordinary 100
Forum Home Entertainment Czech s.r.o. Czech Republic Film distribution Ordinary 100
Cinema City Slovakia s.r.o. Slovakia Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Forum Film Slovakia s.r.o. Slovakia Film distribution Ordinary 100
Cinema City Bulgaria EOOD Bulgaria Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Forum Film Bulgaria EOOD Bulgaria Film distribution Ordinary 100
Cinema City Romania SRL Romania Cinema operations Ordinary 100
Forum Film Romania SRL Romania Film distribution Ordinary 100
New Age Media Romania SRL Romania Advertising Ordinary 100 124
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
30. Debtors
1 January 
2015 
£m
26 December 
2013 
£m
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 274.4 191.8
31. Interest-Bearing Loans
1 January 
2015 
£m
26 December 
2013 
£m
Non-current liabilities
Unsecured bank loan, less issue costs of debt to be amortised 283.9 –
Current liabilities
Unsecured bank loans, less issue costs of debt to be amortised 23.2 –
For details of interest bearing loans see Note 17.
32. Creditors: Amounts Falling Due Within One Year
1 January 
2015 
£m
26 December 
2013 
£m
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 48.9 84.3
Accruals 4.2 6.4
53.1 90.7
33. Share Capital and Reserves
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
account 
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m
Profit and 
loss account 
£m
Total 
£m
At 26 December 2013 1.5 188.2 – 46.1 235.8
Profit for the period – – – 23.2 23.2
Dividends paid during the period – – – (26.9) (26.9)
Movements due to share-based compensation – – – 1.4 1.4
Equity instruments issued 1.1 106.7 207.3 – 315.1
At 1 January 2015 2.6 294.9 207.3 43.8 548.6
For details of share issue see Note 21.
Share premium is stated net of share issue costs.
Equity instruments granted of £1.4m represents the £1.6m fair value of share options granted to employees of subsidiary 
undertakings less £0.2m in respect of cash dividends paid to option holders during the year. There is a corresponding increase in 
investments, see Note 29.
This element of the profit and loss reserve is not distributable.
34. Share-Based Payments
See Note 19 to the Group financial statements. Shareholder Information
as at 1 January 2015
Directors
A H Bloom (Non-Executive Director and Chairman)
M Greidinger (Chief Executive Officer)
I Greidinger (Deputy Chief Executive Officer)
P Bowcock (Chief Financial Officer)
D Maloney (Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director)
M King  (Non-Executive Director)
S Rosenblum (Non-Executive Director)
A Samuelsson (Non-Executive Director)
R Senat  (Non-Executive Director)
P Williams (Non-Executive Director)
Head Office
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road
London W4 5PY
Telephone Number
020 8987 5000
Website
www.cineworldplc.com
Place of Incorporation
England and Wales
Company Number
Registered Number: 5212407
Registered Office
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road
Chiswick
London W4 5PY
Final Dividend – 2014
Announcement 12 March 2015
Ex Dividend 11 June 2015
Record Date 12 June 2015
Payment Date 9 July 2015
Auditor
KPMG LLP
15 Canada Square
London E14 5GL
Joint Brokers
JP Morgan Cazenove
25 Bank Street
Canary Wharf
London E14 5JP
Investec Bank plc
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
Legal Advisers to the Company
Olswang LLP
90 High Holborn
London WC1V 6XX Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Cineworld Group plc
Power Road Studios
114 Power Road
Chiswick
London W4 5PY
020 8987 5000
www.cineworldplc.com
