 A new generation  
of allergy treatments
Annual report and accounts 2014 Circassia in brief
Circassia is a specialty biopharmaceutical company  
focused on the development and commercialisation  
of a range of allergy immunotherapy product candidates. 
Established in 2006, the Company has used its proprietary 
ToleroMune
®
 technology to develop a new class of therapies, 
Synthetic Peptide Immuno-Regulatory Epitopes (SPIREs),  
which have the potential to revolutionise allergy treatment. 
The Company’s portfolio of SPIREs is designed to treat a broad 
range of seasonal and perennial allergies. The most advanced, 
Cat-SPIRE, targets cat allergy and is currently in phase III 
development. Three other product candidates, targeting house  
dust mite, ragweed and grass allergies, have completed clinical 
proof-of-concept phase IIb studies. 
 Contents
 Strategic report
01 Investment proposition
02 Chairman’s statement
03 Operational and financial highlights
04  Allergies are a serious global health issue
06 Current treatments are significantly inadequate
08 Our therapies could transform the market
10 Chief Executive’s review
11 Business model
12  Our technology
13 Our pipeline
14  Our portfolio
18 Strategy and progress against objectives
20 Strategic review
26 Financial review
28 Corporate social responsibility
30 Risks and risk management 
 
 Corporate governance
34 Board of Directors
36 Corporate governance
46 Remuneration Committee report
69 Directors’ report
72 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
73 Independent Auditors’ report
	 G ro up 	 finan c ia l 	 st at e m en t s
78 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
79 Consolidated statement of financial position
80 Parent Company statement of financial position
81 Group and parent Company statement of cash flows
82 Group statement of changes in equity
83 Parent Company statement of changes in equity
84 Notes to the financial statements
106 Glossary
108 Advisors and contact details Investment proposition
Allergic rhinitis is the world’s most prevalent chronic  
non-communicable disease. 
Allergic diseases affect around 1 billion people and can 
devastate sleep, work and social life. Today, allergy is greatly 
underserved by the pharmaceutical industry. 
Our SPIRE treatments target the cause of the underlying  
disease, not just the symptoms. 
SPIREs show long-lasting efficacy after a simple short  
course, have their strongest effect in those who suffer the  
worst symptoms, and have a superior overall safety and  
tolerability profile.
Current immunotherapy treatments can take several years. 
Our SPIREs offer the potential of a short course of treatment, 
patient-friendly administration and long-lasting efficacy. As a 
result, market research shows our SPIREs have a major 
commercial opportunity. 
 
See page 04
 
See page 06
 
See page 08
Allergies are a serious  
global health issue...
...current treatments are 
significantly inadequate...
...our therapies could 
transform the market.
$2.6bn
Our four lead SPIREs have a $2.6 billion 
peak sales opportunity in the US alone
1bn
People are affected by allergic 
diseases around the world
Our SPIREs have a 
favourable safety profile 
and long-lasting efficacy
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 01 Chairman’s statement
The last year has been a period of great transformation  
for Circassia. We successfully listed on the London  
Stock Exchange, raising over £200 million and completing 
the UK’s largest ever biotech Initial Public Offering  
(IPO) fundraising. During 2014, we have been putting  
this investment to work, undertaking studies in all our  
late-stage clinical programmes and building the team  
to support our anticipated first product launch. As a result, 
we are increasingly well positioned to capitalise on the 
significant potential value offered by our innovative  
allergy treatments. 
IPO strategy
Our IPO in early 2014 represents a step-change in our ambitions to 
bring our products to market, and follows several years of strong 
progress as a private company. Since Circassia was established in 
2006, we successfully completed a number of clinical studies and 
advanced our lead allergy treatment into phase III development, 
supported by £105 million of pre-IPO investment from highly 
supportive technology commercialisation and institutional investors. 
In late 2013, with our phase III programme ongoing, we received 
encouraging clinical results that presented the opportunity to 
accelerate our strategy and seek the significant funding needed  
to develop our late-stage clinical products in parallel, and also  
make the preparations to independently commercialise our first 
product in the US and key EU markets. This strategy was strongly 
supported by investors, and Circassia came to the public market  
in March 2014. 
2014: a year of progress
During the last year, we have continued to build the foundations 
required to bring our novel allergy treatments to the marketplace, 
and have made good progress towards our objective of creating a 
successful, self-sustaining specialty biopharmaceutical company. 
We completed a number of encouraging long-term follow-up 
studies, maintained the progress of our phase III study and  
gained important insights from our ragweed allergy programme 
that are informing our next steps. In addition, we have begun  
the commercial infrastructure build to support a successful  
product launch. 
Maintaining momentum
In the coming year, we plan to maintain the momentum established 
in 2014, both clinically and commercially. We anticipate advancing 
our grass allergy treatment towards phase III development and 
completing recruitment into our phase IIb field study in house  
dust mite allergy. We also plan to advance our commercial strategy, 
building our capabilities in key markets and exploring potential 
acquisitions that could accelerate our commercial ambitions. 
Overall, we are ensuring preparations are in place for 2016, when 
we anticipate results from the pivotal phase III study of our cat 
allergy treatment. 
Encouraging outlook
Looking to the longer term, the outlook is highly encouraging, 
with the marketplace undergoing positive developments after a 
long period of inactivity. Indeed, for much of the pharmaceutical 
industry, the allergy field had been of little strategic interest for many 
years. Whole allergen immunotherapy, which remains the mainstay 
of disease-modifying treatment, was first used over 100 years ago, 
and with no major breakthroughs in the intervening decades, the 
allergy field was poorly served. 
However, this situation is changing rapidly. During 2014, the  
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved three new sublingual 
whole allergen immunotherapies for grass and ragweed allergies, 
opening the market to new treatment approaches. With these 
products now promoted by significant industry players, the  
allergy market appears set to gather significant momentum.  
We believe this creates a major opportunity for Circassia, as  
our treatments have a number of significant potential benefits  
over existing products, including those launched recently.  
In the coming years, we intend to capitalise on these positive 
developments by bringing our own treatments to market 
and transforming Circassia into a successful specialty 
biopharmaceutical commercial business. 
Dr Francesco Granata
Chairman
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 02 Operational and financial highlights
Cat-SPIRE
― Completed recruitment for phase III registration study 
(CATALYST); on track to report results in H1 2016
― Initiated two-to-five year follow-on study (CP007A);  
138 subjects from CATALYST enrolled to date
― On track to complete paediatric safety study (CP009)  
in H2 2015
― Paediatric study plan agreed with FDA
HDM-SPIRE (House Dust Mite)
― Positive results from two-year follow-up phase IIb study 
(TH002A)
― Excellent safety profile demonstrated in controlled asthmatic 
study (TH004) 
― Completed observational study (TH003) to inform field  
study design
― Initiated large phase IIb field study (TH005) 
Grass-SPIRE
― Highly encouraging results from third season follow-up  
phase IIb study (TG002B) 
― Initiated phase II safety study in controlled asthmatics (TG004)
― Initiated observational study (TG003) to inform phase III 
design
Ragweed-SPIRE
― Symptoms reduced in phase IIb chamber study (TR006); 
results suggest optimal dose not tested
― Supportive subsequent field data from TR006; reduction in 
symptoms and rescue medication use 
― Follow-up study (TR006A) planned to assess effect of allergen 
exposure during further ragweed season
― Positive results from safety study (TR007) support inclusion of 
controlled asthmatics in future studies
― Additional phase IIb dose ranging study planned
Commercialisation progress
― Appointed Chief Commercial Officer; US subsidiary 
established 
― Building US and EU market access and medical affairs  
team to expand relationships with allergists
― Positive research with specialists, patients and payers in  
US and key EU markets
― US patent term extended for Cat-SPIRE, HDM-SPIRE and 
Grass-SPIRE; protection to at least 2030
Financial highlights
― Successful flotation on the London Stock Exchange raised 
£202.0 million (£192.4 million net) 
― Increased investment in research and development  
to £38.6 million (2013: £21.1 million)
― Loss for the year £35.1 million (2013: £20.0 million)
― Strong balance sheet with £186.6 million cash and deposits 
at 31 December 2014 (31 December 2013: £30.6 million)
5 x phase II
Studies completed across our development programmes in 2014
US  
operations
US subsidiary established and commercial  
team recruitment underway
£202m
Successful flotation on the London Stock  
Exchange raised £202.0 million (£192.4 million net):  
fully funded to bring lead product to market
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 03 In Europe, allergy is considered a public health 
pandemic. It affects over 150 million people, making  
it the continent’s most prevalent chronic disease.  
In the US, allergic disease including asthma is the 
fifth most prevalent chronic disease, and the third 
most common in children. Nasal allergies alone affect 
approximately 50 million Americans.
10-20
%
Allergic rhinitis affects 10 – 20%  
of the world’s population, making  
it the most prevalent chronic  
non-communicable disease
...the general public 
confronts huge direct 
and indirect costs 
with major effects on 
macroeconomics due 
to healthcare, loss 
of productivity and 
absenteeism...
EAACI Global Atlas of Allergy 2014
“
“
...I’m physically  
exhausted and I feel  
like I have a constant 
cold!
Cat allergy patient: GfK research 2014
“
“
Allergies are a serious  
global health issue...
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 04 Can’t work, can’t sleep, can’t function
Allergic diseases can cause long-term misery, affecting sleep, 
work and lifestyle. With 150 million Europeans ‘trapped’ by 
allergy, and even more affected in the US and elsewhere, 
the economic and social impacts are significant, and often 
overlooked. 
― In the US allergy has the greatest impact on work 
productivity of all medical conditions
― Approximately 10,000 children a day miss school in the  
US due to allergic rhinitis
― In Europe up to 20% of those with allergy have  
debilitating disease 
― Those with the most severe allergy are at risk of a potentially 
life-threatening asthma attack or anaphylaxis
Common symptoms of allergic conditions
― Blocked, itching, running nose
― Coughing
― Sneezing
― Itching, red, streaming eyes
― Swollen eyelids
― Itching mouth and throat
― Urticaria (itching, red skin)
Common allergies
Allergy is a hypersensitivity of the immune system leading to disease. Allergy can occur in almost 
every organ, but is most common in the skin and mucous membranes that form the boundary 
with the outside environment. Of the wide range of allergy-related conditions, allergic rhinitis and 
conjunctivitis are the most common, and often occur together. 
Cat allergy 
Cats are responsible for 
the sensitisation of over 50 
million Americans and 30-37 
million Europeans, making cat 
allergens the sixth and third 
most common cause of allergic 
sensitisation respectively. 
House dust mite allergy
Skin pricking tests show more 
people are sensitised to house 
dust mites in Europe and the  
US than any other allergen.  
In each region this equates to 
over 80 million people. 
...I feel sad and lonely  
and especially isolated...
Cat allergy patient: GfK research 2014
“
“
Ragweed allergy 
Ragweed allergy is a major 
problem in the US, where  
over 80 million people are 
sensitised to its pollen.  
In Europe, ragweed is 
spreading and in heavily 
infested areas of France 
and Italy up to 12% of the 
population are allergic to  
its pollen.
Grass allergy 
Grass pollens are a common 
cause of hay fever. In Europe 
and the US, grasses cause 
the greatest sensitisation of all 
seasonal allergens, affecting 
over 60 million and 80 million 
people respectively. 
Allergies cause chronic misery
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 05 Current treatments for patients with moderate or severe 
allergy are inadequate. Avoidance is difficult or impossible. 
Pharmacological treatments (antihistamines and corticosteroids) 
provide short-term symptom relief only, and are only partially 
effective. Whole allergen immunotherapy is the only treatment 
to address the underlying disease, but is lengthy and can have 
unpleasant side effects with the potential for anaphylaxis. 
Sublingual immunotherapy
― Allergen administered under the tongue
― Lengthy treatment
― Poor patient compliance
― Side effects are extremely common 
― Long-term treatment is costly
Current immunotherapies have inherent problems
Subcutaneous immunotherapy
― Allergen injected into skin
― Requires complicated dose escalation
― Treatment is lengthy 
― Potential for anaphylaxis
― Patient compliance is poor
3-5yrs
Subcutaneous immunotherapy requires 
multi-year treatment
65-85%
Adverse reactions to sublingual 
immunotherapy are extremely common
$9,000
Three years of daily sublingual  
immunotherapy is expensive
7%
Only 7% of patients complete three 
years of sublingual immunotherapy
“ Pollens... may be 
ubiquitous... so 
avoidance measures 
are impossible” 
   EAACI Global Atlas of Allergy 2014
...current treatments are 
significantly inadequate...
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 06 MicronJet
™
 administration
Our SPIRE allergy therapies can be delivered with the  
patient-friendly MicronJet
™
 system. This novel device is  
mounted on a standard syringe and allows simple intradermal 
administration via microscopic hollow crystals of pure silicon. 
MicronJet
™
 is approved for use in Europe and the US, providing 
consistent, patient-friendly, intradermal administration. 
Modern production
Our treatments are manufactured using modern synthetic 
pharmaceutical processes, unlike existing immunotherapies  
that rely on complex techniques to produce and process  
whole allergens. This gives us a number of benefits:
― Totally synthetic products
― Highly controllable processes
― Well characterised products
― Consistent quality
― Standardised doses
Targeting key allergies
Our SPIRE therapies are designed to treat some of the most 
common allergies:
― Cat-SPIRE targets cat allergy
― HDM-SPIRE is targeting house dust mite allergy
― Grass-SPIRE targets allergy to grass pollen
― Ragweed-SPIRE is targeting ragweed pollen allergy
― Birch-SPIRE targets allergy to birch pollen
― Japanese cedar-SPIRE is targeting allergy to  
Japanese cedar pollen
― Alternaria-SPIRE targets allergy to Alternaria mould
Making strong clinical progress
― Four programmes in phase II/III
― 22 studies complete
― Six studies ongoing
― 3,500 subjects in clinical studies
Our SPIREs are designed to revolutionise treatment
Our therapies: designed to transform therapy 
We are developing a totally new class of therapies, the Synthetic 
Peptide Immuno-Regulatory Epitopes (SPIREs). This new type of 
treatment is designed to build on the efficacy of whole allergen 
therapy while overcoming its drawbacks. SPIREs use a novel mix 
of small peptides to restore immunological balance and induce 
tolerance to naturally occurring allergens. Our research shows 
this approach offers major potential benefits compared with 
existing immunotherapies:
― Short, simple treatment
― Long-lasting efficacy 
― Strongest against worst symptoms
― Safety profile similar to placebo
― Patient-friendly MicronJet
™
 delivery
symptom
 
relief
Patient-
friendly 
MicronJet
™
 
delivery
Highly 
favourable 
safety
Short-
course 
therapy
Long-
lasting 
symptom 
relief
Simple, 
standardised 
doses
SPIRE  
benefits
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 07 ...our therapies could 
transform the market.
We’ve undertaken extensive research showing our new generation 
treatments have the potential to transform the marketplace and 
give us a major commercial opportunity. 
― >$500m US peak sales potential for Cat-SPIRE 
― $2.6bn US opportunity for our four lead products
― $2,600 pricing potential per Cat-SPIRE short course
100

3,500
100-strong sales force  
to initially target 3,500 
allergists in North America
Our territories:  
North America
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 08 Serving the underserved
Current treatments underserve many allergy patients. Of those 
offered immunotherapy by their specialist, the vast majority either 
decline or fail to complete treatment. Targeting this population would 
give us a major market opportunity, and allow allergists to maintain 
their patient relationships. Also targeting patients not currently 
offered immunotherapy would boost the opportunity further.
In the US, treating just 200,000 patients with Cat-SPIRE out of  
the more than 1 million who are currently not offered, decline or  
do not complete immunotherapy, could result in peak sales of  
over $500 million. 
Commercialisation strategy
Our strategy is to target the concentrated group of specialists who 
treat patients with moderate and severe allergies, giving us the 
opportunity to commercialise our products independently in key 
markets while licensing or forming partnerships elsewhere.
90

6,600
90-strong sales force to target 
high prescribers among 
6,600 allergists in Europe
License or partner 
in Japan and other 
key markets
Our territories:  
rest of world 
Our target 
We are targeting 
allergists and 
specialists who 
treat patients with 
moderate and 
severe allergies
Circassia’s target population in the USA for Cat-SPIRE
Secondary 
Circassia 
focus
Patients not 
offered IT
Primary 
Circassia 
focus
Patients 
declining IT
Secondary 
Circassia 
focus
Patients failing 
to complete IT
378,000
Of the 1 million who are offered 
whole allergen immunotherapy, 
less than half actually accept it
1m
Of the 1.3 million seeking help, 1 million 
are suitable for immunotherapy and are 
offered the existing treatment options 
1.3m
Of the 24 million cat-allergic individuals, 
1.3 million new patients consult an allergist 
every year about symptoms
24m people
Cat-allergic individuals in the United States
60,000
 Only 60,000 people of the 
378,000 who accept treatment 
actually complete the course
Our territories:  
Europe
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 09 Chief Executive’s review
2014 has been transformational for Circassia. In March, 
we raised over £200 million through a successful IPO, and 
now have the funds to accelerate our late-stage clinical 
portfolio and establish the infrastructure to independently 
commercialise our first next generation allergy treatment. 
During the year, we made good progress towards meeting 
these goals. We completed recruitment for our phase III 
Cat-SPIRE registration study, which remains on track to 
report in H1 2016, and completed five further clinical trials 
across our portfolio. We are committed to bringing our 
innovative allergy products to market, and during the year 
we began to build our commercial organisation. With the  
US allergy immunotherapy marketplace opening up to new 
treatment approaches, we are well positioned to exploit  
the growing interest in this poorly served field.
Advancing our portfolio
Our novel SPIRE treatments offer significant potential benefits 
compared with existing immunotherapies, in both seasonal and 
perennial allergies. During 2014, we made good clinical progress 
with our portfolio, completing studies across our development 
programmes. We also completed recruitment into our pivotal  
phase III CATALYST study, recruiting 19% more subjects than our 
initial minimum target, and extending the trial to Russia to support  
a potential future filing in this significant market. We have a further  
six clinical trials ongoing, and anticipate completing three of these 
by the end of this year, and our CATALYST study in the first half  
of 2016. 
Encouraging results
The results from the studies we completed in 2014 continued to 
confirm the potential of our short-course treatments to improve 
patients’ allergy symptoms. During the year, we received positive 
long-term data from two of our programmes. These showed 
ongoing efficacy in two-year and three-season follow-ups with our 
HDM-SPIRE and Grass-SPIRE treatments respectively, despite 
subjects not receiving any further doses. 
In December, we announced top-line chamber results from a 
Ragweed-SPIRE phase IIb study. The results suggested we 
may not yet have tested the optimal dose for this treatment, and 
a higher dose may be necessary to achieve greater symptom 
improvements. This conclusion was supported by encouraging 
field results from the same study. We intend to capitalise on these 
learnings by conducting a longer-term follow-up of these subjects 
in the field, and to use the insights we gain in the design of a dose 
ranging study, before moving Ragweed-SPIRE into phase III. 
Establishing our infrastructure
With our lead product on track to complete its registration study 
next year, we plan to file for marketing approval, dependent on 
the results, in the second half of 2016. Consequently, we have 
completed the manufacturing scale-up for commercial supply 
and begun marketing preparations to ensure a successful launch. 
We intend to commercialise our products independently in key 
markets, and to partner elsewhere, and during 2014 we made 
good progress in implementing this approach. We are recruiting 
medical science liaisons in the US and the five largest EU markets 
to establish links with allergists, opinion leaders and payers, and 
intend to complement this team with market access and marketing 
specialists, as we begin major global research to inform our core 
marketing plans. 
Robust financial position
Following our successful flotation in 2014, we have maintained 
a strong balance sheet and remain fully funded to complete our 
phase III study and bring our first innovative new allergy treatment 
to market. During the year, we accelerated the clinical development 
of our pipeline, and substantially expanded our R&D team to 
support this activity. As a result, our R&D investment increased 
significantly, reaching £38.6 million, up from £21.1 million the 
year before. With £186.6 million of cash and deposits at the end 
of the year, we are well positioned to continue investing in our 
development programmes to deliver on the promise of our unique 
product candidates. 
Positive outlook
During 2014, the allergy market continued to develop. In the US, 
the FDA approved a number of sublingual immunotherapies, which 
will be promoted by significant players Merck and Greer. This is 
an important opportunity to open the market to new treatment 
approaches, and provide renewed vigour to a field that has been 
largely ignored for many years. Both of these companies have 
announced robust pricing for their new products, which supports 
our research suggesting Circassia’s novel therapies have a major 
commercial opportunity. This positive outlook is further supported 
by a payer study we undertook during 2014. The results show 
pricing for Cat-SPIRE may be greater than the $2,600 per course 
indicated in our previous research, which suggested a peak sales 
opportunity of over $500 million for the product in the US alone. 
Following a year of strong progress in 2014, we look forward to 
continuing our positive momentum in the year ahead. We plan to 
complete three clinical studies to support phase III programmes 
for Cat-SPIRE and Grass-SPIRE, to fully recruit subjects for our 
HDM-SPIRE field study and to advance Ragweed-SPIRE towards 
phase III. At the same time, we intend to establish the foundations 
of a strong commercial team to prepare for our first product launch. 
With the allergy market entering an exciting period, the outlook is 
extremely encouraging. 
Steve Harris
Chief Executive
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 10 Business model
Our management team has a proven track record of developing 
successful biopharmaceutical businesses. We leverage the team’s 
experience to manage an efficient outsourced business model.  
This allows us to retain key functions in-house, such as strategy, 
intellectual property, clinical study design, regulatory affairs and 
commercialisation, while also drawing on third-party expertise 
by outsourcing non-core activities to well-established contract 
research organisations and pharmaceutical manufacturers.  
We are currently establishing our commercial organisation to sell  
our products directly in key markets, while partnering elsewhere, 
and as part of this process may acquire appropriate infrastructure 
and complementary products. 
Circassia 
development
Circassia
Circassia 
commercialisation
Manufacturing 
partners
Commercial 
collaborations
Our global partnership network
―  InVentiv Health, Quintiles and  
Pharm-Olam International  
for clinical studies;
― Bachem for pharmaceutical 
ingredient production, Patheon 
for lyophilisation fill-finish and 
Nova Laboratories for formulation 
services for clinical studies;
― Adiga Life Sciences (our 50/50 
joint venture with McMaster 
University) for epitope discovery 
and mechanistic clinical studies;
― Aptuit and Sequani for toxicology 
services; 
― NanoPass for production and 
licensing to us the MicronJet
™
 
delivery device.
Circassia  
development
― Management
― Study design
― Regulatory
― CMC
Circassia
― Strategy
― Technology
― IP
Circassia 
commercialisation
― USA
― Key EU markets
Manufacturing  
partners
― Clinical supplies
― Commercial 
production
Development 
partners
― CROs
― Pre-clinical 
testing
Commercial 
collaborations
― License/partner 
in rest of world
Development 
partners
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 11 Naïve T cell
MHC-II
Th2
Inhibits Th2 cells
Inhibits Th1 cells
Antigen 
presenting cell
Naïve T cell
SPIREs
Differentiation into T-regulatory cells
Histamine
Inhibits early-phase response
eg sneezing, runny nose, itchy eyes
Inhibits late-phase response
eg prolonged cough, wheezing/breathing 
difficulties, blocked nose
Mast cell
Direct and indirect inhibition of mast cells
1
4
3
4
5
2
T-reg
Th1
Our technology
Our T oleroMune
®
 technology is a unique 
platform designed to discover the next 
generation of allergy treatments.
Rather than using whole allergens as treatments, ToleroMune
®
 technology 
identifies short peptide epitopes from sequenced allergens that can stimulate a 
T-cell response. ToleroMune
®
 specifically selects novel mixtures of these peptides 
to induce rapid immune tolerance, with a short course of treatment of four or 
eight injections over 12-14 weeks. The peptides are manufactured synthetically 
rather than extracted from whole allergens, and as a result this new class of 
treatment is called Synthetic Peptide Immuno-Regulatory Epitopes, or SPIREs.
T-cell epitopes are selected from sequenced 
whole allergens. Final products are vials of 
room-temperature stable, lyophilised mix of 
peptides for intradermal administration
Mechanism of action model
1  SPIREs bind to antigen  
presenting cells
2  This stimulates naïve T cells to 
differentiate into regulatory T cells  
(T-reg cells), which have an inhibitory 
effect on various cells involved in 
triggering the allergic response
3  T-reg cells inhibit mast cells, stopping 
histamine from being released and 
thereby effectively blocking the 
inflammatory cascade that leads to 
the early-phase allergic response 
characterised by sneezing, running nose 
and itching eyes
4  T-reg cells also have inhibitory effects 
on T-helper cells (Th1 and Th2), which 
stop them from secreting inflammatory 
molecules that irritate the lungs and 
airways, leading to coughing, mucus 
secretion and breathing difficulties  
(i.e. the late-phase response)
5  SPIREs do not cross-link IgE antibodies 
on mast cells, avoiding the need to 
escalate doses over an extended period
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 12 We are developing a range of innovative SPIRE 
treatments, targeting some of the most common 
allergies. We currently have four late-stage clinical 
development programmes, with three further 
products progressing towards the clinic.
Product Research Pre-clinical Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3
Our pipeline
Cat–SPIRE
Birch–SPIRE
Alternaria–SPIRE
Japanese cedar–SPIRE
House Dust Mite–SPIRE
Grass–SPIRE
Ragweed–SPIRE
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 13 Our portfolio
Cat allergy
Cat allergy, one of the most 
common allergies, is triggered 
by allergens found in cat saliva, 
notably the protein Fel d 1, 
which cats spread over their 
bodies when they groom 
themselves. In Europe and the 
US, between 8% and 17% of 
the population are sensitised 
to the proteins in cat saliva, 
urine and skin flakes (dander) 
that are responsible for allergic 
reactions. These allergens are 
widespread in the environment 
and therefore difficult to avoid. 
Cat allergy is a perennial 
condition that reduces 
sufferers’ quality of life and 
impacts social lives, preventing 
visits to friends and relatives 
with cats. As cat allergen is 
present in many public places 
it causes problems in schools 
and in the workplace.
Cat-SPIRE
Circassia’s novel product 
candidate Cat-SPIRE contains 
seven synthetically produced 
peptides identified from 
Fel d 1, which is the main 
allergen responsible for allergy 
to cats. Cat-SPIRE has 
successfully completed a 
number of phase II studies, 
and achieved impressive 
results. The studies showed 
that a short course of 
treatment with Cat-SPIRE 
substantially reduced patients’ 
symptoms. In a long-term 
follow-up study, patients’ 
symptoms remained greatly 
improved two years after the 
start of the study, despite no 
further treatment after the initial 
four-dose, 12-week course of 
Cat-SPIRE. Cat-SPIRE has 
demonstrated a favourable 
safety profile and is currently in 
a pivotal phase III trial, which is 
fully recruited and due to 
report in H1 2016.
83-90m
Population sensitised to cat allergens  
in the US and Europe
Our seven innovative treatments 
currently in development have the 
potential to revolutionise allergy 
therapy, and transform the lives 
of millions of sufferers. 
Cat-SPIRE  
for cat allergy
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 14 House Dust Mite (HDM) 
allergy
In Europe and the United 
States, more people are 
sensitised to house dust  
mites than any other common 
allergen. House dust mites are 
small translucent organisms 
belonging to the arachnid 
class. They are found globally 
in mattresses, pillows, sofas 
and carpets where they can 
reach a constant source of 
food (human skin scales)  
and humidity is high enough  
to permit their survival. 
Throughout their lifetime of 
approximately three months, 
house dust mites produce 
around 2,000 faecal pellets, 
each containing digestive 
enzymes and other proteins. 
The allergens found in the 
faecal pellets play a major part 
in the development of allergic 
asthma, rhinoconjunctivitis and 
eczema. In Europe and the 
US, between 22% and 28% of 
the population are sensitised 
to the allergens found in house 
dust mite faeces. House dust 
mite allergy is a perennial 
condition and can have a 
significant impact on sufferers’ 
quality of life.
HDM-SPIRE
Circassia’s novel product 
candidate HDM-SPIRE 
contains seven synthetically 
produced peptides identified 
from the key allergens found in 
house dust mite faecal pellets. 
It is designed to generate a 
similar frequency of T-cell 
response to that generated  
by whole house dust mite 
allergen. HDM-SPIRE has 
achieved positive results  
in a phase IIb clinical study, 
significantly reducing  
patients’ allergic reactions 
while demonstrating a 
favourable safety profile.  
A two-year follow-up  
study also demonstrated 
encouraging trends that 
suggest HDM-SPIRE  
has a long-lasting effect  
with no further injections. 
Building on the encouraging 
data generated from the  
HDM-SPIRE clinical 
programme to date, Circassia 
has initiated a phase IIb field 
study in 660 subjects.
168m
Population sensitised to house dust mite allergens  
in the US and Europe
HDM-SPIRE 
for house dust mite allergy
Grass allergy
Grass allergy, a common 
cause of hay fever, is extremely 
prevalent. In Europe and 
the US, 17% – 27% of the 
population are sensitised to 
grass pollen allergens. Grass 
pollen allergens are universally 
recognised as a major cause 
of allergic diseases in  
humans, including asthma, 
allergic rhinoconjunctivitis  
and dermatitis. Grass allergy  
is a seasonal condition  
and can debilitate sufferers 
during the months when 
pollen is released, resulting in 
significant healthcare costs, 
workplace/school absences 
and the inability to spend  
time outdoors.
Grass-SPIRE
Circassia’s novel product 
candidate Grass-SPIRE 
contains a mixture of seven 
peptides designed to generate 
a similar frequency of T-cell 
response to that generated 
by whole grass allergen. The 
product candidate contains 
epitopes derived from Rye, 
Timothy and Bermuda grass, 
and these epitopes are 
conserved in other grasses, 
including Velvet, Orchard, 
Kentucky blue and Canary 
grass. In a phase IIb clinical 
study, a short course of Grass-
SPIRE therapy demonstrated 
a significant improvement 
in symptoms at the end of 
the season compared with 
placebo. Efficacy was  
also demonstrated after a 
second grass season, and in 
patients who were followed 
over three consecutive pollen 
seasons the initial treatment 
effect was maintained despite 
no further doses.
147m
Population sensitised to grass pollen  
in the US and Europe
Grass-SPIRE 
for grass allergy
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 15 Our portfolio continued
Birch allergy
Birch trees (Betula verrucosa) 
are widespread across 
the northern hemisphere, 
particularly in Northern Europe, 
and approximately 6% of  
the European population  
are sensitised to birch pollen. 
Bet v 1 is the major birch 
allergen, and is highly cross-
reactive with many plant 
foods. Birch allergy sufferers 
also suffer from Oral Allergy 
Syndrome (OAS) or Pollen 
Food Syndrome (PFS), and 
the allergen can trigger oral 
symptoms such as swelling or 
itching of the lips, mouth and 
throat when people eat certain 
fresh fruits or raw vegetables. 
Birch-SPIRE
Circassia is evaluating a novel 
product candidate for the 
treatment of birch allergy, 
which is currently in pre-clinical 
development. The first clinical 
study is planned to begin in  
H2 2015. 
22m
Population sensitised to birch pollen in Europe
Birch-SPIRE 
for birch allergy
Ragweed allergy
“Ragweed” refers to a group 
of approximately 40 species 
of annual weed plants most 
of which are native to North 
America. The two species 
most closely associated 
with allergy and asthmatic 
symptoms are short ragweed 
(Ambrosia artemisiifolia) and 
giant ragweed (Ambrosia 
trifida), although the latter is 
much less abundant. Allergy to 
ragweed pollen is widespread 
in the United States, where 
approximately 26% of the 
population are sensitised to 
the allergen, and is commonly 
considered a form of hay 
fever. Although the prevalence 
is lower in Europe, ragweed 
allergy is affecting a growing 
proportion of the population. 
The ragweed season begins in 
mid-August and is a significant 
problem for people allergic to 
its pollen.
Ragweed-SPIRE
Circassia’s novel product 
candidate Ragweed-SPIRE 
contains seven synthetically 
produced peptides identified 
from the key allergen found 
in short ragweed pollen. It is 
designed to generate a similar 
frequency of T-cell response 
to that generated by whole 
ragweed allergen. In a large 
phase IIb study, patients 
with more severe symptoms 
who received higher-dose 
treatment had improved 
symptoms following just eight 
doses of Ragweed-SPIRE. In 
a second phase IIb chamber 
study, Ragweed-SPIRE 
demonstrated a clear dose 
response, with the higher dose 
improving subjects’ symptoms, 
although the outcome 
appeared significantly 
influenced by a marked 
placebo effect that was  
greater than in similar  
subjects in the earlier study.
82m
Population sensitised to ragweed pollen in the US
Ragweed-SPIRE 
for ragweed allergy
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 16 Alternaria allergy
Alternaria alternata 
(Ascomycete fungi) is one 
of the most common fungi 
associated with allergy in 
humans. It is ubiquitous in the 
environment and a natural 
part of fungal flora almost 
everywhere. Alternaria can 
be found in soils, corn silage, 
rotten wood, compost, bird 
nests and various forest plants 
and it is frequently found on 
water condensed on window 
frames. In Europe and the US, 
between 3% and 13% of the 
population are sensitised to 
the allergen.
Alternaria-SPIRE
Alt a 1 is the major allergen 
responsible for allergy to 
Alternaria. Circassia is 
evaluating a novel product 
candidate for the treatment 
of Alternaria allergy, which is 
currently in pre-clinical studies.
52m
Population sensitised to Alternaria mould  
in the US and Europe
Alternaria-SPIRE 
for Alternaria allergy
Japanese cedar allergy
Pollen from the Japanese 
cedar tree (Cryptomeria 
japonica) is the cause of one 
of the most common allergic 
diseases in Japan. From 
1949 to 1970, large numbers 
of fast growing Japanese 
cedar trees were planted 
for use in the construction 
industry, and planted 
Japanese cedar forests 
account for approximately 
12% of the country’s total area 
(45,000km
2
). It is estimated 
that 56% of the Japanese 
population is sensitised to 
Japanese cedar, and during 
the pollen season weather 
forecasts typically provide 
information on the pollen count 
and sufferers wear masks and 
eyewear to reduce exposure to 
the allergen.
Japanese cedar-SPIRE
Cry j 1 and Cry j 2 are the 
main allergens responsible 
for allergy to Japanese cedar. 
Circassia is currently evaluating 
a novel product candidate for 
the treatment of Japanese 
cedar allergy, which is currently 
in pre-clinical studies.
71m
Population sensitised to Japanese cedar pollen in Japan
Japanese cedar-SPIRE 
for Japanese cedar allergy
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 17 Strategy and progress against objectives
Strategic objectives
Leverage our ToleroMune
®
 
technology to expand our portfolio  
of development programmes
We believe that we can leverage our 
ToleroMune
®
 technology to expand our 
portfolio of product candidates, both 
in the field of allergy as well as immune 
disorders more generally. We also have 
the opportunity to leverage our broader 
expertise in allergy and immunology to 
enhance our pipeline, such as through  
in-licensing or the acquisition of 
complementary product candidates  
or technologies. 
Maintain and strengthen our 
intellectual property portfolio
Our patent portfolio provides broad 
effective protection for our technology and 
pipeline to at least 2030 in the US and 
2028 in Europe, with potential significant 
further patent extensions available 
post-approval. We intend to continue 
to leverage this protection to develop 
and commercialise our novel product 
candidates. We will also continue to file 
new patent applications and expand and 
strengthen our wider intellectual property 
portfolio, including through potential  
in-licensing and acquisition.
Achieving our strategic objectives involves 
risks and uncertainties, which are detailed 
in the section entitled ‘Risks and risk 
management’.
Independently commercialise our 
products in North America and major 
EU markets
We have retained full global 
commercialisation rights for all of our 
product candidates and intend to establish 
our own sales and marketing capabilities 
in North America and major EU markets, 
initially focusing on allergists. We believe 
the allergist population is sufficiently 
concentrated to enable us to commercialise 
products effectively with a specialist sales 
and marketing group. We are also exploring 
additional options for commercialisation, 
including acquiring companies that have 
appropriate infrastructure. 
Establish commercial partnerships  
in other regions of the world
In other markets, such as Japan, we intend 
to commercialise our products through 
partnerships rather than establishing our 
own dedicated infrastructure. We have a 
number of options to achieve this, including 
out-licensing commercialisation rights 
or collaborating with regional or global 
pharmaceutical companies. 
Complete the clinical development  
of our innovative product candidates
We are focused on completing the clinical 
development of our new generation of 
allergy treatments. Cat-SPIRE is in an 
ongoing, fully recruited phase III registration 
study, and we expect to have the results 
available in H1 2016. Subject to the 
results of this study, we intend to submit 
applications for marketing approval for  
Cat-SPIRE to the FDA, Health Canada  
and the EMA later the same year. 
In parallel, we intend to complete the 
development of our other late-stage product 
candidates, HDM-SPIRE, Ragweed-
SPIRE and Grass-SPIRE, which have each 
demonstrated clinical proof-of-concept in 
phase IIb studies. We expect that phase 
III data for Grass-SPIRE will be available 
in 2017 , and for HDM-SPIRE in 2019. 
For Ragweed-SPIRE, we are planning to 
complete a confirmatory dose ranging 
study, before moving to phase III. 
Circassia’s strategy is to build a successful biopharmaceutical 
company with a strong pipeline of product candidates, 
and a broad and balanced portfolio of innovative products 
independently commercialised in the US and key European 
markets and partnered in other regions. 
By establishing or acquiring the relatively modest 
infrastructure required to target specialists in the US and 
main European markets, we will also have the opportunity 
to license or acquire complementary products that we 
can commercialise by leveraging the same infrastructure, 
completing our transformation into a successful specialty 
biopharmaceutical business. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 18 Progress in 2014
Commercialisation progress
We appointed a Chief Commercial Officer 
and established our US subsidiary. We are 
recruiting medical science liaisons in the 
US and Europe, and plan to strengthen 
the marketing and market access team in 
the coming months. We also completed 
successful market research with allergists, 
payers and patients in the US and EU. 
Commercial partnership progress 
We plan to enter discussions with potential 
partners after reporting our Cat-SPIRE 
phase III results, to maximise value. These 
will cover the commercialisation of our 
product candidates in a wide range of 
territories around the world. 
ToleroMune
®
 progress
We continued to advance the three 
earlier-stage pre-clinical products we have 
developed with our unique technology.  
We also progressed a number of studies to 
help further leverage the platform, exploring 
novel biomarkers and immunological 
mechanisms.
Intellectual property progress
We extended protection in the US to 2030 
for Cat-SPIRE, HDM-SPIRE and Grass-
SPIRE through patent term adjustments. 
During 2014, we also had 13 new patents 
granted and completed an additional six 
filings in key territories.
Cat-SPIRE progress
By the end of 2014 we had successfully 
completed recruitment for our pivotal  
phase III study, extended the trial to support 
a potential filing in Russia and initiated  
a two-to-five year follow-up study of the  
phase III subjects. 
HDM-SPIRE progress
We reported positive results from both  
a phase IIb two-year follow-up study and 
a safety study in controlled asthmatics. 
We also successfully completed an 
observational field study and started a large 
multi-centre field trial in North America, 
South Africa and Europe.
Grass-SPIRE progress
We announced highly encouraging results 
from a three-season follow-up phase IIb 
study. We also initiated a safety study in 
controlled asthmatics and an observational 
study to monitor subjects’ allergy symptoms 
and rescue medication use during the 
pollen season. 
Ragweed-SPIRE progress
We reported top-line results from a phase 
IIb study, and based on the full dataset plan 
to undertake a further dose ranging study  
to identify the optimal regimen for phase 
III. We also completed a successful safety 
study in controlled asthmatics. 
During 2014, we made significant 
progress in advancing our strategy, 
with a clear focus on accelerating 
the clinical development of our 
portfolio of innovative SPIRE 
allergy treatments. In parallel, we 
successfully completed our IPO 
on the London Stock Exchange to 
raise the significant funds required 
to support the development of 
our pipeline and establish the 
infrastructure to commercialise  
our specialist therapies. 
Deliver the pipeline
Market novel products
Build broad and  
balanced portfolio
Clinical trials in over 3,500 
subjects with 22 studies 
complete and six ongoing
Unique ToleroMune
®
 technology 
with four late-stage clinical products 
and three pre-clinical programmes
Independently commercialise 
products in North America and 
major EU markets; commercial 
partnerships in other regions
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 19 Strategic review
Circassia’s overarching objective is to build a successful 
biopharmaceutical company with a strong pipeline of 
treatments in development and a broad, balanced portfolio 
of innovative marketed products that are commercialised 
independently in the US and key European markets and 
partnered in other regions. 
During 2014, we made good progress towards this 
objective. We advanced our clinical programmes, 
progressed our earlier-stage pre-clinical candidates 
and continued to lay the foundations for the successful 
commercialisation of our next generation allergy 
treatments. Over the next three years, we intend to 
deliver against each element of our strategy to transform 
Circassia into a financially self-sustaining specialty 
biopharmaceutical business. 
Clinical progress
Cat-SPIRE: phase III fully recruited; two-to-five year  
follow-up initiated; paediatric safety study progressing
Cat-SPIRE is Circassia’s lead product candidate. This innovative 
cat allergy treatment has achieved impressive clinical results 
to date, with a short course of four doses given over 12 weeks 
reducing allergy symptoms over a two-year period without  
further dosing. Cat-SPIRE is currently undergoing phase III testing 
in a single pivotal field trial, conducted under the name CATALYST, 
in subjects aged 12–65 years with moderate to severe allergy 
symptoms. By the end of 2014, we had completed recruitment  
into this double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled, multi-
centre study, enrolling 1,409 subjects, 19% above the minimum 
target. During the year, we extended CATALYST to include Russia, 
where we recruited 91 subjects to support a potential regulatory 
filing in this significant market. The phase III study is currently 
ongoing in centres across North America, Europe and Russia, 
where it is evaluating a single and two sequential short courses of 
Cat-SPIRE, each of four doses administered over 12 weeks. With 
the primary endpoint assessing the effect on symptom scores 
and rescue medication use one year after the start of treatment, 
CATALYST remains on track to report in H1 2016, and subject to 
the results, we plan to file for marketing approval in key markets 
later the same year. 
In the first half of 2014, we initiated a long-term study (CP007A) 
to follow-up subjects from the CATALYST trial. This follow-on is 
designed to assess the ongoing efficacy of Cat-SPIRE without 
subjects receiving any further doses, and will record symptom 
scores and use of rescue medication annually for up to five years 
after the start of treatment in the initial phase III study. To date we 
have enrolled 138 subjects who have completed the CATALYST  
final one-year assessment. 
We have also made progress with our Cat-SPIRE paediatric 
development plan. In Europe, our paediatric safety study (CP009) 
will enrol at least 12 subjects in two groups, and the first, aged  
9-12 years old (n=8), is now recruited, and we anticipate 
completing the study in H2 2015. In the US, the FDA has approved 
our initial paediatric study plan, which, in line with the usual 
regulatory process, will await product approval for finalisation. 
HDM-SPIRE: positive two-year follow-up and asthmatic 
safety results; large phase IIb study initiated
HDM-SPIRE is Circassia’s innovative treatment for house dust 
mite allergy. In an earlier proof-of-concept phase IIb trial (TH002), 
subjects who received a short course of four doses of HDM-
SPIRE over 12 weeks had a significant improvement in their 
allergy symptoms compared with placebo a year after the start of 
treatment (p=0.02). In June 2014, we announced the completion 
of a two-year follow-up (TH002A) in 72 of these subjects, which 
assessed the ongoing effect of treatment without further doses 
of HDM-SPIRE. The results demonstrated persistent symptom 
reduction compared with placebo two years after the start of 
treatment, which was equivalent to that achieved after one  
year in the same subjects. The results also showed a greater  
effect in those with more severe symptoms, as has been seen  
in other SPIRE studies. This finding is important because research 
shows this group is more likely to seek treatment due to the  
impact of their allergy. 
1,409 
subjects
Cat-SPIRE phase III recruitment completed with  
19% more subjects than minimum target
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 20 During 2014, we also successfully completed two studies to  
inform the design of a large HDM-SPIRE phase IIb field trial.  
The first, an observational field study (TH003), enrolled 109 
subjects with house dust mite allergy and monitored them  
over six weeks to determine the most relevant symptoms for 
assessment, the optimal duration for recording symptoms and 
screening measures to identify appropriate subjects. The second 
study (TH004) was a phase II double-blind, placebo-controlled 
safety trial in 30 controlled asthmatics, which demonstrated an 
excellent safety profile for HDM-SPIRE. 
These studies enabled the initiation of a large phase IIb field 
study (TH005) in Q3 2014, which includes enrolment of controlled 
asthmatic subjects. This randomised, double-blind, placebo-
controlled study will enrol 660 subjects aged 18–65 years old in 
North America, Europe and South Africa, and will compare the 
optimal short course of treatment from the previous phase IIb trial, 
a double course and a short course of higher dose HDM-SPIRE. 
Currently, the study has enrolled 103 subjects. 
Grass-SPIRE: highly encouraging results from three-
season follow-up; two support studies initiated
Grass-SPIRE is Circassia’s novel product candidate for the 
treatment of grass pollen allergy, which is a common cause of 
hay fever. Previously, in a phase IIb clinical proof-of-concept study 
(TG002) in 282 subjects, the optimal short course of Grass-SPIRE 
administered before the grass pollen season significantly reduced 
subjects’ symptoms compared with placebo at the end of the 
season (p=0.035). 
In November 2014, we announced positive results from a follow-up 
study (TG002B) that enrolled 85 subjects from the original proof-
of-concept trial. In the phase IIb follow-up, subjects who received 
two different Grass-SPIRE regimens had a continued reduction in 
allergy symptoms three pollen seasons after receiving treatment. In 
those who returned for assessment after both the second and third 
seasons, their symptom improvement was statistically significant 
compared with placebo, despite the small sample size and no 
further dosing over the 30 month period. 
During 2014, we initiated two clinical studies to support the  
design of our Grass-SPIRE phase III trial, which remains on  
track to begin in H1 2016. The first of these studies (TG004) is in 
controlled asthmatics, and will evaluate the safety and tolerability  
of two Grass-SPIRE regimens. The study is now fully recruited  
with 54 subjects enrolled. The results are anticipated in H1 2015, 
which if positive will allow the inclusion of subjects with controlled 
asthma into the phase III trial. The second study is also fully 
recruited, with 108 subjects enrolled, and we expect to receive the 
results in the first half of 2015. This observational study will inform 
the design of the phase III trial, and is monitoring the symptoms 
and rescue medication use of grass allergy sufferers during the 
pollen season. 
Highly encouraging three-season follow-up
In the phase IIb follow-up, subjects who received 
two different Grass-SPIRE regimens had a 
continued reduction in allergy symptoms when 
assessed in an environmental chamber three 
pollen seasons after receiving treatment
In 2014 we started a large 
HDM-SPIRE field study 
in North America, Europe 
and South Africa
‘
‘
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 21 Strategic review continued
Ragweed-SPIRE: phase IIb study completed;  
successful controlled asthmatic safety study
Circassia’s novel product candidate Ragweed-SPIRE is designed 
to treat ragweed pollen allergy. In an earlier proof-of-concept phase 
IIb trial (TR002) conducted in 2011, subjects with more severe 
symptoms who received eight higher doses of Ragweed-SPIRE 
over 14 weeks had a significant improvement in their allergy 
symptoms compared with placebo (p=0.04). 
In December 2014, we announced top-line results from a further 
phase IIb chamber study (TR006) that compared this higher-dose 
regimen with two lower-dose courses of Ragweed-SPIRE. In this 
study, a marked placebo effect, which was greater than that seen 
in the earlier trial, appeared to influence the outcome, and although 
the higher-dose regimen achieved a robust reduction in subjects’ 
allergy symptoms this did not reach significance compared with 
placebo (p=0.149). The top-line results also indicated a dose 
response effect consistent with the treatment having a positive 
effect on symptoms, and suggesting that a higher dose than  
those tested to date may have greater efficacy. 
Subsequently, we have received full results from the study, 
including data on symptom improvement and rescue medication 
use measured in the field during the ragweed pollen season.  
These field results show a treatment effect consistent with that 
observed in the chamber setting. Similarly, the higher-dose 
regimen performed better than the lower doses, and improved 
combined scores of symptoms and rescue medication use by  
33% compared with placebo, which approached statistical 
significance (p=0.09). We have used these data and the results 
from the earlier phase IIb study to inform the next steps for 
Ragweed-SPIRE (see below).
At the end of 2014, we also completed a phase II safety  
study (TR007) of Ragweed-SPIRE in controlled asthmatics.  
The results demonstrated a positive safety and tolerability profile, 
and will support the inclusion of subjects with controlled asthma  
in future studies. 
Ragweed-SPIRE: next steps underway
Our first phase IIb chamber study undertaken in 2011 indicated 
that higher doses of Ragweed-SPIRE produced a greater 
response. The data from our most recent phase IIb study continue 
to support this observation, and also suggest that the doses tested 
to date may not have achieved the peak response. As a result, we 
intend to conduct an additional phase II dose ranging trial designed 
to identify the optimal regimen of Ragweed-SPIRE to advance into 
phase III testing. In addition, we plan to conduct a follow-on field 
study in TR006 subjects to determine the effect of exposure to 
naturally occurring ragweed pollen during a further season without 
additional treatment. We aim to incorporate the learnings from this 
follow-up into the design of the dose ranging study, and to discuss 
the details of our development plan with regulators. We anticipate 
the study may enrol approximately 500 subjects and could include 
the best performing dose of Ragweed-SPIRE tested to date and 
at least one regimen of higher-dose Ragweed-SPIRE. We plan to 
initiate the study and complete recruitment and dosing prior to the 
2017 pollen season, with results anticipated in H1 2018. 
Supportive field results
Higher-dose Ragweed-SPIRE regimen 
improved combined scores of symptoms and 
rescue medication use by 33% compared 
with placebo 
We have three further 
SPIRE programmes 
advancing towards 
the clinic
‘
‘
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 22 Pipeline progress
Birch-SPIRE: toxicology studies initiated;  
chemistry progressing
Birch-SPIRE is Circassia’s novel product candidate for the 
treatment of birch pollen allergy, and is currently in pre-clinical 
development. During 2014, we initiated Birch-SPIRE toxicology 
studies and progressed manufacturing chemistry of the product 
peptides in preparation for advancing into the clinic in H2 2015. 
Japanese cedar-SPIRE: pre-clinical studies initiated; 
regulatory discussions advancing
Our novel product candidate designed for the treatment of 
Japanese cedar allergy is also in pre-clinical development.  
We have identified candidate epitopes for the product, and during 
2014 initiated studies to confirm they do not cause histamine 
release in blood samples from allergy sufferers. We expect to 
select the lead candidate in H1 2015, and are currently discussing 
toxicology study requirements with the Japanese regulators. 
Alternaria-SPIRE: histamine release studies initiated
Alternaria-SPIRE is Circassia’s product candidate targeting allergy 
to the common mould Alternaria. Development is at a similar stage 
to Japanese cedar-SPIRE, with histamine release studies ongoing 
in blood from allergic subjects. We anticipate selecting a lead 
candidate in H2 2015, which we plan to progress into toxicology 
testing in 2016. 
ToleroMune
®
 development: immunology studies complete
During 2014, we undertook a number of studies to support the 
efficient leveraging of our ToleroMune
®
 technology. We completed 
two successful clinical trials as part of our Adiga joint venture 
with McMaster University. These were designed to assist in the 
development of future products, and are evaluating a number of 
mechanistic aspects of SPIRE treatment, such as the identification 
of novel biomarkers. In addition, our collaboration with Professor 
Mark Larché at McMaster, which is funded by the NIH, continued 
to make good progress and provided important immunology 
data associated with SPIRE treatment. During the year, we also 
progressed additional work evaluating immunological mechanisms, 
such as the detection of treatment-related changes in gene 
expression in allergen-specific T cells. 
~500 
subjects
Ragweed-SPIRE dose ranging study may enrol 
approximately 500 subjects
Our Adiga joint venture 
completed two successful 
clinical immunology 
studies in 2014
‘
‘
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 23 Strategic review continued
Manufacturing progress
Production milestones achieved for clinical programmes 
and to support commercial launch
As part of our outsourcing strategy we work with established 
manufacturers for the production of our products. During 2014, 
we continued our work with Bachem and Patheon to produce 
study supplies and prepare for commercial production. As a result, 
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API) manufacturing is now at 
commercial scale for all four of our late-stage products and the 
commercial fill-finish process is in place for three of the treatments, 
and work on the fourth is underway. 
During the year, Bachem completed the production of the  
Cat-SPIRE API validation batches required for regulatory approval,  
and Patheon completed validation batches of drug product. 
Bachem also produced initial API validation batches for  
HDM-SPIRE, and Patheon established the product’s lyophilisation 
process at commercial scale. For Ragweed-SPIRE, the API 
commercial scale manufacture has been established in the  
US, and the fill-finish process has completed scale-up.  
For Grass-SPIRE, the initial API pre-validation batches are  
being produced, and transfer of the lyophilisation process  
to the commercial manufacturing site is progressing well. 
Commercialisation progress
Chief Commercial Officer appointed; team recruitment 
underway; positive market research results
In November 2014, we announced the appointment of our 
Chief Commercial Officer, who will establish and lead our global 
commercial operations in preparation for the launch of our first next 
generation allergy treatment. Linda Szyper, who brings over 20 
years’ experience of product commercialisation, will also head our 
newly established US subsidiary. Following Linda’s appointment, 
we have begun to expand our commercialisation infrastructure, 
starting with the recruitment of US medical science liaisons who 
will focus on working with key opinion leaders and allergists, as 
well as supporting our clinical programmes. We plan to mirror 
this approach in the five key European markets, and are currently 
recruiting in each of these countries. At the same time, we plan to 
build our internal market access capabilities, and intend to recruit 
experts in both the US and Europe in the coming months. 
During 2014, we also progressed our pre-launch activities  
for Cat-SPIRE, including the development of the product’s  
brand name. Following successful initial research with  
healthcare professionals and patients we are currently testing  
a panel of four potential names. In the coming months, we  
intend to select the final name and file trade mark applications. 
During 2014, we also commissioned a range of market research 
with allergists, payers and patients in the US and key European 
markets. Positive results show that all groups welcomed the 
product profile presented for Cat-SPIRE, and the outcomes will  
be used to inform our message development, product positioning 
and value proposition for launch. Importantly, the recent results 
from US payers suggest Cat-SPIRE has a pricing opportunity  
that is potentially greater than that identified in research we 
conducted before the 2014 US approvals of sublingual whole 
allergen therapies for grass and ragweed allergies. 
Manufacturing progress
Our active pharmaceutical ingredient 
manufacturing is at commercial scale for 
all four lead programmes
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 24 Building our team
Teams strengthened to support phase III programmes  
and commercialisation
During the year we accelerated our clinical portfolio, initiating a 
large number of studies and preparing to begin others, including 
a pivotal phase III trial for Grass-SPIRE. We also progressed 
our launch preparations for our lead product. To support this 
rapid advance, we have recruited experts to join our medical, 
clinical, regulatory, quality and Chemistry, Manufacturing and 
Control (CMC) teams, and are currently building our commercial 
organisation. As a result, Circassia’s team more than doubled 
during 2014, growing from 25 employees at the start of the period 
to 56 at the end of the year. 
Intellectual property progress
US protection extended to 2030; 13 patents granted; 
opposition successfully defended
During 2014, we continued to invest in our intellectual property  
to protect our ToleroMune
®
 technology and product portfolio. 
In the US, we succeeded in obtaining patent term adjustments 
for Cat-SPIRE, HDM-SPIRE and Grass-SPIRE, and protection 
will run to 2030 for each of these treatments, with the potential 
for further significant patent extensions available post-approval. 
During the year, we also created additional layers of protection, 
with 13 new patents granted, of which six relate to Cat-SPIRE, 
HDM-SPIRE and Grass-SPIRE in the US, Japan, and China. In 
addition, we completed six new filings in key markets to provide 
additional protection for these products. We also made progress 
defending our intellectual property position. In November 2014, we 
were successful at a European Patent Office opposition hearing, 
at which the Opposition Division upheld the validity of our patent 
covering Ragweed-SPIRE. 
Outlook
Clinical progress continuing; commercial plans 
accelerating; US immunotherapy market advancing
During 2015, we plan to continue advancing our clinical portfolio, 
with six studies ongoing of which three are scheduled for 
completion in support of our phase III programmes. The first two, 
an observational study and a controlled asthmatic safety trial, will 
support the design of our Grass-SPIRE phase III pivotal study, 
which remains on track to begin in H1 2016. The third, a paediatric 
safety study, will support our ongoing Cat-SPIRE phase III study 
as part of our European regulatory filing strategy. We continue on 
track to complete our phase III study in H1 2016, and, subject to 
the results, plan to file for marketing approval in North America  
and Europe later that year. 
Alongside our clinical plans, we intend to further develop our 
commercial organisation in preparation for the launch of our first 
product, and are currently building the foundations while continuing 
to review opportunities to accelerate our commercialisation 
strategy, including through acquisition. As part of this process, we 
are recruiting medical science liaisons in the US and Europe, and 
we intend to augment our commercial team with market access 
and marketing specialists during 2015. In addition, we plan to 
finalise the brand name for Cat-SPIRE, and to initiate large-scale 
global research that will provide the foundations for our future 
marketing programmes. 
Over the longer term, we believe Circassia is well placed to 
capitalise on a renewed focus on the allergy field. With the recent 
approval of sublingual immunotherapies in the US, 2015 is likely to 
see the opening up of the market to new treatments. We welcome 
these positive developments, and believe the allergy field, which 
has long been poorly served by the pharmaceutical industry, is 
poised to undergo a resurgence that Circassia is well positioned  
to exploit.
Commercial fill-finish
The commercial fill-finish process 
is in place for three of our four lead 
programmes and work on the fourth  
is underway
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 25 Financial review
During the year, the Company transformed its financial 
position through a successful flotation on the London 
Stock Exchange. The proceeds have supported greater 
investment in R&D, with a number of new clinical studies 
initiated, and an expansion of the Company’s R&D team to 
manage the increased activity. At the end of the year, the 
Group’s balance sheet remains strong, with cash, cash 
equivalents and short-term deposits of £186.6 million. 
Admission to London Stock Exchange
On 18 March 2014, the Company completed a landmark Initial 
Public Offering and was admitted to the London Stock Exchange. 
The Company offered approximately 64.5 million Ordinary shares 
at 310p each, raising gross proceeds of £200.0 million. It also 
offered 0.6 million shares from the over-allotment option at the 
same price, raising additional gross proceeds of £2.0 million.
Research and development activities
During the period, the Group increased its investment in  
research and development to £38.6 million (2013: £21.1 million). 
This covered a number of activities:
― Initiation of new clinical trials, including a phase III follow-on 
study for Cat-SPIRE (CP007A), a phase II controlled asthmatic 
study for Ragweed-SPIRE (TR007) and a phase IIb field study 
of HDM-SPIRE (TH005)
― Completion of recruitment into the Cat-SPIRE phase III 
registration study (CP007)
― Completion of a phase IIb chamber study of Ragweed-SPIRE 
(TR006)
― Manufacture of clinical trial supplies for Cat-SPIRE, HDM-
SPIRE and Ragweed-SPIRE, and production of validation 
batches for Cat-SPIRE
― Increase in R&D headcount to 44 at the end of the year  
(2013: 16)
― Award of new share options with a charge to the income 
statement of £0.7 million (2013: £nil)
Administrative expenditure
Commercial infrastructure and administrative expenses, including 
corporate overheads, centrally-managed support functions and 
corporate costs, increased to £7 .2 million (2013: £3.8 million).  
This expenditure covered a number of costs:
― Increase in headcount to 12 at the end of the year (2013: 9)
― Award of new share options with a charge to the income 
statement of £0.5 million (2013: £nil)
― Professional fees including public company costs and patent 
costs of £3.5 million (2013: £1.3 million)
― IPO-related costs not available for offset against the share 
premium account of £0.2 million (2013: £nil)
― Commercial infrastructure build costs of £0.8 million  
(2013: £0.3 million)
Financial income
Net finance income increased by £1.3 million to £1.9 million,  
due to higher average cash balances following admission.
Operating loss
Operating loss for the year ended 31 December 2014 was  
£45.8 million (2013: £24.5 million). This increase reflects the greater 
number of clinical trials undertaken and more advanced stage 
of product development across the Group’s portfolio. Average 
headcount also increased from 20 during 2013 to 49 during 2014 
to manage this increase in activity.
R&D tax credits
The Group recorded a tax credit for the year of £8.9 million  
(2013: £3.9 million) in the income statement, relating to qualifying 
research and development expenditure. The increase reflects the 
higher R&D investment during the year, and an increase in the  
R&D tax credit rate from 11% to 14.5% from 1 April 2014.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 26 Loss per share
Basic loss per share decreased to 21p (2013: 126p after 
adjustment for the re-capitalisation). This reflects an increased 
loss after tax of £35.1 million (2013: £20.0 million), which was 
significantly more than offset by the increase in Ordinary share 
capital of the Company following admission. Note 21 to the 
financial statements provides a full explanation of the change  
in share capital.
Financial position 
The Group’s net assets of £190.8 million were significantly  
higher at the end of the year compared to the previous year 
(2013: £30.0 million), largely due to the increase in cash following 
admission. Costs relating to admission amounted to £9.6 million, of 
which, £9.4 million was offset against the share premium account 
and £0.2 million of indirect admission costs were included in the 
income statement. Current tax assets stood at £8.8 million at the 
end of the year (2013: £4.0 million), representing the R&D tax credit 
for the year. Trade and other payables increased by £3.8 million to 
£9.8 million, mainly due to year-end accruals of supplier invoices 
and annual year-end bonuses. 
Cash flow and position
The Group’s cash position (including short-term deposits) 
increased significantly from £30.6 million at the end of 2013  
to £186.6 million at 31 December 2014. This reflects a number  
of changes:
― Net proceeds of £192.4 million from shares issued on 
admission (2013: £1,928 for issued shares)
― Net cash used in operating activities increased to  
£36.7 million (2013: £17 .9 million) due to higher investment in 
research and development and an increase in administrative 
expenditure
― Receipt of £4.1 million R&D tax credit from HMRC  
(2013: £3.0 million)
― Interest from bank deposits decreased to £0.2 million  
(2013: £1.3 million) due to the timing of the maturity of  
fixed-term deposits
― Capital expenditure of £0.3 million (2013: £nil) for fit out  
of additional R&D office space
Summary and outlook
During 2014, Circassia’s admission to the London Stock Exchange 
transformed the Company’s financial position. The funds raised 
at the flotation supported increased R&D investment during the 
year as the Company conducted a greater number of clinical 
studies across its portfolio. The balance sheet remains robust, 
and the Company anticipates maintaining momentum in its 
clinical development programmes during 2015. With the phase 
III registration study of the Company’s lead product on track to 
complete in H1 2016, Circassia remains funded to bring its  
first allergy treatment to market. 
Julien Cotta
Chief Financial Officer
£38.6m
Increased investment in research and development  
to £38.6 million (2013: £21.1 million)
£7.2m
Administration expenditure increased to £7.2 million 
(2013: £3.8 million) reflecting larger company cost base
£8.9m
The Group recorded a tax credit for the year of £8.9 million  
(2013: £3.9 million) in the income statement, relating to qualifying 
research and development expenditure
£186.6m
The Group’s balance sheet remains strong with cash,  
cash equivalents and short-term deposits of £186.6 million 
at 31 December 2014 (31 December 2013: £30.6 million)
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 27 People
Attracting, motivating and retaining a highly skilled workforce is  
key to the Group’s long-term success. The policies put in place by 
the Group accord with best practice, and stipulate that there should 
be equal opportunities and an absence of discrimination for all 
employees.
Diversity
The importance of diversity within the Group is also reflected in 
its policies and procedures. The Group does not have formal 
diversity quotas but recognises that a diverse employee profile is 
of significant benefit. The table below shows the gender profile at 
different levels of the Group as at 31 December 2014.
Member Male Female Total %Male %Female
Plc Board including 
Non-Executive 
Directors 9 1 10 90 10
Senior Managers 
excluding Directors 4 2 6 67 33
All other employees 24 23 47 51 49
Total 37 26 63 59 41
Employee welfare and involvement
The maternity and paternity leave and pay policies of the 
Group meet all statutory requirements. In addition, the Group 
has implemented a flexible working policy which, with suitable 
authorisation and where responsibilities allow, permits employees 
to work from home at certain times.
The Employees are regularly provided with information about the 
Group, for example through regular ‘open house’ sessions at which 
the CEO and other members of the management team present 
on various topics such as strategic and operational progress, 
and employee-related policies. Feedback is frequently sought by 
line managers and the senior management team through team 
meetings, and in 2014 a formal Employee Survey took place which 
led to the implementation of several proposals from employees.
The Directors recognise the importance of corporate social 
responsibility, and seek to take account of the interests 
of all the Group’s stakeholders, including its investors, 
customers, suppliers, partners, and employees when 
operating the business. The Board believes that fostering 
an environment in which employees act in an ethical and 
socially responsible fashion is critical to its long-term 
success. The Group strives to be a good corporate citizen 
and respects the laws of the countries in which it operates.
Corporate social responsibility
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 28 Health and safety
The Group is committed to protecting the health and safety of its 
employees and endeavours to maintain an effective health and 
safety culture. 
The Group provides ongoing training to individuals who are 
responsible for health and safety and all staff are notified of 
health and safety practices. The Group continuously monitors its 
health and safety policy and practices to ensure they are robust, 
appropriate, and reflect changes in best practice.
Ethical and social policies
The Group is a pharmaceutical group and accordingly operates in a 
highly regulated ethical framework. It complies fully with these laws 
and regulations. The Company has a clear anti-bribery policy and 
political donations by the Group are not permitted.
Product development
The Company’s ToleroMune
®
 technology undertakes early 
development efficacy testing in blood samples taken from human 
volunteers with allergies. The Group commissions third-party 
laboratories to conduct the minimum necessary pre-clinical 
product safety testing in animal models as required by regulatory 
authorities before commencing clinical studies. Regulators have 
required the Group to commission this safety testing.
Environment
The Group is committed to minimising the impact of its  
activities on the environment. As its employees operate out  
of two modern office suites, and the Group has no production 
facilities, it believes that efficient use of energy and materials in 
those offices is the most important means of climate protection 
currently available to it. Initiatives to reduce waste have been 
adopted, which include recycling of paper waste, cans, plastics  
and printer toners/cartridges.
Greenhouse gas emission
This section of the Annual report constitutes the Group’s disclosure 
of its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report 
Regulations 2013).
The Group considers that its current activities have a low 
environmental impact. Nonetheless, it still actively seeks to make 
energy savings in a fashion which is environmentally responsible 
and cost effective.
This is the first year in which the Group has reported on GHG 
emissions and so no comparative data is available for the year 
ended 31 December 2013. The baseline year for this report is the 
year ended 31 December 2014.
Greenhouse gas  
emissions by source 2014
Tonnes of  
carbon dioxide
Scope 1 –
Scope 2 17
Total emissions 17
GHG emissions are reported in metric tonnes of carbon  
dioxide equivalents and calculated using the energy calculator 
provided by the National Energy Foundation (which uses the  
Defra conversion factors).
Gas and electricity usage information has been obtained from 
purchase invoices and verified by reference to meter readings. 
In order to express annual emissions in relation to a quantifiable 
factor associated with the Group’s business, an intensity ratio  
has been calculated which shows emissions reported per square 
metre of the office space occupied by the Group. This shows  
that the Group uses approximately 47 kilogrammes of carbon 
dioxide per m
2
.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 29 Risks and risk management
The management of risks is a key responsibility of the 
Board of Directors of the Company. The Board ensures 
that the risks taken by the Group are understood, and 
are appropriate in the light of the Company’s strategy 
and objectives, and that internal controls are in place to 
effectively identify, assess, and manage important risks. 
 
The risk management strategy adopted by the Company has a 
number of facets. A risk register has been created and is updated 
on an annual basis by those individuals in the business who 
manage risks on a day to day basis. This process is coordinated 
by the Chief Financial Officer. The register is reviewed by the Board 
of Directors and the Senior Management Team, with a particular 
emphasis on ensuring that the risk appetite of the Board is fully 
understood by the relevant employees. The register also sets 
out activities which are designed to mitigate the identified risks, 
and again the Board and the Senior Management Team analyse 
these mitigation strategies and ensure that the approach taken is 
consistent with the nature and degree of risks which are considered 
acceptable by the Board. Aside from the review, risk owners across 
the business are responsible for reporting any significant issues 
on an ongoing basis up to the Senior Management Team and for 
ensuring that other members of their teams are aware of the risk 
management process. The Senior Management Team will, in turn, 
update the Board on a timely basis where important developments 
occur. Within the R&D function, project team meetings take place 
once a month at which progress and risks of each individual project 
is discussed. These discussions are then documented in detailed 
reports which are circulated to the Senior Management Team.
The risk management system is designed to manage risks, 
rather than eliminate them at the expense of achieving corporate 
objectives. Accordingly, it can only provide a reasonable and not  
an absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
 
Principal risks 
The main risks relevant to the Group have been identified below, 
together with an explanation of how they are managed and 
controlled. Some risks are common across the pharmaceutical 
industry, while others reflect the Group’s specific strategy. The 
Company considers all of these risks relevant to any decision to 
invest in the Company.
Regulatory approvals
The Company may not obtain regulatory approval for its products. 
Even if products are approved, subsequent regulatory difficulties 
may arise, or the conditions relating to the approval may be more 
onerous or restrictive than the Company expects.
The pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated. Regulatory 
authorities across the world enforce a range of laws and regulations 
which govern the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and 
marketing of pharmaceutical products. Stringent standards are 
imposed which relate to the quality, safety and efficacy of these 
products. These requirements are a major determinant of whether 
it is commercially feasible to develop a drug substance given the 
time, expertise, and expense which must be invested. Moreover, 
approval in one territory offers no guarantee that regulatory 
approval will be obtained in any other territory.
The Company’s lead product candidate is Cat-SPIRE, which it 
is developing for the treatment of cat allergy. Failure to obtain 
regulatory approval for this lead product, or significant delays 
in obtaining approval, would have a material adverse effect on 
the Company’s business. This risk can be further divided into 
a number of component risks, each of which require distinct 
mitigation strategies. These include a failure to complete the phase 
III registration study and supporting studies; inability to demonstrate 
efficacy of the product after moving to field studies from chamber 
studies; and any problems which might arise in validating the 
manufacturing process for the active pharmaceutical ingredient in 
the product.
In order to obtain regulatory approval for the Company’s products, 
it will be necessary to successfully complete the supporting clinical 
studies. Clinical studies are typically expensive, complex and time-
consuming, and have uncertain outcomes. Conditions in which 
clinical studies are conducted differ, and results achieved in one 
set of conditions could be different from the results achieved in 
different conditions or with different subject populations. Regulatory 
authorities or institutional review boards may suspend or terminate 
clinical studies at any time if the subjects participating in such 
studies are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or may 
require additional studies to be performed. Difficulties or delays in 
the enrolment of subjects could result in significant delays in the 
completion of those studies and even in their abandonment.
The Company relies on third-party sub-contractors and service 
providers for the execution of most aspects of its development 
programs. Failure of these third parties to provide services of a 
suitable quality within acceptable timeframes – for example due to 
technical reasons or bankruptcy of the provider – may cause the 
failure or delay of these development programs.
Even where approval is obtained, regulatory authorities may still 
impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing 
of the product or impose costly, ongoing requirements for post-
marketing surveillance or post-approval studies.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 30 Mitigating activities 
The Group manages its regulatory risk by employing highly 
experienced clinical managers and regulatory affairs professionals 
who, where appropriate, will commission advice from external 
advisers and consult with the regulatory authorities on the design 
of the Group’s pre-clinical and clinical programs. These in-house 
experts ensure that high quality protocols and other documentation 
are submitted during the regulatory process, and that well-reputed 
contract research organisations with global capabilities are retained 
to manage the trials.
With regard to the risks specifically identified in relation to  
Cat-SPIRE, it is of note that recruitment for the phase III study 
has now been successfully completed; allergen levels used in the 
exposure chamber have been shown to be comparable to those 
experienced with an indoor cat which reduces the risk that it will 
not be possible to show efficacy moving from chamber studies  
to field studies; and three validation batches of Cat-SPIRE have 
now been manufactured, giving comfort that the manufacturing 
process is robust.
Unforeseen side effects
Unforeseen side effects may result from the use of the Company’s 
products or product candidates.
There is a risk of adverse reactions with all drugs. If any of the 
Company’s products are found to cause adverse reactions or 
unacceptable side effects, then product development may be 
delayed, additional expenses may be incurred if further studies are 
required, and, in extreme circumstances, it may prove necessary 
to suspend or terminate development. This may occur even after 
regulatory approval has been obtained, in which case additional 
trials may be required or the approval may be suspended or 
withdrawn or additional safety warnings may have to be included 
on the label.
Adverse events or unforeseen side effects may also potentially lead 
to product liability claims being raised against the Company as the 
developer of the products and sponsor of the relevant clinical trials.
Mitigating activities 
The Company conducts extensive pre-clinical and clinical trials 
which test for and identify any adverse side effects. A robust 
pharmacovigilance plan is in place to ensure any safety issues are 
identified and reported. A Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy 
(REMS) has also been developed to ensure that the benefits of 
Cat-SPIRE are balanced against any risks. Insurance is in place to 
cover product liability claims which may arise during the conduct of 
clinical trials.
Commercial success
The Company’s products may not be commercially successful.
The Company may not be able to sell its products profitably if 
reimbursement from third-party payers such as private health 
insurers and government health authorities is restricted or not 
available because for example it proves difficult to build a strong 
enough economic case based on the burden of illness and 
population impact. Third-party payers are increasingly attempting to 
curtail healthcare costs by challenging the prices that are charged 
for pharmaceutical products and denying or limiting coverage and 
the level of reimbursement. Moreover, even if the products can 
be sold profitably, they may not be accepted by patients and the 
medical community.
Alternatively, the Company’s competitors – many of whom have 
considerably greater financial and human resources – may 
develop safer or more effective products or be able to compete 
more effectively in the markets targeted by the Company. New 
companies may enter these markets and novel products and 
technologies may become available which are more commercially 
successful than those being developed by the Company.
Factors that may undermine the Company’s efforts to 
commercialise its products include: the inability to train and retain 
effective sales and marketing personnel; a failure to persuade 
prescribers to prescribe products; and higher costs of marketing 
and promotion than are anticipated by the Company.
Mitigating activities
In the context of Cat-SPIRE, thorough market research will be 
carried out prior to product launch and the findings will be used 
to generate effective and appropriately resourced marketing 
campaigns. These will emphasise the attributes which differentiate 
the product from its competitors, for example its short dosing 
regimen and lack of side effects. A disease awareness campaign 
will be developed and implemented. Pricing and reimbursement 
studies and health economic data will be used to support the value 
proposition which will be presented to payers.
Supply chain
The Group relies on third-party contractors for the supply of 
key materials and services. Problems with contractors, such as 
technical issues, contamination, and regulatory actions may lead 
to delays or even loss of supply or inadequate supply of these 
materials and services either prior to launch or thereafter. Some 
materials may only be available from one source, as is currently  
the case for the peptides contained in the Cat-SPIRE product,  
and regulatory requirements may make substitution costly and 
time-consuming, particularly where the product is regulated  
as a biologic.
Mitigating activities 
Audits of sub-contractors are routinely conducted according to 
procedures set out in the Company’s quality system. Dual sourcing 
is being investigated where this is practicable. Manufacturing sites 
are well established regulator approved facilities.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 31 Risks and risk management continued
Research and development risks
The Company may not be successful in its efforts to use and 
expand its technology platform, ToleroMune
®
, to build a pipeline 
of products and develop marketable products. This would have a 
material impact on the long-term success of the business. Failure of 
programs could result from lack of internal resources or capabilities, 
or from not obtaining the desired pre-clinical and clinical results.
Mitigating activities
The Company has recruited highly experienced R&D executives. 
Projects are closely monitored against goals and regularly reported 
to the Senior Management Team and the Board, and external 
resources are retained where this is deemed appropriate. In 
addition, the Company will seek, through business development 
activity, to identify opportunities which would expand and diversify 
its portfolio.
Intellectual property, know how, and trade secrets
The Company may be subject to challenges relating to the validity 
of its patents. If these challenges are successful then the Company 
may be exposed to generic competition. Four of the Company’s 
granted European patents (three patents relevant to Cat-SPIRE 
and a fourth relevant to Ragweed-SPIRE) are currently the subject 
of opposition proceedings at the European Patent Office by 
anonymous opponents. If the opponents are successful then the 
patent protection for these products in Europe will be reduced or 
even eliminated.
Alternatively, the Company may be sued for infringement of third-
party patent rights. If these actions are successful then it may have 
to pay substantial damages and potentially remove its products 
from the market.
Such litigation, particularly in the US, involves significant costs  
and uncertainties.
It is possible that the Company will not be able to secure intellectual 
property protection, or sufficient protection, in relation to products 
which are acquired or in development. Similarly, a failure by the 
Company to maintain or renew key patents would lead to the loss 
of such protection. In both cases the potential of the Company to 
earn revenue from its products could be compromised as it would 
be less difficult for third parties to copy the products.
The Company may rely upon know how and trade secrets to 
protect its products and maintain a competitive advantage. This 
may be especially important where patent protection is limited 
or lacking. Conversely, the Company may be subject to claims 
that its employees or agents have wrongfully used or disclosed 
the confidential information of third parties which could lead to 
damages or injunctions which affect particular products.
The Company licenses certain intellectual property rights from third 
parties. If the Company fails to comply with its obligations under 
these agreements it may enable the other party to terminate the 
agreement. This could impair the Company’s freedom to operate 
and potentially lead to third parties preventing it from selling certain 
of its products.
Mitigating activities
Detailed responses have been filed to the four oppositions 
commenced against the Company. The oral hearing relating to the 
European Ragweed-SPIRE patent took place in November 2014 
and the Opposition Division of the European Patent Office upheld 
the validity of the patent and rejected all grounds of opposition. 
Important products are covered by more than one patent family 
and oppositions to patents are defended using carefully selected 
external patent attorneys and lawyers. A robust system is in place 
which ensures patents are renewed on time. Third-party patent 
filings are monitored to ensure the Company continues to have 
freedom to operate and oppositions against third-party patents are 
filed where this is considered expedient. Confidential information 
(both of the Company and belonging to third parties) is protected 
through use of confidential disclosure agreements with third parties, 
and suitable provisions relating to confidentiality and intellectual 
property exist in the Company’s employment contracts. Licences 
are monitored for compliance with their terms.
Organisational capabilities and capacity
The Company may be unable to successfully implement its plans 
for growth if it does not attract and retain employees with the 
requisite capabilities and experience, in appropriate numbers. More 
particularly, the rapid development which is envisaged may place 
unsupportable demands on the Company’s current managers and 
employees, particularly if it cannot attract sufficient new employees. 
The Company depends on the skills and experience of its current 
management team and employees, and is generally subject to 
competition for, and may fail to retain, skilled personnel.
Existing employees, investigators, consultants and commercial 
partners may engage in misconduct or improper activities, 
including non-compliance with regulatory standards and laws.
Where the Company acquires complementary technologies, 
products, or businesses it may not be able to integrate those 
acquisitions effectively or realise their expected benefits.
The Company may be vulnerable to disruption and damage as  
a result of failures of its computer systems.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 32 Mitigating activities
The Company has budgeted for substantial growth in headcount 
over the next three years. The management team has already been 
strengthened in the course of 2014 by the recruitment of a General 
Counsel, Chief Medical Officer, Chief Commercial Officer, and 
Vice President of Human Resources. Remuneration packages are 
competitive, and incentive plans based on the contingent award of 
shares, are in place to attract, motivate and retain staff.
Disciplinary and whistleblowing policies exist to address 
misconduct by employees and officers, and committee structures 
have been established with the Contract Research Organisations 
instructed by the Company, to monitor and manage the conduct of 
the Company’s clinical trials.
The Senior Management Team has considerable experience 
of integrating acquired businesses and assets, and will assess 
opportunities using conservative assumptions.
To address IT risks, a disaster recovery plan has been developed. 
Data is backed up daily on off-site servers and the Company 
operates from two physically separate sites.
Financial operations
The Group has incurred significant losses since its inception and 
anticipates that it will continue to do so, at least until it is able to 
launch products.
Foreign exchange fluctuations may adversely affect the Group’s 
results and financial condition. The Group records its transactions 
and prepares its Financial Statements in pounds sterling, but a 
significant proportion of its expenditure is in US dollars, Canadian 
dollars, Swiss Francs, or Euros.
Adverse decisions of regulators, including tax authorities, or 
changes in tax treaties, laws, or the interpretation of those laws, 
could reduce or eliminate research and development tax credits 
which the Group, and its joint venture Adiga Life Sciences Inc. 
currently receive in the United Kingdom and Canada respectively.
Mitigating activities
The Group has prepared a detailed budget for the next three 
years and, if it achieves its objectives, this shows that the current 
business plan is sufficient to support the business through to 
commercialisation of Cat-SPIRE.
Forward purchases of foreign currencies are made when exchange 
rates are favourable to provide for expenditure in those currencies. 
Markets are monitored on a daily basis.
If tax credits are lost in the future then action would be taken to 
reduce discretionary expenditure in order to help ensure there 
remained sufficient cash to support the business through to 
commercialisation of Cat-SPIRE.
The Strategic report on pages 01 to 33 has been approved  
by the Board.
Steven Harris
Chief Executive Officer
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 33 Board of Directors
1 Dr Francesco Granata 
Chairman, 64 
Dr Francesco Granata, joined 
Circassia as Chairman on  
1 September 2013. He is also 
Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee.
Francesco is senior advisor at 
Warburg Pincus International LLC. 
Prior to this he was Executive Vice 
President at Biogen Idec Inc., and 
before that he was Group Vice 
President and President responsible 
for Canada and major European 
markets at Schering-Plough 
Corporation. Previously, he served  
as Regional President for Northern 
Europe and also Middle East and 
Africa at Pfizer Inc., and as Managing 
Director of Pharmacia & Upjohn Inc.  
in Italy. He is currently a Board 
member of Italfarmaco SpA,  
a leading Italian pharmaceutical  
group that operates in both the 
pharma and chemical sectors;  
BSP Pharmaceuticals srl, an Italian  
CMO; Prismic Pharmaceuticals Inc.,  
a US based medical food company; 
and a member of the strategic 
advisory committee at Lupin, a 
leading Indian global pharmaceutical 
company. Prior to his career in 
industry, Francesco practised as  
a medical doctor specialising in 
cardiology. He holds a degree in 
medicine and surgery from the 
University of Pavia, Italy, and was 
formerly a member of the Board  
of the European Federation of 
Pharmaceutical Industry Associations.
2 Steven Harris 
Chief Executive Officer, 48
Steven Harris co-founded Circassia 
on 19 May 2006 and has led the 
Company as Chief Executive Officer 
since then.
Steven has extensive experience  
of leading specialty pharmaceutical 
companies. Prior to co-founding 
Circassia, he was a founding member 
of the management team that grew 
Zeneus Pharma Limited into a 
successful specialty pharmaceutical 
company and managed its acquisition 
by Cephalon Inc. (now part of Teva 
Pharmaceutical Industries Limited). 
Prior to this he served for seven  
years as Chief Financial Officer of 
PowderJect Pharmaceuticals plc  
and was a key member of the 
management team which grew  
the organisation from a private 
biotechnology company to the world’s 
fifth largest vaccines business, before 
it was acquired by Chiron Corporation 
in 2003. He holds a BSc from 
Southampton University and is a 
Chartered Accountant and a member 
of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of England and  
Wales (ICAEW). 
3 Julien Cotta 
Chief Financial Officer, 51
Julien Cotta joined Circassia as Chief 
Financial Officer on 5 January 2012 
and was appointed a Director on  
26 November 2013.
Julien has significant financial 
management experience in the 
healthcare industry. Prior to joining 
Circassia, he was Chief Financial 
Officer of the Finnish medical 
technology company, Inion Oy, and 
before this Group Financial Controller 
at Whatman plc (now part of  
GE Healthcare). Previously, he  
served as Vice President of Financial 
Accounting at Chiron Corporation  
and Group Financial Controller at 
PowderJect Pharmaceuticals plc 
(prior to its acquisition by Chiron in 
2003). Before this he held senior  
financial management roles at  
Scotia Pharmaceuticals Limited,  
and Sanofi S.A., having begun  
his pharmaceutical career as a  
sales representative at Merck  
Sharpe & Dohme Corporation.  
He completed his accountancy 
training at Coopers & Lybrand (now 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP). Julien 
holds a BSc (Hons) in Pharmacology 
from University College London and is 
a Chartered Accountant and a 
member of the ICAEW.
4 Dr Rod Hafner 
Director and Senior Vice President 
Research & Development, 49
Dr Rod Hafner joined Circassia on  
1 March 2007 and became Senior 
Vice President of Research & 
Development and a Director on  
10 March 2008.
Rod has many years of experience  
at a senior level in the life sciences 
industry and is a named inventor on 
numerous granted patents and patent 
applications. Before joining Circassia, 
he led the UK operating company  
of the Scandinavian drug delivery 
business, OptiNose AS (now 
OptiNose US Inc.) and prior to that 
was Director of Programme 
Management and Vice President of 
Research & Development Portfolio 
Management at PowderJect. Other 
roles have included Head of Project 
Management at Cortecs International 
Limited and positions at Wyeth 
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (now Pfizer)  
and The Procter & Gamble Company. 
Rod has led Circassia’s research and 
development function since joining  
in 2007. He has a BSc (Hons) in 
Biochemistry from Edinburgh 
University and a PhD in Biochemistry 
from the University of Cambridge.
5 Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud 
Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director, 59
Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud, the Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director 
joined Circassia as a Non-Executive 
Director on 1 November 2012. He is 
Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and a Member of the 
Audit Committee and the Nomination 
Committee.
Jean-Jacques has extensive 
pharmaceutical research and 
development experience having  
held senior roles at companies in  
the United States and Europe.  
Until recently he was Global Head  
of Pharma Research and Early 
Development and a member of  
the extended corporate executive 
committee at F Hoffmann-La Roche 
Inc. having joined the company  
in 2007 as Global Head of 
Pharmaceutical Development and 
Chief Medical Officer. Prior to this he 
was Global Head of Clinical Research 
and Development and Global Head of 
Exploratory Development at Novartis 
and held roles at Schering-Plough 
Corporation, Rhone-Poulenc Rorer 
Limited and Merrell Dow 
Pharmaceuticals Inc. Before working 
in industry, Jean-Jacques practised 
medicine at the Claude Bernard 
Hospital in Paris, France after gaining 
his medical degree at the University of 
Paris. He is a Non-Executive Director 
at MedDay SAS, Inatherys SAS and 
Polyphor Limited and Chairman of the 
Inserm Transfert Initiatives Investment 
Committee.
6 Dr Tim Corn 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director, 63
Dr Tim Corn joined Circassia as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director 
on 1 August 2006. He is a Member  
of the Audit Committee, the 
Remuneration Committee, and  
the Nomination Committee.
Tim was previously Chief Medical 
Officer at EUSA Pharma (Europe 
Limited), an international division of 
Jazz Pharmaceuticals plc. In the 
course of his career, he has played a 
key role in the regulatory approval of 
numerous products in the fields of 
neurology and oncology. Tim qualified 
in medicine at King’s College Hospital, 
London, after gaining an MSc in 
Biochemistry from Imperial College, 
London. He has been a Fellow of the 
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Medicine 
since 1996 and a Fellow of the Royal 
College of Psychiatrists since 1998. 
He is Chairman of the Board of 
Trustees of the Neuro Foundation  
and a Non-Executive Director of 
Reneuron plc.
7 Russell Cummings
Non-Executive Director, 50
Russell Cummings joined Circassia  
as a Non-Executive Director on  
25 January 2007. He is Chief 
Executive Officer of Imperial 
Innovations Group plc, having joined 
as Chief Investment Officer in 2006. 
From 2003 to 2006, he held roles at 
the growth equity and venture capital 
firm Scottish Equity Partners LLP , and 
prior to this spent 16 years at the 
international venture capital company 
3i Group plc, latterly as a Director in 
its UK Technology Group. He holds a 
BSc (Eng) in Mechanical Engineering 
from Imperial College, London. 
Russell is also a Non-Executive 
Director of Nexeon Limited.
8 Paul R Edick 
Non-Executive Director, 59
Paul Edick joined Circassia as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director 
on 3 April 2013. 
Until 18 November 2014 Paul was 
Chief Executive Officer of Durata 
Therapeutics Inc. which was acquired 
by Actavis plc. Prior to this he was 
Chief Executive Officer of Ganic 
Pharmaceuticals Inc., a Warburg 
Pincus investment vehicle disbanded 
in June 2010. From 2006 to 2008  
he served as Chief Executive Officer 
of MedPointe Healthcare Inc., 
following a period as President.  
After MedPointe was acquired by 
Meda in late 2007, he continued in 
office until mid-2008 and then acted 
as a consultant for the rest of the year. 
Earlier roles included a number of 
senior positions at GD Searle & 
Company, and Pharmacia 
Corporation (now Pfizer Inc.), 
following the acquisition of Searle  
by Pharmacia, culminating in his 
appointment as Pharmacia’s Group 
Vice President and President, Asia 
Pacific/Latin America Operations.  
Paul holds a BA in Psychology from 
Hamilton College. He currently sits  
on the board of NewLink Genetics 
Corporation and was previously 
chairman of the Danish biotechnology 
company, Life Cycle Pharma A/S.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 34 9 Cathrin Petty 
Non-Executive Director, 41
Cathrin Petty joined Circassia as a 
Non-Executive Director on 8 March 
2010. She was Chair of the Audit 
Committee throughout 2014.
Cathrin is Co-Head of EMEA 
Healthcare at J.P . Morgan, and has 
extensive senior level experience of 
the life sciences industry. She has 
held a number of non-executive roles, 
most recently at ICON plc and at the 
NHS Strategic Health Authority for 
Greater London. She has previously 
worked as Special Partner at Vitruvian 
Partners LLP , Partner at Apax 
Partners LLP , and at Schroders and 
Schroder Ventures Life Sciences.  
She holds an MA in Natural Sciences 
from the University of Cambridge  
and a post-graduate Diploma in 
Management Studies from the  
Judge Institute, Cambridge.
10 Charles Swingland
Non-Executive Director, 62
Charles Swingland is a Non-Executive 
Director and co-founder of Circassia.
Charles was General Counsel, 
Company Secretary and Deputy 
Chairman of Circassia from May 2006 
until March 2014. Prior to founding 
Circassia with Steven Harris, he was a 
Director and General Counsel at 
Zeneus Pharma Limited from 2004 to 
2006 and before this was Executive 
Director, General Counsel and 
Company Secretary at PowderJect, 
until it was sold to Chiron in 2003. 
Before working in industry, Charles 
practised as a lawyer in the City of 
London for over 15 years.
11 Lota S Zoth 
Independent Non-Executive 
Director, 55
Lota Zoth was appointed to the Board 
as an Independent Non-Executive 
Director and a member of the 
Remuneration Committee on  
9 February 2015. 
She will become Chair of the Audit 
Committee on 27 February 2015.  
She is an experienced Board  
member, and has significant financial 
experience gained in a number of 
global public companies. Most 
recently she was CFO at 
MedImmune, and previously held 
senior positions at PSINet, Sodexho 
Marriott, PepsiCo and Ernst & Young. 
She is currently a Non-Executive 
Director at Hyperion Therapeutics Inc, 
NewLink Genetics Corporation and 
Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. She is also 
Chair of Aeras, a non-profit product 
development organisation focused on 
tuberculosis and funded by The Bill 
and Melinda Gates Foundation, and 
until 2014 was a Non-Executive 
Director at privately-held 
biopharmaceutical company Ikaria 
Inc. She has over 30 years’ 
experience as a Certified Public 
Accountant, and holds a Bachelor  
of Business Administration from  
Texas Tech University.
11
1
3
5
7
9
2
4
6
8
10
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 35 Corporate governance report
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
The UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) sets out the 
principles of good practice in relation to corporate governance 
which should be followed by companies with a listing on the 
London Stock Exchange. The Code is published by the Financial 
Reporting Council (“FRC”) and can be found on their website 
(www.frc.org.uk).
The principles of the Code are divided into five sections.  
Each section sets out the main principles relating to Leadership; 
Effectiveness; Accountability; Remuneration; and Relations with 
Shareholders. This report explains how Circassia has applied  
these principles.
The Directors support high standards of corporate 
governance. However, the Company has not complied with 
the recommendations of the Code that at least half the Board 
should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors and that 
the Audit Committee should comprise only independent Non-
Executive Directors. In addition, for a short part of the year the 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees did not comply with the 
membership requirements for independence. However, following 
the membership changes on the Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees, they complied with the membership requirements of 
the Code for independence. Following the membership change on 
the Audit Committee on 27 February 2015, the Audit Committee 
will comply with the membership requirements of the Code for 
independence.
Following Admission the Board consisted of ten members.  
Of these, three were independent Non-Executive Directors  
for the period 1 January 2014 to 14 September 2014 and from  
15 September 2014 to 31 December 2014, two of these three were 
considered by the Board to be independent. Of the other seven 
Directors, for the period from 1 January to 18 March 2014 there 
were two Non-Executive Directors not considered independent, 
four Executive Directors, and the Chairman (who was independent 
on appointment). From 18 March 2014 to 31 December 2014 there 
were three Non-Executive Directors not considered independent, 
three Executive Directors, and the Chairman. Charles Swingland 
was an Executive Director for the period 1 January 2014 to  
18 March 2014. On 18 March, he became a Non-Executive 
Director. The Audit Committee has consisted of two independent 
Non-Executive Directors and one Non-Executive Director.
The Board believes that at this point in the Group’s development 
it is important that it has access to the expertise and knowledge 
of all current Non-Executive Directors. Moreover, as was its stated 
intention in the Prospectus, the Company has been successful  
in recruiting an additional independent Non-Executive Director  
with recent and relevant financial experience who will join the  
Audit Committee and replace Cathrin Petty as Committee Chair. 
From 9 February 2015 the Board consisted of three independent 
Non-Executive Directors (as well as the Chairman) and from  
27 February 2015 will comply with the recommendation that  
the Audit Committee should comprise only independent  
Non-Executive Directors. 
Dear Shareholders
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Circassia’s 
Corporate governance report for the year ended 31 December 
2014. It describes how the Board and its Committees apply 
the principles of good corporate governance set out in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council on 28 September 2012 (the “Code”). The Code became 
effective for the Group as a result of its listing on the London Stock 
Exchange on 18 March 2014.
High standards of corporate governance are fundamental to our 
business and are implemented and supported through appropriate 
internal policies and procedures. The responsibility for ensuring this 
framework is effective lies with the Board, and we are constantly 
striving to improve standards while building a successful company.
One area on which the Board has focused in particular since Listing 
relates to its composition. As we explained at the time of Listing, 
the Board believes that at this critical point in its development the 
Group benefits from the knowledge and experience of the full range 
of its Non-Executive Directors but had been looking to appoint 
a further independent Non-Executive Director with recent and 
relevant financial experience, to Chair the Audit Committee. I am 
therefore pleased to report that on 9 February 2015, Ms Lota Zoth 
joined the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director, and 
will be appointed Chair of the Audit Committee on 27 February 
2015.
Maintaining good communication with our Shareholders is 
extremely important to us. During the year, Steve Harris, our CEO 
has held a number of meetings with investors and presented at 
several conferences which were attended by existing and potential 
Shareholders.
I, together with other members of the Board, will be present at our 
Annual General Meeting on 20 May 2015 and I would encourage all 
Shareholders to participate.
Dr Francesco Granata 
Chairman
Corporate governance
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 36 The Group’s Auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , is required 
to review whether this Corporate governance statement properly 
reflects the Group’s compliance with certain provisions of the Code 
and to report any non-compliance. The Group confirms that no 
report of non-compliance has been made other than in respect of 
the matters identified above in relation to Board composition.
Leadership
The role of the Board
The Board is responsible for the leadership and long-term success 
of the business. It has a schedule of matters which are reserved 
for its review. These include the review and approval of strategic 
plans, financial statements and budgets, financing, acquisitions and 
disposals, major capital expenditure, dividend policy, and Executive 
remuneration and appointments.
At each meeting, the Board will assess the progress of the Group 
when measured against its objectives, particularly those which 
relate to its clinical trials programme, and will review financial 
performance against the budget.
Roles and responsibilities
The Board is currently composed of the Chairman, three  
Executive Directors, and seven Non-Executive Directors.  
The biographies of the members of the Board who served  
during the year to 31 December 2014 are set out in the  
Corporate governance report.
The Executive Directors have direct responsibility for the  
business operations of the Company. The Non-Executive  
Directors, by virtue of their wide range of industry experience  
and skills, bring an informed view to the decision making process.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly 
delineated. This division of responsibilities has been set out in 
writing and approved by the Board.
Chairman
Dr Francesco Granata, Chairman, is responsible for the leadership 
of the Board and its effectiveness by ensuring that:
 — the agenda for meetings is appropriate, and the Board is 
provided with the information it needs for high quality decision 
making in a timely fashion;
 — the Board plays a full and constructive role in shaping the 
strategy of the Group;
 — the Board environment is productive and utilises the skills  
and experience of all members;
 — the Board complies with the appropriate standards of 
corporate governance;
 — the Committees are properly structured and resourced;
 — the performance of the Board, its committees, and individual 
Directors are evaluated each year; and
 — there is effective communication with Shareholders.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors meet in the 
absence of the Executive Directors as appropriate.
Chief Executive Officer
Steven Harris, Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for the 
day to day management of the Company and for formulating 
and implementing the strategy which has been reviewed and 
approved by the Board. He is also responsible for ensuring effective 
communication with Shareholders, brokers, and analysts.
The composition of the three Board Committees throughout the 
year and the extent to which their composition complied with the 
provisions of the Code, was as follows:
 — Nom i n a t i o n C om m i t te e  
The Code requires that a majority of the members of  
the Committee should be independent Non-Executive 
Directors and the Committee should be chaired by the 
Chairman or an independent Non-Executive Director.  
The Committee was constituted on 21 February 2014 with 
three members: Dr Francesco Granata (Chairman and Chair 
of the Committee); Dr Tim Corn and Mr Paul Edick. For the 
period from 21 February to 14 September all three members 
of the Committee were considered to be independent.  
Mr Edick ceased to be independent from 15 September, but 
remained on the Committee. He resigned from the Committee 
on 25 November and Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud, who is 
independent, was appointed to the Committee on the same 
date. Therefore, for the period from 15 September 2014 to 25 
November 2014 a majority of the members of the Committee, 
excluding the Chairman, were not independent and from the 
appointment of Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud on 25 November 
2014 all members of the Committee (excluding the Chairman) 
were independent. 
 — Remuneration Committee 
The Code requires that the Committee should comprise 
a minimum of three Directors, all of whom should be 
independent. The Committee was re-constituted on  
21 February 2014 with three members: Dr Jean-Jacques 
Garaud (Chair of the Committee); Dr Tim Corn and Mr Paul 
Edick. For the period from 21 February to 14 September all 
three members of the Committee were considered to be 
independent. However, Mr Edick ceased to be independent 
from 15 September, but remained on the Committee until  
9 February 2015 when he was replaced by Ms Lota Zoth, who 
is independent. Therefore, for the period from 15 September 
2014 to 9 February 2015 the composition of the Committee 
did not comply with the requirements of the Code insofar 
as they relate to the number of independent Directors. On 
9 February, following the appointment of Ms Lota Zoth, the 
Committee complied with the membership requirements of 
the Code for independence.
 — Audit Committee 
The Code requires that the Committee should comprise 
a minimum of three Directors, all of whom should be 
independent. The Committee was constituted on 21 February 
2014 with three members: Ms Cathrin Petty (Chair of the 
Committee); Dr Tim Corn; and Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud. 
Ms Petty has recent and relevant financial experience but is 
not considered to be independent. She will remain on the 
Committee until 27 February 2015 when she will be replaced 
by Ms Lota Zoth, who is independent. Therefore, for the period 
from 21 February 2014 to 27 February 2015 the composition 
of the Committee does not comply with the requirements of 
the Code insofar as they relate to the number of independent 
Directors. Following the appointment of Ms Lota Zoth on 27 
February 2015, the Audit Committee will comply with the 
membership requirements of the Code for independence.
The Board confirms that in all other respects, the Group has fully 
complied with the principles of the Code throughout the year 
to 31 December 2014 and up to the date of this report. Details 
of Directors’ remuneration, as required by the Code and Part 4 
to Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013, 
are set out in the Remuneration Committee report.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 37 Board Committees
The Board has three Committees: the Audit Committee; the 
Nomination Committee; and the Remuneration Committee, to 
which it delegates specific responsibilities. The reports of these 
Committees and details of their composition form part of the 
Corporate governance report.
Each Committee has full terms of reference which have been 
approved by the Board and also appear on the website at  
www.circassia.co.uk. These terms of reference are reviewed 
annually. The Board provides the Committees with sufficient 
resources, including access to external advisers, as may be 
required in order to fulfil their roles.
Board meetings
The Board aims to meet at least five times during the year. 
Additional meetings may be arranged where urgent matters arise. 
These additional meetings may be held by telephone.
The table below sets out the attendance of the Directors, while 
they were Board members, at scheduled meetings which occurred 
during the year to 31 December 2014.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud has been Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director since 21 February 2014. He works closely with 
the Chairman to resolve any significant issues which may arise 
and is responsible for the annual evaluation of the Chairman’s 
performance, for leading the other Non-Executive Directors in their 
oversight of the Chairman, and for ensuring there is a clear division 
of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive 
Officer. He is available to communicate directly with Shareholders if 
they have concerns which cannot be resolved through the normal 
channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, or  
Chief Financial Officer.
Non-Executive Directors
The role of the Non-Executive Directors, and of the Committees 
of which they are members, is to scrutinise the performance of 
management, satisfy themselves that the financial and risk control 
mechanisms are robust, and determine appropriate levels of 
Executive pay. They have wide ranging experience of industry and 
bring their judgement to bear in the decision making process of 
the Board. Their seniority and range of skills ensure that no one 
individual can dominate this process.
Corporate governance continued
 
Committee 
Memberships
6
Independent 
status Board
Nomination 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
 
Remuneration 
Committee
Executive Directors      
Steven Harris n/a n/a 7 (7) 3 (3) 
1
3 (3) 
1
4 (4) 
1
Julien Cotta n/a n/a 7 (7) 3 (3) 
2
3 (3) 
2
4 (4) 
2
Rod Hafner n/a n/a 7 (7) – – –
Charles Swingland 
3
n/a n/a 3 (3)   
Non-Executive Directors
Francesco Granata N (Chair) Yes 7 (7) 3 (3) – –
Jean-Jacques Garaud A, R (Chair), N
4
Yes 7 (7) – 3 (3) 4 (4)
Tim Corn N, A, R Yes 7 (7) 3 (3) 3 (3) 4 (4)
Russell Cummings – No 7 (7) – – 1
1
Paul R Edick N
5
, R Yes
7
 No
8
7 (7) 3 (3) – 4 (4)
Cathrin Petty A (Chair) No 7 (7) – 3 (3) 1
1
Charles Swingland – No 4 (4) – – –
 
1
 By invitation
2
 In the capacity of Secretary to the Committee
3
 Charles Swingland was an Executive Director from 1 January 2014 to 18 March 2014 and was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 18 March 2014
4
 Jean-Jacques Garaud was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 25 November 2014
5
 Paul Edick resigned from the Nomination Committee on 25 November 2014
6
 N = Nomination Committee, R = Remuneration Committee, A = Audit Committee
7
 Independent for the period 1 January 2014 to 14 September 2014
8
 Not independent for the period 15 September 2014 onwards
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 38 Diversity
The Board recognises the value of diversity at all levels of the 
Group. The Group has an Equal Treatment, Equal Opportunities 
and Diversity policy which extends to the Board. This provides that 
the Group will take all reasonable steps to employ and promote 
employees on the basis of their abilities and qualifications without 
regard to age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and civil 
partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race (including colour, 
nationality and ethnic or national origins), religion or belief, sex and/
or sexual orientation. The Group appoints, trains, develops and 
promotes on the basis of merit and ability alone.
Induction and training
Upon appointment, each Director receives a comprehensive 
induction package which includes written materials relevant to 
their responsibilities. In addition, meetings are organised with 
other Board members and with members of the Company’s 
management team.
All Directors have direct access to the advice of the Company 
Secretary. Whenever it is considered necessary, the Company 
Secretary can arrange the appointment of professional advisers  
at the Group’s expense to assist Board members in their roles.
Directors receive frequent updates on commercial developments 
affecting the business as well as regulatory and legislative changes. 
Directors are invited, during the annual evaluation procedure, to 
identify any training which they feel might benefit them.
Information
In advance of each Board Meeting, Directors receive a full agenda 
and a comprehensive set of papers which include commercial and 
functional reports. A procedure is in place to ensure that these 
materials are delivered to the Board in a timely fashion. Senior 
employees of the business regularly attend meetings in order to 
enhance the Non-Executive Directors’ understanding of current 
issues and give them the opportunity to ask detailed questions.
Commitment
The Board is satisfied that the other commitments of the 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors – which are set out in their 
biographies – leave them with sufficient time to diligently perform 
their role for the Group.
Performance evaluation
Formal Board evaluations are carried out once a year, and informal 
evaluations are carried out on a continuing basis throughout the 
year. The formal evaluation commences with the circulation of a 
written questionnaire which has been prepared by the Company 
Secretary with the assistance of the Auditors. This invites Directors 
to rate and comment on the performance of the Board in a number 
of areas, including the conduct of Board meetings; the standard 
and timeliness of information; the balance of skills of the members of 
the Board; the roles and responsibilities of individual Directors; and 
compliance with good corporate governance practices. A detailed, 
anonymised analysis of these responses is then prepared by the 
Company Secretary and reviewed and discussed by the Board.
The Board intends to subject itself to an external review every  
third year.
Re-election
All Directors have service contracts which are capable of 
termination on giving a fixed period of notice. In the case of the 
Executive Directors this notice period is six months and in the case 
of the Non-Executive Directors and Chairman it is three months.
All Directors are subject to re-election by Shareholders on an  
annual basis.
 
Board activity
The Board’s main activities during the course of the year included:
 — Preparation for and oversight of the Company’s successful 
Initial Public Offering of its shares on the Main Market of the 
London Stock Exchange;
 — Reviews of the progress of the Group’s clinical trials;
 — Reviews of the progress of business and corporate 
development activity and opportunities;
 — Assessment of the financial performance against the  
budget for FY 2014;
 — Approval of the budget for FY 2015 – 2017;
 — Completion of a Board evaluation exercise;
 — Approval of terms of reference for the committees.
Effectiveness
Independence
The Board reviews the independence of its Non-Executive 
Directors each year. For the period 1 January to 20 February 2014, 
excluding the Chairman, four of the nine Board members were 
Non-Executive Directors who were considered by the Board to  
be independent. For the period 21 February to 14 September,  
three out of nine were considered to be independent and from  
15 September to 31 December two out of nine were considered  
to be independent. 
Dr Tim Corn, Paul R Edick, and Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud have all 
participated in the Company’s unapproved share option scheme 
in the past. However, this scheme is unrelated to performance, 
such participation was historic, and no further share options will 
be granted to any of these Directors. The Board has therefore 
determined that it regards Dr Tim Corn, Paul R Edick and Dr 
Jean-Jacques Garaud as independent Non-Executive Directors 
within the meaning of “independent” as defined in the Code for the 
period 1 January 2014 to 14 September 2014. From 15 September 
2014, Mr Paul Edick was determined by the Board to no longer be 
independent as Mr Edick’s wife began employment with the Group 
as Chief Commercial Officer.
The Board also carefully reviews any actual or potential conflicts 
of interest that may arise due to the commercial interests of Non-
Executive Directors and they are required to make a declaration in 
respect of any such situations. The Board can confirm that no such 
conflicts of interest arose in the year. As is noted in their respective 
biographies, Cathrin Petty is an employee of JP Morgan and 
Russ Cummings is an employee of Imperial Innovations. For these 
reasons, Russ Cummings and Cathrin Petty are considered by the 
Board not to be independent.
The Code indicates that a tenure of more than nine years as a 
Non-Executive Director could be relevant to a determination of 
independence. It is confirmed that none of the Independent  
Non-Executive Directors have served for more than nine years.
The Board further confirms that Dr Francesco Granata was 
independent upon his appointment.
Appointments to the Board
The procedure for appointment of new Directors to the Board 
is formal, rigorous and transparent. The process is led by the 
Nomination Committee which comprises the Chairman and 
independent Non-Executive Directors. Shortlisted candidates 
are interviewed by members of the Committee before a 
recommendation is made to the Board.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 39 Written policies and procedures
 — There are documented quality procedures which ensure 
regulatory compliance. Regular reviews take place to ensure 
standards are maintained and the Company is fully prepared 
for a regulatory inspection. The Head of Quality and her team 
monitor internal and external (Contract Research Organisation) 
compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice, Good Clinical 
Practice, and Good Laboratory Practice and organise training 
for employees.
 — There are controls in place which determine how financial 
information is validated, consolidated and reviewed.
 — There are specific controls on expenditure. Material 
investments or capital expenditure must be approved by 
the Board. Normal expenditure is controlled by setting limits 
which are determined by the CEO and CFO within a general 
framework approved by the Board.
 — Detailed management accounts are prepared on a monthly 
basis and provided to the Board. Accompanying reports will 
explain any variances between these results and the budget.
 — R&D Committee meets on a weekly basis to review 
performance of the various clinical trials and implement action 
plans to prevent delays.
 — The Patents Committee meets regularly to assess the scope of 
protection provided by pending and granted patents, organise 
the defence of granted patents, and plan new filings where 
appropriate. This group also manages registered trade marks.
 — There are physical and electronic procedures in place to ensure 
the security and integrity of data and confidential information.  
A Data Protection Policy is in place.
 — An established policy exists for share dealing by employees or 
connected persons.
 — There is a Health and Safety Officer and a documented Health 
and Safety Policy.
 — There is a Whistleblowing Policy which enables employees 
to communicate concerns regarding improper activity to a 
trusted individual who is not their line manager or a member  
of the operational management team.
 — There is a documented anti-bribery and corruption policy.
 — There is a Disclosure Committee, as required by the Market 
Abuse Directive, comprising the Chief Executive Officer, Chief 
Financial Officer, and the Head of Corporate Communications. 
This group maintains an Insider List recording employees and 
external parties who may have access to inside information. 
Individuals are notified of their addition to and removal from the 
list and are appraised of their responsibilities.
No failure of controls or breach of internal policies was  
recorded during the year to 31 December 2014 and up to the  
date of this report.
Accountability
The Board acknowledges its duty to present a fair, balanced  
and understandable view of the Group’s position and prospects. 
A description of the Group’s business model is contained in the 
Strategic report. The Statement of Directors’ responsibilities sets 
out information regarding the Directors’ responsibility to prepare 
financial statements. The Independent Auditors’ report includes  
a statement by the Auditor on its reporting responsibilities.
The role of the Audit Committee is set out in detail in the Audit 
Committee report.
The Board is responsible for determining the significant risks 
which the Group is prepared to take in order to attain its strategic 
objectives, and keeps the risk management procedures and 
internal controls of the business under regular review. The Board 
confirms that it is satisfied that the current procedures and controls 
are sufficient to ensure compliance with the Code.
After taking advice from the Audit Committee, the Board is able to 
confirm that the Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole is 
fair, balanced, and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for Shareholders to judge the Group’s strategy, business 
model and performance.
Risk management system
The risk management system is set out in the Corporate  
governance report. The system is designed to manage risks, not 
to eliminate them completely, and can only provide a reasonable 
degree of assurance against material misstatement or loss. Inherent 
in the concept of reasonable assurance is the recognition that 
the cost of a control procedure should not exceed its anticipated 
benefits. The significant risks facing the Group are set out in the 
Strategic review.
The Board confirms that it has conducted a review of the  
Group’s risk management and internal controls systems, including 
financial, operational and compliance controls and has found  
them to be effective.
Internal controls
The Audit Committee reviews the Group’s financial controls  
on an annual basis and makes recommendations to the Board 
where improvements are required. The efficacy of non-financial 
control systems are reviewed by the full Board as required by the 
Turnbull guidance.
Circassia’s primary risk control systems are as follows:
Management structure
 — There is a management structure with clear lines of 
responsibility and accountability. Employees are recruited 
when they have the appropriate skills and experience to 
perform their intended roles.
 — The Board sets the overall strategy and reviews the 
performance of the Group.
 — The Group’s Senior Management Team, chaired by the Chief 
Executive Officer, is responsible for day to day operations. 
Other team members include the Chief Financial Officer  
and senior staff members from the business. This team  
meets weekly. 
 
 
Corporate governance continued
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 40 Audit Committee report 
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present Circassia’s Audit 
Committee report for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Audit Committee is the key independent oversight Committee 
at Circassia. It monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the 
Group’s risk management framework and internal controls.
This report sets out how the Committee has discharged its 
responsibilities under the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the “Code”). It also contains a summary of the activities of the 
Committee throughout the year.
Cathrin Petty 
Chair of the Audit Committee 
26 February 2015
Responsibilities
The Committee has responsibility for monitoring the integrity 
of the financial statements of the Group, and for reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal control systems and risk 
management systems, including reviewing its risk profile.
Accordingly, the Committee performs a detailed review of the 
interim and annual financial statements, considering whether the 
accounting policies have been applied properly and consistently 
and whether the disclosures made in the Annual report and 
accounts are compliant with financial reporting standards, and  
with corporate governance and regulatory requirements.
The Committee also manages the relationship with the external 
Auditors on behalf of the Board. It monitors the independence of 
the Auditor and reviews the effectiveness of the audit procedure. 
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board regarding 
the appointment of the external Auditors and reviews their terms 
of engagement. The Committee has access to the services of 
the external Auditors and, if necessary, may appoint external 
accounting and legal advisers to assist it with its work.
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the website. 
They cover issues such as membership, the frequency of meetings, 
together with requirements for a quorum and the right to attend 
meetings. The duties of the Committee as set out in the terms 
of reference include financial and regulatory reporting; internal 
controls; internal audit; external audit; risk management; and 
reporting responsibilities.
Membership
The names of the members of the Audit Committee, their dates of 
appointment, and the number of meetings attended during the year 
are set out in the table below:
Member Date of appointment
Meetings 
attended (held)
C Petty 21 February 2014 3 (3)
T Corn 21 February 2014 3 (3)
J-J Garaud 21 February 2014 3 (3)
 
The Committee was chaired throughout the year by Cathrin Petty, 
who has recent and relevant financial experience.
Remuneration
The Board has adopted a remuneration policy which it believes 
is sufficient to attract, retain, and motivate Directors of the quality 
required to run the Group successfully, but which does not result in 
payment of more than is necessary for this purpose. A significant 
proportion of Executive Directors’ pay is linked to corporate and 
individual performance. Full details of the policy are set out in the 
Remuneration Committee report. 
Relations with Shareholders
Dialogue with Shareholders
The Board maintains regular communication with Shareholders. 
Meetings between material Shareholders and the Executive 
Directors take place throughout the year. The Chairman and Senior 
independent Non-Executive Director and other Directors are 
available to meet with major Shareholders on request.
All meetings with Shareholders are held in a manner which ensures 
price sensitive information which has not been made available to 
Shareholders generally is protected from disclosure.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer give 
annual and six-monthly presentations to institutional investors, 
analysts, and the media. These presentations are available on the 
website. Annual and Interim reports and all press releases are also 
published on the website as are the terms of reference of the three 
Board committees. Paper copies of the report and accounts are 
mailed to those Shareholders who have elected to receive them.
The Directors receive a report from the Corporate Communications 
department at each Board Meeting giving information on material 
changes in shareholdings and collating feedback from the 
Company’s brokers and investors.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM provides an opportunity for all Shareholders to meet 
Board members and have the opportunity to ask about the 
proposed resolutions and the business in general.
In addition, the Chairs of the Audit, Nomination, and Remuneration 
Committees will be present at the AGM to answer Shareholders’ 
questions.
Notice of the AGM is posted to Shareholders not less than 20 
working days prior to the date of the AGM and is also available to 
Shareholders on the website at www.circassia.co.uk. The letter 
accompanying the Notice will include details of the proposed 
resolutions and an explanation of their content.
At the AGM the number of proxy votes cast for, against, or 
abstaining from each resolution will be disclosed. Results of voting 
are posted on the website and announced to the market as soon 
as possible after the AGM.
The Group does not currently consider it appropriate to introduce 
mandatory poll voting on all resolutions put to the Shareholders but 
will keep this position under review.
 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 41 Financial reporting
During the year to 31 December 2014 and up to the date of 
this report, the Committee reviewed the interim management 
statements, the Interim report and accounts for the period ended 
30 June 2014, and the preliminary announcement and Annual 
report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Significant accounting matters
The Committee considered the following key accounting issues, 
judgements and disclosures during the course of the year:
 — Completeness of accruals;
 — Measuring the fair value of awards under new share option 
schemes and the related accounting treatment;
 — Accounting for IPO costs;
 — Accounting for the changes in the capital structure as a result 
of the IPO; and
 — Going concern and liquidity.
The Code provides that all members of the Audit Committee should 
be independent Non-Executive Directors. Cathrin Petty is not 
considered by the Board to be independent and so the Company 
has not complied with the provisions of the Code in this respect 
throughout the year. However Lota Zoth has been appointed as 
an additional independent Non-Executive Director. Ms Zoth was 
appointed to the Board on 9 February 2015 and will be appointed 
as the new Chair of the Audit Committee on 27 February 2015.  
Ms Zoth has significant recent and relevant financial experience. 
She is currently a Non-Executive Director, Compensation 
Committee Member and the Audit Committee Chair at Hyperion 
Therapeutics Inc and NewLink Genetics Corporation. She is 
also a Non-Executive Director and the Audit Committee Chair at 
Orexigen Therapeutics Inc., She was also Chief Financial Officer 
and Senior Vice President at MedImmune, LLC from 2004 to 2007 . 
The Audit Committee will therefore be in compliance with the 
Code’s requirement for membership of independent Non-Executive 
Directors from 27 February 2015 following the appointment of  
Lota Zoth.
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the Committee. 
The CEO attends Committee meetings at the invitation of the Chair. 
The Chairman meets with the external Auditors at least once a year 
in the absence of management.
A summary of the matters considered by the Committee since the 
last financial statements is shown in the table below and explained 
in further detail in the subsequent text:
Corporate governance continued
Area of review Activities undertaken
Financial reporting Review of the interim and full year results. 
Consideration of whether the Annual report is fair, balanced, and understandable. 
Review of the external Auditors’ reports on the interim and full year results. 
Review of trading updates. 
Review of significant accounting issues (see below). 
Review of anticipated changes in accounting standards and their impact. 
Review of the going concern basis of preparation of the financial statements.
External Auditor Review of external Auditors’ independence. 
Review of Auditors compliance with ethical and professional guidance on audit partner rotation. 
Assess effectiveness of audit process. 
Recommend re-appointment of Auditors.
Risk management and  
internal control
Review of risk management systems, internal controls, and anti-corruption and  
anti-bribery procedures. 
Review of internal compliance monitoring. 
Review of the Whistleblowing policy.
Governance Review of the Committee’s terms of reference.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 42 Accounting for the changes in the capital structure  
as a result of the IPO
Immediately prior to the admission of shares onto the main market 
for listed securities of the London Stock Exchange, the Company 
converted Preference shares into Ordinary shares and issued 
liquidation shares to the Preference Shareholders. Loan notes  
were also converted into Ordinary shares.
On 18 March 2014 each 10p Ordinary share was subdivided into 
125 x 0.08p Ordinary shares. In addition, new Ordinary shares were 
issued as part of the admission onto the London Stock Exchange 
on 18 March.
Share options have also been exercised by employees during the 
year under the EMI option scheme.
As a result of these transactions, the capital structure of the 
Company has been significantly altered. There is a risk that the 
accounting and disclosure implications of these agreements have 
not been correctly reflected in the financial statements.
Risk management and internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the review of the Group’s 
risk management framework and the level of risk which is 
acceptable in order to achieve its strategic objectives. The 
Committee, on behalf of the Board, undertakes the detailed 
monitoring of the risk management framework and system of 
internal controls and reports to the Board on their suitability and 
efficacy annually.
In order to discharge its duties in this respect, the Committee 
receives and reviews reports from the Group’s management team. 
The Committee continues to assess what is an acceptable level 
of risk in key areas, and the best strategy for mitigating those risks 
given the cost and time constraints which exist.
Whistleblowing
A confidential whistleblowing procedure has been put in place to 
enable employees to raise concerns regarding possible improprieties 
in relation to financial or other matters. This procedure has been 
communicated to all staff. The Committee has reviewed these 
arrangements and is satisfied that the current procedure allows for 
proportionate and independent investigation of such disclosures, and 
for appropriate follow up actions to be taken. In accordance with the 
current policy, concerned employees may raise matters directly with 
the Chair of the Committee.
UK Bribery Act
The Group has an anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy which has 
been communicated to all staff. This policy ensures full compliance 
with the UK Bribery Act 2010. The policy extends to carrying out 
due diligence on new key business partners who are judged to be 
acting on behalf of the Group in high risk areas.
Internal audit
This year the Committee considered whether there is a need for 
an internal audit function and concluded that, given the scale of 
operations at this time, it is not currently necessary. The Board 
accepted this recommendation. This decision will be kept under 
review.
External audit
The Group’s external Auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
(PwC), is engaged to express its opinion on the Group’s financial 
statements.
Completeness of accruals
The Group is a clinical-stage specialty biopharmaceutical group 
focused on the development and commercialisation of a range of 
immunotherapy products for the treatment of allergies. 
The research operations of the Group are outsourced to Clinical 
Research Organisations (CROs) who submit applications for 
payment at regular intervals throughout the clinical trials.
During the year research and development costs for the Group 
totalled £38.8 million of which £4.5 million was accrued at year  
end in relation to invoices not yet received.
The appropriate timing and accuracy of these costs between 
financial periods requires close monitoring. Submissions for 
payment by suppliers do not always correspond to the periods in 
which the underlying activities occurred, making the underlying 
calculations for the accruals more complex.
Measuring the fair value of awards under new share option 
schemes and the related accounting treatment
The accounting treatment for share options can be complex 
and involve judgement regarding the appropriate treatment and 
calculation of fair values. Prior to the IPO, Circassia had a small 
number of share options under EMI approved schemes which gave 
rise to a charge of £98,000 in the year ended 31 December 2013. 
Following the IPO process a further 2,206,611 share options were 
issued under a new performance share scheme. 
The newly granted share options were valued under the Black 
Scholes model or Monte Carlo model dependent on the 
performance vesting conditions.
The fair value determined drives the charge recognised by the 
Company.
The IPO has increased the value of the shares in the Group used 
in the share options calculation and therefore has increased the 
share options charge. As a result the risk of a material error or 
misstatement is significantly increased. In addition the new  
scheme includes market vesting performance conditions for  
some of the options granted which makes the fair value calculation 
more complex. 
As a result there is a risk that the fair value of options could be 
measured incorrectly.
Accounting for IPO costs
The Group incurred £9.6 million of costs in completing the IPO 
in March 2014. Incremental costs that are directly attributable to 
the equity transaction are accounted for through equity, with the 
remaining costs through the income statement. There is an element 
of judgement and allocation in this treatment.
Management performed an allocation of IPO related transaction 
costs by considering the type of expenditure incurred and whether 
it meets the criteria to be considered directly attributable to the 
issue of shares. From this determination, £9.4 million was attributed 
to equity. There is a risk that these costs do not qualify as directly 
attributable to the equity transaction and, as such, should have 
been recorded in the income statement.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 43 Audit partner rotation
PwC adheres to a rotation policy which complies with the ethical 
standards of the Audit Practices Board (the “APB”) and the audit 
partner is rotated every five years. Simon Ormiston, the current 
audit partner was appointed for the year ended 31 December 2014 
and is not due for rotation until completion of the year ended  
31 December 2018.
Tendering
PwC has been the Company’s Auditor since the year ended  
31 December 2007 . The Committee is actively monitoring the EU 
audit directive and ongoing discussions in this area at the Financial 
Reporting Council, the EU and the Competition Commission. In 
view of the changes to the regulatory requirements relating to 
mandatory audit tendering, the Committee expects to conduct  
an audit tender at the latest prior to contracting the 2017 year- 
end audit. 
Reappointment
Each year the Committee considers the reappointment of the 
external Auditor and makes a recommendation to the Board. 
In doing so the Committee considers the effectiveness and 
independence of the external Auditor. The judgement of the 
Committee is that PwC continues to deliver an effective and 
independent service.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended to the Board that 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP be reappointed as the Company’s 
Auditor for a further year. This recommendation has been accepted 
by the Board.
The Committee will continue to monitor the changes proposed by 
the UK Competition Commission and European Commission in 
respect of Auditor services and re-tendering.
Committee evaluation
A review of the effectiveness of the Committee was carried out 
in November 2014 as part of the process of evaluating Board 
effectiveness.
Cathrin Petty 
Chair of the Audit Committee
26 February 2015
 
Effectiveness
The effectiveness of the external audit process is reviewed annually 
by the Committee. This review encompasses an examination of the 
independence, qualifications, capabilities, and remuneration of the 
Auditor. If issues are identified which may affect the effectiveness 
of the process then actions will be agreed. No such issues were 
identified in the year to 31 December 2014 or up to the date of this 
report.
At the end of the audit for the year ended 31 December 2014 the 
Committee formally evaluated the performance of PwC. To conduct 
this evaluation the Committee completed a questionnaire to assess 
robustness of the audit process, quality of its delivery, quality of 
reporting, and quality of the individuals and service. Moreover, the 
Committee takes into account the quality of its interactions with the 
Auditor in forming a view on their effectiveness.
Independence
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the independence and 
objectivity of the external Auditor. Each year the external Auditor 
confirms its policies for ensuring its independence and provides 
the Committee with written confirmation that they continue to be 
independent. 
The Committee pays careful regard to whether non-audit work is 
carried out by the Auditor so as to ensure that the provision of such 
additional services does not impair its independence or objectivity. 
A formal process exists for approving the use of the Auditor for 
non-audit work. There is no automatic restriction on the Auditor 
providing such services, but the Auditor should not be appointed 
to provide non-audit services which might put the Auditor in 
the position of auditing its own work or create a mutual interest 
between the Group and the Auditor or result in the Auditor acting 
as an advocate, manager, or employee of the Group.
PwC undertook non-audit services for the Group in the course  
of the year to 31 December 2014 which are summarised in the 
table below. These services were provided in compliance with the 
policy outlined above and no conflicts of interest were considered 
to have arisen.
Committee approval 
required? Nature of work
Fees  
£’000
Other assurance services 223
No Taxation 5
No Treasury services 10
The total fees paid to the Auditor are shown in note 7 of the financial 
statements. The other assurance services during the year related 
to procedures performed as reporting accountant on historical 
financial information. The Committee believes that the use of PwC 
was appropriate in the circumstances and that independence was 
preserved as the nature of the non-audit services was such that 
the external Auditor was best placed to perform this work due to 
their skills and experience and the fees paid were insignificant in the 
context of the overall revenues earned by PwC.
In summary, the Committee confirms that the Group has received 
an independent audit service in the year to 31 December 2014 and 
up to 26 February 2015.
Corporate governance continued
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 44 The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.  
The Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings by invitation.
The Committee is empowered to obtain external professional  
advice to assist in the performance of its duties. During the year  
the Committee has retained the services of executive search firm 
Spencer Stuart as explained below.
Activities
The principal activities during the year were:
 — Review of the structure, size and composition of the  
Board (including skills, experience, independence,  
knowledge and diversity);
 — Appointments of Board members and Committee  
members; and
 — Annual performance evaluation of the Board, its members  
and its Committees.
The status of the Non-Executive Directors with respect to 
compliance with the independence requirements of the code  
is set out in the Corporate governance report.
During the year the Committee appointed the executive search 
firm Spencer Stuart to assist it in identifying a further independent 
Non-Executive Director and on 9 February 2015, Lota Zoth was 
appointed to the Board and on 27 February 2015 will be appointed 
as the new Chair of the Audit Committee. 
Appointment procedure
There is a formal and transparent procedure by which new 
Directors are appointed to the Board. Suitable candidates are 
proposed either by existing Board members or by an external 
search firm. The Committee will then assess whether the candidate 
has the requisite skills and experience for the role, sufficient time to 
perform it, and that their appointment will preserve or improve the 
balance of skills, experience and knowledge of the Board.
The Committee has worked closely with Spencer Stuart, a well-
reputed executive search firm, in the course of the year in order 
to recruit an additional independent Non-Executive Director with 
financial experience who would be capable of chairing the Audit 
Committee. A list of candidates was prepared by the search firm 
and reviewed by the Committee. From this long list the Committee 
produced a short list of candidates for interview. At the conclusion 
of this process the Committee recommended to the Board that 
Lota Zoth be appointed.
Ms Zoth has been appointed under a service contract which 
provides for a notice period of three months.
Diversity
The Company has an Equal Treatment, Equal Opportunities and 
Diversity policy which extends to the Board. The appointment procedure 
described above is carried out in full compliance with this policy.
Chairman’s commitments
In accordance with provision B.3.1 of the Code, it is confirmed that 
the Chairman’s other significant commitments are as disclosed in 
the biography which appears in the Corporate governance report 
and that they have not changed in the course of the year.
Committee evaluation
A review of the effectiveness of the Committee was carried out 
in November 2014 as part of the process of evaluating Board 
effectiveness.
Dr Francesco Granata 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
26 February 2015
Nomination Committee report 
 
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Circassia’s 
Nomination Committee report for the year ended 31 December 
2014. The key objective of the Committee is to ensure the Board 
is made up of a range of individuals who together have the 
appropriate mixture of skills and experience to lead the Group.
During the year the Committee considered and made 
recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment of 
Charles Swingland as a Non-Executive Director. Shortly after 
the year end, the Committee considered and recommended 
the appointment of Lota Zoth as an independent Non-Executive 
Director, and recommended that she be appointed as Chair of the 
Audit Committee in the place of Cathrin Petty and be appointed to 
the Remuneration Committee.
There follows a summary of the activities of the Committee.
Dr Francesco Granata 
Chair of the Nomination Committee
26 February 2015
Responsibilities
The Committee must review the size, structure, and composition 
of the Board and the Committees evaluating the balance of skills, 
experience, independence, and diversity of the Board as a whole. 
On the basis of this evaluation it will then make recommendations 
to the Board on any appointments. As part of this process, the 
Committee will prepare a description of the skills, experience and 
other characteristics required, and identify through a transparent 
procedure, individuals who are capable of filling those roles.
The Committee also plans for the orderly succession of Directors 
to the Board and recommends to the Board the membership and 
chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on  
the website. 
Membership and meetings
The Committee was constituted on 21 February 2014 and 
comprised Dr Tim Corn, Paul Edick and Dr Francesco Granata, the 
Chairman. All members of the Nomination Committee (excluding 
the Chairman) were considered by the Board to be independent 
from the period 21 February 2014 to 14 September 2014. On 15 
September 2014, Mr Paul Edick was no longer considered by the 
Board to be independent. Mr Paul Edick resigned on 25 November 
2014 and Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud was appointed in his place.  
From 25 November 2014 to 31 December 2014, all members of the 
Nomination Committee (excluding the Chairman) were considered 
by the Board to be independent. The Committee complied with  
the requirements of the Code for independence for the periods  
21 February 2014 to 14 September 2014 and from 25 November 
2014 following the resignation of Paul Edick and the appointment  
of Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud.
The Committee met three times during the year ended 31 
December 2014 and all members were present at each meeting.  
A summary of the composition and attendance of the Committee  
is as follows:
Member Date of appointment
Meetings 
attended (held)
Francesco Granata 21 February 2014 3 (3)
Tim Corn 21 February 2014 3 (3)
Paul Edick 21 February 2014 3 (3)
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 45 Annual statement
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Circassia’s 
Remuneration Committee report for the year ended 31 December 
2014. This report will be presented for the consideration and approval 
of Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 20 May 2015.
This report complies with the regime set out in Part 4 to Schedule 8 
of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations), the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’) and the Listing Rules. 
Accordingly it consists of three parts: (i) an Annual statement which 
summarises the key issues and explains the business context in 
which the Committee’s main decisions were taken; (ii) an unaudited 
Directors’ remuneration policy report which describes the current 
and future executive remuneration policy, and which will be put to 
a binding Shareholder vote at the AGM on 20 May 2015; and (iii) 
the Annual report on remuneration which sets out details of and 
rationale for the remuneration provided to the Group’s Directors 
during the 2014 financial year. This latter report is subject to an 
advisory vote at the AGM.
Remuneration policy
The remuneration policy which has been put to Shareholders for 
approval, promotes the long-term sustainable success of the Group 
with the aim to reward Executive Directors for performance, and 
for delivery of Shareholder value judged against transparent and 
demanding criteria. As part of this policy a significant proportion 
of potential remuneration is linked to the achievement of corporate 
and individual performance indicators. 
A new annual bonus plan was implemented for Executive Directors 
and management at Senior Vice President level for 2014, which 
in line with best practice included an element being deferred into 
shares for three years and subject to forfeiture.
Share incentive arrangements have been in effect since Admission 
which will closely align the interests of the Executive Directors with 
those of Shareholders. The earliest date of vesting under these 
schemes falls 3 years after grant subject to the achievement of 
performance conditions. Details of the awards made under these 
schemes to the Executive Directors are set out in the Annual report 
on remuneration. 
In addition, shareholding guidelines have been introduced  
for the Executive Directors and management at Senior Vice 
President level.
The Committee believes that the emphasis on performance-related 
pay, the use of bonus deferral, annual long-term incentive awards 
and mandatory share ownership guidelines, creates a clear focus 
on sustainable performance, avoids paying more than is necessary 
and maintains an ongoing alignment between Executive Directors 
and Shareholders. 
Performance and reward
As described in the Strategic report, the Group has strengthened 
the human resources of the organisation and progressed its clinical 
programmes, with encouraging results noted to date.
The bonus arrangements consisted of an element of up to 100% 
of salary linked to the achievement of annual developmental 
and operational goals and an element of up to 50% of pre-IPO 
salaries linked to the success of the IPO. The strong operational 
developments since the Company’s IPO in March 2014, were 
achieved at the same time as meeting pre-set financial targets. 
The overall performance assessment resulted in annual bonus 
payments of between 88% and 95% of salary for the Executive 
Directors. This has been paid in February as a mix of cash and 
deferred shares. 
For the element of the bonus in relation to the IPO process, the 
Committee determined bonuses of between 23% and 50% of 
pre-IPO salary would be payable. These payments were made 
in cash in January 2015. The Committee is satisfied that the total 
variable pay outcome is a fair reflection of corporate and individual 
performance throughout 2014. 
Application of policy for 2015
The Remuneration policy set out in this report will be put  
to Shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting on  
20 May 2015. 
The salaries of the Executive Directors were reviewed with effect 
from 1 January 2015 and increased in line with increases to the 
general workforce of 3%.
We welcome Shareholder feedback on these matters and hope 
that you will be able to support our policy and its application at the 
forthcoming AGM.
Jean-Jacques Garaud
Remuneration Committee Chairman
26 February 2015
Directors’ remuneration policy report (DRP)
This section of the Remuneration Committee sets out the 
remuneration policy for the Company and has been prepared 
in accordance with Part 4 of the Regulations. It also takes into 
account the provisions of the Code and the views of our major 
Shareholders. The policy report describes the policy which will be 
put to a binding Shareholder vote at the AGM on 20 May 2015. If 
approved, the Policy will formally take effect from that date and is 
expected to remain in force until the AGM in 2018.
Remuneration philosophy 
The potential levels of remuneration have been set so that they are 
competitive against those comparator companies from which the 
Group will compete for talented individuals. 
The Committee’s goal is to design and implement a remuneration 
policy which will support and reward Executive Directors for 
delivering the Group’s strategic objectives and ultimately creating 
value to Shareholders, whilst adhering to good corporate 
governance and reflecting best practice. To achieve this, the 
balance of remuneration is focused on variable performance-
related pay. In particular, to reflect the long-term nature of the 
Group’s development pipeline, variable pay is more heavily 
weighted towards long-term sustainable value creation through the 
use of share incentive plans. When combined with significant levels 
of share ownership guidelines, this creates an alignment between 
Executive Directors and Shareholders with a longer term view. 
The Committee annually reviews the operation of the variable 
incentive plans to ensure they are operating within an acceptable 
risk profile and that they do not inadvertently encourage any 
economic, social or governance issues. 
Remuneration policy
The total remuneration for each Executive Director is made up of 
the following elements:
 — Salary;
 — Benefits;
 — Annual bonus;
 — Long-term incentive awards; and
 — Pension.
Recovery and withholding provisions will apply to the bonus and 
long-term incentive arrangements in specific circumstances as 
determined appropriate by the Remuneration Committee. 
Remuneration Committee report
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 46 Salary Benefits Annual bonus
Purpose and link to strategy 
Provides fixed remuneration in-line with 
market rates that reflects the responsibilities 
of the role undertaken and the experience 
of the individual.
Purpose and link to strategy
Provides market competitive, yet cost-
effective employment benefits.
Purpose and link to strategy
To incentivise and recognise execution 
of the business strategy and personal 
objectives on an annual basis.
Operation 
Set at an approximately mid-market level 
and reviewed annually taking into account 
individual responsibilities, performance, 
inflation, and market rates. The Committee 
will also consider the pay and employment 
conditions in the wider workforce when 
determining Executive Directors’ salaries.
Salary increases are normally effective from 
1 January each year.
Salaries are periodically benchmarked 
against a relevant peer group of UK 
listed companies with similar market 
capitalisations and operations.
Operation
For Executive Directors this includes private 
medical insurance, travel and life insurance.
Other employment benefits may be 
provided from time to time on similar terms 
as those of other employees.
If the Company introduces an all-employee 
share plan, Executive Directors will be 
eligible to participate on the same terms as 
other employees.
If an Executive Director is based outside the 
UK additional benefits and assistance with 
relocation may be provided which reflect 
local market norms or legislation.
Operation
Annual bonus performance targets are 
set at the start of the year by the Board 
and performance against objectives is 
assessed by the Remuneration Committee.
Bonuses will be paid as a mix of cash and 
deferred shares. Until the share ownership 
guidelines are reached, the bonus will be 
payable as 50% cash and 50% shares. 
Thereafter, the bonus will be payable as 
75% cash and 25% shares.
Bonus shares are deferred for three years 
from the date of the award and are subject 
to forfeiture.
Recovery and withholding provisions will 
apply in the event of mis-statement of 
results, error in performance calculation or 
gross misconduct 
A dividend equivalent, if payable, will be 
payable in cash when the shares vest.
Maximum potential value
The current base salaries are set out in 
the Implementation of policy section of the 
Annual report on remuneration.
There is no formal maximum limit, but 
increases are generally in line with those of 
the wider workforce. 
Larger increases may be permitted to 
reflect a change in responsibilities or 
a significant increase in the scale or 
complexity of the role.
Maximum potential value
There is no formal maximum limit as the 
value of insured benefits will vary from year 
to year based on the cost from third-party 
providers. 
Maximum potential value
The maximum payable for all Executive 
Directors is 100% of salary.
Performance metrics
The overall performance of the individual 
and Company is a key determinant for 
salary increases.
Performance metrics
None.
Performance metrics
Research and development, business 
development, financial and operational 
targets are set at the start of the year by the 
Board. The weighting for each performance 
measure is determined by the Remuneration 
Committee and may vary for each Executive 
Director according to their role and reflecting 
their objectives for the year.
Details of the performance measures for 
the current year are provided in the Annual 
report on remuneration.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 47 Remuneration Committee report continued
Performance share plan (PSP) Pension
Purpose and link to strategy
To align the interests of management with Shareholder interests 
and to enhance retention of staff.
To incentivise and recognise achievement of longer term business 
objectives and sustained superior Shareholder value creation.
Purpose and link to strategy
To provide a competitive and cost-effective, level of retirement 
provision.
Operation
Conditional awards or options from the Performance Share 
Plan are granted annually. The awards vest provided certain 
performance conditions, which have been approved by the Board, 
are achieved over a period of at least three years.
Performance targets are set at the start of each performance period.
Recovery and withholding provisions apply for reasons of mis-
statement of results, error in performance calculation or gross 
misconduct. 
Operation
Executive Directors are eligible to join a defined contribution 
pension scheme. 
Alternatively a cash supplement (or a combination of contribution 
and cash) can be made.
Maximum potential value
Annual awards of up to the following each year are granted to 
Executive Directors:
 — CEO 150% of salary
 — Other 125% of salary
In special circumstances (such as a recruitment) an award of up to 
300% of salary is permitted. 
Dividend equivalents may be payable on vested awards. 
Maximum potential value
The maximum contribution, cash supplement (or combination 
thereof) payable by the Company is 15% of salary.
Performance metrics
Awards are currently subject to a combination of relative Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) and clinical progression timelines for 
Executive Directors.
No more than 25% of the maximum award will vest for achieving 
the threshold performance level.
The weighting of these performance measures, the choice of 
comparators for relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and/or 
the inclusion of additional performance measures will be reviewed 
annually by the Committee, reflecting the strategic objectives and 
priorities of the following three year performance period. 
If the Committee determines a material change to the performance 
measures used for future awards is required to reflect a change in 
strategy, this would only be made following appropriate dialogue 
with the Company’s major Shareholders.
Performance metrics
None.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 48 Share ownership guidelines
Purpose and link to strategy
To align Executives with Shareholders and provide an ongoing incentive for continued performance.
Operation
Only shares which are fully owned with no outstanding vesting criteria count towards the shareholding guideline. 
Executive Directors will be required to retain half of any post-tax awards which vest under long-term incentive plans, until the share 
ownership guideline has been satisfied.
Maximum potential value
Executive Directors are required to build and maintain the following minimum level of shareholding:
 — CEO 150% of salary
 — Other Executive Directors 100% of salary
Performance metrics
None.
The Committee operates the annual bonus and Performance Share 
Plan (PSP), in accordance with their rules, and where relevant, the 
Listing Rules. To maintain an efficient administrative process, the 
Committee retains the following discretions relating  
to remuneration:
a. the eligibility to participate in the plans;
b. the timing of grant of awards and any payments;
c.  the size of awards and payments (subject to the maximum limits 
set out in the policy table above and the respective plan rules);
d.  the determination of whether the performance conditions have 
been met; 
e. determining a good or bad leaver under the terms of the plan;
f. dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Group;
g.  adjustments required in certain capital events such as rights 
issues, corporate restructuring, events and special dividends; 
and
h.  the annual review of performance conditions for the annual 
bonus plan and PSP .
In certain exceptional circumstances, such as a material 
acquisition/divestment of a Group business, which mean the 
original performance conditions are no longer appropriate, the 
Committee may adjust the targets, alter weightings or set different 
measures as necessary, to ensure the conditions achieve their 
original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Existing awards
Awards which were granted prior to the Company’s IPO are set out 
in the Annual report on remuneration (ARR). 
These awards remain eligible to vest, based on their original terms 
and will be disclosed in the relevant ARR as required. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 49 Remuneration Committee report continued
Performance measures 
The rationale behind each performance measure currently used in the Performance Share Plan and how it is calculated is as follows:
Performance measure Rationale
Relative TSR 
performance
Recognises outperformance and delivery of relative value to Shareholders
Relative total Shareholder return is currently measured against the FTSE 250 Index. This was chosen as a 
comparator group because it represents similar sized companies, is subject to less volatility than a smaller 
peer comparator group and is transparent for both Shareholders and participants.
The Committee will review on an annual basis the continued appropriateness of the comparator group.
Clinical and key strategic 
business objectives
Recognises the importance of R&D to future business growth
The growth of the Company and therefore delivery of value to investors is dependent on achievement of 
certain key clinical timelines.
 
The annual bonus is designed to drive the achievement of the Company’s clinical and strategic business targets. These targets  
are agreed by the Board and selected because of their importance in value creation for Shareholders. Objectives are weighted for 
Executives in proportion to the degree of responsibility for control and achievement of that objective. The weightings are agreed by the 
Remuneration Committee.
Remuneration on recruitment
The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration package of new Executive Directors. Each element of an Executive Director’s 
remuneration is set out below:
Salary Base salary will be determined based on the role, experience of the individual and the current market rate.  
It may be considered necessary to appoint a new Executive Director on a below market salary (e.g. to 
reflect limited plc board experience). In such circumstances phased increases above those of the wider 
workforce may be required over an appropriate time period, to bring the salary to the desired market level, 
subject to the continued development in the role. 
Benefits Benefits provided would be in line with those of current Executive Directors. 
Where required to meet business needs, reasonable relocation support will be provided.
In addition if it becomes necessary to appoint a new Executive Director from outside the UK, additional 
benefits may be provided to reflect local market norms or legislation. 
Annual bonus The ongoing annual bonus maximum will be in line with that outlined in the policy table for existing 
Executive Directors, pro-rated to reflect the period of service. 
Depending on the timing or nature of an appointment it may be necessary to set different initial 
performance measures and targets for the first year of appointment.
Long-term incentive 
awards
PSP awards are granted in line with the policy outlined for existing Executives. Any ongoing annual award is 
limited to that of the current CEO.  
 
An award may be made shortly following an appointment (provided the Company is not in a prohibited 
period). 
For internal appointments, existing awards will continue on their original terms. 
Pension A company contribution or cash supplement up to the maximum as outlined for current Executive 
Directors. 
Buy-out awards To enable the recruitment of exceptional talent, the Committee may determine that the buy-out of remuneration 
forfeit from a prior employer is necessary. Where possible, any replacement remuneration will be offered on a 
like-for-like basis with the forfeited awards and may be in the form of cash or shares and depending whether the 
award forgone has similar performance conditions, may or may not be subject to performance conditions. The 
value of any buy-out will be limited to the value of remuneration forfeit. Where appropriate, such awards will be 
granted under existing share plans, however, the Remuneration Committee will have discretion to make use of 
the flexibility to make awards under exemptions in the Listing Rules. 
 
Fee levels for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will be set at a level that is consistent with those of existing Non-Executive 
Directors. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 50 Exit payment policy
The Group does not have a policy of fixed term employment contracts, however, all Directors put themselves forward for re-election at the 
Annual General Meeting. Notice periods for Executive Directors’ employment contracts are 6 months and 3 months for the Chairman’s 
and Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment from either party.
The following policies and payments apply in the event that an Executive Director’s employment is terminated.
Remuneration 
element
Exit payment policy
Current service 
contracts
Termination by notice: 6 months. 
Redundancy: 6 months annual salary payable (reduced accordingly if part of the notice period is worked).
Retirement, death and ill-health, injury or disability: No termination payment.
Future service 
contracts
Termination by notice: up to 12 months’ notice, with a provision to make a payment in lieu of notice for base 
salary and benefits only. Any payment will be phased on a monthly basis and would be subject to mitigation, 
whereby the payment made can be reduced (including to zero) if appropriate alternative employment is found. 
Redundancy: annual salary payable for the relevant notice period (reduced accordingly if part of the notice 
period is worked).
Retirement, death and ill-health, injury or disability: No termination payment.
Long-term incentives 
and deferred bonuses
PSP awards are governed by the Plan Rules as approved by Shareholders. Likewise, the deferred bonus 
awards are subject to the same leaver provisions. These are summarised below.
Termination by notice: Unvested awards lapse on cessation.
Redundancy, retirement, ill health, injury or disability, transfer of employment outside of the 
Group or change of control, or any other reason the Committee determines: Unvested awards will 
vest either on the normal vesting date or if the Board decides, immediately on the participant ceasing to be in 
employment. Awards will vest subject to the extent the performance condition has been met, as determined 
by the Remuneration Committee. Awards will be pro-rated for time, unless the Committee determines 
otherwise.
Death: Unvested awards will vest on the date of death. Awards will be pro-rated for time, unless the 
Committee determines otherwise.
Change of control: Unvested awards will vest on the date of the takeover. Awards will vest subject to the 
extent the performance condition has been met, as determined by the Remuneration Committee. Awards will 
be pro-rated for time, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Annual bonus Termination by notice by individual: if an individual serves notice and the termination date falls before  
31 December, the bonus is forfeited. If notice is served between 1 January following the year in which 
the bonus was earned and the payment date, the employee may (as determined by the Remuneration 
Committee) receive the entire bonus payable in cash, subject to malus and clawback provisions.
Redundancy, retirement, death and ill-health, or any other reason the Committee determines: if 
the termination date falls during the financial year, pro-rated for service rendered and subject to performance. 
If it falls after the end of the financial year the bonus is payable in cash based on actual results on the normal 
bonus payment date.
Termination by notice: Not normally paid, however, at the Committee’s discretion, if the termination date 
falls during the financial year, a bonus may be paid pro-rata for service rendered and subject to performance 
over the full financial year and normally paid on the normal payment date. If it falls after the end of the financial 
year bonus is payable based on actual results on the normal bonus payment date.
Benefits These will normally continue to apply until the termination date.
Pension Contributions by the Company will normally continue to apply until the termination date.
Additional payments The Committee will make payment of any statutory entitlements as necessary. In addition the Committee will 
retain the discretion to make settlement or to compromise a claim in connection with a termination of any 
Executive Directors as necessary.
Reasonable legal and outplacement costs will be met if deemed necessary.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 51 Service contracts
The following Executive Directors have service agreements with the Company which were effective from 18 March 2014 as follows:
Name Position Date of joining
Steven Harris Chief Executive Officer 19 May 2006
Rod Hafner Senior VP of R&D 1 March 2007
Julien Cotta Chief Financial Officer 5 January 2012
 
The notice period for each Executive Director is 6 months and all Executive and Non-Executive Directors put themselves forward for  
re-election at the Annual General Meeting. 
The key terms for the Letters of Appointment for Non-Executive Directors are set out below:
Name Notice period Date of joining
Dr Francesco Granata 3 months 1 September 2013
Dr Tim Corn 3 months 1 August 2006
Russell Cummings 3 months 25 January 2007
Paul Edick 3 months 3 April 2013
Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud 3 months 1 November 2012
Cathrin Petty 3 months 8 March 2010
Charles Swingland 3 months 31 May 2006
Lota Zoth 3 months 9 February 2015
 
Copies of the service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the registered office. 
 
Remuneration Committee report continued
Statement of consideration of employees’ pay and 
remuneration conditions elsewhere in the Group  
The Company does not formally consult with employees on 
the matters of Executive Director remuneration. However, the 
Committee is made aware of employment conditions in the  
wider Group.
The same broad principles apply to the remuneration policy for 
both Executive Directors and the wider employee population. 
However, the remuneration for Executive Directors has a stronger 
emphasis on performance-related pay than for other employees.  
In particular the following approach is used:
 — Salaries, benefits and pensions are compared to appropriate 
market rates and set at approximately mid-market level with 
allowance for role, responsibilities and experience.
 — When setting salary levels for the Executive Directors, the 
Committee considers the salary increases provided to other 
employees and in particular those based in the UK.
 — An annual bonus plan is available to all employees and is 
based on business and individual performance.
 — Awards from the Performance Share Plan are made to all 
current employees including Executive Directors.
Scenarios
The charts set out for illustrative purposes only, what annual 
remuneration the Company expects the Directors to obtain if 
performance levels are below threshold, meet expectations  
or exceed the maximum targets. 
The assumptions used in the calculations are set out below:
 — Fixed pay: this includes salary, pension and benefits.
 — Base salary effective 1 January 2015 and expected pension 
contribution has been used.
 — The actual monetary value of benefits received in 2014 have 
been used.
 — Expected: this includes salary, pension, benefits, annual 
bonus and PSP . This assumes that 70% of the annual bonus 
maximum will be payable for each of the Directors and 50% of 
PSP awards will vest.
 — Maximum: It is assumed that the maximum annual bonus 
would be payable and that the awards under the PSP vest  
in full.
 — No share price growth has been assumed.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 52 0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
CEO  
£’000
Senior VP R&D  
£’000
CFO  
£’000
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
1,600
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1,000
Scenarios
Expected Fixed
100%
280
47%
601
28%
25%
34%
825
29%
37%
Maximum
Fixed
Annual bonus
Long-term variable remuneration
Scenarios
Expected Fixed
100%
446
44%
1,006
27%
29%
32%
1,411
27%
41%
Maximum
Scenarios
Expected Fixed
100%
304
47%
652
28%
25%
34%
895
29%
37%
Maximum
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 53 Remuneration Committee report continued
Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board on fees payable to the Chairman. 
The Chairman does not participate in discussions in respect of fees. The Chairman and CEO are responsible for evaluating and making 
recommendations to the Board on the fees payable to the Company’s Non-Executive Directors.
Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation and maximum
Chairman’s fee To attract and retain a high calibre 
individual with the requisite experience and 
knowledge. 
The current fee is set out in the 
Implementation of policy section of the 
Annual report on remuneration. There is no 
formal maximum. 
Fees are reviewed on a periodic basis 
against those in similar sized companies 
to ensure they remain competitive and 
adequately reflect the time commitments 
and scope of the role.
Any increase in fee levels may be 
above that of the wider workforce in a 
particular year to reflect the periodic 
nature of any review and/or any change in 
responsibilities/ time commitments.
The Chairman may also receive limited 
travel and/or hospitality related benefits in 
connection with the role.
Non-Executive Director fee To attract and retain high calibre individuals 
with the requisite experience and 
knowledge. 
The current fee levels are set out in the 
Implementation of policy section of the 
Annual report on remuneration. There is no 
formal maximum. 
Fees are reviewed on a periodic basis 
against those in similar sized companies 
to ensure they remain competitive and 
adequately reflect the time commitments 
and scope of the role.
A Board fee is paid to each Non-Executive 
Director. Supplemental fees are paid to the 
Senior Independent Director and for the 
Chairing and membership of Committees to 
recognise the additional time commitments 
and responsibilities of these roles. 
Any increase in fee levels may be 
above that of the wider workforce in a 
particular year to reflect the periodic 
nature of any review and/or any change in 
responsibilities/time commitments.
Non-Executive Directors may also receive 
limited travel and/or hospitality related 
benefits in connection with the role.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 54 Statement of consideration of Shareholders’ views
The Remuneration Committee will consider any Shareholder feedback received at the AGM and at meetings throughout the year, when 
reviewing the overall remuneration policy each year. The guidance from shareholder representative bodies is also considered on an 
ongoing basis. 
More specifically the Committee will consult with major Shareholders when proposing any significant changes to the policy in the future. 
Annual report on remuneration 
This section of the Remuneration Committee report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of the Regulations as amended, and 
9.8.6R of the Listing Rules. The Annual report on remuneration will be put to an advisory Shareholder vote at the AGM on 20 May 2015. 
Composition
The Committee consisted entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the “Code”) from 1 January to 14 September 2014. From 15 September 2014, Paul Edick was considered by the 
Board to be no longer independent. On 9 February 2015 Mr Edick stood down from the Committee and was replaced by Ms Lota Zoth 
who is an independent Non-Executive Director. The composition of the Committee did not therefore comply with the recommendations of 
the Code for the period from 15 September 2014 to 9 February 2015. The terms of reference of the Committee appear on the Company’s 
website. Its members for the year ended 31 December 2014 were Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud, Dr Tim Corn, and Mr Paul R Edick. The 
Committee met four times during the year ended 31 December 2014. All three members attended all four meetings.
Responsibilities
The Committee is responsible for the following matters:
 — setting a remuneration strategy which is designed to promote the long-term success of the Company;
 — ensuring that the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior employees reflects performance and delivery of  
Shareholder value;
 — agreeing the design and targets of share incentive plans which require Shareholder approval and monitoring the achievement of 
those targets;
 — deciding on the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior employees, including any specific recruitment or retention terms;
 — making a recommendation to the Board in relation to the Chairman’s fees;
 — appointing external advisers where necessary.
Activities
A summary of the matters considered by the Committee in the course of the year ended 31 December 2014 is as follows:
Meeting Agenda items
January Review and approval of the new share incentive arrangements to be adopted on the day prior to 
Admission: the Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Performance Share Plan (the “PSP”).
January Review of the salary levels and annual bonus plan for the Executive Directors.
Review of remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
April Approval of IPO bonus and option awards for new employees.
September & November Review and approval of shareholding policy for Executive Directors and senior employees.
September & November Review and approval of policy and scheme rules for the annual bonus plan and deferred bonus 
shares for Executive Directors and senior employees.
September & November Review and approval of the Directors’ remuneration policy report.
September & November Approval of the Employee Benefit Trust Deed.
 
Advisers 
The Committee appointed New Bridge Street (NBS) (a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, part of Aon plc) to advise it on the formulation 
of the Group’s remuneration policy. NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants’ Group Code of Conduct which sets out 
guidelines to ensure that its advice is independent and free from undue influence. The fees to NBS in 2014 were £26,940, which were 
charged on the basis of a negotiated fixed fee. The Committee intends to review the performance and independence of its advisers on  
an annual basis.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 55 Committee evaluation
A review of the effectiveness of the Committee was carried out in November 2014 as part of the process of evaluating  
Board effectiveness.
Audited information 
Total remuneration – year ended 31 December 2014
The total remuneration of the individual Directors who served during the year is set out in the table below. Total remuneration is the sum 
of emoluments plus pension contributions and the value of long-term incentive awards vesting by reference to performance in the year 
ended 31 December 2014.
  
Salary  
or fees
6
  
£’000
Benefits
7
 
£’000
Bonus
8
  
£’000
Long-term 
incentives
9 
£’000
Pension
10
  
£’000
Total 
remuneration 
£’000
Executive Directors       
Steve Harris 2014 375 2 420 675 56 1,528
2013 284 2 124 – 62 472
Julien Cotta 2014 235 2 313 – 35 585
2013
1
15 – 27 – 4 46
Rod Hafner 2014 255 2 272 658 38 1,225
 2013 195 2 98 – 10 305
Non-Executive Directors
Francesco Granata 2014 133 – – – – 133
2013
2
22 – – – – 22
Tim Corn 2014 55 – – – – 55
2013 25 – – – – 25
Russell Cummings 2014 38 – – – – 38
2013
3
27 – – – – 27
Paul R Edick 2014 50 – – – – 50
2013
4
22 – – – – 22
Jean–Jacques Garaud 2014 62 – – – – 62
2013 25 – – – – 25
Cathrin Petty 2014 51 – – – – 51
2013 25 – – – – 25
Charles Swingland 2014
5
84 – – 675 6 765
 2013 247 6 62 – 30 345
Total 2014 1,338 6 1,005 2,008 135 4,492
Total 2013 887 10 311 – 106 1,314
 
1
  For the period 26 November 2013 to 31 December 2013 as a Director of the Company 
2
 For the period 1 September 2013 to 31 December 2013
3
 All fees for Russell Cummings are paid to Imperial Innovations Limited
4
 For the period from 3 April 2013 to 31 December 2013
5
 For the period from 1 January to 18 March 2014 as an Executive Director and thereafter as a Non-Executive Director
6
 This is the amount earned as salary or fees in the financial year
7
 This is the taxable value of benefits paid in respect of the financial year. These benefits typically relate to medical insurance and life assurance
8
  This is the value of the total bonus earned during the financial year and includes the annual bonus paid in respect of performance against goals for 2014 and the 
IPO bonus paid for performance in ensuring an orderly and efficient IPO. Where the requisite shareholding requirement has not been met by an Executive Director 
then 50% of the annual bonus will be paid in shares. Where the requirement has been met then 25% will be paid in shares. The IPO bonus was paid fully in cash.
9
 The amount shown relates to the gain, being the market value on date of exercise less exercise price, on EMI share option awards that vested during the year
10
  UK tax legislation imposes penalty taxes on annual pension contributions where prescribed maximum limits are exceeded. The Committee has previously 
determined that Executive Directors affected by this legislation would receive pension benefits limited by the prescribed maximum amounts and an additional 
taxable supplementary cash payment equal to the cost to the Company of the benefit foregone. The amount of this supplementary allowance is set so that there 
is no additional cost to the Company as a result of the implementation of this arrangement
Remuneration Committee report continued
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 56 Annual bonus for the year to 31 December 2014
For the year ended 31 December 2014 the bonus consisted of two elements. For performance against annual operational and 
development goals bonuses up to a maximum of 100% of base salary for Executive Directors and senior vice presidents could be 
earned. As disclosed in the IPO prospectus, for performance in ensuring an orderly and efficient IPO, cash bonuses of up to 50% of pre-
IPO salary could also be paid to Executive Directors.
Performance objectives are agreed by the Board at the beginning of the year and the Remuneration Committee determines the 
proportion of bonus payable to each Director and senior vice president in the event that the objective is achieved. The Remuneration 
Committee determines at the beginning of the year following the bonus year, the extent to which the objective has been achieved and the 
proportion of the bonus earned. The bonus is calculated on base salary. 
The annual performance objectives agreed for 2014 together with proportions payable to each Executive Director are set out below.
 
Objective 
Target  
date 
Potential bonuses 
(as % of salary)
Awarded bonuses 
(as % of salary)
Commentary S Harris R Hafner J Cotta S Harris R Hafner J Cotta
1 
 
 
Complete recruitment in Cat-SPIRE 
phase III study. All subjects to have  
passed visit 1B/C.
31 Dec 14 
 
 
20% 
 
 
25% 
 
 
15% 
 
 
20% 
 
 
25% 
 
 
15% 
 
 
Study recruitment completed 
on 31 December 2014 with 
1,409 subjects randomised.  
2
 
 
 
Initiate HDM-SPIRE phase II
—  First regulatory and IRB approval by  
30 September 2014
—  Start screening by 30 November 
2014 
30 Sept 14
30 Sept 14 
30 Nov 14 
15%
 
 
 
20%
 
 
 
15%
 
 
 
15%
 
 
 
20%
 
 
 
15%
 
 
 
First regulatory and IRB 
approval received on  
5 August 2014 and screening 
began on 24 September 2014. 
3 Be ready for FDA End of Phase II 
meeting for Ragweed-SPIRE.
—  Complete Ragweed-SPIRE phase II
—  Request FDA end phase II meeting
 
31 Jan 15
31 Mar 15
15% 20% 15% 11% 15% 11% Ragweed-SPIRE phase 
II exposure chamber and 
controlled asthmatics 
studies completed and 
announcement to the market 
of top line results for exposure 
chamber study TR006 made 
on 8 December 2014.
Master File in IND format 
submitted to FDA in  
September 2014 to update 
FDA on status of programme 
in readiness for submission 
of end of phase II meeting 
request.
All work in respect of 
completion of Ragweed-
SPIRE phase II substantially 
complete.
Following sight of exposure 
chamber study results request 
for end of phase II meeting will 
not be submitted. 
4 Prepare Japanese Cedar-SPIRE for 
clinical trial.
—  Complete epitope work
—  Ready to start toxicological studies 
31 Mar 15 – 5% – – – – Not completed.
5 Identify strategic growth opportunities 
and bring at least one to Board for 
approval. 
31 Dec 14 20% 5% 10% 20% 5% 10% Strategy for establishment 
of commercial infrastructure 
brought to Board and 
approved.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 57  
Objective 
Target  
date 
Potential bonuses 
(as % of salary)
Awarded bonuses 
(as % of salary)
Commentary S Harris R Hafner J Cotta S Harris R Hafner J Cotta
6 Ensure orderly disposal of  
shares from any Shareholders who 
wish to sell once the lock ups have 
expired
31 Dec 14 5% 5% 10% 5% 5% 10% Completed. 
7 Operate within budget 31 Dec 14 5% 5% 10% 5% 5% 10% Achieved.
8 Recruit staff as per plan 31 Dec 14 5% 5% 5% 4% 4% 4% 94% achievement  
against target
9 Ensure that Circassia’s patents are 
secured
—  Prepare robust responses  
to oppositions to ensure  
that we get valuable (protective)  
claims
—  Win any oppositions that occur 
such that Circassia maintains 
valuable (protective) claims
31 Dec 14 5% 5% 20% 5% 5% 20% 
Robust responses have been 
prepared during the year to 
the oppositions filed against 
Circassia.
In November 2014, Circassia 
was successful at a European 
Patent Office opposition 
hearing, at which the 
Opposition Division upheld the 
validity of Circassia’s patent 
covering Ragweed-SPIRE.
10 Prepare Circassia for the launch of 
Cat-SPIRE
—  Have approved pre-launch plans 
(strategy, objectives and activities), 
in place by Q4 2014 including: 
Commercial, Market access, 
Communications, Distribution
—  Conduct US and EU payer advisory 
boards 
—  Understand Japanese IT market by 
conducting qualitative interviews 
with key opinion leaders and 
quantitative market research with 
allergists
31 Dec 14 
31 Dec 14 
 
 
 
31 Dec 14 
31 Dec 14
5% – – 4% – – 
Pre-launch plans were 
presented to the Board and 
approved. 
 
12 EU interviews and 5 US 
interviews completed.
7 interviews with Japanese key 
opinion leaders completed in 
May. Quantitative research with 
135 allergists has been started 
and was completed by end 
January. In addition, quantitative 
research with 1,000 patients 
was carried out and completed. 
The work with patients was in 
addition to the original objective.
Remuneration Committee report continued
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 58  
Objective 
Target  
date 
Potential bonuses 
(as % of salary)
Awarded bonuses 
(as % of salary)
Commentary S Harris R Hafner J Cotta S Harris R Hafner J Cotta
11 Complete all necessary CMC activities 
required to support the goals of the 
business including:
—  Complete manufacture and testing 
of Cat-SPIRE validation batches at 
Patheon and Bachem
—  Establish lyophilisation 
manufacturing process for  
HDM-SPIRE 120µM and 200µM 
and validate methods for both dose 
strengths
—  Establish potency assay for HDM-
SPIRE and Ragweed-SPIRE
—  Develop formulations and analytical 
methods to release materials for 
toxicological studies of Birch-SPIRE 
and Japanese Cedar-SPIRE
—  Prepare CMC sections of CTA/ 
IND applications for HDM-SPIRE, 
Ragweed-SPIRE, Grass-SPIRE
31 Dec 14 5% 5% – 4% 4% – Patheon completed the 
manufacture of the fourth 
drug product validation batch 
on 27th October 2014. Batch 
analysis (UPLC) complete in 
November 2014; potency assay 
testing completed in January 
2015.
Manufacture of 3rd set of 
validation batches at Bachem 
has been completed. These 
were released and shipped on 
30 June 2014 and placed on 
stability in August 2014.
HDM-SPIRE Lyo process 
established for both dose 
strengths, methods validated 
and batches manufactured for 
HDM-SPIRE phase II study, 
packed and released to study 
sites November 2014
Potency assay for HDM-
SPIRE established and 
qualified in May 2014.
Ragweed-SPIRE potency 
assay not complete. Target 
date for completion Q1 2015.
Development of an alternative 
assay has been initiated 
with EpiVax and ProImmune 
respectively. 
Birch-SPIRE: Manufacture 
of tox material completed by 
2nd July. Release testing at 
Hologic completed 25th July 
with reported data available 
7th Aug 2014. Materials 
released and toxicity study 
commenced on 28th August 
2014.
Japanese Cedar-SPIRE: 
Target date for completion 
of formulation development 
for toxicity studies H1 2015 
following selection of epitopes.
Total 100% 100% 100% 93% 88% 95%
Immediate payment in cash as % 
of salary 
– – – 75% 75% 50%
Deferred payment in shares as % 
of salary
– – – 25% 25% 50%
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 59 The Remuneration Committee is able to determine the final outcome of the Bonus Award upwards or downwards where exceptional 
events occur which are outside the control of the Executive Directors and which materially affect the calculation. No such events occurred 
in the year to 31 December 2014.
Deferred share bonus awards are structured as conditional awards over shares which vest after three years. The level of deferral is linked 
to the achievement of the Company’s shareholding guidelines as set out in the policy report. Where the guidelines have been met in 
full, 75% of bonuses are paid in cash and 25% in shares. Both Steve Harris and Rod Hafner have met their shareholding guidelines and 
therefore 75% of their 2014 bonus was paid in cash. Julien Cotta has not yet met the shareholding guidelines and so 50% of his bonus 
was paid in cash and 50% in shares.
In relation to the element of the bonus that was subject to a successful IPO process: 
 
Objective 
Target  
date 
Potential bonuses 
(as % of pre-IPO salary)
Awarded bonuses 
(as % of pre-IPO salary)
Commentary S Harris R Hafner J Cotta S Harris R Hafner J Cotta
Support an orderly and efficient IPO process March 14 25% 25% 50% 23% 24% 50% Performance assessment 
reflects the level of involvement 
and additional time 
commitments required to 
deliver a successful IPO on a 
timely basis. 
 
In total the annual bonus payments opportunity for 2014 was greater than the ongoing level of bonus opportunity which Shareholders 
will be asked to approve in the Directors’ remuneration policy report. The Committee considers that the higher opportunity for 2014 was 
necessary to recognise the efforts of the Executive Directors in achieving the strong operational results at the same time as managing an 
orderly IPO process to very short deadlines. The bonus maximum will be 100% of salary for 2015 and future years. 
Long-term incentive plan (LTIP) awards made during the year
On 12 March 2014 the following awards under the Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Performance Share Plan (the “PSP”) were made to the 
Executive Directors.
Executive 
Director Type of award
Basis of  
award granted
Share price  
at date of grant
Number of  
shares over  
which award  
was granted
% of shares 
granted that 
vest at threshold 
performance
Face value of 
shares over  
which award 
originally granted 
£’000
Vesting 
determined by 
performance  
over
Steve Harris Nil cost option
208% of salary 
of £375,000 £3.10 251,125 25% £778
3 years to  
31 Dec. 2016
Julien Cotta Nil cost option
173% of salary 
of £235,000 £3.10 131,125 25% £406
3 years to  
31 Dec. 2016
Rod Hafner Nil cost option
249% of salary 
of £255,000 £3.10 204,750 25% £635
3 years to  
31 Dec. 2016
 
The award level for 2014 was greater than the ongoing award limit which Shareholders will be asked to approve in the policy report.  
The Committee considered that the higher opportunity for this first award was necessary to fully support retention and incentivisation  
over a critical period of the Company’s development. 
Remuneration Committee report continued
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 60 The number of options in the 2014 PSP that ultimately vest will be determined according to the following performance criteria:
Criterion 1: Relative TSR 
For options granted in 2014, up to 70% of the total award will vest subject to achievement of the performance criterion.
% vesting of the total award Relative TSR ranking against the FTSE 250 Index (as at 
12 March 2014) for the period 12 March 2014 to 12 March 
2017.
1
0% Below median
25% Median
70% Upper quartile
1
 In respect of criterion 1, vesting occurs on a straight line basis between the median and upper quartile points
 
Criterion 2: Clinical and strategic business objectives
For options granted in 2014, up to 30% of the total award will vest subject to achievement of the performance criterion.
The clinical and strategic business objectives referred to in criterion 2 are as follows. Percentages in brackets relate to the percentage of 
the total award:
 — Cat-SPIRE phase III results (CP007) by 30 Sept 2016 (9%);
 — Ragweed-SPIRE Phase II results (TR006) by 31 December 2015 (3%);
 — Ragweed-SPIRE regulatory and IRB approval for commencement of Phase III by 31 March 2016 (3%);
 — HDM-SPIRE phase II fully recruited by 31 March 2016 (6%);
 — Grass-SPIRE end of phase II meeting by 31 December 2015 (3%);
 — Regulatory and IRB approval for commencement of new clinical programme by 31 March 2017 (3%);
 — Signed agreement for out-licensing deal/partnership for development and commercialisation by end 31 December 2016 (3%); and
 — Achievement against objectives results in proportionate vesting.
Directors’ pensions
For the financial year ended 31 December 2014 the Company contributed £135,871 to defined contribution money purchase pension 
schemes for the Directors. As was explained in the remuneration table, Executive Directors may also receive a supplementary cash 
payment in lieu of pension contributions where statutory limits have been exceeded. No supplementary payments were made in the 
financial year.
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited information)
The Directors who have held office during the year ended 31 December 2014 and their interests (in respect of which transactions must  
be notified to the Company) in the share capital of the Company are shown in the following tables.
There was no change in the Directors’ interests between 31 December 2014 and the date of this report. 
Directors holding office at 31 December 2014 with LTIP awards and options outstanding over Ordinary shares of 0.08p were as follows:
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 61 Remuneration Committee report continued
Plan Date of grant
Awards granted and  
options held  
as at 1 January 2014
1
Awards and options  
granted (exercised, lapsed, 
or cancelled) during year
Awards and options held  
at 31 December 2014 and  
at the date of this report 
Vesting  
during year
Vested  
as at year end
Unvested  
as at year end
Exercise price  
(p)
Date from which first 
exercisable Expiry date
Executive Directors
S Harris
2007 EMI Scheme 2 August 2007 317,500 – 317,500 – 317,500 – 0.08 2 August 2010 1 August 2017
2007 EMI Scheme 15 August 2011 217,875 – 217,875 217,875 217,875 – 0.08 18 March 2014 14 August 2021
2014 PSP 12 March 2014 – 251,125 251,125 
 
– – 251,125 nil 12 March 2017 11 March 2024 
Total 535,375 251,125 786,500 217,875 535,375 251,125   
J Cotta
2013 Unapproved Scheme 22 October 2013 149,250 – 149,250 – – 149,250 242 22 October 2016 21 October 2023 
2014 PSP 12 March 2014 – 131,125 131,125 
 
– – 131,125 nil 12 March 2017 11 March 2024 
Total 149,250 131,125 280,375 – – 280,375   
R Hafner
2007 EMI Scheme 3 July 2008 125,000 (125,000) – – – – 0.08 3 July 2011 2 July 2018
2007 EMI Scheme 18 March 2009 62,500 (62,500) – – – – 0.08 18 March 2012 17 March 2019
2007 EMI Scheme 22 January 2010 312,500 (312,500) – – – – 0.08 22 January 2013 21 January 2020
2007 EMI Scheme 15 August 2011 212,375 (212,375) – 212,375 – – 0.08 18 March 2014 14 August 2021
2014 PSP 12 March 2014 
 
– 204,750 204,750 
 
– 
 
– 
 
204,750 nil 12 March 2017 11 March 2024 
Total 712,375 (507,625) 204,750 212,375 – 204,750   
Non-Executive Directors
T Corn
2007 Unapproved Scheme 23 February 2010 62,500 – 62,500 – 62,500 – 0.08 23 February 2013 22 February 2020 
2007 Unapproved Scheme 15 August 2011 16,750 – 16,750 
 
16,750 16,750 – 0.08 15 August 2014 14 August 2021 
Total 79,250 – 79,250 16,750 79,250 –   
P Edick
2007 Unapproved Scheme 3 April 2013 156,250 – 156,250 
 
– – 156,250 0.08 3 April 2016 2 April 2023 
JJ Garaud
2007 Unapproved Scheme 12 November 2012 77,500 – 77,500 
 
– – 77,500 0.08 12 November 2015 11 November 2022 
C Petty
2007 Unapproved Scheme 15 August 2011 16,250 – 16,250 
 
16,250 16,250 – 0.08 15 August 2014 14 August 2021 
C Swingland
2007 EMI Scheme 2 August 2007 317,500 (317,500) – – – – 0.08 2 August 2010 1 August 2017
2007 Unapproved Scheme 15 August 2011 217,875 (217,875) – 
 
217,875 – – 0.08 15 August 2014 14 August 2021 
Total 535,375 (535,375) – 217,875 – –   
 
1   
The awards granted and options held as at 1 January 2014 have been re-stated to reflect the capital re-organisation which took place prior to the IPO
  Each 10p Ordinary share prior to the re-organisation converted to 125 new Ordinary shares of 0.08 pence each
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 62 Plan Date of grant
Awards granted and  
options held  
as at 1 January 2014
1
Awards and options  
granted (exercised, lapsed, 
or cancelled) during year
Awards and options held  
at 31 December 2014 and  
at the date of this report 
Vesting  
during year
Vested  
as at year end
Unvested  
as at year end
Exercise price  
(p)
Date from which first 
exercisable Expiry date
Executive Directors
S Harris
2007 EMI Scheme 2 August 2007 317,500 – 317,500 – 317,500 – 0.08 2 August 2010 1 August 2017
2007 EMI Scheme 15 August 2011 217,875 – 217,875 217,875 217,875 – 0.08 18 March 2014 14 August 2021
2014 PSP 12 March 2014 – 251,125 251,125 
 
– – 251,125 nil 12 March 2017 11 March 2024 
Total 535,375 251,125 786,500 217,875 535,375 251,125   
J Cotta
2013 Unapproved Scheme 22 October 2013 149,250 – 149,250 – – 149,250 242 22 October 2016 21 October 2023 
2014 PSP 12 March 2014 – 131,125 131,125 
 
– – 131,125 nil 12 March 2017 11 March 2024 
Total 149,250 131,125 280,375 – – 280,375   
R Hafner
2007 EMI Scheme 3 July 2008 125,000 (125,000) – – – – 0.08 3 July 2011 2 July 2018
2007 EMI Scheme 18 March 2009 62,500 (62,500) – – – – 0.08 18 March 2012 17 March 2019
2007 EMI Scheme 22 January 2010 312,500 (312,500) – – – – 0.08 22 January 2013 21 January 2020
2007 EMI Scheme 15 August 2011 212,375 (212,375) – 212,375 – – 0.08 18 March 2014 14 August 2021
2014 PSP 12 March 2014 
 
– 204,750 204,750 
 
– 
 
– 
 
204,750 nil 12 March 2017 11 March 2024 
Total 712,375 (507,625) 204,750 212,375 – 204,750   
Non-Executive Directors
T Corn
2007 Unapproved Scheme 23 February 2010 62,500 – 62,500 – 62,500 – 0.08 23 February 2013 22 February 2020 
2007 Unapproved Scheme 15 August 2011 16,750 – 16,750 
 
16,750 16,750 – 0.08 15 August 2014 14 August 2021 
Total 79,250 – 79,250 16,750 79,250 –   
P Edick
2007 Unapproved Scheme 3 April 2013 156,250 – 156,250 
 
– – 156,250 0.08 3 April 2016 2 April 2023 
JJ Garaud
2007 Unapproved Scheme 12 November 2012 77,500 – 77,500 
 
– – 77,500 0.08 12 November 2015 11 November 2022 
C Petty
2007 Unapproved Scheme 15 August 2011 16,250 – 16,250 
 
16,250 16,250 – 0.08 15 August 2014 14 August 2021 
C Swingland
2007 EMI Scheme 2 August 2007 317,500 (317,500) – – – – 0.08 2 August 2010 1 August 2017
2007 Unapproved Scheme 15 August 2011 217,875 (217,875) – 
 
217,875 – – 0.08 15 August 2014 14 August 2021 
Total 535,375 (535,375) – 217,875 – –   
 
1   
The awards granted and options held as at 1 January 2014 have been re-stated to reflect the capital re-organisation which took place prior to the IPO
  Each 10p Ordinary share prior to the re-organisation converted to 125 new Ordinary shares of 0.08 pence each
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 63 With regard to the PSP , the number of shares released to Directors at the end of the three year performance period is dependent upon 
satisfying the criteria relating to TSR and clinical and strategic milestones which are set out in the section of this report relating to the LTIP .
Executive Directors hold options under the Circassia Holdings Limited EMI Share Option Scheme 2007 (the “EMI Scheme”); the Circassia 
Holdings Limited Unapproved Share Option Scheme 2007 (the “2007 Unapproved Scheme”); and the Circassia Holdings Limited 
Unapproved Share Option Scheme 2013 (the “2013 Unapproved Scheme”). Historically, no performance conditions have been attached 
to the options granted under these schemes. The exercise price is equal to the market value of the Company’s shares at the time the 
options are granted.
It was explained in the Corporate governance section of this report that the Group granted certain Non-Executive Directors share options in 
the past, when it was a private company. No further options have been granted since Admission and no awards will be made in the future.
Gain on exercise of share options
Executive Directors Date of exercise
Number of  
options exercised
Exercise  
price  
(p)
Market value 
at date of 
exercise  
(p)
Gain on exercise  
of share options  
(£)
Dr Rod Hafner
1
24 February 2014 500,000 0.08p 0.08p
1
nil
27 March 2014 212,375 0.08p 295.25 626,867
Charles Swingland
1
27 March 2014 535,375 0.08p 295.25 1,580,266
 
1
  Rod Hafner exercised 500,000 share options on 24 February 2014 at an exercise price of 10p (converted into 0.08p shares post IPO). On this date, the market 
value of the share capital of the Company was 10p. A proportion of these shares were sold on 18 March 2014 at a price of 310p each. The gain shown above is 
the notional gain on exercise of options exercised during the year. In total, Rod Hafner exercised 712,375 options and of this total he sold 322,581 shares to cover 
the cost of the exercise and the associated tax liabilities and Charles Swingland exercised 535,375 options and did not sell any of these shares.
Directors’ interests in shares (including shares held as Restricted shares)
As was noted earlier in this report, the Company has implemented guidelines which require the Executive Directors and key senior 
employees to build up and maintain an interest in the Ordinary shares of the Company which is equal in value to their annual base salary. 
For the purpose of assessing compliance with these guidelines, the value of the shareholding is calculated using the higher of the share 
price on 31 December 2014 (279p) and the acquisition price of the shares. The value as a percentage of salary has been calculated using 
base salary as at 31 December 2014.
The following table shows the number of Ordinary shares beneficially owned by the Directors who served during the financial year which 
are not subject to any restrictions on transfer or to forfeiture.
 
Shares beneficially owned  
as at 31 December 2014
Value of owned shares  
as a % of salary
Shareholding  
requirement met
Executive Directors
S Harris 5,048,677 3756% Yes
J Cotta – – No
R Hafner 389,794 426% Yes
Non-Executive Directors
F Granata 19,354 n/a n/a
T Corn 62,500 n/a n/a
C Petty 188,875 n/a n/a
C Swingland 5,584,177 n/a n/a
Remuneration Committee report continued
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 64 The following table shows the interests in Restricted shares of the Directors who served during the year. These are subject to restrictions 
on transfer or to forfeiture.
 
Date of grant  
of Restricted shares
b/f as at  
1 January 2014
Additions, 
exercises  
or lapses  
during year
c/f as at  
31 December 
2014
Value of owned shares  
as a % of salary
Executive Directors
S Harris 6 February 2013 250,000 250,000 279%
7 March 2013 125,000 125,000
J Cotta 6 February 2013 25,000 25,000 56%
7 March 2013 12,500 12,500
4 March 2014 9,375 9,375
R Hafner 6 February 2013 125,000 125,000 251%
7 March 2013 75,000 75,000
4 March 2014 29,500 29,500
Non-Executive Directors
F Granata 1 September 2013 312,500 – 312,500 649%
C Swingland 20 December 2012 62,500 62,500 913%
 7 March 2013 75,000 75,000 
 
The table below sets out further information for those shares awarded in the year.
Executive  
Director
Type of  
award
Basis of  
award granted
Share price  
at date of grant
Number of 
shares over 
which award 
was granted
Face value of 
shares over 
which award 
originally 
granted  
£
Vesting determined  
by time
Julien Cotta 
 
 
 
 
Restricted  
share award 
 
 
 
Awards to a 
number of  
key employees 
pre-IPO to 
incentivise and 
aid retention
0.08 pence 
 
 
 
 
9,375 
 
 
 
 
£7.50 
 
 
 
 
3 years  
to 4 March 2017 
 
 
 
Rod Hafner 
 
 
 
 
Restricted  
share award 
 
 
 
Awards to a 
number of  
key employees 
pre-IPO to 
incentivise and 
aid retention
0.08 pence 
 
 
 
 
29,500 
 
 
 
 
£23.60 
 
 
 
 
3 years  
to 4 March 2017 
 
 
 
 
Restricted shares have been subscribed for or purchased at a price of 10p per Ordinary share and, under the terms of their acquisition, 
are subject to certain restrictions on transfer and forfeiture. The restrictions lift on the earlier of a sale of the Company and the expiry of a 
vesting period of between two and three years (depending on the date of award of the Restricted shares). The Ordinary shares may be 
forfeited if the participant ceases to be employed or be an officer of the Company prior to the vesting of the shares other than by reason 
of: death; resignation; permanent incapacity; redundancy; retirement; non-renewal of a fixed term contract or consultancy.
Directors are not permitted to hold their shares in hedging arrangements or as collateral for loans without the express permission of the 
Board. None of the Directors currently holds or has held their shares in such an arrangement.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 65 Remuneration Committee report continued
Total shareholder return 
18 March 2014 – 31 December 2014
 
110
100
90
80
18 Mar 14 31 Dec 14 29 Nov 14 28 Oct 14 26 Sep 14 25 Aug 14 24 Jul 14 22 Jun 14 21 May 14 19 Apr 14
Circassia
FTSE 250 excluding Investment trusts
Unaudited information 
Percentage increase in the remuneration of the CEO
% change between 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014
CEO
Salary
1
21% increase
Benefits 1% increase
Bonus 240% increase
Average per employee
Salary 31% increase
Benefits 1% increase
Bonus 46% increase
1
 Salary includes £25,000, which was salary sacrificed as pension contribution 
 
The salary of the CEO and other Executive Directors was recalibrated as part of the IPO process. The increase indicated above has 
brought Mr Harris’ salary, in the Committee’s view, to a roughly mid-market level when compared with other companies at a similar stage 
of their development and in the same sector.
Total shareholder return
The performance of the Company’s Ordinary shares compared with the FTSE 250 (excluding Investment trusts) (the “Index”) for the 
period from Admission on 18 March 2014 to 31 December 2014 is shown in the graph below:
The Company has chosen the Index as its benchmark of share price performance as it believes that this gives Shareholders a reasonable 
comparison with the total shareholder return of other equity investments in companies of a broadly similar size across all sectors. The 
TSR performance has been measured by JPMorgan Cazenove.
The mid-market price of an Ordinary share on 31 December 2014 was £2.79p. From 18 March 2014 to 31 December 2014 the share 
price ranged from a high of £3.18p to a low of £2.68p.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 66 Circassia
FTSE 250 excluding Investment trusts
Total remuneration for the CEO over time
Description 2014
Total remuneration (£’000) 1,528
Bonus awarded (%) 93%
LTIP vesting (%) 100%
 
The table above shows the total remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer during the financial years in which the Company has been 
constituted as a public company. The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards which vested based on 
performance during those years. The annual bonus and LTIP percentages show the amount paid out for each year as a percentage of 
the maximum.
Relative importance of expenditure on pay
The table below shows the expenditure by the Company on remuneration paid to all employees of the Group and distributions to 
Shareholders for the financial period.
 
2014 
£m
Overall expenditure on pay 6.1
Dividend plus share buyback Nil
 
Application of remuneration policy to 2015 salary review
The Executive Directors’ salaries were reviewed in January 2014 as part of the IPO process and were set at a level which the Committee 
regarded as broadly mid-market when compared with other companies of a similar size operating within the same sector. New Bridge 
Street provided advice to the Committee on this process. A further salary review took place on 9 February 2015 and a 3% increase was 
applied effective 1 January 2015. This increase is equal to the average salary increase provided to UK employees.
 
Salary as at  
1 January 2015
Salary as at  
1 January 2014
%  
Increase
Steve Harris 386,000 375,000 3
Julien Cotta 242,000 235,000 3
Rod Hafner 262,500 255,000 3
 
Performance targets for 2015 bonus and LTIP awards
For the financial year 2015, the annual bonus will continue to be based on corporate objectives analogous to those set out in the 
Remuneration Policy. The maximum bonus opportunity will be 100% of salary for Executive Directors in line with the ongoing 
remuneration policy.
The Committee has decided not to disclose the detailed nature of these performance targets as they comprise commercially sensitive 
information. Retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be made in the 2015 Remuneration Committee 
report.
The measures applicable to awards made under the Performance Share Plan will be as disclosed in the table in the section ‘LTIP Awards 
made during the year’ except that the percentage weighting ascribed to relative TSR versus the FTSE 250 Index and clinical and strategic 
objectives shall be adjusted so that each accounts for 50% of the total awards available. The clinical and strategic objectives will be set 
in accordance with the achievement of certain key timelines which the Committee will approve prior to grant of the award and will be fully 
disclosed in the 2015 Remuneration report.
Award levels for 2015 will be in accordance with the remuneration policy.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 67 Non-Executive Director remuneration
The fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have been increased by 3% effective 1 January 2015. This increase is in line with 
the average increases awarded to employees. The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors in 2014 and the fees proposed to be paid in 
2015 are set out below:
 
From 1 January 2014  
(£)
From 1 January 2015  
(£)
Increase  
%
Chairman 126,800 130,500 3
Non-Executive Director 42,000 43,250 3
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Fee 48,500 49,950 3
Remuneration and Audit Committee Chairmanship Fee 10,000 10,300 3
Nomination Committee Chair 7,500 7,725 3
Committee Memberships 5,000 5,150 3
 
Shareholder voting at the Annual General Meeting
At last year’s AGM held on 21 February 2014, as the Company was private, no Remuneration Committee report was presented to the 
Shareholders.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board on 26 February 2015.
Dr Jean-Jacques Garaud 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Remuneration Committee report continued
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 68 Directors’ report
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Directors  
present their report together with the financial statements  
and the Independent Auditors’ report for the year ended  
31 December 2014.
Principal activity
The principal activity of the Company undertaken during the 
year was the development and commercialisation of a range of 
immunotherapy products for the treatment of allergies.
Review of business
The Strategic report on pages 01 to 33 comprises a review 
of the Company’s performance during the year, its corporate 
objectives, an overview of the market, a review of the Company’s 
risk management processes, issues relating to corporate 
citizenship, and a financial review. Key events are described 
in the Chairman’s statement and the Chief Executive’s review. 
Progress against key performance indicators are provided 
throughout the Strategic report and in particular in the section 
‘Strategy and progress against objectives’. Information relating to 
the environment, employees and stakeholders, health and safety, 
ethical considerations and political and charitable donations is also 
set out in the Strategic report as well as the Board’s assessment of 
the key risks and uncertainties facing the business. The Chairman’s 
introduction in relation to corporate governance appears at the 
beginning of the Corporate governance report. It is followed by the 
Audit Committee report, the Nomination Committee report, and the 
Remuneration Committee report.
These various reports form part of this Directors’ report by 
reference and should be read as part of it. The consolidated 
income statement for the year ended 31 December 2014 is set  
out in the financial statements.
Results and dividend
The results for the year and the financial position as at 31 
December 2014 are shown in the Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income and the Consolidated statement of financial 
position. The results of the Group are explained in more detail in the 
Financial review.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the 
year to 31 December 2014 (2013: £nil).
Directors and Directors’ interests
The Directors of the Company at the date of this report,  
together with their biographical details and dates of appointment 
are set out in the Corporate governance report and the Board of 
Directors section.
The Directors served throughout the year with the exception of  
Lota Zoth who served from 9 February 2015. Charles Swingland 
served as an Executive Director from 1 January 2014 to 18 March 
2014 and as a Non-Executive Director for the remainder of the year.
The Board confirms that each of the Directors who served  
during the year has been formally appraised during this period.  
In accordance with the Code, all Directors of the Company will 
stand for re-election on an annual basis.
Information on the Directors’ remuneration and their interests in 
the share capital of the Company are set out in the Remuneration 
report. None of the Directors has a commercial interest in any 
material contract entered into by the Company.
As is permitted by sections 232 to 235 Companies Act 2006, 
and consistent with the Company’s Articles of Association, the 
Company has maintained insurance cover for its Directors and 
Officers under a Directors and Officers Liability Policy. Further, the 
Company has granted an indemnity to its Directors against liability 
which arises due to claims brought by third parties.
The Directors may exercise their powers pursuant to the Articles of 
Association, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation, and 
any resolution of the Shareholders. The Articles are available for 
review at the registered office.
Share capital and Shareholders
Share capital
At 18 February 2015 the Company had a total of 125 Ordinary 
Shareholders and 189,419,634 Ordinary shares in issue.
During the year the share capital of the Company increased by 
64,516,129 Ordinary shares as a result of the Initial Public Offering 
which took place on 18 March 2014 and by a further 1,363,875 
Ordinary shares due to the vesting and exercise of share awards. 
On 11 April 2014, a further 633,380 Ordinary shares from the 
Over-Allotment Option were issued. Details of the movements in 
the Company’s share capital are shown in note 21 to the financial 
statements.
Following the reorganisation of the share capital which occurred 
immediately prior to the Initial Public Offering, the Company has 
only one class of shares which carry no right to fixed income. 
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of 
the Company. There are no restrictions on voting rights or on the 
holding or transfer of these securities.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 22. Shares 
held by the Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Employee Benefit Trust 
abstain from voting. No shares were held in the Employee Benefit 
Trust during the year (2013: Nil).
Pursuant to the Articles of Association the Company has been 
granted authority to allot up to 5% of its issued Ordinary share 
capital on a non-pre-emptive basis. No such allotments were made 
during the year.
Lock up arrangements
The Company and the Directors agreed certain lock-up 
arrangements in advance of the IPO of the Company.
Pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement which was made between 
the Company, the Directors, the Selling Shareholders, and the 
Banks, the Company agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, 
for a period of six months from the date of Admission, it would not 
without prior consent of the Joint Bookrunners, issue, offer, sell or 
contract to sell or otherwise dispose of any Ordinary shares. This 
obligation expired on 17 September 2014.
Also pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, each of the Directors 
agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, during the period of  
12 months following Admission, they would not without prior 
consent of the Joint Bookrunners, offer, sell or contract to sell or 
otherwise dispose of any Ordinary shares. This obligation expires 
on 17 March 2015.
Finally, pursuant to the Lock-up Agreement, which was put  
in place between Invesco, Imperial Innovations, Lansdowne and  
the Banks, the Locked-up Shareholders agreed that, subject to 
certain exceptions, for a period of six months from the date of 
Admission, they would not without prior consent of the Banks,  
offer, sell or contract to sell or otherwise dispose of any Ordinary 
shares which they held prior to the IPO. This obligation expired  
on 17 September 2014.
Directors’ report
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 69 Share price 
The mid-market share price ranged from £2.68p to £3.18p during 
the period from 18 March 2014 to 31 December 2014. The average 
price for the period was £2.93p. The mid-market price of an 
Ordinary share on 31 December 2014 was £2.79p. 
 
Number  
of shares
% of  
shares
The Bank of New York (Nominees) Limited 77,566,867 40.95
PH Nominees Limited 28,214,229 14.90
Chase Nominees Limited 18,399,221 9.71
State Street Nominees Limited 8,997,808 4.75
Nortrust Limited 7,561,524 3.99
Chase (GA Group) Nominees Limited 7,188,634 3.80
HSBC Client Holdings Nominee (UK) Limited 6,947,305 3.67
Lynchwood Nominees Limited 6,291,955 3.32
Mr Charles Swingland 5,721,677 3.02 
Significant shareholdings
As at 18 February 2015 the Company had been notified of the 
following interests, held, directly or indirectly, in 3% or more of the 
Company’s issued share capital.
Directors’ report continued
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 70 The Board confirms that, in accordance with LR 9.2.2AR(2)(a) 
Relationship Agreements were put in place on 12 March 2014 
between the Company and Invesco Asset Management Limited, 
and the Company and Imperial Innovations LLP and their affiliates. 
Invesco holds more than 20% of the voting rights attached to 
the issued share capital of Imperial Innovations and accordingly 
there is a presumption (which has not been rebutted) that Invesco 
and Imperial Innovations are acting in concert in relation to their 
shareholdings in the Company. At the date of this report, Invesco 
and Imperial Innovations together held 49.3% of the voting rights 
attached to the issued share capital of the Company.
Invesco relationship agreement
The principal purpose of the relationship agreement is to ensure 
that the Company will be capable of carrying on its business 
independently of Invesco for so long as Invesco, together with  
its concert parties, holds a controlling interest.
Pursuant to these agreements, and for so long as Invesco holds a 
controlling interest: 
 — The parties shall procure that all transactions and relationships 
between the Company and any other member of the Group 
and Invesco (or any of its associates) are conducted at arms-
length and on normal commercial terms; and
 — Invesco shall (and shall procure that each of its associates 
shall) not take any action that would prevent the Company 
from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules 
and shall not propose or procure the proposal of any 
Shareholder resolution which is intended to or appears  
to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the 
Listing Rules.
Imperial Innovations relationship agreement
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure 
that the Company will be capable of carrying on its business 
independently of Imperial Innovations for so long as Imperial 
Innovations with its concert parties, holds a controlling interest.
Pursuant to these agreements, and for so long as Imperial 
Innovations together with Invesco holds a controlling interest: 
 — The parties shall procure that all transactions and relationships 
between the Company and any other member of the 
Group and Imperial Innovations (or any of its associates) are 
conducted at arms-length and on normal commercial terms; 
and
 — Imperial Innovations shall (and shall procure that each  
of its associates shall) not take any action that would prevent 
the Company from complying with its obligations under the 
Listing Rules and shall not propose or procure the proposal  
of any Shareholder resolution which is intended to or appears 
to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the 
Listing Rules.
The Board confirms that the Company has complied with the 
independence provisions under LR 9.2.2AR(2)(a) referred to 
above and, that so far as it is aware, the controlling Shareholders 
have complied with the independence provisions and, so far as 
it is aware, the controlling Shareholders have complied with the 
procurement obligation.
Treasury management
The Company’s policy on the use of financial instruments and  
the management of financial risks is set out in note 2 to the  
financial statements.
Going concern
The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis. 
Budgets are prepared on a rolling three year basis each year. 
These are built from the bottom up and presented to the Board 
each year for review and approval. The Directors have reviewed the 
current and projected financial position of the Company, taking into 
account existing cash balances and available financial facilities. On 
the basis of this review, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company has adequate resources to continue to operate 
for the foreseeable future.
Employment and environment
The Company’s policies on health and safety, the environment,  
and employee-related matters are disclosed in the Strategic review. 
Greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated as carbon  
dioxide equivalents.
Political and charitable donations
There were no charitable or political donations in the year to  
31 December 2014.
Auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has expressed its willingness to 
continue in office as Auditor and a resolution to re-appoint PwC will 
be put to the members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this report 
confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s Auditor is unaware, 
and each Director has taken all the steps a Director ought to have 
taken to make themselves aware of relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Auditor is aware of that information. This 
confirmation is given in accordance with section 418 Companies 
Act 2006.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at the offices of Circassia 
Pharmaceuticals plc on 20 May 2015 at 10a.m. Details of the 
business to be transacted at the forthcoming AGM will be given  
in a separate circular to Shareholders.
By order of the Board
Julien Cotta 
Company Secretary
26 February 2015
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 71 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
In respect of the Annual report and accounts and financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2014
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report  
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law  
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and  
parent Company financial statements for each financial year.  
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group 
financial statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union 
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare 
the parent Company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union. Under company law the Directors must 
not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the 
profit or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing these 
financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires 
that Directors:
 — properly select and apply accounting policies;
 — present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information;
 — provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of any particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance; and
 — make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as 
a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect 
fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the website. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 — the financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by 
the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken  
as a whole;
 — the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties which they face; and
 — the Annual report and the financial statements, taken as a 
whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide 
the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
Julien Cotta 
Director
26 February 2015
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 72 Materiality
Audit scope
Areas of 
focus
Report on the financial statements 
Our opinion
In our opinion:
 — Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc’s Group financial statements 
and parent Company financial statements (the “financial 
statements”) give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at 31 
December 2014 and of the Group’s loss and the Group’s and 
the parent Company’s cash flows for the year then ended;
 — the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union;
 — the parent Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
 — the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and,  
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the  
IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc’s financial statements comprise:
 — the Consolidated statement of financial position as at  
31 December 2014;
 — the Parent Company statement of financial position as at  
31 December 2014;
 — the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the 
year then ended;
 — the Group and parent Company statement of cash flows for 
the year then ended;
 — the Group and parent Company statement of changes in 
equity for the year then ended; and
 — the notes to the financial statements, which include a 
summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the 
Annual report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are 
identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent 
Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach
Overview
 
Materiality: 
 Overall Group materiality: £463k which 
represents 1% of total group expenses. 
 
Audit scope:
 — We conducted audit work in one 
location. All entities are managed from 
Oxford, and the vast majority of the 
Group’s transactions and balances are 
recorded in one UK subsidiary.
 — We paid particular attention to the Initial 
Public Offering (‘IPO’) and admission 
to the Official List of the UK Listing 
Authority which occurred in March 2014. 
This impacted on a number of areas in 
the financial statements including the 
equity structure of the parent and the 
treatment of IPO costs. 
 — Taken together, the entities on which we 
performed our audit work accounted 
for 98% of Group expenses and 98% of 
Group loss before tax. 
 
Areas of focus:
 — Completeness of Research and 
Development accruals.
 — Measuring the fair value of awards under 
new share options schemes and the 
related accounting treatment.
 — Accounting for IPO costs.
 — Accounting for the changes in the 
capital structure as a result of the IPO.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing 
the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. 
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective 
judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering  
future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, 
we also addressed the risk of management override of internal 
controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias 
by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement 
due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on 
our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are 
identified as “areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set 
out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in 
order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, 
and any comments we make on the results of our procedures 
should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks 
identified by our audit. 
Independent Auditors’ report to the members  
of Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 73 Independent Auditors’ report to the members  
of Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Accounting for the changes in the capital structure as a 
result of the IPO 
Immediately prior to the admission of shares onto the main market 
for listed securities of the London Stock Exchange, the Company 
converted Preference shares into Ordinary shares and issued 
liquidation shares to the Preference Shareholders. Loan notes 
were also converted into Ordinary shares.
On 18 March 2014 each 10p Ordinary share was subdivided into 
125 0.08p Ordinary shares. In addition, new Ordinary shares were 
issued as part of the admission onto the London Stock Exchange 
on 18 March.
Share options have also been exercised by employees during the 
year under the EMI option scheme.
As a result of these transactions, the capital structure of the 
Company has been significantly altered. There is a risk that the 
accounting and disclosure implications of these agreements have 
not been correctly reflected in the financial statements.
We have examined the underlying documentation and associated 
accounting treatment for each of the transactions as follows:
 — For the conversion of Preference shares into Ordinary shares 
and the liquidation shares issued, we considered the terms 
of the shares in the articles of association to ensure their 
appropriate classification within equity.
 — We agreed the share movements in the year to the 
board meeting minutes and regulatory news service 
announcements and traced cash received for each issue of 
new shares to bank statements.
 — We inspected board approval for the share options exercised 
during March 2014.
 — The appropriate split between share capital and share 
premium was recalculated and confirmed as appropriate.
Based on the procedures performed we agreed with 
management’s classification, disclosure and presentation of the 
revised capital structure.
Accounting for IPO costs
The Group incurred £9.6m of costs in completing the IPO in March 
2014. Incremental costs that are directly attributable to the equity 
transaction are accounted for through equity, with the remaining 
costs through the income statement. There is an element of 
judgement and allocation in this treatment in order to determine 
what costs are directly attributable to a new equity issue.
Management performed an allocation of the IPO transaction costs 
by considering the type of expenditure incurred and whether it 
meets the criteria to be considered directly attributable to the 
issue of shares. From this determination, £9.4m was attributed to 
equity. There is a risk that these costs do not qualify as directly 
attributable to the equity transaction and, as such, should have 
been recorded in the income statement.
We obtained a sample of IPO cost invoices and considered 
whether management’s assessment of whether legal and 
professional fees incurred were directly attributable to the IPO was 
supportable.
Having tested the appropriateness of the split in expenditure, we 
then traced the amounts into the financial statements and tested 
they were appropriately included and disclosed.
As a result, we agreed with management’s allocation of the costs 
to equity and that the appropriate accounting treatment and 
disclosures were applied.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 74 Measuring the fair value of awards under new share 
options schemes and the related accounting treatment
The accounting treatment for share options can be complex 
and involves judgement regarding identifying the underlying 
assumptions and the appropriate model. Prior to the IPO, 
Circassia had a small number of share options under EMI 
approved schemes which gave rise to a charge of £98k in FY13. 
Following the IPO a further 2,206,611 share options were issued 
under a new Performance Share Scheme.
The newly granted share options were valued under the Black 
Scholes model or Monte Carlo model dependent on the 
performance vesting conditions.
The fair value determined drives the charge recognised by the 
Company.
The value of the shares in the Group used in the share options 
calculation has increased and therefore the share options charge 
has also increased. As a result the risk of a material error or 
misstatement is higher. In addition the new scheme includes 
market vesting performance conditions for some of the options 
grant which makes the fair value calculation more complex.
As a result there is a risk that the fair value of options could be 
measured incorrectly.
We obtained the grant award details and reviewed the 
performance conditions considering the reasonableness of the 
judgements made by management in determining the relevant 
assumptions utilised in determining the fair value of the options. 
We reviewed the fair value using a Monte Carlo method for all 
options issued with market vesting performance conditions and 
Black Scholes for any with non-market vesting conditions to test 
the accuracy of the calculation.
Our approach was underpinned by the following testing:
 — Assumed volatility was compared to the historical share price 
volatility of the Company since listing and also benchmarked 
against other companies in similar industries.
 — The dividend rate was reviewed against the Group’s dividend 
history and management’s assessment that no dividends will 
be declared in the foreseeable future.
 — The exercise price was agreed to the Group share option 
award agreements and the board meeting minutes approving 
the transaction.
 — The interest rate was compared to the UK 10 year Gilt rate 
at the date of issue for a comparable period and found to be 
materially similar.
 — The share price at grant date was compared to the listed 
share price on the day of grant.
In light of the above, we found that the method of calculating  
the fair value of share options has been applied consistently 
and with reasonable assumptions. The charge booked was 
not materially sensitive to what we considered to be a range 
of realistically possible alternative outcomes as to the levels of 
performance attained.
Completeness of research and development accruals
The Group is a clinical-stage speciality biopharmaceutical group 
focused on the development and commercialisation of a range of 
immunotherapy products for the treatment of allergies. 
The research operations of the Group are outsourced to Clinical 
Research Organisations (CROs) who submit applications for 
payment at regular intervals throughout the clinical trials.
During the year research and development costs for the Group 
totalled £38.6m of which £4.5m was accrued at year end in 
relation to invoices not yet received.
The appropriate timing and accuracy of these costs between 
financial periods requires close monitoring. Submissions for 
payment by suppliers do not always correspond to the periods 
in which the underling activities occurred, making the underlying 
calculations for the accruals more complex.
We performed substantive procedures to identify liabilities 
which were not recorded at the year end. This included testing a 
sample of invoices received after the year end and post year-end 
payments to confirm that they were recorded in the correct period.
We compared the level of expenses incurred to the previous 
year and to budget in order to identify any areas of apparent 
underspend where accruals may be required.
We further tested a sample of accruals to subsequent invoices 
received from suppliers to identify any significant differences.
From our procedures in relation to Research and Development 
accruals, there were no significant matters arising. We identified 
no material errors in the timing and accuracy of costs and their 
recognition in the correct period.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed 
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic 
structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls,  
and the industry in which the Group operates. 
The Group consists of four entities which are consolidated into the 
Group financial statements along with an equity investment in a joint 
venture. The majority of the Group’s operations are managed from 
the UK along with all associated books and records. A US subsidiary 
was created during the year which currently pays US employees. 
The joint venture is based in Canada but is immaterial to the Group. 
The costs incurred in the US are not significant to the Group. 
The most significant Group entity (Circassia Limited) was identified 
as requiring an audit of its complete financial information because 
its activity constituted the majority of the Group’s trading activity. 
In addition one further entity required an audit of certain balances 
based on its level of contribution to the Group’s overall results.
This work, all of which was carried out by the Group audit 
team, together with additional procedures performed on the 
consolidation, gave us sufficient appropriate audit evidence for  
our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 75 Independent Auditors’ report to the members  
of Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc continued 
Overall Group materiality £463k (2013: £245k).
How we determined it 1% of total Group expenses.
Rationale for benchmark applied The Group is currently at the research & development stage and therefore generates no 
revenue. As a result, business performance is monitored by investors as the level of spend for 
the year, which equates to total Group expenses.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of 
materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. 
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to 
determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent 
 
of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, 
both individually and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality 
for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them 
misstatements identified during our audit above £23k (2013: £12k) 
as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, 
warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ 
statement, set out on page 72, in relation to going concern.  
We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded 
that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using 
the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis 
presumes that the Group and parent Company have adequate 
resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend 
them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial 
statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded 
that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be 
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s 
and parent Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting 
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinions
In our opinion:
 — the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ 
report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
 — the information given in the Corporate governance statement 
set out on pages 36 to 41 with respect to internal control and 
risk management systems and the information about share 
capital structures are in the Directors’ report on pages 69 to 
71, consistent with the financial statements.
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 — information in the Annual report is:
 — materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 — apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the 
Group and parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 — otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions 
to report arising from this 
responsibility.
 — the statement given by the Directors on page 40, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (“the Code”), that they consider the Annual report taken as a whole to be fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the 
Group’s and parent Company’s performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent  
with our knowledge of the Group and parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions 
to report arising from this 
responsibility.
 — the section of the Annual report on page 42, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing 
the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the 
Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions 
to report arising from this 
responsibility.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 76 Adequacy of accounting records and information and 
explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
 — we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
 — adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or
 — the parent Company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to 
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been 
prepared by the parent Company. We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent Company’s 
compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 72, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on  
the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and  
ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with  
the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and 
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other 
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom 
this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: 
 — whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the 
Group’s and the parent Company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
 — the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the Directors; and
 — the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the 
Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our 
own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial 
statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other 
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide 
a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit 
evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Simon Ormiston (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London, Embankment Place
26 February 2015
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 77 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2014
 Notes
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
Research and development costs (38,574) (21,101)
Administrative expenses (7,239) (3,817)
Other gains 8 – 393
Operating loss 6 (45,813) (24,525)
Finance costs 5 (18) (21)
Finance income 5 1,924 606
Finance income – net 1,906 585
Share of (loss)/profit of joint venture 14 (82) 46
Loss before tax (43,989) (23,894)
Taxation 9 8,881 3,913
Loss for the financial year attributable to owners of the parent (35,108) (19,981)
Other comprehensive expense
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss:
Share of other comprehensive expense of joint venture 14 (10) (18)
Currency translation differences 24 (6) –
Total other comprehensive expense for the year, net of tax (16) (18)
Total comprehensive expense for the year (35,124) (19,999)
Loss per share attributable to owners of the parent during the year (expressed in £ per share)
  £ £
Basic and diluted loss per share
Loss per share from continuing operations (0.21) (1.26)
 
The results for the financial years above are derived entirely from continuing operations.
The Company has elected to take the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present the parent Company profit 
and loss account.
The profit for the parent Company for the year was £467k (2013: £57k).
The notes on pages 84 to 105 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 78 Consolidated statement of financial position
as at 31 December 2014
 Notes
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant & equipment 11 309 –
Intangible assets 12 2,050 2,012
Investment in joint venture 14 103 195
  2,462 2,207
Current assets
Other receivables 15 2,649 1,215
Current tax assets 9 8,824 3,995
Short-term bank deposits 16 156,874 7,047
Cash and cash equivalents 16 29,716 23,568
  198,063 35,825
Total assets 200,525 38,032
Equity and liabilities
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent Company
Ordinary shares 21 152 13
Preference shares 21 – 52
Share premium 23 297,938 103,403
Share option reserve 25 1,305 56
Translation reserve 24 (6) –
Accumulated losses 25 (108,630) (73,479)
Total equity  190,759 30,045
Liabilities
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 17 9,766 5,975
Financial liabilities 18 – 2,012
Total liabilities 9,766 7,987
Total equity and liabilities  200,525 38,032
 
The notes on pages 84 to 105 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 78 to 105 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2015  
and were signed on its behalf by
Steven Harris Julien Cotta 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc
Registered number: 05822706
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 79 Parent Company statement of financial position
as at 31 December 2014
 Notes
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries 13 3,035 1,780
  3,035 1,780
Current assets
Other receivables 15 122,583 94,157
Short-term bank deposits 16 156,874 7,047
Cash and cash equivalents 16 18,754 3,839
  298,211 105,043
Total assets 301,246 106,823
Equity and liabilities
Equity attributable to the owners of the Company
Ordinary shares 21 152 13
Preference shares 21 – 52
Share premium account 23 297,938 103,403
Share option reserve 25 1,305 56
Retained earnings 25 1,198 764
Total equity 300,593 104,288
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 17 653 523
Financial liabilities 18 – 2,012
  653 2,535
Total equity and liabilities 301,246 106,823
 
The notes on pages 84 to 105 are an integral part of these financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 78 to 105 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2015  
and were signed on its behalf by
Steven Harris Julien Cotta 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc
Registered number: 05822706
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 80 Group and parent Company statement of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Group Company
 Notes
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash used in operations 26 (41,010) (22,168) (28,695) (6,199)
Interest received 246 1,279 206 366
Interest paid (15) (11) (7) –
Tax credit received  4,052 3,019 – –
Net cash used in operating activities (36,727) (17,881) (28,496) (5,833)
Cash flows from investing activities
Investment in subsidiary – – (6) –
Purchases of intangibles (38) – – –
Purchases of property, plant & equipment (333) – – –
(Increase)/decrease in short-term bank deposits (149,827) 27,179 (149,827) 4,184
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities  (150,198) 27,179 (149,833) 4,184
Cash flows from financing activities 
Proceeds from issue of Ordinary shares 192,574 2 192,574 2
Net cash from financing activities  192,574 2 192,574 2
      
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 5,649 9,300 14,245 (1,647)
Cash and cash equivalents 1 January 16 23,568 13,981 3,839 5,621
Exchange gains/(losses) on cash and cash equivalents 499 287 670 (135)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 16 29,716 23,568 18,754 3,839
 
The notes on pages 84 to 105 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 81 Group statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2014
 Notes
Share  
capital  
£’000
Share 
premium 
£’000
Share option 
reserve 
£’000
Translation 
reserve 
£’000
Accumulated 
losses 
£’000
Total  
equity 
£’000
At 1 January 2013 21, 23, 25 63 103,403 1 – (53,480) 49,987
Comprehensive expense:
Loss for the financial year – – – – (19,981) (19,981)
Other comprehensive expense:
Share of other comprehensive expense 
of joint venture – – – – (18) (18)
Total comprehensive expense 25 – – – – (19,999) (19,999)
Transactions with owners:
Issue of Ordinary shares 21 2 – – – – 2
Employee share option scheme 25 – – 55 – – 55
At 31 December 2013 21, 23, 25 65 103,403 56 – (73,479) 30,045
At 1 January 2014 21, 23, 25 65 103,403 56 – (73,479) 30,045
Comprehensive expense:
Loss for the financial year – – – – (35,108) (35,108)
Other comprehensive expense:
Share of other comprehensive expense 
of joint venture – – – – (10) (10)
Currency translation differences – – – (6) – (6)
Total comprehensive expense 24, 25 – – – (6) (35,118) (35,124)
Transactions with owners:
Issue of Ordinary shares 21 54 194,535 – – – 194,589
Capitalised reserves of bonus shares 
at IPO 25 33 – – – (33) –
Employee share option scheme 25 – – 1,249 – – 1,249
At 31 December 2014 21, 23, 24, 25 152 297,938 1,305 (6) (108,630) 190,759
 
The notes on pages 84 to 105 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 82 Parent Company statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2014
 Notes
Share  
capital  
£’000
Share 
premium 
£’000
Share option 
reserve 
£’000
Retained 
earnings 
£’000
Total  
equity 
£’000
At 1 January 2013 21, 23, 25 63 103,403 1 707 104,174
Profit and total comprehensive income 25 – – – 57 57
Transactions with owners:
Issue of Ordinary shares 21 2 – – – 2
Employee share option scheme 25 – – 55 – 55
At 31 December 2013 21, 23, 25 65 103,403 56 764 104,288
At 1 January 2014 21, 23, 25 65 103,403 56 764 104,288
Profit and total comprehensive income 25 – – – 467 467
Transactions with owners:
Issue of Ordinary shares 21 54 194,535 – – 194,589
Capitalised reserves of bonus shares at IPO 25 33 – – (33) –
Employee share option scheme 25 – – 1,249 – 1,249
At 31 December 2014 21, 23, 25 152 297,938 1,305 1,198 300,593
 
The notes on pages 84 to 105 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 83 Notes to the financial statements
1. Summary of significant accounting policies 
General information
The Group is a clinical-stage specialty biopharmaceutical group 
focused on the development and commercialisation of a range 
of immunotherapy products for the treatment of allergy. These 
product candidates were developed using the Company’s 
innovative technology, ToleroMune
®
 which was initially developed 
at Imperial College, London by Mark Larché and Barry Kay and 
acquired by the co-founders of the Company, Steve Harris and 
Charles Swingland in 2006. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc is a public limited company which 
is listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and 
domiciled in England and Wales. The Company is resident in 
England and the registered office is The Magdalen Centre, Robert 
Robinson Avenue, Oxford Science Park, Oxford, Oxfordshire, 
England, OX4 4GA.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of this 
financial information are set out below. These policies have been 
consistently applied to all the financial years presented, unless 
otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
The financial information has been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by 
the European Union (‘IFRS’), International Financial Reporting 
Interpretations Committee (‘IFRIC’) interpretations endorsed by 
the European Union and with those parts of the Companies 
Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The 
financial information is prepared on the going concern basis and 
in accordance with the historical cost convention as modified by 
revaluation of financial liabilities (including derivative instruments)  
at fair value through profit or loss.
Going concern
Though the Group continues to make losses, the Directors 
believe it is appropriate to prepare the financial information on the 
going concern basis. This is because the Group’s research into 
new products continues to progress according to plan and the 
additional funding secured in March 2014 when the Company 
successfully completed its IPO, will allow the Group to meet its 
liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeable future.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures
a) New and amended standards adopted by the Group
No new or amended standards were adopted during the year. 
The following standards had previously been early adopted  
and applied consistently in the years ended 31 December 2013  
and 2014 (effective 1 January 2014 and early adopted from  
1 January 2013):
 — IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statements’;
 — IFRS 11 ‘ Joint arrangements’;
 — IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of interests in other entities’;
 — IAS 27 (revised 2011), ‘Separate financial statements’; 
 — IAS 28 (revised 2011), ‘Investments in associates and  
joint ventures’;
 — IAS 32 (amendment), ‘Financial instruments – Presentation’  
on asset and liability offsetting;
 — Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12; and
 — Amendments to IAS 36, ‘Impairment of assets’.
b)  Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing 
standards that are not yet effective and have not been early 
adopted by the Group
IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’, on ‘Classification and measurement’ 
(effective 1 January 2015). This is the first part of a new standard on 
classification and measurement of financial assets that will replace 
IAS 39. IFRS 9 has two measurement categories: amortised cost 
and fair value. All equity instruments are measured at fair value. 
A debt instrument is at amortised cost only if the entity is holding 
it to collect contractual cash flows and the cash flows represent 
principal and interest. Otherwise it is at fair value through profit or 
loss. Amortised cost accounting will also be applicable for most 
financial liabilities, with bifurcation of embedded derivatives. The 
main change is that in cases where the fair value option is taken for 
financial liabilities, the part of a fair value change due to an entity’s 
own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income rather 
than the income statement, unless this creates an accounting 
mismatch. The Group is yet to assess the impact of IFRS 9 on its 
financial information. The Group will also consider the impact of the 
remaining phases of IFRS 9. 
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contract with customers’ (effective from 
1 January 2017), IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’ (effective from 1 January), and 
IFRS 14 ‘Regulatory deferral accounts’ (effective from 1 January 
2016) will have no impact on the Group.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not  
yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on 
the Group.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 84 Use of estimates and assumptions
The preparation of financial information in conformity with IFRS 
requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and 
liabilities at the date of the financial information and the reported 
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. 
Estimates and judgements are continually made and are based 
on historic experience and other factors, including expectations 
of future events that are believed to be reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions
Where the Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning 
the future, the resulting accounting estimates will seldom exactly 
match actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have 
a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are 
addressed below.
Clinical study accruals
Due to the amounts involved, the estimates and assumptions 
regarding the amounts accrued for clinical study costs have 
a greater risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities. 
Intangible assets
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any 
impairment. The key assumptions used for the value in use 
calculations are given in note 12 and in particular the anticipated 
launch date. If the Company is unable to obtain regulatory approval 
or to commercialise its product candidates, or experiences 
significant delays in doing so, this could result in an impairment  
of the related goodwill and intellectual property rights.
Share based payments
Options were valued using the Black Scholes option pricing 
model or the Monte Carlo Simulation depending on the type of 
option issued. For each relevant option grant, individual valuation 
assumptions were assessed based upon conditions at the date of 
grant. The range of assumptions in the calculation of share based 
payments is given in note 22.
Classification of IPO costs
Due to the nature of an initial public offering (IPO), new shares 
are issued to investors to raise additional capital and, along with 
existing shares, subsequently become listed on a stock exchange. 
Judgement is required in assessing whether the associated 
expenditure is directly attributable to the issue of shares and 
whether it meets the criteria to be offset against the share  
premium account.
Consolidation
(a) Subsidiaries 
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over 
which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when 
the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its 
involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns 
through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated 
from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are 
de-consolidated from the date that control ceases. 
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on 
transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Accounting 
policies of subsidiaries are consistent with the policies adopted by 
the Group.
(b) Joint arrangements 
The Group has applied IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements since  
1 January 2013. Under IFRS 11 investments in joint arrangements 
are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending 
on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc has assessed the nature of its joint 
arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures. Joint 
ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures 
are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise 
the Group’s share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and 
movements in other comprehensive income. When the Group’s 
share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interests 
in the joint ventures (which includes any long-term interests that, 
in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in the joint 
ventures), the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it 
has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint 
ventures.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint 
ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in 
the joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless 
the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset 
transferred. Accounting policies of the joint ventures have been 
changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies 
adopted by the Group. 
Segmental reporting
The Group has one single business segment, based upon its 
proprietary technology, operated out of a single geographical 
location. This is consistent with the internal reporting provided to 
the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-
maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing 
performance, has been identified as the Executive Directors, who 
make strategic decisions. 
Clinical study expenses
Where payments to clinical study sites are made in advance for 
the purchase of stocks of materials for use in clinical studies, 
the relevant costs are included in receivables as prepaid clinical 
study expenses. Expenses are charged to the statement of 
comprehensive income as clinical study services are carried out  
by third-party suppliers, or clinical study materials are received. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 85 Notes to the financial statements continued
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial instruments comprise cash and cash 
equivalents, short-term bank deposits, debtors and creditors 
arising directly from operations. 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and short-
term deposits which have an original maturity of three months 
or less and are readily convertible into known amounts of cash. 
Such assets are classified as current, where management intend 
to dispose of the asset within twelve months of the end of the 
reporting period. Bank deposits with maturity of more than twelve 
months after the end of the reporting period are classified as non-
current assets.
The Group previously held derivatives in 2013 which comprised 
solely of forward rate foreign exchange contracts and were 
categorised as financial liabilities through profit or loss. Where 
derivatives exist in the financial year, they are initially recognised 
at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and 
are subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each reporting 
date, with any resulting gain or loss recognised through profit or 
loss. With the exception of the loan notes in 2013, the Group does 
not have any committed borrowing facilities, as its cash, cash 
equivalents and short-term deposits are sufficient to finance its 
current operations. Cash balances are mainly held on short and 
medium term deposits with quality financial institutions, in line 
with the Group’s policy to minimise the risk of loss. The main risks 
associated with the Group’s financial instruments relate to interest 
rate risk and foreign currency risk (note 2.). 
The Group had in issue loan notes which were convertible into 
fully paid Ordinary shares at any time and could be redeemed, if 
they have not previously been converted, on 31 March 2016. The 
loan notes were recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction 
costs incurred and subsequently carried at amortised cost. The 
loan notes were classified as current liabilities as the Group did 
not have an unconditional right to defer settlement for at least 12 
months after the end of the reporting period. As part of the capital 
reorganisation and prior to the IPO, loan notes were converted into 
equity shares. Borrowing costs were recognised in profit or loss in 
the period in which they were incurred. See note 21 for details on 
the conversion of the loan notes in 2014.
Leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of 
ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating 
leases. Payments made under operating leases (net of any 
incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the statement  
of comprehensive income on a straight line basis over the period  
of the lease. 
Intangible assets
Intangible fixed assets, relating to goodwill and intellectual property 
rights acquired through licensing or assigning patents and know-
how are carried at historic cost, less accumulated amortisation, 
where the useful economic life of the asset is finite and the asset 
will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs. 
Where a finite useful life of the acquired intangible asset cannot 
be determined, the asset is tested annually for impairment by 
allocating the assets to the cash generating units to which they 
relate. Amortisation would commence when product candidates 
underpinned by the intellectual property rights become available for 
commercial use. Amortisation would be calculated on a straight line 
basis over the shorter of the remaining useful life of the intellectual 
property or the estimated sales life of the product candidates. No 
amortisation has been charged to date, as the product candidates 
underpinned by the intellectual property rights are not yet available 
for commercial use. 
Expenditure on product development is capitalised as an intangible 
asset and amortised over the expected useful economic life of the 
product candidate concerned. Capitalisation commences from the 
point at which technical feasibility and commercial viability of the 
product candidate can be demonstrated and the Group is satisfied 
that it is probable that future economic benefits will result from the 
product candidate once completed. Capitalisation ceases when 
the product candidate receives regulatory approval for launch.  
No such costs have been capitalised to date.
Expenditure on research and development activities that do not 
meet the above criteria, including ongoing costs associated with 
acquired intellectual property rights and intellectual property rights 
generated internally by the Group, is charged to the statement 
of comprehensive income as incurred. Intellectual property and 
in-process research and development from acquisitions are 
recognised as intangible assets at fair value. Any residual excess 
of consideration over the fair value of net assets in an acquisition is 
recognised as goodwill in the financial statements.
Expenditure on software costs are capitalised as an intangible 
asset and amortised over the expected useful economic life of 
the software. Until such an asset is fully developed, the costs are 
capitalised and classified within intangibles assets as ‘Software in 
development’. These costs are not amortised until the software has 
been fully developed and operational, at which point the total cost of 
the software development is amortised over its estimated useful life.
Impairment of non-financial assets
Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill or 
intangible assets not ready for use, are not subject to amortisation 
and are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject 
to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may 
not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount 
by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable 
amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair 
value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of 
assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for 
which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating 
units). Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an 
impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at 
each reporting date. Charges or credits for impairment are passed 
through the statement of comprehensive income.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less 
depreciation. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly 
attributable to the acquisition of the items. Subsequent costs 
are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a 
separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future 
economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group 
and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying 
amount of replaced parts is derecognised. All other repairs and 
maintenance are charged to the income statement during the 
financial period in which they are incurred. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 86 Depreciation is calculated using the straight line method to allocate 
the cost of assets over their estimated useful lives, as follows:
Leasehold improvements 
  
Over the life of the unbreakable portion of the lease 43%
 
Individually significant tangible assets that are intended to be held 
by the Group for use in the production or supply of goods and 
services or for administrative purposes and that are expected to 
provide economic benefit for more than one year are capitalised. 
All other assets of insignificant value are charged to the income 
statement in the year of acquisition.
Other receivables 
Other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective 
interest method, less provision for impairment. A provision for 
impairment of other receivables is established when there is 
objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all 
amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. 
Trade payables
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services 
that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business 
from suppliers. They are initially recognised at fair value and 
subsequently held at amortised cost. Accounts payable are 
classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year  
or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Cash and cash equivalents
In the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash 
equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held on call with  
banks, and other short-term highly liquid investments with  
original maturities of three months or less from the date of  
original investment. 
Share capital 
Ordinary shares and Preference shares are classified as equity. 
All shares are classified as equity as there are no mandatorily 
redeemable shares in the Company. Incremental costs directly 
attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in 
equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. 
Employee benefit costs
The Group makes contributions to defined contribution personal 
pension schemes for its Directors and employees. The pension 
cost charge recognised in the year represents amounts payable 
by the Group to the funds. The Group has no further payment 
obligations once the contributions have been paid.  
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit  
expense when they are due.
Share based payments
The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share based 
compensation plans, under which the entity receives services 
from employees as consideration for equity instruments (options) 
of the Group. The fair value of the employee services received in 
exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense. 
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the 
fair value of the options granted:
 — including the effect of any market performance conditions  
(for example, an entity’s share price);
 — excluding the impact of any service and non-market 
performance vesting conditions (for example, profitability, 
sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the entity 
over a specified time period); and
 — including the impact of any non-vesting conditions (for 
example, the requirement for employees to save).
Non-market performance and service conditions are included in 
assumptions about the number of options that are expected to 
vest. The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which 
is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to 
be satisfied.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates 
of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the 
non-market vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the 
revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a 
corresponding adjustment to equity.
When the options are exercised, the Company issues new shares. 
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction 
costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share 
premium.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to 
the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as 
a capital contribution. The fair value of employee services received, 
measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised 
over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary 
undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity in the parent 
entity financial statements.
The Group’s employees participate in various share option 
schemes as disclosed in note 22. Equity settled share based 
payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant and 
expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period of the 
award. At the end of each reporting period the Group revises its 
estimate of the number of options that are expected to become 
exercisable. The financial consequences of revisions to the original 
estimates, if any, are recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. 
The fair value of share options is measured using either the Black 
Scholes option pricing model or the Monte Carlo Simulation. 
This is dependent on the conditions attached to each of the 
issued options. Where conditions are non-market based the 
Black Scholes option pricing model is used. Where market based 
conditions are attached to options, the fair value is determined 
using the Monte Carlo Simulation. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 87 Notes to the financial statements continued
Other employee benefits
The expected cost of compensated short-term absence  
(e.g. holidays) is recognised when employees render services that 
increased their entitlement. An accrual is made for holidays earned 
but not taken, and prepayments recognised for holidays taken in 
excess of days earned. 
Foreign currency translation
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated 
into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the 
financial year. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated 
into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the 
transaction. Foreign exchange differences are taken to the 
statement of comprehensive income in the year in which they  
arise and presented within ‘Finance costs or income’.
Foreign exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 
into the Group presentational currency, are recognised as a 
separate element of other comprehensive income. Cumulative 
exchange differences are presented in a separate component  
of equity entitled translation reserve.
Taxation including deferred tax
The charge for current tax is based on the results for the year, 
adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowed. It is 
calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted at the end of each reporting period. 
The Group is entitled to claim tax credits in the United Kingdom for 
certain research and development expenditure. The amount included 
in the financial statements at the year end represents the credit 
receivable by the Group for the year and adjustments to prior years. 
Deferred tax is accounted for using the liability method in respect of 
temporary differences arising from differences between the carrying 
amount of assets and liabilities in the financial information and the 
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. 
In principle, deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to 
the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available 
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint 
ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal 
of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the average tax rates that are expected 
to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is 
settled. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the statement of 
comprehensive income, except when it relates to items credited 
or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also 
dealt with in equity. 
2. Financial and capital risk management 
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard 
the ability to continue as a going concern and ensure that sufficient 
capital is in place to fund the Group’s research activities. The 
Group’s principal method of adjusting the capital available is 
through issuing new shares. The Group’s share capital and share 
premium are disclosed in notes 21 and 23 respectively. The Group 
monitors the availability of capital with regard to its forecast future 
expenditure on an ongoing basis. The Group has extinguished 
its liability instruments (loan notes) through the issue of equity 
instruments during the year.
Financial risk factors
The Group’s simple structure, operating from a single location in the 
United Kingdom, and the lack of external debt financing reduces 
the range of financial risks to which it is exposed. Monitoring of 
financial risk is part of the Board’s ongoing risk management, the 
effectiveness of which is reviewed annually. The Group’s agreed 
policies are implemented by the Chief Executive Officer, who 
submits periodic reports to the Board. 
a) Foreign exchange risk 
The Group currently has no revenue. The majority of operating 
costs are denominated in Sterling, United States dollars, Canadian 
dollars, Euro or Swiss francs. Foreign exchange risk arises from 
future commercial transactions and recognised assets and 
liabilities.
In relation to foreign currency risk, the Group’s policy is to hold 
the majority of its funds in Sterling, and to use short – medium 
term currency purchase options (including spot purchases and 
forward contracts) and interest-bearing foreign currency deposits to 
manage short – medium term fluctuations in exchange rates. 
The Group sometimes uses short-term currency purchase options 
and interest-bearing deposits of Swiss francs and Euros to manage 
short-term fluctuations in exchange rates. The Group uses foreign 
currency forward contracts to manage medium term fluctuations in 
Canadian and United States dollars exchange rates. 
At 31 December 2014, if the Euro had weakened/strengthened 
by 5% against Sterling with all other variables held constant, the 
post tax loss for the year would have been £5,595 (2013: £709) 
lower/higher, as a result of net foreign exchange gains/losses on 
translation of Euro-denominated payables and foreign exchange 
losses/gains on translation of Euro-denominated bank balances.
The impact on post tax loss at 31 December 2014 of a 5% 
weakening/strengthening of the US Dollar against Sterling with all 
other variables held constant would have been a decrease/increase 
of £30,304 (2013: £38,509).
The impact on post tax loss at 31 December 2014 of a 5% 
weakening/strengthening of the Canadian dollar against Sterling 
with all other variables held constant would have been a decrease/
increase of £23,713 (2013: £4,627). 
The impact on post tax loss at 31 December 2014 of a 15% 
weakening/strengthening of the Swiss franc against Sterling with all 
other variables held constant would have been a decrease/increase 
of £129,561 (2013: based on 5% £4,984).
The change in foreign exchange rates that is assessed to be 
reasonably likely for each currency except Swiss francs in 2014 is 
5%. As the Swiss franc strengthened by 15% after the year end, 
this has been used as the basis for assessment in determining the 
impact on post tax loss.
b) Interest rate risk
The Group’s policy in relation to interest rate risk is to monitor short 
and medium term interest rates and to place cash on deposit 
for periods that optimise the amount of interest earned while 
maintaining access to sufficient funds to meet day to day cash 
requirements. 
The Group does not have any committed external borrowing 
facilities, as its cash and cash equivalents and short-term 
deposit balances are sufficient to finance its current operations. 
Consequently, there is no material exposure to interest rate risk  
in respect of interest payable. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 88  At 31 December
Less than  
1 year  
2014  
£’000
Less than  
1 year  
2013  
£’000
Trade and other payables 9,766 5,975
Financial liabilities (convertible loan notes) - 2,012
Total 9,766 7,987
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
There were no derivatives at 31 December 2014 or 31 December 2013. Hedge accounting was not used.
Fair value estimates
There were no financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss at 31 December 2014 or 31 December 2013.
If interest rates had been 10 basis points higher/lower the  
impact on net loss in 2014 would have been an increase/decrease 
of £169,105 (2013: £39,800) due to changes in the amount of 
interest receivable. 
c) Credit risks
The Group’s policy following Admission to the London Stock 
Exchange is to place funds with financial institutions which have 
a minimum credit rating with Fitch IBCA of A-long term/F1 short 
term. During 2014 the Group placed funds on deposit with 12 
banks (2013: nine banks). The Group does not allocate a quota to 
individual institutions but seeks to diversify its investments, where 
this is consistent with achieving competitive rates of return. It is the 
Group’s policy to place not more than £35 million (or the equivalent 
in other currencies) with any one counterparty.
The value of financial instruments held represents the maximum 
exposure that the Group has to them. There is no collateral held for 
this type of credit risk. No credit limits were exceeded during any 
of the periods reported, and management does not expect any 
material losses from non-performance by these counterparties.
d) Cash flow and liquidity risk 
Funds are generally placed on deposit with the maturity profile of 
investments being structured to ensure that sufficient liquid funds 
are available to meet operating requirements. The Directors do not 
consider that there is presently a material cash flow or liquidity risk.
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities into 
relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the 
balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. There were  
no financial liabilities outstanding for periods greater than one year.  
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contracted 
undiscounted cash flows:
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 89 Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Principal activity analysis
The Group’s loss on ordinary activities before taxation is derived entirely from its one business segment, pharmaceutical research and 
development, which is carried out at a single site. All costs of acquisition of intangible assets borne by the Group, relate to this one 
segment. In addition, all other non-cash expenses incurred by the Group relate to this one segment. 
 
4. Employees and Directors 
The average monthly number of persons (including Executive Directors) employed by the Group during the year was: 
By activity
2014  
Number
2013  
Number
Office and management 15 6
Research and development 34 14
Total average headcount 49 20
 
Company
The average number of administration staff employed by the Company during the year, including Executive Directors was 2 (2013: nil).
Group Company
Employee benefit costs
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
Wages and salaries 6,128 2,744 1,788 –
Social security costs 762 331 183 –
Pension costs 358 215 91 –
Share options expense 1,249 55 – –
Total employee benefit costs 8,497 3,345 2,062 –
 
The Group contributes to defined contribution pension schemes for its Executive Directors and employees. Contributions of £29,876 
(included in other payables) were payable to the funds at the year end (2013: £8,768).
The details of Directors of the Group who received emoluments from the Group during the year are shown in the Annual report on 
remuneration in the Remuneration Committee report.
Key management personnel
Key management includes Directors (Executive and Non-Executive), the VP of Commercial Operations, the Senior VP of Corporate 
Development, the Chief Commercial Officer (start date 15 September 2014), the General Counsel (start date 7 July 2014), VP of Human 
Resources (start date 4 June 2014), the Chief Medical Officer (start date 6 January 2014) and the VP of Investor Relations (start date  
20 January 2014, leave date 5 August 2014). The compensation paid or payable to key management is set out below. 
 
2014  
£’000
2013  
£’000
Salaries and fees 2,048 1,318
Benefits in kind 15 13
Pension contributions to money purchase schemes 208 130
Share based payments 815 55
Bonus 1,221 347
Total 4,307 1,863
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 90 5. Finance income and costs
 
2014  
£’000
2013  
£’000
Finance costs:
Bank charges payable (16) (11)
Interest payable on loan notes (2) (10)
Total finance costs (18) (21)
Finance income:
Bank interest receivable 1,746 606
Net gain on foreign exchange 178 –
Total finance income 1,924 606
Net finance income 1,906 585
 
Translational foreign exchange gains and losses relating to cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits have been reallocated 
from ‘Administrative expenses’ to ‘Finance costs’ in 2014. 
 
6. Operating loss
 
2014  
£’000
2013  
£’000
Employee benefit costs (note 4) 8,497 3,345
Externally contracted research & development 33,419 19,080
Legal and professional fees including patent costs 1,763 707
Net loss on foreign exchange
1
– 480
Foreign exchange forward contract derivative (profit) (note 8) – (393)
Operating lease expense 330 89
Depreciation 24 –
Impairment – 122
Other expenses 1,780 1,095
Total operating loss 45,813 24,525
1
  As explained in note 5, translational foreign exchange gains and losses on cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits have been reallocated from 
‘Administrative expenses’ to ‘Finance costs’ in 2014 on the face of the income statement. Translational foreign exchange gains and losses on cash and cash 
equivalents and short-term deposits are disclosed in ‘Administrative expenses’ in 2013
 
7. Auditors’ remuneration
Services provided by the Group’s Auditor and its associates
During the year the Group obtained services from the Auditor as detailed below:
Group
2014  
£’000
2013  
£’000
Fees payable to the Company’s Auditor and its associates for the audit of the 
parent Company and consolidated financial statements 50 16
Fees payable to the Company’s Auditor and its associates for other services:
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 5 –
Audit related assurance services 5 –
Tax compliance services 5 5
Other assurance services 235 235
Other 10 –
Total 310 256
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 91 Notes to the financial statements continued
8. Other gains
 
2014  
£’000
2013  
£’000
Foreign exchange forward contract derivative gain – 393
 
9. Taxation
The Group is entitled to claim tax credits in the United Kingdom for certain research and development expenditure. The amount included 
in the financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 represents the credit receivable by the Group for the year 
and adjustments to prior years. The 2014 amounts have not yet been agreed with the relevant tax authorities.  
Continuing operations
2014  
£’000
2013  
£’000
United Kingdom corporation tax research and development credit (8,824) (3,995)
Adjustments in respect of prior year (57) 82
Income tax credit (8,881) (3,913)
 
The tax credit for the year is lower (2013: lower) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%). The 
differences are explained below:
 
2014  
£’000
2013  
£’000
Loss on ordinary activities before tax (43,989) (23,894)
Loss on ordinary activities before tax multiplied by the standard rate of 
corporation tax in the UK of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%) (9,471) (5,555)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes (permanent differences) (937) 12
Temporary timing differences (43) –
Research & development relief 100%/125% mark-up on expenses (7,572) (4,691)
Surrender of losses for research & development tax credit refund 5,118 4,449
Adjustments in respect of prior year (57) 82
Tax losses carried forward to future periods 4,081 1,790
Current tax credit for the year (8,881) (3,913)
 
At 31 December 2014, the Group had tax losses to be carried forward of approximately £76.4m (2013: £58.0m).
At 31 December 2014, the Group has current tax assets arising from tax credits in the United Kingdom for certain research and 
development expenditure of £8.8m (2013: £3.9m).
No deferred tax assets are recognised. See note 20 for more details.
 
10. Loss per share
Basic loss per share is calculated by dividing the loss attributable to Ordinary equity holders of the Company by the weighted average 
number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year. 
 
 2014 2013 
Loss from continuing operations attributable to Ordinary equity owners  
of the parent Company (£’000) (35,108) (19,981)
Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue (Number
1
) 169,118,824 15,812,679
Loss per share (£0.21) (£1.26)
 
As net losses from continuing operations were recorded in 2014 and 2013, the dilutive potential shares are anti-dilutive for the earnings 
per share calculation.
1
  Please refer to called-up share capital note (see note 21) regarding the change in the number of shares. Pursuant to IAS 33.26, the weighted average number 
of Ordinary shares outstanding during the year and for all years presented have been adjusted for the subdivision of each 10p Ordinary share into 125 Ordinary 
shares of 0.08p 
 
The additional Ordinary shares issued in respect of the above events have been treated as if the events had occurred at the beginning of the earliest year reported
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 92 11. Property, plant & equipment 
Group
  
 
Leasehold  
Improvements  
£’000
Cost  
At 1 January and 31 December 2013 –
Additions 333 
As at 31 December 2014 333 
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January and 31 December 2013 –
Depreciation charge (24)
As at 31 December 2014 (24)
Net book value at 31 December 2013 –
Net book value at 31 December 2014 309
 
All of the above assets are wholly owned and not pledged as security against any of the Group’s liabilities.
 
12. Intangible assets 
Group
Goodwill 
 £’000
Intellectual 
property 
rights  
£’000
Software in 
development 
£’000
Total  
£’000
Cost    
At 1 January 2013 1,835 437 – 2,272
Additions – – – –
As at 31 December 2013 1,835 437 – 2,272
Additions – – 38 38
As at 31 December 2014 1,835 437 38 2,310
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2013 – (138) – (138)
Impairment charge – (122) – (122)
As at 31 December 2013 – (260) – (260)
Impairment charge – – – –
As at 31 December 2014 – (260) – (260)
Net book value at 31 December 2013 1,835 177 – 2,012
Net book value at 31 December 2014 1,835 177 38 2,050
 
Impairment charges are included within research and development costs in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.  
An impairment test is performed annually based on the value in use of the intangible assets. 
The cumulative impairment charge at 1 January 2013 arose in 2008 when the results of a clinical study for dopexamine indicated that one 
licence agreement should be fully impaired.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 93 Notes to the financial statements continued
In 2013, the results of the clinical study for the Company’s psoriasis product indicated that this licence be fully impaired. In addition,  
a full impairment charge has been taken on a licence relating to a peanut product.
The goodwill arose on the purchase of 100% of the share capital of Circassia Limited from Imperial Innovations Businesses LLP on  
17 July 2006. The goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of assets acquired.
The Group tests annually whether goodwill and intangible assets have suffered any impairment and tests more frequently when events 
or circumstances indicate that the current carrying value may not be recoverable. No such adverse events or circumstances have arisen 
in the year and the market capitalisation of the Group at the year end is substantially in excess of the carrying value of the Group’s net 
assets. The Directors consider there to be one cash-generating unit and have determined the recoverable amount based on value in use 
calculations, which require the use of estimates and assumptions.
The calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections. In light of the stage of development of the product candidates these cover a ten year 
period. Cash flows beyond the ten year period are extrapolated using the estimated growth rates stated below. The growth rates do not 
exceed the long-term average growth rate for the business. The discount rate used is pre-tax and reflects specific risks relating to the 
Group and uncertainties surrounding the cash flow projections, particularly in relation to the assumed successful launch of the Group’s 
products in the expected timeframe and the resulting sales.
The key assumptions used for the value in use calculations for 2013 and 2014 are as follows:
Anticipated launch dateCat-SPIRE 2017 
 
Tier 2 product candidates (House Dust Mite-SPIRE,  
Grass-SPIRE, Ragweed-SPIRE) 2018 – 2020 
 
Remaining pipeline 2020 – 2022
Research and development costs Based on management forecasts of clinical study costs for its product candidates, as well as 
related expenses associated with the regulatory approval process and commercialisation.
Sales value and volume Estimates of sales value and volume are internal forecasts based on both internal and external 
market information and market research commissioned by the Company.
Advertising and promotion investment Based on management forecasts of advertising and promotion required in the key territories.
Profit margins Margins reflect management’s forecasts of sales values and costs of manufacture adjusted 
for its expectations of market developments.
Period of specified projected cash 
flows
10 years
Terminal growth rate Terminal growth rates based on management’s estimate of future long-term  
average growth rate: 
2014 0% 
2013 0%
Discount rate Discount rates based on Group WACC, adjusted where appropriate: 
2014  20% 
2013  20%
 
In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a change to key assumptions that are reasonably possible is unlikely to 
result in an impairment of the related goodwill. Therefore, the Group did not take a goodwill impairment charge for the years ended  
31 December 2014 and 2013. 
Software in development relates to the development of a new financial reporting software platform that was not yet complete at year end. 
Once this is complete and the system fully operational, it will be reviewed for impairment on a regular basis. 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 94 13. Investments in subsidiaries 
 
2014 
 £’000 
2013 
£’000 
Investments in subsidiaries at 1 January 1,780 1,725
Investment in Circassia Pharmaceuticals Inc 6 –
Equity settled instruments granted to employees of subsidiaries 1,249 55
Investments in subsidiaries at 31 December 3,035 1,780
The capital contribution relating to share based payment is for 3,165,857 (2013: 3,010,375) 0.08p share options granted by the Company 
to employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group. Further details on the Group’s share option schemes can be found in note 22.
Details of the Company’s subsidiaries are provided below. All subsidiaries are included in the consolidation and the Directors believe that 
the fair value of all subsidiaries exceeds their carrying values. 
Name Country of Incorporation Nature of business
Proportion of Ordinary 
shares held
Circassia Limited UK Pharmaceutical research 100%
Circassia Pharma Limited UK Pharmaceutical research 100%
Circassia Pharmaceuticals Inc USA Pharmaceutical research 100%
 
14. Investment in joint venture 
 
2014  
£’000
2013  
£’000
At 1 January 195 167
Share of (loss)/profit (82) 46
Foreign exchange loss on consolidation (10) (18)
At 31 December 103 195
The joint venture listed below has share capital consisting solely of Ordinary shares, which are held directly by the Group.
Nature of investment in joint venture 2014 and 2013
Name of entity
Place of business/ 
country of Incorporation % of ownership interest Nature of the relationship Measurement method
Adiga Life Sciences Canada 50 Note 1 Equity
Note 1 Adiga Life Sciences (“Adiga”) is a joint venture with McMaster University in Canada for early epitope and mechanistic clinical 
studies. Adiga is a private company and there is no quoted market price available for its shares. There are no contingent liabilities or 
commitments relating to the Group’s interest in the joint venture.
Summarised financial information for joint venture
Set out below is the summarised financial information for Adiga which is accounted for using the equity method.
 
Summarised statement of financial position at 31 December
2014 
£’000 
2013 
£’000 
Current assets
 Trade and other receivables 116 436
 Cash 695 644
 811 1,080
Current liabilities
 Trade payables (518) (600)
 Other payables (88) (91)
 (606) (691)
Net assets  205 389
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 95 Notes to the financial statements continued
Summarised statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December
2014 
£’000 
2013 
£’000 
Revenue 4,893 4,257
Research & development costs (5,830) (5,245)
Administration expense (28) (36)
Interest income 2 4
Interest expense (2) (2)
Loss from continuing operations (965) (1,022)
Income tax income 801 1,114
Post tax (loss)/profit from continuing operations (164) 92
Other comprehensive expense (20) (37)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income (184) 55
 
The information above reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the joint venture adjusted for differences in accounting 
policies between the Group and the joint venture (and not Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc’s share of those amounts).
Reconciliation of summarised financial information
Reconciliation of the summarised financial information presented to the carrying amount of the Company’s interest in the joint venture.
Summarised financial information
2014 
£’000 
2013 
£’000 
Opening net assets 1 January 389 334
(Loss)/profit for the year (164) 92
Other comprehensive expense (20) (37)
Closing net assets 205 389
Interest in joint venture @ 50% 103 195
Carrying value 103 195
 
15. Other receivables
Group Company
 
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
Other receivables 700 717 64 90
Prepayments and accrued interest 1,949 498 1,530 449
Receivables from subsidiary undertakings – – 120,989 93,618
Total trade and other receivables 2,649 1,215 122,583 94,157
 
The fair value of other receivables are their current book values. 
Receivables from subsidiary undertakings are amounts provided by the Company to its subsidiaries in order to undertake studies.  
The receivable is unsecured, interest free and has no fixed date of repayment. Recoverability of the amount is dependent on the success 
of those studies.
The carrying amounts of the Group and Company other receivables, excluding prepayments and recoverable taxes, are denominated in 
the following currencies:
Group Company
 
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
UK pounds 1,552 1,205 122,494 94,148
United States dollar – 7 – 7
Canadian dollar 14 2 14 2
Other currencies – 1 – –
 1,566 1,215 122,508 94,157
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 96 16. Cash and cash equivalents and short-term bank deposits
Group Company
 
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
Short-term bank deposit, with original maturity:
More than 3 months 156,874 7,047 156,874 7,047
Total short-term bank deposits 156,874 7,047 156,874 7,047
Cash and cash equivalents:
Cash at bank and in hand 29,716 23,568 18,754 3,839
Total cash and cash equivalents 29,716 23,568 18,754 3,839
 
The Group and Company cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits are held with institutions with the following Fitch IBCA long-
term rating:
Group Company
 
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
AA – 51,446 12,641 40,593 –
A+ 35,000 – 35,000 –
A 92,114 7,858 92,005 770
A – 8,030 – 8,030 –
BBB – – 10,116 – 10,116
 186,590 30,615 175,628 10,886
 
The Group and Company cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits are held in the following currencies at 31 December:
Group Company
 
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
UK pounds 157,899 13,255 154,437 3,270
United States dollar 11,683 14,532 11,321 6,197
Canadian dollar 9,462 1,489 8,030 1,419
Euro 1,979 48 1,840 –
Swiss franc 5,567 1,291 – –
 186,590 30,615 175,628 10,886
 
17. Trade and other payables
Group Company
 
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
Trade payables 2,746 3,461 321 523
Social security and other taxes 199 104 – –
Other payables 40 19 – –
Accruals 6,781 2,391 332 –
Total trade and other payables 9,766 5,975 653 523
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 97 Notes to the financial statements continued
18. Financial liabilities 
Group Company
 
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
Convertible loan notes – 2,012 – 2,012
Financial liabilities – 2,012 – 2,012
 
The Group had in issue nil (2013: 1 15) convertible loan notes which accrued interest at the daily Libor rate and were convertible into  
fully paid Ordinary shares at the option of the holder at any time and were to be redeemed, if they had not previously been converted,  
on 31 March 2016. The loan notes were classified as current liabilities as the Group did not have an unconditional right to defer settlement 
for at least 12 months after the end of the reporting period. Borrowing costs were recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they 
were incurred.
As part of the capital reorganisation in 2014, the 115 loan notes and accrued interest were converted into 7 ,155 Ordinary shares (note 21). 
Included in current financial liabilities is accrued interest of £nil (2013: £0.3m).
 
19. Financial instruments
The Group’s financial instruments comprise cash and cash equivalents, derivatives, convertible loan notes, short-term bank deposits, 
other receivables and trade and other payables. Additional disclosures are set out in the accounting policies relating to risk management 
(note 2). 
The Group had the following financial instruments at 31 December each year:
  
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000 
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents 29,716 23,568
Short-term bank deposits 156,874 7,047
Other receivables 1,566 1,215
Loans and receivables 188,156 31,830
  
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000 
Liabilities
Trade and other payables – current 9,766 5,975
Financial liabilities – 2,012
Financial liabilities at amortised cost 9,766 7,987
 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 98 The Company had the following financial instruments at 31 December each year:
  
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000 
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents 18,754 3,839
Short-term bank deposits 156,874 7,047
Other receivables 1,519 539
Receivable from subsidiary undertaking 120,989 93,618
Loans and receivables 298,136 105,043
  
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000 
Liabilities
Trade and other payables – current 653 523
Financial liabilities - 2,012
Financial liabilities at amortised cost 653 2,535
 
Cash balances comprise floating rate instant access deposits earning interest at prevailing bank rates. Short-term deposits bear interest 
at fixed rates.
In accordance with IAS 39 ‘Financial instruments Recognition and Measurement’ the Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded 
derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet certain requirements set out in the standard. There were 
no such derivatives identified at 31 December 2014 or 31 December 2013.
Fair value 
The Directors consider that the fair values of the Group’s financial instruments do not differ significantly from their book values.  
 
20. Deferred taxation
The Group has no recognised deferred tax assets or liabilities at 31 December 2014 (2013: £nil). The Group has an unrecognised deferred 
tax asset in respect of:
 
2014 
£’000 
2013 
£’000 
Losses 15,323 11,652
Accelerated capital allowances 43 –
Other 1,337 1
Total unrecognised deferred tax asset 16,703 11,653
 
In light of the continuing losses, recovery of the deferred tax asset is not sufficiently certain, and therefore no asset has been recognised.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 99 Notes to the financial statements continued
21. Share capital 
Authorised, called up and fully paid
1
 
2014 
£’000 
2013 
£’000 
189,419,634 (2013: 80,548,375) Ordinary shares of 0.08p each 152 65
1
  All numbers of Ordinary shares in the 2013 column above were updated retrospectively to give effect to the capital reorganisation which occurred on  
18 March 2014
The change in the number of shares in 2013 is reconciled below:
2013 Share capital pre and  
post capital reorganisation
Post capital  
reorganisation  
Number
Capital
2
  
reorganisation  
Number
Pre capital  
reorganisation  
Number
Ordinary shares of 10p - - 129,489
A Preference shares of 10p - - 147,932
B Preference shares of 10p - - 366,967
Conversion and subdivision of 10p Ordinary shares 
into 0.08p Ordinary shares - 79,903,987 - 
Ordinary shares 80,548,375 79,903,987 644,388 
 
2
  See note 21 (a) and (d). The Preference A and B shares were converted into 10p Ordinary shares and all 10p Ordinary shares were subsequently subdivided into 
0.08p Ordinary shares
On 24 February 2014, a Director of the Company, exercised 4,000 EMI share options, which resulted in 4,000 Ordinary shares of 10p 
(equivalent to 500,000 Ordinary shares of 0.08p) being issued, with proceeds on exercise of £400.
Immediately prior to admission of the Company’s shares on the London Stock Exchange, the Company effected a capital reorganisation, 
which resulted in the following:
a) Conversion of Preference shares to Ordinary shares
There were 514,898 Preference shares all of which converted automatically into Ordinary shares at a conversion rate of one Ordinary 
share for each Preference share held.
b) Issue of liquidation Preference shares
Each holder of Preference shares was issued additional Ordinary shares (Liquidation Preference shares) by the Company. This was by 
way of capitalisation of reserves and resulted in the issue of 327 ,708 additional 10p Ordinary shares.
c) Conversion of loan notes
As part of the capital reorganisation, the 115 loan notes were converted into 7 ,155 Ordinary shares of 10p in the Company.
d) Initial Public Offering
On 18 March 2014, the Company subdivided each 10p Ordinary share held (983,250) into 125 Ordinary shares of 0.08p (122,906,250).  
In addition, 64,516,129 new Ordinary shares of 0.08p were issued, raising gross proceeds of £200 million.
On 20, 22, 24 and 27 March 2014, a number of employees exercised their EMI options, which resulted in 1,363,875 shares being issued, 
with exercise proceeds of £1,091.10.
On 11 April 2014, 633,380 Ordinary shares of 0.08p from the Over-Allotment Option were issued, raising gross proceeds of approximately  
£2 million.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 100 22. Share based payments
Share options
Options have been awarded under the Circassia PSP Share Option Scheme (“the PSP Scheme”), the Circassia EMI Share Option 
Scheme (“the EMI Scheme”) and the Circassia Unapproved Share Option Scheme (“the Unapproved Scheme”). 
The share options outstanding can be summarised as follows:
 
2014  
Number of  
Ordinary shares  
(‘000)
2013
(iv)
  
Number of  
Ordinary shares  
(‘000)
PSP Scheme 
(i)
1,969 –
EMI Scheme 
(ii)
535 2,399 
Unapproved Scheme 
(iii)
661 611
 3,165 3,010
 
The contractual life of all options is 10 years and the options cannot normally be exercised before the third anniversary of the date of grant. 
(i)   All employees of the Group are eligible for options over 0.08p Ordinary shares in the Company. Options granted under the PSP 
Scheme do not have a fixed exercise price and are subject to additional vesting performance conditions. The performance conditions 
state that 70% of an award shall vest subject to the Company Total Shareholder Return (TSR) ranking against the Comparator Index 
TSR and the remaining 30% of an award shall vest subject to the meeting of certain strategic Company objectives.
(ii)   Options granted under the EMI Scheme have a fixed exercise price based on the market price at the date of grant. 
(iii)  Options granted under the Unapproved Scheme also have a fixed exercise price based on the market price at the date of grant. 
(iv)   All numbers of Ordinary shares in the 2013 column above were updated retrospectively to give effect to the capital reorganisation 
which occurred on 18 March 2014.
The movement in share options outstanding is summarised in the following table: 
2014 2013
1
 
Number  
(‘000)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(£)
Number  
(‘000)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(£)
Outstanding at 1 January 3,010 0.23 2,949 0.0008
Granted 2,439 0.23 438 1.55
Expired – n/a – n/a
Forfeited (420) 1.05 – n/a 
Exercised (1,864) 0.0008 (377) 0.0008
Outstanding at 31 December 3,165 0.25 3,010 0.23
Exercisable at 31 December 631 0.0008 1,598 0.0008
 
1
  See note 21. The 2013 numbers were updated retrospectively to give effect to the capital reorganisation which occurred on 18 March 2014 
The options exercised in 2014 resulted in 1.9m shares (2013: 0.4m shares) being issued at a weighted average price of £0.0008 each 
(2013: £0.0008 each). The related weighted average share price at the time of exercise was £2.23 (2013: £0.0008) per share. 
Valuation models
The fair value of PSP share options granted during the period was determined using the Monte Carlo Simulation model or Black Scholes 
model dependent on the performance vesting conditions. All other options granted during the year and in previous years were valued 
using the Black Scholes valuation model. 
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the period determined using the Monte Carlo Simulation model at the grant 
date was £1.39 per option (2013: £nil). 
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the period determined using the Black Scholes valuation model at the grant 
date was £1.57 per option (2013: £2.16). 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 101 Notes to the financial statements continued
The following weighted average assumptions were used in the Black Scholes model in calculating the fair value of the options granted 
during the year: 
 2014 2013 
Share price £3.19 £2.88
Exercise price £0.23 £1.55
Expected volatility 50% 50%
Expected life 10 years 10 years
Expected dividends 0% 0%
Risk free interest rate 3% 3%
 
For the options using the Monte Carlo Simulation, a 50% probability was applied to the number of options likely to vest. Expected volatility 
is based on historical volatility for a period the same length as the expected option life ending on the date of grant. The risk free rate of 
return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the expected option life. Expected life was based on 
the contractual life of the options.
Restricted shares
The Company previously made awards of Ordinary shares to employees and Non-Executive Directors by entering into a form of 
Restricted share agreement with each participant, under which the participant subscribed for or purchased Ordinary shares in the 
Company at 10p per Ordinary share (converted into 0.08p shares post capital reorganisation). These shares are subject to certain 
restrictions on transfer and forfeiture, as set out in the Restricted share agreement. The restrictions lift on the earlier of a sale of the 
Company and the expiry of a vesting period of between two and three years (depending on the date of award of the Restricted shares).
There were 1.8m Ordinary shares of 0.08p (2013: 1.8m Ordinary shares of 0.08p) in issue at 31 December 2014 and 46,875 Ordinary 
shares were forfeited during the year (2013: nil).
Income statement
See note 4 for the total expense recognised in the income statement in respect of the above equity settled instruments granted to 
Directors and employees. 
 
23. Share premium
Group and Company
2014 
£’000 
2013 
£’000 
At 1 January 103,403 103,403
Conversion of loan notes into Ordinary shares 2,014 –
Issue of new shares 201,911 –
Expenses relating to share issue (9,390) –
At 31 December 297,938 103,403
 
24. Translation reserve
Group
2014 
£’000 
2013 
£’000 
At 1 January – –
Currency translation differences (6) –
At 31 December (6) –
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 102 25. Deficit on reserves
Share option reserve Accumulated losses
Group
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
At 1 January (deficit) 56 1 (73,479) (53,480)
Total comprehensive expense – – (35,118) (19,999)
Capitalised reserves – bonus shares for Preference shares – – (33) –
Employee share option scheme 1,249 55 – –
At 31 December (deficit) 1,305 56 (108,630) (73,479)
Share option reserve Retained earnings
Company
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
At 1 January 56 1 764 707
Total comprehensive income – – 467 57
Capitalised reserves – bonus shares for Preference shares – – (33) –
Employee share option scheme 1,249 55 – –
At 31 December 1,305 56 1,198 764
 
26. Cash used in operations 
Reconciliation of (loss)/profit before tax to net cash used in operations
Group Company
 
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014  
£’000
2013 
£’000
Continuing operations 
(Loss)/profit before tax (43,989) (23,894) 467 57
Adjustment for:
1
Interest income (1,746) (606) (1,709) (158)
Interest expense 18 21 9 10
Impairment – 122 – –
Depreciation 24 – – –
Share of joint venture loss/(profit) 82 (46) – –
Fair value loss on derivative – (393) – (393)
Share based payment charge 1,249 55 – –
Exchange movements (6) – – –
Foreign exchange on non-operating cash flows (499) 8 (670) 430
Changes in working capital:
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 65 (492) (26,922) (6,668)
Increase in trade and other payables 3,792 3,057 130 523
Net cash used in operations (41,010) (22,168) (28,695) (6,199)
 
1
 The conversion of the loan notes is a non-cash item
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 103 Notes to the financial statements continued
27. Contingent liabilities 
There were no contingent liabilities at 31 December 2014 or at 31 December 2013.
28. Operating lease commitments
The total of future minimum lease payments payable under the entity’s non-cancellable operating lease for each of the following periods is 
as follows:
 
2014 
£’000 
2013 
£’000 
Due within one year 282 17
Due between one and five years 329 –
Due after five years – –
 
The Company operates out of two leased buildings. The operating lease commitment above relates to the lease of the Oxford premises 
John Eccles House. The second lease currently held does not constitute a commitment due to the existence of an annual break clause.
29. Capital commitments
The Group had no capital commitments as at 31 December 2014 (2013: £nil).
30. Related party transactions 
Group
There is no ultimate controlling party of the Group as ownership is split between the Company’s Shareholders. The most significant 
Shareholders as at 31 December 2014 are as follows: Invesco Asset Management (35.30% of total voting rights); Imperial Innovations 
Businesses LLP (13.99% of total voting rights); Oppenheimer Funds Inc (9.23% of total voting rights), Odey Asset Management (7 .96% of 
total voting rights) and Lansdowne Partners Limited (6.10% of total voting rights).
Transactions with related parties during the year and balances with related parties at 31 December are as follows:
Related party
2014 
Purchases 
£’000
2013 
Purchases 
£’000
2014  
Payables 
£’000
2013 
Payables 
£’000
Adiga Life Sciences (Joint venture) 4,920 4,202 – 113
Key management personnel – 8 – –
Imperial Innovations Businesses LLP 
1,2
38 27 – 1,487
Steven Harris 
2
– – – 262
Charles Swingland 
2
– – – 262
 
1
 ‘Purchases’ includes compensation paid or payable in respect of services provided by Russ Cummings as Non-Executive Director of the Company
2
 ‘Payables’ represents the amounts due on the convertible loan notes including accrued interest to 31 December 2013 (see note 18)
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 104 Disclosure of compensation provided to Directors is given in the Annual report on remuneration and in note 4 for key management. 
Included within key management personnel is Chief Commercial Officer (start date 15 September 2014) Linda Szyper. Linda is the spouse 
of Paul Edick, a Non-Executive Director of the Company. The compensation paid or payable to Linda is shown below: 
 
Key management compensation
2014  
£’000
2013  
£’000
Linda Szyper:
Short-term employee benefits (including bonus) 147 –
Post-employment benefits 11 –
Share based payments 8 –
Total 166 –
 
Company
The following transactions with subsidiaries occurred in the year:
  Circassia Limited
Related party
2014  
£’000
2013  
£’000
Rendering of services to Circassia Limited 
1
1,622 (41)
Settlement of liabilities on behalf of the Company (2,955) (16)
Net transfer of funds to Circassia Limited 28,704 6,202
 27,371 6,145
 
1
  Remuneration costs (excluding share options charges) relating to Steven Harris and Julien Cotta in respect of services rendered to Circassia Limited
 
Balances with subsidiary companies
2014  
£’000
2013  
£’000
Payable:
Circassia Limited 120,989 93,618
 
The amount due is unsecured, interest free and has no fixed date of repayment.
Employee benefit trust
During the year the Company set up an Employee benefit trust for the purposes of buying and selling shares on the employees’ behalf.  
A total of £5,100 of funding was paid into the Trust by the Company during the year ended 31 December 2014 (2013: £nil). This balance 
has been included in the Company financial statements on the grounds that the Trust is controlled by the Company.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 105 Efficacy
The ability of an intervention or drug to produce a desired effect
Environmental exposure chamber (EEC)
Controlled indoor environment into which controlled amounts of 
substance can be released
Epitope
The part of an antigen that is recognised by the immune system, 
specifically by antibodies, B-cells, or T-cells
Fill finish
Filling and closure of the primary drug container and conduct of 
post-filling processes, e.g. sealing and inspection, resulting in 
a product that is suitable for commercial or investigational use 
following appropriate labelling and packaging
House dust mite (HDM)
A small translucent organism belonging to the arachnid class 
commonly found in mattresses or pillows of beds, sofas and carpets
Immune cells
Cells relating to the immune system
Immunoglobulin
Antibody
Immunoglobulin E (IgE)
A class of antibody specifically involved in triggering the early phase 
of allergic reactions
Inflammatory mediators
Soluble, diffusible molecules that act locally at the site of tissue 
damage and infection, and at more distant sites
Japanese cedar
An evergreen tree also known as Cryptomeria, a monotypic genus 
of conifer in the cypress family Cupressaceae
Lyophilisation
A dehydration process typically used to preserve a perishable 
material or make the material more convenient for transport
Mast cells
A resident cell of several types of tissues and contains many 
granules rich in histamine and heparin. It binds IgE and 
degranulates on exposure to allergen to trigger allergic reactions
Peptides
Molecules that are comprised of a series of amino acids
Perennial Rye
Lolium perenne, a grass from the family Poaceae native to Europe, 
Asia and northern Africa and used worldwide in agriculture
Allergen
A substance causing an allergic reaction or allergy
Allergic rhinitis/allergic rhinoconjunctivitis
An allergic inflammation of the eyes, nasopharynx and nasal airways
Allergist
A physician specialising in the diagnosis and treatment of allergies
Allergy
An inappropriate immune response by the body to an allergen i.e. 
a substance (for example a particular food, pollen, animal or plant 
protein) to which the body has become hypersensitive
Alternaria
A genus of ascomycete fungi, otherwise known as a type of mould
Antibody
A large protein produced by B-cells that is used by the immune 
system to identify and neutralise foreign objects such as bacteria 
and viruses
Antigen
The part of the allergen to which antibodies bind
Asthma
A common chronic inflammatory disease of the airways 
characterised by variable and recurring symptoms, reversible airflow 
obstruction and bronchospasm (which is a sudden constriction of 
the muscles in the walls of the bronchioles – part of the lungs)
B-cells
Part of a group of white blood cells (lymphocytes) which forms part 
of the immune system. The principal functions of B-cells are to 
make antibodies against antigens
Bermuda grass
Bermuda grass (cynodon dactylon), a grass native to north and 
east Africa, Asia, Australia and southern Europe
Birch
A broad-leaved deciduous hardwood tree of the genus Betula
Cat dander
A material shed from the body of a cat comprised of skin cells
Double-blind
Neither the participants nor the researchers know which 
participants receive the placebo or the study drug
Eczema
A form of chronic inflammation of the skin
Glossary
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 106 Randomised
The process of allocating subjects to active drug or placebo in a 
clinical study
Rhinoconjunctivitis
Irritation and inflammation of the mucous membrane inside the 
nose and eyes
Safety profile
The known information about how safe a medicine is
Seasonal allergy
An allergy where symptoms are only experienced at certain times 
of the year
Short ragweed
Ambrosia artemisiifolia, a type of flowering plant common in  
North America
Synthetic peptide immuno-regulatory epitopes (SPIREs)
Short amino acid sequences that contain the T-cell epitope, and 
intended to elicit a T-reg response to an allergen identified using the 
Company’s ToleroMune
®
 technology
T-cell epitope
Epitope that is recognised by a T-cell
TH2 response
The defensive response of the immune system response to an 
allergen, triggered by TH2 cells
T-Helper cells class 2 (TH2 cells)
A sub-group of lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell)
Total rhinoconjunctivitis symptom score (TRSS)
Scoring system used to track the severity of symptoms of 
rhinoconjunctivitis
T-regulatory cells (T-regs)
A component of the immune system that suppresses immune 
responses of other cells in the immune system
T-regulatory response
Reaction of T-regs which is to control immune responses
Whole allergen immunotherapy
A process of administering allergenic extracts to allergic subjects to 
decrease the degree of hypersensitivity and symptoms by reducing 
immunologic responses to allergens
Phase II
In a phase II study, a new product candidate is studied in trials in a 
relatively homogenous population of subjects who have the relevant 
allergy. These studies are undertaken to identify possible adverse 
effects and safety risks, and to explore the preliminary or potential 
efficacy of the product candidate, as well as dosage tolerance and 
the optimal effective dose
Phase IIb
Phase II studies are sometimes further divided into two phases: 
phase IIa trials are designed to assess dosage (how much 
product candidate subjects should be given); and phase IIb trials 
are specifically designed to study efficacy (how well the product 
candidate works at a prescribed dose). Often phase II trials are 
designed as randomised clinical studies, where some subjects 
receive the product candidate and others receive a placebo/
standard treatment. Randomised phase II trials typically have fewer 
subjects than randomised phase III trials
Phase III
When phase II trials demonstrate that a specific dosage range of 
the product candidate is likely to be effective and has an acceptable 
safety profile, confirmatory phase III trials are undertaken. These 
studies are intended to provide an adequate basis for establishing 
the benefit/risk ratio for a subsequent application for marketing 
approval. Therefore, a sufficiently high number of subjects must be 
enrolled and exposed to the product candidate for a duration which 
will provide adequate efficacy and safety data for the envisaged 
clinical use. The studies must be controlled, i.e. compare the 
product candidate to placebo and/or to active treatment depending 
on the medical condition and the product candidate under 
investigation. Confirmatory phase III trials on specific immunotherapy 
for the treatment of allergic diseases should be performed using a 
randomised placebo-controlled double-blind design
Placebo
A sham or simulated medical treatment or procedure
Placebo controlled
A way of testing a medical therapy in which, in addition to a group 
of subjects that receives the treatment to be evaluated, a separate 
control group receives a placebo treatment which is specifically 
designed to have no real effect
Pollen
Fine to coarse powder containing the microgametophytes of seed 
plants, which produce the male gametes
Proof-of-concept
Early clinical drug development (typically in phase I and phase II) 
conducted to provide first evidence that a product candidate may 
be an effective treatment of a certain indication
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 107 Advisors and contact details
Financial calendar
― Annual General Meeting: 20 May 2015
― Interim results for the six months ending  
30 June 2015: Q3 2015 
Registrars
All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings and requests 
to receive corporate documents by email should, in the first 
instance, be directed to Equiniti. Shareview is Equiniti’s shareholder 
portal offering access to services and information to help manage 
your shareholdings and inform your important investment 
decisions.
Shareview Portfolio
Shareview Portfolio is an online portfolio management tool which 
enables you to view and manage all the shareholdings you have, 
where Equiniti is the Registrar, in one place. It is free to use and 
provides access to a wide range of market information and 
investment services. Please visit www.shareview.co.uk. 
This is not a recommendation to buy or sell shares. The price of 
shares can go down as well as up, and you are not guaranteed to 
get back the amount that you originally invested.
Addresses for correspondence
Head office
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc
Northbrook House
Robert Robinson Avenue
The Oxford Science Park
Oxford OX4 4GA
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1865 405560
Fax: +44 (0)7092 987560
General enquiries: info@circassia.co.uk
Investors: IR@circassia.co.uk
Website: www.circassia.co.uk 
Registered office 
The Magdalen Centre 
Robert Robinson Avenue 
Oxford Science Park 
Oxfordshire 
England 
OX4 4GA
Registrars
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
United Kingdom
Shareholder support: 0871 384 2030
Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute plus network 
extras. Lines are open 8:30am to 5:30pm Monday to Friday.
Advisors 
Independent Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
1 Embankment Place 
London 
WC2N 6RH
Bankers
HSBC Bank plc 
Apex Plaza 
Reading 
RG1 1AX
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014 108 Forward-looking statements
This Annual report and accounts contains certain projections and 
other forward-looking statements with respect to the financial 
condition, results of operations, businesses and prospects of 
Circassia. The use of terms such as “may”, “will”, “should”, “expect”, 
“anticipate”, “project”, “estimate”, “intend”, “continue”, “target” or 
“believe” and similar expressions (or the negatives thereof) are 
generally intended to identify forward-looking statements.  
These statements are based on current expectations and involve 
risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon 
circumstances that may or may not occur in the future. There are a 
number of factors that could cause actual results or developments 
to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-
looking statements. Any of the assumptions underlying these 
forward-looking statements could prove inaccurate or incorrect  
and therefore any results contemplated in the forward-looking 
statements may not actually be achieved. Nothing contained in this 
Annual report and accounts should be construed as a profit forecast 
or profit estimate. Investors or other recipients are cautioned not to 
place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements contained 
herein. Circassia undertakes no obligation to update or revise 
(publicly or otherwise) any forward-looking statement, whether as  
a result of new information, future events or other circumstances.
Designed and produced by thinkerdoer. 
thinkerdoer.co.uk
Printed by Pureprint Group using their pureprint
®
 environmental  
print technology, a guaranteed, low carbon, low waste, 
independently audited process that reduces the environmental 
impact of the printing process. Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral
®
 
company and is certified to Environmental Management System, 
ISO 14001 and registered to EMAS, the Eco Management and  
Audit Scheme.
www.pureprint.com Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc 
Northbrook House 
Robert Robinson Avenue 
The Oxford Science Park 
Oxford OX4 4GA 
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0)1865 405560
www.circassia.co.uk
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2014
