 Annual Report and financial statements 2014     1
Annual Report and  
financial statements 2014
The healthcare  
partnership Annual Report and financial statements 2014     3
Contents 
Highlights 4
Chairman’s letter 6
Patient story 11
Chief Executive Officer’s report 12
Kay’s story 19
Chief Financial Officer’s report 20
Board of Directors 24
Directors’ report 27
Report on corporate governance 30
Directors’ remuneration report 36
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 41
Independent auditors’ report 42
Consolidated income statement 44
Consolidated balance sheet 45
Consolidated statement of changes 
in equity 46
Consolidated statement of cash flows 47
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 48
Independent auditors’ report 94
Company balance sheet 97
Notes to the Company 
financial statements 98
Company information  110
Our credo 
Our purpose To build a great company dedicated to our patients. Our parameters We 
focus our efforts exclusively on what we are passionate about. What we can become best 
at. What drives our economic sustainability. Our principles We are, above all, the agents 
of our patients. We aim to exceed their expectations every time so that we earn their trust 
and loyalty. We strive to continuously improve the quality and the value of the care we give 
our patients. We empower our people to do their best. Our people are our greatest asset. 
We should select them attentively and invest in them passionately. As everyone matters, 
everyone who contributes should be a partner in all that we do. In return, we expect them 
to give their patients all that they can. We are unrelenting in the pursuit of excellence. We 
embrace innovation and learn from our mistakes. We measure everything we do and we 
share the data with all to judge. Pursuing our ambition to be the best healthcare provider  
is a never-ending process. ‘Good enough’ never is.
   
4     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     5
Highlights
Hospital highlights Operational highlights
•	 P atient	r ecommendation	rates	 wer e	at	99.4%	at	 our	 
independent hospitals and Nottingham NHS Treatment Centre.
•	 Ex cellent	clinical	 outcomes	acr oss	sites,	including	low	 
mortality rates, infection rates and strong patient feedback.
•	 C ommenced	inno vativ e	new	contract	 for	musculosk eletal	
(‘MSK’) conditions in Bedfordshire.
•	 Announced 	 withdrawal 	 fr om 	 the 	 Hinchingbr ook e 	 Health 	 Car e	 
NHS Trust (‘Hinchingbrooke’) franchise in January 2015.
•	 Planning	 work	commenced	 for	a	new-build	independent	 
hospital in Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Group revenue increased
to £111 million
(2013: £84.3 million)
+32%
Patient volumes across  
the Group are up 
to 45,173 day cases (2013: 40,284)  
and 269,316 	 outpatients	(2013:	2 48,913)
+8.7%
Completed Group restructure  
that gives staff and clinicians a
stake in Circle Holdings plc, and  
will offer employees share options
Patient satisfaction
99.4%
Patient numbers
314,489
Staff satisfaction
80%
25%
of patients would recommend our facilities 
at Circle-owned hospitals (2013:	99.4%)
total day case and outpatient 
appointments, excluding Hinchingbrooke 
Hospital.	 An	incr ease	 of	8.7%	 fr om	2013
figure based on staff likely or extremely 
likely to recommend Circle to family and 
friends as a place to work
Proposed plan for CircleBirmingham
(NHS figures based on 2013 NHS Staff Survey)
Staff likely to recommend  
Circle to friends and family 
CircleBath
CircleNottingham
CircleReading
All NHS
80%
80%
80%
59% 6     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     7
We achieved increased revenue, increased 
patient volumes and made positive EBITDAR
1
  
for the first time – and this is thanks to two 
trends that have defined healthcare in the 
UK in 2014.
The first trend is for higher patient 
expectations. More patients require 
treatment, and their demands for  
high-quality, compassionate and  
efficient care have steadily risen.
Outcomes across the Group point to 
real success here. Clinical performance 
and patient feedback from our two 
independent hospitals and our NHS 
treatment centre have been excellent,  
maintaining an average patient 
r ecommendation	rate	 of	99%	 y ear -on-
year – compared to the NHS average of 
94%,	and	independent	sector	av erage	 of	
98%	–	 while	 the	most	important	clinical	
outcomes, from infection rates to patient-
reported quality of life improvements, have 
shown consistently strong performance. 
The second trend is constrained finances, 
and the ever-greater efficiency challenge 
faced by providers and commissioners.
This was reflected across the Group in 
different ways. 
At Hinchingbrooke, reduced funding 
combined with unprecedented accident 
and emergency (‘A&E’) demands, meant 
that in early 2015, we took the difficult 
decision to withdraw from the franchise  
to operate the hospital. 
In contrast, our other operations were 
well-placed to offer support to an 
increasingly pressured system. 
Our independent hospitals in Bath and 
Reading have seen increased demand, 
including from NHS commissioners seeking 
to reduce elective waiting times, and both 
saw revenue increasing. At our Nottingham 
NHS Treatment Centre, we saw increasing 
patient volumes, and have sustained good 
margins even as commissioners reduced  
our payment tariffs. 
Chairman’s letter 
2014 saw significant developments in our business  
and the wider healthcare market, and we believe that  
our model of patient-centred and employee-led care  
is more relevant than ever. 
 
1 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and rent, excluding exceptional items.
2 The capped-budget model refers to a contract, whereby, the baseline revenue is fixed over the contract term rather than an activity-based payment plan.
Finally, in April, we started the first  
capped-budget
2
 contract for MSK  
services in England. The contract gives  
us responsibility for integrating MSK 
services in Bedfordshire, and it is one 
emerging model to help the NHS meet  
its future challenges of integration,  
savings and better care.  
These models are now crystallising  
around NHS England’s Five Year Forward  
View, and our track record offers significant 
opportunities for the Group. The blueprint 
sets out significant financial challenges for 
the NHS: we have proved our model offers 
financial efficiency. It sets out the need 
for clinical excellence: we have proved we 
can deliver excellent care. Finally, the Five 
Year Forward View sets out radical plans for 
new structures of care organisations, with 
a particular focus on integrating services. 
With our experience of running acute trusts 
and capped budgets, we feel well-placed 
to offer the NHS the innovative solutions it 
needs to meet its most pressing challenges. 
Equally, the increasing availability of 
medical data, the national policy push  
for transparency, and the rise of consumer 
health technology are unlikely to halt 
soon. They all suggest increased consumer 
activism and information-savvy patients. 
We know patients value our clinician-led 
hospitals and focus on hospitality in care, 
and feel confident about thriving in a 
health system with well-informed users.
During the year, our two major shareholder 
Board representatives, Tim Bunting and 
Tony Bromovsky, stood down from the 
Board. Their counsel and experience in  
the immediate years following our initial 
public offering was invaluable, and I thank 
them for their contribution to Circle. 
We were delighted to welcome John 
Hutton and Justin Jewitt to the board. 
Both bring very relevant healthcare and 
health economy experience to our strategy 
and governance. Their contributions have 
already added greatly to the Board’s 
conversations. I would like to thank all my 
Board colleagues for their commitment 
and support as we develop the business 
and navigate the complexities of the UK 
health economy.
We also ended 2014 by realising a long-
held ambition to strengthen our employee 
co-owned ethos. Project Reset simplified 
our structure and governance, with our 
staff	 owning	25%	 of	 Cir cle	Holdings	plc	
shares through the Circle Partnership 
Benefit Trust (the ‘CPBT’). The restructure 
aligns the interests of staff, investors 
and patients, and we are now the largest 
employee co-owned organisation on the 
AIM market.
These changes capped a significant  
year for Circle. I have no doubt that 
the need to meet both rising patient 
expectations and tough efficiency  
goals present significant opportunities  
next year and beyond. I remain equally 
confident that in this environment, our 
patient-centred and co-owned approach  
is a solid foundation for future growth.
Michael Kirkwood CMG
Chairman
18 March 2015
99.7%
2014  
CircleBath  
99.5%
2014  
CircleReading 
98.8%
2014  
CircleNottingham  
84%
Local sector  
average
80%
Local sector  
average
84%
Local sector  
average
Patient recommendation
Results of Friends and Family Test, completed 
by all Circle hospital patients. Competitor 
figures as reported on www.phin.org.uk
Michael  
Kirkwood
Chairman
Our independent hospitals 
in Bath and Reading have 
seen increased demand, 
including from NHS 
commissioners seeking 
to reduce elective waiting 
times, and both saw 
revenue increasing.
‘‘ 8     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     9
 
Patient, CircleNottingham 
I can honestly say that from the time I checked in to 
the hospital, to the time I was discharged, I could  
not possibly have had better care and treatment. ‘‘ 10     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     11
I went in to CircleBath for a knee 
arthroscopy two years ago. It was brilliant. 
The surgery was completely successful, 
and the hospital couldn’t have been a  
nicer place. 
Then just a few months ago, it turned out 
that I needed another, in my other knee. 
I had the discussion with my GP about 
where to go, and there was no question 
really. I wanted to go back to Circle. 
The hospital staff really made it easy for 
me. My husband has been ill too, so we 
don’t have the freedom we used to – but 
the staff were very considerate and made 
it as convenient as possible to find a time  
that worked for us. 
The pre-op was very thorough, and  
it was good to have such a clear chat  
with the team before going in to surgery. 
Everyone I met was just so nice – from  
the receptionist to the anaesthetist. It 
didn’t really feel like going to a hospital.
After the surgery, I had a problem 
with my blood pressure. That was a bit 
unnerving, but I knew I was in good hands. 
I apologised for being such a pain, but the 
staff were having none of it. They offered 
me a room to stay longer if I wanted to, 
and completely looked after me. 
Would I guess that staff were invested 
in their business? Well yes, that makes 
sense. 
And would I recommend the hospital  
to other people? Of course I would.  
It’s friendly, clean and hospitable.
Patient story
 
Patient, 
CircleBath 
Everyone I met was 
just so nice – from  
the receptionist to the 
anaesthetist. It didn’t 
really feel like going  
to a hospital.
‘‘ CircleBath opened in March 2010,  
and in 2014, it reached a milestone in 
its development. The hospital achieved 
EBITDA break-even in the second half, 
with	 total	patient	 v olumes	up	17 .5%	
year-on-year. Growth in NHS work from 
surrounding NHS organisations was strong, 
including working closely with two local 
trusts in order to reduce their waiting lists 
for elective surgery. The hospital is now  
an integral part of the local health system. 
Private patient volumes remained strong, 
with 	 12% 	 of 	 all 	 patients 	 opting 	 to 	 self-pay .	
In	 total,	r ev enue	 was	up	27%,	and	losses	
reduced from £5.3 million in 2013 to  
£0.8 million this year overall. 
In August, we announced the sale of the 
land and building to Medical Properties 
Trust (‘MPT’), which reduced the rent  
of the site by approximately £1 million  
per annum.
Clinical outcomes remain excellent. 
P atient	satisfaction	is	curr entl y	99.7%,	 
and one particular highlight was being  
placed in the top quintile for hip operations. 
Our average orthopaedic market share 
in the Bath area has grown significantly 
fr om	3 7%	last	 y ear ,	 to	47%	in	2014,	 which	
reflects our growing reputation for quality 
in the area. 
We expect to consolidate this performance 
in 2015, and see more gradual growth as 
the hospital achieves maturity. 
CircleBath
  
Annual Report and financial statements 2014     13 12     Circle Holdings plc
Chief Executive  
Officer’s report
Operating overview 
Circle’s sights have never been set low. 
2014 was an important year for us – and 
although we faced some challenges, 
overall, there was significant progress 
across the Group.
C ompar ed	 to	2013,	r ev enue	 was	up	3 2 % ,	
patient 	 v olumes 	 incr eased 	 8.7%, 	 and 	 losses	
befor e 	 ex ceptional 	 items 	 wer e 	 down 	 25%.	
Three operations have now reached 
positive EBITDA
*
, with CircleReading  
rapidly increasing revenue and making 
good progress in cost-saving initiatives.   
This success is based first, on our ability 
to offer patients excellent care: clinical 
outcomes and patient feedback are 
consistently strong across the Group. 
Second, it is based on our ability to run 
efficient, cost-effective facilities in an 
environment of constrained finances.  
Our decision to withdraw from the 
franchise at Hinchingbrooke showed the 
other side of this trend – where financial 
pressure within the NHS system, combined 
with the particular circumstances of the  
contract and surrounding health economy, 
to result in the difficult decision to withdraw.
Organisations in the growth stage of their  
development expect to face such moments.  
Our fundamental task remains to maintain 
our excellent clinical performance and 
move the underlying operations of the 
business to financial sustainability. Overall, 
the year’s results represent strong progress 
towards that goal – and our ambitions 
remain equally high. 
Steve Melton 
Chief Executive Officer
After a strong 2014, I am 
optimistic for 2015. We aim 
for all current operating 
assets to be EBITDA positive 
by the end of 2015.
‘‘
 
Hospital services
Patient satisfaction
99.7%
Revenue growth
+27%
Average orthopaedic market 
share in the Bath area
2014 47%
2013 37%
CircleBath
© Foster + Partners
1 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation,  
and amortisation. Annual Report and financial statements 2014     15 14     Circle Holdings plc
The Nottingham NHS Treatment Centre 
had a successful full first year in its new 
contract, which seeks to integrate care 
with surrounding providers. The new 
contract rebased prices and removed 
the guaranteed volumes provided in the 
previous contract; however, patient volumes 
increased – indicating substantial success in 
attracting patients with freedom to choose 
their treatment elsewhere. EBITDA was  
in line with expectations, at £2.5 million 
pre-exceptional items. 
At the start of 2014, CircleNottingham 
opened its new inpatient unit, meaning 
that we can now provide patients with a 
wider range of more complex procedures. 
Since its opening, we have seen a steady 
increase in inpatient volumes and positive 
patient reviews. This was followed by some  
innovative approaches to meeting the needs 
of the surrounding community, including 
the opening of an outreach clinic and 
the extension of our orthopaedic and 
ophthalmology services. 
As in Reading, national staffing trends  
have increased our cost base. Recruitment 
and reducing these costs represents an area 
to focus on in 2015.  
Across the treatment centre, clinical 
outcomes remained excellent: patient 
feedback	r emained	abo v e	98%	acr oss	 
the year. 
CircleNottingham
CircleReading had its second full year  
of operation. The hospital has focused on 
learning from the experience of CircleBath, 
in particular by growing relationships with  
nearby NHS trusts and increasing its 
catchment area.
This contributed to revenue growth 
of	44%	 y ear -on-y ear .	 As	noted	in	 our	
half-year statement, revenue growth 
outpaced recruitment of permanent staff 
– compounded by national shortages in 
key clinical roles – resulting in higher than 
expected interim staffing costs. Losses 
reduced from £5.5 million in 2013, to  
£4.6 million in 2014. Total patient volumes 
wer e	up	10%,	 with	a	38%	incr ease	in	 day	
cases and inpatients. Our presence in the 
local orthopaedic market is continuing 
to	expand,	gr owing	b y	8%	 to	an	av erage	
mark et	shar e	 of	28%	in	2014.
Clinical outcomes also remain excellent, 
with	99.7%	 of	patients	r ecommending	
the hospital to friends or family. After 
stabilising solid revenue, the focus for  
2015 is on improving margins. 
CircleReading
 
EBITDA
£2.5m
Patient satisfaction
98.8%
Year-on-year increase of 
orthopaedic operations
2014 24%
2013 10%
Revenue growth
+44%
Patient satisfaction
99.5%
Average orthopaedic market 
share in the Reading area
2014 28%
2013 20%
CircleReading CircleNottingham Chief Executive Officer’ s report
Continued
Annual Report and financial statements 2014     17 16     Circle Holdings plc
The Bedfordshire MSK contract started 
in April 2014. MSK services represent a 
significant proportion of commissioners’ 
budgets, and most projections forecast 
an increase in demand as the population 
ages. However, services are generally unco-
ordinated and inefficient, and most patients 
do not experience a seamless service. 
The Bedfordshire contract aims to  
change the operation of this crucial  
clinical area, by creating a ‘prime provider’ 
which takes responsibility for co-ordinating 
and managing the rest of the system: 
meaning that the patient journey is  
more co-ordinated, outcomes are improved, 
and commissioners save money. 
Achievements in the first nine months 
include	capturing	ar ound	90%	 of	all	local	
MSK patients through our triage hub. This 
means the vast majority of patients now 
experience a dedicated service, seeing  
the right clinician, first time round – which 
is both better for the patient and more 
cost -effectiv e.	 Ar ound	40%	 of	patients	
are coming through the electronic referral 
system, 	 compar ed 	 to 	 about 	 5% 	 pr eviousl y	
– enabling referrals to be processed more 
efficiently, thereby, improving patient 
experience. 	 Furthermor e, 	 9 7% 	 of 	 patients	
using our hub are offered an independent 
patient advisor, offering genuine choice  
to patients over their care. 
Any new system faces challenges, and  
in Bedford, this has included convincing  
all local partners to use our triage hub.  
This has been almost universally successful, 
with just one of 21 providers, Bedford 
Hospital NHS Trust, choosing to circumvent 
the system. We are in discussions with the 
clinical commissioning group (‘CCG’) on 
handling this disruption of patient care, 
and expect to update on this further in  
our half-year results interim statement. 
Bedfordshire MSK
Hinchingbrooke won several awards for its 
quality of care in 2014, including the CHKS 
‘best quality of care in England’ award, and 
the Health Investor award for ‘best public-
private partnership.’ 
Cumulative quality improvement plans  
made	savings	 of	appr o ximatel y	5%	 y ear - 
on-year since the start of the contract. 
Clinical outcomes were excellent across 
2014, including running one of the best-
performing A&Es in the country, meeting  
all major waiting time targets, low and 
declining mortality rates, and patient 
feedback in the top quartile of similar 
hospitals in the NHS. Efficiency was also 
improved. We believe that the Care Quality 
Commission (‘CQC’) inspection report on 
Hinchingbrooke, published in January 2015, 
did not reflect these achievements, and  
is not an accurate representation of the 
hospital. We note that a subsequent  
report by MPs on the Public Accounts 
Committee recommended that the  
CQC review its approach.
In March 2014, Circle made a franchise 
support payment of £1.3 million, following 
a dispute with commissioners over payments  
under the 2013/14 contract. Like most acute  
hospitals, from late summer onwards, 
Hinchingbrooke saw unprecedented A&E 
attendances	–	at	 times	up	 to	30%	higher ,	
year-on-year – and not enough care places 
for healthy patients who await discharge. 
At the same time, funding was cut in the 
2014/15 financial year. 
With these pressures on the system, to 
maintain the standards patients deserve 
required significant further investment, 
on top of the £5 million and considerable 
resources Circle has invested in the 
hospital to date.
Solving the problems facing 
Hinchingbrooke could only be achieved  
through joined-up reform in Cambridgeshire 
across hospitals, GPs and community 
services – but these reforms are too far 
into the future. We reluctantly concluded 
that with little flexibility in the contract, 
Circle’s involvement in Hinchingbrooke 
was unsustainable. We announced our 
intention to withdraw from the franchise 
in January 2015, and the contract formally 
ceases at the end of March. 
Hinchingbrooke Health Care NHS Trust
 
After a strong 2014, I am optimistic for 
2015. We aim for all current operating 
assets to be EBITDA positive by the end  
of 2015. There are notable opportunities  
in both our independent and NHS work. 
Hospital services
We have a long-term lease on well-
located land in Birmingham, and we are 
now moving into detailed planning and 
modelling for its future development.  
Birmingham is a more diverse market than 
Bath or Reading. It is a large healthcare 
economy, with over two million people 
living within a 30-minute drive of our site, 
and an ageing infrastructure of private 
health providers in the area. There are a 
number of NHS providers in the region, 
ranging from large teaching hospital  
trusts to small specialist providers, 
representing a wider range of NHS 
organisations with which to partner.  
We will refine the model used in our first 
two hub hospitals. In particular, we expect 
the build to be quicker and more cost-
effective, and combined with a phased 
recruitment and commissioning process, it 
is expected to reach operational maturity 
at a quicker pace than Bath and Reading.
We are seeing significant interest from UK 
and international investors for high-quality 
healthcare facilities, and we will be looking 
to progress with plans for the Birmingham 
hospital this year. 
We have previously noted our intention  
to pursue further new-build hospitals. We 
have assessed the market in Manchester 
and believe that it is saturated. The Group 
has decided that in this environment, 
pursuing a new independent hospital in 
Manchester is not currently viable and  
we are considering options for the land  
we own. 
Bath and Reading both have plans for 
organic growth in specialties where the 
surrounding area is under-served, with 
scope for new clinical units and services. 
Nottingham also expects some organic 
additions to its services. 
We were pleased to be accepted in 
October to be a member of the NHS 
Supply Chain’s new support framework. 
This places us on a centrally-approved 
list of permitted bidders for contingency 
diagnostics and elective work at our 
existing hospitals. 
Other services
We expect further capped-budget 
contracts to come to market across 2015. 
This will include more MSK contracts, but 
is also likely to involve other service lines 
and clinical pathways. As one of the few 
current providers of this type of contract, 
we are well-placed to help the NHS evolve 
the format.
In March 2015, the ‘vanguard’ sites 
adopting new models of care proposed 
in Simon Stevens’ Five Year Forward View 
were announced. We expect greater clarity 
to emerge in the second half of the year on 
how these sites intend to reform services, 
regardless of the outcome of the general 
election in May. 
The election does pose some political  
risk, given no party is an active advocate  
of the role of the independent sector in the 
NHS; however, the role of NHS England 
and local health leaders in leading health  
policy insulates against this risk, and we 
fully intend to engage in the ideas and 
policy of the Five Year Forward View as it  
is clarified over the coming year. 
As one of the few non-NHS organisations 
with experience of both running acute 
trusts and capped-budget services, we feel 
confident about our role as a partner to 
the NHS in this potentially exciting set  
of reforms. 
Finally, we are reviewing options for 
acquisitions and consultancy work, both 
in the UK and abroad. We are continuing 
our close relationship with CITIC, one of 
China’s biggest conglomerates, which we 
announced in December 2013. We will 
update on these plans as required later  
in the year. 
Steve Melton
Chief Executive Officer
18 March 2015
Other services Operating outlook  18     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     19
Amanda 
Philips 
General Manager  
for Bedfordshire MSK
To me it feels like it’s  
in Circle’s DNA to do  
what it takes if it means  
we serve our patients.
‘‘
 
I am the Lead Extended Scope 
Physiotherapist at the Enhanced 
Services Centre in Bedford. We are a 
musculoskeletal clinic which is run by  
a partnership of Horizon Health Choices 
and Circle. This is part of the MSK tender 
won by Circle to run MSK services for 
Bedfordshire. We see patients referred by 
GPs who may need imaging, injections or 
onward referral to consultants. We have 
a mixture of different clinicians working 
here, including physiotherapists, GPs with 
a particular interest in musculoskeletal 
conditions, and consultants.
I feel that working with Circle gives you  
an excellent support network at all levels. 
We have daily meetings where all aspects 
of the clinics are looked at. Any issues can 
be brought to the meeting, and everyone 
can contribute to finding a resolution.
This way of working gives you a say in  
how things are run. You are able to offer 
any ideas in an open atmosphere, and they 
will be listened to. It makes you feel part  
of a team and that you can really make  
a difference to the patient experience.
And in our service, the needs of the patient 
are paramount. Problem solving is always 
directed to improve the patient experience, 
and feedback from patients is actively 
sought at all stages of the patient process. 
Having a clinician-led company ensures 
that the patient needs are priority, as the 
clinicians have experience of working in 
various fields, and so understand the issues 
that are important to patients. These then  
drive the way services are delivered. We  
try to make the service as convenient as 
possible for the patient, for example, by 
decreasing wait times by having a number  
of providers and offering clinics for 
patients to attend as close to their  
homes as possible.
As an example of just one thing we’ve 
changed thanks to this way of working,  
in the space of just three months, I have 
been able to change the system we used 
for giving out TENS machines – a type  
of pain relief machine – in the pain service. 
Previously, there was an issue with supply 
due to the type of contract, which meant 
that referrals had virtually stopped to 
this service. But I was allowed to change 
supplier and set up a more efficient system 
for providing these machines that both 
patients and staff are happy with. This  
has allowed patients to be referred to  
this service again, and allowed the  
patients access to a non-chemical form 
of pain relief which can be helpful for this 
patient group.
Circle is challenging in a positive way. 
Starting a role that’s new to me, and  
also to the company, was a challenge –  
but with support from Circle colleagues,  
for example, I’ve been able to define my 
role, and learn the skills to do the job. 
You’re constantly learning, and Circle  
has the inclusive and supportive culture  
to make that happen.
Kay’s story 
Kay Hoare is an extended scope physiotherapist, working in our Bedfordshire 
musculoskeletal team.
Patient recommendations
100%
Patients coming through the 
electronic referral system
40%
Bedford MSK
compar ed	 to	5%	befor e	 Cir cle	 
commenced the MSK contract Total procedures continue to grow, with total day case and inpatient volumes increasing  
b y	12%,	as	mor e	patients	ar e	activ el y	choosing	 to	use	 Cir cle	 facilities	 for	 our	high-quality	
car e. 	 R eading 	 saw 	 the 	 most 	 significant 	 incr ease 	 in 	 day 	 case 	 v olumes, 	 with 	 a 	 38% 	 gr owth 	 on	
prior year. Growth was also seen in Nottingham and Bath outpatient procedures, increasing 
b y	7%	and	17%,	r espectiv el y .	 The	independent	h o s p i t a l s 	 b o t h 	 d e l i v e r e d 	 s i g n i fi c a n t 	 g r o w t h	 
in average revenue per case, as the procedure mix trends towards a higher acuity: Bath 
incr eased	b y	14%	and	R eading	saw	an	incr ease	 of	18%.	
Group results
Revenue under management of £221 million and Group revenue of £111 million, mark 
a substantial uplift on the previous year’s results. The Group ends the year with a cash 
position of £24.5 million.
  Year to Year to 
  31 December 31 December  
  2014 2013 
  £’000 £’000
Revenue under management
*
  221,048 	 192,7 49
Group revenue  110,983 84,252
EBITDAR, excluding exceptional items   1,152 (143)
EBITDA, excluding exceptional items   (10,427) (13,812)
Total operating loss before exceptional items   (13,329) (17,726)
Exceptional items   (5,341) 3,860
Loss for the financial year  (20,155) (15,230)
Underlying total loss for the financial year
**
  (14,812) 	 (19,090)
Net assets   34,374 27,867
The Group has seen continued growth in its core operations, with revenue of £111 million 
marking	a	 y ear -on-y ear	incr ease	 of	3 2%.	 This	r ev enue	gr owth	 was	 down	 to	gr owth	at	 
both Bath and Reading hospitals, as well as the commencement of the Bedfordshire  
MSK contract. 
The Group achieved positive EBITDAR for the first time: an improvement from a loss of 
£0. 1 million in 2013, to a positive EBITDAR of £1.2 million in 2014. Operating loss before 
exceptional items improved significantly by £4.4 million on prior year. This is principally 
attributable to the continual EBITDA improvements in CircleBath and CircleReading. 
Cir cleBath	incr eased	r ev enue	b y	27%	 fr om	2013	lev els,	and	saw	an	incr ease	 of	84%	 
in EBITDA in the year. For the first time, CircleBath recorded a positive EBITDA for the 
second half of 2014. CircleReading continues to grow towards sustainability, and achieved 
significant	r ev enue	gr owth	 of	44%,	 with	r ev enue	r eaching	£21	million,	and	also	closed	 
the	 y ear	 with	an	impr o v ement	in	EBITD A	loss	 of	£0.9	million.	
This is our first full year of the new Payment by Results contract at Nottingham. The 
treatment centre is delivering a greater number of procedures to an increasing volume  
of 	 patients 	 (7% 	 incr ease 	 on 	 prior 	 y ear), 	 assisted 	 b y 	 the 	 deliv ery 	 of 	 new 	 inpatient 	 services.	 
The new Nottingham contract works under the NHS Choose and Book system. It is 
gratifying to see that now patients are afforded greater choice, they nevertheless choose 
to return to the CircleNottingham facility; a testament to our high quality of care. EBITDA 
achieved was in line with expectations at £2.5 million, with opportunities to improve 
margins as complexity of work increases. 
A milestone was achieved in 2014 as EBITDAR, excluding exceptional items, is positive for 
the first time. The Group’s total loss for the year, excluding exceptional items (‘underlying 
total loss’), has significantly improved by £4.3 million. 
The Group is making continued progress with like-for-like year-on-year growth of the 
operating sites, while improving the operational efficiency of the business.  
Revenue growth is set to continue in 2015, largely from organic growth at each site.  
The Group continues to explore opportunities to expand independent hospital operations, 
and has commenced planning application for CircleBirmingham. The cost of submitting 
detailed design plans for Birmingham is expected to be around £0.5 million. Our proposed 
plan would be to fund the construction of Birmingham with a third party. The Group has 
strong relationships with a number of investors interested in the development. In addition, 
the Group continues to explore development opportunities to support NHS organisations, 
which is likely to become clearer post-general election.
Patient procedures 
Patient numbers across the Group have also seen a positive increase. As the Stratford Clinic 
was closed at the beginning of 2014, the Stratford Clinic figures have been removed from 
2013 patient procedures to compare like-for-like. 
 Year to Year to 
 31 December 31 December   
 2014 2013 Change
Day case and inpatients 45,173 	 40,284	 12. 1%
Outpatients 269,316 	 2 48,913	 8.2%
Total procedures 314,489 289,197 8.7% 
20     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     21
Chief Financial  
Officer’s report 
Financial review
2014 saw improvements in revenue, gross profit and a 
reduction in overhead administrative costs, culminating in  
a	25%	r eduction	in	 operating	loss	pr e-ex ceptional	items.		
 
Closing cash balance as  
at year-end is
£24.5m
EBITDA losses before 
exceptional items were down
↓
25%
to £10.4 million (2013: loss of £13.8 million)  
including £7.8 million of central costs
Paolo Pieri 
Chief Financial Officer
The Group has seen 
continued growth in its  
core operations, with 
revenue of £111 million 
marking a year-on-year 
incr ease	 of	3 2%.	
‘‘
(2013: £12.4 million) while net cash outflow from 
operating activities has decreased to £8.4 million 
(2013: 22.1 million)
* Includes revenue generated at Hinchingbrooke which is managed by the Group, but not included in the Group’s statutory consolidated revenue.
** Underlying total loss for the year is the total loss for the financial year, excluding exceptional items. Annual Report and financial statements 2014     23
We began 2014 by working closely with 
Bedfordshire CCG and the local supply 
chain to mobilise our MSK service, which 
started in April. Our contracts with all 
providers require patients to use the 
Circle MSK services. We are currently 
in discussions with the CCG regarding 
payments for those who circumvented  
the Circle triage system. In addition,  
the contract provides for a number  
of one-off payments related to the 
transition of waiting lists at the start  
of the contract. We expect to provide  
a more comprehensive review of our  
MSK business in the half-year interim 
results, after a full year’s performance  
of the service.
The	£4.9	million	incr ease	in	 total	loss	 for	
the year to £20.2 million in 2014 is due 
to the inclusion of one-off items, most 
of which are non-cash items. Exceptional 
charges of £5.3 million were expensed 
in 2014. In 2013, an exceptional gain of 
£3.9 	 million 	 was 	 r ecognised, 	 lar gel y 	 due 	 to	
the deconsolidation of Health Properties 
Edinburgh. To enable a more like-for-like 
basis of comparison, the underlying total 
loss for the year of £14.8 million highlights 
an improved trading performance in 
comparison to the underlying loss of  
£19. 1 	 million 	 in 	 2013. 	 Ex ceptional 	 costs	 
are reviewed in more detail below.
Exceptional Items
In 2014, the Group recorded exceptional 
charges of £5.3 million (2013: exceptional 
gain	 of	£3.9	million).	
Following the completion of Project Reset, 
which further enhanced our partnership 
incentive scheme and entailed a significant 
restructure of the Group to simplify our 
corporate structure; a non-cash IFRS 2 
charge of £1.7 million was recognised in 
relation to the shares and associated share 
options issued. Further ongoing share-based 
charges are expected going forwards in 
relation to share options being granted  
to Circle clinicians and employees.    
The Group made a non-cash gain of  
£4.8 million upon wind-up of the joint 
venture activities in Health Properties 
(Bath) Limited (‘HP Bath’).
An impairment of £0.1 million was 
recorded against Birmingham assets  
under construction, following updated 
plans for CircleBirmingham, along with  
a £2.8 million impairment of assets under 
construction at the Manchester site, as 
reported in the first half of 2014. 
The Group has made cumulative payments 
of £4.8 million towards working capital to  
Hinchingbrooke to date, and has provided 
for a further £0.2 million, culminating in a 
£5 million receivable at year-end. The full 
amount has been provided against, given the 
current status of the contract. Please refer 
to the Directors’ report for further details.
Other exceptional costs of £0.7 million 
incurred related to advisory fees to assist 
the Group’s consideration of potential 
acquisitions. The Group incurred fees 
during the year in relation to due diligence 
costs for a material potential acquisition. 
This acquisition was unsuccessful and 
the costs have been included within 
exceptional costs.  
Corporate streamlining
The ongoing exercise to rationalise the 
number of Group entities resulted in the 
wind-up of a further eight entities, reducing 
the costs of administration. A further 11 
entities are planned to be dissolved in 2015.
Financing
In January 2014, the Group successfully 
raised £27.5 million (before fees) by way 
of equity funding. The Group will use 
the proceeds for: growth and expansion 
into large markets, with planning set to 
commence on Circle’s next new-build 
independent hospital in Birmingham; 
pursuing growth opportunities for current 
operating assets, for example, expansion of 
current service offerings; and set-up costs, 
commissioning and working capital for a 
mix of up to three generic service lines. 
On 1 July, MPT, the US specialist hospital 
real estate investment trust, completed 
the purchase of the Bath freehold for  
£28.3 million. The asset was previously 
owned by HP Bath, a joint venture of which 
the 	 Gr oup 	 contr olled 	 38.7%. 	 This 	 sale 	 full y	
extinguished the loans held by HP Bath 
with Santander and Lehman Brothers  
(in administration), as well as an interest 
rate swap held in conjunction with the 
Santander loan. CircleBath has signed a 
15-year lease agreement with MPT, with 
a further 15-year extension, which will 
see its annual rent reduce by £1 million 
to £2.5 million. As part of the repayment 
of the mezzanine debt, Circle Holdings 
plc paid Lehman Brothers £0.6 million 
under a capped guarantee, which has been 
recognised in exceptional finance costs.
In July 2014, an amount of £2 million 
was released from escrow in Circle 
Hinchingbrooke Limited, in accordance 
with the terms of the Hinchingbrooke 
Franchise Agreement.
Two cash-backed performance bonds 
totalling £1.8 million, held in favour of  
GE Capital as guarantee for leased clinical 
equipment, expired on 31 October 2014, 
and the amount was returned to Circle 
Holdings plc. As a result, the Group has  
no restricted cash reserves. 
Cash flow
Net cash outflow from operating  
activities amounted to £8.4 million (2013: 
22. 1 million), showing an improvement on 
prior year. Some of this improvement can 
be attributed to the timing of Bedford  
MSK payments.
At 31 December 2014, the only borrowings 
remaining relate to finance leases of 
clinical equipment.
Paolo Pieri
Chief Financial Officer
18 March 2015
22     Circle Holdings plc
Chief Financial Officer’ s report
Continued
   
24     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     25
1 Michael Kirkwood CMG
Chairman
2 Steve Melton
Chief Executive Officer
3 Paolo Pieri
Chief Financial Officer
4 Dr Massoud Fouladi
Chief Medical Officer
5 Lorraine Baldry OBE
Senior Non-Executive Director
6 Lord Hutton of Furness
Non-Executive Director 
7 Justin Jewitt
Non-Executive Director 
8 Andrew Shilston
Non-Executive Director 
24     Circle Holdings plc
Board of Directors 
1 Michael Kirkwood CMG
Chairman (a), (b), (c)
*
Michael Kirkwood is an Economics and 
Industrial Engineering graduate of Stanford 
University and a Fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Bankers. He joined the Board 
of Circle Holdings plc as Chairman in June 
2011. He is additionally Senior Advisor 
(formerly Chairman) of Ondra Partners LLP, 
a non-executive director of AngloGold 
Ashanti Limited, and an Emeritus Director 
(formerly Chairman) of British American 
Business Inc.
Michael	joined	 Citigr oup	in	19 77	 fr om	
where he retired at the end of 2008.  
Prior to Citigroup, he spent a number of 
years in Asia with Bowater-Ralli Group, 
having started his career at HSBC. He  
was previously a non-executive director  
of UK Financial Investments Ltd (UKFI),  
Eros International plc, Kidde plc and Deputy  
Chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers  
LLP’s Advisory Board. He is a member  
of the Advisory Board of the Association 
of Corporate Treasurers and a patron 
of poverty housing charity, Habitat for 
Humanity. During his City career, he served 
as Deputy Chairman of the British Bankers 
Association, President of the Chartered 
Institute of Bankers, Chairman of the 
Association of Foreign Banks, and as a 
member of the CBI’s Financial Services 
Council.
A Freeman and former HM Lieutenant for 
the City of London in 2004, Michael was 
appointed a Companion of the Order of  
St Michael and St George (CMG) in HM 
The Queen’s 2003 Birthday Honours.   
2 Steve Melton
Chief Executive Officer
Steve Melton was appointed as Chief 
Executive Officer in December 2012, after 
previously holding the roles of Head of 
Mobilisation and Chief Operating Officer 
since joining Circle in 2008. Steve has 30 
years of experience leading large-scale 
operations in the retail, consumer goods 
manufacturing and healthcare sectors. 
Prior to Circle, he was the Supply Chain 
Director at Argos, where he also led a 
number of group-wide improvement 
programmes. 
Previously, he was Supply Chain Director 
at Scottish Courage, and General Manager, 
Non-Food Supply Chain at Asda. He began 
his career on Unilever’s Management 
Trainee Programme, and subsequently 
held a number of roles at Unilever, working 
internationally across the personal products 
business. Steve holds an MA (First Class) in 
Chemical Engineering from the University 
of Cambridge. 
3 Paolo Pieri
Chief Financial Officer
Paolo Pieri joined Circle after spending 
over five years at lastminute.com. He 
spent the majority of this time as the  
UK Finance Director and, subsequently, 
took on a number of operational roles, 
including the Managing Director of  
some European divisions.
Prior to this, Paolo spent seven years in  
the Virgin organisation, principally within 
the retail and cinema operations, where  
he spent three years as Finance Director  
of the Virgin Megastore business.
Paolo has a Bachelor of Accountancy  
from Glasgow University, and is a member 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
for Scotland.
4 Dr Massoud Fouladi
Chief Medical Officer
Dr Massoud Fouladi is a co-founder of 
Circle and Group Medical Director. He also 
serves as the initial director representative 
of the CPBT, the Group’s largest single 
shareholder.  
Massoud graduated from Bristol  
Medical 	 School 	 in 	 1990 	 and 	 completed 	 his	
ophthalmology training at Birmingham 
and	Midland	Ey e	 C entr e	in	1999.	He	 was	
also awarded a Masters in Health Services 
Management by Birmingham Health 
Services	Management	 C entr e	in	1998.
In 2001, Massoud founded the Ophthalmic 
Clinical Leads Forum at the King’s Fund. 
He was Chairman of the Association 
of Ophthalmologists UK from 2003 to 
2007. He remains an active consultant 
specialising in ophthalmic surgery.
5 Lorraine Baldry OBE
Senior Non-Executive Director  
(a), (b)
*
, (c)
Lorraine Baldry is Chairman of London  
and Continental Railways Limited, 
Schroders Real Estate Investment Trust, 
Inventa Partners Limited and Tri-Air 
Developments Limited. She is also a Board 
member of Thames Water Utilities Ltd. 
She was previously Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director of DTZ Holdings 
plc, and Chairman of the London Thames 
Gateway Development Corporation.
Prior to that, Lorraine was Chief Executive 
of Chesterton International plc, a senior 
advisor at Morgan Stanley, investment 
banking division, and Managing Director 
and a member of the Executive Committee 
of Regus. Lorraine joined Regus from 
Prudential Corporation where she held 
a number of posts, including Managing 
Director of Prudential Corporate Pensions, 
Chief Operating Officer of Prudential 
Portfolio Managers (now M&G), and 
Managing Director of its property 
investment division.
She was awarded OBE in the Queen’s 
Jubilee Honours, and is an Honorary 
Member of the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors and a past president  
of the British Property Federation.
5
7
3
1
6
8
4
2  
26     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     27 26     Circle Holdings plc
6 Lord Hutton of Furness
Non-Executive Director (b), (c) 
Lord Hutton served as a member of the 
British	House	 of	 C ommons	 fr om	1992	 to	
2010. During his time in government, he 
held several prominent Cabinet positions, 
including Secretary of State for defence; 
business, enterprise and regulatory reform; 
and work and pensions. Lord Hutton was 
also a minister in the UK Department 
of	Health	 fr om	1998	 to	2005,	 wher e	he	
helped lead the modernisation of the 
National Health Service. Prior to public 
service, Lord Hutton worked as a senior 
law lecturer at Northumbria University, 
and served as a legal adviser to the 
Confederation of British Industry.  
Between 2010 and 2014, Lord Hutton  
was the Chairman of the Independent 
Public Service Pensions Commission.
He is currently Chairman of the Nuclear 
Industry Association, a non-executive 
director of Sirius Minerals plc and Arthurian 
Life Sciences Ltd. Lord Hutton also holds 
advisory positions at Bechtel Corporation, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers and Lockheed 
Martin. Lord Hutton graduated from 
Magdalen College, Oxford University,  
in	19 7 8	 with	an	MA	and	a	Bachelor	in	 
Civil Law.
7 Justin Jewitt
Non-Executive Director (a)
Justin Jewitt has extensive commercial 
knowledge and practical experience in 
the delivery and creation of public and 
private health services. He graduated from 
Leicester	 Univ ersity	in	19 75,	joining	Mobil	
Oil Company Limited as a graduate trainee, 
where he occupied various roles for 12 
y ears. 	 In 	 1986, 	 he 	 joined 	 Thorn 	 Emi 	 plc 	 in	
their retail/rental division, moving through 
various senior management roles. 
In	1992,	 Justin	became	Managing	Dir ector	
of two B.E.T plc companies, Laundrycraft 
and Initial Healthcare (Textile) Ltd. Justin 
joined Nestor Healthcare Group plc in 
1994,	 wher e	he	 work ed	 for	10	 y ears	as	
Chief Executive Officer of the Group, 
building it into a FTSE 250 listed company. 
Justin also held several non-executive 
director positions in both private and 
public healthcare companies. Justin is 
currently a visiting professor for the  
Welsh Institute for Health and Social  
Care, University of South Wales, a member 
on the Quality Committee of an NHS CCG, 
and a senior independent director of NHS 
Shared Business Services Ltd.   
8 Andrew Shilston
Non-Executive Director (a)
*
, (b), (c)
Andrew Shilston graduated from the 
Univ ersity	 of	 Oxfor d	in	19 77	 with	an	MA	
in Engineering Sciences, and is a member 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of England and Wales and a Fellow of the 
Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Andrew joined Rolls-Royce Group plc in 
2002 and was appointed Group Finance 
Director in 2003, where he remained 
until 2011. He was Finance Director at 
Enterprise	 Oil	Ltd	 fr om	1993	 to	2002.		
Andrew was an independent non-executive 
director of Cairn Energy plc between 2004 
and 2008, and is currently Chairman 
of Morgan Advanced Materials plc and 
Independent Non-Executive and Senior 
Independent Director of BP plc.
The Group financial statements 
consolidate the financial statements of 
Circle Holdings plc (the ‘Company’) and 
its subsidiary undertakings (‘subsidiaries’) 
drawn up to 31 December 2014. Together, 
these make up ‘Circle’ or the ‘Group’.
Principal activities
The Group is a provider of healthcare 
services in the UK, treating privately insured, 
self-pay and NHS-funded patients. The 
Group’s business strategy is founded on  
the fundamental belief that the best way  
to deliver great patient care is to empower 
the doctors, nurses and everyone who 
works in the hospitals, treatment centres  
and clinics, to put patients’ needs first.  
Business review
The information that fulfils the requirements 
of the business review can be found in 
the Operating review on pages 12 to 16. 
Information on environmental matters, 
employees, community and social issues 
is given in the Report on corporate 
governance on pages 30 to 34.
Results and dividends
The loss and total loss for the financial  
year attributable to owners of the  
parent amounted to £8,055,000  
(2013: £6,678,000). The directors  
do not recommend the payment  
of any dividends (2013: £nil).
Cash flow
The total cash balance at 31 December 
2014	is	£2 4,496,000	(2012:	£12,39 7 ,000)	
of	 which	£2 4,496,000	(2013:	£8,59 7 ,000)	
relates to unrestricted cash. Net cash used 
in operating activities totalled £8,361,000 
(2013: £22,062,000).
Share capital and control
As at 31 December 2014, the Company’s 
authorised share capital comprised 
325,000,000 (2013: 250,000,000) 
ordinary shares of £0.02 each, 12,500,000 
convertible shares (18 months) of £0.02 
each, and 15,500,000 convertible shares 
(36 months) of £0.02 each, of which 
2 47 ,79 7 , 188	(2013:	130,7 85, 122)	(note	22)	
were in issue. Shareholders are entitled to 
receive the Company’s Annual Report and 
financial statements, to attend and speak 
at general meetings, to appoint proxies and 
exercise voting rights. The Company’s shares 
do not carry any special rights with regard  
to control of the Company. 
The appointment and replacement of 
directors is governed by the Company’s 
Articles of Association. Any changes to the 
Articles of Association must be approved 
by the shareholders in accordance with 
the legislation in force at the time. The 
directors have authority to issue and allot 
ordinary shares pursuant to Article 7 of  
the Company’s Articles of Association.
Policy and practice on  
payment of creditors
It is the Group’s and Company’s policy 
to abide by the payment terms agreed 
with suppliers wherever it is satisfied 
that the supplier has provided goods and 
services in accordance with agreed terms 
and conditions. A number of significant 
purchases and commitments under 
operating leases are paid by direct debit. 
At 31 December 2014, the Group had 
30 equivalent days (2013: 32 days) of 
purchases outstanding, and the Company 
had 46 equivalent days (2013: 68 days).
At 31 December 2014, trade creditors in 
the Group and Company were £6,666,000 
and £133,000, respectively (2013: 
£5,2 40,000	and	£190,000).
Going concern
The consolidated financial statements 
have been prepared on a going concern 
basis, which assumes that the Group will 
continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. The directors have 
prepared cash flow forecasts for a period  
of not less than 12 months from the date 
of signing the financial statements for  
the year ended 31 December 2014. 
The Board believes that, following the 
completion of the fundraising in January 
2014, the Group has sufficient funding  
to carry out its current business plans. 
Based on this, the directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the company 
has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Thus they continue to adopt the 
going concern basis of accounting in 
preparing the annual financial statements.
Events after the balance  
sheet date 
On 1 February 2012, the Group commenced 
the operation to run Hinchingbrooke. Under 
the terms of the contract (the ‘Franchise 
Agreement’), the Group agreed to make 
working capital contributions of up to  
£5 million, and to share surpluses generated 
over the term of the contract with the Trust. 
The Franchise Agreement allows either 
party to terminate if Hinchingbrooke  
incurs more than £5 million in aggregate 
deficits during the contract term. 
In January 2015, Circle announced its 
intention to terminate the Franchise 
Agreement. Based on discussions with 
the Trust Development Authority (‘TDA’), 
Circle expects the contract to be formally 
terminated on or before 31 March 2015, 
after which Circle will have no further 
financial obligations under the contract. 
Circle is obliged to pay all costs incurred 
by the Trust arising as a result of the 
termination, including, but not limited 
to, retendering costs, up to £2 million. 
As the franchise is not being retendered 
and because the transition period is 
significantly less than that assumed in  
the original franchise, the Trust, the TDA, 
and Circle have agreed £130,000 in 
termination costs.  
Board of Directors
Continued
(a) Member of Audit and Risk Committee.
(b) Member of Remuneration Committee.
(c) Member of Nomination Committee.
* Denotes Chair of respective committee.
Directors’ report
The directors present their Annual Report and audited financial statements for the Group 
for the year ended 31 December 2014.  
28     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     29
During the year, the Group has provided 
for a further £164,000 working capital 
contribution to the Trust, which has 
resulted in an aggregate £5 million 
receivable at the year-end. In light of the 
Group’s announcement of its intention 
to terminate the contract, the aggregate 
working capital contributions of £5 million 
are not recoverable and have been fully 
impaired.
Directors
The directors who served during the year 
and up to the date of signing the financial 
statements were as per the table.
Biographies of the current directors are 
detailed on pages 24 to 26, and directors’ 
beneficial interests in the Group’s share 
capital and warrants are detailed on pages 
36	 to	39	 of	 the	Directors’ remuneration 
report.
Directors’ indemnity
In its Articles of Association, the Company 
has granted an indemnity to every present  
and former officer in respect of proceedings 
brought by third parties. The Company has 
procured liability insurance for all directors 
and officers of the Company, and all Group 
companies. There are no outstanding 
claims or provisions as at the balance  
sheet date. 
Donations
The Group made charitable donations 
totalling £1,142 (2013: £1,000) during 
the year to a number of charitable 
organisations within the UK. 
No donation was made to any political 
party registered in the UK under the  
Political Parties, Elections and Referendums 
Act 2000 by either the Company or its 
subsidiaries.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Enterprise risk identification  
and management
The Group has an effective system of risk 
management in terms of identifying risks 
and monitoring actions to manage these 
risks. Further details of the Group’s risk 
management process can be found in the 
Report on corporate governance on pages 
30 to 34.
Risk is an unavoidable element of doing 
business. The Group’s risk management 
system aims to provide assurance to the 
Board regarding the effectiveness of the 
Group’s ability to manage risk. The system 
includes the controlled prioritisation of 
issues, review of key operational metrics 
in relation to clinical outcomes, patient 
experience, staff engagement and value-  
for-money (together known as the ‘Quality 
Quartet (QQ)’ review), mitigation, sharing  
of best practice and effective crisis 
management.
The following provides an overview of the 
principal business risk factors facing the 
Group, along with a description, where 
relevant, of the mitigating actions in place.
Financial risks
The Group’s operations expose it to a  
variety of financial risks that include working 
capital and funding risk, contract risk and 
price risk. The Group has implemented 
a comprehensive strategic planning and 
budgeting system to monitor and limit 
the adverse effects of the below risks, 
the results of which are presented to and 
approved by the Board. Management and 
the Board monitor performance against 
budget and key financial benchmarks 
through monthly reporting routines, 
detailed business reviews and variance 
analysis.
Working capital and funding risk
Working capital and funding risk is the 
risk that the Group will encounter in the 
event of difficulty in meeting obligations 
associated with financial liabilities or be 
unable to obtain sufficient funding to 
pursue its growth plans and expansion 
opportunities. The Group aims to mitigate 
this risk by robustly managing cash 
generation across its operations through 
detailed budgeting and tight cost control, 
as well as applying cash collection targets 
throughout the Group. Where the need 
arises, significant cost savings are made  
in the short term by reducing Head Office  
costs. The Group is also backed by leading 
UK institutional investors that have provided 
finance through several financing rounds 
over the last nine years.
Contract risk
Contract risk exists where the Group is 
unable to renew the NHS contracts at the 
end of their fixed tenure. The Group aims 
to mitigate this risk by maintaining good 
relationships with contracting parties and 
actively pursuing contract renewals and 
extensions ahead of time. During 2013, 
the Group won the retender to provide 
renewed services at the Nottingham  
NHS Treatment Centre for a further five 
years until July 2018. The Group also  
commenced the operation of a five-year 
integrated MSK service contract in 
Bedfordshire.
Owing to the complexity of delivering 
NHS-funded services, there is inherent 
contractual risk arising from the Group’s 
existing NHS contracts. Default and 
termination of these contracts could  
occur as a result of clinical or operational 
failures. The Group continues to mitigate 
these risks by focusing on its business 
model of delivering high-quality care  
at the best value.
Clinical quality risk
As with all medical providers, clinical 
quality risk is a major consideration. 
The Group has an integrated corporate 
governance structure which is chaired by 
the Chief Medical Officer, who also sits on 
the Board. This structure includes senior 
staff across the operational, clinical and 
central support teams. Each hospital site 
has its own local governance structure, 
while a team of clinical care quality 
specialists is dedicated to developing 
up-to-date and consistent clinical and 
operational policies across all sites.  
Local governance committees work  
to a rigorous assurance framework, 
manage day-to-day clinical risks through  
a risk register, provide appropriate training  
to staff and consultants, and report their  
findings to the Group’s Integrated 
Governance Committee (IGC). This 
committee, in turn, provides written  
risk assurance reports to the Boards  
of the relevant Circle Group companies  
and the Audit and Risk Committee.
Price risk
The Group generally seeks to price 
contracts at levels that take account of 
increasing prices and, where appropriate, 
establish contract terms that enable 
revenues to be adjusted as a result of 
any future increasing price levels. As 
the volume of patients is anticipated to 
increase, the Group will be increasingly 
subject to pricing changes from private 
insurance companies and the NHS  
pricing tariff.
The new Bedford MSK contract  
operates under a capped revenue budget. 
The underlying principle assumes that 
the service can be run more efficiently, 
improving the patient experience and 
reducing operational costs. Nevertheless, 
the Group bears the risk of rising operational 
prices as the baseline revenue is fixed, 
subject to local demographic or service 
portfolio changes.
Government policy and 
regulatory risk
There are risks that political or policy 
changes may mean that the number and 
size of contracts awarded to the Group 
are diminished, and that fewer services 
provided by the Group are contracted 
by the public sector. This is particularly 
relevant given the general election in  
May 2015. 
New regulations may be introduced, 
which could have an adverse effect on the 
Group’s operational and compliance costs. 
In addition, the Group relies on the ability 
and willingness of government-funded 
bodies such as CCGs and NHS trusts to 
pay for the Group’s services.
Reputational risk
Reputational risk associated with poor 
clinical outcomes or patient satisfaction  
is mitigated by the focus on providing 
high-quality medical care at the Group’s 
facilities, and constantly seeking to improve 
clinical services through the activities of 
the IGC and the QQ reviews.
Steve Melton
Chief Executive Officer
18 March 2015
Directors’ report
Continued
Steve Melton Chief Executive Officer
Massoud Fouladi Chief Medical Officer
Paolo Pieri Chief Financial Officer
Michael Kirkwood CMG Non-Executive Chairman (independent)
Lorraine Baldry OBE Senior Non-Executive Director (independent)
Andrew Shilston Non-Executive Director (independent)
Lord Hutton of Furness Non-Executive Director (independent) (appointed 21 May 2014)
Justin Jewitt Non-Executive Director (independent) (appointed 21 May 2014)
Tim Bunting Non-Executive Director (non-independent)  
 (resigned 21 May 2014)
Tony Bromovsky Non-Executive Director (non-independent)  
 (resigned 21 May 2014) 30     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     31
General
The Company, being quoted on AIM, is not 
required to comply with the provisions of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
‘Code’). Nevertheless, the directors are 
committed to the highest standards of 
corporate governance, and have voluntarily 
complied with elements of the Code issued 
by the Financial Reporting Council, where 
relevant and appropriate to the Company. 
As envisaged by the Code, the Board has 
established three committees: an Audit 
and Risk Committee, a Remuneration 
Committee and a Nomination Committee. 
In addition, the Board has authorised a 
Market Disclosure Committee and the 
IGC, with the latter reporting on clinical, 
operational and financial matters into 
the Audit and Risk Committee. These 
committees operate within defined terms 
of reference, as determined by the Board, 
details of which are publicly available at 
the Group’s registered office. The functions 
and responsibilities of each committee are 
described below, and the members of each 
committee are listed in the biographies of 
the Board of Directors on pages 24 to 26.
The Board
The Board of Directors comprises a  
non-executive chairman, four independent 
non-executive directors, and three executive 
directors (Chief Executive Officer, Chief 
Medical Officer and Chief Financial Officer). 
The profiles of the current executive directors 
and non-executive directors are set out on 
pages 24 to 26. The Articles of Association 
allow no fewer than three directors.
The Code recommends that the Board 
should comprise at least two non-
executive directors, determined by the 
Board to be independent in character and 
judgement, and free from relationships or 
circumstances which may affect, or could 
appear to affect, the directors’ judgement. 
The Board considers that the Company 
complies with the requirements of the 
Code in this regard.
The non-executive directors contribute a 
wide range of skills and experience, forming 
a strong and independent element within 
the Board. The non-executive directors 
receive a fixed fee for services rendered, 
are appointed for an initial period of 
three years, which may be extended by 
agreement with the Board, are subject to 
re-election by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting (‘AGM’), and are not 
employees of the Company at the time. 
Their opinions carry significant weight 
in the decision-making processes, both 
operational and financial, and they are free 
from any business or personal relationships 
that could interfere with their independent 
judgement. The non-executive directors 
ensure that some meetings are set aside 
during the year without the executive 
directors present. Lorraine Baldry OBE,  
is the nominated senior independent non-
executive director to whom shareholders, 
directors and employees may bring 
concerns which normal channels have 
failed to resolve or are otherwise not 
appropriate.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership 
of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness 
in all aspects of the role, including:
•	 managing	 the	Boar d;
•	 ensuring 	 that 	 sufficient 	 time 	 is 	 allowed	
for the discussion of complex or 
contentious issues; 
•	 ensuring	a	r egular	evaluation	 of	 the	
performance of the Board as a whole, its 
committees and individual directors; and 
•	 taking	 the	lead	in	identifying	and	
meeting the development needs of 
individual directors and the Board  
as a whole.
 
Report on corporate 
governance
Andy  
Addison  
Operations Manager  
at CircleNottingham
Coming from another 
organisation outside of 
healthcare, I have been 
absolutely blown away  
by the team ethic across  
the treatment centre in  
all gateways… 
‘‘  
32     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     33
The Board and its subcommittees meet 
at regular intervals throughout the year, 
and have reserved for their consideration 
matters, including:
•	 the	r esponsibility	 for	 the	 o v erall	strategy	
of the Group;
•	 significant	capital	expenditur e	pr ojects,	
budget approval and any major financial 
proposals;
•	 ensuring	effectiv e	systems	 of	internal	
control and risk management;
•	 r egulatory	compliance;
•	 appr o val 	 of 	 public 	 announcements 	 and	
communications with shareholders;
•	 appr o val	 of	 the	Annual Report and 
financial statements; and
•	 r emuneration	 of	k ey	senior	emplo y ees.
Detailed monthly operational, clinical 
and financial information is provided to 
the Board in a timely manner to enable 
it to discharge its duties. This includes 
information on the historic, budgeted 
and forecast financial performance of 
the business, as well as key performance 
indicators covering volumes, revenue and 
EBITDA, to allow the Board to challenge 
Group management effectively. A budget 
is agreed by the Board annually, and 
performance against budget is reported 
monthly.
The Board ensures that all directors  
receive appropriate training and induction, 
as required, and that they are able to take 
independent professional advice in the 
furtherance of their duties. The Board may 
appoint a director and revoke or terminate 
the appointment of a director as it thinks 
fit. Any director so appointed shall offer 
himself or herself for reappointment at 
the first AGM following appointment, and 
at each AGM thereafter. The shareholders 
may also remove a director by ordinary 
resolution.
Audit and Risk Committee
The Audit and Risk Committee’s role is to 
assist the Board with the discharge of its 
responsibilities in relation to internal and 
external audits and controls, including 
reviewing the Group’s Annual Report and 
financial statements, considering the scope 
of the annual audit and the extent of the 
non-audit work undertaken by external 
auditors, advising on the appointment 
of external auditors, reviewing the 
effectiveness of the internal control 
systems in place within the Group, and 
determining and reviewing the nature  
and extent of the risks facing the Group. 
The Audit and Risk Committee meets  
not less than four times a year.
The Code recommends that all members  
of the Audit and Risk Committee be  
non-executive directors and that the 
committee is not chaired by the Chairman  
of the Board. The Company complies  
with the requirements of the Code in  
this regard.
Reporting into the Audit and Risk 
Committee is the IGC, which is chaired 
by the Chief Medical Officer, Dr Massoud 
Fouladi, who also sits on the Board. Further 
details are provided in the principal risks 
and uncertainties section of the Directors’ 
report on page 27.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee 
recommends policies the Group  
should adopt on executive remuneration, 
determines the levels of remuneration  
for each of the executive directors, and  
is also invited to attend meetings of  
the Remuneration Committee of Circle 
Health Limited (‘CircleHealth’). The 
Remuneration Committee generates 
an annual remuneration report to be 
approved by the members of the  
Company at the AGM. The minutes  
of the Remuneration Committee are 
circulated to, and reviewed by, the  
Board. The Remuneration Committee 
meets not less than twice a year and  
the Directors’ remuneration report is  
set	 out	 on	pages	36	 to	39.
The Code recommends that all members 
of the Remuneration Committee be 
non-executive directors, and the Company 
complies with the requirements of the 
Code in this regard.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee assists the 
Board in determining its composition, 
desired balance of skills and potential  
Board candidates as the need may arise,  
and formulates the succession plans for the 
Chairman. It recommends to the Board the 
succession plans for the Chief Executive 
Officer. The Nomination Committee meets  
at least once a year, and whenever necessary, 
to fulfil its responsibilities. 
The Code recommends that a majority  
of the Nomination Committee be non- 
executive directors, and the Group complies 
with the requirements of the Code in  
this regard.
During the year, the Nomination 
Committee led the recruitment of two 
new non-executive directors (Justin Jewitt 
and Lord Hutton). The committee drew 
up a shortlist of candidates and, following 
a series of interviews, recommended the 
appointment of suitable directors to  
the Board.
Market Disclosure Committee
The Market Disclosure Committee assists  
the Group in meeting its obligations to  
announce price sensitive and other 
significant information, and decide quickly 
whether an announcement obligation has 
arisen under the AIM Rules for Companies 
and related legislation. 
The Code does not require companies to 
have a Market Disclosure Committee, but 
the directors consider it best  
practice to have such a committee.
Performance evaluation  
and attendance
The Board has undertaken a formal 
evaluation of its own performance 
and that of its committees through 
the circulation and completion of a 
comprehensive questionnaire. Having 
considered the results of the questionnaire, 
the directors have concluded that the 
Board and its committees continue to 
function effectively, and that the other 
commitments of the Chairman and 
directors are such that all directors  
are capable of devoting sufficient  
time to the Company.
Attendance by the directors at the  
various committees during the year  
was as follows:
Report on corporate governance
Continued
1 Tony Bromovsky resigned from the Board on 21 May 2014.
2 Tim Bunting resigned from the Board on 21 May 2014.
3 Lord Hutton of Furness was appointed on 21 May 2014.
4 Justin Jewitt was appointed on 21 May 2014.
     Market  
    Disclosure Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination 
   Board Committee Committee Committee Committee
Lorraine Baldry   8 n/a 4 3 2
Tony Bromovsky
1
   3 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Tim Bunting
2
   2 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Massoud Fouladi   6 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Lord Hutton
3
   5 n/a n/a 2 n/a
Justin Jewitt
4
   5 n/a 3 n/a n/a
Michael Kirkwood   8 2 1 3 2
Steve Melton   8 1 n/a n/a n/a
Paolo Pieri   8 2 n/a n/a n/a
Andrew Shilston   8 n/a 4 3 2
Total meetings held   8 2 4 3 2 34     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     35
Relations with shareholders
The Company maintains a regular  
dialogue with fund managers, other 
investors and analysts, usually following  
the announcement of interim and final 
results, to ensure that the investing 
community receives a balanced  
and consistent view of the Group’s 
performance. The principal documents 
received by shareholders are the Interim 
Report, Annual Report and financial 
statements, and any circulars as 
appropriate. The Company’s AGM  
provides an opportunity to respond  
to shareholders’ questions.
Employee involvement
Circle is a socially responsible employer, 
and various initiatives are in place to 
ensure that staff are treated fairly, as they 
are critical to its clinical, commercial and 
operational success. Communication is 
critical to employee relations, and the 
Group uses bi-weekly business updates 
with all sites present via teleconference to 
ensure employees are fully informed about 
plans and progress. Communications from 
the Human Resources Department notify 
all staff of any changes to personnel during 
the year. Semi-annual off-site meetings 
are held for management and directors 
to review strategy implementation and 
key business opportunities. Semi-annual 
performance reviews are conducted 
for employees, and individual training 
and development needs are identified 
to ensure staff receive supplementary 
training.
Following Project Reset, the Group is 
25%	 owned	b y	 the	newl y	 formed	 CPB T .	
Employees and clinicians who work in the 
Group’s facilities can own shares in Circle 
Holdings via the CPBT, and will be allocated 
share options according to performance. 
These organisational changes strengthen 
our identity and ethos as a co-owned 
company.
Disabled employees
The Group gives full consideration to 
applications for employment from disabled 
persons where the candidate’s particular 
aptitudes and abilities are consistent with 
adequately meeting the requirements of 
the job. Opportunities are available to 
disabled employees for training, career 
development and promotion.
Where existing employees become disabled,  
it is the Group’s policy to provide continuing 
employment wherever practicable in the 
same or an alternative position, and to 
provide appropriate training to achieve  
this aim.
Equality 
Circle seeks to be a socially responsible 
Group which has a positive impact on 
the communities it operates in. We look 
to employ a workforce which reflects the 
diversity of the Group’s communities. 
No discrimination is tolerated, and we 
endeavour to give all employees the 
opportunity to develop their capabilities.
Environmental matters
The services provided by the Group have 
minimal environmental impact. However, 
the Board believes that good environmental 
practices support the Group’s strategy by  
enhancing the reputation of the Group and  
improving the efficiency of running hospitals. 
Consequently, the Group continues to put 
environmental responsibilities high on  
the agenda.
The Group and its employees try to ensure  
that both services and products are procured 
in an environmentally friendly manner, 
and that waste materials are disposed of 
appropriately, including recycling where 
economically possible. The Group makes  
extensive use of electronic communications 
to reduce the amount of printing waste 
produced. Where appropriate, electronic 
communication methods such as email, 
telephone and video conference facilities 
are used to avoid non-essential travel. 
The Group does not offer a Company car 
scheme to employees, and encourages its 
employees to travel to work using public 
transport or a ‘bike-to-work’ scheme.
Ethical conduct
The Board is committed to uphold ethical 
conduct throughout the Group, and has  
in place confidential whistle-blowing 
and anti-bribery policies that enable 
unresolved concerns to be escalated  
to the Board’s senior independent  
non-executive director. These policies  
are made available to all employees via  
a web-based policy management system 
that enables periodic monitoring.
Health and safety
The Group is committed to protecting 
and enhancing the health and safety 
of its employees and all patients who 
are treated in the facilities it operates. 
The Group operates a formal health and 
safety risk assurance framework, which is 
regularly monitored by a dedicated health 
and safety officer who provides monthly 
reports to the management teams at the 
operational level, and quarterly reports 
to the Group’s IGC. Under the framework, 
significant incidents are reported without 
delay to the Board.
Michael Kirkwood CMG
Chairman
18 March 2015
Report on corporate governance
Continued
Michael 
Kirkwood 
Chairman
Our governance structures 
ensure robust oversight of 
the Group, with appropriate 
challenge to the management 
team and proper scrutiny of  
all our risks, remuneration  
and performance.
‘‘
   
36     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     37
Remuneration Committee
The members of the Remuneration 
Committee are set out on pages 24 to 
26, and the role of the Remuneration 
Committee is set out in the Report on 
corporate governance on page 30.
Remuneration policy
Executive remuneration packages are 
designed to attract, motivate and retain 
directors, and to reward them for enhancing 
value to shareholders. The performance 
measurement of the executive directors 
and key members of senior management, 
and the determination of their annual 
remuneration package, is undertaken by 
the Remuneration Committee. The Board 
determines the remuneration of the non-
executive directors.
There are several elements to the 
remuneration policy:
Basic salary
Executive directors’ base salaries are  
set by the Remuneration Committee, 
taking into account the individual’s  
level of responsibility, experience and 
performance. Salary levels are reviewed 
annually. In setting base salary levels,  
the Remuneration Committee also  
takes into account salary levels in 
comparable companies.
Pension scheme
The Group made contributions on behalf 
of executive directors during the year to 
a defined contribution pension scheme, 
which was introduced in 2012. 
Taxable and other benefits
These include items such as private 
medical insurance and dental plans. These 
benefits are in line with the remuneration 
policy framework.
Share incentive plans
The trustee of the Circle Partnership 
Benefit Trust (the ‘CPBT’) was issued 
convertible and ordinary shares in the 
Company as part of Project Reset, resulting 
in 	 the 	 CPB T 	 holding 	 a 	 25% 	 inter est 	 in 	 the	
issued share capital of the Company. 
The ordinary shares are to be used to 
satisfy options to be granted under the 
Company’s new share incentive plans, 
in accordance with the terms previously 
approved by the Company’s shareholders. 
It enables the participants (including 
executive directors) who contribute to  
the Group’s success and growth to be 
owners of the business.   
Share issue to non-executive directors
On 16 June 2014, the Group issued, at 
nominal	 value,	an	aggr egate	 of	62,7 69	
ordinary shares of £0.02 each in the capital 
of the Company (‘ordinary shares’) to 
certain non-executive directors pursuant 
to individual share awards (the ‘share 
awards’). This issuance represented the 
third and final tranche of share awards 
granted to these non-executive directors  
in 2012. The ordinary shares were issued  
as set out in the table below.
The ordinary shares issued to the  
non-executive directors cannot be sold  
or transferred until one year following the 
end of the non-executive directors’ term of 
service. The named non-executive directors 
do not hold any other interests in the 
ordinary share capital of the Company.
Share issue to directors
In December 2013, the Company agreed  
to grant to the Group’s Chief Financial 
Officer options to subscribe for 2,200,000 
ordinary shares at an exercise price of 
£0.02 per ordinary share. This separate 
incentive arrangement was agreed,  
given he was not a participant in the 
Group’s former share scheme, nor had  
he previously received as remuneration  
any shares or options in the Company  
since joining in 2010. The options were 
granted in December 2014 and vest in 
two equal tranches in December 2014 
and December 2015. An IFRS 2 charge of 
£572,100 (excluding National Insurance 
contribution costs) was recognised.    
Share warrants
Health Trust (Jersey) holds a total of 
2,340,765 share warrants at an exercise 
price of £1.52, which entitle the holder to 
an equivalent number of ordinary shares  
in the Company. Ali Parsa, the Group’s 
former Chief Executive Officer, is a 
beneficiary of the Trust.
Service contracts
The Company’s policy is for executive 
directors’ service contract notice periods 
to be no longer than 12 months, with the 
directors having to give not less than six 
months’ written notice. In the event of 
termination, the Company will seek fair 
mitigation of contractual rights. Within 
legal constraints, the Remuneration 
Committee tailors its approach, in 
the event of early termination, to the 
circumstances of each individual case.  
The contracts of executive directors do  
not provide for any enhanced payments  
in the event of a change of control in  
the Company.
Non-executive directors
Non-executive directors are appointed for 
an initial period of three years, which may 
be extended by agreement with the Board, 
subject to re-election by shareholders 
at the AGM. Such appointment may be 
terminated by the Board or the director 
with one month’s notice. None of the  
non-executive directors is engaged on  
a service contract with the Company.
The Chairman’s remuneration was 
determined by the Board, based on 
industry practice and taking into  
account relevant responsibilities  
and time commitment.
The remuneration for non-executive 
directors consists of fees for services  
in connection with Board and committee 
meetings and share options. Fees for non-
executive directors are determined by the 
Board, within the restrictions contained 
in the Articles of Association. The levels 
of remuneration for the non-executive 
directors reflect the time commitment 
and responsibilities of the role. The non-
executive directors are not involved in 
deciding their fees.
Individual emoluments  
for the year
The table below shows a breakdown, 
including taxable and other benefits, for 
each director for the year, or from the 
date of appointment for those directors 
appointed in the year:
Directors’ remuneration report
This report sets out the Group’s remuneration policy and details of directors remuneration.
    Number of Number of Number of  
   Number of ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares Number of 
   ordinary shares vested and vested and vested and  ordinary shares 
   awarded on issued on issued on issued on held at  
   18 June 18 June 20 June 16 June  31 December 
Non-executive director   2012 2012 2013 2014 2014
Michael 	 Kirkwood	 	 	 94, 157	 3 1,386	 3 1,386	 3 1,385	 94, 157
Lorraine 	 Baldry 	 	 	 	 47 ,07 8	 15,693	 15,693	 15,692	 47 ,07 8
Andr ew 	 Shilston	 	 	 47 ,07 8	 15,693	 15,693	 15,692	 47 ,07 8
  Annual    Actual taxable  
  contracted Actual Pension Share-based and other  
  salaries/fees salaries/fees scheme charges benefits  Total 
2014  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive
Stev e 	 Melton	 	 339	 3 28	 15	 0	 2	 345
Massoud Fouladi  158 158 24 0 – 182
Paolo Pieri  210 210 32 572 1 815
Non-executive
Michael Kirkwood   100 100 – 5 – 105
Lorraine Baldry   53 53 – 3 – 56
Lord Hutton of Furness  40 23 – – – 23
Justin Jewitt  40 23 – – – 23
Andrew Shilston  48 48 – 3 – 51
Tony Bromovsky  40 17 – – – 17
Tim Bunting  – – –  –  – –
  1,028 960 70 583 3 1,616  
38     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     39
Directors’ remuneration report
Continued
  Annual    Actual taxable  
  contracted Actual Pension Share-based and other  
  salaries/fees salaries/fees scheme charges benefits  Total 
2013  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive
Steve Melton  300 300 45 1 2 348
Massoud Fouladi  156 156 24 1 – 181
Paolo Pieri  188 188 28 – 1 217
Non-executive
Michael Kirkwood   100 100 – 11 – 111
Lorraine Baldry   53 53 – 6 – 59
Peter Cornell  40 20 – 6 – 26
Andrew Shilston  48 48 – 6 – 54
Tony Bromovsky  40 40 – – – 40
Tim Bunting  – – – – – –
  925 905 97 31 3 1,036
No directors waived emoluments in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014 (2013: none).
Shares in Circle Partnership Limited
    At  Circle Holdings At 
    1 January Awards acquisitions 31 December 
    2014 in year of shares
*
 2014 
2014    Number Number Number Number
Massoud Fouladi    5,418,500 – (5,418,500) –
Stev e 	 Melton	 	 	 	 908,000	 –	 (908,000)	 –
     6,326,500 – (6,326,500) –
Shares in Circle Holdings plc
The table below shows the number of convertible shares issued to the directors, following the completion of Project Reset as explained  
in note 6:  
     Circle Holdings Circle Holdings  
     plc convertible plc convertible Total 
     (18 months) (36 months) convertible 
     shares shares shares
Massoud Fouladi        1,181,233   1,181,233 2,362,466 
Stev e	Melton	 	 	 	 	 19 7 ,944	 	19 7 ,944		 395,888	
Warrants in Circle Holdings plc
    Exercise At Awards At 
    price 1 January in year 31 December 
   Year £ Number Number Number
Health Trust (Jersey)
**
   2014 £1.52 2,340,765 – 2,340,765
   2013 £1.52 2,340,765 – 2,340,765
Lorraine Baldry 
Chair Remuneration Committee
18 March 2015
* On 4 December 2014, Circle Holdings plc acquired all the issued shares of Circle Partnership Limited by means of the Scheme of Arrangement. As consideration,   
the Company issued convertible shares (18 months) and convertible shares (36 months) of 2 pence each. Further information is included in note 6.
** Health Trust (Jersey) is a family trust of which Ali Parsa, the Group’s former Chief Executive Officer, is a beneficiary. 40     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     41
The directors are responsible for preparing 
the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Directors are required by Companies 
( Jersey)	Law	1991	 to	pr epar e	 financial	
statements for each financial year. The 
directors have elected to prepare the 
Group financial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (‘IFRSs’), as adopted by the 
European Union and the Company financial 
statements, in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (‘UK GAAP’), as well as applicable 
law. Under Company law, the directors 
must not approve the financial statements 
unless they are satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs  
of the Group and the Company, and the 
profit or loss of the Group for that period. 
In preparing these financial statements,  
the directors are required to:
•	 select	suitable	accounting	policies	 
and then apply them consistently;
•	 mak e	judgements	and	estimates	 
that are reasonable and prudent;
•	 state 	 whether 	 applicable 	 IFRSs 	 and 	 UK	
accounting standards as appropriate, 
have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed  
and explained in the financial 
statements; and
•	 pr epar e	 the	 financial	statements	 on	
the going concern basis, unless it is 
inappropriate to presume the Company 
and the Group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the Group’s 
and Company’s transactions, and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy, at any time, 
the financial position of the Group and 
the Company, and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with 
C ompanies	 ( Jersey)	 Law	 1991.	 They	 ar e	 a l s o	
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of 
fraud and other irregularities.  
The directors are responsible for the  
maintenance and integrity of the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom  
governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.  
Each of the directors, whose names  
and functions are listed in the Board  
of Directors’ report, confirm that, to  
the best of their knowledge:
•	 the	 Gr oup	 financial	statements,	 which	
have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and loss of the  
Group; and
•	 the	Directors’ report includes a  
fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the 
position of the Group, together with  
a description of the principal risks  
and uncertainties that it faces. 
Disclosure of information  
to auditors
So far as the directors are aware,  
at the time the report is approved:
•	 ther e	is	no	r elevant	audit	information	
of which the Company’s auditors are 
unaware; and
•	 each	 dir ector	has	 tak en	all	 the	steps	 
that he or she ought to have taken  
as a director, in order to make himself 
or herself aware of any relevant audit 
information, and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of the 
information.
Independent auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have 
indicated their willingness to continue 
in office. A resolution concerning their 
reappointment will be proposed at  
the AGM.
On behalf of the Board
Steve Melton
Chief Executive Officer
18 March 2015
Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities
Patient, CircleReading
These guys take great pride and care in their work.  
I highly praise hospitality for their outstanding work.
‘‘
Patient, 
CircleNottingham 
My operation was carried out by true 
professionals. I haven’t had any pain  
since, and I was able to carry out my  
normal activities almost immediately.
‘‘
  42     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     43
 
We test and examine information, using 
sampling and other auditing techniques, 
to the extent we consider necessary to 
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw 
conclusions. We obtain audit evidence 
through testing the effectiveness of 
controls, substantive procedures, or  
a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the Annual 
Report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited financial statements, 
and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect, based 
on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course  
of performing the audit. If we become 
aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies, we 
consider the implications for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on  
the Company financial statements  
of Circle Holdings plc for the year  
ended 31 December 2014.
Simon O’Brien (Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and  
Recognised Auditor
London
March 2015
Independent auditors’ report
To the members of Circle Holdings plc
Report on the Group  
financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Circle Holdings plc’s  
Group financial statements (the ‘financial 
statements’):
•	 giv e	a	 true	and	 fair	 view	 of	 the	state	 of	
the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 
2014, and of its loss and cash flows  
for the year then ended;
•	 hav e	been	pr operl y	pr epar ed	in	
accordance with IFRSs, as adopted  
by the European Union; and
•	 hav e 	 been 	 pr epar ed 	 in 	 accor dance 	 with	 
the requirements of the Companies 
( Jersey)	Law	1991.
What we have audited
Circle Holdings plc’s financial statements 
comprise:
•	 the	consolidated	balance	sheet	as	at	 
31 December 2014;
•	 the	consolidated	income	statement	 
for the year then ended;
•	 the	consolidated	statement	 of	cash	 
flow for the year then ended;
•	 the	consolidated	statement	 of	changes	 
in equity for the year then ended; and
•	 the	notes	 to	 the	 financial	statements,	
which include a summary of significant 
accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that 
has been applied in the preparation of the 
financial statements is applicable law and 
IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union.
In applying the financial reporting framework, 
the directors have made a number of 
subjective judgements, for example, in 
respect of significant accounting estimates. 
In making such estimates, they have made 
assumptions and considered future events.
Certain disclosures required by the financial 
reporting framework have been presented 
elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than 
in the notes to the financial statements. These 
are cross-referenced from the financial 
statements and are identified as audited.
Opinion on other matter 
In our opinion, the information given in the 
Directors’ report for the financial year for 
which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements.
Other matters on which we are 
required to report by exception
Adequacy of accounting records  
and information and explanations 
received
Under 	 the 	 C ompanies 	 ( Jersey) 	 Law 	 1991,	 
we are required to report to you if, in  
our opinion:
•	 we 	 hav e 	 not 	 r eceiv ed 	 all 	 the 	 information	
and explanations we require for our 
audit; or
•	 pr oper	accounting	r ecor ds	hav e	not	 
been kept, or returns adequate for  
our audit have not been received  
from branches not visited by us; or
•	 the	 financial	statements	ar e	not	in	
agreement with the accounting records 
and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising 
from this responsibility.
Responsibilities for the financial 
statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those  
of the directors
As explained more fully in the Statement 
of directors’ responsibilities set out on page 
41, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements  
and for being satisfied that they give a  
true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (‘ISAs’) 
(UK and Ireland) . Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been 
prepared for, and only for, the Company’s 
members as a body in accordance with 
Article 113A of the Companies (Jersey) Law 
1991	and	 for	no	 other	purpose.	 W e	 do	not ,	
in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to 
any other person to whom this report is 
shown or into whose hands it may come, 
save where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing.
What an audit of financial 
statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance  
with ISAs (UK and Ireland). An audit 
involves obtaining evidence about the 
amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements  
are free from material misstatement, 
whether caused by fraud or error.  
This includes an assessment of: 
•	 whether	 the	accounting	policies	ar e	
appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, 
and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; 
•	 the	r easonableness	 of	significant	
accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and 
•	 the	 o v erall	pr esentation	 of	 the	 
financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas  
by assessing the directors’ judgements 
against available evidence, forming our  
own judgements, and evaluating the 
disclosures in the financial statements.  
44     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     45
       2014 2013 
     Note £’000 £’000
Revenue     4 110,983 84,252
Cost of sales      (80,373) (56,861)
Gross profit       30,610 	 27 ,391
Administrative expenses before exceptional items     (43,939) (45,117)
Operating loss before exceptional items     5 (13,329) (17,726)
Exceptional operating items     6 (5,341) 3,860
Operating loss     5 (18,670) (13,866)
Finance income     10 181 2,035
Finance costs     9 (911) (2,774)
Exceptional finance items     6 (625) 1,113
Provision for joint venture deficit     15 (130) (1,738)
Loss before taxation      (20,155) (15,230)
Income tax credit     12 – –
Loss for the financial year       (20,155) (15,230)
Loss for the year attributable to     
–  Owners of the parent      (8,055) (6,678)
–  Non-controlling interests     23 (12,100) (8,552)
      (20,155) (15,230)
Basic and diluted loss per ordinary share attributable to the owners of the parent (pence) 11 (4.3) (5.1)
     
There is no other comprehensive income arising in the Group or joint venture (2013: £nil) and, therefore, no separate statement of other 
comprehensive income has been prepared.     
        2014 2013 
      Note £’000 £’000
Non-current assets     
Intangible assets      13 5,562 	 5,982
Property, plant and equipment     14 17,498 20,675
Trade and other receivables      17 2,500 3,840
       25,560 	 30,49 7
Current assets     
Inventories      16 1,806 1,645
Trade and other receivables      17 16,683 14,184
Cash and cash equivalents      18 24,496 	 12,39 7
       42,985 28,226
Total assets       68,545 58,723
Current liabilities     
Trade and other payables      19 (21,256) (11,818)
Loans and other borrowings      20 (1,922) (1,547)
Provisions      21 – (605)
       (23,178) 	 (13,9 7 0)
Non-current liabilities     
Trade and other payables      19 (2,074) 	 (2, 169)
Loans and other borrowings      20 (8,869) 	 (9,982)
Provision for joint venture deficit     15 – (4,685)
Provisions      21 (50) (50)
       (10,993) (16,886)
Total liabilities        (34,171) (30,856)
Net assets       34,374 27,867
Share capital      22 4,956 2,616
Share premium      22 236,795 	 193, 145
Other reserves      22 22,182 22,182
Warrant reserve      24 22,703 22,703
Share-based charges reserve     25 1,842 151
Treasury share reserve      22 (9,587) –
Retained deficit        (244,517) 	 (169,980)
Equity attributable to owners of the parent      34,374 70,817
Non-controlling interests      23 – 	 (42,950)
Total equity       34,374 27,867
     
The	 financial	statements	 on	pages	44	 to	93	 wer e	appr o v ed	b y	 the	Boar d	 of	Dir ectors	 on	18	Mar ch	2015	and	 wer e	signed	 on	its	behalf	b y:
 Steve Melton Paolo Pieri 
 Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
 Circle Holdings plc  
 Registered number: 100016 (Jersey)
Consolidated  
income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Consolidated  
balance sheet
As at 31 December 2014   
46     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     47
       2014 2013 
     Note £’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities     
Net cash outflow from operating activities    29 (8,361) (22,062)
Interest paid     (1,536) (2,400)
Interest received    10 – 2,035
Tax paid     – –
Net cash used in operating activities     (9,897) (22,427)
     
Cash flows from investing activities     
Additional consideration paid for Windsor Hand Surgery     – (366)
Purchase of computer software    13 (112) (57)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment     (1,383) (881)
Net cash used in investing activities     (1,495) (1,304)
     
Cash flows from financing activities     
Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares     22 27,500 –
Capitalised costs in relation to fundraising    22 (1,280) –
Capitalised costs in relation to Group restructuring     (1,250) –
Repayment of borrowings    30 – (430)
Repayment of finance lease    30 (1,660) (1,471)
Interest received    10 181 –
Movement in restricted cash:     
–  Release of minimum balance – GE Capital Equipment Finance Limited (‘GE’)  30 1,800 1,300
–  Committed cash in respect of Hinchingbrooke deposit    30 2,000 –
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities     27,291 (601)
     
Net increase in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents     15,899 (24,332)
Unrestricted cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year    8,597 	 3 2,929
Unrestricted cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year    24,496 	 8,59 7
     
Cash and cash equivalents consist of     
Cash at bank and in hand     24,496 	 12,39 7
Restricted cash:        
–  Letter of credit – GE    18 – (1,800)
–  Hinchingbrooke deposit    18 – (2,000)
Unrestricted cash at bank and in hand     24,496 	 8,59 7
Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Consolidated statement  
of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2014
         Equity 
      Treasury Share-based  attributable Non- 
  Share Share Other Warrant charge charges Retained to owners of controlling Total 
  capital premium reserves  reserve reserve reserve deficit the parent interests equity 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2013  2,614  193,145  22,182  22,390  – 96  (170,612) 69,815  (27 ,088) 42,727 
Loss and total  
comprehensive  
loss for the year  – – – – – – (6,678) (6,678) (8,552) (15,230)
Transactions with owners              
Issue of shares in respect  
of awards to non-executive  
directors (note 22)  2  – – – – 55  – 57  – 57 
Share-based charges  
in respect of warrants  
issued (note 25)   – – – 313  – – – 313  – 313 
Effect of shares vesting  
in the period (note 23)  – – – – – – 7,310  7,310  (7,310) –
At 1 January 2014  2,616  193,145  22,182  22,703  – 151  (169,980) 70,817  (42,950) 27,867 
  – – – – – – (8,055) (8,055) (12,100) (20,155)
Transactions with owners
Issue of shares in  
relation to fundraising  1,100  26,400  – – – – – 27,500  – 27,500 
Capitalised costs in  
relation to fundraising  
(note 22)  – (1,280) – – – – – (1,280) – (1,280)
Effect of shares vesting  
in the period (note 23) 	 	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –	 6,439	 6,439 	 (6,439)	 –
Issue of shares in respect  
of Project Reset (note 23) 	 1,239	 19,7 80	 –	 –	 (9,587)	 –	 (7 2,921)	 (61,489) 	 6 1,489	 –
Issue of shares to acquire  
unvested shares in Circle  
Partnership Limited in  
respect of Project Reset  
(note 25)  – – – – – 1,105  – 1,105 – 1,105
Capitalised costs in relation  
to Project Reset (note 23) – (1,250) – – – – – (1,250) – (1,250)
Issue of shares in respect  
of awards to non-executive  
directors (note 23)  1  – – – – 14  – 15 – 15
Other share-based  
charges (note 25)  – – – – – 572  – 572 – 572
At 31 December 2014 4,956 236,795 22,182 22,703 (9,587) 1,842  (244,517) 34,374 –  34,374  48     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     49
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2014
1  General information
Circle Holdings plc (the ‘Company’), its 
subsidiaries and joint venture (together  
the ‘Group’) provide healthcare services  
in the UK. 
The Company is a public limited company 
and is incorporated in Jersey; however,  
it is resident in the UK for tax purposes.  
The registered office is 12 Castle Street,  
St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3RT. 
2  Significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied 
in the preparation of these consolidated 
financial statements are set out below. 
These policies have been consistently 
applied to all the years presented,  
unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements 
have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRSs’), as adopted by the European Union 
and IFRIC interpretations, Companies 
( Jersey) 	 Law 	 1991, 	 on 	 a 	 going 	 concern 	 basis	
and under the historical cost convention, 
as modified by the revaluation of financial 
assets and financial liabilities (including 
derivative financial instruments). In their 
preparation, management must make 
certain critical accounting estimates and 
exercise judgement in the process of 
applying the Group’s accounting policies. 
The areas involving a higher degree of 
judgement, assumption or estimates which 
are significant to the consolidated financial 
statements are set out at the end of note 2.
Items included in the results of each of the 
Group’s subsidiaries and joint venture are 
measured using the functional currency, 
which in all instances is Sterling. The Group’s 
consolidated financial statements and 
parent company statements are presented in 
Sterling. All financial information presented 
has been rounded to the nearest thousand.
New standards, amendments  
and interpretations
These consolidated financial statements  
are prepared in accordance with IFRSs,  
as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (‘IASB’), and as adopted 
by the European Union as at 31 December 
2014. The following standards have been 
adopted by the Group for the first time for 
the financial year beginning on or after  
1 January 2014, but have not had material 
impact on the group:
•		 IFRS	10,	‘C onsolidated	 financial	
statements’, builds on existing principles 
by identifying the concept of control 
as the determining factor in whether 
an entity should be included within the 
consolidated financial statements of the 
parent company. The standard provides 
additional guidance to assist in the 
determination of control where this  
is difficult to assess.  
•		 IFRS	11,	‘ Joint	arrangements’ ,	 focuses	 
on the rights and obligations of the 
parties to the arrangement rather than  
its legal form. There are two types of 
joint arrangements: joint operations  
and joint ventures. Joint operations arise 
where the investors have rights to the 
assets and obligations for the liabilities of 
an arrangement. A joint operator accounts 
for its share of the assets, liabilities, 
revenue and expenses. Joint ventures 
arise where the investors have rights 
to the net assets of the arrangement; 
joint ventures are accounted for under 
the equity method. Proportional 
consolidation of joint arrangements is  
no longer permitted. This has no impact 
on the Group, as equity accounting is 
already applied to its joint venture.
Patient, 
CircleBath
If this is what hospitals  
are going to be like in the 
future, bring it on. Fantastic!
‘‘
  50     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     51
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
 
•		 IFRS	12,	‘Disclosur es	 of	inter ests	in	
other entities’, includes the disclosure 
requirements for all forms of interests 
in other entities, including joint 
arrangements, associates, structured 
entities, and other off-balance sheet 
vehicles. There are no interests in other 
entities to disclose for the year ended  
31 December 2014.
New standards and  
interpretations not yet adopted
A number of new standards and 
amendments to standards and 
interpretations are effective for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January  
2014, and have not been applied in 
preparing these consolidated financial 
statements. None of these are expected 
to have a significant effect on the 
consolidated financial statements  
of the Group:
•		 Annual	impr o v ements	2012	–	 these	
amendments include changes from 
the 2010–12 cycle of the annual 
improvements project, that affect  
seven standards:
 – IFRS 2, ‘Share-based payment’.
 – IFRS 3, ‘Business combinations’.
 – IFRS 8, ‘Operating segments’.
 – IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’.
 – IAS 16, ‘Property, plant and  
 equipment’, and IAS 38,  
 ‘Intangible assets’.
 – Consequential amendments to  
	 IFRS	9,	‘Financial	instruments’ ,	 
 and IAS 37 , ‘Provisions, contingent  
 liabilities and contingent assets’.
	 –	 IAS	39,	‘Financial	instruments	–	 
 recognition and measurement’.  
 Effective date is for annual periods   
 beginning on or after 1 July 2014.  
 
•		 IFRS	15,	‘R ev enue	 fr om	contracts	 with	
customers’, is a converged standard 
from the IASB and FASB on revenue 
recognition. The standard will improve 
the financial reporting of revenue and 
improve comparability of the top line in 
financial statements globally. Effective 
date is expected to be annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
The above amendments are not expected 
to materially impact the Group’s financial 
statements in future periods.
Going concern
The directors consider it to be appropriate 
for the financial statements to be prepared 
on a going concern basis, based on the 
assumptions considered in the Directors’ 
report on page 27.
Basis of consolidation
i Subsidiaries
 The results of subsidiaries (defined 
as entities over which the Group has 
the power to govern the financial and 
operating policies of the subsidiary) are 
consolidated from the date on which 
control of the net assets and operations 
of the acquired company are effectively 
transferred to the Group. Similarly, the 
results of subsidiaries disposed of cease 
to be consolidated from the date on which 
control of the net assets and operations 
are transferred out of the Group.
 The Group applies the acquisition method 
to account for business combinations. 
The consideration transferred for the 
acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair  
value of the assets transferred, the 
liabilities incurred to the former owners 
of the business and the equity interests 
issued by the Group. Identifiable assets 
acquired, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
assumed in a business combination 
are measured at their fair values at the 
acquisition date. Acquisition-related  
costs are expensed as incurred. 
ii Joint ventures
 The Group has an interest in a joint 
venture. A joint venture is a contractual 
arrangement, whereby, two or more 
parties undertake an economic activity 
that is subject to joint control, and 
involves the establishment of a separate 
entity in which each venture has an 
interest. The Group recognises its 
interest in joint ventures using equity 
accounting, which requires the interest 
in the joint venture to be carried in the 
consolidated balance sheet at cost plus 
post-acquisition changes in the Group’s 
share of its net assets and liabilities, less 
distributions received and impairments  
in the value of individual investments. 
If the joint venture is in a net liability 
position, the Group recognises a provision 
for its constructive and legal obligations in  
relation to the joint venture. An exceptional 
credit which arose upon wind-up of the  
joint venture activities has been presented 
in the exceptionals (note 6).
iii Non-controlling interests
 Non-controlling interests in the results  
and equity of the Group’s subsidiary 
undertakings are recorded in the 
consolidated income statement and  
balance sheet, based upon the proportion 
of the non-controlling interest’s ownership 
of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings. 
This arose in CircleHealth because of  
the portion of shares issued to employees, 
clinicians and consultants via the Circle 
Partnership share scheme, which have 
vested unconditionally. Following the 
completion of Project Reset, Circle 
Partnership Limited (‘CPL’) is now 
a	100%	 owned	subsidiary	 of	 Cir cle	
Holdings plc and, therefore, as at 31 
December 2014, there is no interest 
outside the Group.
 The results of the subsidiaries and joint 
venture are measured as at the same 
reporting date as the parent company, 
using consistent accounting policies. 
Intragroup transactions and balances  
are eliminated on consolidation.
Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in  
a manner consistent with the internal 
reporting provided to the chief operating 
decision-maker, who is responsible  
for allocating resources and assessing 
performance of the operating segments.  
A change in the presentation of segmental 
information is explained further in note 3.
Revenue
Revenue, which is measured as the fair 
value of consideration received for the 
activity performed, represents the total 
amounts derived primarily from the 
provision of healthcare services in the UK, 
after deducting relevant discounts and 
value added tax (where services provided 
are not exempt). Revenue is recognised on 
completion of the patient’s appointment 
and can be broken down into the following: 
Any qualified provider
Any provider who is able to provide a specific 
service that meets the required minimum 
standards can be listed as a possible provider 
to deliver healthcare on behalf of the NHS 
at tariff. Patients choose their preferred 
provider under the national Choose and 
Book system. Following the patients’ 
treatment and subsequent discharge  
from hospital, the Group will invoice  
the clinical commissioning group (‘CCG’) 
directly at tariff for the medical procedure 
performed. Additional one-off payments  
are recognised in the period that the 
treatment is conducted. No provider is 
guaranteed any volume or exclusivity.
For non-fixed payments at treatment 
centres, outpatient revenue is recognised 
for a bundle consisting of an initial 
appointment and follow-ups, at completion 
of the first appointment, with any uplifts  
for outpatient procedures recognised at  
the time of the procedure. 
Contracts with guaranteed payments
The new Bedford musculoskeletal (‘MSK’) 
contract value has a term of five years. The 
contract creates a ‘prime provider’, which 
takes responsibility for co-ordinating and 
managing the rest of the system. The main 
contracting parties are Bedford CCG and 
local care providers. The contract revenue 
is spread over the term of the contract on a 
straight-line basis, as activity is expected to 
increase by demographic growth only over 
the five-year contract period. Additional 
revenue has been recognised, only to the 
extent that there is a high probability of 
receiving the revenue, and where it can be 
measured accurately. Additional revenue  
has been recognised in the financial 
statements relating to groups of patients 
that fall outside the initial contract scope. 
Circle bears separate risk over the  
revenue and costs, meaning that an agency 
relationship between Circle, Bedford CCG 
and the providers does not exist. As such, 
Circle has recognised the revenue and cost 
separately in the profit and loss account.
Private and self-pay
Payment is based on procedures performed, 
either at contractually agreed insurance 
prices or self-pay rates, which are determined 
by the specific procedure undertaken.
In the case of private revenue, the  
insurance companies pay the consultants 
directly, and Circle recognises revenue for 
use of the hospital, consumables and other 
clinical services.
For self-pay, Circle recognises that all  
the revenue and cost of the consultant  
is charged to cost of sales.
Revenue under management
For accounting purposes, the Group is  
not deemed to control the Hinchingbrooke 
Health Care NHS Trust (‘Hinchingbrooke’) 
and, therefore, does not consolidate the 
net assets and results of the Trust. Until 
such time that surpluses are generated 
by Hinchingbrooke, the Group has not 
recognised any income associated with the 
running of the contract and, meanwhile, 
revenue generated by Hinchingbrooke will 
be presented as proforma ‘revenue under 
management’, which is a non-statutory 
term. Under the terms of the contract,  
the Group had agreed to make working 
capital contributions of up to £5,000,000. 
Other miscellaneous income
Other miscellaneous income primarily  
relates to car parking revenue and 
delicatessen revenue. This income  
is recognised at the point of sale.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are disclosed and 
described separately in the financial 
statements where it is necessary to do 
so, to provide further understanding of 
the financial performance of the Group. 
They are items of income or expense, 
either one-off in nature, non-cash, or of 
such magnitude that the directors believe 
separate disclosure is required to allow 
readers to gain an understanding of the 
underlying results of the business. 
The exceptional loss in the year ended  
1 December 2014 was £5,341,000 (2013: 
gain of £3,860,000).
The exceptional finance cost of £625,000 
(2013: income of £1,113,000) is further 
explained in note 6.
Finance costs
Finance costs are recognised on an effective 
interest rate basis in the period in which 
they are incurred, except where they are 
directly attributable to the acquisition or 
production of a qualifying asset, which takes 
a substantial period of time to get ready for 
intended use, such as the construction of a 
hospital. In such cases, borrowing costs are 
capitalised as part of the cost of that asset 
from the first date on which expenditure is 
incurred for the asset. Capitalisation ceases 
when all the activities that are necessary  
to prepare the asset for use are complete. 
On certain loans, interest is rolled up into 
the principal. This is taken into account 
when calculating the effective interest rate. 52     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     53
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
 
Finance income
Finance income is accrued by reference to 
the principal outstanding and the effective 
interest rate applicable.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets comprise:
i Goodwill
 Goodwill represents the excess of 
the cost of acquisition of a business 
combination over the Group’s share 
of the fair value of identifiable assets, 
liabilities, and contingent liabilities of 
the business acquired at the date of 
acquisition. At the date of acquisition, 
goodwill is allocated at the lowest  
levels for which there are separate 
identifiable cash flows for the purpose  
of impairment testing. 
ii Computer software
 Computer software (defined as software 
that is not considered an integral part  
of the hardware equipment) represents 
third-party costs incurred in relation to 
the Group’s information technology  
(‘IT’) systems. 
iii Other intangible assets
 Other intangible assets comprise third-
party know-how costs which meet the 
criteria of IAS 38, ‘Intangible assets’. 
Impairment and amortisation
Assets that have an indefinite useful  
life such as goodwill, or intangible assets 
that are still in their development phase, 
are not subject to amortisation, but are 
tested annually for impairment, or more 
frequently if there are indications of 
impairment. Assets that are subject to 
amortisation or depreciation are reviewed 
for impairment whenever events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying amount may not be recoverable. 
An impairment loss is recognised for the 
amount by which the asset’s carrying 
amount exceeds its recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of  
an asset’s fair value less cost to sell, and 
value in use. 
Goodwill is initially recognised at cost.  
After initial recognition, goodwill is 
measured at cost less any accumulated 
impairment losses. The value in use is 
calculated using an appropriate pre-tax 
discount rate. Gains and losses on disposal 
of a business include the carrying amount 
of goodwill relating to the business sold.
Computer software and other intangible 
assets are stated at historic cost less 
accumulated amortisation and impairment 
losses. Once the asset is complete, 
amortisation is provided on a straight-line 
basis to allocate the cost of the asset over 
its estimated useful life, and the charge 
is taken to administrative expenses. The 
intangible asset is assessed for impairment 
whenever there is an indication that the 
asset may be impaired. 
The useful economic life of the Group’s 
intangible assets is as follows:
Computer software Three years
New-build programme  
‘know-how’
Five years
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated 
at historical cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses. 
Historical cost comprises all amounts 
directly attributable to making assets 
capable of operating as intended, including 
development costs and borrowing costs 
where relevant. 
Depreciation is provided on all categories 
of property, plant and equipment, with 
the exception of freehold land and assets 
under construction. Depreciation is based 
on cost less estimated residual value and 
is provided on a straight-line basis over the 
estimated useful life of the asset as follows:
Leasehold land Life of lease
Leasehold improvements Shorter of 
lease life or 
expected 
useful life  
(five to ten 
years)
Clinical equipment Three to  
five years
Furniture, fittings  
and office equipment 
(including commissioning 
costs)
Three to  
ten years 
Residual values and useful lives are 
reviewed at the end of each reporting 
period. The expected useful lives of the 
assets to the business are reassessed 
periodically in the light of experience. 
The carrying values of property, plant and 
equipment are reviewed for impairment 
when events or changes of circumstances 
indicate the carrying value may not be 
recoverable. 
Assets under construction
i Commissioning costs in course  
of construction
 Commissioning costs comprise staff,  
property, consultancy and operational 
costs directly related to the commissioning 
of new-build hospitals. Such costs are  
capitalised up to the point that the 
commissioning is complete and the 
hospital is fully open for business, 
subsequent to which further such 
expenditure is charged to the income 
statement. Once commissioned, the 
asset is reclassified from ‘assets under 
construction’ to the relevant property, 
plant and equipment category, and 
depreciated on a straight-line basis  
in accordance with the estimated  
useful lives as outlined above. 
ii Development costs in course  
of construction
 Development costs which are directly 
attributable to the development of  
property are capitalised as part of the  
cost of the property. The commencement 
of capitalisation begins when development 
costs for the property are being incurred, 
and activities that are necessary to 
prepare the asset ready for use are in 
progress. Capitalisation ceases when 
all the activities that are necessary to 
prepare the asset for use are complete.
Leases
Where substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership of the leased item 
are transferred to the Group, the lease is 
classified as a finance lease and capitalised 
at the fair value of the leased asset or, if 
lower, at the present value of the minimum 
future lease payments. Lease payments 
are apportioned between finance charges 
and reduction of the lease liability, so as to 
achieve a constant rate of interest on the 
remaining balance of the liability. Finance 
charges are recognised in the income 
statement. Leased assets are depreciated 
over the useful life of the asset. 
Where the Group does not retain 
substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership of the asset, leases are classified 
as operating leases. Operating lease rental 
payments are recognised as an expense in 
the income statement on a straight-line 
basis over the lease term. Lease incentives 
are recognised over the lease term.
Inventories
Inventories, primarily medical consumables, 
are stated at the lower of cost and net  
realisable value. Cost comprises purchase 
price less trade discounts, and is determined 
on a first-in, first-out basis. Net realisable 
value means estimated selling price, less 
all costs incurred in marketing, selling and 
distribution. Obsolete stock is provided for 
in the income statement.
Where title never transfers to the Group, 
consignment stock is held off balance sheet.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables represent amounts 
due from customers arising from the 
performance of services or sale of goods. 
Trade receivables are initially recognised 
at fair value and, subsequently, measured 
at amortised cost, which includes an 
allowance for impairment where there 
is objective evidence that the Group will 
not be able to collect all amounts due 
according to the original terms of the 
contract. The allowance for impairment  
is the difference between the asset’s 
carrying amount and the present value 
of estimated cash flows, discounted at 
the original effective interest rate. The 
movement in the allowance for impairment  
is taken to administrative expenses. 
Trade receivables are presented as current 
where collection is expected within one 
year or less, otherwise they are presented 
as non-current.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash 
in hand, deposits held at call with banks, 
overnight deposits, and other short-term 
highly liquid investments with original 
maturities of three months or less, and 
bank overdrafts. In the consolidated balance 
sheet, bank overdrafts are shown within 
borrowings in current liabilities. Restricted 
cash which is included in this balance is tied 
up, subject to contractual arrangements.
Trade payables
Trade payables are obligations to pay  
for goods or services that have been 
acquired in the ordinary course of business 
from suppliers. Trade payables are initially 
recognised at fair value and, subsequently, 
measured at amortised cost. If payment is 
expected within one year or less, they are 
classified as current liabilities.
Pension costs
The Group operates personal defined 
contribution pension schemes. Contributions 
are charged to the income statement as they  
become payable, in accordance with the  
rules of the scheme. The Group has no 
further payment obligation once the 
contributions have been paid.
Current and deferred income taxation
Tax expense comprises current and deferred 
tax. The charge for current income tax 
is based on the results for the period, as 
adjusted for items which are taxable or 
deductible in other accounting periods and 
items not taxed or disallowed. The charge 
is calculated using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the 
end of the reporting period. 
Deferred income tax is accounted for using  
the liability method in respect of temporary 
differences arising from differences between 
the tax bases of assets and liabilities, and 
their carrying amounts in the consolidated 
financial statements. In principle, deferred 
tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences, and deferred tax 
assets are recognised to the extent that 
it is probable that taxable profits will 
be available against which deductible 
temporary differences can be utilised. Such 
assets and liabilities are not recognised 
if the temporary difference is due to the 
initial recognition of goodwill or from the 
initial recognition of an asset or liability 
in a transaction (other than a business 
combination), which at the time of the 
transaction does not affect either taxable  
or accounting profit. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for 
taxable temporary differences arising on 
investments in subsidiaries and interests  
in joint ventures, except where the Group 
is able to control the reversal of the 
temporary difference, and it is probable  
that the temporary difference will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.  54     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     55
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities 
are offset when there is a legally enforceable 
right to offset current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities, and when the deferred 
income tax assets and liabilities relate to 
income taxes levied by the same taxation 
authority on either the taxable entity or 
different taxable entities where there is  
an intention to settle the balances on a  
net basis.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates 
that are expected to apply to the period 
when the asset is realised or the liability is 
settled using rates enacted, or substantively 
enacted, at the end of the reporting period. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the 
consolidated income statement, except 
to the extent that it relates to items 
recognised in other comprehensive income  
or directly in equity. In this case, the tax 
is also recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity, respectively.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to 
the extent that it is probable that future 
taxable profit will be available against 
which the temporary differences can be 
utilised. The carrying amount of deferred 
tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet 
date, and reduced to the extent that it is 
no longer probable that sufficient taxable 
profits will be available to allow all or part 
of the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group has previously entered 
into derivative financial instrument 
arrangements to manage its exposure to 
interest rate risk. The Group’s criteria for 
entering into such arrangements, namely 
interest rate swaps, are that the instrument 
must be related to an asset or a liability and 
it must change the character of the interest 
rate by converting a variable rate to a fixed 
rate or vice versa. At 31 December 2013, 
there were no remaining derivative financial 
instrument arrangements, and no new 
arrangements entered into during 2014.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair 
value at the date a derivative contract is 
entered into, and are classified as current 
or non-current based on the timing of 
cash flows. Derivatives are subsequently 
remeasured to fair value at each balance 
sheet date, and the movement is recognised 
immediately in the income statement, in  
finance income or finance costs accordingly.
Provisions for other liabilities  
and charges
Provisions in respect of dilapidations, 
onerous leases and under-declared VAT are 
recognised when the Group has a present 
obligation in respect of a past event, when 
it is probable that an outflow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation 
and it can be reliably estimated. Provisions 
are discounted where the time value of 
money is considered to be material, using 
an appropriate pre-tax rate that reflects 
current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to  
the obligation. The unwinding of the 
discount is recognised as a finance cost.
Loans and borrowings
All non-convertible loans and borrowings 
are recognised initially at fair value, net 
of directly attributable transaction costs. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans  
and borrowings are carried at amortised 
cost, with any difference between proceeds 
(net of transaction costs) and redemption 
value being recognised in the income 
statement over the period of the borrowing, 
using the effective interest rate method. 
Borrowings are classified as current 
liabilities unless the Group has an 
unconditional right to defer settlement  
of the liability for at least 12 months  
after the reporting date.
Warrants
A warrant is an instrument issued by  
the Company which gives the holder the 
right to purchase shares in the company  
at a specific price at a future date. An 
equity instrument is any contract that 
evidences a residual interest in the assets 
of the Company after deducting all of its 
liabilities. A warrant is treated as a financial 
liability if:
•	 it	is	a	non-derivativ e	and	 the	 Gr oup	 
is obliged to deliver a variable number  
of its shares; or
•	 it	is	a	 derivativ e	 that	 will	be	settled	 
other than by a fixed amount of cash  
or other assets for a fixed number of  
the Company’s own shares.
Transaction costs are apportioned between 
the liability and equity components of 
the instrument based on the allocation 
of proceeds to the liability and equity 
components when the instruments are  
first recognised. 
Equity warrants
The proceeds on issue of equity warrants 
are included within shareholders’ equity, 
net of transaction costs. The fair value of 
the equity component is not remeasured in 
subsequent years. The fair value of warrants 
is credited to equity, with the debit being 
charged to the income statement, or taken 
to liabilities where the warrants are linked 
to a loan.
Equity warrants are valued using an 
appropriate valuation methodology on a 
diluted pricing basis, based on the relevant 
share price at the time of issue, or based on 
an assessment of the market price at the 
time of issue.
Share-based charges
Shares, and in some cases share warrants, 
are issued to employees and consultants. 
The fair value of the employee services 
received in exchange for the grant of the 
shares or share warrants is recognised as 
an expense, with a corresponding credit 
to equity. The total amount expensed is 
determined by reference to the fair value  
of the warrants granted, including:
•	 an y	mark et	performance	conditions	 
such as an entity’s share price;
•	 non-mark et	performance	conditions	
and service conditions included in 
assumptions about the number of 
options that are expected to vest; and
•	 the 	 impact 	 of 	 an y 	 non-v esting 	 conditions.
And excluding:
•	 impact	 of	an y	service	and	non-mark et	
performance vesting conditions 
(profitability, sales growth targets and 
remaining an employee for a specified 
period of time).
The total expense is recognised over  
the vesting period, which is the period  
over which all of the specified vesting 
conditions are expected to be satisfied. 
Where modifications to existing share 
options occur, a difference between the 
revised charge and the existing charge  
will be made.
Dividends
Dividend distribution to the Company’s 
shareholders is recognised as a liability  
in the Group’s financial statements in the 
period in which the dividends are approved 
by the Company’s shareholders.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as  
equity. Proceeds received, net of any 
directly attributable transaction costs,  
are credited to share capital (nominal 
value) and share premium. 
Treasury shares
Following Project Reset, The Circle 
Partnership Benefit Trust (the ‘CPBT’) was 
issued with shares in the Company. The Trust 
is consolidated in the financial statements 
and, accordingly, shares held by the Trust are 
recognised at cost as a debit to equity in the 
Treasury share reserve. 
Significant accounting  
judgements and estimates
In the process of applying the Group’s 
accounting policies, the directors make 
judgements and estimates concerning the 
future. The resulting accounting estimates 
will, by definition, seldom equal the related 
actual results. The following judgements 
and estimates have the most significant 
effect on the amounts recognised in the 
consolidated financial statements:
Judgements
The key judgements that have a significant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to 
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
within the next financial year are discussed 
below: 
i Revenue recognition
 Under the new Nottingham NHS 
Treatment Centre contract, CCGs have 
signed up to a framework agreement, 
whereby, payment is made in advance 
based on indicative volumes, and then 
reconciled to actual volumes over a 
period of up to three months when the 
CCGs then approve the activity levels. 
Revenue is recognised based on activity 
performed in the month, which had not 
been approved at the end of the year. 
 
 The Bedford MSK contract entitles 
Circle to a revenue stream that is pre-
determined by the programme budget 
(‘capped’ budget). The annual revenue is 
spread across the term of the contract, 
and incorporates monthly seasonal 
fluctuations and demographic growth.  
In addition to this, the contract allows 
for one-off payments from Bedford CCG 
to Circle, in respect of treating inherited 
activity outside the initial scope of the 
contract. A judgement has been taken 
on the income per procedure, which is 
expected to be recovered from the CCG 
with reference to the income recovered 
from similar procedures.
Estimates
The key assumptions and estimates at 
the end of the reporting period, that have 
a significant risk of causing a material 
adjustment to the carrying amounts  
of assets and liabilities within the next  
financial year are discussed below: 
i Tax
 The recognition of deferred tax assets is 
dependent upon an estimation of future 
taxable profits that will be available 
against which deductible temporary 
differences can be utilised. In the event 
that actual taxable profits are different, 
such differences may impact the carrying 
value of such deferred tax assets in future 
years. Based on this, management has not  
recognised the deferred tax assets arising.
ii Provisions
 Provisions are assessed annually in 
accordance with the Group’s accounting 
policy. Provisions are recognised where it 
is probable that an outflow of economic 
benefits will occur as a result of a past 
event or transaction, and a reliable 
estimate of the outflow can be made.  
In the event that estimates are wrong, 
this may impact the financial statements  
in future years.   
3  Segmental reporting continued
       All other 
      segments and 
    Circle hospital Other Circle unallocated Total 
    services services items Group 
2014    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue from external customers    89,407	 21,557	 19	 110,983
Cost of sales    (60,212) (20,161) – (80,373)
Gross profit    29,195 1,396 19 30,610
Administrative expenses before exceptional items, depreciation, amortisation  
and charge recognised in respect of amounts recoverable on contract   (32,075) (2,547) (6,415) (41,037)
EBITDA before exceptional items     (2,880) (1,151) (6,396) (10,427)
Depr eciation	and	amortisation	char ge	 	 	 	 (2,448)	 (2)	 (452)	 (2,902)
Operating loss before exceptional items    (5,328) (1,153) (6,848) (13,329)
Share-based charges in respect of awards and warrants issued  
(includes National Insurance contributions costs)   – – (1,756) (1,756)
Impairment	 of	non-curr ent	assets	 	 	 	 –	 –	 (2,907)	 (2,907)
Provision for receivables    – – (5,000) (5,000)
Other exceptional items    – – 4,322 4,322
Operating loss    (5,328) (1,153) (12,189) (18,670)
Finance income       181
Finance	costs	 	 	 	 	 	 (911)
Exceptional finance income      (625)
Provision for joint venture deficit      (130)
Loss before taxation       (20,155)
Other information
Capital	additions	 	 	 2,07 0	 29	 210	 2,309	
56     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     57
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
iii Valuation of property, plant  
and equipment
 Freehold and leasehold land are held 
at cost less accumulated impairment 
losses. These were subject to valuations 
at 31 December 2012 by third-party 
professional valuers to assess for any  
indications of impairment. The valuations  
were based on a number of factors, 
including intended usage for the site, 
potential rental value and, where 
applicable, the length of the lease.  
In the event that estimates are wrong,  
this may impact the financial statements  
in future years.
iv Share-based charges
 Share-based charges are based on 
the share and warrant valuations 
calculated using several assumptions 
(for example share price volatility and 
time constraints) included within an 
option pricing model. In the event that 
estimates are wrong, this may impact  
the charge in future years.
v Useful lives and recoverability  
of property, plant and equipment
 Property, plant and equipment are 
reviewed on a regular basis to check  
they are still in use, to ensure that their 
useful economic life is in line with the 
expected life of the asset, and that their 
carrying values are recoverable. In the 
event that estimates are wrong, this  
may impact the financial statements  
in future years.
vii Allowance for impairment  
of trade receivables
 An allowance for impairment of  
trade receivables is made, based on  
the difference between the asset’s 
carrying amount and the present value  
of estimated cash flows. In the event 
that estimates are wrong, this may 
impact the financial statements in 
future years. 
viii Goodwill and intangibles
 Goodwill and intangibles are 
recognised at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment losses. 
The carrying amount of goodwill is 
assessed annually based on value-
in-use calculations, using cash flow 
projections based on five-year financial 
forecasts prepared by management. 
Key assumptions relating to forecasts 
in revenue growth and decline are 
used, which include discounting back 
to present value using a risk-adjusted 
pr e-tax	 discount	rate	 of	10%	and	
assumptions in terms of volume and 
cost savings. In the event that these 
estimates are wrong, this may impact 
the financial statements in future years. 
 Intangible assets that are subject 
to amortisation are considered for 
impairment when events or changes  
in circumstances indicate that  
the carrying amount may not  
be recoverable.
3  Segmental reporting
The chief operating decision-maker has 
been identified as the Board. The Board 
reviews the Group’s internal reporting in 
order to assess performance and allocate 
resources, and has divided the Group into 
three reportable business segments based 
on the Group’s management and internal 
reporting structure. The Board assesses 
the performance of the segments based 
on revenue, gross profit, EBITDA before 
exceptional items, and operating (loss)/
profit. Measures of assets and liabilities  
for each reportable segment is not 
reviewed by the Board in the Group’s 
internal reporting. All measures are 
prepared on a basis consistent with that 
of the consolidated income statement. 
Revenue charged between segments 
has been charged at arm’s length and 
eliminated from the Group financial 
statements. 
Revenue from external customers in  
the segmental analysis is also measured 
in a manner consistent with the income 
statement. This is split by hospital rather 
than by patient. Circle hospital services 
include CircleReading, CircleBath and 
CircleNottingham. Other Circle services 
include other non-hospital management 
services, such as the contract with 
Bedfordshire CCG to provide MSK to 
patients in Bedfordshire. Geographic  
factors are not considered, as all of the 
Group’s operations take place within  
the United Kingdom.
Reporting segments have been reclassified 
from prior years, and 2013 has been restated, 
as this is deemed to be more representative 
of the Group’s current internal reporting. 
The introduction of the Bedfordshire MSK  
contract during the year marked the 
introduction of a new operating segment; 
its economic characteristics being different 
to those of the hospital sites. CircleReading, 
CircleBath and CircleNottingham are 
hospitals that are managed in a similar way 
and have similar economic characteristics, 
meeting the IFRS 8 criteria for aggregation. 4  Revenue
i Revenue
       2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
Provision of healthcare services     110,547 83,873
Other miscellaneous income     436	 379
     110,983 84,252
ii Revenue under management
On 1 February 2012, the Group commenced the operation to run Hinchingbrooke.
For accounting purposes, the Group was not deemed to control Hinchingbrooke and, therefore, did not consolidate the net assets  
and results of the company. 
In the 12 months to 31 December 2014, Hinchingbrooke revenue increased to £110.1 million, supported by increased outpatient  
and accident and emergency attendances, and admissions. 
In January 2015, Circle announced its intention to terminate the Franchise Agreement dated 10 November 2011. Please refer to  
the Directors’ report for further details. 
5  Operating loss
       2014 2013 
     Note £’000 £’000
Operating loss is stated after charging/(crediting)
Charge recognised in respect of amounts recoverable on contracts    17 – 1,181
Amortisation of intangible assets     13 451 443
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment     14 2,451 	 2,290
Auditors’ remuneration (see below)     564 486
Movement in provision for bad debts     17 (73) 	 129
Operating lease rental     11,579 	 13,669
Exceptional operating items     6 5,341 (3,860)
Auditors’ remuneration payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
Fees payable to Company’s auditors for the parent Company and consolidated financial statements   94 	 90
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for other services  
–  The audit of Company’s subsidiaries      203 203
–  Audit-related assurance services      234 –
–  Tax advisory services      33 150
–  All other non-audit services     – 43
     564 486
58     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     59
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
 
3  Segmental reporting continued
       All other 
      segments and 
    Circle hospital Other Circle unallocated Total 
    services services items Group 
2013 restated    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue from external customers    84,200 – 52 84,252 
Cost of sales    (56,858) – 3 (56,861)
Gross profit    27,342 – 49 27,391 
Administrative expenses before exceptional items, depreciation, amortisation  
and	char ge	r ecognised	in	r espect	 of	amounts	r eco v erable	 on	contract		 	 (3 2,079)	 –	 (9, 12 4)	 (41,203)
EBITDA before exceptional items     (4,737) – (9,075) (13,812)
Depreciation, amortisation and charge recognised  
in	r espect	 of	amounts	r eco v erable	 on	contract		 	 	 (3,363)	 –	 (55 1)	 (3,914)
Operating loss before exceptional items    (8,101) – (9,625) (17,726)
Shar e-based	char ges	in	r espect	 of	awar ds	and	 warrants	issued	 	 –	 –	 (369)	 (369)
Incr ease	in	 oner ous	lease	pr o vision	 	 	 	 (35)	 –	 6 14		 579	
Impairment of non-current assets    3,578 – (3,732) (154)
Provision for receivables    – – (6,348) (6,348)
Other exceptional items    (136) – 10,288 10,152 
Operating loss    (4,694) – (9,172) (13,866)
Finance income       2,035 
Finance costs      (2,774)
Exceptional finance costs      1,113 
Provision for joint venture deficit      (1,738)
Loss before taxation       (15,230)
Other information
Capital	additions	 	 	 1,711	 –	 87	 1,798	 6  EBITDA and exceptional items continued
In	addition,	 Cir cle	Holdings	plc	issued	23,093,930	con v ertible	shar es	 of	£0.02	each	in	 the	 C ompan y ,	 to	 the	 trustee	 of	 the	 CPB T ,	split	 
in two equal tranches, which shall automatically convert after 18 months and 36 months, respectively, into ordinary shares. The convertible  
shares cannot be traded or sold until they have converted into ordinary shares.
The unvested shares in CPL were accelerated as part of Project Reset and exchanged for 2,231,770 Circle Holdings plc convertible shares  
at £0.02 each, resulting in an exceptional share-based charge of £1,105,000.
The CPBT was also issued with shares in the Company. The Trust is consolidated in the financial statements and, accordingly, shares  
held by the Trust are recognised at cost as a debit to equity in the Treasury share reserve. 
Project Reset transaction costs amounted to £1,250,000, all of which have been taken to share premium as costs directly attributable  
to the issuance of shares.
Health Properties (Bath) Limited
The Group made a gain on the wind-up of the joint venture activities of the Group’s sole joint venture, HP Bath, incorporated in Jersey,  
of £4,750,000. The freehold interest in the Bath Hospital land was sold, and associated loans wound up during 2014.
HP Bath sold its freehold interest in the land and the building on which the Group’s CircleBath hospital operates for £28,250,000 in July  
2014 to MPT. The proceeds from the sale were used to repay all of the amounts owed to HP Bath’s senior lender, Santander, and some,  
but not all, of the amounts owed to its other secured lender, LB UK RE Holdings Limited (‘LB UK RE’). As a result of the shortfall owed to  
LB UK RE, the Group paid it an additional £625,000 pursuant to a guarantee arrangement (note 6). No other amounts were paid or owed  
by the Group as a result of the disposal of the land and the satisfaction of the secured loans to Santander and LB UK RE. The unsecured 
shareholder loan and additional amounts totalling 1,621,000 (2013: £1,615,000) owed by HP Bath to the Group, which previously had  
been fully impaired, will be extinguished as part of the voluntary wind-up of HP Bath in 2015.
Prior to the sale of the freehold interest in the land, HP Bath entered into a new 15-year lease with CircleBath. Under the terms of the  
new	lease,	annual	r ent	 was	r educed	 to	£2,500,000	initiall y	(2013:	3,23 2,000),	subject	 to	annual	incr eases	based	 on	RPI	and	a	2–5%	 
floor-cap. At the same time, HP Bath entered into a new rent deposit deed with CircleBath that increased the rental deposit to £2,500,000  
(2013: £1,586,000). This deposit will reduce to £1,250,000 once CircleBath has achieved an EBITDAR-to-rent ratio of 1.75:1 in two 
consecutive quarters. Both the new lease and the rent deposit deed were transferred to MPT, the buyer of the CircleBath freehold,  
on 1 July 2014. 
Exceptional finance items
         2014 2013 
        £’000 £’000
Financing costs paid in respect of the final recourse guarantee in relation to the wind-up of activities  
in HP Bath        625 –
Gain on fair value of interest rate derivative        – (1,113)
        625 (1,113)
The interest rate derivative expired in July 2014 upon the repayment of the associated loan.
6  EBITDA and exceptional items
Exceptional operating items
       2014 2013 
     Note £’000 £’000
Impairment of property, plant and equipment     14 2,907 152
Impairment of Hinchingbrooke working capital contributions    5,000 –
Share-based charges      25 651 368
Deconsolidation of Health Properties Edinburgh     – (4,384)
Revaluation of finance lease payments      – 136
Provision for under-declared VAT in prior periods     21 (226) 115
Restructuring costs      1,105 312
Decrease in provision for onerous leases, including dilapidations    21 – 	 (579)
Provision for debtor with Health Properties (Bath) Limited (‘HP Bath’)     – 40
Gain on the wind-up of joint venture activities (net of professional fees)    (4,750) –
Other exceptional expense/(income)      654 (20)
      5,341 (3,860)
The Group has provided for the carrying costs on the current design development costs, which were historically spent on its Manchester  
and Birmingham sites as it re-evaluates the model appropriate for these markets. This impairment to assets under construction has resulted  
in	an	ex ceptional	char ge	 of	£2,907 ,000	in	 the	pr ofit	and	loss	account .	
A provision has been made in relation to Hinchingbrooke working capital contributions of £5,000,000. Further explanation is provided  
in the Directors’ report in regards to the current status of the Franchise Agreement.
A share-based charge for the share options awarded to the Group’s Chief Financial Officer amounted to £651,000, including National  
Insurance contribution costs. Further details are included in note 25.
During the year, the Group released a provision in relation to VAT, following the completion of HM Revenue and Customs’ (‘HMRC’)  
VAT enquiries. 
Other exceptional costs incurred related to advisory fees to assist the Group’s consideration of potential acquisitions.
Project Reset
Project Reset entailed the enhancement of our partnership incentive scheme and involved a significant restructure. All of the steps  
in	r espect	 of	Pr oject	R eset ,	 the	 Gr oup’ s	 or ganisational	r estructuring ,	hav e	now	been	completed	and	 the	 C ompan y	now	 owns	100%	 
of CPL, Circle Health Limited, and the Group’s operating entities. 
Under the terms of Project Reset, the Company issued 38,855,367 ordinary shares of £0.02 each in the Company to the CPBT, which are to  
be used to satisfy options to be granted under the Company’s new share incentivisation plans in accordance with the terms previously 
approved by the Company’s shareholders. 
60     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     61
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
  8  Directors’ emoluments continued
Compensation of key management personnel
The Group made payments to key management personnel, defined as the key executive partners of the business, for services provided  
to the Group as follows:
       2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
Short-term employment benefits      1,338  747
All key management personnel were also directors of the company in the year, and therefore, their remuneration has also been disclosed 
within aggregate emoluments of the previous section.
9  Finance costs
       2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
Interest on Barclays plc (‘Barclays’) loan     – 1,466
Interest on AIB loan     – 317
Finance lease interest     895	 973
Unwind of discount on unsecured loan note and deferred consideration    – 18
Other bank charges     16 –
      911 2,774 
10  Finance income
       2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
Bank interest receivable      118 65
Interest receivable on operating financial asset     –	 1,9 7 0
Other interest income      63 –
      181 2,035
62     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     63
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
 
7  Employee information
Staff costs
         2014 2013 
       Note £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries        25,695 22,076
Share-based charges        25 14 368
Social security costs        2,404 2,014
Other pension costs        27 1,492 1,184
        29,605 25,642
Share-based charges were charged to operating items.
Monthly average number of employees
         2014 2013 
        Number Number
Administrative        451 407
Clinical        523 347
        974 754
The average number of employees includes directors on a service contract.
8  Directors’ emoluments
       2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
Aggregate emoluments     1,612 1,036 
Directors’ emoluments relate to the non-executive and executive directors, who are remunerated by Circle Holdings plc and Circle  
Health	Limited.	 The	 dir ectors	had	r etir ement	benefit	contributions	 during	 the	 y ear	 of	£7 0,000	(2013:	£9 7 ,000).	Included	 within	both	 
years are share-based charges for the non-executive directors, as detailed in the Directors’ remuneration report. Additionally, there is an 
exceptional share-based charge of £572,000 (excluding National Insurance contributions) (note 25). 64     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     65
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
 
11  Loss per share
Basic loss per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the loss attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number  
of ordinary shares in issue during the year. Diluted loss per ordinary share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary  
shares outstanding to assume the conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares. Share warrants and options in issue represent the  
only category of dilutive ordinary shares for the Group. The following table sets out the computation for basic and diluted net loss per share  
for the year: 
      2014 2013
Loss and total comprehensive loss for the year attributable to owners of the parent (£000’s)  (8,055) (6,678)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (number)    186,911,084 130,748,362
Basic and diluted loss per ordinary share (pence)     (4.3) (5.1)
There is no difference in the weighted average number of ordinary shares used for basic and diluted net loss per ordinary share,  
as the effect of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares outstanding is anti-dilutive.
12  Taxation
i Analysis of income tax charge in year
         2014 2013 
        £’000 £’000
Current tax
UK corporation tax      – –
Deferred tax    
Originating and reversal of timing differences     – –
Income tax charge     – –
ii Factors affecting the current tax charge for the year
Although the parent company is registered in Jersey, it became resident for UK tax purposes during 2011, and is subject to UK  
corporation tax. The tax assessed on the Group’s loss before taxation differs from the average standard rate of UK corporation  
tax	 of	21.5%	(2013:	23.25%).	 The	 differ ences	ar e	explained	below:
12  Taxation continued
         2014 2013 
        £’000 £’000
Loss before taxation     (20,155) (15,230)
Loss before taxation multiplied by the average standard  
rate	 of	corporation	 tax	in	 the	 UK	 of	21.5%	(2013:	23.25%)	 	 	 	 (4,333) (3,541)
Effects of
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes     1,407 124
Income not taxable for tax purposes      – (153)
Temporary differences for which no deferred tax recognised     175 	 (993)
Tax losses for which no deferred tax recognised     3,862 4,820
Effect	 of	 Jersey	 tax	at	0%	 	 	 	 	 (1,111) (257)
Total income tax charge for the year     – –
iii Factors that may affect future tax charges
The 	 standar d 	 rate 	 of 	 corporation 	 tax 	 in 	 the 	 UK 	 changed 	 fr om 	 23% 	 to 	 21%, 	 with 	 effect 	 fr om 	 1 	 April 	 2014. 	 Legislation 	 was 	 enacted 	 to 	 r educe	 
the 	 main 	 rate 	 of 	 corporation 	 tax 	 fr om 	 21% 	 to 	 20% 	 (and 	 will 	 become 	 unified 	 with 	 the 	 small 	 companies 	 rate), 	 with 	 effect 	 fr om 	 1 	 April 	 2015.
The	r eductions	in	 tax	rate	 to	21%	and,	subsequentl y ,	 to	20%	 wer e	substantiv el y	enacted	 for	 the	purposes	 of	IAS	12,	‘Income	 tax es’ ,	 
on 2 July 2013. As these rate changes have been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, their effects have been included  
in these financial statements.
iv Deferred tax
UK deferred tax has been calculated at the rates of tax at which assets/(liabilities) are expected to reverse, based on enacted tax rates.  
The net deferred tax recognised in the balance sheet is as follows:
      2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
At 1 January       – –
Recognised during the year      – –
At 31 December      – –
The deferred tax asset not recognised in the financial statements is as follows:
      2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
Tax losses carried forward      29,480 26,558
Deductible temporary differences      4,129 	 3,928
      33,609 30,486
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in the financial statements due to the uncertainty over the availability of suitable  
future taxable profits against which the asset will reverse.  66     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     67
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
 
13  Intangible assets
       Other 
     Computer intangible 
    Goodwill software  assets Total 
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost     
A t	1	 January	2013	 	 	 8, 183	 1,7 44	 166	 10,093
Additions   – 57 – 57
As at 1 January 2014   8,183 1,801 166 10,150
Additions   – 112 – 112
As at 31 December 2014   8,183  1,913 166 10,262
Accumulated amortisation and impairment 
At 1 January 2013   3,212 480 33 3,725
Amortisation charge for the year   – 410 33 443
As at 1 January 2014 	 	 	 3,212	 890	 66	 4, 168
Amortisation	char ge	 for	 the	 y ear	 	 	 –	 43 2	 19	 45 1
Impairment charge for the year   – – 81 81
As at 31 December 2014   3,212 1,322 166 4,700
Net book amount      
At 31 December 2014   4,971 591 – 5,562
A t	3 1	December	2013	 	 	 4,9 71	 911	 100	 5,982
A t	1	 January	2013	 	 	 4,9 71	 1,264	 133	 6,368
The amortisation charge for the year is included in the income statement within administrative expenses before exceptional items. 
13  Intangible assets continued
i Goodwill
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the cash-generating units (‘CGUs’) that are expected to benefit from that  
business combination. CGUs are independent sources of income streams and represent the lowest level within the Group at which the 
associated goodwill is monitored for management purposes. The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated to the following CGU:
      2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
Circle’s Nottingham NHS Treatment Centre      4,971 	 4,9 71
Goodwill is subject to impairment testing annually, or more frequently where there are indications that the goodwill may be impaired. 
The recoverable amounts of all CGUs are determined based on value-in-use calculations, using pre-tax cash flow projections based on 
management-approved financial forecasts for the period of the contract. The key assumptions for these forecasts are those relating to 
revenue growth and decline, based on past experience and expectations of future changes in relevant CGUs. The Group prepares cash  
flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial plans approved by management for the period of the contract. Cash flows are 
discounted	back	 to	pr esent	 value,	using	a	risk -adjusted	pr e-tax	 discount	rate	 of	10%,	 which	r epr esents	an	internall y	computed	rate,	 
based on gearing levels and loan interest rates.
The financial plans reflect past experience and incorporate assumptions in terms of volumes and tariff deflation. Volume increase  
is	r easonabl y	assumed	 to	be	3%,	and	 tariff	 deflation	at	1.5%	 y ear -on-y ear .	 The	 value-in-use	calculations	ar e	sensitiv e	 to	changes	in	 
the key assumptions used; however, management’s sensitivity analysis shows that a reasonable change in key assumptions will not  
cause an impairment in the goodwill related to Circle’s Nottingham NHS Treatment Centre. 
ii Computer software
Computer software represents third-party costs incurred in relation to the Group’s IT systems. 
iii Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets include the development of ‘know-how’ for a new programme to build hospitals within a shortened time  
frame. This is achieved by utilising standard build components which have been manufactured off-site at a reduced cost, and reducing  
the amount of build time on-site. During 2014, this was fully impaired.
Assets held under finance lease have the following net book amounts:
      2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
Computer software     382 523
     382 665 14  Property, plant and equipment
       Furniture, 
  Freehold and    fittings 
  leasehold Assets under Leasehold Clinical and office 
  land construction improvements equipment  equipment Total 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost     
A t	1	 January	2013	 19,7 01	 3,404	 2,796	 8,005	 15,917	 49,823
Additions – 4 510 1,043 184 1,741
Reclassifications – (101) – 101 – –
Disposals	 (7 ,859)	 –	 (90)	 (303)	 (167)	 (8,419)
A t	1	 January	2014	 11,842	 3,307	 3,216	 8,846	 15,934	 43, 145
A dditions	 –	 69	 13 7	 1,558	 43 2	 2, 19 7
Disposals – – – (42) – (42)
At 31 December 2014 11,842 3,376 3,353 10,363 16,366 45,300
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2013 	 6,7 09	 165	 2,2 48	 1,53 1	 14,294	 2 4,947
Depr eciation	char ge	 for	 the	 y ear	 35	 –	 95	 1,506	 654	 2,290
Impairment charge for the year – – 152 – – 152
Disposals	 (4,359)	 –	 (90)	 (303)	 (167)	 (4,919)
At 1 January 2014 2,385 165 2,405 2,734 14,781 22,470
Depreciation charge for the year 35 – 104 1,826 486 2,451
Impairment	char ge	 for	 the	 y ear	 –	 2,907	 –	 –	 –	 2,907
Disposals – – – (26) – (26)
At 31 December 2014 	 2,420	 3,07 2	 2,509	 4,534	 15,267	 27 ,802
Net book amount
At 31 December 2014 9,422 304 844 5,829 1,099 17,498
A t	3 1	December	2013	 9,457	 3, 142	 811	 6, 112	 1, 153	 20,675
A t	1	 January	2013	 12,992	 3,239	 548	 6,47 4	 1,623	 2 4,87 6
68     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     69
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
 
14  Property, plant and equipment continued
The depreciation charge for the year is included in the income statement within administrative expenses before exceptional items (note 5).
Freehold and leasehold land were valued at 31 December 2012 by a third-party valuer. Management believes these to be appropriate  
on the basis that there have not been decreases in land values in the areas since. The Group has provided for the carrying costs on the  
current design development costs, which were historically spent on its Manchester site as it re-evaluates the model appropriate for  
that market. This impairment to assets under construction has resulted in an exceptional charge of £2.8 million in the profit and loss  
account. In addition, assets under construction of £125,000 was provided for in relation to the Birmingham site, as the Group  
implements new plans for Birmingham.
Assets held under finance leases have the following net book amounts:
      2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
Leasehold land     4,272 4,307
Clinical equipment     4,686 5,406
Furniture, fittings and office equipment      469 	 649
     9,427 10,362
The additions during the year comprise lease agreements with Shawbrooke Bank Limited and Close Leasing Limited to finance  
the purchase of clinical equipment at CircleReading and CircleNottingham hospitals. 
Freehold and leasehold land can be split into the following net book amounts:
      2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
Freehold     5,150 5,150
Leasehold      4,272 4,307
     9,422 	 9,457 15  Provision for joint venture deficit
      2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
At 1 January      (4,685) 	 (2,947)
Increase in the year     (130) (1,738)
Gain on wind-up of activities in HP Bath     4,815 –
At 31 December     – (4,685)
Group’s share of net liabilities of joint venture (38.7%)      
Non-current assets     – 11,455
Current assets      –    1,024
     – 	 12,479
Current liabilities     – (1,058)
Non-current liabilities     – (16,106)
     – (17,164)
Group’s share of net liabilities     – (4,685)
      
Group’s share of results of joint venture (38.7%)    
Revenue     716 1,420
Operating expenses     (21) (2,142)
Finance costs     (825) (1,016)
Group’s share of loss after tax of joint venture     (130) (1,738)
During 2014, the activities of HP Bath were wound up. For a more detailed explanation, please refer to note 6.
70     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     71
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
 
16  Inventories
      2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
Consumables     1,806 1,645
At 31 December 2014, an amount of £nil (2013: nil) has been provided against the gross cost of inventories.  
The	cost	 of	in v entories	r ecognised	as	an	expense	in	 the	 y ear	is	£13,096,000	(2013:	£10,334,000).	
17  Trade and other receivables
 Current Non-current
    2014 2013 2014 2013 
   Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade receivables   10,906 5,232 – –
Less: allowance for impairment of trade receivables   (187) (260) – –
Net trade receivables   10,719 	 4,9 7 2	 – –
Prepayments and accrued income   4,843 	 3,981	 2,500 140
Other receivables   1,108 3,645 – 3,700
Amounts owed by joint venture   32 13 1,586 – –
   16,683 14,184 2,500 3,840
The directors consider the carrying amount of trade and other receivables to approximate to their fair value. Long-term receivables  
ar e	 discounted	 wher e	 the	 time	 value	 of	money	is	consider ed	 to	be	material,	using	a	risk -adjusted	post -tax	 discount	rate	 of	10%.
Following the sale of the freehold interest in the Bath hospital land, HP Bath entered into a new rent deposit deed with CircleBath,  
which increased the rental deposit to £2,500,000 (2013: £1,586,000). 
The Group has recharged expenses and accrued interest to HP Bath to give a total receivable of £1,621,000 at 31 December 2014  
(2013: £1,615,000). This was fully impaired in the previous year, as the balance was not considered to be recoverable. 72     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     73
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
 
17  Trade and other receivables continued
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 
      2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
At 1 January     260 131
(Release)/increase in the year     (73) 	 129
At 31 December     187 260
At 31 December, the ageing analysis of trade receivables was as follows:
      2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
Not past due     3,660 2,352
Past due 0–30 days, but not impaired     4,493 1,105
Past due 31–60 days, but not impaired     748 487
Past due by more than 60 days, but not impaired     1,818 1,028
     10,719 	 4,9 7 2
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and credit terms are generally 30 days.  
The above receivables are overdue, but not impaired, because management believes they are fully recoverable.
The movement in amounts recoverable on contracts is as follows:
      2014 2013 
     Note £’000 £’000
At 1 January     – 1,181
Recognised in income statement    5 – (1,181)
At 31 December     – –
Amounts recoverable on contracts are extinguished following the end of the previous Nottingham contract in June 2013.
18  Cash and cash equivalents
      2014 2013 
     Note £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents     24,496 	 12,39 7
Less restricted balances
–  Letter of credit – GE Capital Equipment Finance Limited (‘GE’)   a – (1,800)
–  Hinchingbrooke deposit    b – (2,000)
Restricted cash     – (3,800)
Unrestricted cash and cash equivalents     24,496 	 8,59 7
The directors consider the carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents approximate to their fair value.    
There is no unrestricted cash in 2014. Included in the 2013 Group cash balance are the following amounts which were not freely  
available to the Group:
a  As part of the contractual agreement with GE to provide operating leases to CircleBath, Circle International plc had to provide  
a counter indemnity to Barclays by way of a fixed charge over a deposit which was released at the end of 2014 when the operating  
leases expired (2013: £1,800,000 on deposit).      
b  In July 2014, an amount of £2,000,000 was released from escrow in Circle Hinchingbrooke Limited, in accordance with the terms  
of the Hinchingbrooke framework agreement.
19  Trade and other payables
 Current Non-current
    2014 2013 2014 2013 
   Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade payables   6,666 5,240 – –
Deferred income   787 380 – –
Accruals    12,319 5,318 2,074 	 2, 169
Social security and other taxation   1,319 655 – –
Amounts owed to joint venture   32 – 34 – –
Amounts owed to other related parties   32 165 	 191	 – –
   21,256 11,818 2,074 	 2, 169
Trade payables, accruals and amounts owed to joint ventures and other related parties are unsecured and interest free. 
The directors consider the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximate to their fair value. Long-term payables  
have been discounted where the time value of money is considered to be material.     
       20  Loans and other borrowings
 Current Non-current
    2014 2013 2014 2013 
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Secured finance leases (i)   1,922 1,547 8,869 	 9,982
   1,922 1,547 8,869 	 9,982
i Finance leases
Finance leases comprise various lease agreements with Close Leasing Limited, Shawbrooke Bank Limited and GE, to finance the purchase  
of IT assets, fixtures, fittings and furniture, and medical equipment, for the commissioning of CircleReading hospital and the 125-year lease  
for land in Birmingham entered into with Pebble Mill Investments Limited (‘Pebble Mill’) in November 2011. In addition, there are various lease 
agreements for medical equipment for CircleBath hospital with Shawbrooke Bank Limited. At the end of 2014, CircleNottingham also signed 
three new finance leases for medical equipment with GE.
      2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
Gross finance lease liabilities – minimum lease payments
Falling due:
–  No later than one year     2,711 2,450
–  Later than one year and no later than five years     5,837 7,268
–  Later than five years     9,691 	 10,059
     18,239 	 19,777
Future finance charges on finance leases     (7,448) (8,248)
     10,791 	 11,529
The breakdown of the present value of finance leases
Falling due:      
–  No later than one year     1,922 1,547
–  Later than one year and no later than five years     4,028 5,261
–  Later than five years     4,841 4,721
     10,791 	 11,529
74     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     75
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
 
20  Loans and other borrowings continued
The Group signed a finance lease commitment with GE on 11 June 2012 for a total facility of £5,000,000 to lease medical equipment over a  
five-year period. On 13 July 2012, the Group signed a finance lease commitment with Close Leasing Limited for a total facility of £2,000,000  
to lease IT equipment and fixtures, fittings and furniture over a five-year period.
In August 2014, CircleReading signed a finance lease commitment for a facility of £60,000 over a five-year period. In addition, in September 
2014, the Group signed a finance lease commitment with GE Capital Equipment Limited for a total facility of £813,000 to lease medical 
equipment at CircleNottingham over a three-year period. 
The Pebble Mill site lease liabilities are unsecured, but are guaranteed by Circle Holdings plc. The Group can terminate the lease on 1 August 
2046 or 1 August 2071, by giving at least six months’ written notice to the landlord. In addition, the Group has two opportunities to reduce 
the annual rent: the first buy-down right is within a period of five years from the date of the lease; and the second buy-down right is within  
a period of six months prior to the first lease break date in 2046. Both instances require payment of a premium calculated in accordance  
with a formula set out in the lease and adjusted using the RPI index. There are no covenants or restrictions on the Group imposed by this 
lease,	and	 ther e	ar e	no	contingent	r ents.	 The	 value	 of	 the	 finance	lease	cr editor	is	£4,946,000	(2013:	£4,994,000).	
iv Maturity profile 
Under the terms of the loans, the amounts fall due as follows:
    Between Between Greater 
   Less than one to two two to three than four 
   one year years years years Total 
2014   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Finance	leases	 	 1,922	 2,011	 1,967	 4,891	 10,791
  1,922 2,011 1,967 4,891 10,791
    Between Between Greater 
   Less than one to two two to three than four 
   one year years years years Total 
2013   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Finance	leases	 	 1,547	 1,7 07	 1,82 4	 6,45 1	 11,529
  1,547 1,707 1,824 6,451 11,529 76     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     77
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
 
21  Provisions for other liabilities and charges
      2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
Current     – 605
Non-current     50 50
     50 655
      Under- 
     Onerous declared 
    Dilapidations leases VAT Total 
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2013   672 485 1,500 2,657
Charged/(released) to the income statement   (238) (341) 115 (464)
Utilised	 during	 the	 y ear	 	 	 (275)	 (144)	 (1, 119)	 (1,538)
A t	1	 January	2014	 	 	 159	 –	 496	 655
(Released)/charge to the income statement   – – (226) (226)
Utilised	 during	 the	 y ear	 	 	 (109)	 –	 (27 0)	 (3 79)
At 31 December 2014   50 – – 50
Dilapidations
This provision relates to the expected cost of returning various leased properties to their former state when the Group exits the leases.
Under-declared VAT
Management performed a review of the VAT accounting within the Group, in consultation with HMRC. HMRC completed their assessment  
of	management ’ s	position	 during	2014.	P enalties	and	 fines	 for	under -declar ed	 V A T	amounted	 to	£1,389,000,	all	 of	 which	hav e	now	been	
paid. The surplus provision of £226,000 was released during the year.
22  Share capital, share premium and other reserves
Authorised
      2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
Ordinary shares of £0.02 each     6,500 5,000
Convertible shares (18 months) of £0.02 each     250,000 –
Convertible shares (36 months) of £0.02 each     310,000 –
     566,500 5,000
      Number Number
Ordinary shares of £0.02 each     325,000,000 250,000,000
Convertible shares (18 months) of £0.02 each     12,500,000 –
Convertible shares (36 months) of £0.02 each     15,500,000 –
     353,000,000 250,000,000
Allotted and fully paid up
    Share Share Treasury Other   
   Shares capital premium shares reserves Total 
   Number £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Ordinary shares
A t	1	 January	2013	 	 	 130,7 06,657	 2,6 14	 193, 145	 –	 22, 182	 217 ,941
Shares issued –  
20 June 2013 (net of costs)  £0.02 78,465 2 – – – 2
A t	1	 January	2014	 	 	 130,7 85, 122	 2,6 16	 193, 145	 –	 22, 182	 217 ,943
Fundraise –  
9	 January	2014	(net	 of	costs)	 £0.02 55,000,000 1,100 25,120 – – 26,220
Shares issued –  
16 June 2014 (net of costs)  £0.02 	 62,7 69	 1	 –	 –	 –	 1
Project Reset – ordinary shares  
issued – 8 December 2014  
(net of costs)  £0.02 	 38,855,367	 777	 7 ,560	 (9,587)	 –	 (1,250)
Project Reset – convertible  
shares issued – 8 December 2014  
(net of costs)  £0.02 	 23,093,930	 462	 10,9 7 0	 –	 –	 11,43 2
At 31 December 2014   247,797,188 4,956 236,795 (9,587) 22,182 254,346 22  Share capital, share premium and other reserves continued
The following table details the movement in ordinary share capital in the year ending 31 December 2013 by major shareholder.
     At 20 June Additional At 
     1 January 2013 purchases/ 31 December 
     2013 (at £0.02 each) (sales) 2013 
     Number Number Number Number
Lansdowne	P artners	 	 	 3 7 ,967 ,008	 –	 –	 3 7 ,967 ,008
In v esco	P erpetual	 	 	 30,368,920	 –	 –	 30,368,920
Odey	 Asset	Management	 	 	 27 ,87 8,7 87	 –	 (335,906)	 27 ,542,881
Balderton Capital   12,756,534 – – 12,756,534
BlueCr est	 Capital	Management	 	 	 9,252,685	 –	 –	 9,252,685
BlackR ock		 	 	 7 , 17 8,555	 –	 (181,000)	 6,99 7 ,555
Polar Capital   – – 1,000,000 1,000,000
Health Trust   3,136,180 – (3,136,180) –
Other	 	 	 2, 167 ,988	 7 8,465	 2,653,086	 4,899,539
   130,706,657 78,465 – 130,785,122
23  Non-controlling interest
       £’000
At 1 January 2013      (27,088)
Effect of shares vesting in period      (7,310)
Non-controlling interest’s share of losses      (8,552)
A t	1	 January	2014	 	 	 	 	 	 (42,950)
Effect	 of	shar es	 v esting	in	period	 	 	 	 	 	 (6,439)
Non-controlling interest’s share of losses      (12,100)
Impact	 of	Pr oject	R eset	 	 	 	 	 	 6 1,489
As at 31 December 2014      –
Project Reset
Circle Health Limited (which has an authorised share capital of 100,000 ordinary shares of £0.10 nominal value that give equal rights  
to 	 the 	 v oting, 	 dividend 	 and 	 capital 	 of 	 the 	 compan y), 	 was 	 50. 1% 	 owned 	 b y 	 Cir cle 	 International 	 plc 	 and 	 49.9% 	 owned 	 b y 	 CPL. 	 F ollowing	 
the 	 completion 	 of 	 Pr oject 	 R eset, 	 CPL 	 is 	 now 	 a 	 100% 	 owned 	 subsidiary 	 of 	 Cir cle 	 Holdings 	 plc. 	 Ther efor e, 	 as 	 at 	 3 1 	 December 	 2014, 	 ther e	 
is no interest outside the Group. Project Reset is explained in note 6. 
22  Share capital, share premium and other reserves continued
Fundraise
On	9	 January	2014,	 the	 Gr oup	issued,	at	nominal	 value,	55,000,000	 or dinary	shar es	 of	£0.02	each	in	 the	capital	 of	 the	 C ompan y	 
as part of the equity raise. 
Transaction costs incurred during the 2014 equity raise totalled £1,280,000, all of which have been taken to share premium. 
Shares awarded to non-executive directors
On	16	 June	2014,	 the	 Gr oup	issued,	at	nominal	 value,	an	aggr egate	 of	62,7 69	 or dinary	shar es	 of	£0.02	each	in	 the	capital	 
of the Company to non-executive directors pursuant to individual share awards. 
Project Reset
Under the terms of Project Reset, the Company issued 38,855,367 ordinary shares of £0.02 each in the Company to the CPBT  
ordinary shares, which are to be used to satisfy options to be granted under the Company’s new share incentivisation plans,  
in accordance with the terms previously approved by the Company’s shareholders. 
In	addition,	 Cir cle	Holdings	plc	issued	23,093,930	con v ertible	shar es	 of	£0.02	each	in	 the	 C ompan y ,	 to	 the	 trustee	 of	 the	 CPB T ,	 
split in two equal tranches, which shall automatically convert after 18 months and 36 months, respectively, into ordinary shares.  
The convertible shares cannot be traded or sold until they have converted into ordinary shares.
The CPBT was also issued with shares in the Company. The Trust is consolidated in the financial statements and, accordingly,  
shares held by the Trust are recognised at cost as a debit to equity in the Treasury share reserve. 
Project Reset transaction costs amounted to £1,250,000, all of which have been set against share premium as costs directly  
attributable to the issuance of shares.
The following table details the movement in share capital (ordinary and convertible) in the year ending 31 December 2014 by  
major shareholder.
   At 9 January 16 June 8 December Additional At 
   1 January 2014 2014 2014 purchases/ 31 December 
   2014 (at £0.02 each) (at £0.02 each) (at £0.02 each) (sales) 2014 
   Number Number Number Number Number Number
Lansdowne	P artners	 	 	 3 7 ,967 ,008	 16,200,000	 –	 –	 –	 54, 167 ,008
In v esco	P erpetual	 	 	 30,368,920	 22,900,000	 –	 –	 –	 53,268,920
Odey	 Asset	Management	 	 	 27 ,542,881	 –	 –	 –	 (95,475)	 27 ,447 ,406
Balderton Capital   12,756,534 4,000,000 – – – 16,756,534
BlueCr est	 Capital	Management	 	 9,252,685	 –	 –	 –	 –	 9,252,685
BlackR ock		 	 	 6,99 7 ,555	 –	 –	 –	 (1,216, 175)	 5,7 81,380
Polar Capital   1,000,000 400,000 – – (400,000) 1,000,000
Cir cle	P artnership	Benefit	 T rust	 	 –	 –	 –	 6 1,949,29 7	 –	 6 1,949,29 7
Henderson   – 5,200,000 – – – 5,200,000
Numis   – 1,150,000 – – (1,150,000) –
Singers   – 150,000 – – (150,000) –
Broker Option   – 5,000,000 – – (5,000,000) –
Other	 	 	 4,899,539	 –	 62,7 69	 –	 8,011,650	 12,9 73,958
	 	 	 130,7 85, 122	 55,000,000	 62,7 69	 6 1,949,29 7	 –	 2 47 ,79 7 , 188
78     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     79
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
  24  Warrants continued
a The cancellation of the warrants issued to Health Trust (Jersey) and Health Trust (Jersey) option pool, and reissue of warrants to  
Health Trust (Jersey) are detailed in note 25.
b	 In	May	2011	after	 the	initial	public	 offering	(‘IPO’),	 the	existing	shar e	 warrants,	 which	consisted	 of	 warrants	issued	in	2008	and	2009	 
to Health Trust (Jersey) and Health Trust (Jersey) option pool, were modified, adjusting both the exercise price and vesting conditions. 
Under the terms of the modification, the existing share warrants were replaced with warrants issued exclusively to Health Trust (Jersey),  
of which Ali Parsa is a beneficiary, and the exercise price was set to the IPO price of £1.52 per new ordinary share issued. The modified 
share warrants do not have any expiry date or any conditions attached. A fair value assessment was completed based on the value of  
the existing warrants prior to IPO, and the fair value of the modified warrants determined using Black-Scholes on a diluted pricing basis 
using the parameters outlined on the next page. The incremental fair value of the modification was recognised on a straight-line basis 
over a 24-month period from May 2011 until May 2013, in line with the revised vesting timetable (1/24 every month from May 2011).
25  Share-based charges
Shares and share warrants are issued to employees, clinicians and external investors who contribute to the success and growth in value  
of the Group. The issuance of these warrants and shares, including the issue of shares to scheme participants and employees, qualifies as 
equity-settled share-based payment transactions, and falls within the scope of IFRS 2, ‘Share-based payment’. The impact on the income 
statement in respect of share-based charges is as follows. Note: there is no charge associated with the transaction where the employees 
subscribe for the shares at full market value:
      2014 2013 
    Note Type £’000 £’000
Issued as part of Project Reset   a Shares 1,105 –
Awarded to non-executive directors   b Shares 14 55
Awarded to Health Trust (Jersey)   c Warrants – 313
Other share-based charges   d Shares 572 –
     1,691 368
24  Warrants
The Group issues warrants which give the holders the right to purchase shares for a specific price at a future date. The warrants are  
treated either as equity instruments and recorded in the warrant reserve, or as financial liabilities and recorded in liabilities, depending  
on certain criteria, as outlined in the Group’s accounting policies. There are no remaining warrants issued as financial liabilities.
Warrants treated as equity instruments
Movements in the warrant reserve during the year are as follows:
      2014 2013 
     Note £’000 £’000
At 1 January      22,703 	 22,390
Share-based charges in respect of warrants issued     25 – 313
At 31 December      22,703 22,703
The following table details all share warrants issued by the Group which are recognised in equity, none of which have been exercised to date:
 Warrant reserve:
      At  At 
  Exercise Original  Revised 1 January Share-based 31 December 
  price warrants Modified warrants 2014 charges 2014 
 Note £ Number Number Number £’000 £’000 £’000
Beneficiary
Warrants issued in 2008
–  Balderton Capital  b £1.52 523,460 – 523,460 4,111 – 4,111
–  Lansdowne Partners b	 £1.52	 99,630	 –	 99,630	 7 83	 –	 7 83
–		 JCAM		 		 £10.3 1	 238,930	 –	 238,930	 1,6 16	 –	 1,6 16
 
Warrants issued in 2009
–  Balderton Capital  b £1.52 172,355 – 172,355 675 – 675
–  Lansdowne Partners b	 £1.52	 17 2,355	 –	 17 2,355	 479	 –	 479
–  BlueCrest Capital  
    Management b	 £1.52	 75,5 10	 –	 75,5 10	 296	 –	 296
Warrants modified in 2011
–  Health Trust (Jersey) a, b £1.52 – 2,340,765 2,340,765 14,743 – 14,743
   1,282,240 2,340,765 3,623,005 22,703 – 22,703
80     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     81
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
  25  Share-based charges continued
Share-based charges reserve
      2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
At 1 January     151 	 96
Share-based charges     1,691 55
At 31 December     1,842 151
d Other share-based charges
 In December 2013, the Company agreed to grant to the Group’s Chief Financial Officer options to subscribe for 2,200,000 ordinary  
shares at an exercise price of £0.02 per ordinary share. This separate incentive arrangement was agreed, given he was not a participant  
of the previous share scheme, nor has he previously received as remuneration any shares or options in the Company since joining in  
2010. The options were granted in December 2014, and a charge of £572,100 was recognised. The options vest in two equal tranches,  
with the first tranche fully vesting on the date of grant. A fair value assessment of the second tranche of share options was completed, 
based on the parameters disclosed below.
Modified share option parameters
Stock price at grant date (1 December 2014)      £0.50
Exercise price      £0.02
Expected volatility
*
	 		 			 50%
Risk -fr ee	inter est	rate	 	 	 	 	 	 5%
Vesting period      One year
Fair value of share option      £0.50
25  Share-based charges continued
a Project Reset
	 Pr oject 	 R eset 	 is 	 explained 	 in 	 note 	 6. 	 Of 	 the 	 total 	 number 	 of 	 CPL 	 shar es 	 which 	 wer e 	 acquir ed 	 b y 	 the 	 Gr oup , 	 5, 118,739 	 wer e 	 partiall y	 
vested. The unvested portion of these shares in CPL were accelerated as part of Project Reset, and exchanged for 2,231,770 Circle  
Holdings plc convertible shares at £0.02 each. A share-based charge of £1,105,000 was recognised to record the incremental fair  
value of shares given to members of the CPL share scheme. The charge was calculated based on the share price on 4 December  
2014, the date of the Project Reset completion.
b Non-executive directors
 The Group operates an equity-settled, share-based compensation plan for its non-executive directors. The entity receives services  
from these directors as consideration for shares in the Group. The fair value of the services received in exchange for the grant  
of the awards is recognised as an expense. The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the  
awards granted. 
 Non-market performance and service conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to  
vest. The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions  
are to be satisfied. At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected  
to vest, based on the non-market vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income 
statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. When the vesting conditions are met, the company issues new shares. The 
proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium.
c Health Trust (Jersey)
 In May 2011, new share warrants were issued exclusively to Health Trust (Jersey), of which Ali Parsa is a beneficiary, replacing the  
share warrants previously issued to Health Trust (Jersey) and Health Trust (Jersey) option pool. Under the terms of the new warrants,  
the exercise price was set to the IPO price of £1.52 per new ordinary share issued. The 2,340,765 share warrants vested over a 24-month 
period from May 2011 until May 2013, and were exercisable from the date they vest (1/24 every month from May 2011) and do not have 
any expiry date. A fair value assessment was completed based on the value of the existing warrants prior to cancellation, and the fair 
value of new warrants determined using Black-Scholes on a diluted pricing basis using the parameters outlined below.
Modified warrant issue parameters (reflecting five-for-one share split)
Stock price      £1.52
Exercise price      £1.52
Expected volatility
*
	 		 			 50%
Risk -fr ee	inter est	rate	 	 	 	 	 	 5%
Warrant life
**
      10 years
Fair value of warrant      £1.02
The incremental increase in the fair value was assessed at £1,478,000 and was charged to the income statement over the remaining  
vesting period, along with the residual charge relating to the fair value at the grant date of the initial warrants. The share-based charge 
recognised in the income statement for the year to 31 December 2014 is £nil (2013: £313,000). There were no new warrant issues  
qualifying as share-based charges during 2014 (2013: £nil), and none of the warrants were exercised in 2014 (2013: £nil).
82     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     83
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
 
* The historical volatility is assumed to be indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
** The life of the warrant is based on the expected term and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.  29  Net cash outflow from operating activities
      2014 2013 
     Note £’000 £’000
Loss before taxation     (20,155) (15,230)
Provision for joint venture deficit     130 1,738
Exceptional finance items     625 (1,113)
Finance costs     911 2,774
Finance income     (181) (2,035)
Amortisation of intangible assets    13 451 443
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment    14 2,451 	 2,290
Charge recognised in respect of amounts recoverable under contract   17 – 1,181
Loss on sale of tangible fixed assets     16 –
Impairment of property, plant and equipment    14 2,907 152
Impairment of intangible assets    13 81 –
Share-based charges in respect of warrants issued     25 – 313
Share-based charges    25 1,691 55
Deconsolidation of Health Properties Edinburgh     – (4,384)
Revaluation of Birmingham finance lease payments     – 136
Gain on the wind-up of joint venture activities     (4,750) –
Provision for VAT     21 (226) 115
Decrease in provision for onerous leases     21 – 	 (579)
Provision of debtor with HP Bath     – 40
Movements in working capital:
–  Increase in inventories      (161) (347)
–  Increase in trade and other receivables     (1,159) (2,804)
–  Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables     9,387 	 (3,229)
–  Decrease in provisions     (379) (1,578)
Net cash outflow from operating activities     (8,361) (22,062)
26  Capital commitments
At 31 December 2014, the Group had capital commitments as follows:
      2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
Contracted for but not provided in these financial statements    –	 97
27  Pension commitments
The Group participates in two personal defined contribution pension schemes for its employees. The assets of the schemes are held 
separatel y 	 fr om 	 those 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 in 	 independentl y 	 administer ed 	 funds. 	 The 	 contributions 	 b y 	 the 	 Gr oup 	 for 	 the 	 y ear 	 wer e 	 £1,492,000	 
(2013: £1,184,000). As at 31 December 2014, outstanding contributions totalled £140,000 (2013: £104,000).
28  Operating lease commitments
The Group has entered into various non-cancellable operating leases of equipment, land and buildings with varying terms, escalation  
clauses and renewal rights. The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
 Plant and machinery Land and buildings
    2014 2013 2014 2013 
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
No later than one year     730 1,357 9,985 	 11,09 7
Later than one year and no later than five years   1,272 1,705 37,995 44,051
Later than five years     – – 151,493 	 187 ,779
     2,002 3,062 199,473 	 2 42,927
On 1 July 2014, the Group amended an existing operating lease in respect of CircleBath hospital for an initial annual rent of  
£2,500,000 	 per 	 y ear 	 (2013: 	 £3,23 2,000 	 per 	 annum 	 with 	 RPI 	 incr eases). 	 The 	 lease 	 is 	 for 	 15 	 y ears 	 and 	 is 	 set 	 to 	 expir e 	 on 	 30 	 June 	 2029.
84     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     85
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
  30  Reconciliation and analysis of net debt continued
       Other At 
    At   non-cash 31 December 
    1 January Cash flow Reclassifications changes 2014 
2013    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
Liquid resources
Unr estricted 	 cash	 	 	 	 3 2,929	 (2 4,33 2)	 –	 –	 8,597
Restricted cash     5,100 (1,300) – – 3,800
Debt due within one year 
AIB    (7,380) – – 7,380 –
Barclays    (41,768) 430 – 41,338 –
Loan notes    (348) 366 – (18) –
Finance 	 leases	 	 	 	 (1,340)	 1,471	 (1,409)	 (269)	 (1,547)
 
Debt due after one year 
Finance 	 leases	 	 	 	 (10,664)	 –	 1,409	 (7 27)	 (9,982)
Net debt    (23,471) (23,365) – 47,704 868
31  Financial risk management
i Financial risk factors
The Group’s operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and interest rate  
risk. The Group seeks to limit the adverse effects of these risks by monitoring levels of debt finance and the related finance costs,  
and by matching the risks of the financing with the risks and return profiles of the assets. The risks are monitored by management  
throughout the year via monthly reviews of operational performance, cash flows, levels of individual debt instruments and overall  
debt levels.
Classes of financial instruments
The Group’s financial instruments comprise financial assets such as cash, short-term deposits, trade and other receivables, and  
financial liabilities, such as bank loans, loan notes, and trade and other payables. In addition, the Group was party to interest rate  
swaps to manage the Group’s interest rate risks arising from the Group’s sources of finance. These swaps have all expired during  
the year.
 
86     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     87
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
30  Reconciliation and analysis of net debt
      2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
Increase/(decrease) in unrestricted cash in the year     15,899 (24,332)
Decrease in restricted cash in the year     (3,800) (1,300)
Repayment of borrowings     – 430
Repayment of loan notes     – 366
Repayment of finance lease     1,660 1,471
Movement in net debt from cash flow     13,759 (23,365)
Other non-cash movements     922 47,704
Movement in net debt      12,837 	 2 4,339
Net debt at 1 January     868 (23,471)
Net debt at 31 December     13,705 868
       Other At 
    At   non-cash 31 December 
    1 January Cash flow Reclassifications changes 2014 
2014    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
Liquid resources
Unr estricted	cash	 	 	 	 8,59 7	 15,899	 –	 –	 24,496
Restricted cash     3,800 (3,800) – – –
Debt due within one year
AIB    – – – – –
Barclays    – – – – –
Loan notes    – – – – –
Finance leases    (1,547) 1,660 (1,801) (234) (1,922)
Debt due after one year
Finance	leases	 	 	 	 (9,982)	 –	 1,801	 (688)	 (8,869)
Net debt 	 	 	 	 868	 13,759	 –	 (922)	 13,705 31  Financial risk management continued
 1) Interest rate risk
  Financial instruments affected by interest rate risk include short-term deposits. The Group is primarily sensitive to changes in UK  
 interest rates. This affects future cash flows from short-term cash deposits held. As at 31 December 2014, the Group, excluding the  
 joint venture, does not hold any long-term loans. Previously, the Group has managed this risk, where significant, by holding long-term  
 loans and entering into interest rate swaps in order to fix the interest payable on these. These swaps have now all expired. The Group  
 also manages the interest rate risk through financing assets through finance leases which have fixed rates of interest, rather than  
 through loans. 
  The following table summarises the fixed and variable rate loans:
       Interest 
     Variable Fixed free Total 
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
At 31 December 2014 
Loans	and	 other	borr owings	 	 	 –	 10,791	 –	 10,791
At 31 December 2013
Loans	and	 other	borr owings	 	 	 –	 11,529	 –	 11,529
 2) Other price risks
  The Group has a number of long-term contracts containing fixed indexation provisions. The Group generally seeks to price  
 contracts at levels that take account of increasing prices. As the volume of private patients is anticipated to increase, the  
 Group will be increasingly subject to pricing changes from private insurance companies.
  The new Bedford MSK contract operates under a capitated revenue budget. The underlying principle assumes that the service  
 can be run more efficiently, improving the patient experience and reducing operational costs. Nevertheless, the Group bears  
 the risk of rising operational prices as the baseline revenue is fixed, subject to local demographic or service portfolio changes.
b Credit risk
 Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counter-party to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual 
obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and cash deposits, with their maximum exposure being 
represented by their carrying amount.
 The Group has policies with customers that require upfront payment, where appropriate. Credit control procedures are designed to 
ensure that invoiced revenue is collected according to agreed terms, that policies exist to limit exposure to any one party, and ensure 
approved credit limits are reviewed regularly. These all help to eliminate significant concentrations of credit risk.
 Most revenues arise from insured patients’ business and the NHS. Insured patients give rise to trade receivables which are mainly due  
from large insurance institutions, who have high credit worthiness. The remainder of revenues arise from individual self-pay patients.
 When utilising bank accounts and cash deposits, the Group transacts with counterparties who have sound credit profiles. Such 
counterparties are primarily large, highly-rated financial institutions. In relation to financial institutions, the Group allocates a credit  
limit based on external credit ratings. The counterparty’s total outstanding transactions with the Group, including bank accounts and  
cash deposits, must not exceed limits agreed by the Board of Directors.
 
88     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     89
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
31  Financial risk management continued
The 	 following 	 tables 	 classify 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 financial 	 instruments 	 accor ding 	 to 	 IAS 	 39, 	 ‘Financial 	 instruments; 	 r ecognition 	 and 	 measur ement’ :
      Fair value   
     Loans and through profit Amortised  
     receivables and loss cost Total 
    Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
As at 31 December 2014 
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables    17 11,840  – – 11,840 
Cash and cash equivalents     18 	 2 4,496		 –	 –	 2 4,496	
Total financial assets     36,336 – – 36,336
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables    19  – – (6,831) (6,831)
Finance lease liabilities     20 	 –	 –	 (10,791)	 (10,791)
Total financial liabilities     – – (17,622) (17,622)
      Fair value   
     Loans and through profit Amortised  
     receivables and loss cost Total 
    Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
As at 31 December 2013 
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables    17 10,203  – – 10,203 
Cash and cash equivalents     18 	 12,39 7		 –	 –	 12,39 7	
Total financial assets     22,600 – – 22,600
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables    19  – – (5,465) (5,465)
Finance lease liabilities     20 	 –	 –	 (11,529)	 (11,529)
Total financial liabilities     – – (16,994) (16,994)
a Market risk
 Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as interest rates or other price risks, and will affect the income from or the value  
of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable  
parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
 The Group is primarily impacted by interest rate risk and other price risks which are outlined below: 31  Financial risk management continued
c Liquidity risk
 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s  
approach to liquidity is to manage short and long-term borrowings to ensure that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet  
its liabilities when due, without incurring unacceptable losses or risk damaging the Group’s reputation.
 This is achieved by robustly managing cash generation across its operations, by applying cash collection targets throughout the  
Group, and by managing liquidity risk via long-term debt and equity funding from shareholders.
 The Group has received strong support from its shareholders, who have provided equity cash funding when necessary to fund the  
Group’s activities. These funds have been utilised to support the business plans of the Group in accordance with the Group’s financial 
projections, which are updated on a regular basis. 
 The table below analyses the Group’s non-derivative and derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings, based  
on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contract maturity date. The amounts included in the table are the  
contractual undiscounted cash flows:
    Between Between Between Between  
   Less than one to two to three to four to Over 
   one year two years three years four years five years five years 
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
At 31 December 2014 
Trade and other payables   (6,831) – – – – –
Finance	lease	 	 	 (2,710)	 (2,649)	 (2,295)	 (5 16)	 (3 7 8)	 (9,691)
Net outflows   (9,541) (2,649) (2,295) (516) (378) (9,691) 
At 31 December 2013 
Trade and other payables   (5,465) – – – – –
Finance	leases		 	 	 (2,450)	 (2,450)	 (2,390)	 (2,033)	 (395)	 (10,059)
Net outflows   (7 ,915) (2,450) (2,390) (2,033) (395) (10,059)
Included in the previous tables are the cash flows in respect of the Birmingham lease. As outlined in note 20(iii), there are various  
buy-down options over the term of the lease, and management’s intention has been reflected in the cash flows set out above.
ii Capital risk management
The primary objective of the Group’s management of debt and equity is to ensure the continued growth of the business, including  
the financing of new hospitals, equipment, start-up costs, and Head Office overheads, in order to provide returns for the Group  
shareholders and other stakeholders. The Group raises financing, when needed, through a combination of equity and debt.
Objectives are set out at the beginning of each year, in line with the imposed requirements and covenants of the shareholder agreements. 
Covenants on the CircleBath rental agreement with MPT are tested monthly. No long-term debt exists elsewhere in the Group.
32  Related party transactions
Subsidiaries and joint ventures
Details	 of	 the	in v estments	in	 which	 the	 Gr oup	holds	20%	 or	mor e	 of	 the	nominal	 value	 of	an y	class	 of	shar e	capital	and	 quasi-subsidiaries	 
are as follows:
   Proportion of  
Name of company Holding Nature of business voting rights held Country of incorporation 
Cir cle	International	plc		 Or dinary	shar es	 Holding	and	management	 100%	 United	Kingdom
Health	Pr operties	Limited		 Or dinary	shar es	 Holding	and	management	 100%	 Jersey
Health Estates Managers Limited Ordinary shares Fund services (JFSC
*
	r egister ed)		 100%	 Jersey
Health	 Capital	Limited		 Or dinary	shar es	 Holding	and	management	 100%	 United	Kingdom
Cir cle	Health	Limited	 Or dinary	shar es	 Holding	and	management	 100%	 United	Kingdom
Nations	Healthcar e	Limited	 ‘ A ’	 or dinary	shar es	 Holding	and	management	 100%	 United	Kingdom
CircleNottingham Limited  ‘C’ preferred shares Holding and management n/a United Kingdom
Cir cleNottingham	Limited		 Or dinary	shar es	 Medical	practice	services	 100%	 United	Kingdom
Cir cle	(W elbeck)	Limited	 Or dinary	shar es	 Finance	compan y	 100%	 United	Kingdom
Circle (Welbeck) Limited Preference shares Finance company n/a United Kingdom
Cir cle	Hospital	(Bath)	Limited	 Or dinary	shar es	 Medical	practice	services	 100%	 United	Kingdom
Cir cle	Hospital	(R eading)	Limited	 Or dinary	shar es	 Medical	practice	services	 100%	 United	Kingdom
Cir cle	Hinchingbr ook e	Limited	 Or dinary	shar es	 Pr ofessional	services	 100%	 United	Kingdom
Cir cle	 Clinical	 Solutions	Limited		 Or dinary	shar es	 Pr operty	 dev elopment	 100%	 United	Kingdom
Cir cle	Birmingham	Limited	 Or dinary	shar es	 Pr operty	 dev elopment	 100%	 United	Kingdom
H e a l t h 	 P r o p e r t i e s 	 M a n a g e m e n t 	 L i m i t e d 	 Or dinary	shar es	 Pr operty	 dev elopment	 100%	 United	Kingdom
Health Properties (Bath) Limited
**
 ‘A’ and ‘B’  Property ownership 
	 or dinary	shar es	 and	management	 38.7%	 Jersey
Health	Pr operties		 Or dinary	shar es	 Pr operty	 ownership	 100%	 Jersey 
(South Manchester) Limited  and development 
Cir cle	P artnership	Limited	 Or dinary	shar es	 Emplo y ee	shar e	 ownership	plan	 100%	 British	 Vir gin	Islands
 
90     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     91
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
* Jersey Financial Services Commission.
** Subsidiary held indirectly. 32  Related party transactions continued
Trading transactions
During the year, the Group entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with other related parties. Transactions entered  
into and trading balances outstanding are as follows:
      2014  2013 
     Amounts Amounts Amounts Amounts 
     owed by owed to owed by owed to 
     related party related party related party related party 
    Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
HP Bath    a 13 – 1,586 (34)
Stonehage Fund Services Limited (‘Stonehage’)  b – – – –
Capita    c – (1) – (26)
Hinchingbrooke Health Care NHS Trust    d 4,836 (164) 	 4,095	 (165)
     4,849 (165) 5,681 (225)
a Health Properties (Bath) Limited
 HP Bath is a joint venture of the Group (note 15) which owned the Bath hospital that was sold during 2014. 
 The Group has advanced £1,200,000 (2013: £1,200,000) to HP Bath by way of a shareholder loan which is unsecured and payable  
on demand. In addition, the Group has recharged expenses and accrued interest to HP Bath to give a total receivable of £1,621,000  
at 31 December 2014 (2013: £1,615,000). The prior year balance was fully impaired in the previous year, as the balance was not  
considered to be recoverable.
 An amount of £13,000 remains payable to the Group at 31 December 2014 (2013: £34,000). 
b Stonehage Fund Services Limited
 Stonehage, a management and fiduciary services company based in Jersey, has been appointed as the manager of the wholly owned 
subsidiary Health Estates Managers Limited. A number of directors of subsidiary companies who served during 2014 were also employed  
by the ultimate controlling company of Stonehage or a company connected with it. In total, Stonehage was paid £30,000 (2013: 
£40,000) for management and fiduciary services provided to companies within the Group. The amount outstanding at 31 December  
2014 was £nil (2013: £nil). Ian Crosby, a director of Stonehage, is also a director of the corporate trustee of Health Trust (Jersey)  
and of Health Estates Limited.
c Capita
	 During	2014,	 the	 Gr oup	 was	char ged	£96,000	(2013:	£113,000)	b y	 Capita	 for	 fiduciary	services	pr o vided	 to	companies	 within	 
the Group during the year. The amount outstanding at 31 December 2014 was £nil (2013: £26,000). 
 The Capita Group also provided IT data hosting services during the year. The Group was charged £540,000 (2013: £555,000)  
for these services provided during the year. The amount outstanding at 31 December 2014 was £1,750 (2013: £nil).
32  Related party transactions continued
d Hinchingbrooke Health Care NHS Trust
 During the year, the Group has provided for a further £164,000 working capital contribution to the Trust, which has resulted in an  
aggregate £5 million receivable at the year-end. In light of the Group’s announcement of its intention to terminate the contract,  
the aggregate working capital contributions of £5 million are not recoverable and have been fully impaired. In 2014, services to the  
value of £233,620 (2013: £145,000) have been recharged from CircleHealth to Hinchingbrooke, mainly relating to staff time for the 
provision of specialist services, in accordance with the project agreement. In addition, as at 31 December 2014, Circle Clinical Solutions  
Limited (operating company of Bedford MSK contract) had a trade creditor balance with Hinchingbrooke of £352,000 (2013: nil)  
for the provision of clinical treatments.
e Health Trust (Jersey)
 Health Trust (Jersey) also holds 2,340,765 warrants in the Company (note 25). 
	 In	2014,	Health	 T rust	( Jersey)	held	5,296,795	shar es	(2013:	5,066,642)	 of	 CPL	pursuant	 to	shar e	 transfer	agr eements	 dated	 
15 March 2011 and 24 May 2011, respectively, which provide for the issue of CPL shares to Health Trust (Jersey) in an amount  
equal 	 to 	 an 	 aggr egate 	 10% 	 of 	 the 	 issued 	 shar e 	 capital 	 of 	 CPL 	 up 	 until 	 the 	 point 	 of 	 Pr oject 	 R eset . 	 Howev er , 	 following 	 the 	 completion	 
of 	 Pr oject 	 R eset 	 on 	 4 	 December 	 2014, 	 Health 	 T rust 	 ( Jersey)’ s 	 shar eholding 	 in 	 CPL 	 was 	 ex changed 	 for 	 2,309,402 	 con v ertible 	 shar es	 
in 	 Cir cle 	 Holdings 	 plc. 	 The 	 pr evious 	 agr eement 	 for 	 Health 	 T rust 	 ( Jersey) 	 to 	 own 	 an 	 amount 	 equal 	 to 	 an 	 aggr egate 	 10% 	 of 	 the 	 issued	 
share capital of CPL has now extinguished.
The following are related parties by virtue of their significant shareholding. Notes 23 and 25 provide further details:
        Value of 
      Number of Percentage warrants held 
      shares held shareholding £ 
Balderton	 Capital	 	 	 	 16,756,534	 6.8%	 4,7 86
BlueCr est	 Capital	Management	 	 	 	 9,252,685	 3.7%	 296
In v esco	P erpetual	 	 	 	 53,268,920	 21.5%	 –
Lansdowne	P artners	 	 	 	 54, 167 ,008	 21.9%	 1,262
Odey	 Asset	Management	 	 	 	 27 ,447 ,406	 11. 1%	 –
Cir cle	P artnership	Benefit	 T rust	 	 	 	 6 1,949,29 7	 25%	 –
Tim Bunting and Tony Bromovsky served as non-executive directors of Circle Holdings plc. They are appointees of Balderton Capital and  
Odey Asset Management, respectively. No fees were charged for Mr Bunting’s services to the Group. Mr Bromovsky was paid £17,000 for  
his services rendered in 2014 in respect of his role as a non-executive director. In addition, Kilda Investments Limited, of which Mr Bromovsky  
is a beneficiary, was paid £26,000 for Mr Bromovsky’s services performed in relation to Project Reset; this was outside his capacity as a 
director. Tim Bunting and Tony Bromovsky resigned as non-executive directors of Circle Holdings plc during 2014. 
Other than the above and the equity transactions detailed in notes 23 and 25, there have been no transactions with these related parties.
33  Events after the balance sheet date
In January 2015, Circle announced its intention to terminate the Hinchingbrooke Franchise Agreement. Please refer to the Directors’ report  
for a detailed overview. 
 
92     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     93
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued  
94     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     95
Independent auditors’ report
To the members of Circle Holdings plc
Report on the company  
financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, Circle Holdings plc’s 
Company financial statements (the 
‘financial statements’):
•	 giv e	a	 true	and	 fair	 view	 of	 the	state	 
of the company’s affairs as at 31 
December 2014;
•	 hav e 	 been 	 pr operl y 	 pr epar ed 	 in 	 accor dance	
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (‘UK GAAP’); and
•	 hav e 	 been 	 pr epar ed 	 in 	 accor dance 	 with	
the requirements of the Companies 
( Jersey)	Law	1991.
What we have audited
Circle Holdings plc’s financial statements 
comprise:
•	 the	 C ompan y	balance	sheet	as	at	 
31 December 2014; and
•	 the	notes	 to	 the	 financial	statements,	
which include a summary of significant 
accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that 
has been applied in the preparation of the 
financial statements is applicable law and 
United Kingdom Accounting Standards  
(UK GAAP).
In applying the financial reporting 
framework, the directors have made a 
number of subjective judgements, for 
example, in respect of significant accounting 
estimates. In making such estimates, they 
have made assumptions and considered 
future events.
Certain disclosures required by the financial 
reporting framework have been presented 
elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather  
than in the notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial 
statements and are identified as audited.
Opinion on other matter 
In our opinion, the information given in the 
Strategic report and the Directors’ report 
for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with 
the financial statements.
Other matters on which we are 
required to report by exception
Adequacy of accounting records and  
information and explanations received
Under	 the	 C ompanies	( Jersey)	Law	1991,	 
we are required to report to you if, in  
our opinion:
•	 we	hav e	not	r eceiv ed	all	 the	information	
and explanations we require for our 
audit; or
•	 pr oper 	 accounting 	 r ecor ds 	 hav e 	 not 	 been	
kept, or returns adequate for our audit 
have not been received from branches 
not visited by us; or
•	 the	 financial	statements	ar e	not	in	
agreement with the accounting records 
and returns; or
•	 we	hav e	no	ex ceptions	 to	r eport	arising	
from this responsibility.
Responsibilities for the financial 
statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those  
of the directors
As explained more fully in the Statement 
of directors’ responsibilities set out on page 
41, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements  
and for being satisfied that they give a  
true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been 
prepared for, and only for, the company’s 
members as a body in accordance with 
Article 113A of the Companies (Jersey) Law 
1991	and	 for	no	 other	purpose.	 W e	 do	not ,	
in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to 
any other person to whom this report is 
shown or into whose hands it may come 
save where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing.
What an audit of financial 
statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance  
with ISAs (UK and Ireland). An audit 
involves obtaining evidence about the 
amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements  
are free from material misstatement, 
whether caused by fraud or error. This 
includes an assessment of: 
•	 whether	 the	accounting	policies	
are appropriate to the Company’s 
circumstances, and have been 
consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; 
•	 the	r easonableness	 of	significant	
accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and 
•	 the	 o v erall	pr esentation	 of	 the	 
financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these  
areas by assessing the directors’ judgements 
against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures 
in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using 
sampling and other auditing techniques, 
to the extent we consider necessary to 
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw 
conclusions. We obtain audit evidence 
through testing the effectiveness of 
controls, substantive procedures, or  
a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the Annual 
Report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited financial statements, 
and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based  
on, or materially inconsistent with,  
the knowledge acquired by us in the  
course of performing the audit. If we 
become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies, we 
consider the implications for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group 
financial statements of Circle Holdings plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Simon O’Brien (Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and  
Recognised Auditor
London
March 2015 96     Circle Holdings plc
        2014 2013 
      Note £’000 £’000
Fixed assets     
Investments      5 – –
Current assets     
Debtors       6 101,785 	 81, 191
Cash at bank and in hand       14,180  2,256
       115,965 83,447
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year    7 (3,075) (568)
Net current assets        112,890 	 82,879
Total assets less current liabilities      112,890 	 82,879
Net assets       112,890 	 82,879
     
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital      8 4,956 2,616
Share premium      8 236,795 	 193, 145
Other reserves      8 11,303 11,303
Warrant reserve      9,	11 22,703 22,703
Share-based charges reserve     9,	11 1,842  151
Treasury share reserve      9 (9,587) –
Profit and loss account      9 (155,122) 	 (147 ,039)
Total shareholders’ funds      10 112,890 		 82,879
The	 financial	statements	 on	pages	9 7	 to	106	 wer e	appr o v ed	b y	 the	Boar d	 of	Dir ectors	 on	18	Mar ch	2015	and	 wer e	signed	 on	its	behalf	b y:
Steve Melton Paolo Pieri 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
Circle Holdings plc  
Registered number: 100016 (Jersey)
Annual Report and financial statements 2014     97
Company  
balance sheet
As at 31 December 2014 
Patient, 
CircleReading
I believe that this hospital  
has set the gold standard  
for other hospitals.
‘‘
  5  Investments
Company
       2014 2013 
     Note £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January      166,763 166,450
Additions – Circle Partnership Limited      13,066 –
Wind-up of investment in CH Subco      (1,800) –
Additions – capital contributions      12 – 313
At 31 December       178,029 166,763
Provision for impairment
At 1 January       166,763 	 149,344
Provision in the year      13,066 	 17 ,419
Wind-up of investment in CH Subco      (1,800) –
At 31 December       178,029 166,763
Net book amount 
At 31 December      – –
The directors consider that the value of the company’s fixed asset investments, which are listed below, is supported by their  
underlying assets:
   Proportion of  
Name of company Holding Nature of business voting rights held Country of incorporation 
Cir cle	International	plc	 Or dinary	shar es	 Holding	and	management	 100%	 United	Kingdom
Health	 Capital	Limited		 Or dinary	shar es	 Holding	and	management	 100%	 United	Kingdom
Health	Pr operties	Limited		 Or dinary	shar es	 Holding	and	management	 100%	 Jersey
Health Estates Managers Limited Ordinary shares Fund services (JFSC
*
	r egister ed)		 100%	 Jersey
CH	 Subco	Limited	 Or dinary	shar es	 Finance	compan y	 100%	 Jersey
Circle (Welbeck) Limited
**
 Preference shares Finance company n/a United Kingdom
 
98     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     99
Notes to the Company  
financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2014
1  Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
These financial statements are prepared  
for Circle Holdings plc (the ‘Company’)  
for the year ended 31 December 2014.  
The Company is the ultimate parent 
entity of the Circle Holdings plc Group 
(the ‘Group’). These financial statements 
are prepared under the historical cost 
convention, and in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006 and applicable 
accounting standards in the United 
Kingdom. The principal accounting policies, 
which have been applied consistently for 
both years presented, are set out below.
Accounting convention
These financial statements have been 
prepared on a historical cost basis in 
accordance with the Companies (Jersey) 
Law	1991	and	applicable	 UK	accounting	
standards. The Company has not prepared 
a separate profit and loss account and cash 
flow statement as it is not a requirement 
under	 C ompanies	( Jersey)	Law	1991.
Going concern
The directors consider it to be appropriate 
for the Company financial statements to be  
prepared on a going concern basis, based 
on the assumptions considered in the 
Directors’ report on page 27.
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries and joint 
ventures are valued at cost less provision 
for impairment. The carrying value of 
fixed asset investments is reviewed for 
impairment when events or changes in 
circumstances indicate the carrying  
value may not be recoverable.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided in full (without 
discounting) based on current tax rates and 
law, on timing differences that result in an 
obligation at the balance sheet date to pay 
more tax, or a right to pay less tax in the 
future, except as otherwise required by  
FRS	19,	‘Deferr ed	 tax ’ .	
Warrants
A warrant is an instrument issued by a 
company, which gives the holder the right 
to purchase shares in that company at a 
specific price at a future date. An equity 
instrument is any contract that evidences  
a residual interest in the assets of an entity  
after deducting all of its liabilities. A warrant 
is treated as a financial liability if:
•	 it 	 is 	 a 	 non-derivativ e 	 and 	 the 	 entity 	 is	
obliged to deliver a variable number  
of the company’s own shares; or
•	 it	is	a	 derivativ e	 that	 will	be	settled	 
other than by a fixed amount of cash  
or other assets for a fixed number of  
the company’s own shares.
Transaction costs are apportioned between 
the liability and equity components of the 
shares, based on the allocation of proceeds 
to the liability and equity components 
when the instruments are first recognised.
i Equity warrants
 The proceeds on issue of equity warrants 
are included within shareholders’ equity, 
net of transaction costs. The fair value  
of the equity component is not 
remeasured in subsequent years. The  
fair value of warrants is credited to 
equity, with the debit being charged  
to the profit and loss account, or taken 
to non-current liabilities where the 
warrants are linked to a loan.
 Equity warrants are valued using an 
appropriate valuation methodology  
on a diluted pricing basis, based on  
the relevant share price at the time  
of issue, or based on an assessment of 
the market price at the time of issue.
ii Financial liability warrants
 Warrants issued that create a  
financial liability to the Company 
are presented as a liability in the 
balance sheet, measured initially at 
fair value, net of transaction costs 
and, subsequently, at amortised cost 
until extinguished on conversion or 
redemption. The initial fair value of the 
warrant liability is determined using an 
appropriate valuation methodology.
Capital contributions
Share-based incentive schemes for 
employees are operated by subsidiary 
undertakings that are settled by equity 
instruments in the Company. The cost of 
equity-settled transactions with employees 
is measured by reference to the fair value 
at the date at which they are granted, 
and is recognised over the vesting period, 
which ends on the date on which relevant 
employees become fully entitled to the 
warrants in the Company.
The grant of these warrants in the 
Company to the employee of the  
subsidiary undertaking is treated as a 
capital contribution. The fair value is 
recognised over the vesting period as  
an increase to the investment in subsidiary 
undertaking, with a corresponding credit  
to equity.
2  Profit and loss
The result for the year is a loss of 
£8,083,000 (2013: loss of £5,721,000).
3  Operating costs
The Company incurred £28,000 (2013: 
£27,000) in relation to UK statutory audit 
fees for the year ended 31 December 2014.
4  Directors’ emoluments
During the year, £274,000 (2013: 
£289,000)	 was	paid	 to	 dir ectors	 of	 
the Company, which includes amounts 
received in respect of share-based charges. 
Remuneration was paid to other directors  
via subsidiary companies; total details 
of which are included in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on page 36. * Jersey Financial Services Commission. 
** Subsidiary held indirectly.  
100     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     101
Notes to the Company financial statements
Continued
6  Debtors
       2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
Prepayments and accrued income      35 176
Other debtors      59 522
Amounts owed by Group undertakings      101,691 	 80,493
      101,785 	 81, 191
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are a combination of interest-bearing and interest-free amounts, unsecured and receivable  
on demand.
7  Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
       2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
Trade creditors      133 	 190
Amounts owed to Group undertakings       2,636 26
Accruals and deferred income      306 352
      3,075 568
8  Called up share capital
Authorised 
       2014 2013 
      £’000 £’000
Ordinary shares of £0.02 each      6,500 5,000
Convertible shares (18 months) of £0.02 each     250,000 –
Convertible shares (36 months) of £0.02 each     310,000 –
      566,500 5,000
       2014 2013 
      Number Number
Ordinary shares of £0.02 each      325,000,000 250,000,000
Convertible shares (18 months) of £0.02 each     12,500,000 –
Convertible shares (36 months) of £0.02 each     15,500,000 –
      353,000,000 250,000,000
8  Called up share capital continued
Allotted and fully paid up 
     Called up Share Other 
   Shares share capital premium reserves Total 
   Number £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Ordinary shares
A t	1	 January	2013	 	 	 130,7 06,657	 2,6 14	 193, 145	 11,303	 207 ,062
Shares issued – 20 June 2013 (net of costs)  £0.02 78,465 2 – – 2
At 1 January 2014   130,785,122 2,616 193,145 11,303 207,064
Fundraise	–	9	 January	2014	(net	 of	costs)	 	 £0.02 55,000,000 1,100 25,120 – 26,220
Shares issued – 16 June 2014 (net of costs)  £0.02 	 62,7 69	 1	 –	 –	 1
Project Reset – ordinary shares issued –  
8 December 2014 (net of costs)  £0.02 38,855,367 777 7,560 – 8,338
Project Reset – convertible shares issued –  
8 December 2014 (net of costs)  £0.02 	 23,093,930	 462	 10,9 7 0	 –	 –
At 31 December 2014   247,797,188 4,956 236,795 11,303 241,623
On	16	 June,	 the	 C ompan y	issued,	at	nominal	 value,	an	aggr egate	 of	62,7 69	 or dinary	shar es	 of	£0.02	each	in	 the	capital	 of	 the	 C ompan y	 
to non-executive directors pursuant to individual share awards.
9  Reserves
      Treasury Share-based Profit 
  Share Warrant Other share charges and loss 
  premium reserve reserves reserve reserve account 
 Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
A t	1	 January	2014	 	 193, 145	 22,7 03	 11,303	 –	 15 1	 (147 ,039)
Loss for the financial year  – – – – – (8,083)
Awards of shares to  
non-executive directors  12 – – – – 14 –
Issue of shares in relation to fundraising  26,400 – – – – –
Issue 	 of 	 shar es 	 in 	 r espect 	 of 	 Pr oject 	 R eset 		 	 19,7 80	 –	 –	 (9,587)	 1, 105	 –
Capitalised costs in relation  
to Project Reset  (1,250) – – – – –
Other share-based charges   – – – – 572 –
Capitalised costs in relation to fundraising  (1,280) – – – – –
At 31 December 2014  236,795 22,703 11,303 (9,587) 1,842 (155,122) 10  Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
       2014 2013 
     Note £’000 £’000
Loss for the financial year      (8,083) (5,721)
Net proceeds on issue of ordinary share capital     8 – 2
Additions to warrant reserve      11 – 313
Awards of shares to non-executive directors     12 14 55
Issue of shares      12 38,080 –
Net addition to shareholders’ funds      30,011 (5,351)
Opening shareholders’ funds      82,879 88,230
Closing shareholders’ funds      112,890 	 82,879
11  Warrants
The Company issues warrants which give the holders the right to purchase shares for a specific price at a future date. The warrants are  
treated either as equity instruments and recorded in the warrant reserve, or as financial liabilities and recorded in liabilities, depending  
on certain criteria, as outlined in the Company’s accounting policies. There are no remaining warrants issued as financial liabilities.
Warrants treated as equity instruments
Movements in the warrant reserve during the year are as follows:
      2014 2013 
     Note £’000 £’000
At 1 January      22,703 	 22,390
Share-based charges in respect of warrants issued     12 – 313
At 31 December      22,703 22,703
 
102     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     103
Notes to the Company financial statements
Continued
11  Warrants continued
The following table details all share warrants issued by the Company which are recognised in equity, none of which have been  
exercised to date:
   Original       
   warrants,      
  Revised restated for   At  At 
  exercise five-for-one  Revised 1 January Share-based 31 December 
  price split Modified warrants 2014 charges 2014 
 Note £ Number Number Number £’000 £’000 £’000
Beneficiary
Warrants issued in 2008
–  Balderton Capital  b £1.52 523,460 – 523,460 4,111 – 4,111
–  Lansdowne Partners b	 £1.52	 99,630	 –	 99,630	 7 83	 –	 7 83
–		 JCAM		 		 £10.3 1	 238,930	 –	 238,930	 1,6 16	 –	 1,6 16
Warrants issued in 2009
–  Balderton Capital  b £1.52 172,355 – 172,355 675 – 675
–  Lansdowne Partners b	 £1.52	 17 2,355	 –	 17 2,355	 479	 –	 479
–  BlueCrest Capital  
    Management b	 £1.52	 75,5 10	 –	 75,5 10	 296	 –	 296
Warrants modified in 2011
–  Health Trust (Jersey) a £1.52 – 2,340,765 2,340,765 14,743 – 14,743
   1,282,240 2,340,765 3,623,005 22,703 – 22,703
a The cancellation of the warrants issued to Health Trust (Jersey) and Health Trust (Jersey) option pool, and reissue of warrants to  
Health Trust (Jersey) are detailed in note 26 of the consolidated financial statements.    
b	 In	May	2011	after	IPO,	 the	existing	shar e	 warrants,	 which	consisted	 of	 warrants	issued	in	2008	and	2009	 to	Health	 T rust	( Jersey)	
and Health Trust (Jersey) option pool, were modified adjusting both the exercise price and vesting conditions. Under the terms of the 
modification, the existing share warrants were replaced with warrants issued exclusively to Health Trust (Jersey), of which Ali Parsa is a 
beneficiary, and the exercise price was set to the IPO price of £1.52 per new ordinary share issued. The modified share warrants do not 
have any expiry date or any conditions attached. A fair value assessment was completed based on the value of the existing warrants 
prior to IPO, and the fair value of the modified warrants determined using Black-Scholes on a diluted pricing basis using the parameters 
outlined on the next page. The incremental fair value of the modification was recognised on a straight-line basis over a 24-month period 
from May 2011 until May 2013, in line with the revised vesting timetable (1/24 every month from May 2011).    
         
  12  Capital contributions continued
d Other share-based charges
 In December 2013, the Company agreed to grant to the Group’s Chief Financial Officer options to subscribe for 2,200,000 ordinary 
shares at an exercise price of £0.02 per ordinary share. This separate incentive arrangement was agreed, given he was not a participant  
of the previous share scheme, nor has he previously received as remuneration any shares or options in the Company since joining in  
2010. The options were granted in December 2014, and a charge of £572,100 was recognised. The options vest in two equal tranches,  
the first tranche fully vested on the date of grant. A fair value assessment of the second tranche of share options was completed,  
based on the parameters disclosed below.
Modified share option parameters:
Stock price at grant date (1 December 2014)      £0.50
Exercise price      £0.02
Expected volatility
*
	 		 			 50%
Risk -fr ee	inter est	rate	 	 	 	 	 	 5%
Vesting period      One year
Fair value of share option      £0.50
Modified warrant issue parameters (reflecting five-for-one share split):
Stock price      £1.52
Exercise price      £1.52
Expected volatility
*
	 		 			 50%
Risk -fr ee	inter est	rate	 	 	 	 	 	 5%
Warrant life
**
      10 years
Fair value of warrant      £1.02
The incremental increase in the fair value was assessed at £1,478,000 and was charged to the income statement over the remaining  
vesting period, along with the residual charge relating to the fair value at the grant date of the initial warrants. The share-based charge 
recognised in the income statement for the year to 31 December 2014 is £nil (2013: £313,000). There were no new warrant issues  
qualifying as share-based charges during 2014 (2013: £nil), and none of the warrants were exercised in 2014 (2013: £nil).
12  Capital contributions
Shares and share warrants are issued to employees and clinicians and external investors who contribute to the success and growth in value  
of the Group. The issuance of these warrants and shares, including the issue of shares to scheme participants and employees, qualifies as 
equity-settled share-based payment transactions, and falls within the scope of IFRS 2, ‘Share-based payment’. The impact on the income 
statement in respect of share-based charges is as follows. Note: there is no charge associated with the transaction where the employees 
subscribe for the shares at full market value:
      2014 2013 
    Note Type £’000 £’000
Issue of shares in relation to Project Reset   a Shares – –
Awarded to Health Trust (Jersey)   b Warrants – 313
Awarded to non-executive directors   c Shares 14 55
Other share-based charges   d Shares 572 –
     586 368
a Circle Partnership Limited
 In December 2014, Circle Holdings plc completed the acquisition of CPL as part of the Group’s organisational restructuring. Circle 
Holdings 	 plc 	 now 	 owns 	 100% 	 of 	 Cir cle 	 Health 	 Limited 	 and 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 operating 	 entities. 	 Of 	 the 	 total 	 number 	 of 	 CPL 	 shar es 	 available	 
to 	 be 	 acquir ed 	 b y 	 the 	 Gr oup , 	 5, 118,739 	 wer e 	 un v ested. 	 The 	 5, 118,739 	 un v ested 	 shar es 	 in 	 CPL 	 con v erted 	 to 	 2,23 1,77 0 	 Cir cle 	 Holdings 	 plc	
convertible shares at £0.02 each. A share-based charge of £1,105,000 was recognised to record the incremental fair value of shares  
given to members of the CPL share scheme.
b Health Trust (Jersey)
 In May 2011, new share warrants were issued exclusively to Health Trust (Jersey), of which Ali Parsa is a beneficiary, replacing the share 
warrants previously issued to Health Trust (Jersey) and Health Trust (Jersey) option pool. Under the terms of the new warrants, the 
exercise price was set to the IPO price of £1.52 per new ordinary share issued. The 2,340,765 share warrants vested over a 24-month 
period from May 2011 until May 2013, and were exercisable from the date they vest (1/24 every month from May 2011) and do not have  
any expiry date. A fair value assessment was completed based on the value of the existing warrants prior to cancellation, and the fair 
value of new warrants determined using Black-Scholes on a diluted pricing basis using the parameters outlined on the next page.
c Non-executive directors
 The Group operates an equity-settled, share-based compensation plan for its non-executive directors. The entity receives services from  
these directors as consideration for shares in the Group. The fair value of the services received in exchange for the grant of the awards  
is recognised as an expense. The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the awards granted. 
 Non-market performance and service conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest. 
The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be 
satisfied. At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based  
on the non-market vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the profit and loss account, 
with a corresponding adjustment to equity. When the vesting conditions are met, the company issues new shares. The proceeds received  
net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium.
 
104     Circle Holdings plc Annual Report and financial statements 2014     105
Notes to the Company financial statements
Continued
* The historical volatility is assumed to be indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
** The life of the warrant is based on the expected term and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.    13  Related party transactions
During the year, the Company entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with other related parties. Transactions  
entered into and trading balances outstanding are as below. 
F ollowing	 the	 Gr oup’ s	r eor ganisation,	 transactions	 with	some	 Gr oup	companies,	 which	ar e	now	100%	 owned	b y	 the	 C ompan y ,	 
are eligible for exemption from disclosure under FRS 8, ‘Related party disclosure’, and have accordingly been removed from the  
list of related party transactions.
      2014  2013 
    Amounts Amounts Amounts Amounts 
    owed by owed to owed by owed to 
    related party related party related party related party 
   Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Capita  a – – – –
a Capita
	 During	2014,	 the	 C ompan y	 was	char ged	£96,000	(2013:	£96,000)	b y	 Capita	 for	 fiduciary	services	pr o vided	 to	 the	 C ompan y	 during	 
the year. The amount outstanding at 31 December 2014 was £nil (2013: nil). 
The following are related parties by virtue of their significant shareholding. The Group financial statements provide more details.
       Value of 
     Number of  warrants held 
     shares held Shareholding £
Balderton	 Capital	 	 	 	 16,756,534	 6.8%	 4,7 86
BlueCr est	 Capital	Management	 	 	 	 9,252,685	 3.7%	 296
In v esco	P erpetual	 	 	 	 53,268,920	 21.5%	 –
Lansdowne	P artners	 	 	 	 54, 167 ,008	 21.9%	 1,262
Odey	 Asset	Management	 	 	 	 27 ,447 ,406	 11. 1%	 –
Cir cle	P artnership	Benefit	 T rust	 	 	 	 6 1,949,29 7	 25%	 –
Tim Bunting and Tony Bromovsky served as non-executive directors of Circle Holdings plc. They are appointees of Balderton Capital  
and Odey Asset Management, respectively. No fees were charged for Mr Bunting’s services to the Group. Mr Bromovsky was paid £17 ,000  
for his services rendered in 2014 in respect of his role as a non-executive director. In addition, Kilda Investments Limited, of which  
Mr Bromovsky is a beneficiary, was paid £26,000 for Mr Bromovsky’s services performed in relation to Project Reset. This was outside  
his capacity as a director. Tim Bunting and Tony Bromovsky resigned as non-executive directors of Circle Holdings plc during 2014. 
Other than the above and the equity transactions detailed in notes 11 and 12, there have been no transactions with these related parties.
14  Events after the balance sheet
In January 2015, Circle announced its intention to terminate the Hinchingbrooke Franchise Agreement. Please refer to the Directors’  
report on page 27 for a detailed overview. 
Annual Report and financial statements 2014     107 106     Circle Holdings plc
Notes to the Company financial statements
Continued
   
Patient, CircleReading
These guys take great pride and care in their work.  
I highly praise hospitality for their outstanding work.
‘‘ 110     Circle Holdings plc
 
Company  
information 
Non-executive directors
Michael Kirkwood CMG
Lorraine Baldry OBE
Andrew Shilston
Justin Jewitt
Lord Hutton of Furness
Executive directors
Steve Melton
Massoud Fouladi 
Paolo Pieri
Company Secretary
Capita Company Secretarial Services
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Registrars
Capita Registrars (Jersey) Limited
12 Castle Street
St Helier
Jersey JE2 3RT
Channel Islands
Independent auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1 Embankment Place
London WC2N 6RH
Bankers
Barclays plc
13 Library Place
St Helier 
Jersey 
JE4 8NE
Channel Islands
Advisors
Numis Securities Limited
10 Paternoster Square  
London EC4M 7LT
Solicitors
Ogier LLP
44 Esplanade
St Helier
Jersey	 JE4	9W G
Channel Islands
Wragge Lawrence Graham & Co LLP
4 More London Riverside
London SE1 2AU
Registered office
12 Castle Street
St Helier
Jersey JE2 3RT
Channel Islands
Corporate office
32 Welbeck Street
London W1G 8EU 32 Welbeck Street
London W1G 8EU
circleholdingsplc.com
