 Claimar Care Group Plc
40 Vicarage Road
Edgbaston
Birmingham
B15 3EZ
Tel: 0121 410 4080
Fax: 0121 410 4081
Claimar Care Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts
for the year ended 30 September 2008
changing lives 
www.claimar.co.uk
CONTENTS
 1 Highlights of the year
 2 Group at a glance
 4 Chairman’s statement
 6 Chief Executive’s review
 10 Board of Directors
 12 Questions and answers
 14 Directors’ report
 17 Corporate governance
 18 Directors’ remuneration report
 20 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
 21 Independent auditors’ report
 22 Consolidated income statement
 23 Consolidated balance sheet
 24 Consolidated statement of changes 
  in equity
 25 Consolidated cash ﬂ ow statement
 26 Accounting policies
 31 Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
 52 Parent Company ﬁ nancial statements
 53 Independent auditors’ report
 54 Company balance sheet
 55 Company accounting policies
 56 Notes to the Company ﬁ nancial 
  statements
 60 Notice of Annual General Meeting
 IBC Company information
Claimar Care Group Plc is now 
established as one of the UK’s 
foremost suppliers of high calibre 
care to individuals living in their 
own homes. Built on a decade of 
experience, and specialists in our 
ﬁ eld, our family of carers make a 
profound difference to the lives of 
elderly, inﬁ rm and disabled people
in the home.
changing lives 
www.claimar.co.uk Claimar Care Group Plc
40 Vicarage Road
Edgbaston
Birmingham
B15 3EZ
Tel: 0121 410 4080
Fax: 0121 410 4081
Claimar Care Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts
for the year ended 30 September 2008
changing lives 
www.claimar.co.uk
CONTENTS
 1 Highlights of the year
 2 Group at a glance
 4 Chairman’s statement
 6 Chief Executive’s review
 10 Board of Directors
 12 Questions and answers
 14 Directors’ report
 17 Corporate governance
 18 Directors’ remuneration report
 20 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
 21 Independent auditors’ report
 22 Consolidated income statement
 23 Consolidated balance sheet
 24 Consolidated statement of changes 
  in equity
 25 Consolidated cash ﬂ ow statement
 26 Accounting policies
 31 Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
 52 Parent Company ﬁ nancial statements
 53 Independent auditors’ report
 54 Company balance sheet
 55 Company accounting policies
 56 Notes to the Company ﬁ nancial 
  statements
 60 Notice of Annual General Meeting
 IBC Company information
Claimar Care Group Plc is now 
established as one of the UK’s 
foremost suppliers of high calibre 
care to individuals living in their 
own homes. Built on a decade of 
experience, and specialists in our 
ﬁ eld, our family of carers make a 
profound difference to the lives of 
elderly, inﬁ rm and disabled people
in the home.
changing lives 
www.claimar.co.uk CLAIMAR CARE GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
www.claimar.co.uk
CLAIMAR CARE LIMITED
Domiciliary Care
Claimar Care offers a ﬂ exible care service aimed mostly at older adults in their own homes, although 
it also provides services to younger adults and children. It can provide a range of services, from a 15 
minute call to check on someone’s well-being, through to 24 hour care and support. The services 
provide an alternative to care in a residential or nursing home and allow individuals to maintain their 
independence and avoid admissions to hospital. Most revenues are currently generated from long-term 
contracts with Local Authorities which are typically for a period of three to ﬁ ve years with an option on 
the part of the Local Authority to extend for up to two more years.
PHARMASSURED LIMITED
Pharmacy
PharmAssured, our new pharmacy division, has been developed through Claimar Care’s in-depth 
understanding of the domiciliary care sector. PharmAssured is a provider of tailored domiciliary pharmacy 
services that meet both patient and carer needs exactly and by doing so aims to promote and support 
the increasing numbers of people, especially the elderly, who wish to live independently. PharmAssured 
will better manage the medication needs of vulnerable patients, particularly those on poly pharmacy 
treatments who receive on average six or more different types of medication at any one time, by making 
medication simpler and safer.
PRIMARY CARE SERVICES LIMITED
Training
Primary Care Training aims to provide a one stop shop solution to training requirements from individuals 
to large national organisations. The company provides coverage across England, Wales and Scotland 
supplying a portfolio of courses at public venues and on site at customers’ own premises. Most of 
the courses are accredited by awarding bodies such as the Royal Society for the Promotion of Health 
(RSPH) and the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health (CIEH). Primary Care Training has a 
government Train to Gain contract with the Learning Skills Council (LSC) and currently has over 500 
learners on programme. The most recent addition to Primary Care is a paediatric department providing 
ﬁ rst aid and other courses to Local Authorities, nurseries and child minders.
COMPLETE CARE HOLDINGS LIMITED
Complex/Specialist Care
Complete Care Holdings is a UK leader in the specialist ﬁ eld of complex care delivery for both adults and 
children. Our service, supported by many years of experience, allows people with severe disabilities — 
many of them ventilator dependent — to live independently in their own homes. The company delivers 
personalised care packages, based on the needs of the individual client and their family. This input 
allows clients to regain control of their lives and make choices about their future. The specialist team 
has a proven record of innovation and forward thinking that enables them to develop and adapt to the 
changing needs of our customers. Working so closely with clients and their families gives the teams an 
extensive knowledge of how to make very complex care packages work successfully and we continue to 
use this resource in further developing and improving our services countrywide.
PAEDIATRIC NURSING LINK LIMITED
Complex/Specialist Care
Paediatric Nursing Link (PNL) specialises in providing nursing care for sick children and their families in 
hospital, their own homes, and within school, respite and palliative care environments. We work closely 
with NHS Trusts and Social Services but we are also able to provide a complete package of care and 
management where there is no other support for patients and their families. PNL has been supplying 
medical staff, mainly qualiﬁ ed nurses and healthcare assistants, since 1999. It aims to provide a breadth 
and depth of temporary stafﬁ ng solutions throughout a wide range of care settings, and to meet the 
needs of service users, children and their families through a combination of expertise, ﬂ exibility and 
support to a diverse market. Our service is committed to providing effective solutions to meet our users’ 
speciﬁ c and intended needs.
SURECARE COMMUNITY SERVICES LIMITED
Domiciliary Care (Franchises)
SureCare operates as a national organisation of franchised providers who, as owners/operators of 
their service, are committed to offering a range of care services, electronic monitoring and associated 
products and services which assist users or providers to deliver or personally enjoy and maintain quality 
of life at a level of their choosing.
DIRECTORS
JRA Crabtree (Non Executive Chairman )
M Hales (Chief Executive)
JGI Moore (Non Executive Director)
NA Townend (Group Finance Director)
SECRETARY
NA Townend
COMPANY REGISTRATION NUMBER
05494140
REGISTERED OFFICE
40 Vicarage Road
Edgbaston
Birmingham
B15 3EZ
NOMINATED ADVISER AND BROKER
Arden Partners plc
Arden House
Highﬁ eld Road
Edgbaston
Birmingham
B15 3DU
REGISTRARS
Computershare Investor Services PLC
PO Box 82
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol
BS99 7NH
BANKERS
Royal Bank of Scotland plc
5th Floor
2 St Philips Place
Birmingham
B3 2RB
SOLICITORS
Hammonds
Rutland House
148 Edmund Street
Birmingham
B3 2JR
Higgs & Sons
Blythe House
Brierley Hill
West Midlands
DY5 3BG
AUDITORS
Mazars LLP
Lancaster House
67 Newhall Street
Birmingham
B3 1NG
FINANCIAL PUBLIC RELATIONS
Winningtons Financial PR
St Brandons House
29 Great George Street
Bristol
BS1 5QT
COMPANY  INFORMATION www.claimar.co.uk
1
“We strive every day to create
the highest quality service in
home care”
The summary of the Group presented on the facing page and on pages
2 to 3 illustrates the range of services now offered by the Group to people 
receiving or providing care at home. This range of services underpins the
Group’s strategy to achieve growth both organically and by developing new
revenue streams by cross-selling new services to our growing service user
base. We believe that this approach places us in a strong position to grow.
The Group achieved revenue growth of 136% in the year, largely through 
the two acquisitions made in the year ended 30 September 2008 and the 
eight acquisitions made in the previous year. Growth in operating proﬁt
was not as pronounced, and was less than had originally been expected. 
The Group experienced a number of challenges earlier in the year, and in 
response to those challenges the Board has initiated and delivered on a
number of key strategies which have strengthened the Group’s ability to 
respond to more challenging environments now and in the future.
The Group’s largest acquisition to date was the acquisition of the Complete 
Group in November 2007, which expanded the Group’s activities into the
provision of complex, specialist care. The newest addition to the Group is
PharmAssured, a business which the Group established in November 2008 
to provide safer medication management for service users and
care workers.
With the expanded range of services now available, the Group is well positioned
to beneﬁt from the increasing demand for its services in the different sectors of
social and health care in which it participates. There
is signiﬁcant opportunity for the businesses
within the Group not only to increase
substantially the cross-selling of
their services to each other’ s
customers but also for the
core business themselves
to expand organically.
HIGHLIGHTS
Operational Financial
Revenue £’000
+136%
04 05 06 07 08
Gross proﬁt £’000
+100%
04 05 06 07 08
2,203
3,032
4,976
8,263
16,552
Operating proﬁt
before amortisation and 
acquisition related costs 
£’000
+85%
04 05 06 07 08
432
760
1,496
2,355
4,345
5,988
8,226
13,220
22,318
52,617 CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
2
Complex/Specialist Care
THE COMPLETE GROUP
The strategy for Complete for the coming year is twofold: to build on existing relationships and increase the level of 
business with those PCTs and Social Service departments to which Complete currently provides services; and to build 
and develop new relationships with those PCTs and Social Service departments to which Complete has not previously 
provided services. The key strategy for Paediatric Nursing Link (PNL) is to increase the level of business that it provides
through the LAP III contract. In order to do this PNL needs to increase the number of agency nursing staff that it has on 
its books. PNL is also looking to expand its service provision outside the London area.
Training
PRIMARY CARE TRAINING GROUP
The strategy is to grow both the scope and scale of the business. It will develop in scope to provide comprehensive 
learning and development solutions for the care sector, with products which provide a transparent career map from 
carers to senior management, through the development of the website and launch of an e-learning platform. Scale will 
be achieved by expanding course sales into Scotland and Wales, increasing the sales of NVQs to external learners, and 
becoming a preferred provider for the Department of Work and Pensions (including Job Centre Plus) on initiatives to 
bring more people into the care sector.
Domiciliary Care (Franchises)
SURECARE
The business will continue to focus on improving the nature of the support that it provides with the objective of 
improving franchise values, by promoting the use of new technologies and continuing to introduce further economies 
into franchise operations through the introduction of partner organisations and group services. The launch of the new 
alarm product and associated services through the franchise and branch network combined with a new e-commerce 
facility forms an important part of our growth strategy for the coming year and will serve to strengthen and broaden the 
portfolio of service that the business offers to both its internal and external customers.
Pharmacy
PHARMASSURED
PharmAssured will deliver tailored domiciliary pharmacy services that meet both patient and carer needs exactly through dedicated
people, processes and systems. The key focus in 2008 is to market and provide our domiciliary pharmacy services to Claimar
Care’ s circa 1,600 service users across the Midlands. The initial focus on the Midlands, where PharmAssured’ s dispensing
operation is based, will allow further review, testing and reﬁnement of operating processes and systems prior to a wider roll-out
early in 2009. With a phased roll-out plan across the Claimar Care branch network, PharmAssured will be in a position to offer its
domiciliary pharmacy services to all of Claimar Care’ s circa 6,000 and SureCare’ s circa 5,000 service users by January 2010.
Domiciliary Care
CLAIMAR CARE LIMITED
The business will concentrate on delivering organic growth both from its existing branch network and by taking part in 
tenders for contracts in new geographical areas. In preparation for the launch of Individual and Personal Budgets the 
company will prepare and position itself as a key provider capable of supporting people through the transition from 
having a service commissioned on their behalf to being able to commission their own service with funding from their 
local authority. It will also create new services that can be provided to its existing service user base of around 6,000 
people and potentially attract new self-pay users.
Brand Name Strategy  www.claimar.co.uk
Claimar Care Limited
Claimar Care is currently the largest division of the Group and operates from around 40 local ofﬁ ces
based primarily in the Midlands and North West of England. 
Head Ofﬁ ce: Birmingham
The Complete Group
Complete is able to provide care throughout the country.
Head Ofﬁ ce: Telford
Paediatric Nursing Link
PNL provides its services throughout the London area.
Head Ofﬁ ce: London
Primary Care Training Group
The group provides training courses at venues across England, Scotland and Wales.
Head Ofﬁ ce: Chester
SureCare
SureCare now has over 30 franchises, operating from a variety of locations across England.
Head Ofﬁ ce: Chester
Pharmassured
PharmAssured is initially providing its services across the Midlands, before extending its coverage 
across the rest of Claimar Care Limited’s branch network and then the remainder of the Group’s
area of operations.
Head Ofﬁ ce: West Bromwich
3
Location  4
In addition, since the trading update in June, we have 
won new contracts in Norfolk, a new geographic region 
for Claimar, Leeds and Leicester, and been successful 
in retaining existing contracts in St Helens, Lancashire, 
and Kirklees. There were no material contract losses in 
the period.
ACQUISITIONS
Two acquisitions were completed during the year,
including our largest acquisition to date.
The acquisition of Complete Care Group was completed 
on 1 November 2007. Complete is a market-leading 
provider of bespoke full-time care packages to adults
and children with severe disabilities including acquired 
brain or spinal cord injury, cerebral palsy, multiple 
sclerosis, muscular dystrophy and various 
other neurological illnesses.
CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
“Our family of carers make a real difference 
in the quality of life for elderly, vulnerable
and disabled people”
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
INTRODUCTION
I am pleased to present the Group’s results for the year 
ended 30 September 2008. 
PERFORMANCE IN 2007/08
Despite stronger growth and structural changes to the 
business in the second half of the year, the full year 
results, whilst in line with market expectations following a
trading update in June, are disappointing. 
2007/08 has nevertheless been another year of growth 
across many ﬁ nancial measures. Turnover increased
from £22.32m to £52.62m and the Group delivered
operating proﬁts* for the year of £4.67m (80% higher
than 2006/07) principally as a result of acquisitions.
The Group achieved organic growth of 4.29%. Earlier 
in the year we notiﬁ ed the market that we had been
awarded signiﬁ cant new or increased contracts in
Manchester, Rotherham, Leicester and Lancashire. 
* Before depreciation, share-based payment charge,
amortisation, acquisition and IFRS conversion related costs, 
and fair value movement on derivative ﬁ nancial instruments.
The acquisition of Complete Car
n 1 November 2007. Complete is a market-leading 
r of bespoke full-time care packages to adults 
with seve
ord injury, ce
dystrop
ses.
n line with market expectations following a 
trading update in June, are disappointing. 
2007/08 has nevertheless been another year of growth
CASE STUDY
TRAINING FOR CHANGING LIVES
The high quality of training provided to our carers enables them to change service users’ lives on a daily basis through the care which they provide. 
Often this means service users are able to continue living in their own homes, rather than moving into a care home. Sometimes our carers literally 
save service users’ lives, as the following example from our Cannock branch demonstrates.
Tracy Walker was making her regular morning call to the home of an 82-year-old Cannock lady when she noticed the smell of gas. The service user,
diagnosed with dementia and short-term memory loss, was unaware of the potentially dangerous situation. Tracy promptly swung into action, alert-
ing the emergency gas service and social services. She then swiftly opened doors and windows for ventilation and checked the gas cooker. Help 
arrived quickly and the gas leak was eventually tracked down to the gas boiler. Commenting on Tracy’s actions, a spokesperson from Staffordshire CC Social Care
and Health department said: “Tracy is certainly worthy of praise. Her vigilance and 
quick thinking helped to divert what could have been a tragedy. She remained calm 
and professional throughout and put the safety of her service user before her own.”
Congratulating Tracy on her achievement, the Cannock Branch Manager, Michelle 
Anderson, said: “Our company training programme ensures that our carers are well 
prepared for such emergencies as well as providing help with the day to day activities
that improve the lives of our clients.”
5
The Ravenscroft Group of companies was acquired in 
January 2008. Ravenscroft is a generic domiciliary care
provider which, at the date of acquisition, was delivering
nearly 9,000 hours per week to Lancashire County 
Council via nearly 400 carers.
The two acquisitions were ﬁ nanced by placing
18.25m new shares at 137p each to raise £23m (net 
of expenses). The placing was achieved at a minimal 
discount to the share price at the time, indicating a high 
level of shareholder support for the Board’s strategy.
BANKING FACILITIES
The Group has banking facilities of £25.5m in place. 
These comprise an £11m term loan (used to part fund 
the acquisition of Complete), a £12m revolving credit 
facility (of which £2.095m is undrawn) to ﬁ nance other
acquisitions, and a £2.5m overdraft facility to fund 
working capital.
The impact of the events outlined in our June trading 
statement and the lead time involved in generating a 
sufﬁ cient ﬁnancial response to them has meant that,
since our pre-close trading statement in September, it 
became clear that the Group would have been likely to 
breach marginally its interest cover convenant at the end
of December 2008.
We therefore held discussions with our bankers,
RBS, who remain very supportive of the Group and 
its prospects, and renegotiated this covenant test for 
December 2008. We do not now anticipate any breach 
of our banking covenants.
DIVIDEND
Shareholders will be aware from our Interim Report at 
31 March 2008 that there was no interim dividend 
payment (2007: 0.25p). The Board does not propose the 
payment of a ﬁ nal dividend for 2007/08 (2007: 0.5p) or
an interim payment for 2008/09.
BOARD CHANGES
As previously announced, Nick Townend joined the 
Group on 11 August 2008. I am pleased to say that Nick
has settled in well and is making a strong contribution 
to the Group’s ﬁ nancial management and the strategic
development of the Group’s activities.
PEOPLE
As always, I would like to thank all of our staff for their 
dedication and hard work during the year. In the care
sector our services are dependent upon the calibre of 
our workforce, who have worked tirelessly to deliver high 
quality care to service users, thereby positively changing 
many people’s lives. An example of this is provided in the 
case study below.
CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK
Trading in the current year has started well; the Group
is well positioned to beneﬁ t from the different sectors
of social and health care in which it participates. There
is signiﬁ cant opportunity for the businesses within the
Group not only to increase substantially the cross-selling
of their services to each other’s customers but also for 
the core businesses themselves to expand organically.
We believe we are well placed to continue to grow in the
current year.
John Crabtree
Chairman
18 December 2008
www.claimar.co.uk “We work hard to maintain our reputation as
providers who really care about our people
and those who use our services”
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
The summary of the Group’s activities set out below
illustrates the range of services now offered by Claimar
to people in receipt of care at home. Importantly, it also
underpins the Group’s strategy to achieve growth both
organically and by making selective acquisitions of
complementary businesses within the health and social
care sector, and by developing new revenue streams by
cross-selling new services to our growing service user
base. We believe that this approach places us in a strong
position to respond to changes in the way that services
are delivered across the sector.
Group activities now comprise:
l Claimar Care: Domiciliary care (mostly to older adults)
l SureCare: Domiciliary care franchising and medical
alert devices
l Primary Care Training: Health and social care training
l Complete Care: High acuity care services
l PharmAssured: Medication procurement and
management
Despite the increase in turnover and operating proﬁts
achieved during the year, the Group failed to deliver the
level of organic growth that had been planned with much
of the growth having been achieved from acquisitions
made. Overall, the Group achieved only 4.29% growth
organically. An under-performance across the Group with
regard to recruitment and retention severely impacted
our ability to grow. Following our trading update in June,
signiﬁcant restructuring took place which helped improve
performance in the second half of the year. The Group
beneﬁted in particular from strong performances in the
second half from Primary Care Training and SureCare, our
training and franchise businesses.
In the June trading update, we notiﬁed the market of
a number of factors which together were negatively
impacting the business. Since that trading update the
Board has initiated a number of actions to improve
performance, as detailed below.
CLAIMAR CARE
l Placed a temporary suspension on acquisitions to
enable the management team to focus on the core
business and deliver integration synergies.
l Implemented an organisational restructuring,
including the appointment of a Managing Director
and an additional Operations Director.
l Continued the roll-out of a new rostering data base
which will see all ofﬁces operating on one single
platform.
l Created a stand-alone Quality & Compliance team,
reporting directly to the Managing Director.
l Increased the focus on recruitment and retention
activity led by the new Group HR Director.
l Introduced tighter cost controls and better provision
of KPIs to allow better visibility.
COMPLETE CARE
l Implemented a management restructuring which has
seen David Burton, the Commercial Director, take
over from Barbara Scandrett, who has resigned from
CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
6 6
CASE STUDY
EXTENDING OUR SERVICES
Complete has extended its services to provide a new care service for young people who wish to live independently after college. Like any young 
couple, Alexandra and Matthew are enjoying making their ﬁ rst home together. They met as students at Portland College, Nottingham, a national
residential college for people with a wide range of physical disabilities, and have been together for more than two years. In November 2007, they 
took a major step in their relationship when they moved into a new property in Balderton, Newark.
The property is part of a joint independent living project between the college, the Newark ofﬁ ce of Nottinghamshire Social Services and Complete,
which provides round-the-clock support through live-in carers and daily care staff. Working with the care team, Alexandra and Matthew are further 
developing the day-to-day skills and conﬁ dence needed to live more independently in their own home rather than in residential accommodation. 7
www.claimar.co.uk
her role as Managing Director but remains as a Non-
Executive Director of Complete Care.
l Renegotiated or relinquished loss-making contracts.
l Introduced better recruitment processes and tighter
controls regarding the use of agency staff, which has
resulted in signiﬁcant cost savings over the last few
months.
l Initiated closer links with other Group companies
around training provision to generate cost savings.
SURECARE
l Restructured our offering to include a staged
payment process, in order to combat the downturn in
new franchise enquiries and conversion of sales.
l Removed some costs, pending the availability of
a new medical alarm due to be launched in
January 2009.
CLAIMAR CARE
This year has seen a number of challenges for Claimar
Care Limited. The business suffered in the early part of
the year due to an underperformance in recruitment and
retention, which in turn led to an inability to grow and
put pressure on the core business. There were at times
operational issues due to management stretch as the
company failed to integrate recent acquisitions properly.
In order to deal with the problems facing the business
at that time we suspended acquisition activity to
enable the management team to focus on the core
business, strengthened the management team with the
appointment of North and South Operation Directors and
refocused our efforts on recruitment and retention. We
have seen improvement in the second half of the year as
a result of these actions. The ﬁnal part of the restructure
was completed on 1 December with the appointment
of Mark Lavery as Managing Director of Claimar Care
Limited. Prior to accepting this post Mark was the
Managing Director of Celsian Healthcare and prior to
this was the Managing Director of Allied Health Care. In
the second half of the year Claimar has beneﬁted from a
number of new contract wins, in both existing and new
geographical areas, as well as the retention of existing
contracts that were due to expire and were retendered in
the open market. This performance underlines Claimar’s
ability to bid for, win and then deliver larger contracts,
something smaller providers in the market are ﬁnding
increasingly difﬁcult to achieve.
As stated in previous announcements, the market is
changing. In particular, the move to outcome focused
services and, in the future, the roll-out of individual
budgets and personal budgets will all beneﬁt Claimar’s
business model.
Given the current economic environment and the
Government’s target level of efﬁciency savings over the
next few years, we believe that whilst gross margin will
continue to come under pressure, the size of contracts
will increase as Local Authorities choose to work with
fewer but larger providers.
There are signiﬁcant savings for local authorities who
outsource some or all of their service. According to the
Laing & Buisson 2008 report on the domiciliary sector,
on average Local Authorities in England incurred costs
of £21.80 per hour which are now 68% more expensive
than the independent sector at £13.00 per hour.
Across England 78% of hours delivered and funded by
Social Services were provided by the independent sector,
and across those Local Authorities that Claimar currently
contracts with the average was 71%, suggesting that
there still remains a signiﬁcant opportunity for more work
to be outsourced.
Despite budgetary pressures in the market, and a
tightening of eligibility criteria, providers are still struggling
to match supply with demand caused by the increase in
our ageing population. In many parts of the country we
are aware that, despite funding having been approved
for service users by local authorities, those in need of a
service are still placed on a waiting list whilst providers
try to build the required levels of capacity. It therefore
follows that currently the only inhibitor for the growth of
the business is its ability to recruit and retain its staff,
something that in the current climate of job losses in other
sectors is already showing signs of improvement.
In summary, with an improved and strengthened
management team, improvements in our ability to recruit
and retain staff, our reputation in the market and our
proven ability to manage larger contracts, we believe
Claimar to be well positioned to grow
in 2008/09.
Alexandra has been getting to grips with the challenges of everyday tasks such as 
cooking and laundry. Matthew describes himself as “quite independent”, but likes 
the reassurance of knowing that there’s always someone around “in case something
happens”. He’s looking forward to doing voluntary work as a wheelchair football coach 
and says that he and Alexandra are out and about much more since they moved into 
the Balderton property. Shopping, going to the library, sports training, enjoying a drink 
at the pub or visiting Alexandra’s mum, who lives locally, are all activities they enjoy,
which also add to their quality of life and independence. CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
8
In March 2008 Primary Care obtained approval to sign
up learners in other geographical areas and since then
the number of learners has grown from 90 to over 500. A
sustained recruitment campaign has grown the
NVQ department to 22 staff including a dedicated
recruitment/sign-up team and back room staff
responsible for supporting ﬁeld-based assessors.
In October the result of many months’ work to pass
the Learning and Skills Council’s (LSC) stringent quality
and ﬁnancial tests resulted in Primary Care being
awarded a contract to deliver NVQ qualiﬁcations under
the Government Train to Gain initiative in the West
Midlands. Primary Care immediately began a capacity
building exercise to recruit the infrastructure for delivering
qualiﬁcations in an extremely competitive marketplace,
including the appointment of an NVQ contracts manager.
The increase in quality of our NVQ provision has been
recognised in recent audit visits by City & Guilds and the
LSC and we showcased our achievements at an Ofsted
inspection in December. The take-up of new candidates
has resulted in a new LSC contract and we are poised in
2008/09 to start recruiting learners from outside the Group.
The original Primary Care core portfolio of public courses,
commissioned training and distance learning has been
updated and refreshed and now provides a strong
platform on which to grow in 2008/09.
The scarcity of good quality training providers, particularly
with such a wide portfolio of courses, gives Primary
Care an excellent opportunity for signiﬁcant growth.
As different areas of the business grow, so do the
opportunities of cross-selling products to customers who
have purchased services.
In summary, Primary Care Training begins 2008/09 with
a stronger range of products, fully resourced to respond
quickly to customer demand, particularly in the NVQ
division, and with a focused sales function, equipped
with professional marketing tools underpinned by a more
cohesive, ambitious strategy for growth.
SURECARE
Organic revenue growth during the year for our franchise
operation was 29% and has seen SureCare experience a
balance of challenge and success in continuing franchise
operations, new franchise sales and the development of
alarm services.
Despite recruitment difﬁ culties and an increasingly
competitive local marketplace, the franchise network 
COMPLETE CARE
Complete Group continued to have a strong referral
pipeline, although only beneﬁted from organic revenue
growth of 7%, due principally to an under-performance in
recruitment and retention. Proﬁt was adversely impacted
by substantially higher costs associated with the need to
use agency staff; this position has improved signiﬁcantly
in the second half of the year and is now in line with
our expectations. Complete Care has also diversiﬁed
into other types of complex disability care which has
contributed to the higher volume of referrals.
During the year the UK recruitment market has been
extremely difﬁcult, but during the last three months of
the year the situation has markedly eased with more
candidates coming forward. Following the changes
to the work permit regulations we have had to set up
new arrangements for the recruitment of staff from
other countries. This took six months to set up but is
now working well and supplying a steady stream of
candidates.
There is a great opportunity for Complete Care to
expand geographically into the South West, North East
and Eastern England and also to build on their existing
relationships with primary care trusts. The outlook for the
next year is very positive.
PRIMARY CARE TRAINING
Organic revenue growth from our training business was
a very pleasing 165% in the year. Primary Care has
rapidly grown to become a major provider of learning and
development in the healthcare sector. The past year has
seen many changes and Primary Care now bears little
resemblance to the organisation that Claimar acquired in
2007.
The beginning of the year saw Primary Care move
its head ofﬁce from Cheadle in Manchester to share
premises in Chester with another of the Group’s
subsidiary companies, SureCare. The existing Claimar
training department seamlessly took over the running of
Primary Care’s external operation and the Group Training
Manager became the Managing Director.
The start of the year also saw Primary Care identify a
potential market to develop paediatric courses, primarily
around the Ofsted requirement for local authority Early
Years teams, nurseries and child-minders to demonstrate
knowledge of paediatric ﬁrst aid. This venture has seen
the successful launch of this division of Primary Care and
winning of the business of several Local Authorities. In
2008/09 we have strong indications that we will become
the preferred provider for up to eight Local Authorities.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S REVIEW continued
city
delivering
ketplace,
acts mana
on has be
& Guilds
ments at a
p of new
and we
from ou
portfolio
ance le
w prov
008/09
ining
ourses
or sig
ss gro
oduct
beg
esou
ularly
ction
pinn
fran
ienc
hise
f 9
www.claimar.co.uk
enjoyed considerable success with their average 
revenues increasing by 23% in the period. Improvements
in volume have been driven by the ﬂ exibility of the
franchise model and by the broadening of the range 
and nature of the services offered, with innovative 
approaches to service and supply relationships being 
promoted and implemented.
The quality of services across the network has been 
enhanced through the commitment of our franchisees to 
meeting regulatory, corporate and contractual obligations
and through the delivery of services that meet outcomes 
for individuals. The process of improvements has 
resulted in 85% of services being classed as “good” or
“excellent” by our regulators. The business will continue 
to revise operating policy and procedure with support 
being geared to maintaining and improving standards 
of compliance and service in a changing regulatory 
landscape.
The franchise sales function of the business continues 
to be challenged by the wider economic conditions with 
the key aspects of the operation being focused on the 
recruitment of new franchisees and the identiﬁcation and
drawdown of funding for each of the new businesses. 
The franchise opportunity continues to be widely 
promoted. The revision of the franchise model mid-year,
combined with the active sales programme, has led to 
ﬁve new franchise territories currently being developed
with an improvement in the number and quality of 
franchise leads.
The development and promotion of our alarm and 
monitoring services have been adversely impacted by 
the continued delays in the design, development and 
manufacture of new alarm units. We have continued 
to work with our technology partners and delivery of 
the new product will be made in the ﬁ rst quarter of the
year. It will have a range of features that signiﬁ cantly
differentiate it in the marketplace and the process of self-
design and manufacture has resulted in UK exclusivity 
and an advantageous price-point. The launch of the new 
product and associated services through the franchise
and branch network combined with a new e-commerce 
facility forms an important part of our growth strategy 
for the coming year and will serve to strengthen and 
broaden the portfolio of service that the business offers
to both its internal and external customers.
PHARMASSURED
PharmAssured, our newly created pharmacy division, 
has been developed through Claimar Care’s in-
depth understanding of the domiciliary care sector.
PharmAssured, which began trading in November 2008, 
is a provider of tailored domiciliary pharmacy services 
that meet both patient and carer needs exactly and by 
doing so aims to promote and support the increasing 
numbers of people, especially the elderly, who wish to 
live independently.
PharmAssured will better manage the medication 
needs of vulnerable patients, particularly those on poly 
pharmacy treatments who receive on average six or 
more different types of medication at any one time, by 
making medication simpler and safer.
PharmAssured, through dedicated people, processes 
and systems, is ideally placed to provide domiciliary 
pharmacy services to Claimar Care’s circa 7,000 
service users and subsequently to market and provide 
domiciliary pharmacy services and carer support to other 
care providers nationwide.
SUMMARY
We are operating in a strong sector that is supported by
strong demographics, and a stated Government strategy
to provide care to more people in their own homes as 
a more cost-efﬁ cient way of delivering a service to an
ageing population, but also one that beneﬁ ts patients’
well-being. 
 
CURRENT TRADING AND PROSPECTS
Trading in the ﬁrst two months of this ﬁnancial year has
been positive, with Claimar Care performing broadly 
in line with budget, but Complete Care, SureCare
and Primary Care all marginally outperforming our 
expectations. Whilst 2007/08 was disappointing, actions 
taken in the second half of the year have placed the 
business in a stronger position to beneﬁ t in 2008/09
from the range of services it supplies. The focus this year
will be on leveraging the relationship between Group 
subsidiaries, but also on providing our pharmacy and 
training services to the wider market including external 
providers and commissioners.
Our focus in the current year will be to target signiﬁ cantly
improved organic growth across the Group. 
Mark Hales
Chief Executive
18 December 2008
promoted and implemented.
The quality of services across the network has been 
h the commitment of our franchisees to 
te and contractual 
s that meet outcomes
ents has 
“good” or 
ontinue 
rt 
d
care pr
UMMARY
are o
g de
ide ca
cost-efﬁ 
opulation, but also one that beneﬁ 
TRADING AND PROSPECTS
e ﬁ
, w
d
Care all marginally outperforming our
W
e
s
ge of services it supplies. The focus this year 
veraging the relationship between Gr
e
y
nd
ss o
ated pharmacy division, 
rough Claimar Ca
standing of the domiciliary care secto
PharmAssur
b
aining services to the wider market including exte
pr “We strive every day to create the highest
quality service in home care”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
10
John Crabtree OBE 
Non-Executive Director & 
Chairman*†•
John was formerly senior partner of 
Wragge & Co, the Birmingham-based
corporate law ﬁ rm. While in this role,
John was responsible for the ﬁ rm’s
evolution into a practice with 100 
partners and a turnover of £75m. John 
is Non-Executive Chairman of Metalrax 
Group plc, SLR Holdings Ltd and
Birmingham Hippodrome Ltd, Vice-
President of the Birmingham Chamber
of Commerce, and a Non-Executive 
Director of Stafﬂ ine Recruitment plc.
Mark Hales 
Chief Executive*
Mark has overall responsibility for 
the strategy and operations of the 
Company. His early career was in 
the motor industry where he spent 
some time as a consultant with the 
Spring Group (formerly CRT plc) 
providing advice and support to
senior management in the motor 
industry. In 1999 he joined Claimar 
Care, initially as Operational Manager 
and later as Managing Director. Mark 
has had prime responsibility for the 
development of the Company since 
that date, successfully listing Claimar 
Care Group on AIM in 2006. Mark is a 
Non-Executive Director and Honorary 
Treasurer of the UK Home Care
Association, the Home Care Sector’s
leading trade body.
Nick Townend 
Group Finance Director & 
Company Secretary*
Prior to joining Claimar, Nick was
Group Finance Director at Anchor
Trust, a £265m turnover provider of
housing, support and care to older
people. Nick joined Anchor as Head
of Finance for their Care Services
division, working on strategic ﬁnancial
planning, new business development,
and acquisitions, completing two
acquisitions in the residential and
domiciliary care sectors in his six
months in the role. In March 2006,
he was appointed as Group Finance
Director, with overall responsibility for
Anchor’s ﬁnancial management. Before
joining Anchor, Nick held senior ﬁnance
positions at Tetra Pak and Royal and
Sun Alliance plc. Nick is a Chartered
Accountant, starting his career with
Ernst & Young in London, and is a
graduate of Cambridge University. Nick
helps to advise Sue Ryder Care on
their 14 care homes, being a co-opted
member of the charity’s Property
Committee.
Gordon Moore
Non-Executive Director*†•
Gordon was a senior partner at KPMG 
for over 25 years providing audit 
and transaction services to a wide 
range of quoted and privately owned 
businesses. In addition to his client 
responsibilities, Gordon was involved
in a number of management roles 
including Head of Finance and Head 
of HR for the Midlands region, where
turnover exceeded £120m. Gordon 
chairs the Group’s Audit Committee 
and Remuneration Committee.
* Member of the Board
† Member of the Audit Committee
• Member of the Remuneration
Committee
The Company is controlled by the Board of Directors, which comprises the
Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and two Non-Executive Directors.
Each business is headed by a Managing Director, all of whom report to the Chief
Executive. All of our Directors have signiﬁcant experience in the sector and/or
their professional functional responsibility. 11
www.claimar.co.uk
Raj Chandarana
Managing Director,
PharmAssured
Raj is accountable for the design,
delivery and performance of the
PharmAssured business. Raj has
over 15 years of pharmacy and retail
industry experience, having started
his career with Boots the Chemists,
where he held a number of pharmacy,
retail management and change
management roles. After completing
an MBA programme in 2002, Raj
joined Tesco Stores as Organisation
Design Manager, with responsibility
for developing and applying strategy,
processes and tools, and for providing
process re-engineering, cost reduction
and structure design consultancy
across business functions, both in the
UK and internationally. In 2006 Raj
joined IBM business consulting, where
he supported clients to successfully
deliver large-scale technology driven
change programmes. After leaving IBM,
Raj worked as a consultant across
community pharmacy, establishing
and delivering a change programme to
enable the successful implementation of
the new pharmacy contract.
Mark Lavery
Managing Director,
Claimar Care Limited
Mark has spent his entire career 
in the recruitment and healthcare
sectors. After 16 years in the 
recruitment sector, Mark moved
into the healthcare sector. He was 
Chief Operating Ofﬁ cer of Corinth
Healthcare from 2000 to 2005, UK 
Managing Director of Allied Healthcare
Group from 2005 to 2007, and
Managing Director of the Celsian 
Group from 2007 to 2008. He joined
Claimar Care in December 2008.
David Burton
Managing Director,
Complete Group
David is responsible for the complex 
care division within the Claimar group. 
A qualiﬁ ed accountant (FCMA),
David has worked in a number of 
fast growing VC-backed businesses 
in a diverse range of industries 
including healthcare, steel, sales and 
distribution, and banking. David also 
has two Masters degrees, one in 
Finance and Accounting and one in 
Technology Management.
Clare Hudson
Operations Director (South), 
Claimar Care Limited
Clare has over 20 years’ experience 
in the care sector, having joined 
BNA (Nestor Health Care) as a 
Deputy Branch Manager in 1987. 
Clare spent 10 years with BNA, 
progressing through area and regional
management to Operations Director.
Through the extensive growth of the 
Nestor Group Clare gained valuable 
experience in managing acquisitions, 
and negotiating and implementing 
new contracts in health, social and 
domiciliary care, and in recruiting and 
managing large numbers of staff. In 
October 2007 Clare joined Celsian 
Care, the domiciliary care provider,
as Head of Operations, before joining 
Claimar Care in August 2008.
Karen McGrady
Operations Director (North), 
Claimar Care Limited
Karen qualiﬁ ed as a Registered
General Nurse before moving into 
private sector recruitment. Following 
an acquisition, she became part of 
BUPA and a member of the original 
senior management team in setting up 
Nursing Services, supplying qualiﬁ ed
nurses to the NHS and private sector.
This involved international nurse 
recruitment from the Philippines
and South Africa. Karen then joined 
Allied HealthCare, where she was 
instrumental in the winning and 
supplying of services within the North 
West and West Midlands PASA
Agreement. Karen has also worked 
for Care UK and Reed HealthCare, 
where she was responsible for setting 
up domiciliary care services to adults 
with physical and learning disabilities. 
Karen joined Claimar Care in February 
2008.
Amanda Brettell
Human Resources Director
Amanda joined the Group in 
November 2008. With over 20 
years’ experience in the delivery 
of HR business support services 
to service industries, Amanda has 
operated as HR Director for the past 
14 years. In a previous role, Amanda 
was responsible for the delivery of 
world-class HR to both operational 
and support service functions, 
encompassing some 13,000 
employees. Amanda’s knowledge 
of employment legislation and the 
complexities of TUPE, complemented 
by her experience of high volume 
recruitment in low pay sectors, make
her a valuable asset to the Group.
Dominic Rothwell
Managing Director,
SureCare
Dominic has full operational and 
strategic responsibility for the 
management and development of 
the franchise network and telecare
service. He commenced his health 
service career in the 1980s, working 
as a Registered Nurse in Central 
Manchester before moving into 
the commercial sector. Prior to his 
move to SureCare, he acted as the 
Operations Director of Advantage 
Healthcare Group, maintaining 
operational responsibility for their 
branches and supply relationships, 
and was a member of the 
management buy-in team when the 
business was acquired from BUPA. 
Dominic has also undertaken the roles 
of Managing Director of Direct Medical 
Services, a subsidiary of Care UK 
Plc, and Deputy Managing Director 
of Allied Healthcare — both major 
providers of domiciliary care services
in the UK.
Gareth Williams
Managing Director,
Primary Care Training Group
Gareth joined Claimar in March 2006, 
bringing experience of learning and 
development in a variety of different 
organisations, from not-for-proﬁt
organisations to large private 
companies. He began his career in 
the Civil Service before moving into 
the care sector in 1991. After senior 
management roles in ﬁnance, business
development and marketing he moved 
into training and development in the 
nursing/residential care sector, as well 
as running his own promotional and 
marketing company. After achieving 
a BA (Hons) in 2000 Gareth joined 
Allied HealthCare as Group Training 
Manager, successfully bringing in over 
£1m of training funding. CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
12
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
“A family of carers make a real difference in the quality of life for the 
elderly, vulnerable and disabled people”
The Claimar Directors consider some of the
relevant questions shareholders and
investors may have.
Question: How do you think that the domiciliary care
market will develop over the next few years?
Answer from Karen McGrady I foresee the continuation of three 
trends. Firstly, the government will continue to promote the provision 
of care to people in their own homes, rather than in residential care 
homes, because it not only provides better outcomes for services users 
but is also more cost-effective for Local Authorities. Secondly, in line 
with the government’s drive for greater efﬁ ciencies in public spending,
Local Authorities will continue to outsource more of their care provision 
to fewer, larger, independent providers. Finally, the introduction of Direct 
Payments and Individual Budgets means that a growing number of 
service users will be able to exercise more choice over their service 
provider.
Claimar Care is well placed for all of these developments. As one of the 
six largest providers, we are well known to both Local Authorities and 
service users as an established, respected brand, providing a reliable, 
cost-effective service.
Question: What are the beneﬁ ts to the Group of having
Complete within the portfolio?
Answer from David Burton Complete provides specialist care services 
to people with complex needs. Typical patients come to us in their 30s, 
often as a result of a trafﬁ c accident or sporting injury. The care packages
we provide are typically funded by the NHS and are high value, long-
term, open ended contracts. In our Complex division, the average annual 
value of packages taken on in the last three months is £212,000. The 
long-term nature of these contracts provides the Group with greater 
certainty of revenue streams into the future.
1 Amanda Brettell
HR Director
2 Karen McGrady
Operations Director (North), Claimar Care Ltd
3 Gareth Williams
MD, Primary Care Training Group
4 Dominic Rothwell
MD, SureCare
5 Raj Chandarana 
MD, PharmAssured
6 David Burton
MD, Complete Group
The Panel:
2
1
4
6
5
3 13
www.claimar.co.uk
Question: What are the key beneﬁ ts that PharmAssured is
able to offer to users of its services?
Answer from Raj Chandarana PharmAssured provides a better,
simpler and safer way for its service users to receive prescription drugs. 
The service was established as the Group wanted to be certain that its 
medication procedures were as good as possible, and then realised 
that it was also possible to generate a revenue stream by providing 
medication services to the Group’s existing service users.
The service is free to users. Our dispensing centre can send prescription 
drugs via the Claimar branch network to service users. PharmAssured 
staff prepare a service user’s prescription in an easy-to-use weekly 
medication care pack, with the drugs for each time of each day stored in 
a separate compartment, and clear instructions on the pack for the use 
of each drug. This makes it much easier for service users, carers and 
regulators to be conﬁ dent that medication is being properly controlled.
In addition, there is a dedicated pharmacy careline to support care 
providers and service users with any medication queries. PharmAssured 
staff can also provide free medicine use reviews to improve service users’ 
knowledge of the drugs they are taking and to identify any possible side 
effects.
Question: How does Primary Care help the Group?
Answer from Gareth Williams Primary Care provides training to carers 
in the health and social care sector. Rather like PharmAssured, the Group 
wanted to be certain that its own carers were receiving excellent training, 
and then realised that it was also possible to generate a revenue stream 
by providing the training through a subsidiary company.
Government funding is available for three-day induction courses and for 
NVQs in social care. Induction courses are mandatory for all workers 
joining the care sector, and 50% of the workforce must have attained, 
or be studying for, an NVQ2. Given the large numbers of care staff 
employed by the Group, and the staff turnover levels in the care sector, 
it can be seen that there is a large volume of training which needs to 
be provided. The fact that Primary Care receives Government funding 
to train carers for other Group companies means that the Group as a 
whole is receiving both well-trained carers and a reliable revenue stream. 
In addition, Primary Care provides an increasing amount of training to 
external companies.
In addition, the independent market is relatively under-developed. 
Complete is one of the top three providers of these services. With 
increasing cost pressures on public expenditure in general and the NHS 
in particular, we believe that the NHS will be looking to increase the 
number of care packages which it outsources to the independent sector, 
and we believe that Complete will be able to grow its service user base 
signiﬁ cantly.
Question: What improvements have been made to staff 
recruitment and retention, and what further improvements 
are planned?
Answer from Amanda Brettell In Complete, over the last couple of 
months, we have been able to reduce the level of expenditure on agency 
staff by 50%. This has been achieved by ensuring that the care team for 
each service user is adequately staffed, and also by creating an internal 
rapid response team, the members of which are able to work across the 
country at short notice. The growth in the number of carers employed 
also means that we are now able to take on more care packages, 
enabling the business to grow.
We are creating a centralised recruitment team, capable of processing 
applicants for all companies in the Group. In the past, due to recruitment 
having been dealt with by separate teams in each business, we have 
been guilty of turning away candidates from one business without 
being aware that they may have been suitable for vacancies in another 
business. We are reviewing the stages by which applicants move through 
the recruitment process, from initial application, through interview and 
compliance, to induction. We are redeﬁ ning this process to ensure 
greater efﬁ ciency and a better conversion rate between applicants and 
starters.
Question: What impact has the credit crunch had on 
SureCare, and how has it responded?
Answer from Dominic Rothwell The tightening of the credit market 
has made it more difﬁ cult for potential franchisees to access sufﬁ cient 
ﬁ nance (either via bank loans or remortgaging their property) to 
purchase a franchise and fund the working capital requirements of a 
growing business. We have therefore restructured the payment terms 
for the franchise fee. It used to be the case that all of the £25k fee was 
payable upfront. Seventy per cent of this is now taken in three separate 
payments, typically over a six month period. The balance of 30% is then 
spread over 12 monthly payments, so that franchisees can make the 
payments once their franchise is generating income.
Since making these change, ﬁ ve franchises have been sold in ﬁ ve 
months, compared with only one in the preceding seven month period, 
and we now have a strong pipeline of enquiries.
“At Claimar our mission is simply explained — providing excellent 
care for vulnerable people at home by using expertly trained staff”
What are the key beneﬁ ts that PharmAssured is 
able to offer to users of its services?
Answer from Raj Chandarana 
simpler and safer way for its service users to receive prescription drugs. 
The service was established as the Group wanted to be certain that its 
medication procedures were as good as possible, and then realised 
that it was also possible to generate a revenue stream by providing 
medication services to the Group’s existing service users.
The service is free to users. Our dispensing centre can send prescription 
drugs via the Claimar branch network to service users. PharmAssured 
staff prepare a service user’s prescription in an easy-to-use weekly 
The service is free to users. Our dispensing centre can send prescription  CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
14
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Directors present their report together with the ﬁ nancial statements for the year ended 30 September 2008. This year’s report presents 
the annual results for the ﬁ rst time using the recognition and measurement principles of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as 
adopted by the European Union. A reconciliation of the results previously reported under UK ﬁ nancial reporting standards (UK GAAP) and IFRS 
is set out in note 22 to the ﬁ nancial statements. The Group’s accounting policies under IFRS are set out in more detail on pages 26 to 30.
ACTIVITIES
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of care services to the public sector and private individuals.
The principal activity of the Company is to act as a holding company.
BUSINESS REVIEW
The Group’s results for the year ended 30 September 2008 and the percentage change from the previous year are shown below:
Revenue £52.62m +135.8%
Operating proﬁ t before amortisation and acquisition related costs £4.35m +84.5%
Proﬁ t before taxation* £2.95m +38.5%
Proﬁ t after taxation† £1.64m +19.7%
Adjusted basic earnings per share* 4.26p -29.7%
Basic earnings per share 1.14p -75.2%
Operating cash ﬂ ows before movements in working capital £4.25m +90.7%
The majority of the Group’s trade is contracted with local authorities and NHS Primary Care Trusts. Revenue increased by 135.8% over the 
prior year. The main growth in revenue is attributable to the two acquisitions completed in the year, the full year impact of the eight acquisitions 
completed in the previous year, and organic revenue growth of 4.29%.
Operating proﬁ t before amortisation and acquisition related costs increased by 84.5% over the prior year. The increase was for the same 
reasons as the increase in revenue.
The charge for amortisation of intangible assets was £1.51m (2007: £0.24m). The increase was caused by the increase in customer related 
assets arising from the acquisition of the Complete Group. Such assets are amortised over a period of between seven and ten years.
Proﬁ t before taxation* was £2.95m, an increase of 38.5% over the prior year. The percentage increase was less than that achieved for revenue 
and operating proﬁ t before amortisation and acquisition related costs. This was because of the increase in net ﬁ nance costs, which increased 
from £0.26m in 2007 to £1.44m in 2008. The increase was caused by the £9.66m increase in long-term borrowings, as additional borrowings 
were obtained to part ﬁ nance the two acquisitions made during the year. Net debt as at 30 September 2008 was £20.08m (2007: £9.23m).
Adjusted basic earnings per share* reduced by 29.7% to 4.26p. Although adjusted earnings (see note 8 to the ﬁ nancial statements) increased 
by 31% to £2.07m (2007: £1.58m), the issuing of shares to part ﬁ nance the two acquisitions made during the year had a dilutive effect. The 
reported proﬁ t after taxation for the year was £0.55m (2007: £1.19m) which equates to a basic earnings per share for the year of 1.14p 
(2007: 4.59p).
Operating cash ﬂ ows before movements in working capital were £4.25m, a 90.7% increase since the prior year (2007: £2.23m). Increases in 
working capital, partly caused by the two acquisitions made during the year, and in ﬁ nance costs resulted in a net cash outﬂ ow from operating 
activities of £0.21m (2007: inﬂ ow of £0.89m). The net cash outﬂ ow from investing activities was £35.29m (2007: £15.14m). Net cash inﬂ ows 
from ﬁ nancing activities were £33.31m (2007: £14.36m), resulting in an overall decrease in cash and cash equivalents of £2.19m (2007: 
£0.12m increase).
*  Before share-based payment charge, amortisation, acquisition and IFRS conversion related costs, and fair value movement on derivative ﬁ nancial instruments.
† Before amortisation and associated deferred taxation. 15
www.claimar.co.uk
The consolidated balance sheet on page 23 shows that, with the shares issued in October 2007, consolidated net assets have increased from 
£13.99m at 30 September 2007 to £40.58m at 30 September 2008.
A detailed review of the activities of the Group can be found in the Chairman’s Statement on pages 4 to 5 and the Chief Executive’s Review on 
pages 6 to 9.
DIRECTORS
The following Directors have held ofﬁ ce, unless otherwise stated, from 1 October 2007 to the date of this report.
JRA Crabtree
M Hales
D Jackson (resigned 8 May 2008)
JGI Moore
NA Townend (appointed 11 August 2008)
M Hales and NA Townend retire as Directors at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
DIVIDEND
There was no interim dividend payment during the year (2007: 0.25p per share, amounting to £75,000). The Directors do not recommend the 
payment of a ﬁ nal dividend (2007: 0.5p per share, amounting to £250,000).
SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY
It is the Group’s policy to agree payment terms with suppliers at the outset of the contract and abide by those terms. The payment period of 
the Group at 30 September 2008 was 48 days (30 September 2007: 28 days).
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS
During the year the Group made no political or charitable donations (2007: £Nil).
EMPLOYEES
Quarterly meetings are held between senior management and employee representatives to discuss matters of concern.
Employees are kept well informed about the progress and position of the Group by means of regular departmental meetings, newsletters and 
journals.
The Group’s policy is to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their 
particular aptitudes and abilities.
Disabled employees receive appropriate training to promote their career development within the Group. Employees who become disabled are 
retained in their existing posts where possible or retrained for suitable alternative posts.
INFORMATION TO AUDITORS
In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the Company at the date when this report was approved:
l so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information (as deﬁ ned in the Companies Act 1985) of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware; and
l each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information (as deﬁ ned) and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
16
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ INDEMNITY
The Group had Directors’ and Ofﬁ cers’ Insurance in place throughout the year.
TREASURY MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Group’s ﬁ nancial instruments include all assets and liabilities of a ﬁ nancial nature, such as borrowings, cash and various items such as 
trade receivables and trade payables that arise directly from its operations. The main purpose of these ﬁ nancial instruments is to fund the 
Group’s operations, including the management of working capital and liquidity, enabling it to operate effectively and to pay its obligations as 
they 
fall due.
The Group’s objectives are to use ﬁ nancial instruments to reduce the cost of capital while avoiding exposing the Group to excessive ﬁ nancial 
risk and providing a sufﬁ cient element of certainty in respect of ﬁ nancial outﬂ ows.
The Group has no material exposure to foreign currency risks.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in ﬁ nancial instruments is undertaken.
Full details of the Group’s ﬁ nancial instruments and their use in managing the ﬁ nancial risks facing the Group are provided in note 19 to the 
ﬁ nancial statements on pages 43 to 46.
AUDITORS
A resolution to reappoint Mazars LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approved by and signed by order of the Board on 18 December 2008
NA Townend
Company Secretary 17
www.claimar.co.uk
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Board supports the principles of good governance contained within the 2006 Financial Reporting Council Combined Code.
Companies that have securities traded on AIM are not required to comply with the disclosures of the code. Claimar Care Group Plc is, 
however, committed to high standards of corporate governance and has adopted procedures to institute good governance in so far as it is 
practical and appropriate for a company of its size.
BOARD
The Company is controlled by the Board of Directors, which comprises two Executive and two Non-Executive Directors. The Board of 
Directors has a schedule of matters speciﬁ cally reserved for its decision. The Board meets regularly and is responsible for formulating the 
Group’s corporate strategy, monitoring ﬁ nancial performance, acquisitions, treasury and risk management policies. Board papers are sent 
out to all Directors in advance of each Board meeting including management accounts and accompanying reports from the Executive 
Directors. Annual budgets are approved by the full Board. Operational control is delegated by the Board to the Executive Directors. Non-
Executive Directors are able to contact the Executive Directors at any time for further information. All Directors have access to the advice of the 
Company Secretary and can take independent advice, if necessary, at the Company’s expense.
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board has established an Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committee with formally delegated duties and responsibilities.
A) AUDIT COMMITTEE
JGI Moore, a Non-Executive Director, is Chairman of the Audit Committee, which also comprises JRA Crabtree, a Non-Executive Director. 
The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year and is responsible for ensuring that the ﬁ nancial performance of the Group is properly 
monitored and reported on and for meeting the auditors and reviewing reports from the auditors relating to accounts and internal control 
systems.
B) REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by JGI Moore, a Non-Executive Director, and also comprises JRA Crabtree, a Non-Executive Director. 
The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of the Executive Directors, sets the scale and structure of their remuneration and 
reviews the basis for their service agreements with due regard to the interests of shareholders.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage 
rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve the business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. The system of internal ﬁ nancial control comprises those controls established in order to provide reasonable 
assurance of:
l the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised use or disposal; and
l the maintenance of proper accounting records and the reliability of ﬁ nancial information used within the business and for publication.
The key procedures of internal ﬁ nancial control of the Group are as follows:
l The Board reviews and approves budgets and monitors performance against those budgets on a monthly basis. Variances from the 
expected outcome are fully investigated.
l The Group has clearly deﬁ ned reporting and authorisation procedures relating to the key ﬁ nancial areas.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Company holds regular meetings with its institutional shareholders to discuss objectives and to keep them updated on the Company’s 
strategy, Board membership and management.
GOING CONCERN
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing 
the ﬁ nancial statements. CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
18
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Whilst not mandatory for an AIM-listed company, the Directors have produced a Directors’ Remuneration Report. This report is not intended to 
comply with the provisions of Schedule 7a to the Companies Act 1985.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee considers and approves on behalf of the Board and the shareholders the conditions of service of the Chairman, 
Directors and senior employees.
REMUNERATION POLICY
The objective is to provide remuneration packages with which to attract, retain and motivate the highest calibre Executive Directors and which 
are in the best interests of the shareholders. There are three main elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors and senior 
employees.
(i) Basic salaries
Basic salaries are determined by the Remuneration Committee, taking into account the performance of the individual and the rates for similar 
positions in comparable companies. 
(ii) Share option schemes
The Company operates an approved share option scheme (under the Enterprise Management Initiative (EMI) legislation) and has also granted 
individual unapproved options to certain Directors.
The approved share option scheme is overseen by the Remuneration Committee which determines the terms under which eligible individuals 
may be invited to participate.
(iii) Bonus scheme
The Group operates a bonus scheme for Executive Directors based on the performance of each Director, having regard to key business 
issues. Bonuses are not pensionable.
The Group did not operate a pension scheme for the beneﬁ t of Executive Directors during the year.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Board, in which matter the Non-Executive Directors play no part.
DIRECTORS’ SERVICE CONTRACTS
All Executive Directors are employed under service contracts. The services of all Directors may be terminated by the provision of a maximum 
of twelve months’ notice by the Company. 19
www.claimar.co.uk
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
 Total Total
 Salary/fees Salary/fees
 2008 2007
 £’000 £’000
JRA Crabtree 37 35
A Guest – 72
M Hales 176 173
D Jackson 97 17
JGI Moore 21 20
NA Townend 17 –
 348 317
Included in the remuneration of M Hales is a bonus of £Nil (2007: £55,000) in accordance with the terms of his service contract.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company as at 30 September 2008 according to the register of Directors’ interests were:
 Number of Number of
 ordinary ordinary
 shares at shares at
 30 September 30 September
 2008 2007
JRA Crabtree 221,667 41,667
M Hales 9,550,000 5,300,000
JGI Moore 117,778 27,778
NA Townend 41,000 –
There were no changes in Directors’ shareholdings between 30 September 2008 and the date of this report.
DIRECTORS’ SHARE OPTIONS — NUMBER OF ORDINARY SHARES
Details of the options of Directors who served during the year are as follow:
 As at Lapsed As at
 30 Sept 8 May 30 Sept Exercise Exercisable Exercisable
 2007 2008 2008 price from to
Approved under EMI legislation
M Hales 138,888 – 138,888 72.0p 31 Jan 09 31 Jan 16
D Jackson 72,727 (72,727) – 137.5p 22 Aug 10 22 Aug 17
Unapproved
M Hales 208,332 – 208,332 72.0p 31 Jan 09 31 Jan 16
D Jackson 7,273 (7,273) – 137.5p 22 Aug 10 22 Aug 17
The market price of ordinary shares as at 30 September 2008 was 10.75p and the range during the year was 6.5p to 156.0p.
The options held by M Hales lapsed on 1 October 2008 as the vesting conditions were not met. There were no other changes in the Directors' 
share options between 30 September 2008 and the date of this report.
On behalf of the Board
JGI Moore
Chairman Remuneration Committee
18 December 2008
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
20
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
Company law requires the Directors to prepare ﬁ nancial statements for each ﬁ nancial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Company and the Group and of the proﬁ t or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing those ﬁ nancial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
l select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
l make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
l comply with applicable accounting standards subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the ﬁ nancial statements; and
l prepare the ﬁ nancial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in 
business.
The Directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁ nancial 
position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the ﬁ nancial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 21
www.claimar.co.uk
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
We have audited the ﬁ nancial statements of Claimar Care Group Plc for the year ended 30 September 2008 which comprise the consolidated 
income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated cash ﬂ ow statement 
and the related notes as set out on pages 22 to 51. These ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out 
therein.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company 
and the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS
As described in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities, the Company’s Directors are responsible for the preparation of ﬁ nancial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
Our responsibility is to audit the ﬁ nancial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the ﬁ nancial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 1985 and whether the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the ﬁ nancial statements. We also report to 
you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit, or if information speciﬁ ed by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited ﬁ nancial statements. The 
other information comprises only the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review, the Corporate Governance Statement and the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material 
inconsistencies with the ﬁ nancial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An 
audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁ nancial statements. It also includes an 
assessment of the signiﬁ cant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the ﬁ nancial statements, and of whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide 
us with sufﬁ cient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the ﬁ nancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the 
ﬁ nancial statements.
OPINION
In our opinion:
l the ﬁ nancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union, of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 30 September 2008 and of the Group’s proﬁ t for the year then ended;
l the ﬁ nancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
l the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the ﬁ nancial statements.
MAZARS LLP
Chartered Accountants
and Registered Auditors
Birmingham 
18 December 2008
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
22
    2008 2007
   Notes £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Revenue   1 52,617 22,318
Cost of sales    (36,065) (14,055)
Gross proﬁ t    16,552 8,263
Administrative expenses    (12,207) (5,908)
Operating proﬁ t before amortisation and acquisition related costs   4,345 2,355
Amortisation of intangible assets    (1,507) (243)
Proﬁ t on sale of freehold premises     –  97
Reorganisation and restructuring costs    (309) (359)
Professional fees related to aborted acquisitions    (76) (5)
IFRS conversion costs     (33)   – 
Operating proﬁ t    2,420 1,845
Finance income   2 23 64
Finance costs   3 (1,467) (321)
Fair value movement on derivative ﬁ nancial instruments    (77)  – 
Proﬁ t before taxation   4 899 1,588
Taxation   6 (346) (394)
Proﬁ t for the year attributable to the equity holders of the parent   553 1,194
Basic earnings per share   8 1.14p 4.59p
Fully diluted earnings per share   8 1.14p 4.54p
Adjusted basic earnings per share   8 4.26p 6.06p
    
   Notes 
Continuing operations
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
For the year ended 30 September 2008 23
www.claimar.co.uk
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
At 30 September 2008
    2008 2007
   Notes £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill   10 42,921 18,818
Other intangible assets   10 14,823 3,571
Property, plant and equipment   11 963 689
Deferred tax asset   16  84  9
    58,791 23,087
Current assets
Trade and other receivables   12 10,666 5,509
Cash and cash equivalents    362 630
    11,028 6,139
Total assets    69,819 29,226
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities   14 (4,592) (1,465)
Trade and other payables   13 (4,491) (4,115)
Current tax liabilities    (717) (287)
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments    (77)  – 
    (9,877) (5,867)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities   15 (15,850) (8,395)
Deferred tax liabilities   16 (3,510) (978)
    (19,360) (9,373)
Total liabilities    (29,237) (15,240)
Net assets    40,582 13,986
Equity
Share capital   17 4,999 3,011
Share premium account    34,793 10,533
Share-based payment reserve    92 47
Merger reserve    (1,600) (1,600)
Retained earnings    2,298 1,995
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent    40,582 13,986
The ﬁ nancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 18 December 2008.
M Hales NA Townend
Chief Executive Group Finance Director
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these ﬁ nancial statements. CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
24
   Share-
  Share based
 Share premium payment Merger Retained
 capital account reserve reserve earnings Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 October 2006 2,232 3,255 17 (1,600) 988 4,892
Total recognised income 
and expense  –   –   –   –  1,194 1,194
Dividends paid  –   –   –   –  (187) (187)
Share-based payment 
reserve movement – – 30 – – 30
Issue of shares in the year  779  7,278  –   –   –  8,057
At 30 September 2007 3,011 10,533 47 (1,600) 1,995 13,986
Total recognised income 
and expense  –   –   –   –  553 553
Dividends paid  –   –   –   –  (250) (250)
Share-based payment  
reserve movement – – 45 – – 45
Issue of shares in the year  1,988  24,260  –   –   –  26,248
At 30 September 2008 4,999 34,793 92 (1,600) 2,298 40,582
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
At 30 September 2008 www.claimar.co.uk
25
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
For the year ended 30 September 2008
    2008 2007
   Notes £’000 £’000
Cash ﬂ ows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations   21 2,312 1,962
Finance income     23   64 
Finance costs     (1,467)   (321) 
Corporation tax    (1,081)  (813) 
Net cash ﬂ ows (used in)/from operating activities    (213) 892
Cash ﬂ ows used in investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired    (33,669) (14,122)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment    (337) (232)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment    – 189
Payments in respect of previous acquisitions    (1,286) (973)
Net cash ﬂ ows used in investing activities    (35,292) (15,138)
Cash ﬂ ows from ﬁ nancing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital    23,955 7,058
Proceeds of long-term borrowings    9,655 7,544
Repayment of obligations under ﬁ nance lease liabilities    (50) (51)
Payment of dividends    (250) (187)
Net cash ﬂ ows from ﬁ nancing activities    33,310 14,364
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents    (2,195) 118
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year    177 59
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year    (2,018) 177 CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
26
General information
Claimar Care Group PLC is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom, whose shares are publicly traded on AIM. 
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of care services to the public sector and private individuals.
Basis of accounting
The ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, modiﬁ ed to include the fair valuation of derivative ﬁ nancial 
instruments. The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all years presented in this consolidated annual 
report and in preparing an opening International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) balance sheet at 1 October 2006 for the purposes 
of the transition to IFRS.
Basis of preparation
For all years to 30 September 2007 the Group prepared its audited ﬁ nancial statements under UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles (UK GAAP). For the year ended 30 September 2008 the Group is required to prepare its annual consolidated ﬁ nancial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards adopted for use in the European Union (“IFRS”).
These ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out below, taking into account the 
requirements and options in IFRS 1 “First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards” (IFRS 1), as detailed below. The 
transition date for the Group’s application of IFRS is 1 October 2006 and the comparative ﬁ gures for 30 September 2007 have been 
restated accordingly. Reconciliations of the proﬁ t and loss, equity and cash ﬂ ows from previously reported UK GAAP to IFRS are shown in 
note 22.
Transition to IFRS
IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS in the transition period. The following exemptions have been taken in 
these consolidated ﬁ nancial statements:
i. IFRS 3 — Business Combinations
The Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” retrospectively to acquisitions that took place prior to 
1 October 2006. As a result, the carrying amount of goodwill in the UK GAAP balance sheet at 30 September 2006 is brought 
forward to the IFRS opening balance sheet without adjustment. 
ii.  IFRS 2 — Share-Based Payment 
IFRS 2 has not been applied to share-based payments granted before 7 November 2002 nor those granted after 7 November 2002 
that had vested prior to 1 October 2006.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated ﬁ nancial statements incorporate those of Claimar Care Group Plc and all of its subsidiary undertakings for the year, 
made up to 30 September each year.
In preparing the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements, any intra-Group balances, unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising 
from intra-Group trading are eliminated. Where accounting policies used in individual ﬁ nancial statements of a subsidiary company differ 
from Group policies, adjustments are made to bring these policies into line with Group policies.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the ﬁ nancial and operating policies to obtain economic beneﬁ t 
to the Group. Subsidiary companies acquired during the year are consolidated using the purchase method. The results of subsidiary 
companies acquired are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
For the year ended 30 September 2008 www.claimar.co.uk
27
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed 
at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition. Identiﬁ able assets acquired and liabilities and contingent 
liabilities assumed in a business combination are initially measured at fair value at the acquisition date.
The excess of cost of acquisition over the fair values of the Group’s share of identiﬁ able net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. 
Any deﬁ ciency of the cost of acquisition below the fair value of identiﬁ able net assets acquired (i.e. discount on acquisition) is recognised 
directly in the Income Statement.
Revenue recognition
Group revenue is the fair value of the consideration received or receivable by the Group for services provided in the normal course of 
business, excluding VAT and trade discounts.
Revenue generated in Claimar Care Group Plc is primarily attributable to the provision of home care services. 
Interest income is accrued on a time-apportioned basis, by reference to the principal outstanding, at the effective interest rate applicable.
Goodwill and intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisitions, being the excess of the fair value of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the 
identiﬁ able assets and liabilities acquired, is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually. 
Intangible assets recognised as part of business combinations
The Group makes an assessment of the fair value of intangible assets arising on business combinations. An intangible asset will be 
recognised as long as the asset meets the identiﬁ ability criteria in accordance with IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ and its fair value can be 
measured reliably. Amortisation is provided on the deemed cost to the Group and calculated on a straight-line basis over its useful life. 
Those intangible assets which are considered to have an indeﬁ nite useful life are not amortised but are subject to annual impairment 
review.
Customer related assets  7–10 years
Brands  Indeﬁ nite
Computer software costs
Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item of computer hardware, the software is treated as an intangible asset. 
Computer software is treated as an intangible asset and is capitalised on the basis of costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the 
speciﬁ c software. Amortisation is provided by equal annual instalments over its expected useful life of three years, down to its 
residual value.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of the assets on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows. No 
depreciation is charged on the Group’s freehold property as the carrying value is supported by an impairment review.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
For the year ended 30 September 2008 CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
28
Long-term leasehold property Over the period of the lease
Fixtures and ﬁ ttings  20% straight-line
Ofﬁ ce equipment  33% straight-line
Motor vehicles  25% straight-line
Impairment of assets
At each balance sheet date the Group reviews the carrying value of its property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine 
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists the recoverable amount of 
the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss.
Goodwill and other intangible assets with indeﬁ nite lives are reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable 
amount of the cash generating unit (or group of cash generating units) to which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the 
generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the cash generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated, an impairment loss is 
recognised. 
Where the asset does not generate cash ﬂ ows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of 
the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. A cash generating unit is the smallest identiﬁ able group of assets that generates 
cash inﬂ ows that are largely independent of the cash inﬂ ows from other assets or groups of assets.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use the estimated future cash 
ﬂ ows are discounted to their present value using a discount rate that reﬂ ects currently market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks speciﬁ c to the asset, for which the estimates of future cash ﬂ ows have not been adjusted. 
Except in the case of goodwill, an impairment loss is only reversed if there is a subsequent increase in the recoverable amount that can 
be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised. An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not 
subsequently reversed.
Leasing
Leases are classiﬁ ed as ﬁ nance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
Group. All other leases are classiﬁ ed as operating leases.
Assets held under ﬁ nance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum 
lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a ﬁ nance 
lease obligation. The interest element of leasing payments represents a constant proportion of the capital balance outstanding and is 
charged to the income statement over the period of the lease.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax expense and deferred tax expense.
The corporation tax payable is based on an estimation of the amount due on the taxable proﬁ t for the year. Taxable proﬁ t is different from 
net proﬁ t as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expenditure which are not taxable or deductible 
in the year as a result of either the nature of the item or the fact that it is taxable or deductible in another period. The Group’s liability for 
current tax is calculated by using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
For the year ended 30 September 2008 www.claimar.co.uk
29
Deferred tax is accounted for on the basis of temporary differences arising from the differences between the tax base and accounting 
base of assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax is recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except to the extent where it arises from the initial recognition of an 
asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination. Deferred tax is not provided for on the initial recognition of goodwill. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable proﬁ ts will be available against which temporary 
differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in 
which case it is dealt with within equity. It is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised 
or the liability is settled.
Financial instruments
Financial assets or liabilities are recognised when, and only when, the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the 
instrument.
Trade and other receivables 
Trade receivables do not carry interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts. Trade receivables are initially measured at fair value and thereafter at their amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and at bank. For the purpose of the cash ﬂ ow statement, cash and cash equivalents 
includes overdrafts.
Financial liability and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classiﬁ ed according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An 
equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges are allocated 
to the income statement using an effective interest rate, on the outstanding carrying value of the instrument.
Trade and other payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are initially measured at fair value and thereafter at their amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the ﬁ nancial risks of changes in interest rates. The Group uses interest rate swap contracts to 
manage these exposures. 
Interest rate swaps held by the Group do not quality for hedge accounting; therefore, changes in the fair value of these derivative 
instruments are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Share-based payments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, whereby employees render services in exchange for share 
options. Where employees are rewarded using share-based payments, the fair values of employees’ services are determined indirectly by 
reference to the fair value of the instrument granted to the employee. This fair value is appraised at the grant date using an option-pricing 
model (Black–Scholes).
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
For the year ended 30 September 2008 CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
30
Equity-settled share-based payments are expensed in the income statement with a corresponding credit to share-based payment 
reserve. Upon exercise of share options, the proceeds received net of attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and, 
where appropriate, share premium.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are not yet effective
Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards applicable to the Group have been published that are 
mandatory for the Group’s accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2008 or later periods but which the Group has not early 
adopted, as follows:
IAS 1, Presentation of ﬁ nancial statements, revised 2007 (effective 1 January 2009)
IAS 1, Presentation of ﬁ nancial statements, revised 2008 (effective 1 January 2009)
IAS 23, Borrowing Costs, revised 2007 (effective 1 January 2009)
IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, revised 2008 (effective 1 July 2009)
IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, revised 2008 (effective 1 January 2009)
IAS 28, Investment in Associates, revised 2008 (effective 1 July 2009)
IAS 31, Interests in Joint Ventures, revised 2008 (effective 1 July 2009)
IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation, revised 2008 (effective 1 January 2009)
IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, revised 2008 (effective 1 July 2009) 
IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, revised 2008 (effective 1 January 2009)
IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, revised 2008 (effective 1 January 2009)
IFRS 3, Business Combinations, revised 2008 (effective 1 January 2009)
IFRS 8, Operating Segments (effective 1 January 2009)
IFRIC 12, Service Concession Agreement (effective 1 January 2008)
IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes (effective 1 July 2008)
IFRIC 14, IAS 19, The Limit of a Deﬁ ned Beneﬁ t Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction (effective 1 January 2008)
IFRIC 15, Agreement for the Construction of Real Estate (effective 1 January 2009)
IFRIC 16, Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation (effective 1 October 2008)
IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners (effective 1 July 2009)
The Directors also do not consider that the adoption of the amendments resulting from the May 2008 Annual Improvements project will 
result in a material impact on the ﬁ nancial information of the Group. These amendments are effective for accounting periods beginning on 
or after 1 January 2009, with the exception of the amendment to IFRS 5 which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 
1 July 2009.
Critical accounting judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about 
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions 
are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and those that have a signiﬁ cant risk of causing a material 
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next ﬁ nancial year are described below.
Business combinations
The valuation of customer related intangibles and adjustments as permitted under the hindsight period are based on a number of 
assumptions including customer retention and growth rate. Further details are included in the intangible assets accounting policy and in 
note 10 to the ﬁ nancial statements.
Impairment
The impairment tests require a number of assumptions and judgements to be made. An explanation of these judgements and estimates 
is detailed in the impairment accounting policy.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
For the year ended 30 September 2008 www.claimar.co.uk
31
1 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION
For management purposes the Group is currently organised into three operating divisions:
Domiciliary Care — providing high volume services largely for older people funded primarily by Local Authorities
Specialist Care — the provision of services to people with an acquired brain or spinal cord injury
Other activities — mainly the provision of support to franchisees, Rapid Response alarm services and training
Those items of income or expense, asset or liability which arise from the provision of central management services to the  Group are not 
allocated to the Group’s operating divisions but are shown separately in Corporate Services.
All of the Group’s operations are located in the United Kingdom.
Year ended 30 September 2008
 Domiciliary Specialist Other Corporate
 Care Care Activities Services Consolidated
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue 31,945 19,177 1,495  –  52,617
Cost of sales (21,679) (14,097) (289)  –  (36,065)
Administrative expenses (6,774) (3,032) (799) (1,602) (12,207)
Operating proﬁ t before amortisation and
acquisition related costs 3,492  2,048   407   (1,602)  4,345
Amortisation of intangible ﬁ xed assets (611)  (810)   (86)   –  (1,507)
Reorganisation and restructuring costs –  –   –   (309)  (309)
Fees related to aborted acquisitions –  –   –   (76)  (76)
IFRS conversion costs –  –   –   (33)  (33)
Operating proﬁ t 2,881 1,238 321 (2,020) 2,420
Finance income  –   –   –  23 23
Finance costs  –   –   –  (1,467) (1,467)
Fair value movement on derivative 
ﬁ nancial instruments  –   –   –  (77) (77)
Proﬁ t before tax 2,881 1,238 321 (3,541) 899
Taxation  –   –   –  (346) (346)
Proﬁ t for the year 2,881 1,238 321 (3,887) 553
Year ended 30 September 2007
 Domiciliary Specialist Other Corporate
 Care Care Activities Services Consolidated
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue  20,826   –   1,492   –   22,318 
Cost of sales  (13,395)   –   (660)   –   (14,055) 
Administrative expenses  (4,430)   –   (466)   (1,012)   (5,908) 
Operating proﬁ t before amortisation and
acquisition related costs  3,001   –   366   (1,012)   2,355
Reorganisation and restructuring costs  –   –   –   (359)   (359) 
Fees related to aborted acquisitions –  –   –   (5)   (5) 
Proﬁ t on sale of freehold premises  –   –   –   97   97 
Amortisation of intangible assets  (157)   –   (86)  –   (243) 
Operating proﬁ t  2,844   –   280   (1,279)   1,845 
Finance income  –   –   –   64   64 
Finance costs  –   –   –   (321)   (321) 
Proﬁ t before tax  2,844   –   280   (1,536)  1,588 
Taxation  –   –   –   (394)   (394) 
Proﬁ t for the year  2,844   –   280   (1,930)  1,194 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008 CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
32
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008
1 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
Year ended 30 September 2008
 Domiciliary Specialist Other Corporate
 Care Care Activities Services Consolidated
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance Sheet
Assets  27,407   32,431   1,218   8,763   69,819 
Liabilities  4,430   6,757   –   18,050   29,237 
Year ended 30 September 2007
 Domiciliary Specialist Other Corporate
 Care Care Activities Services Consolidated
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance Sheet
Assets  25,411   –   1,761   2,054   29,226 
Liabilities  6,840   –   5   8,395   15,240 
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and other operating assets.
Segment liabilities consist primarily of operating liabilities.
Year ended 30 September 2008
 Domiciliary Specialist Other Corporate
 Care Care Activities Services Consolidated
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Capital expenditure  298   26   13   –   337 
Depreciation charge  176   64   25   –   265 
Year ended 30 September 2007
 Domiciliary Specialist Other Corporate
 Care Care Activities Services Consolidated
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Capital expenditure  303   –   –   –   303 
Depreciation charge  182   –   24   –   206  www.claimar.co.uk
33
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008
2 FINANCE INCOME
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Bank interest     23   64 
     23   64 
All ﬁ nance income earned is on ﬁ nancial assets categorised as loans and receivables.
3 FINANCE COSTS
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Bank interest     1,464   314 
Hire purchase and ﬁ nance lease interest     3  7 
    1,467    321
All ﬁ nance costs arise on ﬁ nancial liabilities categorised as other ﬁ nancial liabilities. 
4 PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
The proﬁ t on ordinary activities before taxation is after charging/(crediting):
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment     265  206
Proﬁ t on disposal of property, plant and equipment    – (97)
Operating lease rentals  — property    590 332
  — other    83 12
Amortisation of intangible assets   — customer related/brands   1,507 243
  — software    10 –
Staff costs (note 5)     43,149 17,167
Auditors’ remuneration
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s ﬁ nancial statements   13  5
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for other services to the Group
— Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation    46  36 
Total audit fees     59 41
— Other services pursuant to legislation    12 7
— Tax services     16 6
— Other services     57  7 
Total non-audit fees     85 20
In addition to the fees disclosed above, the auditors charged £88,000 (2007: £46,000) in respect of subsidiaries acquired.  CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
34
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008
5 STAFF COSTS
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Staff costs including Directors’ emoluments: 
Wages and salaries     41,254  15,971
Social security costs     1,829  1,166
Healthcare and life assurance     21 –
Share-based payment costs    45 30
    43,149 17,167
The Group did not incur any pension costs during the year (2007: Nil).
An analysis of the emoluments of the Directors for the year is set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 18 to 19. The audited 
information in this report forms part of the ﬁ nancial statements.
The average number of persons, including executive Directors, employed by the Group during the year was as follows:
    2008 2007
    Number Number
Management and administration     264  148
Care workers     2,553  1,220
     2,817  1,368
6 TAXATION
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Current tax:
UK corporation tax on proﬁ ts of the year    788 439
Adjustment in respect of prior years    55 (60)
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences    (492) 15
Impact of change in UK tax rate    (5) –
    346 394
The tax on the Group’s proﬁ t before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using weighted average tax rate applicable to 
proﬁ ts of the consolidated entities as follows:
Proﬁ t before tax    899 1,588
Tax calculated at domestic tax rate 29% (2007: 30%)   261 476
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes    56 12
Adjustment in respect of prior years    55 (60)
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses    (41)  (18) 
Remeasurement of deferred tax change in UK tax rate   (5) –
Marginal relief on subsidiary undertakings acquired    – (16)
Effect of corporation tax rate change    20 –
Tax charge    346 394 www.claimar.co.uk
35
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008
7 DIVIDENDS
    2008 2007
    £000 £000
Equity ordinary
Interim paid: Nil per 10p share (2007: 0.25p per 10p share)   – 112
Final paid in respect of previous year: 0.5p per 10p share (2007: 0.5p per 10p share)  250  75 
Total dividends paid in the year    250 187
No ﬁ nal dividend is proposed in respect of the year ended 30 September 2008.
8 EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the proﬁ t after tax for the ﬁ nancial year by the weighted average number of shares in 
issue for the year.
The weighted average number of shares in issue used in the basic earnings per share calculation may be reconciled to the number used 
in the diluted earnings per share calculation as follows:
    2008 2007
    Number Number
Basic earnings per share denominator    48,521,112 26,019,013
Issuable on conversion of options    53,593 292,048
Diluted earnings per share denominator    48,574,705 26,311,061
To understand the underlying trading performance the Directors consider it appropriate to disclose earnings both before and after share-
based payment charges, amortisation of intangible assets, acquisition and IFRS conversion related costs and fair value movements on 
derivative ﬁ nancial instruments (“adjusting costs”). This note also therefore presents additional adjusted earnings per share information on 
that basis as follows:    
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Earnings attributable to shareholders    553 1,194
Adjusting costs (net of taxation)    1,513 383
Adjusted earnings attributable to shareholders    2,066 1,577
Basic earnings per share    1.14p 4.59p
Adjusted basic earnings per share    4.26p 6.06p
Fully diluted earnings per share    1.14p 4.54p
Adjusted fully diluted earnings per share    4.25p 6.00p CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
36
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008
9 ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS 
Details of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year were as follows:
Complete Care Group Limited
On 26 October 2007 the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary share capital of Complete Care Group Limited and its subsidiary 
undertakings for a total consideration of £26.4m plus the reﬁ nancing of ﬁ nancial liabilties.
The table below summarises the book values of the major categories of assets and liabilities acquired. The fair value adjustments made to 
book values comprised provisions against old debts and additional corporation tax due.
   Book  Fair value Provisional
   value adjustment fair value
   £’000 £’000 £’000
Intangible assets (net of deferred tax)   –  8,535  8,535
Property, plant and equipment   224  –  224
Receivables   3,459  (265)  3,194
Bank and cash   (120)  –  (120)
Financial liabilities   (6,700) – (6,700)
Corporation tax   (449)  (96)  (545)
Trade payables   (1,142)  –  (1,142)
Net assets/(liabilities) acquired   (4,728) 8,174 3,446
Goodwill arising on consolidation     22,931
Consideration     26,377
Discharged by:
Cash and acquisition costs     23,684
Consideration shares     2,293
Deferred consideration     400
     26,377
Complete Care Group Limited contributed £19,176,694 to revenue and £2,048,268 to the Group’s proﬁ t before tax for the period 
between the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date. If this acquisition had been completed on the ﬁ rst day of the ﬁ nancial year, 
Group revenues for the period would have been £20,844,739 and Group proﬁ t attributable to the equity holders of the parent would have 
been £2,115,917. www.claimar.co.uk
37
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008
9 ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS (CONTINUED) 
Ravenscroft Group Limited
On 22 January 2008 the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary share capital of Ravenscroft Group Limited and its subsidiary undertakings 
for an initial consideration of £2.70m (before costs). 
Deferred consideration of up to £0.35m is payable, if at all, subject to certain performance criteria being met in the period to 
31 March 2009.
The table below summarises the book values of the major categories of assets and liabilities acquired:
   Book  Fair value Provisional
   value adjustment fair value
   £’000 £’000 £’000
Intangibles assets (net of deferred tax)   – 1,237 1,237
Property, plant and equipment   42 – 42
Trade receivables   487  –  487
Corporation tax   (124)  –  (124)
Trade payables   (340) – (340)
Net assets acquired   65 1,237 1,302
Goodwill arising on consolidation     1,522
Consideration     2,824
Discharged by:
Cash and acquisition costs     2,824
     2,824
Ravenscroft Group Limited contributed £3,662,045 to revenue and £641,787 to the Group’s proﬁ t before tax for the period between 
the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date. If this acquisition had been completed on the ﬁ rst day of the ﬁ nancial year, Group 
revenues for the period would have been £5,463,414 and Group proﬁ t attributable to the equity holders of the parent would have 
been £808,478. CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
38
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008
10 INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS
    Customer
  Goodwill Software related/brands Total
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 October 2006  5,269 43 – 5,312
Subsidiary undertakings acquired  13,549 71 3,736 17,356
At 30 September 2007  18,818 114 3,736 22,668
Subsidiary undertakings acquired  24,453 – 12,745 37,198 
Additions   – 65 – 65
Reduction in deferred consideration  (350) – – (350)
At 30 September 2008  42,921 179 16,440 59,540
Amortisation
At 1 October 2006  – 12 – 12
Charge for the year   –   24   243   267 
At 30 September 2007  – 36 243 279
Charge for the year   – 10 1,507 1,517 
At 30 September 2008  – 46 1,750 1,796
Carrying value
At 30 September 2008  42,921 133 14,690 57,744
At 30 September 2007  18,818 78 3,493 22,389
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the cash generating units (CGUs) that are expected to beneﬁ t from the 
business combination. The carrying value of goodwill has been allocated to the following CGUs:
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Domiciliary Care     19,359   17,161 
Specialist Care    22,783  – 
Other Activities    779  1,657 
    42,921  18,818 
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that it might be impaired. To the 
extent that the carrying value exceeds the value in use, determined from estimated discounted future net cash ﬂ ows, goodwill is written 
down to the value in use and an impairment charge is recognised.
The recoverable amount of the CGUs has been determined by value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use 
calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates, and expected changes to selling price and direct cost during future 
years. A pre-tax discount rate of 11.22% was used in the value in use calculation. The Group prepares cash ﬂ ow forecasts for a period of 
ﬁ ve years; thereafter, a steady growth rate of 3% has been applied to extrapolate cash ﬂ ows further. Changes in selling prices and direct 
costs are based on management’s expectations of future changes in the market.
Software is assumed to have a useful economic life of three years and is amortised accordingly.
Customer related intangible assets have a differing useful economic life ranging from seven to ten years based on management 
expectations and customer commitments and the amortisation policy reﬂ ects this.
There are no speciﬁ c securities or restrictions held over the intangible assets. www.claimar.co.uk
39
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008
11 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 Freehold Long
 land and leasehold Fixtures & Ofﬁ ce Motor 
 buildings property ﬁ ttings equipment vehicles Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 October 2006 90 122 159 100 22 493
Additions  –   –  29 175 28 232
Subsidiaries acquired 200  –  228 252 148 828
Disposals (90)  –   –   –  (11) (101)
At 30 September 2007 200 122 416 527 187 1,452
Additions  –   –  43 229 – 272
Subsidiaries acquired –  –   56  489 – 545
At 30 September 2008 200 122 515 1,245 187 2,269
Depreciation
At 1 October 2006  –  1 84 44 9 138
Charge for the year  –  2 42 127 35 206
Subsidiaries acquired  –   –   158  179   91   428
Eliminated on disposals  –   –   –   –  (9) (9)
At 30 September 2007  –  3 284 350 126 763
Charge for the year  –  – 41 194 30 265
Subsidiaries acquired  –   –   42  223  13 278
At 30 September 2008  –  3 367 767 169 1,306
Net Book Value
At 30 September 2008 200 119 148 478 18 963
At 30 September 2007 200 119 132 177 61 689
The net book value of ﬁ xed assets includes an amount of £13,000 (2007: £62,000) in respect of assets held under hire purchase and 
ﬁ nance lease contracts. CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
40
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008
12 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Trade receivables    5,626 3,295
Accrued income    4,037 1,738
Prepayments    976 405
Other receivables    27 71
    10,666 5,509
The average credit period taken is 55 days (2007: 32 days). The Directors consider the carrying amount of trade and other receivables 
approximate to their fair value.
The Group holds no collateral against these receivables at the balance sheet date.
The following table provides an analysis of trade and other receivables that were past due at 30 September 2008 but not impaired. 
     2008
     £’000
Up to 30 days      1,346 
Between 30 and 60 days      636 
Between 60 and 90 days      880 
Over 90 days      293 
      3,155 
The Directors believe that the balances are ultimately recoverable based on a review of past payment history and the current ﬁ nancial 
status of the customers.
13 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Trade payables    794 271
Other tax and social security    2,576 2,255
Accruals    849 759
Deferred consideration    272 830
    4,491 4,115
The average payment period taken is 48 days (2007: 28 days). The Directors consider the carrying amount of trade and other payables 
approximate to their fair value. www.claimar.co.uk
41
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008
14 CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Overdraft    2,380 453
Bank loans    2,200  – 
Obligations under hire purchase and ﬁ nance leases    12 62
Loan notes     –  950
    4,592 1,465
The bank loans and overdraft are secured by a ﬁ xed and ﬂ oating charge over all assets of the Group.
Amounts due under ﬁ nance leases are secured on the assets to which they relate.
15 NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Bank loans    15,850 8,395
    15,850 8,395
16 DEFERRED TAXATION
 Accelerated   
 tax  Share-based Customer
 depreciation Tax losses payments lists Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 October 2006 1 – – – 1
Acquisition of subsidiary 10 (103) – 1,046 953
Charged/(credited) to the income statement (12) 103 (8) (68) 15 
At 30 September 2007 (1) – (8) 978 969
Acquisition of subsidiary – – – 2,954 2,954
Credited to the income statement (57) – (18) (422) (497)
At 30 September 2008 (58) – (26) 3,510 3,426
Tax assets     (84)
Tax liabilities     3,510
     3,426 CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
42
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008
17 SHARE CAPITAL
    Equity interests
    Ordinary shares
    Nominal value
    £’000 Number
Authorised:
At 1 October 2007    3,900 39,000,000
Increase in authorised share capital    2,100 21,000,000
At 30 September 2008    6,000 60,000,000
Allotted, issued and fully paid:
At 1 October 2007    3,011 30,107,620
Issued 29 October 2007    55 550,000
Issued 30 October 2007    1,769 17,698,176
Issued 1 November 2007    164 1,639,344
At 30 September 2008    4,999 49,995,140
At 1 October 2007 authorised share capital was £3,900,000. This was increased at an Extraordinary General meeting on 26 October 
2007 to £6,000,000 by the creation of 21,000,000 shares of 10p each.  
On 29 and 30 October 2007 the Company issued 18,248,176 new ordinary shares of 10p each at 137p per share via a share placing 
which raised £23m net of expenses.
On 1 November 2007 the Company issued 1,639,344 consideration shares of 10p each at 140.3p per share, contributing £2.3m to the 
purchase of the entire share capital of Complete Care Holdings Limited. www.claimar.co.uk
43
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008
18 OTHER FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS
At 30 September 2008 the Group was committed to making the following payments under non-cancellable operating leases.
 2008 2007
  Land &  Land &
  buildings Other buildings Other
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Operating leases which expire:
Within one year  67 – 90 38
Within two to ﬁ ve years  139 54 210  25 
Over ﬁ ve years  59  –  13  – 
  265 54 313 63
19 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Financial risk management objectives and policies 
The Group’s principal ﬁ nancial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise bank loans, ﬁ nance leases and cash. The main purpose of 
these ﬁ nancial instruments is to fund the Group’s operations, including the management of working capital and liquidity. The Group also 
has various other ﬁ nancial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables that arise directly from its operations. 
The Group also enters into derivative transactions, in the form of interest rate swaps, to manage the interest rate risks arising from 
the Group’s sources of ﬁ nance. It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in ﬁ nancial 
instruments is undertaken.
Financial projections are prepared and capital requirements are estimated using these projections, together with sensitivity analysis. The 
Group’s banking agreements require the Group to comply with covenants for senior debt to normalised earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation, for normalised earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation to interest, and for cash ﬂ ow to 
debt service payments.
The main risks arising from the Group’s ﬁ nancial instruments are interest rate, credit and liquidity risk. The Board reviews and agrees 
policies for managing each of these risks, and they are summarised below.
Short-term receivables and payables
Short-term receivables and payables have been excluded from the following disclosures, other than in relation to total ﬁ nancial assets and 
liabilities.
Interest rate risk
The Group ﬁ nances its operations through a combination of cash, bank borrowings and hire purchase contracts. The book value of 
ﬁ nancial instruments held or issued to ﬁ nance the Group’s operations approximate to the fair value of those instruments in the current or 
prior year, because of their short maturities. The Group is exposed to ﬂ uctuations in interest rates on its loans and cash deposits.
The Group’s principal bank borrowings arise from its term loan arrangement and from drawdowns on its revolving facility, which have 
been used to ﬁ nance the acquisition of target businesses. The rate of interest on such borrowings is typically ﬁ xed for a period of between 
one to six months from drawdown, with an option on maturity to ﬁ x for future periods. The Board also reviews the requirement to hedge 
its interest rate exposure on a regular basis.
The Group entered into two hedging arrangements on 1 November 2007 to hedge its exposure to interest rate risk, by ﬁ xing an element 
of interest on a total of £16.03m of its debt. CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
44
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008
19 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
The swap arrangements cover:
Debt    Fixed rate Expiry
£8.03m (re term loan)    5.72% 31 December 2012
£8.00m (re revolving facility)    5.90% 1 November 2008
The swaps have the effect of ﬁ xing the LIBOR interest rate. The size of the notional amount on which the term loan swap is based 
reduces from 31 December 2008, pro rata with the term loan repayments. 
The interest rate exposure of the ﬁ nancial assets and liabilities of the Group as at 30 September 2008 and 30 September 2007 was:
 Fixed Floating Total Fixed Floating Total
 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Financial assets
Cash at bank  –  362  362   –  630  630 
  –  362  362   –  630  630 
Financial liabilities
Bank overdraft  –  2,380  2,380   –  453  453 
Bank loans 18,050   –  18,050  8,395   –  8,395 
Hire purchase 
and ﬁ nance leases 12   –  12  62   –  62 
Loan notes  –   –   –  950   –  950 
 18,062  2,380  20,442  9,407  453  9,860 
The weighted average ﬁ xed interest rate as at 30 September 2008 was 7.73%.
The Group has performed a sensitivity analysis for ﬂ oating interest rates to determine annual impacts as set out below.
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Impact on proﬁ t
1% increase in base rate of interest    (20) 2 
1% decrease in base rate of interest    20  (2)
The Group’s banking facilities comprise an £11m term loan, a £12m revolving credit facility, and a £2.5m overdraft facility. 
The term loan is repayable in instalments every six months from 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2012. The loan now carries an 
interest rate of 3% above LIBOR.
The revolving credit facility is available until 30 September 2010. The facility now carries an interest rate of 2.5% above LIBOR.
The overdraft facility is repayable on demand. The facility now carries an interest rate of 3% above Bank of England base rate. www.claimar.co.uk
45
19 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its ﬁ nancial obligations as they fall due. The Group seeks to manage risk by 
ensuring sufﬁ cient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable cash requirements and to invest cash assets safely. The Group keeps under 
review the maturity proﬁ le of its borrowings in conjunction with its trading cash ﬂ ow projections.
The £2.5m overdraft facility is designed to provide adequate liquidity for the Group. In addition, there is headroom available within the 
revolving credit facility.
Credit risk
Credit risk arises mainly from trade receivables and cash and cash equivalents. The Group is exposed to credit risk should customers fail 
to meet all or part of their obligations. The majority of the Group’s sales are to United Kingdom Local Authorities and NHS Primary Care 
Trusts. Customers are subject to credit veriﬁ cation when appropriate and all outstanding balances are regularly monitored. The Group 
mitigates its credit risk by ensuring that no customer comprises an unduly large proportion of its total business.
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk relating to such assets is as follows:
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Trade receivables    5,626  3,295 
Cash and cash equivalents    362  630 
    5,988  3,925 
The Group reviews aged debt on a regular basis and makes provision for those debts which it considers doubtful. 
Foreign currency risk
The Group has no material exposure to foreign currency risks.
Capital management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern so that it can continue 
to provide adequate returns to shareholders and beneﬁ ts to other stakeholders, while optimising return to shareholders through an 
appropriate balance of debt and equity funding.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions and the strategic 
objectives of the Company. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return 
capital to shareholders or issue new shares, if required. The acquisition of Complete Care was funded by a mixture of debt and the issue 
of equity to maintain an adequate capital structure for the Group.
The table below presents the quantitative data for the components the Group manages as capital:
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Shareholders’ funds    40,582  13,986 
Bank overdraft    2,380  453 
Hire purchase and ﬁ nance leases    12  62 
Bank loans    18,050  8,395 
Other interest bearing loans     –  950 
    61,024  23,846
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008 CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
46
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008
19 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
Total ﬁ nancial assets and liabilities
The table below sets out the Group’s accounting classiﬁ cation of each class of ﬁ nancial assets and liabilities, and their fair values at 
30 September 2008.
    Fair value  Total for
   Loans and through income  balance sheet
   receivables statement heading
   2008 2008 2008
   £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash at bank   362   –  362 
Trade receivables   5,626   –  5,626 
Accrued income   4,037   –  4,037 
Other receivables — current   27   –  27 
Prepayments   976   –  976 
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments    –  (77) (77)
Current tax liabilities   (717)  –  (717)
Trade payables — current   (794)  –  (794)
Other tax and social security payable   (2,576)  –  (2,576)
Accruals   (849)  –  (849)
Other liabilities — current   (272)  –  (272)
Bank overdraft   (2,380)  –  (2,380)
Loans payable — current   (2,200)  –  (2,200)
Obligations under hire purchase and ﬁ nance leases   (12)  –  (12)
Loans payable — non-current   (15,850)  –  (15,850)
Total   (14,622) (77) (14,699)
20 EQUITY-SETTLED SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Company’s share option schemes provide for an exercise price equal to the closing quoted market price of the Company’s share for 
the dealing day prior to the date of grant. There is a three year vesting period. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years 
from the date of grant, the options expire. Furthermore, options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group, except for reasons of 
redundancy where the employee is permitted to exercise the options during the subsequent six month period.
 2008 2007
   Weighted   Weighted 
   average  average
   exercise   exercise 
  Options price Options price
  granted (pence) granted (pence)
Outstanding at beginning of the year  1,006,989 88.8  636,438   72.4 
Granted during the year  – – 370,551 117.1
Lapsed during the year  (197,463) 99.3 – –
Outstanding at the end of the year  809,526 96.9 1,006,989 88.8
Exercisable at the end of the year  – – – –
The options outstanding at 30 September 2008 had an exercise price ranging from 72.0p to 137.5p per share (2007: 72.0p to 137.5p). 
There were no options granted in the year. The estimated fair value of options granted in the previous year, using the Black–Scholes 
method, was 37.6p per share. www.claimar.co.uk
47
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008
20 EQUITY-SETTLED SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS (CONTINUED)
The inputs into the Black–Scholes valuation model for options granted during the year were as follows:
    2008 2007
Weighted average share price    96.0p 122.5p
Weighted average exercise price    90.1p 122.3p
Expected volatility    29.40% 27.80%
Expected life    5 years 5 years
Risk-free rate    4.59% 5.10%
Expected dividend yield    1% 1%
Given that the Company only began to trade its shares on AIM on 6 January 2006 expected volatility was determined by calculating the 
historic volatility of a comparable peer group over the previous six years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, 
exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
The Group recognised a total expense of £45,000 relating to the equity-settled share option transactions in 2008 (2007: £30,000).
21 CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Proﬁ t before tax    899  1,588
Adjustments:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment    265 206
Amortisation of intangible assets — customer related/brands   1,507  243
 — software    10 –
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment    – (97)
Share-based payment charge    45 30
Finance costs    1,467 321
Finance revenue    (23) (64)
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments provision    77  – 
Operating cash ﬂ ows before movements in working capital   4,247 2,227
(Increase) in receivables    (1,375) (1,069)
(Decrease)/increase in payables    (560) 804
Cash generated from operations    2,312 1,962 CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
48
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008
22 RECONCILIATION BETWEEN UK GAAP AND IFRS
For all periods up to and including the year ended 30 September 2007 the Group prepared its ﬁ nancial statements in accordance with 
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP). The Group’s ﬁ nancial statements for the year ended 30 September 
2008 are the ﬁ rst annual statements that will comply with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union 
(IFRS). These statements have been prepared on the basis set out in the accounting policies. In preparing its opening IFRS balance sheet 
at 1 October 2006 (the Group’s date of transition to IFRS) and the year ended 30 September 2007, the Group has adjusted amounts 
previously reported in the ﬁ nancial statements prepared in accordance with UK GAAP .
This section explains the principal adjustments made by the Group in restating its UK GAAP balance sheet at 1 October 2006 and its 
previously published UK GAAP ﬁ nancial statements for the year ended 30 September 2007.
Reconciliation of proﬁ t for the year ended 30 September 2007
  IFRS 3  IAS 12 IAS 38
  Business Income Intangible
 UK GAAP combinations taxes assets IFRS
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue 22,318  –   –  – 22,318
Cost of sales (14,055)  –   –  – (14,055)
Administrative expenses (5,908)  –   –  – (5,908)
Amortisation of goodwill (636) 636  –  –  – 
Proﬁ t on sale of freehold premises 97  –   –  – 97
Reorganisation and restructuring costs (359)  –   –  – (359)
Professional fees related to aborted acquisitions (5)  –   –  – (5)
Amortisation of intangible assets  –   –   –  (243) (243)
Operating proﬁ t/(loss) 1,452 636  –  (243) 1,845
Finance income 64 – – – 64
Finance costs (321)  –   –  – (321)
Proﬁ t/(loss) before tax 1,195 636  –  (243) 1,588
Taxation (462)  –  68 – (394)
Proﬁ t/(loss) for the year 733 636 68 (243) 1,194 www.claimar.co.uk
49
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008
22 RECONCILIATION BETWEEN UK GAAP AND IFRS (CONTINUED)
Reconciliation of equity at 30 September 2007 
  IFRS 3 IAS 12 IAS 38
  Business Income Intangible
 UK GAAP combinations taxes assets IFRS
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 20,872 (2,054)  –  – 18,818
Other intangible assets  –  3,736  –  (165) 3,571
Property, plant and equipment 767  –   –  (78) 689
Deferred tax asset  –   –   9  –  9 
 21,639 1,682 9 (243) 23,087
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 5,518  –  (9) – 5,509
Cash and cash equivalents 630  –   –  – 630
 6,148  –  (9) – 6,139
Total assets 27,787 1,682  –  (243) 29,226
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities (1,465)  –   –  – (1,465)
Trade and other payables (4,115)  –   –  – (4,115)
Current tax liabilities (287)  –   –  – (287)
 (5,867)  –   –  – (5,867)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities (8,395)  –   –  – (8,395)
Deferred tax liabilities  –  (1,046) 68 – (978)
 (8,395) (1,046) 68 – (9,373)
Total liabilities (14,262) (1,046) 68 – (15,240)
Net assets 13,525 636 68 (243) 13,986
Equity
Share capital 3,011  –   –  – 3,011
Share premium account 10,533  –   –  – 10,533
Merger reserve (1,600)  –   –  – (1,600)
Retained earnings 1,534 636 68 (243) 1,995
Share-based payment reserve 47  –   –  – 47
Equity attributable to equity holders 
of the parent 13,525 636 68 (243) 13,986 CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
50
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008
22 RECONCILIATION BETWEEN UK GAAP AND IFRS (CONTINUED)
Reconciliation of equity at 1 October 2006
    IAS 38 
    Intangible 
   UK GAAP assets IFRS
   £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill   5,269 – 5,269
Other intangible assets    –  31 31
Property, plant and equipment    433  (31)  402 
   5,702 – 5,702
Current assets
Trade and other receivables   2,573 – 2,573
Cash and cash equivalents   97 – 97
   2,670 – 2,670
Total assets   8,372 – 8,372
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities   (1,056) – (1,056)
Trade and other payables   (1,188) – (1,188)
Current tax liabilities    (391)  –  (391) 
   (2,635) – (2,635)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities   (844) – (844)
Deferred tax liabilities   (1) – (1)
   (845) – (845)
Total liabilities   (3,480) – (3,480)
Net assets   4,892 – 4,892
Equity
Share capital   2,232 – 2,232
Share premium account   3,255 – 3,255
Merger reserve   (1,600) – (1,600)
Proﬁ t and loss account   988 – 988
Share-based payment reserve   17 – 17
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent  4,892 – 4,892 www.claimar.co.uk
51
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008
22 RECONCILIATION BETWEEN UK GAAP AND IFRS (CONTINUED)
Notes to the reconciliation of proﬁ ts and equity
The following describes the most signiﬁ cant adjustments arising from transition to IFRSs.
Goodwill arising on Business Combinations (IFRS 3)
Under IFRS 3, goodwill is not amortised on a straight-line basis but instead is subject to annual impairment testing. Consequently, the 
goodwill balances were considered at 1 October 2006 and 30 September 2007 and no impairment adjustments were identiﬁ ed.
In terms of adjustments to the Income Statement for the year ended 30 September 2007, the non-amortisation of goodwill results in an 
increase of pre-tax proﬁ t of £636,000. There are no associated tax impacts.
Under IFRS 3, resulting from business combinations that the company has entered into, other intangible assets comprising of customer 
lists and brands were identiﬁ ed with a fair value on acquisition of £3,736,000 for acquisitions in the year ended 30 September 2007.
Intangible assets (IAS 38)
Under UK GAAP , software costs were included within property, plant and equipment on the Balance Sheet. Under IAS 38, ‘Intangible 
Assets’, such items are disclosed separately on the face of the Balance Sheet.
As a result, there is a reclassiﬁ cation of £31,000 in the 1 October 2006 opening Balance Sheet, and £78,000 in the Balance Sheet as at 
30 September 2007, between property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. There is no impact on the Income Statement from 
this reclassiﬁ cation.
Following on from the recognition of separable other intangible assets as a result of business combinations in the period from the date of 
transition, there is amortisation of these balances resulting in a decrease of pre-tax proﬁ t of £243,000 for the year ended 30 September 
2007; and a related decrease in the deferred tax liability, impacting on proﬁ t for the year ended 30 September 2007, of £68,000.
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments (IAS 39)
Under UK GAAP , the Group did not elect to adopt FRS 26 ‘Financial instruments: measurement’; therefore, the interest rate swaps were 
not presented on the balance sheet. Under IFRS, there is a requirement to measure derivative ﬁ nancial instruments that have not been 
designated as hedging instruments at fair value with movements in their fair value going to the income statement.
As a result, a derivative ﬁ nancial liability of £77,000 has been recognised on the balance sheet at 30 September 2008.
Notes to the reconciliation of cash ﬂ ows
None of the adjustments arising from IFRSs relate to cash, and therefore there is no impact on reported cash ﬂ ows. CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
52
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008
The separate ﬁ nancial statements of Claimar Care Group Plc are presented on pages 53 to 59 as required by the Companies Act 1985 (the 
Act). The Group has elected not to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards in the individual Company accounts for the parent 
Company and subsidiary undertakings, and accordingly these ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared under UK accounting standards and in  
accordance with the Act. They are therefore presented separately to the Group consolidated ﬁ nancial statements which have been prepared 
under International Financial Reporting Standards. www.claimar.co.uk
53
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
We have audited the Parent Company ﬁ nancial statements of Claimar Care Group Plc for the year ended 30 September 2008 which comprise 
the balance sheet and the related notes as set out on pages 54 to 59. These ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared under the accounting 
policies set out therein. We have reported separately on the Group ﬁ nancial statements of Claimar Care Group Plc for the year ended 
30 September 2008.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company 
and the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS
As described in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities, the Company’s Directors are responsible for the preparation of ﬁ nancial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice).
Our responsibility is to audit the ﬁ nancial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the ﬁ nancial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 1985 and whether the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the ﬁ nancial statements. We also report to 
you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit, or if information speciﬁ ed by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited ﬁ nancial statements. The 
other information comprises only the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review, the Corporate Governance Statement and the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material 
inconsistencies with the ﬁ nancial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An 
audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁ nancial statements. It also includes an 
assessment of the signiﬁ cant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the ﬁ nancial statements, and of whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide 
us with sufﬁ cient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the ﬁ nancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the 
ﬁ nancial statements.
OPINION
In our opinion:
l the ﬁ nancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the 
state of the Company’s affairs as at 30 September 2008;
l the ﬁ nancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
l the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the ﬁ nancial statements.
MAZARS LLP
Chartered Accountants
and Registered Auditors
Birmingham 
18 December 2008
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
54
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
At 30 September 2008
    2008 2007
   Note £000 £000
Fixed assets
Investments   2  48,612  19,411 
    48,612  19,411 
Current assets
Debtors   3   9,956  3,204 
Creditors falling due within one year   4  (2,200)  – 
Net current assets    7,756  3,204 
Total assets less current liabilities     56,368   22,615 
Creditors falling due after more than one year   5  (15,850)  (8,395)
Net assets    40,518  14,220 
Capital and reserves
Called up equity share capital   6 4,999  3,011 
Share premium account   7 34,793  10,533 
Share-based payment reserve   7 92  47 
Retained earnings   7 634  629 
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent    40,518  14,220 
The ﬁ nancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 18 December 2008.
M Hales NA Townend
Chief Executive Group Finance Director
The accompanying accounting policies and notes form an integral part of these ﬁ nancial statements.
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
    
   Note 
Fixed assets www.claimar.co.uk
55
COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES
For the year ended 30 September 2008
Basis of preparation
The Company ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards and under the 
historical cost convention.
The principal accounting policies of the Company are set out below. The policies have remained unchanged from the previous period. The 
policies remain the most appropriate for the year.
Investments
Investments are included at cost less provision for impairment.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences where the transactions or events that give the Company an obligation to pay more tax in 
the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are recognised when it is more 
likely than not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax is measured using rates of tax that have been enacted by the balance sheet date.
Share-based payments
The Company operates several share option plans for key employees. All share-based payment arrangements granted after 7 November 2002 
that had not vested prior to 1 October 2006 are recognised in the ﬁ nancial statements.
All goods and services received in exchange for the grant of any share-based payment are measured at their fair values. Where employees 
are rewarded using share-based payments, the fair values of employees' services are determined indirectly by reference to the far value of the 
instrument granted to the employee. This fair value is appraised at the grant date and excludes the impact of non-market vesting conditions.
All equity-settled share-based payments are ultimately recognised as an expense in the proﬁ t and loss account with a corresponding credit to 
“share-based payment reserve”.
If vesting periods or other non-market vesting conditions apply, the expense is allocated over the vesting period, based on the best available 
estimate of the number of share options expected to vest. Estimates are revised subsequently if there is any indication that the number of 
share options expected to vest differs from previous estimates. Any cumulative adjustment prior to vesting is recognised in the current period. 
No adjustment is made to any expense recognised in prior periods if share options that have vested are not exercised.
Upon exercise of share options, the proceeds received net of attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital, and where 
appropriate share premium.  CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
56
1  PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
The Company’s proﬁ t for the year is £5,000 (2007: £671,000). As permitted by S230(3) of the Companies Act 1985, a separate proﬁ t and 
loss account has not been presented.
2  FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS
     2008
     £’000
Shares in subsidiary undertakings
At 1 October 2007     19,411 
Additions      29,201 
At 30 September 2008     48,612 
Details of the Company’s trading subsidiary undertakings, which are all incorporated in England and Wales, are as follows:
   Shares held  Principal
Company   Class % activity
Claimar Care Limited   Ordinary 100  Domiciliary care
MK Homecare Limited   Ordinary 100  Domiciliary care
Surecare Community Services Limited   Ordinary 100  Domiciliary care
Firstcall Community Services Limited   Ordinary 100  Domiciliary care
Primary Care Services Limited   Ordinary 100  Domiciliary care
Jemma Care Limited   Ordinary 100  Domiciliary care
Acorn Homecare Limited   Ordinary 100  Domiciliary care
Stockwell Care Services Limited   Ordinary 100  Domiciliary care
Twenty4Seven Homecare Services Limited    Ordinary 100  Domiciliary care
Lynks Care Limited   Ordinary 100  Domiciliary care
Boundary Care Services Limited   Ordinary 100  Domiciliary care
Complete Care Holdings Ltd   Ordinary 100  Care
Complete Personal Assistance Ltd  † Ordinary 100  Care
Complete Training Services Ltd  † Ordinary 100  Care
Complete Case Management Holdings Ltd  † Ordinary 100  Other
Paediatric Nursing Link Ltd  † Ordinary 100  Care
Complete Independent Living Services Ltd  † Ordinary 100  Care
Complete Ability Limited  † Ordinary 100  Care
Ravenscroft One Ltd   Ordinary 100  Domiciliary care
Homelink Ltd  ‡ Ordinary 100  Domiciliary care
Practicare Ltd  ‡ Ordinary 100  Domiciliary care
 
† Shares held by Complete Care Holdings Limited.
‡ Shares held by Ravenscroft One Limited.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008
1  PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
The Company’s proﬁ t for the year is £5,000 (2007: £671,000). As permitted by S230(3) of the Companies Act 1985, a separate proﬁ t and 
loss account has not been presented.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008 www.claimar.co.uk
57
3  DEBTORS
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings     9,956   3,204
     9,956   3,204 
4  CREDITORS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Bank loans     2,200   – 
     2,200   – 
5  CREDITORS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR
    2008 2007
    £’000 £’000
Bank loans     15,850   8,395 
     15,850   8,395 
Details concerning the maturity proﬁ le, interest rates and security relating to the Company’s bank loans are set out in note 19 on 
page 43.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008 CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
58
6  SHARE CAPITAL
    Equity interests
    Ordinary shares
    Nominal value
    £’000 Number
Authorised:
At 1 October 2007    3,900 39,000,000
Increase in authorised share capital    2,100 21,000,000
At 30 September 2008    6,000 60,000,000
Allotted, issued and fully paid:
At 1 October 2007    3,011 30,107,620
Issued 29 October 2007    55 550,000
Issued 30 October 2007    1,769 17,698,176
Issued 1 November 2007    164 1,639,344
At 30 September 2008    4,999 49,995,140
At 1 October 2007 authorised share capital was £3,900,000. This was increased at an Extraordinary General meeting on 26 October 
2007 to £6,000,000 by the creation of 21,000,000 shares of 10p each.  
On 29 and 30 October 2007 the Company issued 18,248,176 new ordinary shares of 10p each at 137p per share via a share placing 
which raised £23m net of expenses.
On 1 November 2007 the Company issued 1,639,344 consideration shares of 10p each at 140.3p per share, contributing £2.3m to the 
purchase of the entire share capital of Complete Care Holdings Limited.
7  RESERVES
  Share Share-based Proﬁ t
  premium payment and loss
  account reserve account Total
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 October 2007  10,533  47  629  11,209 
Share capital issued  24,260   –   –  24,260 
Share-based payment charge   –  45   –  45 
Retained proﬁ t for the year   –   –   255   255 
Dividends paid   –   –  (250) (250)
At 30 September 2008  34,793  92  634  35,519
6  SHARE CAPITAL
    
    Ordinary shares
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008 www.claimar.co.uk
59
8  SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Company’s share option schemes provide for an exercise price equal to the closing quoted market price of the Company’s share for 
the dealing day prior to the date of grant. There is a three year vesting period. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years 
from the date of grant, the options expire. Furthermore, options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group, except for reasons of 
redundancy where the employee is permitted to exercise the options during the subsequent six month period.
 2008 2007
   Weighted   Weighted 
   average  average
   exercise   exercise 
  Options price Options price
  granted (pence) granted (pence)
Outstanding at beginning of the year  1,006,989 88.8  636,438   72.4 
Granted during the year  – – 370,551 117.1
Lapsed during the year  (197,463) 99.3 – –
Outstanding at the end of the year  809,526 96.9 1,006,989 88.8
Exercisable at the end of the year  – – – –
The options outstanding at 30 September 2008 had an exercise price ranging from 72.0p to 137.5p per share (2007: 72.0p to 137.5p). 
There were no options granted in the year. The estimated fair value of options granted in the previous year, using the Black–Scholes 
method, was 37.6p per share.
The inputs into the Black–Scholes valuation model for options granted during the year were as follows:
    2008 2007
Weighted average share price    96.0p 122.5p
Weighted average exercise price    90.1p 122.3p
Expected volatility    29.40% 27.80%
Expected life    5 years 5 years
Risk-free rate    4.59% 5.10%
Expected dividend yield    1% 1%
Given that the Company only began to trade its shares on AIM on 6 January 2006 expected volatility was determined by calculating the 
historic volatility of a comparable peer group over the previous six years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, 
exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
The Group recognised a total expense of £45,000 relating to the equity-settled share option transactions in 2008 (2007: £30,000).
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 30 September 2008 CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
60
Notice is hereby given that an Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 40 Vicarage Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 3EZ 
on 20 January 2009 at 12 pm to transact the following business:
ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS
To consider and if thought ﬁ t pass the following resolutions 1 to 5 as ordinary resolutions:
1. That the Company’s annual report for the year ended 30 September 2008 be received and adopted together with the Directors’ report, 
the remuneration report and the auditors’ report on those accounts and the auditable part of the remuneration report.
2. That Messrs Mazars LLP be reappointed as auditors to hold ofﬁ ce from the conclusion of the meeting to the conclusion of the next 
meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company and that the Audit Committee be authorised to ﬁ x their remuneration.
3. That Mark Hales, who will be retiring by rotation pursuant to Article 22.5 of the Company’s Articles of Association, be reappointed as a 
Director of the Company.
4. That Nick Townend, who will be retiring and offering himself for re-election in accordance with Article 22.2 of the Company’s Articles of 
Association, be reappointed as a Director of the Company.
5.  That the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the ﬁ nancial year ended 30 September 2008 be approved.
SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS
To consider and if thought ﬁ t pass the following resolutions 6 and 7 as special resolutions:
6. That the Directors be and are hereby empowered to allot equity securities (as deﬁ ned in sections 94(2) to 94(3A) of the Companies Act 
1985 (the “Act”)) of the Company pursuant to the authority granted to the Directors by special resolution of the members on 26 October 
2007 or to sell equity securities held as treasury shares for cash pursuant to section 162D of the Act, or partly in one way and partly in the 
other, in each case as if section 89(1) of the Act did not apply to such allotment, provided that such power shall be limited to the allotment 
of equity securities:
a) in connection with an offer of such securities by way of rights to holders of ordinary shares in proportion (as nearly as practicable) to 
their respective holdings of such shares but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary 
or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory, or the requirements 
of any regulatory body or stock exchange; and
b) otherwise than in pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above, up to an aggregate nominal amount of £249,976, and shall expire on the 
earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and ﬁ fteen months from the date of the passing of this 
resolution provided that the Directors shall be entitled to make at any time prior to the expiry of such power any offer or agreement 
which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after the expiry of such power.
7. That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases (as deﬁ ned in section 163 of the 
Act) of its ordinary shares of 10p each provided that:
a)  the Company does not purchase under this authority more than 4,999,514 ordinary shares;
b)  the Company does not pay less than the nominal value for each share;
c)  the Company does not pay more for each share than 105% of the average mid-market closing price of the ordinary shares for the 
ﬁ ve business days immediately preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy the shares concerned; and
d)  this authority shall expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and ﬁ fteen months 
from the date of the passing of this resolution provided that the Company may agree at any time before the authority expires to 
purchase ordinary shares where the purchase will or may be executed after the authority expires.
Dated 18 December 2008
By order of the Board  Registered Ofﬁ ce:
 40 Vicarage Road
Nick Townend  Edgbaston
Company Secretary  Birmingham 
 B15 3EZ
Notice is hereby given that an Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 40 Vicarage Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 3EZ 
on 20 January 2009 at 12 pm to transact the following business:
ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING www.claimar.co.uk
61
NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING
Resolutions 6 and 7
1. At the general meeting held on 26 October 2007, the shareholders empowered the Directors to allot equity securities for cash without 
ﬁ rst being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders pursuant to Section 89 of the Act until the next Annual General Meeting 
of the Company. It is proposed to renew this authority for the period until the next Annual General Meeting or, if sooner, 20 April 2010. 
The nominal amount of equity securities to which this authority relates represents approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the 
Company as at the date of this notice.
2.  With the authority of the shareholders in general meeting, the Company is empowered by its Articles to purchase its own shares subject 
to the provisions of the Act. The maximum nominal amount of shares which may be acquired pursuant to this resolution represents 
approximately 10% of the Company’s issued share capital at the date of this notice. Any shares purchased under this authority will, 
unless the Directors determine that they are to be held as treasury shares, be cancelled and the number of shares in issue will be reduced 
accordingly.
3.  Although the Directors have no present intention of exercising either the disapplication of pre-emption rights authority under Resolution 6 
or the purchase of own shares authority under Resolution 7, they believe it is prudent to seek general authority from shareholders to be 
able to act if circumstances were to arise in which they considered such action to be desirable.
Entitlement to attend and vote
4.  Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertiﬁ cated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company speciﬁ es that only those members registered 
on the Company’s register of members:
l not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the Meeting; or,
l if this Meeting is adjourned, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to 
attend and vote at the Meeting.
Appointment of proxies
5.  If you are a member of the Company at the time set out in note 4 above, you are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of your 
rights to attend and vote at the Meeting and you should have received a proxy form with this notice of meeting. You can only appoint a 
proxy using the procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
6.  A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must attend the Meeting to represent you. Details of how to appoint the 
Chairman of the Meeting or another person as your proxy using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
7.  You may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares. You may not 
appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
8.  A vote withheld is not a vote in law, which means that the vote will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolution. 
If no voting indication is given, your proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his or her discretion. Your proxy will vote (or abstain from 
voting) as he or she thinks ﬁ t in relation to any other matter which is put before the Meeting.
Appointment of proxy using hard copy proxy form
9.  The notes to the proxy form explain how to direct your proxy how to vote on each resolution or withhold their vote.
 To appoint a proxy using the proxy form, the form must be:
l completed and signed;
l sent or delivered to Computershare Investor Services plc at PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 7NH; and
l received by Computershare Investor Services PLC no later than two working days before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
 In the case of a member which is a Company, the proxy form must be executed under its common seal or signed on its behalf by an 
ofﬁ cer of the Company or an attorney for the Company.
 Any power of attorney or any other authority under which the proxy form is signed (or a duly certiﬁ ed copy of such power or authority) 
must be included with the proxy form.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CLAIMAR CARE GROUP Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
62
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Appointment of proxy by joint members
10.  In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the 
most senior holder will be accepted. Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Company’s 
register of members in respect of the joint holding (the ﬁ rst-named being the most senior).
Changing proxy instructions
11.  To change your proxy instructions simply submit a new proxy appointment using the methods set out above. Note that the cut-off time 
for receipt of proxy appointments (see above) also applies in relation to amended instructions; any amended proxy appointment received 
after the relevant cut-off time will be disregarded.
 Where you have appointed a proxy using the hard copy proxy form and would like to change the instructions using another hard copy 
proxy form, please contact Computershare Investor Services PLC at PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 7NH or 
on 0870 889 3276.
 If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment, the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will 
take precedence.
Termination of proxy appointments
12.  In order to revoke a proxy instruction you will need to inform the Company by sending a signed hard copy notice clearly stating your 
intention to revoke your proxy appointment to Computershare Investor Services PLC at PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, 
Bristol, BS99 7NH. In the case of a member which is a Company, the revocation notice must be executed under its common seal or 
signed on its behalf by an ofﬁ cer of the Company or an attorney for the Company. Any power of attorney or any other authority under 
which the revocation notice is signed (or a duly certiﬁ ed copy of such power or authority) must be included with the revocation notice.
 The revocation notice must be received by Computershare Investor Services PLC no later than two working days before the time 
appointed for holding the meeting. If you attempt to revoke your proxy appointment but the revocation is received after the time speciﬁ ed 
then, subject to the paragraph directly below, your proxy appointment will remain valid.
 Appointment of a proxy does not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in person. If you have appointed a proxy and attend 
the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
Communication
13.  Except as provided above, members who have general queries about the Meeting should call our shareholder helpline on 0870 889 3276 
(no other methods of communication will be accepted).
 You may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice of general meeting or any related documents (including the 
chairman’s letter and proxy form) to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Corporate representatives
14. In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the Meeting so that:
i) if a corporate member has appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll 
in accordance with the directions of all the other corporate representatives for that member at the Meeting, then, on a poll, those 
corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote (or withhold a vote) as corporate 
representative in accordance with those directions; and
ii) if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate member attends the Meeting but the corporate member has not 
appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, 
from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting 
directions to that designated corporate representative. www.claimar.co.uk
63
FORM OF PROXY
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING TO BE HELD ON 20 JANUARY 2009
I/We (name in block capitals) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
of   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
being a member of Claimar Care Group PLC appoint the chairman of the meeting or (see Note 1)
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
as my/our proxy to attend and vote for me/us on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at 12 pm on 
20 January 2009 at 40 Vicarage Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 3EZ and at every adjournment of it. In the event of a poll, I/we desire 
my/our votes to be cast as indicated with an X in the space provided.
    For  Against  Abstain
 ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS
 1. To receive the Company’s annual report for the year ended 30 September 2007 and the 
  reports of the Directors and the auditors thereon.
 2.  To reappoint Mazars LLP as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee 
  to ﬁ x their remuneration.
 3.  To re-elect Mark Hales as a Director of the Company.
 4.  To re-elect Nick Townend as a Director of the Company.
 5.  To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the ﬁ nancial year ended 
  30 September 20008.
 SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS
 6.  To disapply pre-emption rights.
 7.  To authorise the Company to purchase its own shares.
Signature(s)   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Notes
1.  You may delete the words “chairman of the meeting” and insert the name of your own choice of proxy/proxies, who need not be a 
member of the Company. Please initial any such alteration.
2.  A proxy/proxies can only vote on a poll.
3.  To be valid, this proxy form must reach the Company’s registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 1075, Bristol, BS99 
3ZZ not less than two working days before the time ﬁ xed for the meeting. Completion of this proxy form does not prevent you from 
attending and voting in person.
4.  In the case of joint registered holders, any joint holder may sign this proxy form, but the vote of the person whose name appears ﬁ rst in 
the register of members in respect of the holding or his proxy/proxies will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of other joint holders 
or their proxies.
5.  This form of proxy must be signed under the hand of the appointer or of his attorney duly authorised in writing. If the appointer is a 
corporation, this form must be under the common seal or under the hand of some ofﬁ cer or attorney duly authorised in that behalf. If this 
form of proxy is executed under a power of attorney, the power of attorney or other authority (or a notarially certiﬁ ed copy of it) must be 
lodged with the Company in this form.
$ Second fold
Third fold
and tuck in ﬂ ap opposite
First fold
BUSINESS REPLY SERVICE
Licence No. MB122
Computershare Investor Services PLC
PO Box 1075
BRISTOL
BS99  3ZZ
1 1 CLAIMAR CARE GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
www.claimar.co.uk
CLAIMAR CARE LIMITED
Domiciliary Care
Claimar Care offers a ﬂ exible care service aimed mostly at older adults in their own homes, although 
it also provides services to younger adults and children. It can provide a range of services, from a 15 
minute call to check on someone’s well-being, through to 24 hour care and support. The services 
provide an alternative to care in a residential or nursing home and allow individuals to maintain their 
independence and avoid admissions to hospital. Most revenues are currently generated from long-term 
contracts with Local Authorities which are typically for a period of three to ﬁ ve years with an option on 
the part of the Local Authority to extend for up to two more years.
PHARMASSURED LIMITED
Pharmacy
PharmAssured, our new pharmacy division, has been developed through Claimar Care’s in-depth 
understanding of the domiciliary care sector. PharmAssured is a provider of tailored domiciliary pharmacy 
services that meet both patient and carer needs exactly and by doing so aims to promote and support 
the increasing numbers of people, especially the elderly, who wish to live independently. PharmAssured 
will better manage the medication needs of vulnerable patients, particularly those on poly pharmacy 
treatments who receive on average six or more different types of medication at any one time, by making 
medication simpler and safer.
PRIMARY CARE SERVICES LIMITED
Training
Primary Care Training aims to provide a one stop shop solution to training requirements from individuals 
to large national organisations. The company provides coverage across England, Wales and Scotland 
supplying a portfolio of courses at public venues and on site at customers’ own premises. Most of 
the courses are accredited by awarding bodies such as the Royal Society for the Promotion of Health 
(RSPH) and the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health (CIEH). Primary Care Training has a 
government Train to Gain contract with the Learning Skills Council (LSC) and currently has over 500 
learners on programme. The most recent addition to Primary Care is a paediatric department providing 
ﬁ rst aid and other courses to Local Authorities, nurseries and child minders.
COMPLETE CARE HOLDINGS LIMITED
Complex/Specialist Care
Complete Care Holdings is a UK leader in the specialist ﬁ eld of complex care delivery for both adults and 
children. Our service, supported by many years of experience, allows people with severe disabilities — 
many of them ventilator dependent — to live independently in their own homes. The company delivers 
personalised care packages, based on the needs of the individual client and their family. This input 
allows clients to regain control of their lives and make choices about their future. The specialist team 
has a proven record of innovation and forward thinking that enables them to develop and adapt to the 
changing needs of our customers. Working so closely with clients and their families gives the teams an 
extensive knowledge of how to make very complex care packages work successfully and we continue to 
use this resource in further developing and improving our services countrywide.
PAEDIATRIC NURSING LINK LIMITED
Complex/Specialist Care
Paediatric Nursing Link (PNL) specialises in providing nursing care for sick children and their families in 
hospital, their own homes, and within school, respite and palliative care environments. We work closely 
with NHS Trusts and Social Services but we are also able to provide a complete package of care and 
management where there is no other support for patients and their families. PNL has been supplying 
medical staff, mainly qualiﬁ ed nurses and healthcare assistants, since 1999. It aims to provide a breadth 
and depth of temporary stafﬁ ng solutions throughout a wide range of care settings, and to meet the 
needs of service users, children and their families through a combination of expertise, ﬂ exibility and 
support to a diverse market. Our service is committed to providing effective solutions to meet our users’ 
speciﬁ c and intended needs.
SURECARE COMMUNITY SERVICES LIMITED
Domiciliary Care (Franchises)
SureCare operates as a national organisation of franchised providers who, as owners/operators of 
their service, are committed to offering a range of care services, electronic monitoring and associated 
products and services which assist users or providers to deliver or personally enjoy and maintain quality 
of life at a level of their choosing.
DIRECTORS
JRA Crabtree (Non Executive Chairman )
M Hales (Chief Executive)
JGI Moore (Non Executive Director)
NA Townend (Group Finance Director)
SECRETARY
NA Townend
COMPANY REGISTRATION NUMBER
05494140
REGISTERED OFFICE
40 Vicarage Road
Edgbaston
Birmingham
B15 3EZ
NOMINATED ADVISER AND BROKER
Arden Partners plc
Arden House
Highﬁ eld Road
Edgbaston
Birmingham
B15 3DU
REGISTRARS
Computershare Investor Services PLC
PO Box 82
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol
BS99 7NH
BANKERS
Royal Bank of Scotland plc
5th Floor
2 St Philips Place
Birmingham
B3 2RB
SOLICITORS
Hammonds
Rutland House
148 Edmund Street
Birmingham
B3 2JR
Higgs & Sons
Blythe House
Brierley Hill
West Midlands
DY5 3BG
AUDITORS
Mazars LLP
Lancaster House
67 Newhall Street
Birmingham
B3 1NG
FINANCIAL PUBLIC RELATIONS
Winningtons Financial PR
St Brandons House
29 Great George Street
Bristol
BS1 5QT
COMPANY  INFORMATION CLAIMAR CARE GROUP PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Stockcode symbol: CCGP
www.claimar.co.uk
CLAIMAR CARE LIMITED
Domiciliary Care
Claimar Care offers a ﬂ exible care service aimed mostly at older adults in their own homes, although 
it also provides services to younger adults and children. It can provide a range of services, from a 15 
minute call to check on someone’s well-being, through to 24 hour care and support. The services 
provide an alternative to care in a residential or nursing home and allow individuals to maintain their 
independence and avoid admissions to hospital. Most revenues are currently generated from long-term 
contracts with Local Authorities which are typically for a period of three to ﬁ ve years with an option on 
the part of the Local Authority to extend for up to two more years.
PHARMASSURED LIMITED
Pharmacy
PharmAssured, our new pharmacy division, has been developed through Claimar Care’s in-depth 
understanding of the domiciliary care sector. PharmAssured is a provider of tailored domiciliary pharmacy 
services that meet both patient and carer needs exactly and by doing so aims to promote and support 
the increasing numbers of people, especially the elderly, who wish to live independently. PharmAssured 
will better manage the medication needs of vulnerable patients, particularly those on poly pharmacy 
treatments who receive on average six or more different types of medication at any one time, by making 
medication simpler and safer.
PRIMARY CARE SERVICES LIMITED
Training
Primary Care Training aims to provide a one stop shop solution to training requirements from individuals 
to large national organisations. The company provides coverage across England, Wales and Scotland 
supplying a portfolio of courses at public venues and on site at customers’ own premises. Most of 
the courses are accredited by awarding bodies such as the Royal Society for the Promotion of Health 
(RSPH) and the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health (CIEH). Primary Care Training has a 
government Train to Gain contract with the Learning Skills Council (LSC) and currently has over 500 
learners on programme. The most recent addition to Primary Care is a paediatric department providing 
ﬁ rst aid and other courses to Local Authorities, nurseries and child minders.
COMPLETE CARE HOLDINGS LIMITED
Complex/Specialist Care
Complete Care Holdings is a UK leader in the specialist ﬁ eld of complex care delivery for both adults and 
children. Our service, supported by many years of experience, allows people with severe disabilities — 
many of them ventilator dependent — to live independently in their own homes. The company delivers 
personalised care packages, based on the needs of the individual client and their family. This input 
allows clients to regain control of their lives and make choices about their future. The specialist team 
has a proven record of innovation and forward thinking that enables them to develop and adapt to the 
changing needs of our customers. Working so closely with clients and their families gives the teams an 
extensive knowledge of how to make very complex care packages work successfully and we continue to 
use this resource in further developing and improving our services countrywide.
PAEDIATRIC NURSING LINK LIMITED
Complex/Specialist Care
Paediatric Nursing Link (PNL) specialises in providing nursing care for sick children and their families in 
hospital, their own homes, and within school, respite and palliative care environments. We work closely 
with NHS Trusts and Social Services but we are also able to provide a complete package of care and 
management where there is no other support for patients and their families. PNL has been supplying 
medical staff, mainly qualiﬁ ed nurses and healthcare assistants, since 1999. It aims to provide a breadth 
and depth of temporary stafﬁ ng solutions throughout a wide range of care settings, and to meet the 
needs of service users, children and their families through a combination of expertise, ﬂ exibility and 
support to a diverse market. Our service is committed to providing effective solutions to meet our users’ 
speciﬁ c and intended needs.
SURECARE COMMUNITY SERVICES LIMITED
Domiciliary Care (Franchises)
SureCare operates as a national organisation of franchised providers who, as owners/operators of 
their service, are committed to offering a range of care services, electronic monitoring and associated 
products and services which assist users or providers to deliver or personally enjoy and maintain quality 
of life at a level of their choosing.
DIRECTORS
JRA Crabtree (Non Executive Chairman )
M Hales (Chief Executive)
JGI Moore (Non Executive Director)
NA Townend (Group Finance Director)
SECRETARY
NA Townend
COMPANY REGISTRATION NUMBER
05494140
REGISTERED OFFICE
40 Vicarage Road
Edgbaston
Birmingham
B15 3EZ
NOMINATED ADVISER AND BROKER
Arden Partners plc
Arden House
Highﬁ eld Road
Edgbaston
Birmingham
B15 3DU
REGISTRARS
Computershare Investor Services PLC
PO Box 82
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol
BS99 7NH
BANKERS
Royal Bank of Scotland plc
5th Floor
2 St Philips Place
Birmingham
B3 2RB
SOLICITORS
Hammonds
Rutland House
148 Edmund Street
Birmingham
B3 2JR
Higgs & Sons
Blythe House
Brierley Hill
West Midlands
DY5 3BG
AUDITORS
Mazars LLP
Lancaster House
67 Newhall Street
Birmingham
B3 1NG
FINANCIAL PUBLIC RELATIONS
Winningtons Financial PR
St Brandons House
29 Great George Street
Bristol
BS1 5QT
COMPANY  INFORMATION Claimar Care Group Plc
40 Vicarage Road
Edgbaston
Birmingham
B15 3EZ
Tel: 0121 410 4080
Fax: 0121 410 4081
Claimar Care Group Plc
Annual Report and Accounts
for the year ended 30 September 2008
changing lives 
www.claimar.co.uk
CONTENTS
 1 Highlights of the year
 2 Group at a glance
 4 Chairman’s statement
 6 Chief Executive’s review
 10 Board of Directors
 12 Questions and answers
 14 Directors’ report
 17 Corporate governance
 18 Directors’ remuneration report
 20 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
 21 Independent auditors’ report
 22 Consolidated income statement
 23 Consolidated balance sheet
 24 Consolidated statement of changes 
  in equity
 25 Consolidated cash ﬂ ow statement
 26 Accounting policies
 31 Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
 52 Parent Company ﬁ nancial statements
 53 Independent auditors’ report
 54 Company balance sheet
 55 Company accounting policies
 56 Notes to the Company ﬁ nancial 
  statements
 60 Notice of Annual General Meeting
 IBC Company information
Claimar Care Group Plc is now 
established as one of the UK’s 
foremost suppliers of high calibre 
care to individuals living in their 
own homes. Built on a decade of 
experience, and specialists in our 
ﬁ eld, our family of carers make a 
profound difference to the lives of 
elderly, inﬁ rm and disabled people
in the home.
changing lives 
www.claimar.co.uk
