 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
@
5 Jupiter House  
Calleva Park  
Aldermaston  
Reading 
Berkshire RG7 8NN 
0118 963 7000  
0870 486 6000 
www.ukplc.net 
@UK PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006
_cover.indd   1 20/04/2007   09:14:26 THE SOLUTION
@UK PLC provides software solutions that allow eProcurement,  
the trading and services between purchasers such as Local 
Authorities, schools and hospitals, and suppliers, ranging from 
SMEs to multinational companies. Uniquely, the @UK solution 
allows all these suppliers to trade not only with public sector 
buyers, but also with other businesses and even consumers –  
all for one affordable annual fee.
@UK PLC was admitted to AIM in December 2005 to allow it to put 
in place the resources of personnel and equipment required to take 
advantage of its major growth opportunity, with almost one million 
suppliers to the public sector being prospective subscribers.
@UK TRADING CONNECTIONS
@UK has the software solutions to provide this trading connection:
Central Government
Local Authorities
Further Education
NHS Trusts
Schools
Private Sector
Emergency Services
IT SYSTEMS
SAP
Oracle
Sage
Cedar
Aggresso
Radius
@
EXAMPLES
Dell
Cannon Hygiene
Misco
Findel
Office Depot
HP
1,000+ PUBLIC SECTOR BUYERS 1,000,000 SUPPLIERS
18. Notes to the cash flow statement (continued)
d. Reconciliation of net funds/debt
    2006 2005 
    £ £
(Decrease)/Increase in cash for the year    (872,100) 1,072,011
Cash (inflow)/outflow from management of liquid resources    (3,652,998) 7,567,974
Cash outflow from decrease in net debt    12,500 12,500
Change in net debt arising from cash flows    (4,512,598) 8,652,485
Net Funds/(Debt) at 1 January    8,552,678 (99,807)
Net Funds at 31 December    4,040,080 8,552,678
Coding International Limited, acquired in the year, contributed £15,545 to the Group’s net operating cash flows, received 
£187 in respect of net returns on investment and servicing of finance and utilised £1,476 for capital expenditure.
19. Financial commitments
     2006 2005 
Group and Company    £ £
Annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases:    
Land and buildings, with expiry date      
– within one year    23,500 —
– between two and five years    84,500 72,000
20. Related party transactions
Mr RJ Duncan and Mrs HL Duncan are the landlords of a property which is occupied by the Group. The annual rent 
is currently £24,000. Isabella M Deas Limited, a company owned by Mr Duncan’s parents and in which he has a minority 
interest, is the landlord of a property which is occupied by the Group. The annual rent is currently £24,000.
Prior to its acquisition by @UK PLC, Software Limited had granted an interest free loan to Mr WJ Aiken for the acquisition of 
shares in the @UK PLC. At the year end the balance outstanding was £25,000. This balance, which represents principal, was 
also the maximum balance outstanding.
During the year an advance against expenses was made to Mr RJ Duncan. At the year end the balance outstanding was 
£5,000. This balance, which represents principal, was also the maximum balance outstanding.
@UK PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 37
_cover.indd   2 20/04/2007   09:14:27 @
01
@UK PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
HIGHLIGHTS
@  Turnover increased by 49% to £2.2m (2005: £1.5m)
@  Loss before tax of £3.2m (2005: £0.9m), before exceptional 
items and share based payments
@  Loss before tax of £3.5m (2005: £1.7m), after exceptional 
items and share based payments
@  Year end net cash of £4.0m (2005: £8.6m)
@ Strategic review completed and now fully implemented
@ Refocused sales efforts to maximise growth
CONTENTS
 IFC @UK PLC THE SOLUTION 
 01 HIGHLIGHTS
 02 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
 04 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
 10 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND ADVISERS
 12 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
 14 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 16 REMUNERATION REPORT
 18 DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
 19 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
 21 CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
 22 BALANCE SHEETS
 23 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
 24 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
_0_@uk_ar06_front.indd   2 20/04/2007   09:13:27 02
@UK PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Introduction
I am pleased to present @UK’s second report to shareholders 
as an AIM listed company. 
2006 has been a challenging year for @UK, with growth 
slower than we had originally anticipated. Nevertheless it has 
still been a year of progress towards our target of becoming 
the company of choice for providing eCommerce solutions 
to the public and private sectors. With the changes we have 
made in management and strategy we are confident that we 
are moving in the right direction.
Results
@  in the year ended 31 December 2006, @UK increased 
sales by 49% to £2.2m, (2005: £1.5m);
@  sales of web and eCommerce services increased by 
152% to £0.9m in the year ended 31 December 2006 
(2005: £0.4m);
@  loss before taxation (before exceptional items and share 
based payments) in 2006 was £3.2m compared to £0.9m 
in the prior year, which reflects the increased cost base 
in preparation for the roll-out of our products and services;
@  after taking account of exceptional costs and share based 
payments the loss before tax for 2006 was £3.5m 
(2005: £1.7m); and
@  at 31 December 2006 the Group had net funds of £4.0m 
available to take the Group through to profitability.
Strategic review
In November 2006 we announced that we had carried out 
a review of the business of the Group, its operating structure 
and cost base. The review highlighted the need to: 
@ undertake a management restructuring;
@ appoint a new Chief Executive Officer;
@  implement a new cost reduction programme focusing 
on headcount and sales and marketing expenditure; and
@ refocus our sales efforts to maximise growth.
The overall impact of the review has been to streamline our 
management, whilst reducing costs on an annualised basis 
by £1.2m.
Strategy
The Board’s strategy is to take advantage of the growth 
opportunities in @UK’s market and to achieve profitability 
in the medium term. We remain focused on the provision 
of our buy-side eCommerce solutions, and using this as 
a channel to sell our supply-side solutions, but:
_0_@uk_ar06_front.indd   3 20/04/2007   09:13:28 03
@UK PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
@  we have simplified our approach to implementation to 
make it easier for existing and new buy-side customers 
to achieve the benefits our solutions bring;
@  we are adopting more flexible sales techniques such 
as offering to sell on a risk/reward model and targeting 
areas of spend within organisations where the return 
on investment is particularly quick;
@  we are commencing a targeted sales campaign in the 
private sector for our buy-side solutions; and
@  these changes on the buy-side will have a positive 
impact on supplier adoption.
Management
As a result of the strategic review, Chris Hoar and 
Dudley George, the Commercial and Marketing Directors, 
left the Board. I would like to take the opportunity to thank 
Chris Hoar and Dudley George for their contribution to the 
development of the Group. 
Lyn Duncan moved to the role of Business Development 
Director in order to focus wholly on maximising her strong 
relationships within the Public Sector and in particular 
the NHS, and we also started a search for a new 
Chief Executive Officer. 
Subsequently, I was pleased to announce in January that 
we had appointed Grant Oliver as our new Chief Executive 
Officer. The benefits of these changes are now being seen 
and it was pleasing to see some client wins recently.
People
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all our employees 
for their hard work and effort during the year. 
Summary
With the management changes which have been made, the 
Group’s level of funding and good progress in implementing the 
new strategy, the Board is confident in @UK’s future.
Bernard R. Fisher
Chairman
28 March 2007
@

With the management changes which have been 
made, the Group’s level of funding and good progress 
in implementing the new strategy, the Board is confident 
in @UK’s future.
_0_@uk_ar06_front.indd   4 20/04/2007   09:13:28 04
@UK PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Introduction
I am pleased to present the first Chief Executive’s Review since 
my appointment.
Before presenting a review of operations in the year I think it 
would be useful to make some observations on my initial findings:
@ @UK has a well perceived product which works;
@  that product can deliver substantial savings and hence 
return on investment to purchasing organisations;
@  the sales cycle has been slower than anticipated. This 
is particularly the case in our traditional core market 
– Local Government;
@  there has been a tendency for projects to stall due to 
lack of internal resources available within our client base;
@ the Group’s sales effort needed refocusing; and
@  costs had increased rapidly in anticipation of a level of sales 
growth which had not occurred, and needed to be reduced.
I believe we have made substantial progress in addressing 
these issues which I will move on to explain.
@UK’s eCommerce offering
The Company has developed a unique approach to allow 
transactions via eCommerce between buyers such as Public 
Sector Bodies – Local Authorities, schools and hospitals, and 
corporate enterprises, and sellers such as small to medium 
enterprises (SMEs) as well as larger companies. Our solution 
has significant Local Economic Development benefits as well 
as allowing Local Authorities to purchase via the @UK 
Marketplace in a cost-effective, paperless way. 
What sets @UK apart from other eProcurement suppliers in 
the market is that we have a solution which is used by both 
sides of a transaction. Buyers such as a Public Sector Body or 
a large private enterprise (our “buy-side” customers), interact 
electronically with their suppliers (our “supply-side” customers), 
providing seamless, user friendly eCommerce for all sizes of 
supplier. As the process is electronic from despatch of order 
through to receipt of an electronic invoice this enables process 
cost savings from eProcurement to be achieved.
Our strategy is to target buyers in the public sector, signing them 
up as customers before turning our attention to their suppliers. 
Once set-up work and training has been completed, we then 
work with the buy-side customer to adopt their suppliers onto 
the @UK eCommerce platform. This means that buyers can 
_0_@uk_ar06_front.indd   5 20/04/2007   09:13:30 05
@UK PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
use our network to purchase from their suppliers. One of 
the attractive features of the system for the suppliers is that 
they are then also immediately available to be accessed by 
any other buyer on the network at no extra charge.
In order to achieve the cost savings and for @UK to get 
good rates of sign-up with suppliers, the buying organisation 
must commit to the change to paperless procurement. Typically, 
the suppliers who individually have few purchases per year 
but are large in number can be a block to going 100% electronic. 
To help with this we have introduced our “100% Model”, 
which provides the functionality to allow the organisation 
to trade with ease electronically even with those suppliers.
Operational overview
eProcurement 
Since we reported in last year’s Annual Report and Accounts 
it has become clear that the public sector was taking longer 
to initiate and implement eProcurement than @UK had 
anticipated at the time of the IPO in December 2005. This 
was particularly true in the Local Authority market where 
few signed up to an eProcurement solution during 2006. 
In response to this we have:
@  refocused our Local Authority sales effort on better 
quality prospects;
@  allocated resource to progressing projects with existing 
prospects which had stalled;
@  increased sales effort in the NHS sector where cost 
reduction is a priority;
@  initiated test selling of our solution in the private sector; and
@  started to work in partnership with major FMS 
(Financial Management Systems) vendors to broaden 
our sales effort.
We are currently working with 66 Public Sector Organisations 
and one private sector buy-side client. 
@
THE BACKGROUND
LTH is the largest trust of its kind in Europe, 
employing thousands of people across 
several sites. An existing eProcurement 
network linked to their Oracle back-office was 
unsatisfactory. Users required one system to 
requisition for all their needs across all 
different types of suppliers, with minimal set 
up and maintenance for LTH.
THE SOLUTION
Authorised LTH staff enter their own online, 
secure marketplace hosted by @UK. Staff 
view the agreed range and prices from 
authorised suppliers. Once a requisition 
basket has been completed, this is returned 
to the LTH Oracle system for authorisation, 
and then orders are routed out to suppliers. 
Following delivery eInvoices are returned 
from suppliers via the @UK network. The 
order is reconciled via an automatic 3-way 
matching process.
THE BENEFITS
The system is now in use and reductions in 
administration costs are being realised. 
These are anticipated to achieve a return on 
investment within a matter of months once 
the system is fully implemented. The ability 
to negotiate and apply attractive contracts 
across the entire range of needs will offer 
substantial savings for years to come.
CASE STUDY: LEEDS TEACHING HOSPITALS NHS TRUST (LTH)
_0_@uk_ar06_front.indd   6 20/04/2007   09:13:30 06
@UK PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Many of these organisations have moved slowly from letter 
of intent through to a fully functioning system. In many 
cases the delay is due to the customer not having sufficient 
resources available. To address this, in March 2007 we 
launched our Rapid Deployment service, which aims to get 
the purchasing organisation fully operational within as little 
as five days. To date six of our customers have signed up for 
this service and two have already gone live as a result.
Local Authorities – We now have a total of 59 Authorities 
who have adopted the @UK eProcurement solution as their 
chosen approach. We are pleased to announce that since 
the year end the London Borough of Hillingdon and 
Somerset County Council have become customers.
Central Government – As part of our focus on deploying our 
resources where we can maximise revenues, we withdrew from 
the Zanzibar consortium in September 2006. The demand for 
value added services from suppliers proved to be very low and 
the Board took the decision to redeploy resource where it will 
be more effective. This enabled us to sell direct into Central 
Government, which we commenced in November 2006 having 
recruited an experienced salesman to focus on this area.
National Health Service – 2006 saw @UK move successfully 
into the NHS, winning the mandate for the Leeds Teaching 
Hospitals Trust, while continuing to work at University Hospital 
Birmingham. With Leeds as a major reference site we have 
made sales in the NHS a key priority in 2007.
Education – We are currently working with four Local 
Education Authorities, three of which now have live sites. 
This is a net reduction of eight since we last reported. 
The project with the nine Greater Manchester Boroughs 
for an electronically based schools purchasing information 
service was cancelled at an early stage, by mutual agreement, 
after they received funding from the Department for Education 
and Skills to take part in a national pilot for another solution.
Other Public Sector – In 2006 we were pleased to have gained 
our first customer in the Emergency Services – Thames 
Valley Police.
Suppliers – We have attracted an impressive range of large 
suppliers to our marketplace. During 2006 we changed our 
approach to signing up suppliers from using on site supplier 
adoption officers to the use of supplier advisers working 
from a call centre environment at our offices in Aldermaston. 
These advisers follow up mailings sent out by buying 
organisations to their suppliers. The volume of sign-ups 
is critically dependent on the buy-side providing those 
mailings, and on the letters containing a call to action from 
the buying organisation as they change the way they procure. 
This inter-dependency between the buy-side and supply-side 
makes the push to get buy-side projects moving, referred 
to above, doubly important.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CONTINUED
_0_@uk_ar06_front.indd   7 20/04/2007   09:13:31 07
@UK PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Company Formations – Our company formation services 
business grew by 13% in the year. In 2006 approximately 10% 
of companies formed in Great Britain were completed using 
our system, either directly by @UK or by other agents 
paying a royalty for use of our service (2005: 8%). During 
the year we tested the marketing of our eCommerce 
services and third party accounting software for business 
start-ups directly to all newly incorporated companies. 
However, the take-up was not sufficient to warrant continuing 
with this relatively expensive, directly marketing approach. 
We have, therefore, reverted to making additional services 
available on the company formations area of our website. 
These are provided by third parties, on which we make a 
margin or commission.
Marketing – During 2006 marketing spend (including pay per 
click advertising) increased to £0.7m from £0.4m in the previous 
year. The increase was attributable to increased attendance at 
industry exhibitions and advertising via trade press. We consider 
that the aim of increasing awareness of @UK in the market 
has now been achieved, so spend is being reduced this year. 
Marketing activity will now be more focused on events such 
as the seminar we organised for Local Authorities.
Acquisition of Coding International Limited
The acquisition of Coding International Limited (“CIL ”) at the end 
of April 2006 was an important enhancement to our business as 
we believe proper coding of products is essential to gain the full 
benefits from eProcurement. CIL is seen as expert in this area.
The North West London Health Trusts contract was announced 
in July, and is progressing well. The trusts will soon be able to 
show savings based on the solution and it is already being 
showcased to other NHS bodies. The first sale of coding 
services into one of our Local Authority clients has just taken 
place, and we are confident that many more will follow.
Financial results
Turnover for the year was £2.16m an increase of 49% over the 
previous year (2005: £1.45m). Web and eCommerce sales rose 
by 152% to £0.94m, assisted by a maiden contribution of 
£0.15m from CIL. Gross margin fell from 67% to 59% reflecting 
the costs of staff carrying out implementation work for 
supply-side customers increasing ahead of sales.
Operating expenses before exceptional items increased from 
£1.88m to £4.84m. The rise reflects the increase in the cost base 
in preparation for the roll-out of our products and services across 
the UK public sector.
£0.05m was charged as the cost calculated under FRS 20 
of share options granted to employees (2005: £Nil). Following 
the strategic review carried out in November staff numbers 
were reduced and have fallen from a peak of 115 to 85, 
including eleven at CIL. An exceptional cost of £0.2m was 
incurred in making this reduction.
After taking account of exceptional items, the loss before tax 
for the year was £3.51m compared to £1.68m in the previous year .
@
THE BACKGROUND
Lewisham is the first London Borough aiming 
for true eProcurement between itself and its 
key suppliers, where suppliers can send 
back electronic invoices against electronic 
orders to facilitate automatic 3-way matching. 
From its £210m procurement spend Lewisham 
expect significant savings can be achieved. 
The majority of this administrative benefit 
will be achieved quickly by e-enabling identified 
third party suppliers, responsible for around 
100,000 of manual invoices processed.
THE SOLUTION
Staff log on to their existing (Oracle) financial 
system, which links to the @UK PLC 
eMarketplace. This accesses suppliers 
and special prices approved by the central 
purchasing department to ensure best value. 
Lewisham is working with @UK informing 
suppliers of their eProcurement programme 
and its benefits, including accurate orders, 
fewer returns costs, elimination of manual 
order processing and facilitating on-time 
payment. At the same time suppliers gain 
the ability to trade 24/7 with consumers 
and other businesses.
THE BENEFITS
Of the 4,700 suppliers contacted, over 
1,900 are registered with @UK PLC so far. 
486 suppliers are already developing their 
websites or linking existing websites to 
trade with Lewisham. Over 100 suppliers 
are already receiving orders. 
CASE STUDY: LONDON BOROUGH OF LEWISHAM
_0_@uk_ar06_front.indd   8 20/04/2007   09:13:32 08
@UK PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
As anticipated, cash outflow before financing increased 
substantially in 2006 to £4.51m (2005: £1.58m). The larger 
part of the outflow went on operating costs, but capital 
expenditure increased significantly to £792,000 from £121,000 
in 2005, with the expenditure on the new data centre in London 
and office refurbishment as well as equipment for the 
additional staff. Following the reduction in operating expenses 
as a result of the strategic review in November, our cash burn 
has been reduced to a rate of £0.2m per month.
At 31 December 2006 the Group had net funds of £4.04m 
available, which we are confident is sufficient to take us 
through to profitability. 
Dividend policy
The Board is not recommending the payment of a dividend 
for 2006. In the immediate future, the Board is committed to 
building the Group’s business and accordingly all the Group’s 
financial resources are being applied to this end. In the longer 
term, the Directors intend to adopt a progressive dividend policy 
appropriate to the Group’s financial performance.
Transition to International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS)
As an AIM listed company @UK will adopt IFRS for our 
financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2007 
and the interim results to 30 June 2007 will be prepared 
under the new standards. 
The Audit Committee has been regularly briefed on the 
development of IFRS and the associated International 
Accounting Standards (IAS) so that it can understand 
their impact and oversee the transition to IFRS.
As well as the different presentation formats, the most 
notable changes for our results are likely to be related to:
@  acquisitions and goodwill – Under IAS 38 (‘Intangible 
Assets’) there will be no amortisation of goodwill. 
Instead it will be carried as a permanent item and be 
subject to an annual impairment review of the carrying 
value. Future acquisitions will involve the identification 
and evaluation of separate intangible assets;
@  research and development expenditure – IAS 38 requires 
expenditure meeting certain recognition criteria to be 
capitalised, amortised over its useful economic life and 
subject to impairment review; and
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CONTINUED
_0_@uk_ar06_front.indd   9 20/04/2007   09:13:32 @
09
@UK PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
@  increased disclosure generally, but in particular in 
relation to IAS 14 ‘Segmental Reporting’ and IAS 24 
‘Related Party Transactions’.
Overall the change to IAS is not expected to have a material 
impact on the results. 
Outlook
The beginning of this year has been satisfactory as a result 
of the benefits of the action plan put in place following the 
strategic review. Our financial performance has stabilised 
as a result of the reduction in our cash burn and we aim 
to sustain this improvement. At the year end we had £4.0m 
of cash available to take the Group through to profitability.
There are still significant opportunities to substantially grow 
our business and I am looking forward to the challenges of 
the next year as we take advantage of these.
Grant Oliver
Chief Executive
28 March 2007
@UK PLC eProcurement system
The 100% Model
The 100% Model has been designed to help significantly reduce costs associated with 
‘manual’ processing of purchase orders and invoices over the whole supplier base in a 
Buying Organisation. The aim is to recruit all of a Buying Organisation’s suppliers, including 
those suppliers who do very low volumes of trade with that Buying Organisation. 
The analysis of data from several Buying Organisations that are currently using the @UK 
eProcurement System would suggest that the typical 20/80 rule applies. This means that the 
top 20% of suppliers generate 80% of the value and 80% of the transactions. It is the 70%-80% 
of suppliers who do low volumes of trade with the Buying Organisation that @UK aims to 
get on Board with eProcurement.
The 100% Model aims to increase the ROI by engaging with all suppliers electronically, 
where the savings would be significantly higher than engaging only the top 20% of suppliers.

There are still significant opportunities to 
substantially grow our business and I am looking 
forward to the challenges of the next year as we 
take advantage of these.
_0_@uk_ar06_front.indd   10 20/04/2007   09:13:34 10
@UK PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Bernard Fisher – 56
(Non Executive Chairman)
Bernard Fisher brings extensive plc experience 
to @UK. Most notably he was a main Board 
Director at Sage Software plc between 1989 
and 1996. Previous roles include Managing 
Director of Ashton Tate Inc.’s European 
subsidiaries and International Managing 
Director of Ansa Software Inc. Bernard has 
held Non Executive and executive roles on 
the Boards of European and American public 
and private companies and has run French, 
German and American businesses.
Grant Oliver – 54 
(Chief Executive Officer)
Grant Oliver has worked in the IT and 
Software sector for more than 15 years 
both with public and private companies. 
His recent experience has been in providing 
supply chain management software which 
reduces costs by rationalising the supply 
base. He has many years’ experience of 
working with multinationals in the UK, 
Europe and the USA and has managed 
companies that have provided software 
and services to the Local Authorities, NHS, 
IT and telecommunications, financial services, 
petrochemical and manufacturing sectors.
Lyn Duncan – 48 
(Business Development Director)
Lyn Duncan co-founded @UK in 1999, 
having gained a particular interest in the 
procurement field and has been actively 
working in this area since the late 1980s 
when she worked with Henley Management 
Consultants on a product which integrated 
purchasing and marketing processes. Her wider 
interest in technology developed when working 
for BT as a manager of emerging technologies, 
introducing shared computing and email into 
BT’s corporate client base through a series 
of flagship business centres. Prior to founding 
@UK, she worked as a management consultant 
(both at Oasis and as an independent consultant 
leading on national initiatives within the NHS) 
gaining over ten years’ experience of leading 
technology-driven change initiatives in the 
public and private sectors.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND ADVISERS
_0_@uk_ar06_front.indd   11 20/04/2007   09:13:39 @
11
@UK PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
John Aiken – 47 
(Chief Financial Officer)
John Aiken is a Chartered Accountant, 
qualifying in the London office of KPMG, 
and is experienced in managing technology 
businesses. Since leaving KPMG, he has 
subsequently been Finance Director at two 
listed Groups, Usborne plc and SEP Industrial 
Holdings plc, prior to a reverse takeover by 
iRevolution plc. He joined @UK in 2005 from 
Hamsard Group plc where he was Group 
Finance Manager.
Ronald Duncan – 44 
(Chief Technical Officer)
Ronald Duncan co-founded @UK in 1999. 
Prior to @UK, he spent ten years running 
his own computer software consultancy, 
servicing projects using a range of languages 
and platforms. Ronald studied Physics at 
Cambridge and is a Chartered Physicist and 
Member of the Institution of Analysts and 
Programmers. He is a former UK downhill ski 
champion who competed internationally for 
ten years, including at two Olympics.
Jo Connell – 59 
(Non Executive)
Until March 2003, Jo Connell was the 
Managing Director of Xansa plc, overseeing 
a period of significant growth. She joined Xansa 
in 1977, after spending five years at CMG, 
becoming a member of the Xansa Board in 
1991 and chief operating officer in July 1997. 
Jo is also a Non Executive Director of Cornwell 
Management Consultants plc, Thus plc and is 
a governor of the University of Hertfordshire.
Michael Tobin – 43 
(Non Executive)
With over 20 years’ experience in the IT 
industry, Michael Tobin is currently the 
Chief Executive of Redbus Interhouse Plc, 
a co-location industry leader in the UK and 
Continental Europe. Prior to joining Redbus, 
he was the General Manager of ICL Fujitsu’s 
e-business operations in Germany.
Company Secretary
Alice Mary Teresa 
Morwood-Leyland
Company number
3732253
Registered office
5 Jupiter House  
Calleva Park 
Aldermaston 
Reading 
Berkshire RG7 8NN
Nominated adviser
Shore Capital & Corporate 
Limited
Bond Street House 
14 Clifford Street 
London W1S 4JU
Broker
Shore Capital Stockbrokers 
Limited
Ground Floor 
The Corn Exchange 
Fenwick Street 
Liverpool L2 7RB
Solicitors to the Company
Halliwells LLP
St James’s Court 
Brown Street 
Manchester M2 2JF
Auditor to the Company
Baker Tilly
Chartered Accountants 
The Clock House 
140 London Road 
Guildford GU1 1UW
Bankers
HSBC
No 2 The Parade 
Mulfords Hill 
Tadley 
Hants RG26 3LG 
Registrars
Computershare Investor 
Services PLC
Vintners’ Place 
68 Upper Thames Street 
London EC4V 3BJ
_0_@uk_ar06_front.indd   12 20/04/2007   09:13:43
