 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 1 Financial Highlights 
2 Chairman’s Statement
3 Chief Executive’s Review
Business Review 
4 Chelton
Antennas
Avionics and Surveillance
Defence Electronic Systems
6 Aerospace Systems
Air Refuelling and Auxiliary Mission Equipment
Life Support
8 Flight Operations & Services
Special Mission Flight Operations
Aircraft Engineering
Outsourced Commercial Aviation
Military T raining
10 Financial Review
14 Cobham’s Commitment to Corporate Responsibility
18 Our Strategy
20 Our New Structure
22 Board of Directors
24 Directors’ Report
26 Corporate Governance
29 Directors’ Remuneration Report 
35 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
Group Accounts
36 Independent Auditors’ Report
37 Accounting Policies
42 Consolidated Income Statement 
43 Consolidated Balance Sheet 
44 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
45 Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
46 Notes to the Group Financial Statements 
80 Group Financial Record 
Parent Company Accounts
81 Independent Auditors’ Report
82 Accounting Policies
84 Parent Company Balance Sheet
85 Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses
85 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds
86 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
93 Shareholder Information 
82 Cobham plc
Contents Profile
Cobham plc is an
international company
engaged in the development,
delivery and support of
advanced aerospace and
defence systems in 
the air, on land, at sea and
in space.The company has
five technology divisions
and one service division that
collectively specialise in the
provision of components,
subsystems and services
that keep people safe,
improve communications
and enhance the
performance of aerospace
and defence platforms.
Front cover: Cobham’s synthetic vision Electronic Flight Instrument System (EFIS) Annual Report & Accounts 2005 1
Financial Highlights
Earnings per ordinary share
– basic 8.71p 
(2004: 9.00p)
-3.2%
Earnings per ordinary share 
– fully diluted 8.66p 
(2004: 8.94p)
-3.1%
Earnings per ordinary share*
– underlying 10.58p 
(2004: 9.12p)
+16.0%
Interim Dividend
– paid 13 December 2005 1.01p 
(2004: 0.92p)
+10%
Recommended final dividend 
– payable 7 July 2006 2.40p 
(2004: 2.18p)
+10%
Recommended dividend per ordinary share 
3.41p 
(2004: 3.10p)
+10%
Revenue (continuing and discontinued)*
£1,090.4m
(2004: £979.0m)
+11.4%
Underlying profit before taxation*
£167.0m
(2004: £142.3m)
+17.4%
Trading profit*
£177.7m 
(2004: £150.0m)
+18.5%
Military Non Military
Analysis of revenue
£m
0
1,200
800
1,000
600
400
200
’04 ’05
533
489.5
557
489.5
1,090
979
Earnings per ordinary share – underlying
Pence
0
12
8
10
6
4
2
’04 ’05
10.58
9.12
Dividend
Pence
0
4
2
3
1
’04 ’05
3.41
3.10
*To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, trading profit (formerly underlying operating profit) and underlying earnings have been defined to exclude the impact of the amortisation of intangible assets recognised upon
acquisition and the impact of the marking to market of foreign exchange derivatives not realised in the period.All underlying measures also include the revenue and operational results of both continuing and discontinued businesses
until the point of sale, but exclude exceptional profits or losses arising on disposals actually completed during the period. None exist in the current period, but any impairments of goodwill would also be excluded. Cobham Air Refuelling and
Auxiliary Mission Equipment
Cobham Antennas
Cobham Avionics and Surveillance
Cobham Defence Electronic Systems
Cobham Life Support
Cobham Services
2 Cobham plc
Chairman’s Statement
Gordon Page, Chairman
Results
Group revenue in 2005 (continuing and
discontinued) increased by 11% to £1,090.4
(2004: £979.0m). Profit before taxation decreased
by 1.2% to £138.9 (2004: £140.6m). Trading profit
rose by 18.5% to £177.7m (2004: £150.0m) and
underlying profit before tax rose by 17.4% 
to £167.0m (2004: £142.3m). It gives me great
pleasure to be able to report another set of
record results.
Underlying earnings per share of 10.58p (2004:
9.12p) were 16.0% higher than the previous year
and your directors have recommended a final
dividend of 2.40p per share (2004: 2.18p).
Together with the interim dividend of 1.01p 
(2004: 0.92p) which was paid in December 2005,
this represents an increase of 10% compared 
to 2004. Subject to shareholders’ approval, the 
final dividend will be paid on 7 July 2006 to 
all shareholders on the register at 2 June 2006.
Further information on these results are detailed
in the Financial Review on page 10.
Corporate Development
During the year the Group completed a
comprehensive strategic review, the details of
which are set out later in this report. Continuation
of organic growth and acquisition together with
an increased focus on technology development
will underpin sustained future growth. Reshaping of
the Group’s portfolio is largely complete although
there are likely to be further refinements in 2006.
A number of acquisitions were made in 2005 and
are set out in this report.The two most significant
were announced at the end of 2004 and completed
in 2005.They were H Koch and Sons for a cash
consideration of US$51m, and REMEC Defense &
Space Inc. for a cash consideration of US$257m.
Both have been successfully integrated into the
Group and we look forward to them each making
a significant contribution to the Group’s future
prosperity. In November the Group’s Fluid and 
Air distribution business was sold to the US-based
Eaton Corporation for a cash consideration 
of £150m.
People
Marcus Beresford was appointed Senior
Independent Director in 2005, replacing Mike
Smith who retired in June 2005 after nine years 
as a Board member. Mike Smith made an
outstanding contribution to the Group and,
on behalf of the Board, I thank him and wish 
him a long and happy future.
In June 2005 Geoff Cooper resigned after ten
years as an executive director and again, on behalf
of the Board, I thank him for his significant
contribution and wish him well for the future.
Dr John Patterson, Executive Director Development
of AstraZeneca plc, was appointed a non executive
director of the Group on 1 November 2005. He
brings wide ranging and relevant experience to
the Group and we welcome him to the Board.
2005 presented many internal and external
challenges to the Group as we refocused on 
a sharper technology-driven approach to our
business. In these circumstances we owe thanks
and appreciation to our employees for their skill
and dedication. I thank them sincerely.
G F Page
Chairman
7 April 2006
2005 has been a successful and
transformational year 
REMEC Defense & Space Inc.
is a pivotal acquisition
Six divisions created with 
a flatter, more simplified
management structure 
The Group’s focus on technology
leadership is the key to growth
as the market and industry
evolution continues
REMEC Defense & Space Inc.,
San Diego, California, USA
Cobham’s six new divisions Annual Report & Accounts 2005 3
Chief Executive’s Review
Allan Cook, Chief Executive
Introduction
2005 has been a successful year and the start of a
transformational process.We have delivered a strong
financial performance, successfully integrated our
largest acquisition to date and completed a strategic
review which is a defining point for Cobham.
Implementation of this strategy is proceeding well
with good progress in reshaping the portfolio with
value already being derived from disposals, and with
improvements in operating performance.
Market in Context
The UK Defence Industrial Strategy (DIS) and the
Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) in the USA
have provided good visibility of priorities.
US military budgets continue to rise with renewed
emphasis on intelligence, communication and
the efficient and safe deployment of assets,
areas where Cobham is a market leader for land,
sea and airborne platforms.
Cobham will continue to benefit from the 
growth in aircraft and passenger numbers in the
commercial and civil markets, for both fixed and
rotary wing aircraft. Customers increasingly place
a premium on products that enhance the safety,
efficiency and utility of platforms, which align
with the Group’s technology focus.
Business Overview
2005 was a successful year for us with double-
digit growth in revenue, trading profit and
underlying earnings per share and an improvement
in operating cash conversion to 99%.Across the
Group we were successful in winning some major
contracts that will underpin our future growth.
New order intake increased by 24%.The order
book at the end of March 2006 was more than
£1.8bn including the new Coastwatch contract.
Chelton had a very strong year. As well as the
acquisition of REMEC Defense & Space Inc.
(REMEC), the performance was underpinned by
double-digit organic growth in revenue and
trading profit.This performance has been driven
by a relentless focus on technology investment
in new products that meet very demanding
customer requirements.
The Aerospace Systems Group reported relatively
flat revenue, with sales impacted by the disposal
of Fluid and Air in November and the acquisition
of H Koch and Sons. Organic growth in trading
profit for the Air Refuelling and Auxiliary Mission
Equipment Division was particularly strong and
this, together with other operational performance
improvements, more than offset transaction
exchange headwind.
Margins in Flight Operations and Services have
normalised following the exceptional result in
2004. Revenue was slightly up and trading profit
reduced reflecting higher bid costs, fuel price
increases for outsourced flying for the Australian
resource industry, and lower profitability on the
renewed Qantas contract.
Prospects
Our proven technologies and those under
development position us well to take advantage 
of the evolution and growth of the aerospace
and defence market, where we serve a wide range
of civil and military customers.
Looking ahead, we will secure additional benefits
from portfolio reshaping and the operating
performance improvement programme, and
investment in R&D.The Group continues to seek
acquisitions and to dispose of some smaller
companies, both of which will enhance
shareholder value.
People
Finally, let me extend my thanks to our people.
We achieved an immense amount in 2005 
driven by the passion, energy and commitment 
of our people. It is a privilege to lead this world-
class organisation.
Allan Cook,
Chief Executive
7 April 2006 
Cobham’s strategy
Defence spending in the USA
continues to be robust
Good visibility of US and UK
defence priorities
Civil aerospace market remains
buoyant
Cobham’s technology focus
aligns with customer demands
Excellent organic growth
prospects and order book
Focus 
on leading
technology
positions
Build
capabilities
Drive
operating
performance
Enhanced shareholder value 
through profitable growth 4 Cobham plc 4 Cobham plc
Business Review: Chelton
Tuning and testing of an advanced antenna
In Antennas, the A400M aircraft has become a
major platform for Cobham’s communications
and navigation antennas, with selection by EADS
CASA to supply phased array electronically
steerable SATCOM antennas. Cobham will provide
European logistical support once the aircraft
enters into service.
In the USA, Cobham was selected by Boeing to
supply communications and data link antennas
as part of the avionics modernisation programme
for the C130 aircraft both for standard and special
operations configurations.
An agreement has been reached with Rockwell
Collins to supply Traffic Collision Avoidance
Antennas for a further five years and the first
deliveries were made of high-speed data SATCOM
systems for Embraer and Gulfstream for factory
installation on new aircraft.The SATCOM system
provides an office-in-the-sky capability including
internet and high quality voice and data link
communications.Throughout the Group, sales 
of SATCOM antennas have benefited from the
superior performance offered by Cobham products.
In January Cobham acquired WA Systems Limited
in the UK, a company that specialises in software
and hardware solutions primarily in the aerospace 
and defence domain with Battle Management
Systems supporting soldier, vehicle and naval
platforms. Existing BattleHawk and WaveHawk
products form the basis of current and future
developments which include unique Soldier C4I
(Command, control, communications, computers
and intelligence) solutions for a number of
modernisation programmes around the world.
In February the Group announced the acquisition
of Mastsystem Intl’l Oy (Mastsystem) based in
Joensuu, Finland in a move that strengthens
Cobham’s land domain products.The company
designs, manufactures and markets telescopic
antenna mast systems for use in defence markets,
including portable and mobile telescopic masts 
of carbon and glass fibre composite construction.
In June, Cobham acquired 100% of the share
capital of Vector Fields Ltd (Vector) based in the
UK.Vector develops and supplies commercial
antenna and microwave software products 
and has customers in Asia, Europe and the USA.
In September Cobham completed the acquisition
of the remaining 60% of the shares in US-based
TracStar.TracStar’s steerable land-based antenna
SATCOM products recorded very strong sales
driven in part by the US Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) disaster response 
to the autumn hurricane activity.
Cobham’s innovative, small footprint interference
cancellation product mINCAN was selected by
the US Army and won acceptance onto the US
Coastguard Rescue 21 programme. Interference
cancellation is a requirement where data link or
speech systems are operated in a jamming or high
interference environment in order to maintain
signal integrity, and is key to successful network-
centric communications.Wider military interest
continues to be shown as mINCAN is a fraction of
the size of previous systems which are deployed
at sea and in fixed ground installations.
Synthetic vision Electronic 
Flight Instrument System (EFIS)
Strong performance with good
organic and acquisition growth
Presence increased on key land,
sea and air platforms including
the Global Hawk UAV
US$100m order for Synthetic
Vision EFIS on Bell helicopters Annual Report & Accounts 2005 5 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 5
In Avionics and Surveillance one of the most
significant successes for Cobham in 2005 was 
the selection by Bell Helicopters to supply 
its synthetic environment Electronic Flight
Instrument System (EFIS) as standard equipment
on a number of their helicopter platforms.This is
the first major Original Equipment Manufacturer
(OEM) success for the EFIS and makes Bell the
first major OEM to offer synthetic vision for all
light and medium single engine helicopters. It is
anticipated that there will be a strong upgrade
market for the EFIS.
Significant orders have been received from the 
US Army for tactical communications equipment
and customer evaluation of the new Wulfsberg
Fliteline avionics suite has started. Sales of the
COSPAS-SARSAT compliant search and rescue
beacon products have also been strong.
In Defence Electronic Systems, there has been
excellent growth which is anticipated to continue.
US military requirements for a light vehicle
variant of the ROVIS vehicle intercom system are
the largest contributor to this growth with many
of the newly equipped vehicles destined for Iraq
and Afghanistan.
Following the acquisition of REMEC in May 2005
the financial performance has been strong.
In line with expectations, REMEC increased
Cobham's presence on key platforms including
the F-35, F-18 Growler, DDX Multi-Mission
Surface Combatant ship, Common 
Data Link,Aerial Common Sensor, and the US
Coastguard Deepwater programme and Global
Hawk Uninhabited Aerial Vehicle (UAV).
Since acquisition, significant orders have been
received for the US F/A-22 and a number of
missile programmes.These include unique 
radio frequency and microwave modules that 
are used in the radar, electronic warfare and
integrated communications, navigation and
identification (CNI) systems on the F/A-22.
Delivery of these modules will be integrated 
with the current orders and is scheduled to be
completed in 2007.
In July Cobham announced the acquisition of
selected assets of the Microwave Development
Company (MDC) based in Salem, New Hampshire,
USA to further strengthen the already successful
microwave business. MDC develops and
manufactures microwave products that are vital
to network-centric warfare, primarily for the US
military market. During the year the business and
staff were integrated into an existing microwave
facility in New Hampshire as planned.
Cobham provides an
eleven part ship set for
the Global Hawk UAV
Signal Intelligence
payload
Revenue
£m
0
600
300
500
400
200
100
’04 ’05
519.2
408.5
Trading profit
£m
0
120
80
100
60
’04 ’05
102.5
71.0 6 Cobham plc
Business Review:Aerospace Systems
Inspection of a fourth generation 
air refuelling pod
In Air Refuelling and Auxiliary Mission
Equipment, Cobham was selected by Airbus to
supply its fourth generation refuelling systems for
the tanker versions of the A400M military transport
aircraft for Germany, Spain and France.The order
consolidated Cobham’s position as the market
leader for strategic and tactical air refuelling
solutions, with the A400M carrying wing pod
dispensing equipment and hose drum units for
centreline refuelling operations.Work continues
on the A330 Multi Role T anker Transport (MRTT)
programme which has now passed the critical
design review for the launch customer in Australia.
In Sweden, air refuelling trials were successfully
completed using a Swedish C-130E tanker and
Gripen single and dual-seat fighters which flew 
a total of six sorties.The Swedish C-130 tanker
was fitted with the latest generation 904E wing
pods which include an all-electric hose reel supply,
proven cockpit control systems, variable drag
drogue technology and flexibility to role change.
V-22 Osprey and Gripen fighters were fitted 
with Cobham’s space saving telescopic probes.
These probes, comprising a three-tube aluminium
design, extend out to a length of approximately
four metres when receiving fuel, and retract fully
into the structure of the aircraft to give maximum
aerodynamic benefits.
Outside Europe, excellent progress has been 
made in delivering air refuelling pods to the 
Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC)
programme, to Lockheed Martin for the 
US Marine Corps C-130J and upgrades for the 
Su-30. Cobham continues to develop its links 
with India as a growing market and is providing
both refuelling and weapons carriage release
systems for their use.
In air refuelling, Cobham provides wing pod
refuelling systems on the A330,A310,A400M,
C130 and KC130J aircraft together with advanced
systems for large, medium and small fighter-to-
fighter refuelling systems.All systems are capable
of being fitted with variable speed drogues whose
capability is being further enhanced under the
Group’s accelerated technology development
programme.
Major orders were received for Eurofighter Typhoon
tranche two weapons carriage and release products
for deliveries over the next five years. Cobham is
the design authority for the platform’s defensive
aid chaff and flare systems which have now entered
into service after extensive qualification testing.
In the USA, a further low rate initial production
order was received to provide Boeing with the
BRU-61/A pneumatic weapons carriage release
system assembly. The first weapon integrated on
the carriage will be the Boeing Small Diameter
Bomb, with the US Air Force planning to use the
carriage to deliver a family of miniature munitions
in the future.The BRU-61/A can accommodate
four small weapons on aircraft weapon stations.
The previous carriage was only able to carry one
precision-guided munition.
In Life Support, completion of the acquisition 
of H Koch & Sons has provided Cobham with 
a complementary range of personal survival
equipment. Since acquisition, the business has
won important orders for restraints to be fitted 
to the US Army’s T ank-automotive and Armament
Command (TACOM) fleet of High Mobility
Multipurpose Wheeled V ehicles (HMMWV).
The Group won a major order to supply Super
Integrated Passenger Service Units (SIPSUs) for
the Boeing 787 aircraft. The SIPSU integrates the
electronic unit including wiring, reading lights, air
outlet and emergency oxygen.
The summer of 2005 saw the first widespread 
use of Cobham’s Air Warrior Microclimate Cooling
System by US Army helicopter pilots during
operations in Iraq.The system greatly increases
the operational effectiveness of aircrew and
consists of a vapour compression-based chiller
which cools water and pumps it through a tubed
garment worn by the user. Cobham designs and
manufactures the Microclimate Cooling Unit
(MCU) which lies at the heart of the system.
€85m Airbus order for fourth
generation pods for A400M
£130m Eurofighter Typhoon
orders for weapons carriage 
and release 
Successful trials for HMMWV
personal safety equipment
US$200m passenger service
units order for Boeing 787 
AFSOC MC-130H ‘Combat T alon II’ refuelling 
V-22 Osprey with telescopic probe Annual Report & Accounts 2005 7
Cobham received the initial delivery order for the
Advanced Oxygen Systems from the US Navy.
This is the first of several releases from a four year
contract of science and technology development
funding from NAVAIR in the USA, to develop
Integrated Manifold and Tube (IMAT) Ceramic
Oxygen Generating Systems (COGS) for aviation
applications.The research and development
efforts focus on three primary areas: IMAT COGS
generator, enabling and supporting technologies,
and advanced methods for monitoring and
controlling oxygen production.
Officials from the March Air Reserve Base, California,
USA, took delivery of their first Boeing C-17
Globemaster III airlifter which included Cobham’s
On Board Inert Gas Generating System (OBIGGS).
The system displaces potentially explosive mixtures
of air fuel vapors with nitrogen making the aircraft
less vulnerable to fuel vapor explosions.
Elsewhere in the USA, Cobham won an initial order
for an advanced joint service water-activated
personnel parachute release (JWARS) from the
Naval Air Systems Command. JW ARS is designed to
replace current release systems that enable aircrew
to automatically separate from their parachutes
upon landing in water.
The initial contract award is for the qualification
and integration of JWARS hardware for all
USN/USMC/USAF ejection seat equipped aircraft
with qualification scheduled for completion in
2006. Ultimately, the device will be fitted on all
US military ejection seat equipped aircraft and
increase the breadth of Cobham’s life support
business with the US forces.
Cobham designs and
manufactures multi-
missile launcher and
missile eject launchers
for METEOR missiles on
the Eurofighter Typhoon
Revenue
£m
0
400
200
300
100
’04 ’05
374.0
382.0
Trading profit
£m
0
80
40
60
20
’04 ’05
60.5
59.3 8 Cobham plc 8 Cobham plc
Business Review: Flight Operations and Services
Coastwatch mission equipment operator 
on board a Dash 8 aircraft
In Special Mission Flight Operations Cobham
was awarded preferred bidder status in 2005 for
the prestigious Australian Coastwatch contract.
On 3 March 2006 a A$1bn, 12 year contract was
signed to provide key elements of a border patrol
service to the Australian government. Under the
new contract Cobham will provide, operate and
maintain an updated fleet of ten Dash 8 aircraft
through to the year 2020, starting in January
2008. It is Cobham’s biggest ever single order to
date and underlines the Group’s surveillance
expertise in an increasingly demanding network-
centric environment.
The new service, based on Bombardier Dash 8
aircraft, will double the fleet of fully electronic
surveillance aircraft available under the existing
contract from five to ten.The aircraft will provide
all-weather, day and night electronic surveillance
of Australia’s maritime Exclusive Economic Zone
to detect and deter illegal activity such as drug
and people smuggling, illegal fishing and
environmental offences.
In January 2006 the Group announced the
acquisition of the minority interest in its 51%
owned UK-based flight inspection subsidiary
Flight Precision Limited (FPL) and the entire issued
share capital of Aerodata Flight Inspection GmbH
(AFI) in Germany, from Aerodata AG.
FPL and AFI have military and civil customers
throughout the UK, the Netherlands, Spain,
Portugal, Germany and countries in North Africa
and the Middle East.The acquisitions enhance
Cobham’s market-leading position in the highly
specialised flight inspection service market.The
market worldwide is growing steadily with the
emergence of new airports and equipment
upgrades and a trend by military and civil
organisations to outsource flight inspection
activities.With an enlarged fleet of common
aircraft and bases in the UK and mainland Europe,
Cobham is well placed for further growth.
In Aircraft Engineering, a 20 year contract was
won to support the UK fleet of E-3D Sentry
Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS)
aircraft at RAF Waddington. Cobham is a member
of a team led by Northrop Grumman, that includes
BAE Systems and the AAR Corporation, that
provides logistics support under the E-3D Sentry
Whole Life Support Programme.The contract
builds on a Partnering Agreement signed with 
BAE Systems in 2004 with Cobham being the
preferred maintenance provider to BAE Systems
for large military aircraft.The E-3D Sentry
programme, together with Cobham’s support 
of the Nimrod fleet at RAF Kinloss represent 
good organic growth and brings the total number
of military bases where Cobham personnel are
located to five.
An order was received for the conversion of 
two DC10 aircraft to air refuelling tankers.The
conversion using Cobham air refuelling pods will
be carried out at Bournemouth International
Airport and be completed in 2006.
E-3D Sentry Airborne Warning and Control
System aircraft maintained by Cobham
£50m, 20 year maintenance
contract for UK E-3D Sentry 
Falcon 20 fleet conversion to
glass cockpit completed early 
A$100m Qantas 717 order
A$1bn, 12 year Australian
Coastwatch contract  Annual Report & Accounts 2005 9 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 9
In Outsourced Commercial Aviation, a new two
year freight contract was signed with Australian
air Express (AaE), a joint venture between Qantas
and Australia Post, to continue operating five
B727s. Cobham is Australia’s largest operator of
containerised jet aircraft operating five B727s and
three BAe 146 freighters. On behalf of AaE,
Cobham flies 70,000 tonnes of priority freight and
mail annually throughout Australia.
A contract, initially worth approximately A$100m,
was finalised to operate and maintain a fleet of
eight Boeing 717s on behalf of Qantas in Australia.
Five Boeing 717s were introduced into service in
2005 replacing BAe 146 aircraft already operated
by Cobham, with three more to be introduced in
2006.The eight 115 seat passenger jets will be
used on QantasLink regional routes in Western
Australia, the Northern Territory and Northern
Queensland.The first new aircraft was put into 
service in only four months illustrating the flexibility
and responsiveness of Cobham, highlighting why
Qantas chose to extend its relationship with
Cobham in a very competitive environment. Each
aircraft is anticipated to operate for between two
and three years under the new contract.
In Military T raining, the upgrade of the
Falcon 20 fleet of aircraft to glass cockpit was
completed ahead of schedule, with 14 aircraft
converted and fully operational. Discussions on
Electronic Warfare training needs for the
Eurofighter Typhoon have commenced.
One of eight Boeing
717 aircraft operated
and maintained on
behalf of Qantas 
in Australia
Revenue
£m
0
200
100
150
50
’04 ’05
197.2
188.5
Trading profit
£m
0
25
15
20
5
10
’04 ’05
17.2
22.0 10 Cobham plc
Financial Review
Warren Tucker, Group Financial Director
Basis of Reporting
In line with the regulatory requirements for UK
listed companies, the Group financial statements
in this report have been prepared in accordance
with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS), together with the associated International
Financial Reporting Interpretation Council (IFRIC)
interpretations and those parts of the Companies
Act 1985 applicable to entities reporting under 
IFRS.All relevant financial comparatives for 2004
have also been presented on an IFRS basis. Parent
company accounts have been presented in
accordance with UK GAAP.
To assist with the understanding of earnings trends,
underlying profit and earnings have been defined
to exclude the impact of the amortisation of
intangible assets recognised upon acquisition 
and the impact of marking to market of foreign
exchange derivatives not realised in the period.
All underlying measures also include revenue 
and operational results of both continuing and
discontinued businesses, until the point of sale,
but exclude exceptional profits or losses arising 
on disposals actually completed in the period.
Financial Record
• Share price increased by 37.0% and Cobham
delivered total shareholder return of 39.6%
• Operating cash flow of £172.1m (2004:
£124.9m), which is a conversion rate of 98.6%
(2004: 84.7%) to trading profit, excluding profit
after tax from joint ventures
• Free cash flow £122.4m (2004: £99.7m)
• Underlying profit before tax increased by
17.4% to £167.0m (2004: £142.3m)
• Underlying earnings per share increased 
by 16.0% to 10.58p
• Recommended dividend per share increased 
by 10%
Accounting Policies
The Board has reviewed the accounting policies in
accordance with IAS 8 and determined that they
are appropriate for the Group.
Transition to IFRS
On 6 June 2005 the Group published an analysis of
the impact of adopting IFRS from 1 January 2004.
During the transition process it was discovered
that the accounting for the acquisition of
National Jet Systems in 2000 excluded the
required provisions for maintenance and return
conditions for leased aircraft.This has now been
corrected. For full details see note 29 to the Group
Financial Statements. In addition, some minor
adjustments have been made to the IFRS
conversion to reflect reclassification more
accurately and the amended reconciliations can
be seen in note 40 of the Notes to the Group
Financial Statements.
Acquisitions and Investments in Associates
During the year the company completed seven
acquisitions for a total net cash consideration of
£189.0m and contingent consideration of £3.4m.
In October 2005, agreement was reached to
purchase the remaining equity of the Group’s
40% associate TracStar Inc. for total cash
consideration of US$7.4m.
In January 2006, agreement was reached to acquire
the minority interest in its 51% owned subsidiary
Flight Precision Ltd, together with the equity of
Aerodata Flight Inspection GmbH for a debt-free
total consideration of €11.2m.These transactions
were completed in February 2006.
Discontinued Businesses
During the year, the Board decided to dispose 
of various business operations, in line with the
Group’s strategy to focus on key markets and
value-added technologies.
Double-digit growth in revenue,
trading profit and earnings 
per share 
Excellent operating cash
conversion 
Good progress on portfolio
reshaping with value derived
from disposals  Annual Report & Accounts 2005 11
On 27 June 2005, an announcement was made 
to dispose of the Cobham Fluid Systems products
division, which produces equipment for handling
specialist fluids and gases for non-airborne
applications.The disposal of this division was
completed on 1 August 2005, on which date control
of this business passed to the acquirer.
On 28 June 2005, the Board decided to dispose 
of the Group’s countermeasures operations 
and the process has now been completed. FR
Countermeasures Inc was sold on 23 December
2005 and accordingly, this has been treated 
as a disposal in these Financial Statements.
On 8 March 2006 a definitive agreement was
signed to sell Wallop Defence Systems Ltd (WDSL)
and this is classified as held for sale and presented
separately in the balance sheet.The operations are
included in the Aerospace Systems division in the
Group’s segmental analysis.The proceeds of
disposal of WDSL exceeded the book value of the
related net assets and accordingly no impairment
losses have been recognised on the classification of
these operations as held for sale and their results
are reported within discontinued operations.The
disposal was completed on 27 March 2006.
On 13 September 2005, an announcement was
made to dispose of the Fluid and Air group of
companies.This group designs and manufactures
hydraulic and air distribution assemblies, composite
struts and shafts, fuel pumps and fuel components.
The disposal was completed on 17 November 2005,
on which date control of the whole of the Fluid
and Air group operations passed to the acquirer.
Profit before taxation decreased to £138.9m
(2004: £140.6m), primarily due to IFRS conversion
relating to derivative instruments and amortisation
of intangible assets recognised on acquisition.
However, profit before tax on an underlying basis
increased by 17.4% to £167.0m (2004: £142.3m).
Net finance expenses rose from £7.7m to £10.7m,
primarily as a result of the purchase of REMEC
Defense and Space Inc in May being only partially
offset by the cash inflow from the sale of the 
Fluid and Air division in November.
Results
Group revenue increased by 11.4% to £1,090.4m
(2004: £979.0m). Trading profit, excluding the
impact of the company’s share in the post tax
results from joint ventures increased by 18.5%
to £174.6m (2004: £147.4m). The company’s
share of profit from joint ventures and
associates after interest and tax charges 
rose from £2.6m in 2004 to £3.1m in 2005.
Underlying selling, distribution and
administration costs were 12.4% of revenue
(2004: 12.1%).
Total revenue comprises the following:
£m 2004 2005
Revenue from continuing 
activities 832.3 970.3
Revenue from discontinued 
activities 146.7 120.1
Total Revenue 979.0 1,090.4
Total trading profit comprises the following:
£m 2004 2005
Trading profit from 
continuing activities 143.8 170.0
Trading profit from 
discontinued activities 6.2 7.7
T otal T rading Profit 150.0 177.7
Underlying profit before tax is as follows:
£m 2004 2005
Group Operating Profit (including discontinued operations) 148.3 144.7
Loss on revaluation of currency instruments Not applicable 16.1
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets arising on acquisition 1.7 16.9
Trading Profit 150.0 177.7
Net finance expense (including discontinued operations) (7.7) (10.7)
Underlying Profit before T axation 142.3 167.0
Taxation charge on underlying profit (40.4) (47.9)
Minority interest (0.3) (0.5)
Underlying Profit After T ax Attributable to Equity Shareholders 101.6 118.6
Underlying EPS 9.12 10.58 12 Cobham plc
Financial Review continued
Earnings per Share
The basic earnings per share was 8.71p (2004:
9.00p) whilst the fully diluted earnings per share
amounted to 8.66p (2004: 8.94p). However,
after adjusting for the amortisation of intangibles
recognised on acquisition, the loss on revaluation
of financial instruments the exceptional gain on
the sale of Fluid and Air division and the loss on
the sale of FR Countermeasures Inc, underlying
earnings per share increased by 16.0% to 10.58p
(2004: 9.12p).
Dividends
The directors are recommending a final ordinary
dividend of 2.40p (2004: 2.18p) which represents
an increase of 10% on last year. If approved by
shareholders, this will result in a total dividend 
of 3.41p per share (2004: 3.10p), also an increase 
of 10%.
The total ordinary dividend for the year will
absorb £38.3m (2004: £34.8m).
Financing
During 2005, the Group continued to generate
funds and, at the year end, the net debt was
£168.3m (2004: £163.9m). Included in this 
figure are all amounts owing under bank loans,
debenture loans, finance leases and other
borrowings.This debt represents a gearing level 
of 28.7% (2004: 30.7%). Net interest cover is 
at a prudent level of 15 times (2004:19 times).
2005 net debt is 0.8 times 2005 earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
The Group had two main borrowings outstanding
at the end of the year under the following facilities
a) The October 2002 private placement of Cobham
guaranteed senior notes which raised US$225m.
The facility comprises two series of notes
repayable in seven and ten years respectively.
As a result of an interest swap, the interest
expense varies with LIBOR.
b) The £300m five year multi-currency credit
agreement which was entered into in July 2005.
The borrowings carry a variable rate of interest.
US$260m of this facility, used to finance the
acquisition of REMEC Defense & Space Inc.,
has been swapped into fixed rate borrowings.
At the end of 2005 £241.6m had been drawn
under this agreement.
Cash Flow
The Group gives high priority to cash management.
It is therefore particularly pleasing to highlight the
operating and free cash flow generated in 2005
shown in the following summary. The operating cash
flow amounted to £172.1m (2004: £124.9m),
which is 98.6% (2004: 84.7%) of underlying
operating profit (excluding profits from joint venture
and associates). £122.4m (2004: £99.7m) of free
cash flow was generated.
Control over working capital continues to be 
a major focus within the operating companies
and growth in working capital over the year is 
less than would be expected given the underlying
growth in the business.As was the case in recent
years, a substantial proportion of the year’s
business was invoiced in the latter part of 2005
due, in part, to the defence procurement cycle.
Stock turns at the end of 2005 were steady at
3.7 times (2004: 3.7 times) and trade debtor 
days at the end of 2005 improved to 54 days
(2004: 56 days).The impact of acquisitions was 
to increase debtors by £13.2m and stocks by £9.9m.
Further detail relating to the cash flows and
movements in net debt of the Group is given 
in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement on 
page 44 and in note11 of the Notes to the Group
Financial Statements.A summary of the change 
in net debt is set out opposite.
Revenue Analysis
The table below categorises revenue into the
various end-market segments, of which military
remains the largest:
2004 2005
% %
Military 50 51
Commercial Aerospace 14 13
General Aviation 5 5
Outsourcing – non military 11 10
Government – non military 7 5
Telecommunications 7 8
Marine/Space/Law Enforcement 6 8
T axation
The tax charge of £40.8m (2004: £40.0m) on the
profit before tax of £138.9m (2004: £140.6m)
represents a rate of 29.4% (2004: 28.4%).
On an underlying basis, the effective rate for the
year would be 28.7% (2004: 28.4%).This adjusted
tax charge is lower than the prevailing tax rates
across the various countries in which the Group
operates, primarily because a benefit has arisen
from the tax credit for research and development
and the treatment required under IFRS for share 
of profit from joint ventures to be recorded net 
of interest and tax within profit before tax of the
Group. Further details on the tax charge can 
be found in note 4 of the Notes to the Group
Financial Statements. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 13
instruments are used to manage the foreign
exchange exposure, such as forward rate contracts
and options.
Details of the most significant of these are
described in note 25 of the Notes to the Group
Financial Statements.The Group has a policy of
managing 12 months of potential exposure on a
rolling three month basis.As a consequence, the
majority of the anticipated exposure to US$ in
the UK and European subsidiaries is hedged at 
an average rate of 1.76 for sterling for 2006.
Going Concern
The Group’s finances are sound and the balance
sheet remains strong.Accordingly, after making
enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement
at the time of approving the financial statements
that there is a reasonable expectation that the
company and the Group as a whole have adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for
the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
Group and Parent Company Financial Statements.
Warren T ucker
Group Financial Director
7 April 2006
Pensions
During the period the Group made normal
contributions to its defined benefits schemes 
of £3.4m in excess of the current service costs 
as assessed under IAS 19. In addition, a special
contribution of £24m was made in a withdrawal
agreement with the Cobham Pension Plan trustees
relating to the disposal of FR HiTemp Ltd. Cobham
remains committed to the support of the pension
schemes within the Group and continues to work
with the trustees of those schemes to ensure that
deficit issues are dealt with appropriately.
All of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes
are closed to new entrants, although alternative
defined contribution schemes have been offered
in all cases.
Foreign Exchange
The Group’s aim has been to reduce, or eliminate
where practical, foreign exchange risk.The pound
sterling/US dollar exchange rate is the most
important as far as the Group is concerned.This is
primarily due to the level of US dollars which the
UK and European subsidiaries expect to receive
from their business activities, as certain global
aerospace and defence contracts are denominated
in US dollars.Additionally, some exposure arises
from operating companies based in the USA,
offset partially by dollar denominated borrowings.
All significant foreign exchange transactions are
approved by the parent company. In addition to
the structured borrowing, a number of financial 
Cash Flow Analysis
2004 2005
Trading Profit (excluding joint ventures) 147.4 174.6
Depreciation and other movements 38.1 42.3
Increase in working capital and provisions (20.8) (6.6)
Net capital expenditure and financial investment (39.8) (38.2)
Operating cash flow 124.9 172.1
Net interest paid (7.3) (11.7)
T ax paid (22.9) (39.2)
Dividend received from joint venture 5.0 1.2
Free cash flow 99.7 122.4
Dividends paid (32.6) (36.1)
Net cash outflow for acquisitions less disposal proceeds (73.8) (64.9)
Movements in funding and exchange movements (2.0) (25.8)
Increase in net debt (8.7) (4.4) Cobham apprentices, Jack Prescott and Robin
Lane winners of 1st & 3rd place of the EEF
Apprentice of the Y ear Award for SW England
14 Cobham plc 14 Cobham plc
Cobham’s Commitment to Corporate Responsibility
Cobham’s commitment to Corporate Responsibility
was reinforced in June 2005 when it became a
signatory to a pioneering Sustainable Aviation
initiative sponsored by organisations including the
Society of British Aerospace Companies (SBAC).
The initiative commits UK companies over a 15
year period to a joint strategy aimed at enabling
people throughout the world to satisfy their basic
needs and to enjoy a better quality of life without
compromising the quality of life for future
generations. It is the first national sustainability
strategy ever produced for the aviation industry
and establishes the mechanisms for monitoring
and reporting on progress towards the eight goals
and 34 detailed commitments it sets out.
The delivery of the goals and commitments
outlined in Sustainable Aviation is a long-term
project to which Cobham is committed, in
particular with the aim of ensuring that the 
Group makes a positive contribution to the skills,
knowledge and motivation of all employees and
provides a safe and healthy work environment.
In September 2005, as part of its strategic review,
Cobham built on its commitment to Sustainable
Aviation announcing that priority was being
placed on the development of people’s capabilities
across the Group and the improvement of
operating performance.The latter including a
reduction in waste under an initiative referred 
to as ‘business lean’.
To help achieve these and related Group goals,
Cobham has an internal framework of policies 
and measures to enable companies to operate 
in an economically, environmentally and socially
responsible way.These policies cover the Group’s
approach to business ethics, fraud, equal
opportunities, health and safety, environment,
community involvement and whistle-blowing.
Corporate Responsibility Management
All Cobham sites have an environmental, human
resource and health and safety representative who
reports to the on-site Corporate Responsibility focal.
There is a dialogue between site representatives and
Cobham’s Corporate Responsibility Co-ordinator,
who reports to the Director of Special Projects.
The Director of Special Projects, who reports
directly to the Chief Executive, has overall
responsibility for Corporate Responsibility
performance. Other Group functions including
HR, Communications and Insurance and Risk,
support the Director of Special Projects.The Board
takes account of Corporate Responsibility issues in
its annual risk assessment, and monitors progress
throughout the year.
More information on the management and
development of Cobham’s people is in the
Directors’ Report on pages 24 and 25.
Board
Chief Executive
Director of Special Projects Group Insurance 
& Risk Manager
Group HR & Group
Communications
 Directors Cobham CR Co-ordinator
Site CR Focal
HR Environmental H&S
Signatory to a pioneering
Sustainable A viation initiative
which establishes the
mechanisms for monitoring and
reporting on progress towards a
range of specific objectives
Reduction in Accident 
incidence rate
Improvement in the efficiency 
of energy, waste and water use
29% of waste recycled
A full Corporate Responsibility
report will be published on the
Cobham website in May 2006
UK Sustainable Aviation initiative Annual Report & Accounts 2005 15
Attendees at the first risk management 
seminar in the USA
Cobham sponsors the Whale & Dolphin 
Conservation Society’s new research boat 
in Australia
Cobham staff present a cheque to a club 
in Scotland which provides support to adults
with learning difficulties
2005 Objectives Progress
Review Key Performance Indicators • KPIs have been revised and aligned with commitments to Sustainable Aviation 
• Greenhouse gas emissions removed as a key indicator, as data analysis proved emissions 
of green house gases other than CO 2 from energy use were insignificant
• Measures added for absence, training, and diversity at different levels across the organisation
• More information regarding local community complaints is now collected
Internal V erification of CR data • Programme of internal, independent verification began in 2005 with over 40% 
of companies by revenue in UK, Europe and the USA audited
• CR questionnaires revised to reflect feedback from internal/external stakeholders
and to improve guidance and definitions
Health and Safety Objectives T argets
Complete Corporate Review of •  Review of Health and Safety Policy and processes
Health and Safety policy and processes
• Dissemination of best practice across the Group
Environmental Objectives T arget
Reduce the environmental • Improve energy, water and waste efficiency by 10% of 2005 levels by 2010
impact of operations 16 Cobham plc
Cobham’s Commitment to Corporate Responsibility continued
Health and Safety
Nothing comes before safety in Cobham, an ethos
that extends to the many safety-related products
the Group produces. Cobham requires all
businesses to maintain Health and Safety systems
that are both compliant with Cobham policy 
and appropriate to the business, with the overall
objective of providing a safe and healthy work
environment. A Group review of Health and Safety
policy and processes, including training, commenced
in 2005.The objective is to help identify
opportunities for improvement and promote the
adoption of best practice across Cobham.
Significant progress has been made across
Cobham in the development of Health and Safety
programmes, with audits undertaken by a range
of external agencies including retained
consultants, insurers and related authorities.
In terms of key performance indicators, accident
incidence rate
1
reduced from 694 to 677.
The number of reportable accidents
2
remained
constant with one major injury as defined by the
Health and Safety Executive and one minor fine
by Health and Safety authorities, with remedial
action taken immediately.
Occupational Health Initiatives
Several Cobham companies provide occupational
health schemes, aimed at improving the well-being
of employees. One company in the USA achieved
a 50% increase in employee participation of its
EREDS programme (Eat Right. Exercise. Don’t
Smoke) by providing an on-site exercise facility.
A walking programme,“Step Closer To A Healthy
Holiday” was set up to help employee awareness
of steps they could take to manage their weight
and control stress levels as the holidays approached.
Contingency and disaster
recovery plans exercised and
improved in the UK and USA,
with safety bunkers established
by a company in the USA to
provide refuge against hurricanes
In Australia new fatigue and
shift work policies were
implemented and a safety
forum established to improve
communication and involvement
Cobham held its first USA Risk
Management Seminar which
was attended by all major
companies and covered Safety,
Health and Loss prevention
topics with external speakers
and best practice workshops
A steering group made up of
senior managers is performing 
a Group wide Health and Safety
Review of policy and process
Employees exercising during a lunch break
Accident Incident 
Rate
1
0
800
400
600
200
’04 ’05
677
694
Reportable accidents
2
0
80
40
60
20
’04 ’05
75
75
1
Accident Incidence rate means the total number of reportable injuries and other occurrences multiplied by 100,000 divided by the
average number of employees.
2
Reportable accidents mean work-related accidents, illness or disease resulting in more than three days’ absence. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 17
Wildlife habitat improvements on a test site
have helped buzzards breed successfully
A further three Cobham
companies achieved
accreditation to ISO 14001
Over 3,000 hours of
environmental training carried
out across the Group
Energy efficiency improved 
by 5%
Water efficiency improved 
by 24%
Waste efficiency improved 
by 6%
The ISO 14001 implementation team 
at Sargent Fletcher Inc, US
Waste efficiency
(tonnes/£m)
0
7
4
6
2
3
5
1
’04 ’05
5.9
6.3
Water efficiency
(m
3
/£m turnover)
0
250
150
200
100
50
’04 ’05
172
227
Energy efficiency
(mGJ/£1,000)
0
6
4
2
’04 ’05
5.4
5.7
Environmental Initiatives
Training
Over 3,000 hours of environmental training have
been carried out across the Group.
Reducing Hazard
Work has been carried out at several Cobham
companies on the replacement of hazardous
solvents with less hazardous systems.
Improving Biodiversity
One UK company leases and manages 11.5 acres
of heath and grassland that is located inside the
boundary of the New Forest National Park, with
the site bordered on three sides by SSSI
(designated Sites of Special Scientific Interest).
A decision was made to maintain a test range,
using the same guidelines as a SSSI with help 
and advice sought from organisations including
English Nature and The Hampshire and 
Isle Of Wight Wildlife T rust.
Improvements to the wildlife habitat, have seen
an increase in the population of reptiles, plants
and birdlife, with a breeding pair of buzzards
successfully raising two offspring in 2005.
Environment
Cobham is committed to protecting the
environment across all aspects of its business
operations. During 2005, a further three Cobham
companies had their environmental management
systems accredited to ISO 14001, bringing the
total to 11.
Environmental Impacts
The most significant impacts of Cobham’s activities
on the environment have been identified as
energy consumption, water consumption and
waste generation.
There is a variety of energy-intensive processes
across Cobham companies including aircraft
operations and the use of furnaces, autoclaves, wave
solder plant, and compressed air. However, many
Group companies have implemented energy saving
initiatives, including upgrading lighting fixtures
and improved lighting controls, programmable
timers on energy equipment, employee awareness
programmes and the commissioning of an energy
management system which has resulted in energy
efficiency in buildings and processes improving
from 5.7mGJ/£k in 2004 to 5.4mGJ/£k in 2005.
As well as domestic office usage, Cobham has
processes that are intensive consumers of water
including component cleaning, water-cooled
vacuums, cooling and dilution processes, water jet
machines, aircraft cleaning and irrigation.Water
efficiency has improved from 227m
3
/£m in 2004 to
172m
3
/£m in 2005 through the successful use of
initiatives including lean engineering process changes,
flow controls, automatic shut-off equipment,
commissioning of closed loop/ recirculation
systems, and increased re-use of waste water.
The principal wastes produced across Cobham are
of a general office nature, with other waste types
being packaging materials such as cardboard and
wood, and process wastes such as metals, metal
treatment solutions and machine oils. Initiatives
across the Group have resulted in the volume of
waste produced reducing from 6.3 tonnes/£m to
5.9 tonnes/£m in 2005. Overall, 29% of waste 
was recycled. 18 Cobham plc
Our Strategy: Focus, Capabilities and Performance
To build 
on our 
capabilities
To drive 
operating
performance
A radical change in 
collaboration across 
the Group and in divisions
Enhance existing 
capabilities at 
the divisional level
Strengthen Group capabilities,
including HR, Strategy and M&A
Significant efficiency
improvements, allowing
increased investment 
in technology
New ways of working – 
business lean
An integrated and standardised
approach to managing
performance across the Group
To focus on our
leading technology
positions 
Enhanced shareholder value through profitable growth
“To exploit and enhance our leadership in high-technology growth segments
of the aerospace and defence market.”
Consolidate and enhance 
market leadership in 
each segment
Increase investment 
in technology and focus 
in R&D expenditure
Exit businesses that do not 
align with the focused portfolio Annual Report & Accounts 2005 19
Bringing the best of Cobham to the customer
The strategic review announced in September 2005
determined that Cobham would focus on areas
where it can exploit and enhance its technological
leadership in high-growth segments of the
aerospace and defence market.This strategy will
help Cobham to consolidate and enhance its
market leadership, allow for an increase in R&D
investment, reinforce the Group’s upper quartile
aerospace and defence margins and enhance the
organic profit growth through market cycles.
The overall objective of the strategy is to enhance
shareholder value through accelerated, profitable
growth.The transformation of Cobham will 
take at least three years to implement based on:
1. Focusing the portfolio of companies and
increasing investment in technology.
2. Building on the capabilities of people across
the Group and creating an environment
which encourages performance and rewards
collaboration.
3. Using best practice from across the Group
and elsewhere to drive operating performance
and release funds for re-investment.
Cobham aims to focus its portfolio around
technologies and products within global aerospace
and defence markets where it can consolidate 
and enhance its leadership positions and deliver
profitable growth.The Group will focus on markets
that have attractive organic growth prospects,
and offer opportunities to enhance its position
through acquisition by bringing complementary
technologies, products and skills to the business.
In every market where Cobham competes, the
Group will be committed to bringing the best 
of Cobham to the customer, making it easier for
customers to understand the Group’s capabilities.
The portfolio and technology investments will be
constantly reviewed to ensure that they fit with
the strategy, and resources re-invested where 
they do not.
The Group is working to strengthen the
capabilities of its people and deliver a step change
in collaboration to bring the best of Cobham’s
capabilities and knowledge to bear for every
customer. Investments are being increased in
technology and product development capabilities
to bring new products and programmes to fruition
more quickly and at lower cost. Further investments
are being made in production capabilities across
the organisation to eliminate waste in production
processes and deliver what customers need, when
they need it.A strategic marketing function has
been established to help identify and improve
market penetration in an increasingly challenging
and global environment.These investments will
improve understanding of customer requirements
and ensure that Cobham develops products that
meet their current and future needs.
Cobham is driving the operational performance
of the business to capture the benefits of the
Group’s scale and generate synergies to reinvest
in the long-term health of the business through
technology investment and investment in the
capabilities of its people.This is being done
through a consistent and transparent approach 
to measuring and managing performance and
identifying opportunities across each of the six
divisions.As part of this, the Group is pursuing
integration opportunities within the current
portfolio and with acquisitions to create further
capacity for future growth.
Fluid and Air & Countermeasures
businesses sold
Resources strengthened at
Group and Divisional levels
Technology acceleration 
plans established
Operational improvements
identified to fund accelerated
technology development
Step change in cross-
divisional collaboration
2006 2007 2008
Strategic Marketing:
Operational Improvements:
Technology:
Working Capital
Integration
Procurement
Business Lean
Programme Management
Accelerated Development
Plans
Transformation – a three year plan
Attendees at a programme management 
course in the UK 20 Cobham plc
Cobham Air Refuelling and
Auxiliary Mission Equipment
Cobham Antennas Cobham Avionics and Surveillance
Our New Structure
With facilities on three continents Cobham
Antennas designs and manufactures off-
the-shelf and custom state-of-the-art
antenna components and sub-systems
that accommodate frequencies from 
2 MHz to 60 GHz. Designs include single
band, multi-band and combination
antennas to meet communication
requirements for aviation, space, vehicular,
watercraft and ground-based systems for
military and civil applications worldwide.
Cobham Avionics and Surveillance designs,
qualifies, manufactures, certifies and
supports a complete range of electronic
products for airborne, marine, land and
special purpose applications.The division
serves three principle markets:Avionics,
Law Enforcement/National Security and
Search and Rescue. Included in the product
base are fully certified Electronic Flight
Instrument Systems with complete cockpit
communication/navigation and sensor
capability, Cospas/SarSat certified marine,
air and land Search & Rescue devices and
state-of-the-art law enforcement tracking,
monitoring and surveillance equipment.
Division Head
Richard Tyson
Principal locations
UK, USA
Division Head
Pat Matthews
Principal locations
UK, USA, RSA, Finland
Division Head
Charlie Stuff
Principal locations
UK, USA, France,
Canada, Denmark
Revenue
£130m
Cobham Air Refuelling and Auxiliary
Mission Equipment provides its world-
leading fourth generation solutions for
fixed and rotary wing tanker and receiver
aircraft around the world including the UK,
US, Germany,Australia, Malaysia, Japan
and India.The division also designs and
manufactures a range of missile launchers
and bomb ejection units, and is the design
authority for the Eurofighter Typhoon
Chaff and Flare Systems. In the USA,
Cobham Air Refuelling and Auxiliary
Mission Equipment provides Boeing with
the BRU-61/A pneumatic weapons
carriage release system assembly for the
Small Diameter Bomb.
Number of employees
750
Revenue
£145m
Number of employees
1,300
Revenue
£195m
Number of employees
2,000
Revenue numbers represent an estimate of a steady state outcome for each operating division. Employee numbers exclude discontinued businesses. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 21
Cobham Defence Electronic Systems Cobham Life Support Cobham Flight Operations and Services*
Cobham Defence Electronic Systems
designs and manufactures microwave
components, integrated assemblies and
sub-systems for the US Department of
Defense and other military and government
customers around the world. It is a leading
developer of all classes of air, ground and
shipboard antenna sub-systems, positioners,
radomes, high-power microwave
components and integrated assemblies
and is the market leader for many niche
microwave products. Cobham Defence
Electronic Systems is also the world leader
in advanced tactical military vehicle
intercom systems and soldier and ground
vehicle situation awareness products.
One of the world’s leading producers 
of aviation oxygen to the military and 
civil markets, Cobham Life Support uses
the latest technology to take oxygen from
the atmosphere and regulate the flow to
allow pilots and passengers to breathe at
altitude. In addition, pneumatic technology
is provided for fin actuation in missiles,
and cryostatic cooling products supplied 
for various land and aviation markets.
In the personal survival market, Cobham
Life Support provides specialist products 
for naval and land applications, including
aircrew restraints, parachute release
mechanisms and flotation gear.
Cobham Flight Operations and Services
operate more than 150 fixed and rotary
wing aircraft around the world, from Bell
212 helicopters to Boeing 727 freighters.
National Air Support operates the largest
civil maritime surveillance contract in 
the world, covering more than 37,000km
of Australian coastline. National Jet
Systems is the only provider of outsourced
flight operations for Qantas, providing
ten aircraft with pilots, flight attendants
and engineering services. FB Heliservices
trains all UK helicopter pilots for the 
Navy,Air Force and Army, with more than
200 students graduating a year.
Division Head
Dave Gaggin
Principal locations
UK, USA, Sweden
Division Head
Kelly Coffield
Principal locations
UK, USA, Germany
Division Head
Steve Fitz-Gerald
Principal locations
UK, France, Malaysia
Australia
Revenue
£160m
Number of employees
1,850
Revenue
£130m
Number of employees
1,000
Revenue
£185m
Number of employees
1,750
*The Cobham Services Division comprises Cobham Flight Operations and Services, and the FSTA project. 22 Cobham plc
G F Page CBE, MA, FRAeS
Non-executive Chairman
Appointed to the Board in 1990, Gordon Page,
age 62, joined the Group as managing director 
of Flight Refuelling Limited having previously
been commercial director – military engines of
Rolls-Royce plc. He was appointed deputy chief
executive in 1991, chief executive in 1992 and
chairman in November 2001. He is chairman of
the Department of Trade and Industry’s Industrial
Development Advisory Board and non-executive
chairman of Hamworthy plc, FKI plc and Air T anker
Holdings Limited. He is president-elect of the
Royal Aeronautical Society and is a past-president
of The Society of British Aerospace Companies
Ltd and of the Chartered Management Institute.
He is chairman of the nomination committee.
A E Cook BSc, CEng, FRAeS
Chief Executive
Appointed to the Board in 2001,Allan Cook, age
56, joined the Group from BAE Systems where he
was group managing director of programmes and
managing director Eurofighter. He was formerly
group managing director of GEC-Marconi Avionics
and chief executive of Hughes Aircraft (Europe).
He is also a vice-president and president-elect of
the Society of British Aerospace Companies Ltd.
W G Tucker BSc,ACA, MBA 
Group Financial Director
Appointed to the Board in 2003,Warren Tucker,
age 43, joined the Group as Group Financial
Director. Prior to joining he qualified as a chartered
accountant, worked at Lazard, held senior finance
positions at British Airways and was deputy group
financial director of Cable and Wireless plc.
P Hooley FCA, MSc 
Independent non-executive director
Appointed to the Board as a non-executive
director in 2002 and first elected by shareholders
in 2003, Peter Hooley, age 59, is group finance
director of Smith & Nephew plc, a position he 
has held since 1991. He was a non-executive
director of Powell Duffryn plc from 1997 to 2000.
He is chairman of the audit committee.
A J Hannam OBE 
Group Managing Director, Cobham Services 
Appointed to the Board in 2002,Alex Hannam,
age 60, joined the Group as managing director 
of FR Aviation Group Limited in that year. Prior 
to joining, he was managing director of Alenia
Marconi’s radar systems division, a position he had
held since 1995. He is responsible to the Board for
the performance of Cobham Services Division.
Directors
1G F Page
2 A E Cook
3W G Tucker
4 P Hooley
5 A J Hannam
6 J S Patterson
7 A J Stevens
8 M Beresford
9 J W Edington
Company Secretary
10 J M Pope
11 Sir Michael Cobham
Board of Directors
12
4
3
5 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 23
J S Patterson MBChB, FRCP, Fmed Sci 
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board as a non-executive
director in 2005, John Patterson, age 58, qualified
in medicine in 1971 and obtained a Membership
(now Fellowship) of the Royal College of Physicians
in 1974. He joined ICI (now AstraZeneca) in 1975
and in December 2004 John was appointed to the
main Board as executive director responsible for
development. He is a director of the British Pharma
Group and is a former President of the Association
of the British Pharmaceutical Industry, a former
non-executive director of Amersham PLC and 
a former member of the supervisory board of the
UK Medicines Control Agency. He is chairman of
the remuneration committee.
A J Stevens BSc, CEng, FIEE, FRAeS 
Chief Operating Officer
Appointed to the Board in 2003,Andy Stevens,
age 49, joined the Group as managing director 
of the Aerospace Systems Group. Prior to joining
he qualified as a chartered engineer at Dowty
Group and subsequently became chief operating
officer of Messier Dowty International before
joining Rolls-Royce as managing director, defence
aerospace. He was appointed Chief Operating
Officer in September 2005.
M Beresford CBE, MAMechSc, FIEE 
Independent non-executive director
Appointed to the Board as a non-executive
director and first elected by shareholders in 2004,
Marcus Beresford, age 63, is chairman of Ricardo
plc and a non-executive director of Spirent PLC.
He was an executive director of GKN plc from
1992-2002 and chief executive from 2001-2002.
He is the senior independent director.
J W Edington PhD, DSc, FIM, FREng
Independent non-executive director
Appointed to the Board as a non-executive director
in 1996 and first elected by shareholders in 1997,
Jeff Edington, age 66, was, until his retirement,
executive director, technology with Corus Group
plc (formerly British Steel plc) where he had
responsibility for product and process technology,
the environment and information technology.
Prior to joining British Steel in 1992, he was vice-
president, research and technology at Alcan
Aluminium Limited based in Montreal.
J M Pope LLB, FCIS
Company Secretary
John Pope, age 52, joined the Group in 1986 and
has been company secretary since 1988. He is 
a solicitor and a chartered secretary.
Sir Michael Cobham CBE, MA, Barrister, FRAeS
Sir Michael Cobham, Life President of Cobham plc,
passed away on 13 April 2006, aged 79, following
a long illness. Sir Michael was Chief Executive of
the organisation from 1969-1992, and Chairman
from 1969-1995.
10
67 8
9 11 24 Cobham plc
Directors’ Report
The directors submit their report and the audited Group and Parent Company
Financial Statements of Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Principal activities and business review
Cobham’s principal activities are:
• the design, development and support of air refuelling equipment, auxiliary
mission equipment, life support and oxygen systems, and countermeasures
for the aerospace and defence markets;
• the design and supply of antennas, aircraft communication and navigation
equipment, microwave sub-systems, radomes and composite structures
for the aerospace, defence, law enforcement and national security, search
and rescue and communication markets;
• the operation, modification and maintenance of aircraft in the aerospace
and defence markets for military training, outsourced special mission flight
operations, freight and passenger services and also the maintenance of
large military aircraft.
Cobham’s activities in relation to the design, development and support of
fluid and air distribution components and systems ceased with the disposal
of its Fluid and Air Division in November 2005. The sale of Cobham’s
countermeasures businesses has now taken place.
A review of the business, together with an indication of likely future
developments, is included in the Chairman’s Statement on page 2,
the Chief Executive’s Review on page 3, the Business Review on 
pages 4 to 9 and the Financial Review on pages 10 to 13 .
Dividends
An interim dividend of 1.01p per ordinary share (2004: 0.92p) was paid in
December 2005.The directors are recommending a final dividend of 2.40p
per ordinary share (2004: 2.18p) payable on 7 July 2006 to ordinary
shareholders on the register as at 2 June 2006, making a total ordinary
dividend for the year of 3.41p (2004: 3.1p).
Board of directors
The current directors are listed, together with short biographical notes, on
pages 22 and 23.They held office throughout the year with the exception 
of John Patterson who was appointed on 1 November 2005. In addition,
Mike Smith and Geoff Cooper were directors until 8 and 20 June 2005
respectively.
Jeff Edington, Peter Hooley and John Patterson will retire from office at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) and, being eligible, will offer
themselves for re-appointment. None of these directors has a service
contract with the company.
Directors’ interests
None of the directors is or was materially interested in any significant contract
during or at the end of the financial year particulars of which are required to
be disclosed by the Companies Act 1985 or the Financial Services Authority’s
Listing Rules.
Details of directors’ share interests and of their rights to subscribe for shares
are shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 34.
Corporate governance
The company’s statement on corporate governance is set out on 
pages 26 to 28.
Share capital
Details of movements in the share capital of the company during the year are
given in note 26 of the Notes to the Group Financial Statements and note 7
of the Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements respectively.
At the AGM held on 8 June 2005 the company was authorised to purchase up
to 111,867,810 ordinary shares.This authority will expire at the 2006 AGM.
Although no ordinary shares have been purchased by the company during
the period from 8 June 2005 to the date of this report, a special resolution will
be put to shareholders at the AGM to renew the authority to make market
purchases of the company’s shares up to a maximum of 10% of the share
capital of the company.
On 8 July 2005 and pursuant to the resolution passed at the 2005 AGM, each
25p ordinary share was sub-divided and replaced with ten new ordinary
shares of 2.5p each.
Research and development
The Group continues to invest in the important area of research and
development. During the year the Group expended £47.9m (2004: £48.7m) 
on non customer funded research and development.The management of
each Group business is responsible for identifying and carrying out research
and development programmes which are suitable having regard to particular
market and product needs.
Further information on research and development appears on page 19.
Major interests in shares
Major interests in the issued ordinary share capital of the company appearing
in the register maintained in accordance with Section 211 of the Companies
Act 1985 as at 7 April 2006 were as follows:
Percentage at Date
Number of shares of Notification
Legal & General Group plc 73,891,634 6.57
AEGON UK plc 53,990,612 4.80
Lloyds TSB Group plc 53,419,361 4.75
AVIVA plc 53,105,089 4.72
Sir Michael Cobham 49,831,000 4.43
HBOS plc 39,174,729 3.49
Barclays PLC 35,223,469 3.13
Other than the above interests the directors are not aware of any notifiable
interest in the issued ordinary share capital of the company of 3% or more.
Financial instruments
Notes 23 and 25 of the Notes to the Group Financial Statements and
note 10 of the Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements contain
disclosures relating to the use of financial instruments.
People
In 2005, Cobham employed an average of 10,715 people on five continents
with major population centres in the UK, Continental Europe, the USA and
Australia.The strategic review announced in September 2005 determined
that the business portfolio should be focused on leading technology
positions where Cobham could exploit and enhance its market leadership
and build on the skills and entrepreneurial talent of its people. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 25
Directors’ Report continued
In support of the new focus, the Group is committed to building its
capabilities across all functions with a step change in collaboration to better
utilise resources and increase opportunities for personal and professional
development.To this end, Cobham appointed its first Group Director of
Human Resources in November 2005, reporting directly to the Chief
Executive.The position is responsible for the design and implementation of
an HR strategy in support of Cobham’s overall business goals and objectives.
Cobham is committed to equal opportunities for all of its employees.
The Group aims to ensure that the workplace is free from discrimination;
recruitment, selection and career development are based on competence 
and job requirements, irrespective of race, sex, sexual preference, religion, or
disability. Cobham recognises that there is work to be done to fully achieve its
objectives in this area, but has already achieved some significant successes
including: provision of ‘job share’ and part-time working opportunities;
running internal seminars to increase management awareness of equality
issues and attending disability job fairs.With regard to employees who
become disabled, the policy is to take all reasonable steps, including retraining,
to ensure that they can remain in employment wherever practicable.
The importance of employee development and training is recognised and
Group businesses are required to encourage employees to take advantage 
of available and relevant training programmes and opportunities for
advancement.
The Group encourages employee participation and consultation at all levels
and also the sharing of relevant business information. Such an approach
facilitates the development of new ideas and practices that add value to the
business, promotes team member commitment and helps to focus company
and employee expectations. In-house newsletters, intranet, extranet and
internet communications, company announcements, team meetings and
suggestion schemes all play a part in this process.
UK employees are given the opportunity to become shareholders in the
company through the Cobham Savings Related Share Option Scheme and
the Cobham Share Incentive Plan. Under the former, employees can acquire
shares through the exercise of options granted at a 20% discount to market
value with savings made over three, five or seven years. Under the latter,
shares may be purchased out of pre-tax income.
Corporate responsibility
Information in relation to the Group’s commitment to corporate
responsibility (including additional information in relation to employment
matters) is set out on pages 14 to 17.
Creditors payment policy
Payment is generally made by Group companies to their creditors in
accordance with agreed terms of business provided that those terms have
been met. It is the policy of the parent company that all invoices are paid
within 30 days following the end of the month in which the invoices are
approved.The total amount of the parent company’s trade creditors falling
due within one year at 31 December 2005 represents 45 days’ (2004: 36
days) worth as a proportion of the total amount invoiced by suppliers during
the year ended on that date.
Post balance sheet events
Note 38 of the Notes to the Group Financial Statements concerning 
post balance sheet events contains information relating to acquisitions 
and a disposal.
Political and charitable gifts
No contributions were made to political organisations.The amount donated
during the year for charitable purposes was £51,469 (2004: £37,320).
Of this sum, donations in excess of £200 were made to the value of £14,400
to disaster relief appeals, £9,000 to business enterprise charities, £6,000 to
rescue and armed services' charities and £3,000 to health charities.
Annual General Meeting
The company’s AGM will be held at 12 noon on Wednesday, 7 June 2006 at
Painters’ Hall, 9 Little Trinity Lane, London EC4V 2AD.A circular containing
the notice convening this meeting, together with an explanation of the
business to be conducted, is enclosed with this Annual Report.
By order of the Board
John Pope 
Company Secretary
7 April 2006 26 Cobham plc
Corporate Governance
This part of the Annual Report, together with the Directors’ Remuneration
Report set out on pages 29 to 34, describes how the company has both
applied the principles contained in the revised Combined Code on Corporate
Governance published in July 2003 (the Code) and complied with the
provisions contained in section 1 of the Code.
Board composition
The Board comprises a non-executive chairman (Gordon Page), a chief
executive (Allan Cook), three other executive directors and four other non-
executive directors of whom Marcus Beresford is the senior independent
director. Mike Smith, a former senior independent director and remuneration
committee chairman, and Geoff Cooper, a former executive director, were
members of the board until 8 and 20 June 2005 respectively.
All non-executive directors, with the exception of the chairman, are considered
to be independent. Biographies of the directors, giving details of their
experience and other main commitments, are set out on pages 22 and 23
and, in relation to those directors offering themselves for re-appointment 
at the AGM, in the accompanying shareholder circular.The wide ranging
experience and backgrounds of the non-executive directors enable them to
debate and constructively challenge management in relation to both the
development of strategy and the performance of the Group.Attendance at
Board and committee meetings is set out in the following table.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Number held 11 5 5 3
Number attended
G F Page 10 – – 3
A E Cook 11 – – 3
A J Hannam 10 – – –
W G Tucker 11 – – –
A J Stevens 11 – – –
J W Edington 11 4 4 3
P Hooley 8541
M Beresford 10 4 5 3
J S Patterson
(1)
111 –
(1)
John Patterson joined the Board with effect from 1 November 2005 and attended all subsequent meetings.
All directors attended the AGM in June 2005 with the exception of Gordon Page who could not attend
the meeting because of a family bereavement. On those occasions when a director was unable to attend
a Board or committee meeting, his comments on the papers to be considered at that meeting were passed 
to the relevant chairman.
Non-executive directors are appointed for specified terms of three years
which can be extended by agreement provided that the individual’s
performance continues to be effective.All non-executives have confirmed
they will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them and copies
of their appointment letters are available on request to the company
secretary. Under the company’s articles of association, directors are subject
to re-appointment by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment
by the Board; if they have held office for three years or more since their
previous appointment by shareholders; and, in the case of non-executive
directors, if they have held office for nine years or more since first being
appointed by shareholders.The nomination committee report on page 27
explains the process for selection of directors and succession planning.
The chairman is, among other things, responsible for chairing board meetings
and leading the Board.The chief executive’s responsibilities include
operational performance and the development of strategy.The Board’s policy
is that the roles of chairman and chief executive should be performed by
different people.The division of responsibilities between the chairman’s role
and that of the chief executive is documented and clearly understood and no
conflicts arise, in the directors’ view, from the fact that the chairman held,
until 2001, the position of chief executive.The senior independent director’s
responsibilities include the provision of an additional channel of
communication between the chairman and the non-executive directors and
another point of contact for shareholders if they have reasons for concern
which communications through the normal channels of chairman, chief
executive or group financial director have failed to resolve, or where these
contacts are inappropriate.
The directors have the benefit of a directors’ and officers’ liability insurance
policy.They can take independent legal advice at the company’s expense
within set limits in furtherance of their duties.
The Board and its proceedings
Board meetings scheduled in accordance with the annual timetable take
place eight times a year and otherwise as required.There is regular contact
between meetings to progress the Group’s business. Meetings were held
during the year for the most part at Wimborne, however they take place at
other operational locations from time to time. In addition, meetings take
place between the non-executives in the absence of the chairman and/or the
executive directors.
The Board’s role is to lead the Group with a view to the creation of a strong,
sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value. In 
doing so, it reviews and agrees Group strategy, ensures that the necessary
resources are in place, monitors management performance, and supervises
the conduct of the Group’s activities within a framework of prudent and
effective internal controls.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its specific
approval.The schedule provides the framework for those decisions which 
can be made by the Board and those which can be delegated either to
committees or otherwise.Among the key matters on which the Board alone
may make decisions are the Group’s business strategy, its five year plan, its
consolidated budget, Group policies, dividends, acquisitions and disposals,
and all appointments to, and removals from, the Board.Authority is delegated
to management on a structured basis in accordance with the provisions of
the Corporate Framework ensuring that proper management oversight exists
at the appropriate level. Matters delegated in this way include, within 
defined parameters, the approval of bids and contracts, capital expenditures
and financing arrangements.
The Board has adopted procedures relating to conduct of its business,
including the timely provision of information, and the company secretary is
responsible for ensuring that these are observed and for advising the Board
on corporate governance matters.The company secretary is appointed, and
can only be removed, by the Board.
Board committees
The Board is supported in its work by a number of committees. Information
relating to the nomination and audit committees appears below and the
activities of the remuneration committee are described in the Directors’
Remuneration Report on page 29. John Pope, company secretary, acts as
secretary to all Board committees. Committee chairmen provide oral reports
on the work undertaken by their committees at the following Board meeting
and minutes are made available to all directors.
Other Board committees include the executive committee, the general
purposes committee and the price sensitive information (‘PSI’) committee.
The terms of reference of the executive committee were reviewed during the
year and its purpose is to assist the chief executive in the performance of his Annual Report & Accounts 2005 27
duties.These include developing the Group’s strategy for Board consideration
and approval, making recommendations as to acquisitions and disposals,
reviewing operational activities and managing the significant risks faced by
the Group.This committee meets on eight occasions during the year and its
membership comprises the executive directors under the chairmanship of
the chief executive.
The duties of the general purposes committee are varied and include the
discharge of obligations arising under the company’s share plans, the
determination of the remuneration of the non-executive directors, and the
approval of banking facilities.The PSI committee’s main function is to
establish and implement internal policies, systems and controls to ensure
that potential inside information is communicated to it, considered, verified
and released to the market where required.These committees, both of which
were formed during the year, meet as and when required.
Nomination committee report
Gordon Page is the chairman of this committee.The other members are 
Jeff Edington,Allan Cook, Peter Hooley, Marcus Beresford and John Patterson
(appointed 1 November 2005). Mike Smith was a member until 8 June 2005.
The majority of the members of the committee are independent. Details of
their qualifications and experience are set out on pages 22 and 23. During
the year the committee met formally on three occasions.
The committee’s terms of reference, which have recently been reviewed,
are available on the company’s website or on application to the company
secretary.The committee’s main duties are to review the structure, size and
composition of the Board, to consider succession planning for directors and
other senior executives and to identify and nominate for Board approval
candidates to fill Board vacancies.The committee dealt with all of these
matters during the year or since the year end and, in addition, made
recommendations regarding the re-appointment of certain directors at the
2005 AGM, the appointment of a new senior independent director, and was
engaged in identifying potential, new, independent non-executive directors
with the assistance of external recruitment consultants.
John Patterson was appointed a director during the year after a search
carried out by external recruitment consultants followed by meetings with
committee members and, subsequently, other Board members.
Directors’ professional development
On appointment, directors undertake a structured induction programme in
the course of which they receive information about the operations and
activities of the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its
decision, the company’s corporate governance practices and procedures and
their duties, responsibilities and obligations as directors of a listed public
limited company.This is supplemented by visits to key locations and
meetings with senior executives.
Training for directors is available as required through attendance at externally
provided courses or in-house presentations. During the year presentations for
directors were provided on price sensitive/inside information and the new
disclosure rules and also the then proposed operating and financial review.
In addition, directors’ knowledge of the legal and regulatory environment 
is updated through the provision of information by the Group’s advisers and
by means of regular briefings from the company secretary.
Performance evaluation
During the year, the Board undertook a formal and rigorous evaluation 
of its own performance and that of individual directors and of the audit,
remuneration and nomination committees using specialist evaluation
software.The directors completed detailed appraisals on matters relevant 
to the Board, committee and director performance.The chairman discussed
the results with individual directors, and the senior independent director
discussed the performance evaluation of the chairman with him. In addition,
a report of the overall results was presented to, and discussed by, the Board.
As a result various action plans are being developed.
Financial reporting
In the directors’ view, the Annual Report and Accounts for 2005, together
with the Interim and other reports made during the year, present a balanced
and understandable assessment of the company’s position and prospects.
The directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the 
Annual Report and Accounts as stated in the Financial Review on page 13.
Internal control and risk management
The Group operates under a system of internal controls which has been
developed and refined over time to meet its needs and the risks and
opportunities to which it is exposed.These controls are contained in the
Corporate Framework and the Group Finance Manual.They include a
comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget which is approved
by the Board and monitored monthly, the regular revision of forecasts for the
year, a strategic planning process involving the preparation of a five year plan
and the appropriate delegation of authorities to operational management.
Risk management is an integral part of the system of internal control and 
is considered to be key to the Group’s success. Divisional managing directors
are required to ensure that appropriate processes exist to identify and
manage risks and, as part of the five year planning exercise, to regularly 
carry out formal risk assessments.The executive committee undertakes 
a top-level review of significant risks and reports regularly to the Board on
their mitigation. In addition, the audit committee monitors the adequacy 
of internal financial controls and compliance with Group standards through 
a self-assessment process involving all subsidiaries, supplemented by regular
risk assurance reviews and visits.
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control the aim of
which is to manage risks that are significant to the fulfilment of the Group’s
business objectives and to contribute to the safeguarding of shareholders’
investment and the company’s assets. It is also responsible for reviewing the
effectiveness of the system. However, such a system is designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying,
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.This
process, which has been in place for the year under review and up to the 
date of approval of the Annual Report and financial statements, is regularly
reviewed and accords with the guidance for directors on internal control
issued by the Turnbull committee.
The Board receives reports on a regular basis from the executive and audit
committees in relation to the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal
control and has, accordingly, reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s
system of internal control in respect of 2005. Corporate Governance continued
Audit committee report
The chairman of the committee is Peter Hooley. He is an independent
director and the Board is satisfied, since he is also a finance director of 
a FTSE 100 company and a chartered accountant, that he has ‘relevant 
and recent financial experience’ as required by the Code.
The other members of the committee, all of whom are independent
directors, are Jeff Edington, Marcus Beresford and John Patterson (appointed
1 November 2005). Mike Smith was a member until 8 June 2005. Details 
of their qualifications and experience are set out on pages 22 and 23. During
the year the committee met on five occasions.
The committee’s terms of reference, which were reviewed during the year,
are available on the company’s website or on application to the company
secretary.The committee’s main duties are to monitor the integrity of the
company’s financial statements and any formal announcements relating 
to its financial performance, to consider the effectiveness of the Group’s
internal financial control systems, to monitor and review the effectiveness of
the Group’s internal audit activities, to make recommendations as to the
appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement of the external
auditors and to monitor and review the external auditors’ independence 
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Meetings of the committee are normally attended by the company
chairman, the group financial director, senior employees with responsibilities
in relation to finance and internal control, and the external auditors.
In addition, the committee holds sessions with the external auditors in 
the absence of executive management.Attendance of non-members is 
at the discretion, and by invitation, of the committee.
At the majority of its meetings the committee considered reports from 
the external auditors and also on internal controls and risk assurance.
Management generated reports were also considered on a number of
matters including the application of, and transition to, International Financial
Reporting Standards, revenue recognition, the pension fund deficit and
corporate governance issues.
The committee believes that the current arrangements comprising a
programme of internal financial control review visits to subsidiaries by head
office personnel, business reviews carried out by the chief executive and
group financial director and a process of self-assessment of internal financial
controls by all subsidiaries provides appropriate internal audit coverage of 
the Group’s activities.
The committee and the external auditors have safeguards to avoid the
possible compromise of the auditors’ objectivity and independence.
These include the adoption by the committee of a policy regarding the
supply of audit and non-audit services and of a policy on the employment 
of external audit staff. Non-audit services involving the review of interim
financial information, tax services and accounting advice, and 
acquisition-related due diligence can be supplied subject to pre-approval 
by the committee where the cost of any individual engagement exceeds 
a pre-defined limit.The committee has also received reports from the
external auditors confirming their independence and objectivity.
Fees paid to the external auditors during the year ended 31 December 2005
are set out in note 2 of the Notes to the Group Financial Statements.
Shareholder relations
During the year the chief executive and group financial director held regular
meetings with institutional investors, fund managers and investors to discuss
information made public by the Group. In June they, along with divisional
managing directors, held an investor day at which presentations were given
on, among other things, air refuelling, the REMEC Defense & Space Inc.
acquisition, the provision of air warfare training, and financial performance.
In October a briefing was given to investors in relation to the new divisional
structure in general and the Cobham Life Support Division in particular.
Presentations were also given during the year on the announcement of the
preliminary and interim results. Copies of presentation materials can be
accessed via the company’s website at www.Cobham.com.
The chairman wrote to a number of major shareholders during the year
reminding them of his availability, and that of Marcus Beresford, the senior
independent director, should there be issues which they might wish to raise.
The chairman attended various meetings with shareholders to discuss
governance and strategy but, in the absence of any request, no meetings
have taken place with Marcus Beresford. Shareholders were also offered the
opportunity to meet John Patterson, the non-executive director appointed
during the year.
The Board is kept informed of investors’ views through the distribution of
analysts’ circulars, the receipt of regular reports from the company’s brokers
and updates from the chief executive and group financial director.
Correspondence with shareholders is also made available and a survey 
of shareholder opinion was commissioned.
Communication with shareholders takes place via RNS announcements, the
company’s website, the annual and interim reports and the AGM.The AGM 
is attended by all directors and shareholders have the opportunity to hear 
a statement as to progress made during the year, to question the Board on
its stewardship of the company and to meet directors informally.The results
of the votes on the resolutions proposed at the AGM are published on the
company’s website.
Responsibility statements
Statements relating to the responsibilities of the directors are on page 35 
and those relating to the auditors are on pages 36 and 81.
Compliance statement
Independent non-executives, excluding the chairman, made up less than half
of the Board from the retirement of Mike Smith on 8 June 2005 until the
appointment of John Patterson on 1 November 2005.Accordingly, the Board
did not during that period fully comply with the provisions of the Code in
2005.The Board is currently seeking to appoint an additional independent
non-executive director.
28 Cobham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 29
Directors’ Remuneration Report
This report provides the information required by the Directors’ Remuneration
Report Regulations 2002 (the Regulations). It also describes how the
company applies the principles of the Code in relation to remuneration.
The report has been approved by the Board and shareholder approval will be
sought at the forthcoming AGM.
The Remuneration committee
John Patterson (appointed 1 November 2005) is the chairman of this
committee.The other committee members are Jeff Edington, Peter Hooley
and Marcus Beresford. Mike Smith was a member and chairman of the
committee until 8 June 2005.All members are independent non-executives
as was Mike Smith. Details of their qualifications and experience are set out
on pages 22 and 23.The committee met on five occasions during 2005 and
information on director attendance is set out in the table on page 26.
The committee’s terms of reference, which were reviewed during the year,
are available on the company’s website or on application to the company
secretary.The committee’s main duties are to make recommendations to 
the board on the Group’s policies on executive directors’ remuneration and
to determine, on the Board’s behalf, the specific remuneration packages 
of the chairman, executive directors and a number of senior executives.
The committee consults with the chief executive, but not in respect of his
own remuneration, and has access to professional advice from New Bridge
Street Consultants LLP (NBSC) and reports in relation to total shareholder
return monitoring from Inbucon. Inbucon also provided advice during the
year to the committee in relation to possible changes to the Cobham 
Long-Term Incentive Plan’s comparator group and NBSC provided advice 
to the company in connection with the Group’s employee share schemes.
Martin Burgess was appointed during the year to the newly-created post of
Group Director of Human Resources.Among other things, Martin’s role will
include assisting the committee in the discharge of its duties.
Remuneration policy
The Board’s policy is to recruit, motivate and retain executive directors of
high calibre by rewarding them with competitive salary and benefit packages,
increasingly linked to performance. In particular, the executive pay policy for
the current and subsequent financial years is designed to retain those
executives with the skills and experience necessary to enable the Group to
achieve its objectives and satisfy shareholder expectations. More specifically,
the current strategy is to position base salaries around the median of the
market and to provide an opportunity to enhance cash remuneration
through a competitive bonus plan, if performance so warrants, through the
satisfaction of stretching performance conditions.The committee confirms
that a significant element of potential remuneration is performance linked.
Remuneration is also linked to performance through participation in share
incentive schemes, which ensures that directors’ interests are closely aligned
with shareholders’ interests.The chairman of the company ensures that the
company, through the committee, maintains contact with its principal
shareholders about remuneration matters.
Base salary
The committee reviews base salaries annually, generally in December,
to take effect from 1 January of the following year.When reviewing salaries
the committee assesses individual responsibilities, experience, performance
and personal objectives and considers external market data, internal
relativities and other factors relevant to the company and the industry.
Annual performance-related bonus
The company operates an annual cash bonus scheme for its executive
directors. Bonuses were awarded by the committee in respect of 2005 having
regard to the performance of the Group, the individual and, in the case of
directors with specific subsidiary company responsibilities, the performance
of the relevant subsidiaries.The maximum annual bonus opportunity for
executive directors was 80% of base salary. Of this, 81% was determined by
financial performance.
In the cases of Allan Cook and Warren Tucker the constituent elements of
their bonus plans related to earnings per share (EPS) growth, cash generation
against budget and proven achievement of personal objectives. In the cases
of Andy Stevens and Alex Hannam, the constituent elements of their bonus
plans related to EPS growth, profit performance against budget for the group
of subsidiary companies for which they were operationally responsible, cash
generation against budget and proven achievement of personal objectives.
Bonus awards for 2005 were in the range of 40% to 83% of base salary
reflecting, for the most part, the achievement of stretch targets in respect of
EPS growth, cash generation and personal objectives. In the case of Warren
Tucker’s bonus plan, the personal objectives element was increased for 2005
only with the result that the maximum bonus opportunity became 85%.
This small increase reflected the work carried out by him in bringing to a
successful conclusion the sale of the Group’s Fluid and Air distribution business.
In respect of 2006, and as a result of the recent reorganisation, bonus plans
for Alex Hannam and Andy Stevens will no longer contain an element in
respect of profit performance of subsidiaries against budget.These plans will,
therefore, be the same as those for Allan Cook and Warren Tucker except that
the maximum annual bonus opportunity for Alex Hannam for 2006 has been
increased to 120% of base salary following his agreement to continue in
office for a year beyond his normal retirement date and in recognition of the
fact that he is not eligible to receive further LTIP or executive option awards.
Personal objectives for Allan Cook are set by Gordon Page. Personal
objectives for the other executive directors are set by Allan Cook.
Long-term incentives
The committee’s policy with regard to long-term incentives is that a
combination of conditional share awards under the Cobham Long-Term
Incentive Plan (LTIP) and grants of share options under the Cobham
Executive Share Option Scheme (2004) (ESOS) may be made to directors
and other senior executives. In order to ensure that the aggregate award
levels are not excessive, the aggregate value of shares awarded to any
individual (excluding senior executives in the US) under the above share
schemes in any year is not to exceed 1.5 times base salary unless there are
exceptional circumstances, for example, the recruitment or promotion of a
senior executive.The committee is of the opinion that the company’s 
policy in respect of long-term incentives remains appropriate. However,
a full review will be carried out during 2006.
Cobham long-term incentive plan
Under the LTIP, which was approved by shareholders in 1997, awards to
acquire Cobham ordinary shares at nil cost are made to participants up to a
maximum annual value of 75% of base salary. During 2005, awards were
made to 23 main Board and subsidiary company directors and senior
executives.The extent to which awards vest under the LTIP is based on the
company’s total shareholder return (TSR) relative to a comparator group
comprising companies in the FTSE engineering and machinery sector and the
aerospace and defence sector.The committee believes that the use of TSR as a performance measure is justified because it aligns the interests of directors
with shareholders by requiring superior TSR performance compared to those
companies in the comparator group (see below).Awards vest in full at upper
quartile performance over the three year performance period and 30% of
awards vest at median performance.There is a sliding scale vesting between
median and upper quartile performance and no awards vest if performance is
below median. In addition, no awards vest unless the company’s underlying
EPS growth has exceeded inflation by an average of 3% p.a. over three years.
That part of an award which has not satisfied the performance conditions
over the three year performance period will lapse i.e. there is no re-testing of
the performance condition.
The committee will ensure that EPS is calculated for the LTIP and the executive
share option schemes on as consistent a basis as is feasible following the
transition to International Financial Reporting Standards and that any
arbitrary results are avoided.
In assessing whether performance conditions have been met, the committee
relies upon performance status and verification reports prepared by Inbucon.
In respect of the awards made in 2002 and expiring in 2005, the company
achieved nineteenth position out of a total of 32 companies in its
comparator group with the result that none vested. In respect of the 2003
awards, which will expire in 2006, the TSR achieved by the company
positioned it at twentieth out of a total of 30 companies in its group.As a
result, none of these awards will, in the absence of special circumstances,
vest.The companies which comprise the comparator group for the LTIP
award made to directors in 2005 are as follows:
BAE SYSTEMS PLC; Chemring Group PLC; Meggitt PLC; Rolls-Royce plc;
Smiths Group plc; Ultra Electronics Holdings plc; UMECO plc;VT Group plc.;
AGA Foodservice Group plc; Bodycote International plc; Castings PLC;
Charter plc; Cookson Group plc; Enodis plc; Fenner PLC; FKI plc; Halma p.l.c;
Hill & Smith Holdings PLC; IMI plc; Metalrax Group PLC; Rotork p.l.c.; Senior
plc; Severfield-Rowen Plc; Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc;The Morgan Crucible
Company plc;The Vitec Group plc;The Weir Group PLC and Tomkins plc.
Following the recent replacement of the FTSE classification system with the
Industry Classification Benchmark System, the committee has decided, pending
the review referred to above, that the comparator group for LTIP awards to
be made in 2006 will comprise the companies in the FTSE engineering and
machinery and the aerospace and defence sectors as at the end of 2005.
Cobham executive share option scheme (2004) (ESOS)
The ESOS was approved by shareholders at the 2004 AGM and includes an
‘Approved’ part, which has been approved by the Inland Revenue, and an
‘Unapproved’ part which is not designed for Inland Revenue approval. Options
to acquire Cobham ordinary shares may be made to participants up to a
maximum annual value of 100% of base salary. Options are granted at a
price not less than the market value of the company’s ordinary shares on,
or shortly before, the date an option is granted. During 2005, options were
granted to 116 directors and senior executives.The exercise of options will be
conditional upon the company’s underlying EPS growth exceeding inflation
by a specified margin over a three year period. No part of an option will
become exercisable unless the company’s EPS growth over the period exceeds
inflation by at least 3% per annum on average. If average growth in EPS in
excess of inflation over three years is between 3% and 5% per annum,
calculated on a compound basis, shares under option with a value between
50%-100% of the participant’s base salary will become exercisable. If average
EPS growth in excess of inflation exceeds 5% per annum, the option will
become exercisable in full.There will be no provision for re-testing of the
performance condition if it is not met after three years. EPS growth is
considered by the committee to be an appropriate measure of the company’s
performance for the purposes of the ESOS as it is based upon underlying
financial performance and complements the share price growth needed for
the ESOS to deliver value.
Other share schemes and headroom
The Cobham Savings Related Share Option Scheme (2004), which was
approved by shareholders at the 2004 AGM, was operated during the year.
Executive directors are permitted to participate in this scheme on the same
terms as other UK employees.The scheme operates within specific tax
legislation (including a requirement to finance the exercise of the option
using the proceeds of a monthly savings contract).
The company also operated a new Inland Revenue approved all-employee
share scheme, the Cobham Share Incentive Plan, for the first time. Executive
directors are permitted to participate in this scheme, which has been
approved by shareholders, on the same terms as other UK employees.
This scheme operates within specific tax legislation and enables participants
to buy Cobham ordinary shares out of pre-tax income.
Consistent with the legislation and normal practice, neither of these schemes
requires the imposition of pre-vesting performance conditions.
There is a limit of 10% of issued share capital on the issue of shares in any
ten year period in connection with the company’s employee share schemes.
Of this, 5% may be used in connection with the company’s discretionary share
schemes (i.e. the LTIP and the executive share option schemes).As at the date
of this report 69.5m (6.2%) and 34.6m (3.1%) shares have been, or may be,
issued pursuant to awards made in the previous ten years in connection with
all the share schemes and the discretionary schemes respectively.
Performance graph
This graph illustrates the performance of the company against a ‘broad equity
market index’ over the past five years.As the company has been a constituent
of the FTSE 350 Index throughout this period, that Index is considered 
the most appropriate form of broad equity market index against which
performance should be graphed. Performance is measured by reference to
TSR (share price growth plus dividends paid).
Directors’ pensions
Executive directors participate in the Cobham Executives’ Pension Plan 
(the Plan).The Plan provides benefits on final pay principles against a normal
pension age of 60 subject to actuarial reduction for earlier retirement. Pension
accrues at 1/30th of pensionable earnings, i.e. base salary, for each year of
service and participants contribute at the rate of 7% of pensionable earnings.
All pensions in payment relating to post April 1997 rights are increased in
line with the retail prices index, subject to a minimum of 3% per annum and
a maximum of 5% per annum, with the balance of pension being increased
at 3% per annum. On death in service, a lump sum of four times pensionable
30 Cobham plc
31 Dec 00
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05
Cobham FTSE 350 Index
Value (£)
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
This graph looks at the value, by the end of 2005, of £100 invested in Cobham on 31 December 2000 compared
with that of £100 in FTSE 350 index.The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Over the period the Cobham investment increased by 80% and the index investment increased by 11%. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 31
earnings is payable together with a spouse’s pension of two thirds of the
member’s prospective pension. On death after retirement, a spouse’s pension
is paid at the rate of two thirds of the member’s pre-commutation pension.
Similar spouse’s pensions are payable on the death of a deferred pensioner
prior to retirement.
The pension benefits of directors who are members of the Plan are restricted
by the Inland Revenue’s earnings cap. Contributions in respect of such
members, with the exception of Warren Tucker, are paid into funded
unapproved retirement benefit schemes (FURBS) and details of the amounts
paid are set out in table 2(B) on page 33. Cash payments in lieu of contributions
to a FURBS are made to Warren Tucker as mentioned in the notes to table 1
on page 32. Following Gordon Page’s retirement as an executive director in
2003, no further contributions have been paid into his FURBS.The policy in
respect of newly appointed directors is that contributions should normally 
be 2% of annual basic salary per month.
The committee has reviewed the impact on executive directors of the
forthcoming UK tax changes to pensions.As a result, it has been decided that
a scheme specific salary cap – which will be 7.5% of the lifetime allowance
and similar to the current earnings cap – will be introduced into the Plan and
that no further contributions will be made to FURBS after 6 April 2006.After
that date, contributions currently paid to FURBS will instead be directed to
an approved defined contribution top up arrangement subject to a right to
opt out of that arrangement and to receive the employer contributions as a
non-pensionable cash allowance.
Details of directors’ pension benefits as required by the Regulations are set
out in table 2(A) on page 32.
Service contracts
The Board’s policy on setting notice periods for new directors is that these
should not normally exceed one year. It recognises, however, that it may be
necessary in the case of new executive appointments to offer a longer initial
notice period which would subsequently reduce to one year.Allan Cook’s
service contract (dated 13 June 2001) is terminable on one year’s notice by
either party.Alex Hannam’s service contract (dated 13 February 2003) is due
to expire when he reaches retirement age on 28 March 2007.Warren Tucker’s
and Andy Stevens’ service contracts (both of which are dated 1 January 2004)
are terminable on one year’s notice by, and six months’ notice to, the company.
These contracts provide for automatic termination on the director attaining
retirement age, i.e. 60. Geoff Cooper was employed under a service contract
with Chelton Limited dated 1 June 1989 terminable on one year’s notice by
either party. His resignation was tendered on 17 June 2005 and the Board
concluded that it was in the company’s interests for it to be accepted to take
effect immediately.
The company may elect to terminate directors’ service contracts by making
payments in lieu of notice. Such payments are calculated by reference to the
base salary otherwise payable during the notice period. Payments in respect
of annual bonus for the relevant periods may also be payable. In the case of
Warren Tucker, any payment in lieu of notice shall include a sum equal to the
value of his annual benefits. Geoff Cooper is currently being paid an amount
equal to his basic annual salary in monthly instalments in lieu of notice.
The company recognises and endorses the obligation of departing directors
to mitigate their own losses.
No executive director currently holds a non-executive directorship with any
other company.
Personal shareholding
Executive directors are encouraged to acquire and hold, over time, Cobham
ordinary shares to the value of at least one year’s salary.The committee
recognises, however, that shares have not been released from the LTIP in
recent years and that this has affected the ability of directors to build up
personal shareholdings.
Non-executive directors
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts. Gordon Page,
Jeff Edington, Peter Hooley, Marcus Beresford and John Patterson have been
appointed pursuant to letters dated 22 October 2003, 12 August 1996,
10 May 2002, 29 January 2004 and 2 September 2005 respectively. Subject
to appointment or re-appointment by shareholders in the interim, the
current terms will expire on 1 December 2006, 30 June 2007, 30 June 2008,
28 February 2007 and 31 October 2008 respectively. Except in Gordon
Page’s case, no compensation is payable in the event of their appointments
being terminated early. Under Gordon Page’s letter of appointment, six months’
notice of termination is required to be given by either party.As a result,
compensation might be payable for earlier termination. Each non-executive
has given an undertaking that he will have sufficient time to meet what is
expected of him as a director.
The general purposes committee, the membership of which comprises
executive directors only, is responsible for determining the remuneration 
of the non-executive directors.With effect from 1 January 2006, and in
recognition of the increasing demands being placed on them and the need
for competitive fees to be paid to attract and retain directors of the
appropriate quality, the annual fee was increased from £25,000 to £39,000.
Also, the additional fee payable to the chairmen of the audit and
remuneration committees was increased from £5,000 to £10,000 per annum.
The committee has also decided that, with effect from 1 January 2006, the
senior independent director should be paid an additional fee of £10,000 per
annum and that membership of the audit and remuneration committees
should attract a fee of £2,500 per annum per committee (which would not
be payable to the chairmen of these committees). Fees for the services of
Peter Hooley in respect of 2005 were paid to Smith & Nephew plc; with
effect from 1 January 2006, they will be paid to him personally. Gordon Page
receives an annual fee of £160,000 which is fixed until 30 November 2006.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any of the company’s share
schemes, pension schemes or bonus arrangements with the exception of
Gordon Page who had deferred benefits under the Plan. 32 Cobham plc
Auditable part
The auditable part of this directors’ remuneration report is set out below on pages 32 to 34.
T able 1:
Directors’ emoluments
The remuneration of the directors, including the chairman and the highest paid director, was as follows:-
T able 2(A):
Directors’ pensions
Transfer value 
Increase in of pension Additional 
accrued Additional accrued transfer 
pension from pension in excess Transfer Transfer value accrued 
previous year earned in of inflation value of value of in excess of 
Accrued end (with no excess of and members’ accrued accrued members’
pension at adjustment for inflation contributions pension at pension at contributions 
31/12/05 inflation) during 2005 during 2005 31/12/04 31/12/05 during 2005
£ p.a
1
£ p.a. £ p.a. ££££
G F Page 53,901 3,800 2,247 49,409 1,081,540 1,185,116 103,576
A E Cook 17,307 3,990 3,577 44,687 202,744 292,182 73,733
A J Hannam 12,027 3,810 3,555 62,107 160,601 263,221 86,915
A J Stevens 7,333 3,650 3,536 22,105 36,875 78,420 25,840
W G Tucker 9,387 3,720 3,544 21,579 43,287 76,559 25,943
1
Gordon Page reached normal retirement age in 2003 but has yet to receive any benefit from the Plan.The accrued pension shown reflects his entitlement at normal retirement age increased by an actuarial factor to allow 
for the deferment of benefits.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
The accrued pension shown is that which would be paid annually on
retirement based on service to the end of the financial year.The transfer
values represent the present value of future payments from the pension plan
rather than remuneration currently due to the individual and cannot be
meaningfully aggregated with annual remuneration. Members of the pension
plan have the option of paying additional voluntary contributions. Neither
the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above.
Under Inland Revenue regulations, members’ retirement benefits may be
reduced on account of retained benefits from previous employments.
Inflation during 2005 has been taken to be 3.1% being the statutory increase
to deferred pensions from 2004 to 2005.
Transfer values payable are calculated in accordance with Section 4 ‘Minimum
Cash Equivalent’ of Guidance Note 11 issued by the Institute and Faculty 
of Actuaries.
Salary, fees and other payments Bonus Benefits excluding pension Total excluding pension
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
G F Page
1
194 194 – – 29 29 223 223
A E Cook 440 410 343 172 26 23 809 605
G C Cooper
2
338 416 30 89 22 27 390 532
A J Hannam
3
260 243 130 114 1 1 391 358
W G Tucker
4
398 352 266 118 23 14 687 484
A J Stevens
5
351 330 128 89 24 21 503 440
J D M Smith 13 22 – – – – 13 22
J W Edington 25 20 – – – – 25 20
P Hooley 30 22 – – – – 30 22
M Beresford 25 17 – – – – 25 17
J S Patterson 5 – – – – – 5 –
Total Remuneration 2,079 2,026 897 582 125 115 3,101 2,723
Subject as follows, benefits relate to the provision of company cars and fuel, medical insurance, telephones and subscriptions.Allan Cook’s benefits include the provision of financial advice.Alex Hannam’s benefits relate to medical insurance.
Warren Tucker’s 2004 benefits did not include subscriptions.Andy Stevens’s benefits do not include telephones.
1
Emoluments include – under salary, fees and other payments – the sum of £34,000 paid as a gratuity in view of Gordon Page’s inability to draw pension benefits whilst continuing to act as a director.
2
Emoluments for 2004 include – under salary, fees and other payments – a payment of £77,000 made in lieu of additional pension provision. On 17 June 2005 Geoff Cooper gave 12 months’ notice of his intention to resign.The Board
considered that it was in the company’s interests for the resignation to be accepted with immediate effect.A compensation payment of £125,000 has been paid in lieu of notice and is included in emoluments for 2005 under salary, fees
and other payments.A further payment in respect of the balance of his entitlement amounting to £151,000 is likely to be paid during 2006.
3
Emoluments for 2004/5 include – under salary, fees and other payments – a cash allowance of £13,000 in respect of the provision of a car and fuel.This payment is not taken into account in calculating bonus and share scheme entitlements.
4
Emoluments for 2004/5 include – under salary, fees and other payments – a cash payment of £77,000 (2004: £67,000) in lieu of payments into a funded unapproved retirement benefits scheme and, in 2004, a cash allowance of £5,000 in
respect of the provision of a car and fuel.These payments are not taken into account in calculating bonus and share scheme entitlements.
5
Emoluments for 2004/5 include – under salary, fees and other payments – £30,000 in connection with the acceptance of office.This payment is not taken into account in calculating bonus and share scheme entitlements. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 33
T able 2(B):
Allan Cook,Alex Hannam and Andy Stevens are subject to the Inland
Revenue capping rules and the following company contributions, which are
taxable benefits, relate to funded unapproved retirement benefit schemes:
2005 2004
£000 £000
A E Cook 314
1
135
A J Hannam 57 53
A J Stevens 77 73
1 
This includes a one-off contribution of £165,000 in compensation for a shortfall in the value of Allan Cook’s fund
compared to the level of benefits originally targeted.
In the case of Geoff Cooper, contributions totalling £19,000 (2004: £35,000)
were made into his personal money purchase pension scheme.
T able 3(A):
Directors’ share interests
The interests of the directors and their families in Cobham plc’s ordinary
shares were:
Ordinary shares
At 1/1/05* At 31/12/05**
G F Page 1,811,210 1,811,546
A E Cook 45,770 46,880
G C Cooper 1,576,040 1,576,040
A J Hannam 29,250 41,260
W G Tucker 9,560 13,885
A J Stevens – 1,110
J D M Smith 30,000 30,000
J W Edington – –
P Hooley – –
M Beresford 15,000 15,000
J S Patterson – –
*
At date of appointment if later.
**
Or date of earlier cessation of appointment.
The above interests, which do not include interests in share options, are all
beneficial but do not include interests in shares provisionally allocated under
the Cobham Long Term Incentive Plan; these are disclosed in T able 4.
Interests at 7 April 2006, being a date not more than one month prior 
to the date of the notice convening the AGM, were the same as at
31 December 2005 save that the interests of Gordon Page had increased 
by 158 shares and interests under the Cobham Long Term Incentive Plan 
had changed as mentioned in the notes to T able 4.
Options over ordinary shares are disclosed in T able 3(B).
All shares have been adjusted for the share sub-division of July 2005. T able 3(B):
Directors’ share options
Details of directors’ interests in options over Cobham plc’s ordinary shares
granted under the Cobham Savings Related Share Option Scheme and the
Cobham Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 were:
The market price of Cobham ordinary shares as at 31 December 2005 was
169.5p per share and the closing price range during the year, adjusted for 
the share sub-division of July 2005, was 123.7p to 170.5p.
No gains were made by directors on the exercise of share options during the
year (2004: £23,000).
All options have been adjusted for the share sub-division of July 2005.
34 Cobham plc
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
All allocations have been adjusted for the share sub-division of July 2005.
Interests at 7 April 2006, being a date not more than one month prior to the
date of the notice convening the AGM, were the same as at 31 December
2005 save that the interests of Allan Cook and Alex Hannam had reduced by
351,600 and 196,010 shares respectively following the lapse of awards made
in 2003.
By order of the Board
J S Patterson 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
7 April 2006
Market
price at
Exercise date of Date from
Number of options during the year
price exercise which Expiry
At 1/1/05 Granted Exercised Lapsed At 31/12/05
**
– pence – pence exercisable date
A E Cook 16,600 – – – 16,600 84 – 1.2.09 1.8.09
3,780 – – – 3,780 93.9 – 1.2.11 1.8.11
228,230
*
––– 228,230 134.73 – 20.9.07 20.9.14
– 246,820
*
–– 246,820 133.7 – 11.5.08 11.5.15
248,610 495,430
G C Cooper 16,950 – – – 16,950 83.6 – 1.2.06 1.8.06
2,520
†
–– – 2,520 84.0 – 1.2.07 1.8.07 
590 – – – 590 76.9 – 1.2.08 1.8.08
167,000
*
––– 167,000 134.73 – 20.9.07 20.9.14
– 180,070
*
–– 180,070 133.7 – 11.5.08 11.5.15
187,060 367,130
A J Hannam 7,420 – – – 7,420 93.9 – 1.2.09 1.8.09
4,930 – – – 4,930 107.6 – 1.2.08 1.8.08
128,030
*
––– 128,030 134.73 – 20.9.07 20.9.14
– 138,000
*
–– 138,000 133.7 – 11.5.08 11.5.15
140,380 278,380
W G Tucker 16,610 – – – 16,610 107.6 – 1.2.12 1.8.12
155,860
*
––– 155,860 134.73 – 20.9.07 20.9.14
– 180,070
*
–– 180,070 133.7 – 11.5.08 11.5.15
172,470 352,540
A J Stevens 15,350 – – – 15,350 107.6 – 1.2.10 1.8.10
167,000
*
––– 167,000 134.73 – 20.9.07 20.9.14
– 180,070
*
–– 180,070 133.7 – 11.5.08 11.5.15
182,350 362,420
*
Granted under the Cobham Executive Share Option Scheme 2004.All other options were granted under the Cobham Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
**
Or date of earlier cessation of appointment.
† Granted under the Cobham Savings Related Share Option Scheme in 2001 and not previously reported.
T able 4:
Allocations under the Cobham long-term incentive plan
Monetary
value of
Conditionally Lapsed Vested vested
Allocation awarded during during the during the Allocations at awards Expiry
at 1/1/05 the year
1
year
2
year 31/12/05 £ date
3
A E Cook 924,130 242,340 319,150 – 847,320 – 11.5.08
G C Cooper 631,020 176,800 807,820 – – ––
A J Hannam 338,150 135,490 – – 473,640 – 11.5.08
W G Tucker 335,210 176,800 – – 512,010 – 11.5.08
A J Stevens 439,210 176,800 – – 616,010 – 11.5.08
1
The market price of a Cobham plc ordinary share on 11 May 2005, being the date of the awards made during the year, was 133.5p.
2
Lapsed shares comprise those shares conditionally awarded in 2002 and, in the case of G C Cooper, those conditionally awarded in 2003, 2004 and 2005 which lapsed following cessation of appointment.
3
The expiry date is the last date by which qualifying conditions in respect of any outstanding interests under the LTIP have to be fulfilled.This date may either be the expiry of any relevant holding period 
or (where applicable) of any restricted period. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 35
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The following statement sets out the responsibilities of the directors in
relation to both the Group and the parent company's financial statements
and the Annual Report.The reports of the independent auditors on page 36
and page 81 set out the auditors' responsibilities.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by 
the European Union, and for preparing the parent company financial
statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report in accordance 
with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards 
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
The directors are responsible for preparing financial statements for each
financial year which give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as
adopted by the European Union, of the state of affairs of the Group and 
of the profit or loss of the Group and a true and fair view, in accordance 
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state 
of affairs of the company for that period. In preparing those financial
statements, the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as
adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the parent company
financial statements whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it 
is inappropriate to presume that the group will continue in business.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements
in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 
of the IAS Regulation and the parent company financial statements and 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities. 36 Cobham plc
Independent Auditors’ Report to 
the Members of Cobham plc
We have audited the group financial statements of Cobham plc for the 
year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Consolidated Income
Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow
Statement, the Statement of Recognised Income & Expense, the related
notes and the accounting policies set out in the statement of Accounting
Policies.These Group financial statements have been prepared under the
accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements 
of Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 and on the
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described 
as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union are
set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance 
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on
Auditing (UK and Ireland).This report, including the opinion, has been prepared
for and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Section
235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.We do not, in giving
this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any
other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements
give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.We also report to you if, in our opinion, the
Directors’ Report is not consistent with the Group financial statements, if we
have not received all the information and explanations we require for our
audit, or if information specified by law regarding director’s remuneration
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the
company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority, and we report if it does not.We are not required to consider
whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and
controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider
whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairman’s Statement, the 
Chief Executive’s Review, the Business Review, the Financial Review, the
statement on Corporate Social Responsibility, the statement on strategy,
the statement on new structure, the Directors’ Report, the statement 
on Corporate Governance, and the unaudited part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report.We consider the implications for our report if we
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies
with the Group financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to
any other information.
Basis of audit opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the Group financial statements. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the
directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information 
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide 
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in 
the Group financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance
with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Group’s
affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit and cash flows for the
year then ended; and 
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
Southampton
7 April 2006 
Notes:
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the Cobham plc website is the
responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does
not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors
accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the
financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions. Accounting Policies
General information
These financial statements are the consolidated financial statements of
Cobham plc, a public limited company registered and domiciled in the
United Kingdom and its subsidiaries (‘the Group’).The address of the
registered office is Brook Road,Wimborne, Dorset, England BH21 2BJ.
Basis of preparation
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted in 
the EU, International Financial Reporting Interpretation Council (IFRIC)
interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to
companies reporting under IFRS. Disclosures required by IFRS 1 concerning
the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are given in Note 40.The December
2004 amendments to IAS 19 (Employee Benefits) have been adopted early.
Certain provisions of IAS 32 (Financial Instruments: Disclosure and
Presentation) and IAS 39 (Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement) have been adopted from 1 January 2005.
These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost
convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain current assets and
derivative contracts which are held at fair value.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the
date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period.Although these estimates are based on
management’s best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual
results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied
unless otherwise stated, are as set out below.
Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements include the financial statements of the
parent company and of all its subsidiaries made up to the end of the
financial period. Joint ventures and associates are accounted for using 
the equity method and include the Group’s share of the total recognised
gains and losses of joint ventures and associates from the date that
significant influence or joint control commences until the date significant
influence ceases.
Businesses acquired are accounted for as acquisitions, with effect from the
date control passes.Those disposed of are accounted for up until control
passes at the point of their disposal.The results of businesses disposed of,
and of those classified as held for sale at the year end are disclosed as arising
from discontinued operations.
All intra-group transactions balances, income and expenses are eliminated 
on consolidation.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the right to consideration and is
generally recognised when goods are despatched or services delivered and
excludes inter-company sales, value added tax and other sales taxes. In the
case of long-term contracts, revenue is recognised based upon the fair value
of work performed to date assessed with reference to contract milestones.
Pensions
The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution
schemes.
For defined benefit schemes the amounts charged to operating profit are the
current service costs. Gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are
included in operating profit or the profit on disposal as appropriate. Past
service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement if the
benefits have vested. If the benefits have not vested immediately, the costs
are recognised over the period until vesting occurs.The interest cost and
expected return on assets are shown within finance income and expense.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of
recognised income and expenses.
Other than the mainland European schemes, defined benefit schemes are
funded, with the assets of the scheme held separately from those of the
Group, in separate trustee administered funds. Pension scheme assets are
measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using
the projected unit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current
rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and
term to the scheme liabilities.The actuarial valuations are obtained at 
least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.The resulting
defined benefit asset or liability, is presented separately on the face of the
balance sheet.
For defined contribution schemes the amounts charged to the income
statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits are
the contributions payable in the year. Differences between contributions
payable in the year and contributions actually paid are recorded as either
accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
The Group has elected to adopt the December 2004 amendments to IAS 19
(Employee Benefits) early. In particular, the Group has adopted a policy of
recognising all actuarial gains and losses for all of its defined benefit plans in
the period in which they occur, outside the income statement, in the
statement of recognised income and expense.
T axation including deferred taxation
The tax expense relates to the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, which differs from profit
before taxation as reported in the income statement.T axable profit excludes
items of income and expense that are taxable in or deductible in other years
and also excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.The Group’s
liability for current tax is calculated using rates that have been enacted or
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in
respect of temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and
liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated financial statements.
Temporary differences arise primarily from the recognition of the provision
for the deficit on the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes and the
difference between accelerated capital allowances and depreciation. In
principle, deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary
differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is
probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible
temporary differences can be utilised.The carrying amount of deferred tax
assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that
it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to
allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 37 Accounting Policies continued
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the
period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.T ax is charged or
credited to the income statement except when the item on which the tax is
charged is credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred
tax is also dealt with in equity.
T ax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right 
to enforce current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the
deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
Dividends
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are 
fully authorised.
Share based remuneration
For grants made under the Group’s share based remuneration schemes,
amounts which reflect the fair value of options awarded as at the time of
grant are charged to the income statement.The valuation of the options
utilises a methodology based on the Black-Scholes model, modified where
required to allow for the impact of market related performance criteria.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2
(Share-based Payments) in respect of equity settled awards and has applied
IFRS 2 only to equity settled awards granted after 7 November 2002.
Intangible fixed assets
Goodwill
Purchased goodwill and goodwill arising on consolidation represents the
excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value 
of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary or joint venture at 
the date of acquisition.
Goodwill arising on overseas acquisitions is treated as a foreign currency
asset and revalued at the balance sheet date. Foreign exchange differences
arising are taken to the translation reserve and recycled to the income
statement when the related subsidiary is sold. Goodwill arising on
acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at 
the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment 
at that date.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings and joint
ventures is capitalised and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement 
and cannot be subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary or joint venture, the attributable amount of
goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Research and development
Research expenditure not chargeable to customers is written off as incurred.
Development costs not chargeable to customers are written off as incurred
until it can be demonstrated that the conditions for capitalisation as
described in IAS 38 (Intangible Assets) are met, at which point further costs
are capitalised as intangible assets up until the intangible asset is readily
available for production and amortised on a straight-line basis over the
asset’s estimated useful life.
Other intangible fixed assets
Intangible assets other than goodwill which are acquired by the Group are
stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.These
include customer lists, technology and software, trademarks, licences and
patents.The only internally generated intangible fixed assets are
development costs which are capitalised as described above.
Intangible assets are amortised over the asset’s estimated useful life on a
straight line basis as follows:
Customer lists 2 to 15 years 
Technology and software 2 to 10 years
Development costs 2 to 10 years
Other intangible fixed assets 6 months to 10 years
Property, plant and equipment
Freehold land is not depreciated, but is reviewed for impairment at 
least annually.
Freehold buildings, plant and equipment are held at cost less accumulated
deprecation and any recognised impairment losses. Carrying values are
reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying value may not be recoverable.An asset’s carrying amount 
is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s 
carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
All fixed assets other than land are depreciated on a straight-line basis to
their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives.These lives
are as follows:
Freehold buildings – 50 years
Leasehold properties – The period of the lease
Plant and equipment 
and other fixed assets – 3 to 15 years
Estimated residual values and the estimated useful lives are reviewed
annually and adjusted where necessary.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful
lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the
relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is
determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying
amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Investment properties
Investment property, which is property held to earn rentals and/or for capital
appreciation, is stated at cost at the balance sheet date. It is depreciated on a
straight-line basis to its estimated residual value over its estimated useful life
of 50 years. On transition to IFRS, investment properties have been valued
using the deemed cost model.
Aircraft overhaul expenditure
Major overhaul expenditure on owned aircraft is capitalised when incurred
and the resultant fixed asset depreciated over its useful economic life.
Major overhaul costs that are contractually required on aircraft held under
operating leases are accrued over the period between the scheduled
maintenance events.
Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are
measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
These items are so classified if their carrying amount will be recovered
38 Cobham plc through a sale transaction within 12 months of the balance sheet date rather
than through continuing use.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost
comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and
those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their
present location and condition. Cost is calculated using the first-in, first-out
method. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all
estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling
and distribution. Payments received and receivable on account of work in
progress are deducted from the cost of work carried out at the balance sheet
date to the extent of the valuation of the work done.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance
sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of 
the instrument.
When a financial asset or liability is recognised initially, it is measured at its
fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair
value through profit and loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable
to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset or financial liability.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their 
nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated
irrecoverable amounts.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to 
the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.An equity
instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the 
assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the amount 
of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, including
premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs,
are accounted for on an accruals basis to the income statement using 
the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount 
of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period 
in which they arise.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an
original maturity of three months or less. Bank overdrafts that are repayable
on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are
included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the
consolidated cash flow statement.
Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
Leases include hire purchase contracts which have characteristics similar to
operating or finance leases.All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at
their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease
payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.The corresponding 
liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease
obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and
reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest
on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly
against income.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-
line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating
lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative
contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the
derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the
item being hedged.
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in
foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.The Group uses foreign
exchange forward contracts, interest rate swap contracts and net investment
hedges to reduce these exposures.The Group does not use derivative
financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship
between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk
management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge
transactions.The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge
inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives used in
hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values
or cash flows of hedged items.
Fair value hedges
Changes in fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair
value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any
changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable
to the hedged risk.The gains or losses relating to interest rate swaps hedging
fixed rate borrowings are recognised in the income statement.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the
adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective
interest method is used is amortised to the income statement over the
period to maturity.
Cash flow hedge
The effective portion of changes in fair value of derivatives that are
designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.The gain
or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the
income statement.Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the
income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer
meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing
in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast
transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement. If a hedged
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss
recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement for 
the period.
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 39 Accounting Policies continued
Net investment hedges
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly
to cash flow hedges.Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to
the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity; the gain or 
loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the
income statement.
Gains or losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement
when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Foreign currencies
The functional currency of the parent company is sterling. Most Group
companies use their local currency as their functional currency. Local
transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated
at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets
and liabilities denoted in non-functional currencies are retranslated at the
exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences
arising are taken to the income statement.
In order to manage its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks the Group
enters into forward contracts and options which are accounted for as
derivative financial instruments.
The Group has determined that the portfolio hedging mechanism that it
utilises to cover its forward currency exposures is the most appropriate
commercial response to the nature of the risks faced.The Group manages
foreign currency exposures on a macro basis and has chosen not to apply
hedge accounting for its future foreign exchange transactions under IAS 39.
As required by the Standard, these instruments are recorded on the balance
sheet at fair value on transition and movements in fair value recorded
through the income statement.
For consolidation purposes the assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary
undertakings and joint ventures are translated at the closing exchange rates.
Income statements of such undertakings are consolidated at the average
rates of exchange during the year. Exchange differences arising on these
translations are taken to reserves.
Provisions
A provision is required when the Group has a present legal or constructive
obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that settlement will
be required of an amount that can be reliably estimated.
Provisions for warranty costs are recognised at the date of sale of the
relevant products, at the directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required
to settle the Group’s liability.
Provisions for onerous contracts are recognised when the expected benefits
to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable
cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
Provisions for contingent consideration are recognised when it is considered
probable that the conditions attaching to potential payment will be met.
Long-term liabilities and provisions are discounted when the impact is material.
Impairment losses
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets are reviewed at least annually to
determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such
indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in
use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted
to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the
asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
An impairment loss is recognised where the carrying value of an asset is less
than its recoverable amount.An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life
is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that
the asset may be impaired.Any impairment losses are recognised in the
income statement unless the asset is recorded at a revalued amount in
which case it is treated as a revaluation decrease.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying
amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been
determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had
been recognised.A reversal is recognised in the income statement unless the
asset is recorded at a revalued amount in which case it is treated as a
revaluation increase.
Share capital
Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable 
on a specific date or at the option of the preference shareholders or if
dividend payments are not discretionary. Dividends on preference share
capital classified as liabilities are recognised in the income statement
as interest expense.
Segment accounting policies
For reporting purposes the results of the Group are allocated between 
three reporting divisions.These operate in specific market areas and are as
described in Note 1.The Group accounting policies as described above are
applied consistently across the three divisions. Head office costs associated
with Group operations are included within the Aerospace Systems division,
with the exception of bid costs associated with the Future Strategic T anker
Aircraft (FSTA) project and losses associated with the revaluation of currency
instruments, which have been shown separately in the Group’s segmental
disclosures.Trading between Group companies is contracted and priced at
arm’s length commercial terms.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on
historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future
events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Management judgement
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management has
made a number of judgements, none of which are considered to have a
significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Estimation uncertainty
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future and the
resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related
actual results.The key assumptions concerning the future and other key
sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities in the next financial year are as follows:
Impairment of goodwill
The Group determines whether Goodwill is impaired at least on an annual
basis.This requires estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units
40 Cobham plc to which the goodwill is allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the
Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash
generating units and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to
calculate the present value of those cash flows.The carrying amount of
goodwill at 31 December 2005 was £424.0m (2004: £380.6m), further
details are given in Note 13.
T axation
The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant
judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for tax.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax
determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.The Group
recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of
whether additional taxes will be due.Where the final tax outcome of these
matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such
differences will impact the current tax provision, deferred tax provisions 
and income statement in the period in which such determination is made.
Accounting standards not yet effective
Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing
standards have been published that are mandatory for the Group’s
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006 or later periods 
but which the Group has not adopted early, are as follows:
• IAS 39 (Amendment), Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast 
Intra-group Transactions (effective from 1 January 2006).
The amendment relates to the application of hedge accounting rules to
highly probable forecast intra-group transactions.This amendment is not
considered relevant to the Group’s operations.
• IAS 39 (Amendment),The Fair Value Option (effective from 
1 January 2006).
This amendment changes the definition of financial instruments classified
at fair value through profit or loss and restricts the ability to designate
financial instruments as part of this category. Management is currently
assessing the impact of this amendment on the Group’s operations.
• IAS 39 and IFRS 4 (Amendment), Financial Guarantee Contracts (effective
from 1 January 2006).
This amendment relates to the recognition and valuation of certain issued
financial guarantees. Management is currently assessing the impact of this
amendment on the Group’s operations.
• IFRS 6, Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources (effective from
1 January 2006) (and amendment).
IFRS 6 is not relevant to the Group’s operations.
• IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and a complementary
amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements – Capital
Disclosures (effective from 1 January 2007).
IFRS 7 and this amendment to IAS 1 introduce new disclosures of
information about financial instruments and capital management.The
impact of these changes to the Group is that additional disclosures will be
required concerning the sensitivity analysis to market risk and the
management of capital.These will be applied for the year ended 31
December 2007.
• IFRIC 4, Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease (effective
from 1 January 2006).
IFRIC 4 requires the determination of whether an arrangement is or
contains a lease to be based on the substance of the arrangement.
Management is currently assessing the impact of IFRIC 4 on the 
Group’s operations.
• IFRIC 5, Rights to Interests Arising from Decommissioning, Restoration 
and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds (effective from 1 January 2006).
IFRIC 5 is not relevant to the Group’s operations.
• IFRIC 6, Liabilities Arising from Participating in a Specific Market – 
Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (effective from 
1 December 2005).
Management is currently assessing the impact of IFRIC 6 on the 
Group’s operations.
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 41 Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2005
42 Cobham plc
£m Note 2005 2004
Continuing Operations
Revenue 1, 7 970.3 832.3
Cost of sales (682.2) (593.4)
Gross Profit 288.1 238.9
Selling and distribution costs (54.7) (46.1)
Administrative expenses (83.4) (53.3)
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 3.1 2.6
153.1 142.1
Comprising:
Trading profit from continuing operations 7 170.0 143.8
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition (16.9) (1.7)
153.1 142.1
Loss on revaluation of currency instruments 25 (16.1) –
Operating Profit 137.0 142.1
Finance income 3 31.6 23.4
Finance expense 3 (42.6) (31.1)
Profit on Continuing Operations before T axation 126.0 134.4
T ax on continuing operations 4 (35.3) (38.1)
Profit on Continuing Operations after T axation 90.7 96.3
Discontinued Operations
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations 31 7.4 4.3
Profit after T axation for the year 98.1 100.6
Profit attributable to equity shareholders 97.6 100.3
Profit attributable to minority interests 0.5 0.3
Profit after T axation for the year 98.1 100.6
Earnings per Ordinary Share 6
– basic 8.71p 9.00p
– fully diluted 8.66p 8.94p
Earnings per Ordinary Share from Continuing Operations
– basic 8.05p 8.61p
– fully diluted 8.01p 8.55p Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2005
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 43
£m Note 2005 2004
Assets
Non-Current Assets
Intangible assets 12 528.1 405.6
Property, plant and equipment 14 202.8 237.8
Investment properties 15 4.0 4.1
Investments in joint ventures and associates 16 14.7 14.2
Trade and other receivables 18 8.5 7.3
Derivative financial instruments 25 4.5 –
Deferred taxation assets 22 6.8 –
769.4 669.0
Current Assets
Inventories 17 167.2 183.9
Trade and other receivables 18 208.5 221.9
Corporation tax 2.1 2.2
Derivative financial instruments 25 1.7 –
Cash and cash equivalents 19 251.8 176.0
Assets classified as held for sale 33 18.1 –
649.4 584.0
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Borrowings 23 (276.9) (188.6)
Trade and other payables 20 (174.2) (209.7)
Derivative financial instruments 25 (3.5) –
Corporation tax (48.1) (45.4)
Provisions 21 (42.7) (2.2)
Liabilities classified as held for sale 33 (14.2) –
(559.6) (445.9)
Non-Current Liabilities
Borrowings 23 (151.6) (151.3)
Trade and other payables 20 (7.8) (11.4)
Derivative financial instruments 25 (2.0) –
Deferred taxation liabilities 22 (8.8) (16.1)
Provisions 21 (20.9) (24.7)
Retirement benefit obligation 9 (81.0) (69.1)
(272.1) (272.6)
Net Assets 587.1 534.5
Capital and Reserves
Called up share capital 26 28.1 27.9
Share premium account 27 87.5 81.6
Translation reserve 27 13.0 (11.4)
Other reserves 27 11.3 4.8
Retained earnings 27 445.7 430.3
Total Shareholders’ Equity 585.6 533.2
Minority interest in equity 1.5 1.3
Total Equity 28 587.1 534.5
Approved by a duly appointed and authorised committee of the Board on 7 April 2006 and signed on its behalf by:
Gordon Page
Warren T ucker
Directors Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2005
44 Cobham plc
£m Note 2005 2004
Cash flows from Operating Activities
Cash generated from operations 11 210.3 164.7
Corporation taxes paid (39.2) (22.9)
Interest paid (23.6) (11.6)
Interest received 11.9 4.3
Net Cash from Operating Activities 159.4 134.5
Net Cash used in Investing Activities 11 (101.9) (108.4)
Cash flows from Financing Activities
Issue of share capital 6.1 4.9
Dividends paid (35.8) (32.3)
Dividends paid to minority interests (0.3) (0.3)
Increase in borrowings 136.1 4.5
Repayment of obligations under finance leases (12.8) (4.4)
Net Cash from/(used in) Financing Activities 93.3 (27.6)
Net increase/(decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 150.8 (1.5)
Cash and Cash Equivalents at start of year 101.4 106.1
Initial application of IAS 21, 32 and 39 40 (7.6) –
Cash and Cash Equivalents at start of year as restated 93.8 106.1
Exchange movements 2.0 (3.2)
Cash and Cash Equivalents at end of year
†
19 246.6 101.4
† Cash and cash equivalents include £8.3m cash held in discontinued businesses as detailed in Note 33. A reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents is detailed in Note 19. Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
For the year ended 31 December 2005
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 45
£m Note 2005 2004
Profit after T axation for the year 98.1 100.6
Net translation differences on investments in overseas subsidiaries 3.2 (1.3)
Actuarial loss on pensions 9 (46.5) (4.7)
Movement on deferred tax relating to pension liability 14.0 1.4
Net fair value gain on cash flow hedge 25 1.7 –
Movement on deferred tax relating to cash flow hedge (0.5) –
Net expenses recognised directly in equity (28.1) (4.6)
Total Income and Expense for the year 70.0 96.0
Initial application of IAS 21, 32 and 39 40 7.3 –
Total Recognised Income for the year 77.3 96.0
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 76.8 95.7
Minority interest 0.5 0.3
77.3 96.0 Notes to the Group Financial Statements
46 Cobham plc
1. Business and geographical segments
Business segments
For management purposes during 2005, the Group was organised into three operating divisions – Aerospace Systems, Chelton and Flight Operations & Services.
These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information.
Principal activities are as follows:
Aerospace Systems Air refuelling equipment, life support systems, fluid & air distribution and countermeasures
Chelton Antennas, aircraft communication and navigation equipment
Flight Operations & Services Operation and maintenance of aircraft in aerospace and defence markets
Head office costs associated with Group operations are included within the Aerospace Systems division, with the exception of bid costs associated with the
Future Strategic T anker Aircraft (FSTA) project and losses associated with the revaluation of currency instruments, which have been shown separately.
Continuing operations
Aerospace Systems and Group Chelton Flight Operations and Services Total
£m 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
Revenue
Revenue 253.1 234.3 520.2 409.3 197.0 188.7 970.3 832.3
Inter-segmental revenue 0.8 1.0 (1.0) (0.8) 0.2 (0.2) – –
Total revenue from third parties 253.9 235.3 519.2 408.5 197.2 188.5 970.3 832.3
Inter-segmental sales are charged at prevailing market prices.
Operating Profit
Segment operating profit from continuing operations 51.6 53.1 86.6 69.0 14.3 19.7 152.5 141.8
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates – – 0.2 0.3 2.9 2.3 3.1 2.6
Loss on revaluation of currency instruments (16.1) –
FSTA Bid Costs (2.5) (2.3)
Group Operating Profit 137.0 142.1
Finance income 31.6 23.4
Finance expense (42.6) (31.1)
Profit on Continuing Operations before T axation 126.0 134.4
T ax on continuing operations (35.3) (38.1)
Profit on Continuing Operations after T axation 90.7 96.3
Trading Profit Analysis
Operating Profit from continuing operations 51.6 53.1 86.6 69.0 14.3 19.7
Operating Profit from discontinued operations 7.7 6.2––––
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates – – 0.2 0.3 2.9 2.3
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition 1.2 – 15.7 1.7 – –
60.5 59.3 102.5 71.0 17.2 22.0 180.2 152.3
FSTA Bid Costs (2.5) (2.3)
Group Trading Profit 177.7 150.0
Balance sheet
Assets
Segment assets
– continuing operations 281.9 247.9 689.9 480.6 147.5 151.6 1,119.3 880.1
– discontinued operations 9.8 171.3–––– 9.8 171.3
Interests in joint ventures and associates – – 1.6 2.6 13.1 11.6 14.7 14.2
291.7 419.2 691.5 483.2 160.6 163.2 1,143.8 1,065.6
Unallocated assets – continuing operations 266.7 171.0
Unallocated assets – discontinued operations 8.3 16.4
Consolidated total assets 1,418.8 1,253.0
Liabilities
Segment liabilities
– continuing operations 75.1 72.8 121.4 96.6 49.1 37.8 245.6 207.2
– discontinued operations 13.6 30.2–––– 13.6 30.2
88.7 103.0 121.4 96.6 49.1 37.8 259.2 237.4
Unallocated liabilities – continuing operations 571.9 320.1
Unallocated liabilities – discontinued operations 0.6 161.0
Consolidated total liabilities 831.7 718.5 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 47
1. Business and geographical segments (continued)
Continuing operations
Aerospace Systems and Group Chelton Flight Operations and Services Total
£m 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
Other information
Capital additions 13.9 20.1 14.5 11.7 15.9 26.2 44.3 58.0
Depreciation and amortisation 11.3 12.1 27.4 12.6 24.0 21.2 62.7 45.9
Discontinued operations
The Group’s discontinued operations fell wholly within the Aerospace Systems division. Details of revenue and results from discontinued operations are shown
in Note 31.
Geographical segments
The Group’s operations in the Aerospace Systems and Chelton divisions are located in the UK, EU countries, the USA and the rest of the world.The Group’s
Flight Operations and Services division operates mainly in the UK and Australia.
The following table provides an analysis of the Group’s sales by geographical market, irrespective of the origin of the goods/services.
Continuing Discontinued Total
£m 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
Revenue by geographical market
UK 159.8 163.2 55.2 69.9 215.0 233.1
Other EU countries 182.8 155.5 21.1 27.8 203.9 183.3
USA 406.4 319.1 27.3 32.6 433.7 351.7
Australia 127.1 116.9 0.3 0.9 127.4 117.8
Rest of the world 94.2 77.6 16.2 15.5 110.4 93.1
970.3 832.3 120.1 146.7 1,090.4 979.0
The following is an analysis of the carrying amount of net segment assets (including continuing operations, discontinued operations and joint ventures and
associates but excluding unallocated segment assets and liabilities), and additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, analysed by the
geographical area in which the assets are located.
Carrying amount of Additions to property, plant and 
net segment assets equipment and intangible assets
£m 2005 2004 2005 2004
UK 298.0 302.9 23.3 24.5
Other EU countries 64.6 71.3 2.5 3.3
USA 446.3 352.6 8.1 7.4
Australia 36.1 67.6 9.8 22.1
Rest of the world 39.6 33.8 0.6 0.7
884.6 828.2 44.3 58.0
2. Profit for the year
Revenue, both from continuing and discontinued operations, comprises income from the sale of goods and services during the year.
The profit for the year from continuing operations is after charging/(crediting):
£m Note 2005 2004
Property rental income (1.4) (0.5)
Staff costs 8 304.9 255.0
Net realised foreign exchange gains (11.7) (8.7)
Research and development costs 41.2 37.9
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
– owned assets 39.6 42.1
– under finance leases 0.1 0.1
Amortisation of intangible assets 16.9 3.3
Operating lease rentals
– Aircraft 11.0 13.6
– Other including plant, machinery and property 7.1 7.5
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (2.1) –
Materials costs of goods sold 334.2 303.1
Release of inventory provision (1.5) (1.9)
Amortisation of intangible assets is included in administrative expenses. Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
48 Cobham plc
2. Profit for the year (continued)
During the year the Group (including overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Group’s auditor at costs as detailed below:
£m 2005 2004
Audit services – statutory audit 1.1 0.9
T ax compliance and advisory services 0.3 0.7
Other services not covered above 0.1 –
1.5 1.6
Amounts paid to other auditors 0.3 0.1
Total audit remuneration payable to all of the Group’s auditors as disclosed above is £1.4m (2004: £1.0m).
Included in the Group audit fees and expenses paid to the Group’s auditor, £189,000 (2004: £56,000) was paid in respect of the parent company.
Also included above are fees paid to the Group’s auditors in respect of non-audit services in the UK amounting to £0.1m (2004: £0.6m).
In addition to the amounts shown above, the auditors received fees of £23,890 (2004: £22,866) for the audit of the Group’s pension schemes.
A description of the work of the audit committee is set out in the Corporate Governance statement on page 26 and includes an explanation of how auditor
objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
3. Finance income and expense
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total
£m Note 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
Finance income:
Bank interest 10.2 4.2 0.3 0.2 10.5 4.4
Other interest 0.4 0.7 – – 0.4 0.7
Expected return on pension scheme assets 9 21.0 18.5 – – 21.0 18.5
Total finance income 31.6 23.4 0.3 0.2 31.9 23.6
Finance expense:
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans (21.1) (10.4) – (0.1) (21.1) (10.5)
Interest on obligations under finance leases (0.9) (0.7) – – (0.9) (0.7)
Interest on other borrowings (0.6) (1.6) – (0.1) (0.6) (1.7)
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 9 (20.0) (18.4) – – (20.0) (18.4)
Total finance expense (42.6) (31.1) – (0.2) (42.6) (31.3)
Net finance expense (10.7) (7.7)
Interest on other borrowings includes £1,182 (2004: £1,182) paid in respect of non-equity second cumulative preference shares (Note 26).
4. Income tax expense
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total
£m Note 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
Current tax 35.9 33.8 5.3 1.1 41.2 34.9
Deferred tax 22 (0.6) 4.3 0.2 0.8 (0.4) 5.1
Income tax expense for the year 35.3 38.1 5.5 1.9 40.8 40.0
Income tax for the UK is calculated at the standard rate of UK Corporation tax of 30% (2004: 30%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
T axation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.
The total charge for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows:
£m 2005 2004
Profit before tax:
– continuing operations 126.0 134.4
– discontinued operations 12.9 6.2
138.9 140.6
T ax at the domestic income tax rate of 30.0% (2004: 30.0%) 41.7 42.2
T ax effect of share of results of joint ventures and associates (0.9) (1.2)
T ax disallowed items 1.7 (0.5)
Overseas tax rates higher than UK rates 2.1 2.7
Expenditure qualifying for additional R&D tax deduction (1.9) (1.1)
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years (1.9) (2.1)
Total tax charge for the year 40.8 40.0
In addition to the income tax expense charged to the income statement, a deferred tax credit of £13.5m (2004: £1.4m) has been recognised in equity in the
year as shown in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 49
5. Dividends
£m 2005 2004
Dividends on ordinary shares
Final dividend per share for the year ended 31 December 2004 (2004: 31 December 2003) 2.18p 1.98p
Interim dividend per share for the year ended 31 December 2005 (2004: 31 December 2004) 1.01p 0.92p
Total final dividend authorised 24.5 22.0
Total interim dividend authorised 11.3 10.3
Total dividend authorised 35.8 32.3
In addition to the above, the directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2005 of 2.4p per share which will
absorb an estimated £27m of shareholders’ funds.This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been
included as a liability in these financial statements. If authorised, it will be paid on 7 July 2006 to shareholders who are on the register of members as at 
2 June 2006.
On 8 July 2005, the ordinary shares of Cobham plc were subdivided such that each existing ordinary share was replaced by ten new ordinary shares.
Comparative information has been restated to reflect this subdivision.
6. Earnings per Ordinary Share
From continuing and discontinued operations
2005 2004
Weighted Weighted
average average
number of Per-share number of Per-share
Earnings shares amount Earnings shares amount
£m million pence £m million pence
Basic Earnings per Share (EPS)
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 97.6 1,120.7 8.71 100.3 1,114.5 9.00
Effect of dilutive securities:
Options 5.7 7.0
Long-term incentive plans – 0.7
Fully Diluted EPS 97.6 1,126.4 8.66 100.3 1,122.2 8.94
From continuing operations
2005 2004
Weighted Weighted
average average
number of Per-share number of Per-share
Earnings shares amount Earnings shares amount
£m million pence £m million pence
Basic Earnings per Share (EPS)
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 90.2 1,120.7 8.05 96.0 1,114.5 8.61
Effect of dilutive securities:
Options 5.7 7.0
Long-term incentive plans – 0.7
Fully Diluted EPS 90.2 1,126.4 8.01 96.0 1,122.2 8.55
From discontinued operations
Basic earnings per share for the discontinued operations is 0.66p per share (2004: 0.39p per share) and diluted earnings per share for the discontinued
operations is 0.65p per share (2004: 0.39p per share), based on the profit for the year from the discontinued operations of £7.4m (2004: £4.3m) and the share
data above for both basic and diluted earnings per share. Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
50 Cobham plc
7. Underlying profit and earnings per share
In addition to the information required by IAS 33 (Earnings Per Share), the directors believe that it is helpful to calculate an underlying earnings per share
figure based on profits excluding gains and losses on disposal of undertakings, amortisation of intangible fixed assets recognised on acquisition and unrealised
changes in fair value of currency derivative instruments.
2005 2004
£m Note Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total
Revenue 970.3 120.1 1,090.4 832.3 146.7 979.0
Group Operating Profit 137.0 7.7 144.7 142.1 6.2 148.3
Loss on revaluation of currency instruments 16.1 – 16.1 –––
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets arising on acquisition 16.9 – 16.9 1.7 – 1.7
Trading Profit 170.0 7.7 177.7 143.8 6.2 150.0
Net finance expense 3 (11.0) 0.3 (10.7) (7.7) – (7.7)
Underlying Profit before T axation 159.0 8.0 167.0 136.1 6.2 142.3
T axation charge on underlying profit (46.0) (1.9) (47.9) (38.5) (1.9) (40.4)
Minority interest (0.5) – (0.5) (0.3) – (0.3)
Underlying Profit After T ax Attributable to Equity Shareholders 112.5 6.1 118.6 97.3 4.3 101.6
Underlying EPS (basic) 10.58p 9.12p
8. Staff
Employment costs (continuing and discontinued operations)
£m 2005 2004 
Wages and salaries 297.5 260.4
Social security costs 33.3 29.6
Pension costs – defined benefit 6.6 7.9
– defined contribution 7.6 5.7
Share incentive scheme 2.7 2.3
347.7 305.9
Employment costs – continuing operations 304.9 255.0
Employment costs – discontinued operations 42.8 50.9
347.7 305.9
Average number of employees by geographic area
2005 2004 
Number Number
UK 4,348 4,415
Other EU countries 1,320 1,109
USA 3,416 2,808
Australia 1,047 978
Rest of the world 584 553
10,715 9,863
Average number of employees by category of employee
2005 2004 
Number Number
Production – direct 6,058 5,596
Production – indirect 2,866 2,644
Sales and marketing 640 548
Administration and IT 1,151 1,075
10,715 9,863 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 51
9. Retirement benefit schemes
Defined contribution schemes
The Group manages a number of defined contribution pension arrangements.
The total expense recognised in the income statement of £7.6m (2004: £5.7m) represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Group at rates
specified in the rules of the schemes.
There were no significant contributions outstanding at the end of 2004 or 2005 for either the defined benefit or defined contribution schemes.
Defined benefit schemes
The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes, the most significant being the Cobham Pension Plan (CPP), which is a funded defined benefit
scheme.The assets of all of these schemes are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees. From 1 January 2003, new
employees in the UK have only been able to join the defined contribution scheme. In the USA, the Carleton Technologies defined benefit scheme has been
closed to new members from 13 December 2003.
In 2005, as a part of the settlement of the disposal of the Fluid and Air group, a special contribution of £24m was made to the main Cobham defined benefit
scheme and a curtailment benefit of £5m and a settlement gain of £1m were recognised as part of the profit on disposal (Note 32).
The most recent actuarial valuations of scheme assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligations for the CPP were carried out at 1 April 2004
and updated to 31 December 2005 by qualified independent actuaries.Actuarial valuations of other schemes have been carried out at regular intervals as
required by the applicable country regulations.
The principal assumptions used for the purpose of the actuarial valuations were as follows:
UK Schemes USA Schemes European Schemes
At 31 December 2005
Rate of increase in salary costs 3.50% 3.50% 1.00%
Discount rate 5.00% 5.50% 4.50%
Inflation assumption 2.90% 3.00% N/A
Expected return on scheme assets 7.07% 7.25% N/A
Pensions increase 2.9% * N/A 1.75%
*unless overridden by specific scheme rules
The amount recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the Group’s defined benefit scheme is as follows:
£m 2005 2004
Present value of funded obligations (451.3) (363.3)
Fair value of scheme assets 370.3 294.2
Net liability (81.0) (69.1)
The net liability above includes £1.7m (2004: £1.5m) in relation to one of the European schemes which is unfunded.
The scheme assets do not include any of the Group’s own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by the Group.
Amounts recognised in operating profit in respect of the defined benefit scheme are as follows:
£m Note 2005 2004
Current service cost included in operating profit 6.6 7.9
Gain on curtailment included in operating profit – (1.0)
Gain on curtailment included in profit on disposal 32 (5.0) –
Gain on settlement included in profit on disposal 32 (1.0) –
Amounts credited/(charged) to other finance income:
£m Note 2005 2004
Expected return on pension scheme assets 3 21.0 18.5
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 3 (20.0) (18.4)
Net return 1.0 0.1 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
52 Cobham plc
9. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
Amount recognised in statement of recognised income and expense (SORIE):
£m 2005 2004
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 33.1 8.8
Experience losses arising on scheme liabilities (9.9) (5.4)
Exchange differences (0.1) –
Changes in assumptions underlying present value of scheme liabilities (69.6) (8.1)
Actuarial loss recognised in SORIE (46.5) (4.7)
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense is £51.2m loss.
The actual return on scheme assets was £54.1m (2004: £27.3m).
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
£m 2005 2004
Opening defined benefit obligation 363.3 326.1
Current service cost 6.6 7.9
Interest cost 20.0 18.5
Actuarial losses 79.5 12.6
Contributions by members 4.2 4.6
NI rebates 1.1 1.3
Gains on curtailments (5.0) (1.0)
Obligation transferred on disposal of undertakings (7.6) –
Obligation acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries – 6.0
Exchange differences 1.4 (1.2)
Benefits paid (12.2) (11.5)
Closing defined benefit obligation 451.3 363.3
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows:
£m 2005 2004
Opening fair value of scheme assets 294.2 254.9
Expected return 21.0 18.5
Actuarial gains 33.1 8.8
Expenses (1.0) (0.7)
Assets distributed on settlements (6.6) –
Contributions by members 4.2 4.6
NI rebates 1.1 1.3
Contributions by employers 11.0 14.2
Special contribution 24.0 –
Assets acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries – 5.1
Exchange differences 1.5 (1.0)
Benefits paid (12.2) (11.5)
Closing fair value of scheme assets 370.3 294.2
The Group expects to contribute £13.3m to its defined benefit pension schemes in 2006.
The fair value of major categories of scheme assets, and as a percentage of total scheme assets are as follows:
2005 2004
£m % £m %
Equity instruments 254.1 68.6% 219.1 74.5%
Debt instruments 81.7 22.0% 57.3 19.5%
Property 15.0 4.1% ––
Other assets 19.5 5.3% 17.8 6.0%
370.3 100.0% 294.2 100.0%
The expected rates of return on individual categories of scheme assets are determined by reference to relevant indices published by, for example, the London
Stock Exchange.The overall expected rate of return is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the scheme’s
investment portfolio. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 53
9. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
The history of the scheme for the current and previous four periods is as follows:
£m 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
Present value of defined benefit obligation (451.3) (363.3) (326.1) (231.8) (250.4)
Fair value of scheme assets 370.3 294.2 254.9 165.3 240.1
Deficit (81.0) (69.1) (71.2) (66.5) (10.3)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities (9.9) (5.4) 2.1 (8.0) –
Experience adjustments on scheme assets 33.1 8.8 20.3 (50.3) –
Note that historical data for 2001, 2002 and 2003 is as stated under UK GAAP, FRS 17 (Retirement Benefits).
10. Share-based payments
Equity-settled share option scheme
The Group operates two incentive schemes for certain senior executives, the Cobham Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and the Cobham Executive Share
Option Scheme (ESOS).
Under the LTIP scheme awards are made at nil cost, vesting over a three year performance period based on the Group’s Total Shareholder Return relative to
that of a comparator group and also conditional upon the Group’s EPS growth over the same period.
Under the ESOS, options are granted at a price not less than the market value of the Group’s ordinary shares on, or shortly before the date the options are
granted. Exercise is conditional upon the Group’s EPS growth over a three year period.
Further details of these schemes can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
In addition, entry to the Cobham Savings Related Share Option Scheme (ShareSave), is available to all employees of participating subsidiaries. Employees may
purchase the Group’s shares at 80% of the closing market price on the date of grant during a two-week period each year, up to a maximum contribution
value of £3,000 in any one year.The shares so purchased are generally placed in the employees share savings plan and will only be released to employees who
remain in the Group’s employment for a period of three years from the date of grant.
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2005 2004
Number of Number of
LTIP share options share options
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 3,383,730 2,481,630
Granted during the year 1,526,990 1,655,370
Forfeited during the year (430,410) –
Exercised during the year (93,014) –
Expired during the year (519,760) (753,270)
Outstanding at the end of the year 3,867,536 3,383,730
Exercisable at the end of the year – –
The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.53 years (2004: 1.75 years). During 2005, options
were granted on 11 May with an estimated fair value of £0.551. In 2004, options were granted on 28 April and 20 September.The estimated fair values of the
options granted on those dates were £0.883 and £0.815 respectively.
These fair values were calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model modified by a Monte Carlo simulation to determine the likely impact of
market-related performance conditions.The inputs into the model were as follows:
2005 2004
Weighted average share price £1.335 £1.359
Weighted average exercise price Nil N/A
Expected volatility 22% 25%
Expected life 3 Y ears 3 Y ears
Risk free rate 4.4% 4.8%
Expected dividend yield 2.3% 2.1%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous three years.The expected life used in the
model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
54 Cobham plc
10. Share-based payments (continued)
ESOS
2005 2004
Number of Weighted average Number of Weighted average
share options exercise price share options exercise price
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 16,106,770 1.108 14,776,639 1.003 
Granted during the year 4,728,927 1.432 4,267,410 1.350 
Forfeited during the year (972,850) 1.248 (78,819) 0.993 
Exercised during the year (3,781,420) 0.984 (2,858,460) 0.922 
Outstanding at the end of the year 16,081,427 1.224 16,106,770 1.109
Exercisable at the end of the year 4,633,950 0.941 6,317,940 0.975 
Share options were exercised throughout the year and the average share price was £1.444 (2004: £1.321).The options outstanding at the end of the year
have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 7.75 years (2004: 7.69 years), exercise prices range from £0.580 to £1.624. In 2005, options were
granted on 11 May, 19 October and 9 December.The estimated fair values of the options granted on those dates are £0.317, £0.350 and £0.400 respectively.
In 2004, options were granted on 16 June, 20 September and 13 October.The estimated fair values of the options granted on those dates are £0.389, £0.368
and £0.364 respectively.
These fair values were calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.The inputs into the model were as follows:
2005 2004
Weighted average share price 1.404 1.354 
Weighted average exercise price 1.432 1.350 
Expected volatility 26% 28%
Expected life 5 Y ears 5 Y ears
Risk free rate 4.4% 4.9%
Expected dividend yield 2.1% 2.1%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous five years.The expected life used in the
model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
ShareSave
2005 2004
Number of Weighted average Number of Weighted average
share options exercise price share options exercise price
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 15,772,490 0.886 18,247,780 0.787 
Granted during the year 2,125,123 1.240 4,421,000 1.076 
Forfeited during the year (567,650) 0.935 (615,990) 0.835 
Exercised during the year (905,298) 0.713 (5,551,330) 0.693 
Expired during the year (256,340) 0.931 (728,970) 0.844 
Outstanding at the end of the year 16,168,325 0.939 15,772,490 0.896 
Exercisable at the end of the year – – – – 
Share options were exercised throughout the year and the average share price was £1.444 (2004: £1.321).The options outstanding at the end of the year
have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.27 years (2004: 2.64 years), exercise prices range from £0.691 to £1.240. In 2005, options were
granted on 1 February with estimated fair values of £0.405 (three year life), £0.487 (five year life) and £0.549 (seven year life). In 2004, options were granted
on 1 February with estimated fair values of £0.355 (three year life), £0.410 (five year life) and £0.465 (seven year life).
These fair values were calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.The inputs into the model were as follows:
2005 2004
Weighted average share price £1.382 £1.184
Weighted average exercise price £1.076 £0.939
Expected volatility 23%-31% 27%-31%
Expected life 3-7 Y ears 3-7 Y ears
Risk free rate 4.5% 4.7%
Expected dividend yield 2.2% 2.3%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous three to seven years, dependent on the
life of the option.The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise
restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The Group recognised total expenses of £2.7m (2004: £2.3m) related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions during the year. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 55
11. Notes to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
£m 2005 2004
Cash flows from Operating Activities
Profit after T axation for the Year 98.1 100.6
Adjustments for:
Tax 40.8 40.0
Finance income (31.9) (23.6)
Finance expense 42.6 31.3
Profit on disposal of undertakings (5.6) –
Loss on revaluation of currency instruments 16.1 –
Share of post tax profits from joint ventures and associates (3.1) (2.6)
Depreciation 44.5 42.6
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets 18.2 3.3
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (2.1) –
Pension expenditure in excess of cash contributions (3.4) (7.3)
Share based payments 2.7 1.2
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital and provisions 216.9 185.5
Movement in other provisions 12.6 (3.7)
Increase in working capital (19.2) (17.1)
Increase in working capital and provisions (6.6) (20.8)
Cash generated from Operations 210.3 164.7
Cash flows from Investing Activities
Dividends received from joint venture 1.2 5.0
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 6.4 1.1
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (38.9) (40.6)
Purchase of intangible fixed assets (4.0) (0.2)
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired (189.0) (69.5)
Disposal of undertakings 149.4 –
Payment of deferred consideration (2.3) –
Investment in joint ventures and associates 1.0 (4.3)
Capitalised expenditure on development costs (1.7) (0.1)
Special pension contribution (24.0) –
Short term investments held for sale – 0.2
Net Cash used in Investing Activities (101.9) (108.4)
Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt
£m 2005 2004
Increase in cash in the year 150.8 (1.5)
Increase in debt and lease financing (127.2) (4.6)
Exchange movements (19.8) (3.2)
Movement in Net Debt in the year 3.8 (9.3)
Net Debt at beginning of year (163.9) (154.6)
Initial application of hedging rules (8.2) –
Net Debt at beginning of year as restated (172.1) (154.6)
Net Debt at end of year
†
(168.3) (163.9)
† Net debt includes £8.3m cash held in discontinued businesses as detailed in Note 33. Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
56 Cobham plc
12. Intangible Fixed Assets
£m Note 2005 2004
Goodwill 13 424.0 380.6
Other Intangible Fixed Assets (as below) 104.1 25.0
Total Intangible Fixed Assets 528.1 405.6
Movements in other Intangible Fixed Assets are as follows:
Customer Technology Development 
£m lists and software costs Other Total
Cost
At 1 January 2004 – – 4.0 5.1 9.1
Foreign exchange adjustments – 0.1 – (0.1) –
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries 14.4 5.9 0.1 1.5 21.9
At 1 January 2005 14.4 6.0 4.1 6.5 31.0
Additions – purchased – 3.9 – 0.1 4.0
Additions – internally generated – – 1.7 – 1.7
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries 58.8 14.1 – 19.9 92.8
Disposed on sale of undertakings – – (5.0) (0.5) (5.5)
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.4) 1.4 – 1.0 2.0
Reclassification – 0.3 – 0.5 0.8
At 31 December 2005 72.8 25.7 0.8 27.5 126.8
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2004 – – 1.4 1.5 2.9
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.1) 0.1 – (0.2) (0.2)
Charge for the year 0.5 0.2 0.9 1.7 3.3
At 1 January 2005 0.4 0.3 2.3 3.0 6.0
Charge for the year 2.8 10.8 0.7 3.9 18.2
Eliminated on disposal of undertakings – – (2.6) (0.2) (2.8)
Foreign exchange adjustments – 0.5 – 0.2 0.7
Reclassification – 0.4 – 0.2 0.6
At 31 December 2005 3.2 12.0 0.4 7.1 22.7
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2005 69.6 13.7 0.4 20.4 104.1
At 31 December 2004 14.0 5.7 1.8 3.5 25.0
Values ascribed to customer lists represent the fair value of acquired customer lists, contracts and other related customer relationships, both contractual and
non-contractual, held by the acquired company at time of entry into the Group.
Values ascribed to technology and software represent the fair value of acquired trade secrets and processes, patented and unpatented technology and know-
how held by the acquired company at time of entry into the Group.This category also includes the purchase of technology and software rights and licenses,
where it is appropriate to recognise such items as assets.
Values ascribed to development costs represent the directly attributable costs of internally generated development knowledge from the point at which an
individual project meets the requirements for capitalisation until it is available for utilisation in the business.
Values ascribed to other Intangible Fixed Assets represent both purchased and acquired patents, licences and trademarks.
All of these assets are recognised at fair value to purchase or acquire and are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Fair values of acquired Intangible Fixed Assets have been assessed by reference to the future estimated cash flows arising from the application of assets,
discounted at an appropriate rate to present value, or by reference to the amount that would have been paid in an arm’s length transaction between
knowledgeable and willing parties. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 57
13. Goodwill
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2004 342.2
Arising on acquisition of subsidiaries 41.5
Foreign exchange adjustment (3.1)
At 1 January 2005 380.6
Arising on acquisition of subsidiaries 85.9
Resulting from movements in contingent consideration 4.2
Eliminated on disposal of undertakings (55.6)
Foreign exchange adjustments 9.1
Reclassification (0.2)
At 31 December 2005 424.0
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 January 2004 and 2005, and 31 December 2005 –
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2005 424.0
At 31 December 2004 380.6
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units (CGUs) that are expected to benefit from that business
combination. Before recognition of impairment losses, the carrying amount of goodwill arising on acquisitions during 2005 has been allocated as follows:
£m 2005
Aerospace Systems
H. Koch & Sons Co 21.1
Chelton
REMEC Defense and Space Inc 54.8
Other acquisitions 10.0
Flight Operations & Services –
At 31 December 2005 85.9
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations.The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding
the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period for which management have detailed plans.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGU
being measured.The growth rates are based on the GDP of the primary market for the CGU, adjusted to recognise an estimate of the historic and projected
premium associated with the high technological content associated with the business. Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and
expectations of future changes in the market.The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management
for the next five years and extrapolates cash flows after that period based on growth rates as described above.
The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows is 10.5% (2004: 10.5%).
Following detailed review, no impairment losses have been recognised in the period and no prior impairment losses reversed.
REMEC Defense & Space Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, has £54.8m of goodwill allocated to it and no other intangible assets with indefinite
useful lives.The recoverable amount associated with this goodwill has been determined on a value in use basis. Key assumptions are as follows:
• The authorised plan for the company has been extrapolated in perpetuity using a growth rate of 6.0% and discounted to a present value using the Group
assumption of 10.5%. Growth rate is based on US GDP adjusted to reflect a premium for the nature of the CGU’s business.
• Sensitivity analysis has determined that the discount rate of 10.5% is the most influential assumption on the outcome of the recoverable amount calculation.
The recoverable amount exceeds the total carrying value of assets for this CGU by £52m and the discount rate would need to increase to more than 12.5% in
order for the carrying value to be impaired.
European Antennas Ltd is the CGU most sensitive to an increase in discount rate. Currently the goodwill in this CGU is not impaired, based on a discount rate
of 10.5% and a long-term growth rate of 2.8%. If the discount rate were to rise to 11.0%, a goodwill impairment of £0.5m would be required for this CGU.
The remainder of the goodwill is allocated to various CGUs across the Group, no individual amounts other than those disclosed above are considered
individually significant. Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
58 Cobham plc
14. Property, plant and equipment
Plant and Payments
Land and buildings machinery Fixtures on account
(including fittings and assets
Long Short aircraft & tools and under 
£m Freehold leases leases vehicles) equipment construction Total
Cost
At 1 January 2004 80.4 18.1 4.3 311.3 55.5 10.2 479.8
Additions 5.4 0.3 4.6 37.9 4.9 4.9 58.0
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries 0.1 – – 5.7 0.9 – 6.7
Disposals (0.1) – (0.2) (3.7) (2.1) (0.4) (6.5)
Foreign exchange adjustments (1.4) (0.1) (0.5) (3.6) (0.9) (0.3) (6.8)
Reclassification 2.8 (2.0) 1.6 7.2 0.6 (10.2) –
At 1 January 2005 87.2 16.3 9.8 354.8 58.9 4.2 531.2
Additions 1.8 0.8 0.2 32.2 4.7 (1.1) 38.6
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries – 1.9 – 12.7 0.2 0.5 15.3
Disposal of undertakings (12.6) – (6.2) (50.7) (7.1) (1.4) (78.0)
Disposals (2.8) – – (5.4) (2.0) – (10.2)
Reclassified as held for sale (3.6) – – (2.4) (0.4) (0.2) (6.6)
Foreign exchange adjustments 2.5 0.2 1.1 8.5 1.9 0.2 14.4
Reclassification 0.8 – (0.4) (1.3) 0.5 (0.7) (1.1)
At 31 December 2005 73.3 19.2 4.5 348.4 56.7 1.5 503.6
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2004 14.2 4.1 1.1 195.6 39.9 – 254.9
Depreciation charge for the year 2.0 0.3 0.8 32.9 6.6 – 42.6
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries – – – 3.2 0.6 – 3.8
Eliminated on disposals – – (0.2) (3.1) (2.0) – (5.3)
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.4) – – (1.7) (0.7) – (2.8)
Reclassification 0.8 (0.7) – 0.6 (0.5) – 0.2
At 1 January 2005 16.6 3.7 1.7 227.5 43.9 – 293.4
Depreciation charge for the year 2.4 0.3 0.4 36.2 5.2 – 44.5
Disposal of undertakings (3.3) – (0.4) (28.1) (5.1) – (36.9)
Eliminated on disposals – – – (4.1) (1.8) – (5.9)
Reclassified as held for sale (0.1) – – (0.5) (0.1) – (0.7)
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.7 0.1 0.2 5.1 1.4 – 7.5
Reclassification – – (0.1) (1.1) 0.1 – (1.1)
At 31 December 2005 16.3 4.1 1.8 235.0 43.6 – 300.8
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2005 57.0 15.1 2.7 113.4 13.1 1.5 202.8
At 31 December 2004 70.6 12.6 8.1 127.3 15.0 4.2 237.8
The carrying amount of the Group’s plant and machinery includes an amount of £0.3m (2004: £12.9m) in respect of assets held under finance leases.These
assets are held as security against the finance lease liabilities.
15. Investment properties
£m 2005 2004
Investment property at cost 4.1 4.1
Accumulated depreciation (0.1) –
Carrying amount 4.0 4.1
All of the Group’s investment property is held under freehold interests and is valued under the cost model.
Property rental income earned by the Group from its investment property amounted to £0.5m (2004: £0.5m), which is net of all direct costs associated with
the leasing of the property, save for depreciation.The annual depreciation charge is £84,000, calculated on a straight-line method over 50 years, in line with
the Group’s policy for freehold buildings.The building is leased to a commercial user on an operating lease with a 25 year term that commenced in 1998.
A fair value of £7.0m has been ascribed to the property, this is based on an estimated market price provided by the agent who manages the property on the
Group’s behalf.The agent is experienced in marketing such properties in the location. No formal valuation has been completed. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 59
16. Investments in joint ventures and associates
£m 2005 2004
Investment in associates
Cost of investment in associates – 1.0
– 1.0
Investment in joint ventures
Group’s share of net assets of joint ventures (as below) 14.7 13.2
Total investment in associates and joint ventures 14.7 14.2
Associates
Summarised financial information in respect of the Group’s associates is set out below:
£m 2005 2004
Total assets – 0.6
Total liabilities – (0.2)
Net assets – 0.4
Revenue 1.8 1.7
Profit after tax for the period 0.2 0.2
The investment in associates represented a shareholding of 40% of the shares of TracStar Inc. During the year the Group acquired the remaining 60% of this
company’s shares as detailed in Note 30, consequently this entity is fully consolidated as at 31 December 2005.
Joint ventures
The Group has the following significant interests in joint ventures within the Flight Operations and Services division:
a) 45% of the voting share capital in Aviation Défense Service S.A., a company incorporated in France.
b) 50% of the voting share capital in FB Heliservices Limited, a company incorporated in England.
c) 50% of the voting share capital in FBS Limited, a company incorporated in England.
Governance structures for Aviation Défense Service S.A are such that the Group has joint control with its partner and therefore the investment is treated as a
joint venture.
The share of the balance sheets and income statements of the joint ventures which has been included in the consolidated financial statements is as follows:
£m 2005 2004
Current assets 18.1 23.0
Non-current assets 46.3 46.7
64.4 69.7
Current liabilities (5.7) (13.1)
Non-current liabilities (44.0) (43.4)
(49.7) (56.5)
Net assets 14.7 13.2
Income 32.7 31.1
Expenses (28.5) (26.7) Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
60 Cobham plc
17. Inventories
£m 2005 2004
Raw materials and consumables 62.1 68.8
Work in progress 89.4 106.7
Finished goods and goods for resale 22.2 18.6
Payments on account (6.5) (10.2)
167.2 183.9
There is no significant difference between the replacement cost and the fair value of inventories shown.
An allowance for obsolescence is included in raw materials and consumables and amounts to £30.6m (2004: £36.2m).This allowance is reviewed by the
directors on a regular basis and further amounts are provided or released as considered necessary.
18.Trade and other receivables
18a. Current
£m 2005 2004
Trade receivables 172.0 194.7
Amounts recoverable on contracts 5.0 1.5
Other receivables 12.3 –
Prepayments and accrued income 19.2 25.7
208.5 221.9
18b. Non-current
£m 2005 2004
Trade receivables 0.2 0.5
Amounts recoverable on contracts 1.3 0.1
Other receivables 7.0 6.7
8.5 7.3
An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods of £2.0m (2004: £2.1m).This allowance has been determined by
reference to past default experience.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
19. Cash and cash equivalents
Bank balances and cash comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.The carrying
amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the cash flow statement:
£m Note 2005 2004
Cash and cash equivalents 251.8 176.0
Bank overdrafts (13.5) (74.6)
238.3 101.4
Cash and cash equivalents held in discontinued businesses 33 8.3 –
246.6 101.4
20.Trade and other payables
20a. Current liabilities
£m 2005 2004
Payments received on account 21.5 23.4
Trade payables 80.3 101.8
Bills of exchange payable – 3.4
Payroll and other taxes including social security 13.4 17.0
Accruals and deferred income 52.3 42.7
Other liabilities 6.7 21.4
174.2 209.7 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 61
20.Trade and other payables (continued)
20b. Non-current liabilities
£m 2005 2004
Accruals and deferred income 2.0 0.3
Other liabilities 5.8 11.1
7.8 11.4
Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The directors consider that the carrying amount
of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
21. Provisions
Contract Aircraft
Contingent Warranty loss maintenance
£m consideration claims provisions provisions Other Total
At 1 January 2005 7.1 1.0 9.0 9.0 0.8 26.9
Reclassification primarily from creditors * – 4.6 9.1 3.3 14.2 31.2
Additional provisions in the year 4.2 1.6 6.8 0.7 9.2 22.5
Utilisation of provisions (2.0) (1.5) (8.5) (3.0) (0.5) (15.5)
Unused amounts reversed in the year – (1.0) (3.1) – (4.1) (8.2)
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries –– 8.2–– 8.2
Disposal of undertakings – (1.5) – – (0.6) (2.1)
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.2 – 0.2 0.2 – 0.6
At 31 December 2005 9.5 3.2 21.7 10.2 19.0 63.6
£m 2005 2004
Analysed as:
Current liabilities 42.7 2.2
Non-current liabilities 20.9 24.7
63.6 26.9
*During the year, the directors considered that reclassification of certain balances from other balance sheet categories, primarily creditors, to provisions was appropriate to properly reflect the nature of the liabilities involved. The net
movement in provisions excluding reclassifications and subsidiary acquisitions/disposals was a net reduction of £0.6m.
Contingent consideration
Contingent consideration has been provided for where it is considered probable that the conditions applicable to the payment of contingent consideration in
respect of acquisitions made by the Group in current and previous years will be met.The amount provided is therefore the amount considered likely to be
payable in the event of these conditions being met.Arrangements of this nature vary, but may typically extend for up to five years.
Warranty claims
The warranty provision represents management’s best estimate of the Group’s liability under warranties granted on products sold, based on past experience
and industry averages for defective products. It is anticipated that most of these costs will be incurred in the next two financial years.
Contract loss provisions
Contract loss provisions represent management’s best estimate of the amount by which the expected benefits from certain specific contracts are lower than
the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under those contracts.The timeframe within which such provisions will unwind varies by contract, but is
generally in excess of one year.
Aircraft maintenance provisions
Aircraft maintenance provisions are established in respect of significant periodic maintenance costs, where maintenance activity is required on operational
aircraft or engines on a cycle greater than 12 months. Costs are charged to the income statement on the basis of utilisation of the aircraft and are credited to
the provision.The provision is then utilised by absorbing the actual costs incurred in carrying out the maintenance activity. Maintenance carried out on a cycle
of 12 months or less is charged to the income statement as incurred.
When aircraft are leased, it is customary for the contract to contain specific conditions regarding the state of the aircraft on its return to the lessor at the end
of the lease.These conditions may relate to the number of operational hours to be available before a major maintenance check, the physical configuration of
the aircraft or direct costs to be incurred by the lessee in the physical return of the aircraft to the lessor.The estimated cost associated with fulfilling these
requirements is charged to the income statement on an aircraft utilisation basis.The provision is utilised on actual return of the aircraft or on incurring the
expenditure required to return the aircraft to the state of maintenance required by the lease before return of the aircraft to the lessor.
Other provisions
Other provisions include provisions recognised in connection with the disposal of the Fluid and Air group and specific legal claims outstanding at the year end
where a liability is seen as probable. Of these amounts £8m relates to liabilities deriving from tax related matters that were previously provided within
corporation tax.This amount is included within reclassification.All amounts have been determined based on the directors’ current estimates of likely
outcomes. Provisions relating to the Fluid and Air disposal are likely to unwind over a period of more than one year.All other items are likely to be resolved
over a period of one to two years. Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
62 Cobham plc
22. Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group, and the movements thereon:
Accelerated tax Retirement benefit 2005 2004
£m Note depreciation obligation Other Total Total
At 1 January 2005 (19.5) 20.7 (17.3) (16.1) 0.5
Initial application of IAS 21, 32 and 39 – – (4.7) (4.7) –
(19.5) 20.7 (22.0) (20.8) 0.5
Credit/(charge) to income statement 4 5.9 (10.4) 4.9 0.4 (5.1)
Credit/(charge) to reserves for the year – 14.0 (0.5) 13.5 1.4
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries (1.0) – (1.6) (2.6) (12.9)
Disposed on sale of undertakings 4.3 – 0.2 4.5 –
Foreign exchange adjustments 1.5 – 1.3 2.8 –
Reclassified as held for sale 0.2 – – 0.2 –
At 31 December 2005 (8.6) 24.3 (17.7) (2.0) (16.1)
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy. Deferred tax balances (after offset) for balance
sheet purposes are analysed as follows:
£m 2005 2004
Deferred tax liabilities (8.8) (16.1)
Deferred tax assets 6.8 –
(2.0) (16.1)
Deferred tax liabilities fall due as follows:
Deferred tax liability falling due within one year – –
Deferred tax liability falling due after one year (8.8) (16.1)
(8.8) (16.1)
Deferred tax assets are recoverable as follows:
Deferred tax asset to be recovered within one year 2.9 –
Deferred tax asset to be recovered after one year 3.9 –
6.8 –
The movements on the deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances, are as follows:
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated tax Retirement benefit 2005 2004
£m depreciation obligation Other Total Total
At 1 January 2005 (20.0) – (24.6) (44.6) (26.8)
Initial application of IAS 21, 32 and 39 – – (5.3) (5.3) –
(20.0) – (29.9) (49.9) (26.8)
Credit/(charge) to income statement 4.1 – (1.3) 2.8 (4.9)
Charge to reserves for the year – – (0.5) (0.5) –
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries (1.0) – (1.6) (2.6) (12.9)
Disposed on sale of undertakings 4.3 – 0.2 4.5 –
Foreign exchange adjustments 1.5 – 1.3 2.8 –
Reclassified as held for sale 0.2 – – 0.2 –
At 31 December 2005 (10.9) – (31.8) (42.7) (44.6)
Deferred tax assets
Accelerated tax Retirement benefit 2005 2004
£m depreciation obligation Other Total Total
At 1 January 2005 0.5 20.7 7.3 28.5 27.3
Initial application of IAS 21, 32 and 39 – – 0.6 0.6 –
0.5 20.7 7.9 29.1 27.3
(Credit)/charge to income statement 1.8 (10.4) 6.2 (2.4) (0.2)
Credit to reserves for the year – 14.0 – 14.0 1.4
At 31 December 2005 2.3 24.3 14.1 40.7 28.5
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of £78m (2004: £78m) potentially available for offset against future profits in certain
circumstances. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of this amount because of the unpredictability of future qualifying profit streams.
These losses can be carried forward indefinitely. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 63
22. Deferred tax (continued)
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates for
which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is £196m (2004: £163m). No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences because the Group
is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The Group’s share of the tax on temporary differences arising in connection with interests in joint ventures was £1.8m (2004: £1.9m).
23. Borrowings
£m Note 2005 2004
Current
Bank loans and overdrafts 272.1 171.1
Loan notes 1.6 1.6
Senior notes 2.9 5.2
Other borrowings 0.1 0.1
Finance leases 24 0.2 10.6
276.9 188.6
Non current
Bank loans 7.6 15.5
Loan notes 8.6 10.3
Senior notes 134.4 125.1
Other borrowings 0.1 0.2
Preference shares 26 – –
Finance leases 24 0.9 0.2
151.6 151.3
Total borrowings 428.5 339.9
The non-current borrowings are repayable as follows:
Within 1-2 years 8.7 9.4
Within 2-3 years 7.3 12.8
Within 3-4 years 32.8 4.2
Within 4-5 years 1.4 30.3
After five years 101.4 94.6
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 151.6 151.3
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
£m 2005 2004
Sterling 14.6 102.5
US dollars 330.6 168.5
Australian dollars 11.1 43.3
Euro 68.4 24.7
Other currencies 3.8 0.9
Total 428.5 339.9
The average interest rates paid were as follows:
2005 2004
Bank overdrafts 4.85% 3.98%
Bank loans 3.74% 4.10%
Loan notes 4.65% 4.46%
Senior notes 4.75% 2.95%
Other borrowings 7.56% 8.85%
As at 31 December 2005 the Group had total borrowings of £428.5m of which £152.1m (2004: £159.9m) were at fixed rates exposing the Group to fair
value interest rate risk, being £14.8m of bank loans (2004: £29.6m) and £137.3m of senior notes (2004: £130.3m).All other borrowings were at floating rates
with regular repricing dates exposing the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
In respect of the fixed rate borrowings the group held senior notes as at 31 December 2005 of £128.6m (2004: £118.4m) which were swapped into floating
rates on issuance in 2002 through to their maturity in 2009 (£31.3m) and 2012 (£97.3m), the rates being set on a six monthly basis.The Group has applied
hedge accounting in respect of the swap and its fair value is detailed in Note 25.
Of the floating rate debt of £276.4m at the year end the Group held a forward starting swap that will have the effect of swapping £151.4m of current bank
loans at floating rate into fixed rate at 4.48% from January 2006 through to maturity in June 2010, with quarterly reset dates.The Group has applied hedge
accounting in respect of the swap and its fair value is detailed in Notes 25 and 27c. Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
64 Cobham plc
23. Borrowings (continued)
The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities in various currencies available in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met.These
facilities are at floating interest rates:
£m 2005 2004
Expiring within one year 65.6 47.8
Expiring between one and five years 59.0 71.6
124.6 119.4
The estimated fair value of the Group’s borrowings, by discounting their future cash flows at the market rate, is as follows:
£m 2005 2004
Bank overdrafts 13.5 74.6
Bank loans 266.2 112.0
Loan notes 10.2 11.9
Senior notes (held at fair value) 137.3 130.3
Other borrowings 1.3 11.1
428.5 339.9
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand.
The Group has principal bank loans as follows:
In July 2005, a new £300m revolving multi-currency credit facility was entered into to replace an existing £150m facility and the US$200m bridge facility put
in place to finance the REMEC acquisition.This facility, arranged for general corporate purposes, is for five years, with extensions of up to two years at the
option of the banks. Interest is payable at the drawn currencies’ applicable LIBOR rate plus margin.The loan agreement contains no provisions for charges over
Group assets and includes both financial and non financial covenants. As at 31 December 2005, £241.6m had been drawn on this facility.
A seven year bank loan for AUS$25.9m (£11.0m, 2004: £10.6m) expiring in June 2007 is secured by an all assets and undertakings charge over the Group’s
Australian operations.These operations had gross assets of AUS$181.6m (£77.6m, 2004: £82.3m) which includes cash and cash equivalents of AUS$23.0m
(£9.8m, 2004: £12.4m).
In addition, two tranches of senior notes were issued in 2002, being US$55m maturing in 2009 with a 5.14% coupon and US$170m maturing in 2012 with
a 5.58% coupon.The respective agreements contain no provisions for charges over Group assets and include both financial and non-financial covenants.
24. Obligations under finance leases
Present value of 
Minimum lease payments minimum lease payments
£m 2005 2004 2005 2004
Amounts payable under finance leases:
Within one year 0.2 10.7 0.2 10.6
In the second to fifth years inclusive 0.4 1.0 0.4 0.2
After five years 0.5 – 0.5 –
1.1 11.7 1.1 10.8
Less: future finance charges – (0.9) n/a n/a
Present value of lease obligations 1.1 10.8 1.1 10.8
Less:Amount due for settlement within 12 months (shown under current liabilities) (0.2) (10.6)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 0.9 0.2
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its fixtures and equipment under finance leases.The average lease term remaining is seven years. For the year ended 
31 December 2005, the average effective borrowing rate was 9.0% (2004: 9.2%). Interest rates are fixed at the contract date, and thus expose the Group to
fair value interest rate risk.All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
Lease obligations are denominated in sterling, US dollars and euros.
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ title to the underlying leased assets. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 65
25. Derivatives and other financial instruments
The Group’s multi-national operations and debt financing expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in debt market prices,
foreign currency exchange rates, credit risks, equity securities prices, liquidity and interest rates.The Group has in place a risk management programme that
seeks to limit the adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group by using foreign currency financial instruments, debt, and other instruments,
including interest rates swaps.
Financial instruments
The Group finances its operations primarily through a mixture of retained profits and borrowings.The Group does not use complex derivative financial
instruments.Where it does use financial instruments these are mainly to manage the currency risks arising from normal operations and to raise finance for
the Group’s operations.The Group’s financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise borrowings, cash and various items such as trade debtors and trade
creditors that arise directly from its operations.The Group also uses forward foreign currency contracts to manage transactional currency risks arising from
the Group’s operations and interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risks. Foreign currency borrowings are used to mitigate the impact of foreign currency
exchange rates on the Group’s overseas net assets.
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
Foreign currency risk is the most significant aspect for the Group in the area of financial instruments. It is exposed to a lesser extent to other risks such as
interest rate risk and liquidity risk.The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below.The policies have
remained unchanged throughout the year.
Foreign currency risk 
The Group, which is based in the UK and reports in sterling, has significant investment in overseas operations in the USA, with further investments in other EU
countries,Australia, Canada, South Africa and Asia.As a result, the Group’s balance sheet can be affected by movements in these countries’ exchange rates.The
Group’s policy is to reduce, or eliminate where practicable, both structural and transactional foreign exchange risk.Where significant, currency denominated
net assets are partially hedged by currency borrowings and as at the year end £330.6m US dollar borrowings and £52.9m of euro borrowings were designated
as the hedging instrument in net investment hedges.
The Group also has transactional currency exposures. Such exposures arise from sales and purchases by operating units in currencies other than the unit’s
functional currency.The Group’s policy is to minimise trading in subsidiaries’ non operating currencies. However, where this is impractical the Group will seek
to reduce its exposure through the use of forward contracts. Currency exposures are reviewed regularly and all significant foreign exchange transactions are
approved by the parent company.
The sterling/US dollar exchange rate is the most important as far as Cobham is concerned, particularly given the level of US dollars which the subsidiaries
expect to receive from their normal business activities. In addition to the longer term borrowing structure, a number of financial instruments are used to
manage the foreign exchange position, such as forward contracts.As at 31 December 2005, $224m (2004: $221m) of dollar forward contracts were in place
with maturity dates out to 2014 (2004: 2014).These contracts are at an average exchange rate of $1.72: £1 (2004: $1.68: £1). It is the Group’s current belief
that the net dollar receipts from its subsidiaries will exceed the level of the outstanding commitment.
Interest rate risk
The Group has various long and short term borrowings principally in US dollars, euros and sterling at both fixed and floating rates of interest.The Group is
monitoring continually its exposure to movements in interest rates in order to bring greater stability and certainty with respect to borrowing costs. Group policy is
to assess borrowings with regard to fixed or variable rates of interest depending on prevailing market conditions. Operating under this interest rate management
policy the Group has acquired interest swaps, further detail in respect of these instruments and their accounting treatment is detailed in Notes 23 and 24.
Surplus funds are placed on short term deposit.These deposits have floating rates of interest, and thus there is some modest exposure to interest rates.
Liquidity risk
The Group has a strong cash flow and where practicable the funds generated by operating companies are managed on a regional basis. For short-term
working capital purposes in the UK, most operating companies utilise local bank facilities within an overall Group arrangement. In the USA a central treasury
function is maintained which all US subsidiaries use.These practices allow a balance to be maintained between continuity of funding, security and flexibility.
As regards liquidity, the Group’s policy throughout the year has been to maintain a mix of short, medium and long-term borrowings with their lenders. Short
term flexibility is achieved by overdraft facilities and the use of the Group’s revolving credit facility. In addition, it is the Group’s policy to maintain undrawn
committed borrowing facilities in order to provide flexibility in the management of the Group’s liquidity; details are provided in Note 23.
Commodity price risk
The Group’s exposure to price risk is minimal. Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
66 Cobham plc
25. Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
Credit risk
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables 
and investments.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by
international credit-rating agencies.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s customer base being large and unrelated. Due to this, the
directors believe there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of normal provision for doubtful receivables.
In the UK the group has a master netting arrangement in respect of bank balances. In the normal course of business these bank accounts are not settled on a
net basis and as such are presented in the financial statements as gross. In the event of an automatic enforcement event the bank balances are automatically
set off against each other to achieve a net position.
The Group has not pledged any assets in respect of any of its primary borrowing facilities, except as disclosed in Notes 23 and 24.
Comparative balances have not been restated in accordance with the provisions of IFRS 1 and are therefore stated under SSAP 20 (Foreign Currency
Translation) of UK GAAP.
Cash flow Fair value Currency translation
£m hedge hedge derivatives Total
Movement in fair values
Initial application of IAS 32 and 39 – 0.9 17.6 18.5
Fair value loss in period through Income Statement – (3.4) (16.1) (19.5)
Fair value gain in period through Reserves 1.7 – – 1.7
Fair value at 31 December 2005 1.7 (2.5) 1.5 0.7
Interest rate swaps are accounted for using hedge accounting. Movements in fair values are matched against the corresponding liabilities or reflected in
reserves as appropriate.
Currency instruments are not accounted for using IFRS hedge accounting and movements in fair values are reflected in the Income Statement.
The fair values of the Group’s currency and interest rate derivatives are established using valuation techniques, primarily discounting cash flows, based on
assumptions that are supported by observable market prices or rates.
Balance Sheet analysis
Cash flow Fair value Currency translation 
£m hedge hedge derivatives Total
Derivative financial instruments – non-current assets 1.3 – 3.2 4.5
Derivative financial instruments – current assets 0.4 – 1.3 1.7
Derivative financial instruments – current liabilities – (0.5) (3.0) (3.5)
Derivative financial instruments – non-current liabilities – (2.0) – (2.0)
Fair value at 31 December 2005 1.7 (2.5) 1.5 0.7
The Group has applied the transitional provisions of IAS 39 (Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement) and accordingly has not recorded fair
values for any derivatives held at 31 December 2004.At that date, in accordance with SSAP 20 (Foreign Currency Translation), certain transaction balances
were recorded at the rates implicit in the matching forward foreign currency contracts. Other derivative contracts were not recognised on the Balance Sheet.
Effect of initial application of IAS 32 and 39
Cash flow Currency translation 
£m Note hedge Fair value hedge derivatives Total
Initial application of IAS 32 and 39 – recognition 40 – 0.9 17.6 18.5
Initial application of IAS 32 and 39 – hedge accounting – (0.9) – (0.9)
– – 17.6 17.6
Deferred tax impact – – (5.3) (5.3)
Net impact to Total Equity at 1 January 2005 – – 12.3 12.3 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 67
26. Share capital
Authorised:
£m 2005 2004
1,479,200,000 (2004: 1,479,200,000) ordinary shares of par value 2.5p each 37.0 37.0
19,700 6% second cumulative preference shares of £1 each – –
Issued and fully paid:
Number of shares £m
At 1 January 2004 1,109,707,900 27.8
Exercise of share options 6,361,150 0.1
At 1 January 2005 1,116,069,050 27.9
Exercise of share options 6,790,440 0.2
At 31 December 2005 1,122,859,490 28.1
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. On 8 July 2005 the ordinary shares of Cobham plc were subdivided such
that each existing ordinary share was replaced by ten new ordinary shares.The new subdivision of share capital has been made to improve liquidity in the
trading of Cobham plc shares.The numbers of shares above have been restated to reflect this change.
The 6% second cumulative preference shares are non-redeemable and are classified as borrowings.
The shareholders of the 6% second cumulative preference shares are entitled to receive a fixed cumulative preference dividend at the rate of 6% per annum
in priority to the payment of dividends on the ordinary shares (included within finance income as shown in Note 3). In addition, on a return of assets on the
liquidation or otherwise of the company, the assets available for distribution are to be applied first in repaying to the holders of the 6% second cumulative
preference shares the amounts paid up on their shares. On a show of hands, every member holding 6% second cumulative preference shares who is present in
person has one vote and on a poll, every member has one vote for every £1 in nominal amount of the shares of which the member is the holder.
27. Reserves
£m Note 2005 2004
Share premium account 27a 87.5 81.6
Translation reserve 27b 13.0 (11.4)
Other reserves
Hedging reserve 27c 1.2 –
Share options reserve 27d 10.1 4.8
Total other reserves 11.3 4.8
Retained earnings 27e 445.7 430.3
557.5 505.3
27a. Share premium account
£m
At 1 January 2004 76.8
Issue of shares 4.8
At 1 January 2005 81.6
Issue of shares 5.9
At 31 December 2005 87.5
27b.Translation reserve
£m
At 1 January 2004 –
Currency differences on translation of foreign operations (11.4)
At 1 January 2005 (11.4)
Currency differences on translation of foreign operations 24.6
Transfer to profit on sale of undertakings (0.2)
At 31 December 2005 13.0 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
68 Cobham plc
27c. Hedging reserve
£m Note
At 1 January 2004 and 2005 –
Increase in fair value of cash flow hedging derivatives 25 1.7
T ax effect of increase in fair value of cash flow hedging derivatives 22 (0.5)
At 31 December 2005 1.2
The hedging reserve reflects movements in fair values on cash flow hedging derivatives.
27d. Share options reserve
£m
At 1 January 2004 2.8
Charge to reserve for the year 2.0
At 1 January 2005 4.8
Charge to reserve for the year 5.3
At 31 December 2005 10.1
The share options reserve includes the cost of share options issued during the year as assessed under IFRS 2 together with deferred tax provided under IAS 12
relating to share based payments, where the calculated future tax benefit is in excess of the allowable charge for the year.
27e. Retained earnings
£m Note
At 1 January 2004 40 355.5
Total income and expense for the year 96.0
Transfer to translation reserve 11.4
Dividends authorised 5 (32.3)
Profit for the year attributable to minority interest (0.3)
At 1 January 2005 430.3
Initial application of IAS 21, 32 and 39 7.3
At 1 January 2005 as restated 437.6
Total income and expense for the year 70.0
Transfer to translation reserve (24.4)
Transfer to hedging reserve (1.2)
Dividends authorised (35.8)
Profit for the year attributable to minority interest (0.5)
At 31 December 2005 445.7
28. Reconciliation of Changes in Total Equity 
£m Note 2005 2004
Total Equity at start of year as previously stated 534.5 464.0
Initial application of IAS 21, 32 and 39 40 7.3 –
Total Equity at start of year as restated 541.8 464.0
Total income and expense for the year 70.0 96.0
Dividends authorised 5 (35.8) (32.3)
Profit attributable to minority interest (0.5) (0.3)
Increase in called up share capital 26 0.2 0.1
Increase in share premium account 27 5.9 4.8
Increase in share options reserve 27 5.3 2.0
Increase in minority interest 0.2 0.2
Total Equity at end of year 587.1 534.5 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 69
29.Adjustment of prior year fundamental accounting error on transition to IFRS
During the Group’s IFRS conversion project, errors were identified in the accounts of National Jet Systems Pty Ltd that dated back to accounting entries on
acquisition in 2000.The errors related to provisions required for heavy maintenance costs and obligations relating to the return of aircraft and engines under
operating lease contracts.
In accordance with IFRS 1, these fundamental prior year errors have been adjusted on transition with the effect that provisions as at 1 January 2004 have
been increased by £9.7m, a tax asset of £2.9m has been recognised and opening reserves adjusted by a net £6.8m. In addition, some small adjustments have
been made to the unaudited IFRS transition statements previously published to reflect reclassification more accurately and the amended reconciliations are
included in Note 40.
30.Acquisition of subsidiaries
The following acquisitions took place during the year to 31 December 2005:
Names of businesses acquired Principal activity Date of acquisition Proportion of shares acquired % Cost of acquisition
REMEC Defense and Space Inc Active microwave 20 May 2005 100% US $257m
Vector Fields Limited Antenna development 14 June 2005 100% £2m
WA Systems Limited Battlefield systems 20 January 2005 100% £1m cash
£2m contingent consideration
Mastsystem International Oy Land antennas 1 February 2005 100% €12m
TCRMA Components 31 January 2005 100% €0.5m
H Koch & Sons Co Life saving devices 23 June 2005 100% US $51m
Microwave Development Company Microwave 15 July 2005 100% US $14m
TracStar Inc Satellite communication 19 September 2005 remaining 60% US $7m
US $2m contingent consideration
The following acquisition took place after the Balance Sheet date and before approval of these Financial Statements:
Name of business acquired Principal activity Date of acquisition Proportion of shares acquired % Cost of acquisition
Aerodata Flight Inspection GmbH Inspection and calibration 
of aircraft safety systems 13 February 2006 100% €11m
The transaction was for the equity of Aerodata Flight Inspection GmbH and the minority interest in the 51% owned subsidiary, Flight Precision Ltd. The consideration paid related 
to both elements.
Components of the cost of acquisition:
£m REMEC Defense and Space Inc Other acquisitions Total
Cash 140.5 51.2 191.7
Contingent consideration – 3.4 3.4
Directly attributable acquisition costs 0.5 0.3 0.8
141.0 54.9 195.9
Net assets acquired:
REMEC Defense and Space Inc Other acquisitions Total acquisitions
Book value prior Book value prior Book value prior
£m Fair value to acquisition Fair value to acquisition Fair value to acquisition
Current assets:
– Inventories 6.3 6.4 3.6 4.2 9.9 10.6
– Trade receivables 7.9 8.0 5.3 5.3 13.2 13.3
– Bank and cash balances 0.1 0.1 3.4 3.4 3.5 3.5
Non-current assets:
– Intangibles 72.7 – 20.1 0.3 92.8 0.3
– Property, plant and equipment 13.1 8.3 2.2 1.6 15.3 9.9
Current liabilities:
– Trade payables (5.7) (6.1) (7.8) (6.9) (13.5) (13.0)
– Provisions (8.2) (1.3) – – (8.2) (1.3)
Non-current liabilities:
– Deferred tax liability – – (2.6) – (2.6) –
–Otherliabilities – – (0.4) – (0.4) –
Net assets acquired 86.2 15.4 23.8 7.9 110.0 23.3
Goodwill on acquisition 54.8 – 31.1 – 85.9 –
141.0 15.4 54.9 7.9 195.9 23.3
Directly attributable acquisition costs included in the cost of acquisition are the direct legal and accounting costs incurred in developing the acquisition
contracts and performing due diligence activities. Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
70 Cobham plc
30.Acquisition of subsidiaries (continued)
All intangible assets were recognised at their respective fair values.The residual excess of total cost over the fair value of net assets acquired is recognised as
goodwill in the financial statements. Goodwill represents the value of synergies and assembled workforces acquired.
Adjustments from book value to fair value include adjustments arising from the application of Group accounting policies, the recognition of Intangible 
Fixed Assets under IFRS 3 (Business Combinations) and fair value adjustments to inventories, receivables, property plant and equipment, payables and 
contract loss provisions.
If the acquisitions during the year had taken effect on 1 January 2005 the consolidated entity would have recorded total revenues of £1,138m and net profit
after tax of £106m.These results have been adjusted to fully amortise intangibles acquired other than goodwill together with related income tax effects.This
information is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that would have occurred had the operations been acquired at the start of the year, nor of
future results of the combined operations.
£m REMEC Defense and Space Inc Other acquisitions Total acquisitions
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration paid including expenses of acquisition 141.0 51.5 192.5
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (0.1) (3.4) (3.5)
140.9 48.1 189.0
Profit after tax since date of acquisition (as adjusted for intercompany interest) 3.7 3.4 7.1
The directors consider that it is not practicable to disclose details of the acquisition of Aerodata Flight Inspection GmbH and the minority interest in Flight
Precision Ltd in these financial statements.
31. Discontinued operations
During the year, the Board decided to dispose of various business operations, in line with the Group strategy to focus on key markets and value-added technologies.
On 28 June 2005 the Board decided to dispose of the Group’s Countermeasures operations and the process has now been completed. FR Countermeasures
Inc was sold on 23 December 2005, accordingly this has been treated as a disposal in these financial statements. On 8 March 2006 a definitive agreement
was signed to sell Wallop Defence Systems Ltd and this is classified as held for sale and presented separately in the balance sheet.The operations are included
in the Aerospace Systems division in the Group’s segmental analysis (Note 1).The proceeds of disposal of the remaining operations exceeded the book value
of the related net assets and accordingly no impairment losses have been recognised on the classification of these operations as held for sale and their results
are reported within discontinued operations.
On 27 June 2005 an announcement was made concerning the disposal of the Cobham Fluid Systems products division, which produces equipment for
handling specialist fluids and gases for non-airborne applications.The disposal of this division was completed on 1 August 2005, on which date control of the
division’s operations passed to the acquirer.
On 13 September 2005 an announcement was made to dispose of the Fluid and Air group of companies.The group designs and manufactures hydraulic and
air distribution assemblies, composite struts and shafts, and fuel pumps and fuel components.The disposal was finally completed on 17 November 2005, on
which date control of the whole of the Fluid and Air group operations passed to the acquirer.
The results of the discontinued operations for the year, or to the date of disposal, were as follows:
2005 2004
Fluid and Other discontinued Total discontinued Fluid and Other discontinued Total discontinued
£m Air group operations operations Air group operations operations
Revenue 93.5 26.6 120.1 116.8 29.9 146.7
Cost of sales (80.5) (19.1) (99.6) (98.7) (21.5) (120.2)
Distribution costs (3.3) (2.6) (5.9) (5.4) (4.1) (9.5)
Administrative expenses (5.2) (2.4) (7.6) (7.6) (3.2) (10.8)
Other income – 0.7 0.7 –––
Operating profit 4.5 3.2 7.7 5.1 1.1 6.2
Finance income and expense 0.1 0.2 0.3 –––
Profit before tax 4.6 3.4 8.0 5.1 1.1 6.2
Tax (1.2) (0.7) (1.9) (1.6) (0.3) (1.9)
Profit for the year after tax 3.4 2.7 6.1 3.5 0.8 4.3
Profit on disposal before tax 4.9 –
T ax on profit on disposal (3.6) –
Total profit after taxation from discontinued operations 7.4 4.3 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 71
31. Discontinued operations (continued)
2005 2004
Fluid and Other discontinued Total discontinued Fluid and Other discontinued Total discontinued
£m Air group operations operations Air group operations operations
Cash flows from Discontinued Operations
Net Cash received/(used) in Operating Activities (8.4) 4.4 (4.0) (0.8) 8.0 7.2
Net Cash received/(used) in Investing Activities (3.0) 5.9 2.9 (7.2) (20.4) (27.6)
Net Cash received/(used) in Financing Activities (1.1) (1.4) (2.5) – (0.1) (0.1)
Foreign exchange (1.6) (2.1) (3.7) (0.1) – (0.1)
(14.1) 6.8 (7.3) (8.1) (12.5) (20.6)
Earnings per Ordinary Share of Discontinued Operations
– basic 0.66p 0.39p
– fully diluted 0.66p 0.39p
The carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities of the Fluid and Air group and other disposals at the date of disposal are disclosed in Note 32 below.
Geographical segments
The sales revenue by geographical market of discontinued activities is presented in Note 1.
32. Disposal of subsidiaries and business operations
As referred to in Note 31 above, during the year to 31 December 2005, the Group disposed of its Fluid and Air group, part of its Countermeasures operations,
and the Cobham Fluid Systems products division.
The consideration for these disposals was as follows:
Fluid and FR Countermeasures Cobham Fluid Systems
£m Air group Inc products division Total disposals
Cash 150.0 0.6 7.9 158.5
Contingent consideration (1.7) 2.9 – 1.2
148.3 3.5 7.9 159.7
The profit on disposal can be analysed as follows:
Total consideration 148.3 3.5 7.9 159.7
Net assets at date of disposal (134.2) (11.2) (7.0) (152.4)
Expenses of sale (including cancellation of foreign exchange contracts) (7.0) (0.5) (0.2) (7.7)
Pension liability curtailment gain 5.0–– 5.0
Pension liability settlement gain 1.0–– 1.0
Profit/(loss) on disposal 13.1 (8.2) 0.7 5.6
The net assets of the operations disposed of were as follows:
Fluid and FR Countermeasures Cobham Fluid Systems
£m Air group Inc products division Total disposals
At date of disposal
Attributable goodwill 53.1 – 2.5 55.6
Other intangible fixed assets 2.7–– 2.7
Property, plant and equipment 27.3 13.3 0.5 41.1
Inventories 34.2 0.6 2.2 37.0
Trade and other receivables 28.3 0.3 1.8 30.4
T ax receivable 8.7–– 8.7
Cash and cash equivalents 1.4 0.1 – 1.5
Deferred tax liability (4.5) – – (4.5)
Trade and other payables including provisions (17.0) (3.1) – (20.1)
Net assets at date of disposal 134.2 11.2 7.0 152.4 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
72 Cobham plc
32. Disposal of subsidiaries and business operations (continued)
Fluid and FR Countermeasures Cobham Fluid Systems
£m Air group Inc products division Total disposals
At 31 December 2004
Attributable goodwill 53.1 – 2.5 55.6
Other intangible fixed assets 2.6 – – 2.6
Property, plant and equipment 26.0 16.9 1.7 44.6
Inventories 32.2 1.8 4.4 38.4
Trade and other receivables 23.2 7.4 3.0 33.6
T ax receivable 8.4 – – 8.4
Cash and cash equivalents and overdrafts 2.7 4.3 (1.6) 5.4
Deferred tax liability (4.8) (0.2) (0.2) (5.2)
Current tax liability (0.1) (0.6) – (0.7)
Trade and other payables (17.2) (10.7) (3.0) (30.9)
Net assets at 31 December 2004 126.1 18.9 6.8 151.8
The impact of the disposals on the Group’s results and cash flows in the current and prior periods is disclosed in Note 31 above.
33. Non-current assets held for sale
As disclosed in Note 31 above, Wallop Defence Systems Ltd has been classified as held for sale and presented separately in the balance sheet.
The major classes of assets and liabilities classified as held for sale are as follows:
£m 2005
Property, plant and equipment 5.9
Inventories 1.7
Trade & other receivables 2.2
Cash at bank 8.3
Total assets classified as held for sale 18.1
Trade and other payables (13.6)
T ax and other liabilities (0.6)
Total liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale (14.2)
Net assets of disposal group 3.9
34. Operating lease arrangements
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for minimum lease payments due under non-cancellable operating leases, which expire
as follows:
£m 2005 2004
Within one year 7.4 2.2
Between one and five years 33.9 25.4
After five years 77.4 85.3
118.7 112.9
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office properties and operational aircraft used in its service businesses. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 73
35. Contingent liabilities
As at 31 December 2005, the parent company and the Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and contractual performance guarantees and 
other matters arising in the ordinary course of business entered into for, or on behalf of, certain Group undertakings.Where it is expected that a material
liability will arise in respect of these matters, appropriate provision has been made within the Group consolidated financial statements or within those of 
the relevant subsidiary.
As the conditions of the above guarantees are currently being met, no obligating event is forseeable and therefore no contingent liability exists at the year end.
36. Commitments
£m 2005 2004
Commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 3.1 2.6
37. Related party transactions
Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the company, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not
disclosed in this note. Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below.
Trading transactions
During the year, Group entities entered into the following trading transactions with joint venture and associate companies:
£m 2005 2004
Sale of goods 1.4 1.1
Purchase of goods (0.2) –
Amounts owed by related parties 0.1 0.2
Amounts owed to related parties (0.1) –
Dividends received 1.2 5.0
Investment in joint ventures – 4.3
Management fees (0.1) (0.8)
Sales of goods to related parties were made at the Group’s usual list prices for sales to non-related parties. Goods are bought on the basis of the price lists in
force with non-related parties.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received. No expense has been recognised in the period
for bad or doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
Compensation of key management personnel
The remuneration of directors and other members of key management during the year was as follows:
£m 2005 2004
Remuneration 5.2 4.3
Post-employment benefits 0.8 0.9
Termination benefits 0.1 –
Share-based payments 1.2 0.9
7.3 6.1
The remuneration of directors and key executives is determined by the remuneration committee having regard to the performance of individuals 
and market trends.
The directors of Cobham plc had no material transactions with the company during the year, other than as a result of service agreements. Details of the
directors remuneration are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. on pages 29 to 34.
During the year Mr. R. Soderstrom, a member of the Group’s key management personnel, sold a vehicle to Flight Refuelling Limited, a subsidiary of Cobham
plc, for £40,000.This value was equivalent to that which would have been obtained in an arm’s length transaction.
During 2003, Mr. P. Matthews, a member of the Group’s key management personnel, sold his shares in SeaTel Inc to Chelton Avionics Inc, a subsidiary of
Cobham plc. During 2005, Mr. Matthews received consideration for the shares of US$403,033 (2004: US$146,165) under the terms of the sale. Further
consideration on earn out terms in the sale agreement will continue to be earned until 2008 based on SeaTel Inc performance and his continued
employment.
38. Events after the balance sheet date
The purchase of the equity of Aerodata Flight Inspection GmbH and the minority interest in the Group’s 51% owned subsidiary, Flight Precision Ltd was
agreed subject to various conditions on 11 January 2006.The transaction was completed on 13 February 2006. As stated in Note 30, the Directors regard any
further disclosure of these acquisitions as impractical within these financial statements.
On 8 March 2006 the Group reached a definitive agreement with Esterline Technologies Inc for the disposal of the Group’s countermeasures businesses.This
includes the sale of Wallop Defence Systems Ltd (WDSL) for a maximum total consideration of £43.75m in cash, of which £10m is contingent on the future
performance of WDSL. This disposal was completed on 27 March 2006. Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
74 Cobham plc
39. Subsidiaries
All subsidiary undertakings have been included in the consolidation.The undertakings held at 31 December 2005 which, in the opinion of the directors,
principally affected the results for the year or the net assets of the Group were:
Name of subsidiary Place of incorporation (or registration) and operation Proportion of ownership interest %
Aerospace Systems
Carleton T echnologies Inc USA 100
Carleton Life Support Systems Inc USA 100
Cobham Fluid Systems Limited* England 100
Conax Florida Corporation USA 100
Dräger Aerospace GmbH Germany 100
H Koch & Sons Co USA 100
Flight Refuelling Limited* England 100
Sargent Fletcher Inc USA 100
Wallop Defence Systems Limited England 100
Chelton
ACR Electronics Inc USA 100
Air Précision SA France 100
Artex Aircraft Supplies Inc USA 100
Atlantic Microwave Corporation USA 100
Atlas Composites Limited England 100
Chelton Antennas SA France 100
Chelton Applied Composites AB Sweden 100
Chelton Avionics Inc USA 100
Chelton Avionics (Proprietary) Limited South Africa 100
Chelton (Electrostatics) Limited England 100
Chelton Flight Systems Inc USA 100
Chelton Inc USA 100
Chelton Limited* England 100
Chelton Radomes Limited England 100
Chelton Radomes Witney Limited England 100
Chelton Telecom & Microwave SA France 100
Cobham Composites Limited England 100
Cobham Defence Communications Limited England 100
Comant Industries Inc USA 100
Continental Microwave & Tool Co Inc USA 100
Credowan Limited England 100
Culham Lightning Limited England 100
DTC Communications Inc USA 100
ERA T echnology Limited England 100
European Antennas Limited England 100
Hyper T echnologies SA France 100
Kevlin Corporation USA 100
Label SA France 100
Mastsystem International Oy Finland 100
Micromill Electronics Limited England 100
Nauticast AG Austria 100
NEC Aero SA France 100
Northern Airborne T echnology Limited Canada 99.1
Nurad T echnologies Inc USA 100
Omnipless Manufacturing (Proprietary) Limited* South Africa 100
Orion Electronics Limited Canada 100
Precision Antennas Limited England 100
Racal Antennas Limited England 100
REMEC Defense & Space Inc USA 100 39. Subsidiaries (continued)
Name of subsidiary Place of incorporation (or registration) and operation Proportion of ownership interest %
Salies SA France 100
SeaTel Inc USA 100
Seimac Limited Canada 100
Sivers Lab AB Sweden 100
Slingsby Aviation Limited England 100
Spectronic Denmark A/S Denmark 100
TEAM SA France 98.7
TracStar Systems Inc USA 100
Vector Fields Limited England 100
WA Systems Limited England 100
Flight Operations and Services
Aviation Defense Service SA (joint venture) France 45
FB Heliservices Limited (joint venture) England 50
FBS Limited (joint venture) England 50
Flight Precision Limited England 51
FR Aviation Group Limited* England 100
FR Aviation Limited England 100
FR Aviation Services Limited England 100
National Air Support Pty Limited Australia 100
National Jet Systems Pty Limited Australia 100
Surveillance Australia Pty Limited Australia 100
In the case of the companies marked *, the stated percentage nominal value of issued shares is held by, or by a nominee for, Cobham plc. Otherwise shares
are held by, or by a nominee for, a subsidiary of Cobham plc.
40. Explanation of transition to IFRS
This is the first year that the Group has presented its consolidated financial statements under IFRS.The last financial statements under UK GAAP were for the
year ended 31 December 2004.As the date of transition to IFRS was 1 January 2004, comparative financial information presented in these financial
statements has been re-presented under IFRS.
The Group has taken advantage of the following exemptions under IFRS 1 (First Time Adoption of IFRS):
• Business combinations completed prior to 1 January 2004 have not been restated.
• Opening fair values of fixed assets have been deemed as cost as at 1 January 2004, after reviewing for impairment as appropriate.
• Cumulative translation differences relating to overseas subsidiaries have been set to zero as at 1 January 2004.
• Transition to IAS 32 and 39 has been made effective 1 January 2005 and the 2004 comparatives have not been restated for these standards.
As explained in Note 29 above, errors were discovered during 2005 which have led to the restatement of Net Assets as at 31 December 2003 and the profit
for the year to 31 December 2004.As these adjustments have impacted the transitional UK GAAP position as at 31 December 2003, the comparative IFRS
information presented in these financial statements differs to that previously published by the Group.The impact on the UK GAAP position is as follows:
£m 2004 2003
UK GAAP Net Assets as previously stated on IFRS transition (unaudited) 509.7 456.9
Adjustment to provisions (9.0) (9.7)
Adjustment to corporation tax 2.7 2.9
UK GAAP Net Assets as restated 503.4 450.1
UK GAAP Profit after T axation for the year as previously stated on IFRS transition (unaudited) 85.0
Adjustment to cost of sales (release of provision) 0.7
Adjustment to tax charge for the year (0.2)
UK GAAP Profit after T axation for the year as restated 85.5
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 75 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
40. Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
A reconciliation of the previously published unaudited IFRS position at 31 December 2003 and 2004 to that presented in these financial statements is shown
in the tables below.
Reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2004
Under Effect of
UK GAAP transition Revised
£m Note as restated to IFRS IFRS
Non-Current Assets
Intangible assets a) 345.9 2.6 348.5
Property, plant and equipment b) 224.0 0.9 224.9
Investment properties 4.1 – 4.1
Investments in joint ventures and associates c) 16.5 (4.2) 12.3
Trade and other receivables d) 6.3 (2.4) 3.9
Deferred taxation assets – 0.5 0.5
596.8 (2.6) 594.2
Current Assets
Inventories 190.0 – 190.0
Trade and other receivables 184.5 – 184.5
Available for sale investments 0.1 – 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents f) 106.1 38.3 144.4
480.7 38.3 519.0
Current Liabilities
Borrowings b) (80.4) (38.4) (118.8)
Trade and other payables g) (226.0) 21.1 (204.9)
Corporation tax (30.9) – (30.9)
(337.3) (17.3) (354.6)
Non-Current Liabilities
Borrowings (180.2) – (180.2)
Trade and other payables b) (11.7) (0.8) (12.5)
Deferred taxation liabilities h) (18.4) 18.4 –
Provisions (30.6) – (30.6)
Retirement benefit obligation i) (49.2) (22.1) (71.3)
(290.1) (4.5) (294.6)
Net Assets 450.1 13.9 464.0
Capital and Reserves
Called up share capital 27.8 – 27.8
Share premium account 76.8 – 76.8
Translation reserve j) –––
Revaluation reserve k) 1.7 (1.7) –
Other reserves l) 0.7 2.1 2.8
Retained earnings m) 342.0 13.5 355.5
Total Shareholders’ Equity 449.0 13.9 462.9
Minority interest n) 1.1 – 1.1
Total Equity 450.1 13.9 464.0
I
FRS Net Assets as at 1 January 2004 as previously published (unaudited) 470.8
Net effect of prior year adjustment to UK GAAP position 29 (6.8)
IFRS Net Assets as at 1 January 2004 as restated 464.0
76 Cobham plc 40. Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
Reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2004 (last UK GAAP financial statements)
Under Effect of
UK GAAP transition Revised
£m Note as restated to IFRS IFRS
Non-Current Assets
Intangible assets a) 373.8 31.8 405.6
Property, plant and equipment b) 236.9 0.9 237.8
Investment properties 4.1 – 4.1
Investments in joint ventures and associates c) 17.3 (3.1) 14.2
Trade and other receivables d) 9.6 (2.3) 7.3
641.7 27.3 669.0
Current Assets
Inventories 183.9 – 183.9
Trade and other receivables e) 227.7 (3.6) 224.1
Cash and cash equivalents f) 101.3 74.7 176.0
512.9 71.1 584.0
Current Liabilities
Borrowings b) (116.1) (72.5) (188.6)
Trade and other payables g) (232.7) 23.0 (209.7)
Corporation tax (45.7) 0.3 (45.4)
Provisions – (2.2) (2.2)
(394.5) (51.4) (445.9)
Non-Current Liabilities
Borrowings (151.3) – (151.3)
Trade and other payables b) (10.6) (0.8) (11.4)
Deferred taxation liabilities h) (20.2) 4.1 (16.1)
Provisions (26.9) 2.2 (24.7)
Retirement benefit obligation i) (47.7) (21.4) (69.1)
(256.7) (15.9) (272.6)
Net Assets 503.4 31.1 534.5
Capital and Reserves
Called up share capital 27.9 – 27.9
Share premium account 81.6 – 81.6
Translation reserve j) – (11.4) (11.4)
Revaluation reserve k) 1.7 (1.7) –
Other reserves l) 0.3 4.5 4.8
Retained earnings m) 390.8 39.5 430.3
Total Shareholders’ Equity 502.3 30.9 533.2
Minority interest n) 1.1 0.2 1.3
Total Equity 503.4 31.1 534.5
IFRS Net Assets as at 31 December 2004 as previously published (unaudited) 541.2
Effect of prior year adjustment to UK GAAP position (6.3)
Adjustments to IFRS restatement (0.4)
IFRS Net Assets as at 31 December 2004 as restated 534.5
Notes to the reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2004
An explanation of the key impacts arising from the transition to IFRS is given below:
a) Development costs of £2.6m have been capitalised as at 1 January 2004 under IAS 38 (Intangible Assets) which were expensed to profit and loss under
previously applied UK GAAP.A further £0.7m adjustment was required for the year to 31 December 2004. In addition, the application of IFRS 3 (Business
Combinations) has resulted in a £20.9m increase in the goodwill balance as at 31 December 2004, compared to that previously reported under UK GAAP,
as no amortisation is charged to goodwill under IFRS.Also, the application of IFRS 3 increases intangibles and goodwill as at 31 December 2004 by £11.8m
and the application of IAS 21 results in a decrease of £2.8m on translation.
b) The application of IAS 17 (Leases) has resulted in the reclassification of a number of leases previously held as operating leases, to finance leases and
recognition of corresponding finance lease liabilities.Assets have been recognised with a net book value of £0.9m as at 1 January 2004 and 31 December
2004, with increases in finance lease liabilities reflected in trade and other payables and other non-current creditors (£0.1m and £0.8m respectively as at 1
January 2004 and at 31 December 2004).
c) Accounting for costs associated with borrowing under IAS 23 (Borrowing Costs) has resulted in a net decrease in the value of investments in joint ventures
and associates of £4.2m as at 1 January 2004 and £3.1m as at 31 December 2004.This relates to interest costs associated with long-term aircraft leases.
d) Under IAS 18 (Revenue), other non-current receivables have been discounted by £2.4m as at 1 January 2004 and £2.3m as at 31 December 2004.
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 77 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
40. Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
e) Under IAS 21 (The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates), all non-functional currency current asset balances are required to be recognised at the
rate prevailing at the balance sheet date. Under UK GAAP applicable currency hedges could be applied.
f) Although netted under UK GAAP, application of IFRS to the Group’s banking arrangements results in a gross up of cash and cash equivalents and
overdrafts amounting to £38.3m and £72.4m as at 31 December 2003 and 2004 respectively. The effect of the application of IAS 21 to the value of cash
and cash equivalents as at 31 December 2004 was £2.3m.
g) Dividends are recognised only when authorised for payment under IAS 10 (Events after the Balance Sheet Date).This change from UK GAAP in the
recognition of the year end dividend results in a reduction in dividend liabilities of £22.3m as at 1 January 2004, and £2.2m as at 31 December 2004.
Other standards affecting creditors include IAS 17 (Leases) and IAS 19 (Employee Benefits).
h) The total effect of the application of IAS 12 (Income T axes) and the tax impact of the first time application of other IFRS and reclassifications on transition
to IFRS is a reduction in deferred taxation liabilities of £18.4m as at 1 January 2004 and £4.1m as at 31 December 2004.
i) Under UK GAAP presentation the deferred tax relating to the retirement benefit obligation is netted against the liability whilst under IFRS this tax is
reflected as part of the net deferred tax liability or asset.This presentational change increases the retirement benefit obligation by £21.1m as at 1 January
2004 and £20.4m as at 31 December 2004.Additionally, for both periods, the retirement benefit obligation recognised under IAS 19 (Employee Benefits) is
£1.0m higher than that recognised under the equivalent UK GAAP accounting standard due to the change in equity asset valuation methodology from
mid price to bid price.
j) IAS 21 requires translation differences arising on the results and financial position of subsidiaries which do not report in the Group’s functional currency to
be disclosed separately in a translation reserve.
k) The revaluation reserve which arose under previous GAAP on the revaluation of investment properties is transferred to retained earnings on transition to
IFRS under IAS 40 (Investment Property), as the investment properties are held at deemed cost under IFRS.
l) Accounting for share based payments under IFRS 2 increases the reported Share Option account within Other Reserves as at 31 December 2004 by £2.8m
when compared to UK GAAP. There is also a deferred tax effect relating to potential future tax benefits offset within the retained earnings bringing the
total movement in Other Reserves at 31 December 2004 to £4.5m.
m) The following cumulative adjustments have been made to the retained earnings:
£m 1 January 2004 31 December 2004
– IAS 10 (Dividend Recognition) 22.3 24.6
– IAS 11/23 and IAS 18 (Revenue Recognition) (5.9) (5.9)
– IAS 19 (Employment Costs) (1.5) (2.0)
– IFRS 2 (Share Based Payments) (0.3) (2.4)
– IAS 38 (Capitalisation of Development Costs) 1.9 1.4
– IFRS 3 (Reversal of Goodwill Amortisation) – 20.9
– IFRS 3 (Amortisation of Intangibles Recognised on Acquisitions) – (1.2)
– IAS 21 (Foreign Currency Translation) * –8.6
– IAS 40 (Investment Properties) 1.7 1.7
– Other (0.1) –
– T axation adjustment (4.6) (6.2)
13.5 39.5
* The effects of IAS 21 are largely offset in the translation reserve.
n) Movements in minority interests relate to IAS 10 (Events after the Balance Sheet Date) requirements regarding dividends.
The application of IAS 21, IAS 32 (Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation) and IAS 39 (Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement) 
has resulted in the following adjustments to the opening Balance Sheet as at 1 January 2005:
Effect of transition 
£m 31 December 2004 to IFRS 1 January 2005
Trade and other receivables – non-current 7.3 (2.2) 5.1
Trade and other receivables – current 224.1 3.0 227.1
Cash and cash equivalents 176.0 (7.6) 168.4
Derivative financial instruments – 18.5 18.5
Borrowings (total) (339.9) (0.6) (340.5)
Trade and other payables (209.7) 0.8 (208.9)
Corporation tax (45.4) 0.1 (45.3)
Deferred tax (16.1) (4.7) (20.8)
7.3
78 Cobham plc 40. Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
Reconciliation of profit for the year ended 31 December 2004
Under Effect of Reanalysis of
UK GAAP transition discontinued Revised 
£m Note as restated to IFRS operations IFRS
Continuing Operations
Revenue o) 983.0 (4.0) (146.7) 832.3
Cost of sales p) (713.9) 0.3 120.2 (593.4)
Gross Profit 269.1 (3.7) (26.5) 238.9
Selling and distribution costs q) (55.5) (0.1) 9.5 (46.1)
Administrative expenses r) (83.3) 19.2 10.8 (53.3)
Group Operating Profit 130.3 15.4 (6.2) 139.5
Share of post tax profits of joint ventures and associates s) 2.8 (0.2) – 2.6
133.1 15.2 (6.2) 142.1
Finance income t) 23.2 0.3 (0.1) 23.4
Finance expense (31.2) – 0.1 (31.1)
Profit on Continuing Operations before T axation 125.1 15.5 (6.2) 134.4
T ax on continuing operations u) (39.6) (0.4) 1.9 (38.1)
Profit on Continuing Operations after T axation 85.5 15.1 (4.3) 96.3
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations 4.3 4.3
Profit after T axation for the Y ear 85.5 15.1 – 100.6
IFRS Profit after T axation for the year ended 31 December 2004 as previously published (unaudited) 101.2
Effect of prior year adjustment to UK GAAP position 0.5
Adjustments to IFRS restatement (1.1)
IFRS Profit after T axation attributable to equity shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2004 as restated 100.6
UK GAAP figures as shown above are as restated for the fundamental accounting error as described in Note 29 and as described above.
Notes to the reconciliation of the Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2004
o) Movements in revenue relate to the retranslation of foreign currency sales, as required by IAS 21. In line with IFRS 1, this results only in a reclassification
within the income statement.
p) See ‘o’ above and some impacts from IAS 19 (Employee Benefits) and IAS 38 (Intangible Assets).
q) IAS 19 (Employee Benefits).
r) Primarily the reversal of goodwill under IFRS 3 (Business Combinations) and the reversal of IAS 21 adjustments to revenue, partially offset by the
amortisation of intangibles recognised on acquisition (IFRS 3) and share based payment costs (IFRS 2).
s) Under IAS 1, the share of earnings from joint ventures is required to be reported after tax and interest charges.This change reverses out in the Finance
Income and T axation lines, having no effect on Profit after T ax.
t) Primarily the reversal of the joint venture costs described in note ‘s’ above.There is also a small impact from the accounting change described in Note ‘c’ above.
u) This contains the tax effect of the points noted above as well as an additional tax charge under IAS 12 (Income T axes).
Explanation of material adjustments to the cash flow statements for the year to 31 December 2004
Income taxes of £22.9m paid during the year ended 31 December 2004 are classified as a part of operating cash flows under IFRS, but were included in a
separate category of tax cash flows under UK GAAP.There are no other material differences between the cash flow statement presented under IFRS and the
cash flow statement presented under UK GAAP.
41.Approval of financial statements
The financial statements were approved by the Board of directors and authorised for issue on 7 April 2006.
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 79 Group Financial Record
80 Cobham plc
UK GAAP UK GAAP UK GAAP
2001 2002 2003 IFRS IFRS
£m (Restated) (Restated) (Restated) 2004 2005
Revenue 721.8 734.6 832.6 832.3 970.3
Underlying Profit before T axation 103.5 115.8 135.3 150.0 177.7
Profit on Continuing Operations before T axation 87.5 99.9 119.8 134.4 126.0
T ax on continuing operations (27.7) (28.1) (36.0) (38.1) (35.3)
Profit on Continuing Operations after T axation 59.8 71.8 83.8 96.3 90.7
Profit/(Loss) after taxation from discontinued operations – – (65.3) 4.3 7.4
Profit after T axation for the Y ear 59.8 71.8 18.5 100.6 98.1
Net Assets Employed
Intangible assets 243.9 250.3 345.9 405.6 528.1
Property, plant and equipment (including investment properties) 191.0 194.2 228.1 241.9 206.8
Investments 10.6 14.5 16.5 14.2 14.7
Other non-current assets – – – 7.3 19.8
Current assets 385.0 405.1 487.0 584.0 649.4
830.5 864.1 1,077.5 1,253.0 1,418.8
Current liabilities (318.0) (277.1) (340.2) (445.9) (559.6)
Long-term liabilities (198.5) (242.2) (231.2) (203.5) (191.1)
Net assets excluding pension liabilities 314.0 344.8 506.1 603.6 668.1
Pension liabilities – (46.6) (49.2) (69.1) (81.0)
Net Assets including pension liabilities 314.0 298.2 456.9 534.5 587.1
Financed by
Ordinary share capital 25.2 25.4 27.8 27.9 28.1
Reserves 288.0 272.0 428.0 505.3 557.5
Shareholders’ Funds 313.2 297.4 455.8 533.2 585.6
Minority interest 0.8 0.8 1.1 1.3 1.5
Net Assets 314.0 298.2 456.9 534.5 587.1
Pence
Dividend per ordinary share 2.32 2.56 2.82 2.90 3.19
Earnings per ordinary share – underlying (IFRS – continuing) 7.54 8.64 9.35 9.12 10.58
Earnings per ordinary share – basic (IFRS – continuing) 5.94 7.07 1.72 8.61 8.05
Earnings per ordinary share – fully diluted (IFRS – continuing) 5.88 7.02 1.71 8.55 8.01
Net assets per ordinary share 31.1 29.4 41.2 48.0 52.4
£m
Market capitalisation 1,086 1,035 1,295 1,381 1,900
Notes:
IFRS underlying profit before taxation excludes exceptional gains and losses on disposal of undertakings, amortisation of intangible fixed assets recognised on acquisition and
unrealised changes in fair value of currency derivative instruments.
UK GAAP Underlying Profit before T axation excludes amortisation of goodwill, integration costs and exceptional items.
In 2001, long-term liabilities and reserves were restated to reflect the impact of adopting FRS 19 (Deferred T ax) in 2002.
In 2002, current assets, long-term liabilities, pension liabilities and profit/(loss) retained have been restated to reflect the adoption of FRS 17 (Retirement Benefits).Years prior to
2002 have not been restated for the adoption of FRS 17.
Income statement figures reported under UK GAAP include discontinued operations. Under IFRS the profit/(loss) for discontinued operations is disclosed separately below profit on
continuing operations after taxation. Independent Auditors’ Report to 
the Members of Cobham plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Cobham plc
for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Balance Sheet,
the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, the Reconciliation of
Movements in Shareholders’ Funds, the related notes and the accounting
policies set out in the statement of Accounting Policies.We have also audited
the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as
having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Cobham
plc for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’
Remuneration Report and the parent company financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland).This report, including the opinion, has been
prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance
with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or 
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior
consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial
statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to
be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 1985.We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors’ Report is not
consistent with the parent company financial statements, if the company
has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information
specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is
not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider
whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial
statements.The other information comprises only the Chairman’s
Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review, the Business Review, the Financial
Review, the statement on Corporate Social Responsibility, the statement on
strategy, the statement on new structure, the Directors’ Report, the
statement on Corporate Governance, and the unaudited part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report.We consider the implications for our report
if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements. Our
responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the
directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and
of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the company’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information 
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with
sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or
other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to
be audited.
Opinion 
In our opinion:
• the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice,
of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 December 2005; and 
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
Southampton 
7 April 2006 
Notes:
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the Cobham plc website is the
responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does
not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors
accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the
financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 81 Accounting Policies
Accounting Convention
These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost
convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain tangible fixed assets,
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting
standards (UK GAAP), as modified by the revaluation of certain fixed
assets in the UK. Compliance with SSAP 19 (Accounting for Investment
Properties) requires departure from the requirements of the Companies
Act 1985 relating to depreciation and an explanation of the departure is
given in the tangible fixed assets accounting policy note below.
Changes in accounting policies
Cobham plc (the company) has adopted FRS 20 (Share Based Payment),
FRS 21 (Events after the Balance Sheet Date), FRS 23 (Effects of Changes
in Foreign Exchange Rates) and FRS 26 (Financial Instruments:
Measurement).The adoption of each of these standards represents a
change in accounting policy and the comparative figures have been
restated accordingly except where the exemption to restate comparatives
has been taken. Details of the effect of the prior year adjustments are
given in Note 8.
Turnover
Turnover is measured at the fair value of the right to consideration and is
generally recognised when services are delivered and excludes value added
tax and other sales taxes.
Pensions
The company and its subsidiaries operate a number of defined benefit 
and defined contribution schemes.
Defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the scheme held
separately from those of the company, in separate trustee administered
funds. Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are
measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and
discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high
quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the scheme
liabilities.The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are
updated at each balance sheet date. These are multi-employer schemes
including employees of other Group companies. It is not considered
possible to allocate scheme assets and liabilities between the various
companies and, accordingly, the schemes are accounted for as though
they were defined contribution schemes.
For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the profit and
loss account in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement
benefits is the contributions payable in the year. Differences between
contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are
shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Deferred T axation
Deferred tax is recognised on a full provision basis on all timing differences
which have originated, but not reversed, at the balance sheet date
calculated at rates of tax expected to apply, based on current tax rates and
law.Timing differences represent accumulated differences between the
company’s taxable profit and its financial profit and arise primarily from
payments to the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes and the
difference between accelerated capital allowances and depreciation.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have not been discounted.
T angible Fixed Assets
Plant and machinery fixed assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis 
to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives which
range from three to five years. Investment properties are not depreciated.
In accordance with SSAP 19, investment properties are held at open
market value.Any aggregate surplus or deficit on revaluation is transferred
to a revaluation reserve, and no provision is made for depreciation of
freehold properties.This departure from the requirements of the
Companies Act 1985, which requires all properties to be depreciated,
is, in the opinion of the directors, necessary for the financial statements 
to show a true and fair view in accordance with applicable accounting
standards.
The depreciation (which would, had the provisions of the Act been
followed, have reduced profit for the year) is only one of the factors
reflected in the annual valuation and the amount attributable to this
factor cannot reasonably be separately identified or quantified.
Investment in group undertakings
Investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in value.
Operating Leases
Operating lease payments for assets leased from third parties are charged
to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Provisions
A provision is recognised when the company has a present legal or
constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that
settlement will be required of an amount that can be reliably estimated.
Provisions for contingent consideration are recognised when it is
considered probable that the conditions attaching to potential payment
will be met.
Long-term liabilities and provisions are discounted when the impact
is material.
Share Capital
Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on a
specific date or at the option of the preference shareholders or if dividend
payments are not discretionary. Dividends on preference share capital
classified as liabilities are recognised in the profit and loss account as
dividend expense.
82 Cobham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 83
Foreign Currencies
The functional currency of the company is sterling. Transactions in
currencies other than the functional currency are translated at the
exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and
liabilities denoted in non-functional currencies are retranslated at the
exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange
differences arising are taken to the profit and loss account.
In order to manage exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the
company enters into forward contracts and options which are accounted
for as derivative financial instruments.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 
Receipts and payments on derivative financial instruments are recognised
on an accruals basis, over the life of the instruments. Finance costs
associated with debt issuances are charged to the profit and loss account
over the life of the instruments. Derivatives are initially recognised 
at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are
subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The company’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of
changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.The
company uses foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swap
contracts to reduce these exposures.The company does not use derivative
financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Hedge accounting principles are used for interest rate swaps. For interest
rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges, movements in fair value are
held in equity until such time as the underlying transactions crystallise.At
that time, amounts held in equity will be recycled to the profit and loss
account. Movements in the fair value of interest rate swaps designated as
fair value hedges are recognised through the profit and loss account.
The company manages foreign currency exposures on a macro basis and
has chosen not to apply hedge accounting to these instruments.Thus
contracts which give rise to an asset or liability are recognised at fair value
at the balance sheet date and any change in the fair value is recognised in
the profit and loss account.
Share Based Remuneration
For grants made under the company’s share based remuneration schemes,
amounts which reflect the fair value of options awarded as at the time of
grant are charged to the profit and loss account.The valuation of the
options utilises a methodology based on the Black-Scholes model,
modified where required to allow for the impact of market related
performance criteria.
The company has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of FRS 20
in respect of equity settled awards and has applied FRS 20 only to equity
settled awards granted after 7 November 2002. Parent Company Balance Sheet (under UK GAAP)
As at 31 December 2005
84 Cobham plc
2004 2004
£m Note 2005 2005 Restated Restated
Fixed Assets
T angible assets 1 7.2 4.3
Investments in Group undertakings 2 726.4 724.0
Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments 10 4.5 –
738.1 728.3
Current Assets
Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments 10 1.4 –
Debtors: Amounts falling due within one year 3 429.8 236.5
Cash at bank and in hand 154.3 3.1
585.5 239.6
Creditors:Amounts falling due within one year
Borrowings 4 (365.5) (129.8)
Other creditors 4 (279.8) (161.8)
Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments 10 (3.3) –
(648.6) (291.6)
Net Current Liabilities (63.1) (52.0)
Total Assets less Current Liabilities 675.0 676.3
Creditors:Amounts falling due after more than one year
Borrowings 5 (134.4) (125.0)
Other creditors 5 (3.4) (3.4)
Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments 10 (2.0) –
Provisions for Liabilities and Charges 6 (9.6) (0.4)
525.6 547.5
Capital and Reserves including non equity interests
Called up share capital 7 28.1 27.9
Share premium account 8 87.5 81.6
Special reserve 8 43.6 43.6
Revaluation reserve 8 2.9 –
Other reserves 8 7.4 3.2
Profit and loss account 8 356.1 391.2
Shareholders’ Funds 525.6 547.5
Approved by a duly appointed and authorised committee of the Board on 7 April 2006 and signed on its behalf by:
Gordon Page
Warren T ucker
Registered number in England: 30470 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds
For the year ended 31 December 2005
Statement of T otal Recognised Gains and Losses
For the year ended 31 December 2005
2004
£m Note 2005 Restated
(Loss)/Profit Attributable to Shareholders (10.1) 36.7
Fair value gain on cash flow hedge 8 1.7 –
Movement on deferred tax relating to cash flow hedge 8 (0.5) –
Revaluation of investment properties 1 2.9 –
Total recognised (losses)/gains relating to the year (6.0) 36.7
Prior year adjustment:
Impact of adopting FRS 20 8 2.7 –
Impact of adopting FRS 26 10 10.8 –
Total (losses)/gains recognised since last annual report 7.5 36.7
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 85
2004
£m Note 2005 Restated
(Loss)/Profit Attributable to Shareholders (10.1) 36.7
Dividends 11 (35.8) (32.3)
(Loss)/retained profit for the year 8 (45.9) 4.4
Issue of shares 7 0.2 0.1
Premium on issue of shares 8 5.9 4.8
Revaluation of investment properties 1 2.9 –
Impact of adopting new standards for the current year:
Adjustments to opening shareholders’ funds at 1 January 2005 on adoption of FRS 26 8,10 10.8 –
Hedging Reserve recorded on adoption of FRS 26 8 1.2 –
Adjustment in respect of employee share schemes 8 3.0 2.3
Net (decrease)/increase in shareholders’ funds (21.9) 11.6
Shareholders’ funds at 1 January* 547.5 535.9
Shareholders’ funds at 31 December 525.6 547.5
* Shareholders’ funds at 1 January 2005 were previously stated as £532.3m before prior year adjustments of £15.2m as detailed in Note 8.
Profit attributable to shareholders
In accordance with the concession granted under Section 230(1) of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss account of Cobham plc has not been
separately presented in these financial statements.There is no material difference between the results disclosed and the results on an unmodified historical
cost basis.
Cash flow statement
In accordance with the exemption under FRS 1, the company’s cash flow statement has not been separately presented in these financial statements. Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
86 Cobham plc
1.T angible Fixed Assets
Investment Plant and
£m properties machinery Total
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2005 4.1 0.6 4.7
Additions – 0.1 0.1
Disposals – (0.2) (0.2)
Surplus on revaluation 2.9 – 2.9
At 31 December 2005 7.0 0.5 7.5
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2005 – 0.4 0.4
Eliminated on disposals – (0.2) (0.2)
Charge for the year – 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 2005 – 0.3 0.3
Net book amount
At 31 December 2005 7.0 0.2 7.2
At 1 January 2005 4.1 0.2 4.3
A fair value of £7.0m has been ascribed to the investment property.This is based on an estimated market price provided by the agent who manages the
property on the company’s behalf.The agent is experienced in marketing such properties in the location and in the opinion of the directors forms a reasonable
basis for the valuation. No formal valuation has been completed.
The parent company had no capital commitments at 31 December 2005 (2004: £nil).
2. Investments in group undertakings
£m Shares Options Total
At 31 December 2004 721.3 – 721.3
Impact on adoption of FRS 20 –2.7 2.7
At 31 December 2004 as restated 721.3 2.7 724.0
Options granted under FRS 20 – 2.4 2.4
At 31 December 2005 721.3 5.1 726.4
The directors consider that the carrying value of investments approximates to the fair value.
A list of subsidiaries of the company is provided in Note 39 of the Group financial statements.
3. Debtors
£m Note 2005 2004
Amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 419.9 232.2
Other debtors – 0.1
Prepayments and accrued income 3.3 4.2
Deferred tax 12 6.6 –
429.8 236.5
The directors consider that the carrying value of debtors approximates to the fair value. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 87
4. Creditors:Amounts falling due within one year
£m 2005 2004
Borrowings
Bank loans and overdrafts 362.6 124.6
Senior notes 2.9 5.2
365.5 129.8
Further details concerning borrowings are given in Note 5.
£m 2005 2004
Other creditors
Trade creditors 5.5 2.0
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 267.4 148.7
T axation payable (UK Corporation T ax) 0.7 6.6
Payroll and other taxes, including social security 1.0 0.5
Accruals and deferred income 5.2 4.0
279.8 161.8
In July 2005, a new £300m revolving multi-currency credit facility was entered into to replace an existing £150m facility and the US$200m bridge facility put
in place to finance the REMEC acquisition. This facility, arranged for general corporate purposes, is for five years, with extensions of up to two years at the
option of the banks. Interest is payable at the drawn currencies’ applicable LIBOR rate plus margin.The loan agreement contains no provisions for charges over
Group assets and includes both financial and non-financial covenants. As at 31 December 2005, £241.6m had been drawn on this facility.
The directors consider that the carrying value of creditors approximates to the fair value.
5. Creditors:Amounts falling due after more than one year
£m Note 2005 2004
Borrowings
Senior notes 134.4 125.0
Preference shares 7––
£m 2005 2004
Other creditors
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 3.4 3.4
£m 2005 2004
Borrowings
Senior notes are repayable as follows:
Between one and two years 2.9 2.6
Between two and five years 34.2 33.9
After five years 97.3 88.5
134.4 125.0
Senior notes, repayable on maturity, were issued in October 2002.The facility comprises two series of notes; one for US$55m which has a bullet repayment
after seven years and the other for US$170m which has a bullet repayment after ten years.The notes carry a fixed interest rate of 5.14% in respect of the
seven year notes and a rate of 5.58% in respect of the ten year notes.These fixed rates have been swapped into rates that vary with LIBOR.
Senior notes, repayable by instalments, were issued in March 1996 and comprise two series of notes for US$25m, one with an average life of seven years and
the other an average life of ten years. Repayments totalling US$35m have been made to date.The notes carry a fixed interest rate of 6.28% for the seven
year notes and 6.42% for the ten year notes.
The directors consider that the carrying value of creditors approximates to the fair value. Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
88 Cobham plc
6. Provisions for liabilities and charges
£m Deferred tax Other Total
At 1 January 2005 0.4 – 0.4
Impact of adopting new standard – FRS 26 (Financial Instruments) 4.6 – 4.6
At 1 January 2005 as restated 5.0 – 5.0
Charge/(credit) to profit and loss account (3.9) 8.0 4.1
Charge to reserves 0.5 – 0.5 
At 31 December 2005 1.6 8.0 9.6
Other provisions
Other provisions include provisions recognised in connection with the disposal of the Fluid and Air group and are likely to unwind over a period of more than
one year.The amounts have been determined based on the directors’ current estimates of likely outcomes.
7. Called-up share capital
£m 2005 2004
Authorised
Equity
1,479,200,000 (2004: 1,479,200,000) ordinary shares of par value 2.5p each 37.0 37.0
Non Equity
20,000 (2004: 20,000) 6% second cumulative preference shares of £1 – –
Allotted, issued and fully paid
Equity
1,122,859,490 (2004: 1,116,069,050) 2.5p ordinary shares 28.1 27.9
Non Equity
19,700 (2004: 19,700) 6% second cumulative preference shares of £1 – –
The company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. On 8 July 2005, the ordinary shares of the company were subdivided such
that each existing ordinary share was replaced by ten new ordinary shares.The new subdivision of share capital has been made to improve liquidity in the
trading of Cobham plc shares. The numbers of shares above have been restated to reflect this change.
During the year 2,861,600 (2004: 351,947) ordinary shares were issued in connection with the Cobham Savings Related Share Option Scheme and 3,928,840
(2004: 284,168) were issued in connection with the executive share option schemes.The nominal value of such shares was £0.2m (2004: £0.1m) and the cash
consideration received net of costs was £6.1m (2004: £4.9m).
The 6% second cumulative preference shareholders are entitled to receive a fixed cumulative preference dividend at the rate of 6% per annum in priority 
to the payment of dividends on the ordinary shares. In addition, on a return of assets on the liquidation or otherwise of the company, the assets available
for distribution are to be applied first in repaying to the holders of the 6% second cumulative preference shares the amounts paid up on their shares. On 
a show of hands every member holding 6% second cumulative preference shares who is present in person has one vote and on a poll every member has
one vote for every £1 in nominal amount of the shares of which he is the holder.The 6% second cumulative preference shares are non-redeemable and
classified as borrowings.
8. Reserves
Share Special Revaluation Hedging Share Option Profit and 
£m Note Premium Account Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Loss Account T otal
At 31 December 2004 as previously reported 81.6 43.6 – – 0.3 378.9 504.4
Prior year adjustment
– FRS 20 (Share based payment) 2 – – – – 2.9 (0.2) 2.7
– FRS 21 (Post balance sheet events) – –––– 12.5 12.5
At 31 December 2004 as restated 81.6 43.6 – – 3.2 391.2 519.6
Impact of adopting FRS 26 (Financial Instruments) 10 – –––– 10.8 10.8
At 1 January 2005 81.6 43.6 – – 3.2 402.0 530.4
Loss for the year ––––– (45.9) (45.9)
Premium on issue of shares 5.9 ––––– 5.9
Increase in fair value of cash flow hedging derivatives 10 – – – 1.7 – – 1.7
Deferred tax movement on increase in fair value 
of cash flow hedging derivatives – – – (0.5) – – (0.5)
Charge to reserves for the year – – – – 3.0 – 3.0
Revaluation of investment properties 1 – – 2.9 – – – 2.9
At 31 December 2005 87.5 43.6 2.9 1.2 6.2 356.1 497.5
Reserves are wholly attributable to equity interests.
The share option reserve relates to provisions made in accordance with FRS 20 for shares allocated under the company share option schemes.
The hedging reserve reflects movements in fair values of cash flow hedge derivatives. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 89
8. Reserves (continued)
Prior year adjustments and impact of new standards
The prior year adjustment relates to the implementation of FRS 20 (Share based payment) and FRS 21 (Post balance sheet events) while FRS 26 (Financial
instruments) does not affect comparatives and is only applied to the current period.
These prior year adjustments may be summarised as follows:
Share Option Profit and 
£m Reserve Loss Account T otal
FRS 20 (Share based payment)
Adjustment to opening balance as at 1 January 2004 0.9 (0.1) 0.8
Adjustment for the year ended 31 December 2004 2.3 (0.2) 2.1
UITF 17
Adjustment to opening balance as at 1 January 2004 (0.7) 0.5 (0.2)
Adjustment for the year ended 31 December 2004 0.4 (0.4) 0
Total adjustment to Shareholders’ funds as at 1 January 2005 2.9 (0.2) 2.7
FRS 21 (Post balance sheet events)
Adjustment to opening balance as at 1 January 2004 – 11.2 11.2
Adjustment for the year ended 31 December 2004 – 1.3 1.3
Total adjustment to Shareholders’ funds as at 1 January 2005 – 12.5 12.5
Total prior year adjustment 15.2
The adjustments resulting from the adoption of FRS 21 relate to the timing of recognition of dividends.
FRS 26 has resulted in derivative instruments being recorded in the financial statements, with a net credit impact of £10.8m to the profit and loss account at
1 January 2005, and a charge to the profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2005 of £9.8m net of tax.
9. Share-based payments
Equity-settled share option scheme
The company operates two incentive schemes for certain senior executives, the Cobham Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and the Cobham Executive Share
Option Scheme (ESOS).
Under the LTIP scheme awards are made at nil cost, vesting over a three year performance period based on the company’s Total Shareholder Return relative to
that of a comparator group and also conditional upon the company’s EPS growth over the same period.
Under the ESOS, options are granted at a price not less than the market value of the company’s ordinary shares on, or shortly before the date the options are
granted. Exercise is conditional upon the company’s EPS growth over a three year period.
Further details of these schemes can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 34 of the Group financial statements.
In addition, entry to the Cobham Savings Related Share Option Scheme (ShareSave), is available to all employees of participating subsidiaries. Employees may
purchase the company’s shares at 80% of the closing market price on the date of grant during a two-week period each year, up to a maximum contribution
value of £3,000 in any one year.The shares so purchased are generally placed in the employees’ share savings plan and will only be released to employees who
remain in the company’s employment for a period of three years from the date of grant. Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2005 2004
LTIP Number of share options Number of share options
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 3,383,730 2,481,630
Granted during the year 1,526,990 1,655,370 
Forfeited during the year (430,410) – 
Exercised during the year (93,014) – 
Expired during the year (519,710) (753,270)
Outstanding at the end of the year 3,867,586 3,383,730 
Exercisable at the end of the year – –  Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
9. Share-based payments (continued)
The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.53 years (2004: 1.75 years). During 2005, options were
granted on 11 May with an estimated fair value of £0.551. In 2004, options were granted on 28 April and 20 September.The estimated fair values of the
options granted on those dates were £0.883 and £0.815 respectively.
These fair values were calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model modified by a Monte Carlo simulation to determine the likely impact of market
related performance conditions.The inputs into the model were as follows:
2005 2004
Weighted average share price £1.335 £1.359
Weighted average exercise price Nil N/A
Expected volatility 22% 25%
Expected life 3 Y ears 3 Y ears
Risk free rate 4.4% 4.8%
Expected dividend yield 2.3% 2.1%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the company’s share price over the previous three years.The expected life used in
the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
2005 2004
Number of Weighted average Number of Weighted average
ESOS share options exercise price share options exercise price
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 16,106,770 1.108 14,776,639 1.003 
Granted during the year 4,728,927 1.432 4,267,410 1.350 
Forfeited during the year (972,850) 1.248 (78,819) 0.993 
Exercised during the year (3,781,420) 0.984 (2,858,460) 0.922 
Expired during the year – – – – 
Outstanding at the end of the year 16,081,427 1.224 16,106,770 1.109
Exercisable at the end of the year 4,633,950 0.941 6,317,940 0.975 
Share options were exercised throughout the year and the average share price was £1.444 (2004: £1.321).The options outstanding at the end of the year have
a weighted average remaining contractual life of 7.75 years (2004: 7.69 years), exercise prices range from £0.580 to £1.624. In 2005, options were granted on
11 May, 19 October and 9 December.The estimated fair values of the options granted on those dates are £0.317, £0.350 and £0.400 respectively. In 2004,
options were granted on 16 June, 20 September and 13 October.The estimated fair values of the options granted on those dates are £0.389, £0.368 and
£0.364 respectively.
These fair values were calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.The inputs into the model were as follows:
2005 2004
Weighted average share price 1.404 1.354 
Weighted average exercise price 1.432 1.350 
Expected volatility 26% 28%
Expected life 5 Y ears 5 Y ears
Risk free rate 4.4% 4.9%
Expected dividend yield 2.1% 2.1%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the company’s share price over the previous five years.The expected life used in
the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
2005 2004
Number of Weighted average Number of Weighted average
ShareSave share options exercise price share options exercise price
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 15,772,490 0.886 18,247,780 0.787 
Granted during the year 2,125,123 1.240 4,421,000 1.076 
Forfeited during the year (567,650) 0.935 (615,990) 0.835 
Exercised during the year (905,298) 0.713 (5,551,330) 0.693 
Expired during the year (256,340) 0.931 (728,970) 0.844 
Outstanding at the end of the year 16,168,325 0.939 15,772,490 0.896 
Exercisable at the end of the year – – – – 
Share options were exercised throughout the year and the average share price was £1.444 (2004: £1.321).The options outstanding at the end of the year have
a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.27 years (2004: 2.64 years), exercise prices range from £0.691 to £1.240. In 2005, options were granted on
1 February with estimated fair values of £0.405 (three year life), £0.487 (five year life) and £0.549 (seven year life). In 2004, options were granted on 1 February
with estimated fair values of £0.355 (three year life), £0.410 (five year life) and £0.465 (seven year life).
90 Cobham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 91
9. Share-based payments (continued)
These fair values were calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.The inputs into the model were as follows:
2005 2004
Weighted average share price £1.382 £1.184
Weighted average exercise price £1.076 £0.939
Expected volatility 23%-31% 27%-31%
Expected life 3-7 Y ears 3-7 Y ears
Risk free rate 4.5% 4.7%
Expected dividend yield 2.2% 2.3%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the company’s share price over the previous three to seven years, dependant on
the life of the option.The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability,
exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The company recognised total expenses of £0.5m (2004: £0.4m) related to equity-settled share based payment transactions during the year.
10. Derivative financial instruments
Currency translation 
£m Cash flow hedge Fair value hedge derivatives Total
Movement in fair values
Initial application of new accounting standards – 0.9 15.4 16.3
Fair value gain/(loss) in period through profit and loss account – (3.4) (14.0) (17.4)
Fair value gain/(loss) in period through Reserves 1.7 – – 1.7
Fair value at 31 December 2005 1.7 (2.5) 1.4 0.6
Balance Sheet analysis
Derivative financial instruments – non-current assets 1.3 – 3.2 4.5
Derivative financial instruments – current assets 0.4 – 1.0 1.4
Derivative financial instruments – current liabilities – (0.5) (2.8) (3.3)
Derivative financial instruments – non-current liabilities – (2.0) – (2.0)
Fair value at 31 December 2005 1.7 (2.5) 1.4 0.6
The Group has applied the transitional provisions of FRS 26 and, accordingly, has not recorded fair values for any derivatives held as at 31 December 2004.
Effect of initial application of new accounting standards
Accounting for currency instruments – 0.9 15.4 16.3
Hedge accounting – (0.9) – (0.9)
– – 15.4 15.4
Deferred tax impact – – (4.6) (4.6)
Net impact to Total Equity at start of period – – 10.8 10.8
Fair value derivatives are accounted for using hedge accounting. Movements in fair values are matched against the corresponding liabilities or reflected in
reserves as appropriate.
Currency instruments are not accounted for using hedge accounting and movements in fair values are reflected in the profit and loss account.
The fair values of the currency and interest rate derivatives are established using valuation techniques, primarily discounting cash flows, based on assumptions
that are supported by observable market prices or rates.
11. Dividends
£m 2005 2004
Dividends on ordinary shares
Final dividend per share for the year ended 31 December 2004 (2004: 31 December 2003) 2.18p 1.98p
Interim dividend per share for the year ended 31 December 2005 (2004: 31 December 2004) 1.01p 0.92p
Total final dividend authorised 24.5 22.0
Total interim dividend authorised 11.3 10.3
Total dividend authorised 35.8 32.3
In addition to the above, the directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2005 of 2.4p per share which will absorb
an estimated £27.0m of shareholders’ funds.This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included 
as a liability in these financial statements. If authorised, it will be paid on 7 July 2006 to shareholders who are on the register of members as at 2 June 2006. Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
92 Cobham plc
In addition, the company has intra-group dividends receivable of £13.0m (2004: £11.8m) that are proposed but not authorised and which are not included in
the financial statements under FRS 21.
12. Deferred T axation
£m Note 2005 2004
Deferred tax assets 6.6 –
Deferred tax liabilities 6 (1.6) (0.4)
5.0 (0.4)
£m 2005 2004
The amount provided represents:
Accelerated capital allowances (0.7 ) –
Other timing differences 5.7 (0.4)
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 5.0 (0.4)
Movements in deferred tax assets are as follows:
£m
At 1 January 2005 –
Prior year adjustment – FRS 20 (Share based payment) 0.1
At 1 January 2005 as restated 0.1
Credit to profit and loss account 6.5
At 31 December 2005 6.6
The deferred tax assets relate primarily to deferred taxation on pension payments, and are expected to reverse over a period of up to four years.
13. Employees
£m 2005 2004
Wages and salaries 3.2 2.8
Social security costs 0.4 0.4
Other pension costs 0.8 1.8
Share based payments (FRS 20) 0.5 0.4
4.9 5.4
Number 2005 2004
Average number of employees:
Administration 30 22
Disclosures in respect of directors’ emoluments can be found in the Directors' Remuneration report on pages 29 to 34 of the Group financial statements.
Disclosure in respect of key management emoluments can be found in Note 37 to the Group financial statements.
Defined contribution schemes
The contributions paid by the company are accounted for as a defined contribution scheme, as the company is unable to identify its share of the underlying
assets and liabilities of the scheme. The cost of contributions to the Group scheme for 2005 amounted to £0.8m (2004: £1.8m) of normal funding and 
a £24.0m special contribution in order to reduce the scheme deficit. Contributions to current benefits accruals represent 18.7% of pensionable salary 
(2004: 18.8%). No contributions were outstanding at the end of 2004 or 2005.
14. Contingent Liabilities
As at 31 December 2005, the company had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and contractual performance guarantees and other matters arising in the
ordinary course of business entered into for, or on behalf of, certain Group undertakings. It is not expected that any material liability will arise in respect thereof.
Reference should be made to Note 35 of the Group Financial Statements.
15. Related Party Transactions
Directors
The directors of Cobham plc had no material transactions with the company during the year, other than as a result of service agreements. Details of the
directors’ remuneration are disclosed in the remuneration report. Exemption has been taken under FRS 8 from disclosing related party transactions for the 
parent company.
16. Foreign Exchange
The impact of foreign exchange to the profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2005 is £0.9m gain (2004: £2.8m loss). Shareholder Information
Registrars
Enquiries concerning shareholdings or dividends should, in the first instance,
be addressed to the company’s registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars,The
Causeway,Worthing,West Sussex BN99 6DA (telephone: +44 (0)870 600
3970). Shareholders should promptly notify the registrars of any change of
address or other particulars.
The registrars provide a range of shareholders’ services on-line.The portfolio
service provides access to information on investments including balance
movements, indicative share prices and information on recent dividends and
also enables address and mandate details to be amended on-line. For further
information and practical help on transferring shares or updating your
details, please visit www.shareview.co.uk.The share dealing service enables
shares to be sold by UK shareholders by telephone or over the internet. For
telephone sales please call 0870 850 0852 between 8.30 a.m. and 4.30 p.m.
For internet sales please visit www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
Registered Office
Brook Road,Wimborne, Dorset BH21 2BJ
Telephone: +44 (0) 1202 882020
Facsimile: +44 (0) 1202 840523
Internet: www.cobham.com
Registered in England No. 30470
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)
The company has introduced corporate sponsored ISAs through The Share
Centre Limited, an independent stockbroker. Further information may be
obtained from The Share Centre Limited on +44 (0)1296 414141 or by
writing to The Share Centre Limited, PO Box 2000,Aylesbury, Bucks HP21
8ZB.Alternatively, details can be requested via e-mail: cobham@share.co.uk.
Capital Gains T ax
For the information of shareholders who held Cobham plc ordinary shares 
on 31 March 1982, the market value, adjusted for capitalisation and rights
issues, of the company’s ordinary shares on that date for capital gains tax
purposes, unadjusted for the share sub-division of July 2005, was 86.02p.
Financial Calendar
Annual general meeting 7 June 2006
Final dividend 7 July 2006
Interim results 12 September 2006
Interim dividend December 2006
Analysis of shareholders
(a)At 31 December 2005, 5,507 ordinary shareholders were on the register compared with 5,179 at 31 December 2004.
(b)Analysis of ordinary shareholders on the register at 31 December 2005:
Percentage Percentage
Number of registered Number of of ordinary
registered holders ordinary shares shares
holders % held %
Size of holding
Up to 1,000 1,619 29.40 759,323 0.07
1,001 – 10,000 2,514 45.65 10,063,543 0.90
10,001 – 50,000 746 13.55 16,352,932 1.46
50,001 – 250,000 302 5.48 35,086,070 3.12
250,001 – 1,000,000 155 2.81 81,462,190 7.25
1,000,001 and above 171 3.11 979,135,432 87.20
5,507 100.00 1,122,859,490 100.00
Category
Private persons 4,012 72.85 69,227,037 6.17
Nominees 1,382 25.10 1,022,580,110 91.07
Insurance companies – 0.00 – 0.00
Pension funds 2 0.04 2,060 0.00
Other corporate bodies 111 2.02 31,050,283 2.77
5,507 100.00 1,122,859,490 100.00
Source: Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Design and production:Addison Corporate Marketing Ltd 
Print: Royle Corporate Print  Cobham. Six Divisions. One Standard.
Cobham plc
Brook Road
Wimborne
Dorset
England
BH21 2BJ
T: +44 (0)1202 882 020
F: +44 (0)1202 840 523
www.cobham.com
