 Cobham plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2007
The most important  
thing we build is trust
Cobham plc
Brook Road
Wimborne
Dorset
England 
BH21 2BJ
T: +44 (0)1202 882 020
F: +44 (0)1202 840 523
www.cobham.com
Cobham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Cobham’s products and services have been  
at the heart of sophisticated military and civil 
systems for more than 70 years, keeping 
people safe, improving communications and 
enhancing the capability of land, sea, air and 
space platforms. The Group has four divisions 
now employing more than ten thousand 
people on five continents, with customers  
and partners in over 100 countries.  
Corporate governance 
26 Board of Directors
28 Directors’ report
31 Corporate governance
35 Directors’ remuneration report 
42 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Group financial statements
43 Independent auditors’ report
44 Accounting policies
50 Consolidated income statement 
51 Consolidated balance sheet 
52 Consolidated cash flow statement 
53  Consolidated statement of recognised income  
and expense
54 Notes to the Group financial statements 
90 Group financial record 
Parent company financial statements
91 Independent auditors’ report
92 Accounting policies
94 Parent company balance sheet
95 Statement of total recognised gains and losses
95 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
96 Notes to the parent company financial statements
103 Shareholder information 
Business overview 
1 Highlights 2007
2 Cobham at a glance
4 Chairman’s statement
5  Chief Executive’s review
8 Strategy
Business review 
10 Cobham Avionics and Surveillance
12 Cobham Defence Electronic Systems
14 Cobham Mission Systems
16 Cobham Aviation Services
18 Financial review
23  Corporate responsibility
Front cover image: Cobham provides Non  
Line of Sight Digital Communication Solutions 
for Unmanned Vehicles such as the HD-1.  
Photo courtesy of Remotec Inc, a subsidiary  
of the Northrop Grumman Corporation.
Designed and produced by Addison Corporate Marketing Ltd
Printed by Royle Print
The paper used in this report is produced from 50% recovered 
waste and 50% virgin fibre. The pulp is bleached using an 
Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) process. The Forest Stewardship 
Council have given this paper their Mixed Sources accreditation, 
acknowledging it has been produced from recycled fibre, well 
managed forests and other controlled sources. The paper mill 
and printer are certified to the ISO14001 environmental 
management standard.
This report is fully recyclable – when you have finished with it, 
please pass it on to other interested parties or dispose of it in 
your recycled paper waste.  	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Dividend
pence
07
4.50
3.75
3.41
06
05
Earnings per Ordinary Share – underlying
pence
07
13.09
11.66
10.58
06
05
Analysis of total revenue 
£m
07
1,061 451 610
486 530
587 503
1,016
1,090
06
05
Non-military
Military (Technology Divisions)
Highlights	 2007
	 	Order	 book	 up	 to	 £1.8bn	 with	 increased	 	 order	 intake	 in	 all	 Technology	 Divisions
	 	Technology	 Divisions	 achieve	 13.2%	 organic	 revenue	 growth	 in	 healthy	 Aerospace	 and	 	 Defence	 markets
	 	Robust	 Group	 margin	 after	 increase	 in	 company	 funded	 Research	 and	 Development	 to	 6.3%	 of	 Technology	 Division	 Revenues	 	 	Underlying	 EPS	 growth	 of	 12.3%
	 	US$750m	 investment	 announced	 in	 five	 accretive	 acquisitions,	 adding	 20%	 to	 pro	 forma	 Group	 revenue,	 giving	 US	 revenue	 of	 US$1.4bn
	 	Cash	 conversion	 and	 balance	 sheet	 remain	 strong,	 providing	 headroom	 for	 additional	 investment	 	 Full	 year	 dividend	 increased	 by	 20%
Total revenue*
£1,061.1m	 (2006:	 £1,015.7m)
Trading profit*
£198.8m	 (2006:	 £186.3m)
Earnings per Ordinary Share – basic
11.61p	 (2006:	 13.13p)
+
4.5
%
+
6.7
%
-
 .6
%
R&D Investment
6.3%	 (2006:	 6.0%)
Underlying profit before taxation*
£206.5m	 (2006:	 £182.9m)
Earnings per Ordinary Share – 
underlying*
13.09p	 (2006:	 11.66p)
+
0.3
PTS
+
 2.9
%
+
 2.3
%
*		 To	 assist	 with	 the	 understanding	 of	 earnings	 trends,	 the	 Group	 has	 included	 within	 its	 published	 statements	 trading	 profit	 and	 underlying	 earnings	 results.	 Trading	 profit	 and	 underlying	 earnings	 have	 been	 defined	 to	 exclude	 the	 impacts	 of	 the	 amortisation	 of	 intangible	 assets	 recognised	 on	 acquisition,	 fair	 value	 adjustments	 to	 inventory	 on	 acquisition,	 the	 marking	 to	 market	 of	 currency	 instruments	 not	 realised	 in	 the	 period	 and	 impairments	 of	 goodwill.	 There	 has	 been	 no	 impairment	 to	 goodwill	 in	 the	 current	 or	 comparative	 periods.	 Trading	 profit	 and	 underlying	 earnings	 exclude	 portfolio	 restructuring	 costs,	 which	 comprise	 exceptional	 profits	 or	 losses	 arising	 on	 disposals	 actually	 completed	 during	 the	 period,	 as	 well	 as	 exceptional	 costs	 or	 profits	 associated	 with	 the	 restructuring	 of	 the	 Group’s	 business	 and	 property	 portfolio.	 Trading	 profit	 and	 underlying	 earnings	 also	 exclude	 direct	 costs	 associated	 with	 exceptional	 terminated	 acquisitions.	 All	 underlying	 measures	 include	 the	 revenue	 and	 operational	 results	 of	 both	 continuing	 and	 discontinued	 businesses	 until	 the	 	 point	 of	 sale.	 Details	 of	 these	 adjustments	 may	 be	 found	 	 in	 the	 table	 on	 page	 20.	 Margin	 refers	 to	 Group	 trading	 margin	 throughout. 2	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Cobham Defence Electronic Systems
Critical	 technology	 for	 network	 centric	 operations,	 moving	 information	 around	 the	 digital	 battlefield,	 	 with	 customised	 and	 off-the-shelf	 solutions	 for	 people	 and	 systems	 to	 communicate	 on	 land,	 sea	 and	 air.
Revenue
Trading profit
£299.9m
£74.8m
28% of Group revenue
37% of trading profit
Principal locations
Highlights 2007
	 	Cobham	 Defence	 Communications	 received	 	 its	 second	 Queen’s	 Award	 for	 Enterprise
	 	Significant	 antenna	 and	 intercom	 products	 orders	 were	 received	 for	 US	 ground	 vehicles,	 including	 Mine	 Resistant	 Ambush	 Protected	 (MRAP)	 vehicles	 	 	Excellent	 microwave	 module	 positions	 on	 F/A-22	 tactical	 fighter	 and	 growing	 positions	 on	 the	 F-35	 Joint	 Strike	 Fighter
see	 page	 12	 for	 more	 info
2,700
Divisional 
headcount
Cobham	 at	 a	 glance
Providing	 a	 suite	 of	 end-to-end	 avionics	 products,	 law	 enforcement	 and	 national	 security	 solutions,	 and	 satellite	 communication	 products	 for	 land,	 	 sea	 and	 air	 applications.
Cobham Avionics and Surveillance
Highlights 2007
	Robust 	 growth	 in	 the	 sale	 of	 avionics	 products
	 	Increasing	 security	 concerns	 led	 to	 record	 sales	 in	 the	 Law	 Enforcement	 and	 National	 Security	 (LENS)	 businesses
	 	Good	 orders	 received	 for	 marine	 and	 aerospace	 SATCOM	 antennas
Revenue
Trading profit
£326.9m
£51.9m
30% of Group revenue
25% of trading profit
Principal locations
see	 page	 10	 for	 more	 info
3, 150
Divisional 
headcount 3	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Cobham Aviation Services
Delivering	 outsourced	 aviation	 services	 for	 military	 and	 civil	 customers	 worldwide	 through	 military	 training,	 special	 mission	 flight	 operations,	 outsourced	 commercial	 aviation	 and	 aircraft	 engineering.
Revenue
Trading profit
£192.5m
£21.9m
18% of Group revenue
11% of trading profit
Principal locations
Highlights 2007
	 	The	 Australian	 Sentinel	 contract	 commenced	 service	 on	 schedule
	 	A	 five-year	 expanded	 agreement,	 worth	 	 up	 to	 AUS$300m,	 secured	 with	 Qantas
	 	A	 strategic	 NATO	 Air	 Warfare	 contract	 	 secured	 for	 mainland	 Europe
see	 page	 16	 for	 more	 info
1,850
Divisional 
headcount
Cobham Mission Systems
Providing	 safety	 and	 survival	 systems	 for	 extreme	 environments,	 nose-to-tail	 refuelling	 systems	 and	 wing-tip	 to	 wing-tip	 mission	 systems	 for	 fast	 jets,	 transport	 aircraft	 and	 rotor	 craft.
Revenue
Trading profit
£262.8m
£54. 1 m
24% of Group revenue
27% of trading profit
Highlights 2007
	 	First	 deliveries	 for	 the	 Royal	 Australian	 Air	 	 Force	 marks	 delivery	 of	 Cobham’s	 1,000th	 	 air	 refuelling	 system
	 	Exceptionally	 strong	 sales	 of	 High	 Mobility	 Multipurpose	 Wheeled	 Vehicle	 (HMMWV)	 Improved	 Restraint	 Systems
	 	Record	 sales	 and	 order	 intake	 for	 microclimate	 cooling	 systems
Principal locations
see	 page	 14	 for	 more	 info
1,850
Divisional 
headcount 4	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Chairman’s	 statement
I	 am	 very	 pleased	 to	 report,	 in	 this	 my	 last	 statement,	 	 an	 excellent	 set	 of	 results	 for	 the	 Group	 in	 2007.	 It	 was	 another	 year	 of	 robust	 order	 intake	 finishing	 with	 a	 record	 order	 book	 of	 £1.8bn.	 	 Total	 Group	 revenue	 increased	 by	 	 4.5%	 to	 £1,061.1m	 (2006:	 £1,015.7m).	 Trading	 profit	 rose	 by	 6.7%	 to	 £198.8m	 (2006:	 £186.3m)	 and	 underlying	 profit	 before	 tax	 rose	 by	 12.9%	 to	 £206.5m	 (2006:	 £182.9m).
Underlying	 earnings	 per	 share	 of	 13.09p	 (2006:	 11.66p)	 were	 12.3%	 higher	 than	 	 the	 previous	 year	 and	 your	 Directors	 have	 recommended	 a	 final	 dividend	 of	 3.28p	 per	 share	 (2006:	 2.64p).	 Together	 with	 the	 interim	 dividend	 of	 1.22p	 per	 share	 (2006:	 1.11p)	 which	 was	 paid	 in	 December	 2007	 this	 represents	 an	 increase	 of	 20%	 compared	 to	 2006.	 Subject	 to	 shareholders’	 approval,	 the	 final	 dividend	 will	 be	 paid	 on	 1	 July	 2008	 to	 all	 shareholders	 on	 the	 register	 at	 30	 May	 2008.
Corporate development
The	 Group’s	 strategy	 continues	 to	 	 be	 based	 on	 growth	 in	 chosen	 high	 technology	 markets,	 primarily	 aerospace,	 defence	 and	 homeland	 security.
In	 2007	 and	 early	 2008	 the	 Group	 announced	 five	 acquisitions	 for	 a	 total	 	 of	 approximately	 US$750m.	 These	 are	 	 all	 located	 in	 the	 USA	 and	 details	 are	 set	 out	 on	 pages	 18	 and	 19	 of	 this	 report.
The	 Group	 has	 also	 announced	 a	 	 new	 and	 simplified	 organisational	 structure	 which	 will	 enhance	 business	 performance,	 leverage	 divisional	 capabilities	 and	 accelerate	 research	 	 and	 development	 activities.	 This	 	 report	 reflects	 the	 new	 organisation.
In	 February	 2008	 the	 United	 States	 Air	 Force	 selected	 the	 KC-45A	 for	 its	 tanker	 replacement	 programme,	 which	 will	 be	 fitted	 with	 Cobham’s	 all	 digital	 hose	 and	 drogue	 refuelling	 pods	 for	 under	 wing	 and	 fuselage	 refuelling.	 This	 selection	 confirms	 Cobham’s	 leading	 position	 in	 the	 air	 refuelling	 market	 and	 is	 expected	 to	 provide	 a	 significant	 workload	 for	 many	 years.
People
Jeff	 Edington	 retired	 in	 June	 after	 11	 years	 on	 the	 Board.	 We	 thank	 him	 for	 his	 advice	 and	 support	 which	 has	 been	 extremely	 valuable	 throughout	 his	 time	 with	 the	 Group.	 In	 December	 David	 Turner	 was	 appointed	 a	 Director	 and	 Deputy	 Chairman.	 	 David	 brings	 a	 wealth	 of	 international	 business	 experience	 from	 his	 previous	 appointments	 with	 GKN	 and	 Brambles.	 He	 will	 take	 over	 from	 me	 as	 Chairman	 at	 the	 end	 of	 the	 2008	 AGM	 and	 I	 will	 retire	 from	 the	 Board	 at	 the	 end	 of	 my	 current	 appointment	 in	 November	 2008.
Alex	 Hannam	 retired	 at	 the	 end	 of	 the	 year	 after	 four	 years	 on	 the	 Board.	 We	 thank	 him	 for	 his	 major	 contribution	 during	 this	 period.	 He	 will	 continue	 to	 provide	 advice	 to	 the	 Group	 on	 special	 projects	 in	 the	 first	 half	 of	 2008.
Many	 congratulations	 to	 Chief	 Executive	 Allan	 Cook	 who	 was	 awarded	 the	 CBE	 in	 the	 Queen’s	 New	 Year	 Honours	 List.
Outlook
The	 Group	 is	 increasingly	 embedded	 	 in	 high	 technology	 programmes	 of	 national	 significance	 in	 many	 countries.	 Notwithstanding	 the	 generally	 uncertain	 economic	 climate,	 external	 and	 internal	 security	 of	 nations	 remains	 of	 paramount	 importance.	 This	 provides	 a	 base	 for	 long-term	 sustained	 growth.
I	 am	 delighted	 to	 see	 progress	 in	 	 our	 career	 development	 and	 talent	 management	 programmes.	 Our	 ability	 	 to	 recruit,	 retain	 and	 develop	 the	 skills	 we	 need	 is	 an	 important	 feature	 of	 our	 continued	 success.
On	 behalf	 of	 the	 Board	 I	 thank	 all	 of	 our	 employees	 for	 another	 year	 of	 significant	 achievement	 and	 look	 forward	 to	 further	 progress	 in	 2008.
G F Page CBE DL
Chairman	 14	 March	 2008
Highlights
	 	Underlying	 EPS	 growth	 increased	 to	 12.3%	 	 	US$750m	 investment	 announced	 in	 five	 accretive	 acquisitions
	 	Cash	 conversion	 and	 balance	 sheet	 remain	 strong
	 	David	 Turner	 appointed	 Deputy	 Chairman	 and	 nominated	 successor
	 	Full	 year	 dividend	 increased	 by	 20% 5	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
1
2
3
4
5
Chief	 Executive’s	 review
2007	 was	 an	 excellent	 year.	 There	 was	 good	 progress	 integrating	 existing	 and	 newly	 acquired	 businesses,	 and	 further	 investment	 in	 technology	 which	 aims	 to	 deliver	 leading	 edge	 products	 	 whose	 future	 success	 can	 drive	 revenue	 growth.
Introduction
This	 section	 in	 conjunction	 with	 the	 Directors’	 report	 addresses	 the	 requirements	 of	 the	 statutory	 business	 review,	 to	 provide	 a	 fair	 review	 of	 the	 business	 of	 the	 Group	 and	 an	 analysis	 	 of	 development	 and	 performance	 during	 2007	 and	 the	 position	 at	 the	 year	 end.	 Overall business performance
2007	 was	 an	 excellent	 year,	 with	 increased	 levels	 of	 new	 business	 across	 the	 Group	 and	 growth	 in	 the	 order	 book.	 This	 provides	 visibility	 and	 increases	 confidence	 for	 the	 future.
The	 order	 book	 for	 the	 Technology	 Divisions	 at	 £0.8bn,	 and	 Cobham	 Aviation	 Services	 at	 £1.0bn,	 increased	 strongly,	 with	 the	 order	 book	 for	 Aviation	 Services	 now	 extending	 to	 2027.	 The	 proportion	 of	 revenue	 generated	 	 by	 the	 Group	 from	 the	 USA	 increased	 	 to	 47%	 and	 remains	 a	 primary	 driver	 	 for	 future	 growth	 prospects.	 Cobham	 	 is	 increasing	 its	 focus	 on	 a	 number	 of	 faster	 growth	 countries	 and	 regions,	 including	 the	 Middle	 East	 and	 India.
Operational	 improvements	 are	 leading	 	 to	 increased	 levels	 of	 profitability	 	 which	 have	 enabled	 further	 investment	 	 in	 technology,	 facilities	 and	 talent	 management.	 For	 the	 first	 time,	 recruitment	 activities	 in	 the	 USA	 and	 	 UK	 for	 graduates	 were	 coordinated	 Group	 wide.
Progress	 has	 also	 been	 made	 with	 respect	 to	 corporate	 social	 responsibility.	 Several	 targets	 set	 for	 2010	 have	 already	 been	 achieved.	 Key contracts
Orders	 and	 sales	 for	 High	 Mobility	 Multipurpose	 Wheeled	 Vehicle	 	 Improved	 Restraint	 Systems	 have	 	 been	 exceptionally	 strong,	 with	 an	 installed	 base	 of	 100,000	 vehicles.	 Follow-on	 orders	 were	 received	 for	 	 the	 F/A-22	 Radar,	 Electronic	 Warfare	 (EW)	 and	 Communication,	 Navigation	 and	 Identification	 systems,	 as	 well	 as	 the	 Advanced	 Anti-Radiation	 Guided	 Missile	 (AARGM),	 F-18	 Radar	 &	 EW	 systems,	 and	 the	 F-16	 E/F.	 Follow	 on	 orders	 were	 also	 received	 for	 On	 Board	 Inert	 Gas	 Generating	 System	 for	 the	 	 C-17	 aircraft	 with	 new	 contracts	 for	 	 the	 CH-53K	 helicopter	 and	 VH-71	 Presidential	 helicopter.	 The	 Group’s	 High	 Gain	 SATCOM	 	 antenna,	 for	 use	 in	 cockpit	 communication	 and	 passenger	 internet	 applications,	 	 has	 been	 selected	 by	 Rockwell	 Collins	 and	 Boeing	 for	 the	 787,	 747-8	 and	 	 777	 programmes.	 Cobham	 was	 selected	 by	 L-3	 Communications	 to	 supply	 the	 US	 Navy	 with	 a	 comprehensive	 ‘Cobham	 cockpit’	 suite	 of	 avionics	 equipment	 for	 the	 TH-57	 training	 helicopter	 retrofit	 programme.
In	 the	 first	 quarter	 an	 agreement	 worth	 up	 to	 AUS$300m	 was	 secured	 to	 operate	 Qantaslink’s	 entire	 operational	 fleet	 of	 11	 B717	 aircraft	 for	 five	 years.
Major programmes
First	 deliveries	 have	 been	 made	 to	 EADS-CASA	 for	 the	 Royal	 Australian	 	 Air	 Force	 A330	 Multi-Role	 Tanker	 and	 Transport	 (MRTT)	 aircraft	 marking	 	 the	 delivery	 of	 Cobham’s	 1,000th	 air	 refuelling	 system.	 The	 same	 90X	 pod	 type,	 developed	 under	 Company	 funded	 research	 and	 development,	 is	 offered	 	 for	 the	 UK	 FSTA	 and	 the	 US	 Northrop	 Grumman	 KC-45A	 solutions.	 The	 telescopic	 refuelling	 probe	 for	 the	 	 V-22	 Osprey	 tilt-rotor	 aircraft	 entered	 	 full	 rate	 production	 with	 a	 multi-year	 	 buy	 contract	 for	 deliveries	 to	 2017.	 Full	 rate	 production	 commenced	 on	 the	 BRU-61/A	 Small	 Diameter	 Bomb	 weapons	 carriage	 system,	 with	 the	 award	 of	 the	 Lot	 4	 contract	 from	 Boeing.	 Full	 rate	 Highlights
	 	2007	 was	 an	 excellent	 year
	 	Recent	 acquisitions	 strengthen	 position	 in	 higher	 growth	 markets
	 	Strong	 balance	 sheet	 	 for	 further	 strategic	 opportunities
	 	Strategy	 implementation	 	 is	 on	 track
Group revenues
	 2007		 2006
	 USA	 47%		 46%	
2	 Mainland	Europe	 17% 	 16%	
3	 Australia	 12%		 12%	
4	 UK	 13%		 15%	
5 Rest	of	World	 11%		 11%	 6	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
on	 pages	 18	 to	 22.	 PV	 expenditure	 (Company	 funded	 R&D)	 increased	 to	 £55.0m	 representing	 some	 6.3%	 of	 the	 Technology	 Divisions’	 revenue.	 This	 is	 steadily	 approaching	 the	 medium-term	 target	 of	 7%.	 The	 total	 number	 of	 reportable	 	 injuries	 reduced	 from	 73	 to	 54.	 Fifty	 percent	 of	 the	 injuries	 related	 to	 three	 specific	 categories	 and	 training	 and	 risk	 assessment	 are	 focused	 on	 these	 areas.	 Further	 detail	 is	 on	 page	 23.
Cobham	 continues	 to	 support	 customer	 supplier	 management	 initiatives,	 including	 the	 UK	 MoD’s	 key	 supplier	 assessment	 programme,	 achieving	 a	 	 top	 three	 position	 for	 the	 first	 time.	 	 A	 single	 approach	 to	 measuring	 customer	 satisfaction	 across	 the	 Group	 has	 	 not	 been	 identified,	 due	 to	 the	 large	 variation	 in	 contract	 types	 across	 the	 business	 and	 customer	 approaches	 to	 measurement.	 However,	 performance	 	 is	 addressed	 at	 business	 reviews.	 Voluntary	 staff	 turnover	 in	 the	 Group	 during	 2007,	 which	 is	 defined	 as	 turnover	 excluding	 retirements	 and	 redundancies,	 was	 10%.	 More	 than	 fifty	 percent	 of	 	 this	 movement	 is	 accounted	 for	 by	 	 two	 business	 units	 –	 Cobham	 Aviation	 Services	 –	 Australia	 and	 Cobham	 Defence	 Electronics	 Systems	 –	 San	 Diego.	 	 In	 Australia,	 exceptional	 demand	 for	 pilots	 in	 the	 Asia	 Pacific	 region	 caused	 above	 normal	 turnover	 and	 in	 San	 Diego,	 there	 	 is	 a	 shortage	 of	 highly	 skilled	 defence	 electronics	 engineers.	 This	 is	 a	 world	 wide	 issue	 for	 the	 industry.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Defence spending
More	 than	 fifty	 percent	 of	 the	 Group’s	 business	 is	 defence	 related,	 selling	 products	 and	 services	 directly	 and	 indirectly	 primarily	 to	 governments.	 Chief	 Executive’s	 review	 continued
production	 also	 commenced	 on	 systems	 for	 Tranche	 2	 of	 the	 Eurofighter	 Typhoon	 aircraft	 following	 the	 award	 of	 a	 contract	 from	 BAE	 Systems	 for	 Saudi	 Arabia.	 Cobham	 now	 has	 well	 established	 positions	 on	 the	 F/A-22	 tactical	 fighter	 with	 over	 150	 microwave	 modules	 per	 aircraft	 in	 production	 and	 almost	 100	 modules	 	 per	 aircraft	 already	 in	 development	 for	 the	 F-35	 Joint	 Strike	 Fighter.	 Cobham’s	 businesses	 in	 France	 capitalised	 on	 excellent	 opportunities	 	 for	 the	 sale	 of	 avionics	 and	 precision	 engineered	 components	 into	 Airbus,	 Eurocopter	 and	 other	 OEMs.	 Key Performance Indicators 
The	 Key	 Performance	 Indicators	 (KPIs)	 below	 are	 used	 to	 monitor	 progress	 	 in	 implementing	 the	 Group’s	 strategic	 objectives.	 The	 first	 three	 measures	 	 are	 addressed	 fully	 in	 the	 Finance	 Review	 Key performance indicators
Results Strategic	 objectives
Performance	 indicator Definition
2007 
actual
2006	 actual Target 1 2 3 4 5 6
Technology 
division organic 
growth
Organic	 revenue	 growth	 represents	 the	 growth	 of	 technology	 division	 companies	 for	 the	 period	 they	 are	 within	 the	 Group’s	 control,	 translated	 at	 constant	 exchange	 rate	 13.2% 5.8%
High	 single	 digit
Underlying EPS 
growth
Underlying	 profit	 after	 tax	 divided	 by	 the	 average	 number	 of	 shares	 in	 issue	 (at	 constant	 translation	 exchange	 rates) 15.8% 10.2%
High	 single	 digit
Operating cash 
conversion
Operating	 cash	 flow	 after	 capex	 and	 R&D	 as	 a	 percentage	 of	 trading	 profit,	 excluding	 profit	 from	 joint	 ventures	 81.1% 84.3% >	 80%
PV investment Company	 funded	 investment	 in	 R&D	 as	 a	 percentage	 of	 the	 five	 technology	 division	 revenues 6.3% 6.0%
7%	 mid	 term
Staff safety The	 total	 number	 of	 reportable	 injuries	 and	 other	 occurrences	 per	 100,000	 employees 548 720 <	 800
1.	 	Be	 a	 leading	 subsystems	 supplier	 with	 a	 comprehensive	 	 range	 of	 distinctive	 technologies
2.	 Be 	 in	 the	 top	 three	 in	 each	 of	 our	 chosen	 markets
3.	 	Grow 	 faster	 organically	 than	 the	 markets	 in	 which
	 we 	 operate
4.	 Materially 	 enhance	 growth	 through	 strategic	 acquisitions
5.	 Develop 	 a	 global	 market	 presence	 with	 a	 unified	 brand	 	 and 	 identity
6.	 Have 	 an	 efficient	 organisation	 with	 a	 high	 performance	 	 culture 	 and	 motivated	 people 7	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Defence	 spending	 depends	 on	 a	 complex	 mix	 of	 political	 considerations,	 budgetary	 constraints	 and	 the	 ability	 	 of	 the	 armed	 forces	 to	 meet	 specific	 threats	 and	 perform	 certain	 missions.	 Defence	 spending	 may	 fluctuate	 from	 year	 to	 year	 as	 a	 consequence.
Government contracts
The	 governments	 of	 the	 UK	 and	 USA	 are	 the	 Group’s	 largest	 end	 customers.	 Any	 significant	 disruption	 or	 deterioration	 in	 the	 relationship	 with	 these	 governments	 and	 a	 corresponding	 reduction	 in	 government	 contracts	 would	 reduce	 	 the	 Group’s	 revenues.	 Cobham	 has	 placed	 additional	 emphasis	 on	 key	 account	 management	 as	 part	 of	 its	 divisional	 consolidation.	 Market access
Many	 of	 the	 products	 the	 Group	 designs	 and	 manufactures	 for	 military	 or	 dual	 use	 are	 considered	 to	 be	 of	 national	 strategic	 interest	 and	 are	 subject	 to	 licensing,	 export	 controls	 and	 other	 restrictions.	 Changes	 could	 have	 a	 material	 adverse	 effect	 on	 the	 Group.	 Formal	 systems	 and	 policies	 are	 in	 place	 to	 ensure	 adherence	 to	 regulatory	 requirements	 and	 to	 identify	 any	 restrictions	 that	 could	 adversely	 impact	 the	 Group.
Fixed price contracts
The	 Group	 has	 reduced	 its	 exposure	 to	 fixed	 priced	 design	 and	 development	 contracts	 which,	 in	 general,	 carry	 	 higher	 risk	 than	 fixed	 price	 production	 activities.	 To	 help	 mitigate	 contract-
related	 risks	 and	 uncertainties,	 the	 Group’s	 Lifecycle	 Management	 process	 is	 being	 progressively	 applied	 to	 bids	 and	 contracts	 across	 the	 Group.
Currency exchange rates
The	 global	 nature	 of	 the	 Group’s	 business	 means	 it	 is	 exposed	 to	 volatility	 in	 currency	 exchange	 rates.	 It	 	 is	 Cobham’s	 policy	 to	 hold	 a	 significant	 proportion	 of	 its	 borrowings	 in	 foreign	 currency,	 principally	 US	 dollars,	 as	 a	 natural	 hedge	 against	 US	 dollar	 and	 other	 currency	 denominated	 assets	 and	 earnings	 from	 overseas	 subsidiaries.	 The	 Group	 has	 a	 policy	 of	 managing	 	 12	 months	 of	 potential	 transactional	 exposure	 on	 a	 rolling	 three	 month	 basis,	 together	 with	 exposures	 for	 firm	 long-
term	 contracts.
Acquisitions 
Cobham	 actively	 seeks	 strategic	 acquisitions,	 which	 may	 involve	 risks	 that	 might	 have	 a	 material	 impact	 on	 	 the	 Group.	 These	 risks	 are	 mitigated	 	 by	 extensive	 due	 diligence	 and,	 	 where	 practicable,	 by	 representations,	 warranties	 and	 indemnities	 by	 the	 vendors	 and	 a	 rigorous	 approval	 process.
The markets we operate in
The	 Aerospace	 and	 Defence	 markets	 continue	 to	 exhibit	 strong	 growth	 	 and	 with	 this	 growth,	 demand	 for	 the	 Group’s	 products	 and	 services	 has	 	 never	 been	 higher.	 The	 US	 defence	 market	 is	 strong	 	 and	 their	 process	 for	 procurement	 	 is	 well	 documented,	 which	 provides	 good	 visibility.	 The	 general	 consensus	 	 is	 that	 the	 US	 defence	 market	 can	 continue	 to	 grow;	 with	 2008	 likely	 	 to	 be	 a	 record	 year	 with	 a	 budget	 of	 	 over	 $700bn.
In	 commercial	 aerospace,	 which	 covers	 civil,	 regional	 jets	 and	 general	 aviation,	 order	 backlogs	 are	 at	 an	 all	 time	 high.	 Airlines	 are	 still	 forecasting	 more	 orders	 and	 air	 traffic	 miles	 are	 still	 increasing.
The	 faster	 growth	 markets,	 such	 	 as	 India,	 the	 Middle	 East	 and	 South	 Korea	 provide	 exciting	 opportunities	 for	 	 organic	 growth.	 The	 UK	 defence	 market	 is	 less	 robust	 with	 continued	 pressure	 on	 an	 already	 weak	 defence	 budget.	 This	 is	 unlikely	 to	 improve	 in	 the	 near	 	 or	 mid	 term.	 Cobham	 has	 less	 than	 5%	 of	 its	 product	 revenues	 with	 the	 UK	 defence	 market.
Outlook and future prospects
Cobham	 has	 had	 a	 year	 of	 accelerated	 double	 digit	 organic	 revenue	 growth,	 double	 digit	 improvement	 in	 underlying	 earnings	 and	 strong	 cash	 generation.	 	 It	 is	 well	 positioned	 to	 benefit	 from	 the	 investment	 it	 has	 made	 in	 technology	 capabilities	 and	 talent.	 Cobham	 intends	 to	 continue	 to	 focus	 on	 revenue	 and	 earnings	 growth	 through	 increased	 investment	 in	 PV,	 focus	 on	 sales	 and	 marketing	 and	 the	 development	 of	 employees.	 The	 Group	 is	 determined	 	 to	 take	 advantage	 of	 the	 exciting	 opportunities	 presented	 by	 its	 new	 consolidated	 divisional	 organisation	 	 and,	 as	 a	 result	 of	 these	 changes,	 aspires	 to	 outperform	 current	 organic	 growth	 expectations.	 Cobham’s	 business	 efficiency	 programme,	 to	 identify	 integration	 and	 other	 cost	 savings,	 will	 continue	 and	 will	 provide	 funds	 for	 reinvestment	 into	 PV	 and	 	 other	 growth	 enablers.	 The	 Group	 has	 also	 made	 sound	 progress	 in	 the	 execution	 of	 its	 acquisition	 strategy	 since	 the	 start	 of	 2007,	 agreeing	 to	 buy	 five	 high	 quality	 businesses	 for	 approximately	 US$750m	 in	 total.	 Cobham	 retains	 considerable	 financing	 capacity	 and	 remains	 confident	 that	 it	 can	 complete	 further	 acquisitions	 from	 its	 active	 pipeline.	 However,	 	 it	 will	 only	 continue	 to	 pursue	 its	 acquisition	 strategy	 where	 this	 creates	 value	 for	 shareholders.
Given	 the	 strength	 of	 Cobham’s	 order	 book	 and	 the	 healthy	 state	 of	 the	 Group’s	 markets,	 the	 Board	 is	 confident	 of	 achieving	 its	 growth	 targets	 in	 2008.  	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
The	 creation	 of	 four,	 larger	 scale	 divisions	 will	 achieve	 the	 following	 business	 and	 commercial	 advantages:
		 Broader	 scope	 for	 technology	 development,	 increased	 	 potential	 for	 synergies	 from	 the	 integration	 of	 operating	 units
		 Greater	 management	 strength	 in	 depth	 at	 the	 divisional	 level
		 	Significantly	 enhanced	 US	 sales	 and	 marketing	 and
		 	More	 extensive	 use	 of	 the	 Cobham	 brand	 name,	 	 increasing	 customer	 recognition	 Phase  – September 2005
Focus 
Capability
Operational Performance
		 Re-shaped	 portfolio
		 Enhanced	 capabilities	 &	 talent
		 Increased	 level	 of	 PV	 investment
		 Increased	 operational	 efficiency
Phase 2 – December 2007
Strengthened divisional structure 
to provide scale & critical mass
		 Strengthened	 &	 simplified	 divisions
		 Enhanced	 business	 front	 end	
in	 the	 USA	 &	 India
		 Clarified	 vision,	 strategic	 objectives	 &	 KPIs
Phase 3 – 200 to 20 0
Organic and acquisitive growth
		 Continued	 implementation	 of	 strategy	 with	 focus	 on	 organic	 	 and	 acquisitive	 growth
Strategy
Driving growth   in Cobham
Consolidation of divisions
Cobham	 is	 driving	 growth	 through	 the	 implementation	 of	 	 a	 three	 phase	 strategy	 commenced	 in	 September	 2005.	 	 Phase	 2	 was	 announced	 in	 December	 2007	 with	 a	 strengthening	 of	 the	 divisions,	 with	 six	 consolidated	 into	 four.
A phased approach Phase 2
Cobham	 today	 is	 largely	 recognised	 as	 	 a	 product	 and	 component	 supplier,	 with	 some	 notable	 exceptions	 where	 the	 Group	 provides	 complete	 subsystems	 in	 areas	 such	 as	 air	 refuelling,	 oxygen	 supply,	 vehicle	 intercoms	 and	 aviation	 services	 such	 as	 EW	 training	 and	 surveillance.	 If	 the	 Group	 is	 going	 to	 become	 a	 preferred	 supplier	 globally	 with	 prime	 contractors	 and	 governments,	 Cobham	 needs	 to	 look,	 feel	 and	 behave	 like	 a	 tier	 two	 subsystems	 company.	 The	 Group	 needs	 to	 transform	 from	 being	 mainly	 a	 tier	 three	 supplier	 selling	 great	 products	 and	 components,	 	 to	 a	 tier	 two	 player	 providing	 subsystems,	 with	 some	 tier	 three	 capabilities.	 New	 structure
Cobham  
Defence 
Electronic 
Systems
Cobham 
Avionics & 
Surveillance
Cobham
Mission 
Systems
Cobham 
Aviation 
Services
Cobham 
Defence 
Electronic 
Systems
Cobham 
Antennas
Cobham 
Avionics &
Surveillance
Cobham Air 
Refuelling & 
Auxiliary 
Mission 
Equipment
Cobham Life 
Support
Cobham Flight 
Operations & 
Services
ERA	 Technology
SATCOM Antennas	 &
Composites
Personal	 Safety
Former	 structure 9	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Phase 3 
	 1. 	 Be	 a	 leading	 subsystems	 supplier	 with	 a	 comprehensive	 range	 of	 distinctive	 technologies
	 2. 	 Be	 in	 the	 top	 three	 in	 each	 of	 our	 chosen	 markets
	 3. 	 Grow	 faster	 organically	 than	 the	 markets	 in	 which	 we	 operate
	 4. 	 Materially	 enhance	 growth	 through	 strategic	 acquisitions
	 5. 	 Develop	 a	 global	 market	 presence	 with	 a	 unified	 brand	 and	 identity
	 6. 	 Have	 an	 efficient	 organisation	 with	 a	 high	 performance	 culture	 and	 motivated	 people
Strategic Objectives
Cobham	 has	 identified	 six	 strategic	 objectives	 and	 four	 key	 enablers	 as	 part	 of	 its	 ongoing	 strategy	 implementation.	 Further	 investment	 in	 these	 four	 enablers	 or	 areas	 of	 focus	 will	 position	 the	 Group	 for	 Phase	 3,	 which	 will	 run	 for	 two	 years.
Vision
To	 be	 the	 most	 trusted	 global	 partner	 for	 leading	 edge	 aerospace	 and	 defence	 technologies
Focus	 on	 the	 customer	 and	 performance	 management.
Build	 on	 a	 significant	 and	 	 growing	 US	 presence.
Develop	 capabilities	 in	 	 emerging	 growth	 markets.
Grow	 export	 business	 in	 	 home	 markets.
Be	 an	 acquirer	 of	 choice.
Invest	 in	 advanced,	 market	 	 driven	 technologies.
Exploit	 core	 technologies	 	 in	 adjacent	 markets.
Increase	 PV	 investment	 to	 7%.
Create	 a	 vibrant	 technical	 community	 with	 strong	 	 external	 links.
Develop	 key	 leadership	 and	 technology	 capabilities.
Actively	 manage	 careers	 with	 opportunities	 across	 markets	 	 and	 internationally.
Be	 an	 employer	 of	 choice.
Create	 scaleable	 Strategic	 Business	 Units	 able	 to	 incorporate	 acquisitions.
Drive	 economies	 of	 scale	 across	 divisions.
Share	 expertise	 and	 consistently	 apply	 core	 Cobham	 processes.
Build	 and	 exploit	 the	 Cobham	 brand.
Enablers
Growth Technology Talent Transformation
Driving growth   in Cobham  0	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Business review
This	 Division	 has	 delivered	 excellent	 organic	 revenue	 growth	 in	 the	 year	 and	 maintained	 the	 record	 margins	 achieved	 in	 2006.	 The	 avionics,	 search	 and	 rescue,	 Law	 Enforcement	 and	 National	 Security	 (LENS)	 and	 SATCOM	 businesses	 all	 showed	 growth.	 Tactical	 radio	 sales	 and	 aircraft	 digital	 intercom	 systems	 continued	 to	 see	 robust	 growth	 throughout	 the	 year	 as	 public	 safety	 organisations	 worldwide	 increase	 spending	 on	 communication	 equipment.	 Search	 and	 rescue	 products	 benefited	 from	 large	 military	 orders.	 The	 demand	 for	 avionics	 products	 developed	 under	 PV	 programmes	 remains	 robust,	 particularly	 for	 rotary	 wing	 equipment,	 with	 the	 Division	 continuing	 to	 secure	 positions	 with	 Original	 Equipment	 Manufacturers	 (OEMs).	 In	 addition,	 Cobham	 was	 selected	 by	 L-3	 Communications	 to	 supply	 the	 US	 Navy	 with	 a	 comprehensive	 ‘Cobham	 cockpit’	 suite	 of	 avionics	 equipment	 for	 the	 TH-57	 training	 helicopter	 retrofit	 programme.	 Cobham’s	 French	 businesses	 capitalised	 on	 excellent	 opportunities	 for	 the	 sale	 	 of	 avionics	 and	 precision	 engineered	 components	 into	 Airbus,	 Eurocopter	 and	 other	 OEMs.	 Special	 mission	 helicopters	 and	 fixed	 wing	 military	 trainers	 continue	 to	 drive	 growth	 for	 avionics	 products.	 Increasing	 security	 concerns	 around	 the	 globe	led	to	record	sales	in	the	LENS	 business.	 Wireless	 digital	 video	 and	 audio	 surveillance	technologies	and	covert	 subject	 and	 internet	 surveillance	 products	 continue	 to	 be	 actively	 sought	 by	 robotics	 OEMs,	 government,	 military,	 and	 civil	 security	 and	 intelligence	 organisations.	 PV	 programmes	 have	 been	 initiated	 to	 meet	 customer	 demand	 for	 integrated	 surveillance	 systems,	 from	 ‘smart’	 filtering	 of	 data	 from	 the	 perimeter	 to	 computer	 aided	 content	 analysis	 at	 the	 centre.	 The	 Division	 now	 supplies	 virtually	 all	 digital	 video	 and	 control	 links	 used	 on	 US	 robotic	 Improvised	 Explosive	 Device	 disposal	 platforms.
A	 multimillion	 dollar	 SATCOM	 antenna	 order	 was	 secured	 in	 August	 from	 a	 maritime	 broadband	 provider,	 Ship	 Equip	 AS	 of	 Norway.	 Ship	 Equip	 selected	 Cobham’s	 antennas	 because	 of	 their	 quality	 and	 durability	 in	 demanding	 environments	 such	 as	 the	 North	 Sea.	 The	 antennas	 will	 provide	 ships	 with	 fixed	 cost	 internet	 email	 and	 low	 cost	 voice	 over	 internet	 protocol	 telephone	 lines.	 A	 new	 range	 of	 coastal	 marine	 antenna	 systems	 for	 television	 	 reception	 at	 sea	 was	 launched.	 	 With	 three	 versions,	 these	 antennas	 provide	 higher	 gain	 and	 improved	 	 3-axis	 movement	 control	 for	 better	 stability	 in	 severe	 sea	 conditions.	 The	 Federal	 Aviation	 Administration	 approved	 the	 HGA-7001	 High	 Gain	 SATCOM	 antenna	 for	 use	 in	 cockpit	 communication,	 passenger	 internet	 and	 other	 communications	 applications,	 making	 it	 eligible	 for	 installation	 on	 any	 commercial	 aviation	 platform.	 This	 antenna	 has	 been	 selected	 by	 Rockwell	 Collins	 and	 Boeing	 for	 the	 787,	 747-8	 and	 777	 programmes	 and	 to	 date	 is	 the	 only	 ARINC-781	 (the	 standard	 that	 defines	 the	 next	 generation	 of	 smaller,	 lighter	 weight	 fuselage-mounted	 antenna)	 compliant	 antenna	 that	 has	 achieved	 this	 status.	 Airlines	 that	 have	 Cobham Avionics 
and Surveillance
The	 Division	 has	 been	 enlarged	 by	 Cobham	 Antennas’	 commercial	 and	 SATCOM	 business	 being	 absorbed	 into	 Cobham	 Avionics	 and	 Surveillance.
already	 adopted	 the	 antenna	 include	 Qatar,	 Emirates,	 KLM	 and	 Air	 France.
On	 28	 August	 2007,	 the	 acquisition	 	 of	 Patriot	 Antenna	 Systems	 (Patriot)	 	 was	 completed	 for	 a	 cash	 consideration	 of	 US$18m,	 with	 an	 additional	 cash	 consideration	 of	 up	 to	 US$27m,	 contingent	 on	 future	 performance.	 	 The	 business	 is	 based	 in	 Michigan,	 	 USA	 and	 designs	 and	 manufactures	 parabolic	 antennas	 and	 a	 range	 of	 specialist	 Radio	 Frequency	 (RF)	 equipment.	 Patriot	 provides	 products,	 technology	 and	 capabilities	 that	 can	 be	 exploited	 across	 Cobham’s	 antenna	 businesses,	 particularly	 in	 the	 growing	 US	 government	 and	 military	 Satellite	 	 On	 The	 Move	 markets.
On	 3	 January	 2008	 the	 acquisition	 of	 	 S-TEC	 Corporation	 (S-TEC),	 a	 company	 based	 in	 Texas,	 USA,	 was	 completed	 for	 a	 cash	 consideration	 of	 US$38m.	 S-TEC	 designs,	 certifies	 and	 manufactures	 autopilots	 for	 general	 aviation	 aircraft.	 Increasingly	 avionics	 suppliers	 need	 	 to	 be	 able	 to	 supply	 autopilots	 to	 their	 customers,	 as	 the	 market	 is	 moving	 towards	 integrating	 these	 with	 other	 products,	 such	 as	 Cobham’s	 Electronic	 Flight	 Instrumentation	 System	 displays,	 to	 save	 weight,	 wiring	 and	 integration	 costs.	 Revenue
£m
07
326.9
281.0
06
Trading proﬁt
£m
07
51.9
45.9
06
 	 Cobham	plc	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2007
Robust	growth	in	the	sale	
of	avionics	products
Increasing	security	concerns	
led	to	record	sales	in	the	
LENS	businesses
Good	orders	received	for	
marine	and	aerospace	
SATCOM	antennas
Organic	revenue	growth	
of	17.5%
Divisional highlights Results 
Patriot	Antenna	Systems	was	
acquired	in	August	2007.	Their	
12m	antenna	is	used	by	the	Jet	
Propulsion	Laboratory	in	the	USA.
The	HGA-7001	SATCOM	antenna	
has	been	selected	for	the	Boeing	
777	and	will	be	used	by	airlines	
including	Qatar,	Emirates	and	KLM.  2	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Business review
Cobham	 Defence	 Electronic	 Systems	 achieved	 another	 year	 of	 strong	 organic	 growth,	 after	 an	 exceptional	 2006	 performance.	 Headline	 results	 were	 impacted	 by	 the	 2006	 disposal	 of	 Precision	 Antennas	 and	 by	 currency	 translation.
Cobham	 Defence	 Communications	 	 was	 awarded	 its	 second	 Queen’s	 Award	 for	 Enterprise	 for	 a	 300%	 increase	 in	 exports	 of	 digital	 Vehicle	 Intercom	 Systems	 over	 the	 past	 three	 years.	 Sales	 of	 these	 products	 have	 continued	 to	 grow,	 including	 deliveries	 for	 the	 latest	 MRAP	 vehicles	 in	 the	 USA	 and	 deliveries	 to	 eight	 new	 international	 customers.
A	 new	 Integrated	 Digital	 Soldier	 System	 (IDSS)	 providing	 Command,	 Control,	 Communications	 and	 Situational	 Awareness	 capability	 to	 the	 infantryman	 went	 into	 service	 with	 the	 British	 Army	 and	 formed	 the	 basis	 of	 the	 Future	 Infantry	 Soldier	 Technology	 C4I	 Light	 system	 successfully	 trialled	 in	 2007.	 The	 Eagle	 Close	 Combat	 Radio	 was	 launched,	 which	 is	 compatible	 with	 the	 IDSS,	 following	 a	 collaborative	 development	 with	 ERA	 Technology,	 part	 of	 Cobham’s	 Avionics	 &	 Surveillance	 Division.
Significant	 development	 programmes	 were	 secured	 for	 the	 US	 ballistic	 	 missile	 defence	 system,	 high	 reliability	 integrated	 space	 modules,	 helicopter	 radar	 system	 upgrades	 and	 new	 applications	 on	 existing	 manned	 reconnaissance	 aircraft	 and	 unmanned	 aircraft	 such	 as	 the	 Global	 Hawk.	 Follow-on	 orders	 were	 received	 for	 	 the	 F-22	 Radar,	 Electronic	 Warfare	 (EW)	 and	 Communication,	 Navigation	 and	 Identification	 systems,	 as	 well	 as	 the	 	 F-18	 Radar	 &	 EW	 systems,	 and	 the	 	 F-16	 E/F.	 Further	 research	 and	 development	 funding	 was	 secured	 for	 applications	 including	 the	 AARGM	 missile	 and	 various	 F-16	 and	 F-18	 	 aircraft	 avionics	 systems.	 Development	 contracts	 were	 also	 awarded	 for	 the	 second	 phase	 of	 the	 USAF	 Scaleable	 Panel	 for	 Efficient	 Affordable	 Radars	 programme	 and	 additional	 Digital	 Receiver	 Exciter	 contracts	 for	 phased	 array	 radar	 systems.	 The	 Division	 now	 has	 well	 established	 positions	 on	 the	 	 F/A-22	 tactical	 fighter	 with	 over	 150	 microwave	 modules	 per	 aircraft	 in	 production	 and	 almost	 100	 modules	 	 per	 aircraft	 already	 in	 development	 for	 the	 F-35	 Joint	 Strike	 Fighter.	 The	 Division’s	 aftermarket	 business	 was	 strengthened	 with	 a	 US$20m	 multi-year	 spares	 and	 repairs	 contract	 with	 the	 USAF	 for	 F-15,	 F-16	 and	 C-130	 aircraft.	 Subsystem	 growth	 was	 evident	 in	 	 the	 supply	 of	 commercial	 weather	 	 radar	 antennas,	 military	 search	 and	 surveillance	 radars,	 waveguide	 pallet	 assemblies	 and	 front	 end	 assemblies	 	 for	 ground	 based	 SATCOM	 terminals.	 There	 was	 also	 strong	 organic	 growth	 for	 ground	 communication	 antennas,	 including	 SATCOM	 and	 high	 bandwidth	 data	 link,	 and	 EW	 antenna	 systems.
Two	 contracts	 were	 received	 for	 a	 total	 of	 circa	 7,000	 ultra	 high	 frequency	 SATCOM	 antennas	 for	 MRAP	 vehicles,	 with	 orders	 for	 a	 similar	 quantity	 expected	 in	 2008.	 Shipments	 of	 telescoping	 masts	 for	 use	 in	 combat	 conditions	 rose	 by	 50%	 in	 2007	 to	 nearly	 8,000	 units,	 with	 orders	 from	 the	 US	 Marines,	 the	 Ukraine,	 Romania	 and	 India.
Cobham Defence 
Electronic Systems
The	 Division	 has	 been	 enlarged	 by	 the	 	 military	 business	 of	 Cobham	 Antennas	 	 being	 combined	 with	 Cobham	 Defence	 Electronic	 Systems.
In	 the	 UK,	 the	 Division	 was	 selected	 	 to	 supply	 Direction	 Finding	 equipment	 and	 navigation/communication	 antennas	 for	 the	 AgustaWestland	 Future	 Lynx	 programme.	 Cobham	 will	 provide	 complete	 tailfin	 assemblies	 for	 70	 	 aircraft	 utilising	 composite	 technology	 with	 integrated,	 conformal	 antennas.	 The	 completion	 of	 the	 acquisition	 of	 Lansdale,	 based	 in	 Pennsylvania,	 USA,	 was	 announced	 for	 a	 cash	 consideration		 of	 US$240m	 on	 25	 February	 2008.	 Lansdale	 is	 a	 world	 leading	 developer	 	 of	 EW	 technology	 and	 supplier	 of	 EW	 subsystems	 for	 military	 aircraft.	 The	 acquisition	 is	 highly	 complementary	 to	 the	 existing	 Cobham	 Defence	 Electronic	 Systems	 US	 microwave	 business	 bringing	 additional	 subsystem	 product	 and	 resource	 and	 will	 accelerate	 Cobham’s	 plans	 to	 establish	 itself	 as	 a	 premier	 RF	 front	 end	 subsystem	 provider.
On	 16	 January	 2008,	 the	 agreement	 to	 purchase	 SPARTA,	 a	 company	 run	 from	 Washington	 DC,	 USA	 was	 announced	 	 for	 a	 cash	 consideration	 of	 US$416m.	 	 The	 acquisition	 is	 subject	 to	 regulatory	 and	 SPARTA	 shareholder	 approvals	 and	 	 is	 expected	 to	 complete	 towards	 the	 end	 of	 the	 second	 quarter	 of	 2008.	 SPARTA	 will	 transform	 Cobham’s	 position	 in	 the	 high	 growth	 US	 intelligence	 market	 and	 will	 add	 technology	 focused	 systems	 engineering	 and	 support	 capabilities	 for	 through-life	 programmes	 across	 defence	 markets.	 The	 acquisition	 of	 SPARTA	 represents	 a	 major	 step	 forward	 in	 Cobham’s	 technology	 strategy,	 as	 a	 significant	 integrated	 business	 supplying	 the	 US	 Department	 of	 Defense	 and	 Intelligence	 needs.	 3 	 Cobham	plc	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2007
A	fl 	eet	of	Mine	Resistant	Ambush	
Protected	Vehicles	(MRAP)	fi 	tted	
with	Cobham	UHF	SATCOM	
antennas.
Cobham	has	almost	100	microwave	
modules	in	development	for	the	
F-35	Lightning	II	aircraft.
Received	second	Queen’s	
Award	for	Enterprise
Signifi 	cant	antenna	and	
intercom	orders	received	
for	US	ground	vehicles
Excellent	position	on	F/A-22	and	
growing	positions	on	the	F-35	
Completion	of	the	Sensor	and	
Antenna	Systems	Lansdale	
acquisition	and	the	agreement	
to	purchase	SPARTA	Inc
Organic	revenue	growth	of	8.4%
Divisional highlights Results
Revenue
£m
07
299.9
300.7
06
Trading proﬁt
£m
07
74.8
71.7
06 Revenue
£m
07
262.8
253.1
06
Trading proﬁt
£m
07
54.1
44.9
06
An	A310	Multi	Role	Tanker	
Transport	aircraft	trailing	hoses	from	
wing	mounted	refuelling	pods.	
Cobham	provides	the	754	buddy	
store	refuelling	system	for	the	
Su-30	fast	jet.
4 	 Cobham	plc	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2007
First	deliveries	for	the	Royal	
Australian	Air	Force	marks	
delivery	of	Cobham’s	1,000th	
air	refuelling	system
Exceptionally	strong	sales	of	
High	Mobility	Multipurpose	
Wheeled	Vehicle	(HMMWV)	
Improved	Restraint	Systems
Record	sales	and	order	
intake	for	microclimate	
cooling	systems
Organic	revenue	growth	
of	13.9%
Divisional highlights Results 5 	 Cobham	plc	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2007
Business review
Cobham	Mission	Systems	delivered	
excellent	organic	growth.	As	previously	
guided,	the	air	refuelling	business	began	
to	return	to	its	long-term	growth	trend	
with	margins	normalising	and	the	order	
book	reaching	a	record	level.	Headline	
revenue	was	adversely	impacted	by	the	
2006	disposal	of	Dräger	Aerospace	and	
by	the	impact	of	currency	translation.
First	deliveries	have	been	made	to	EADS-
CASA	for	the	Royal	Australian	Air	Force	
A330	Multi-role	Tanker	and	Transport	
aircraft	marking	the	delivery	of	Cobham’s	
1,000th	air	refuelling	system.	The	same	
90X	pod	type,	developed	under	PV,	is	
offered	for	the	UK	FSTA	and	the	USAF	
KC-45A	solutions.	
The	Division	started	to	make	deliveries	
against	the	16	ship	sets	ordered	to	
provide	buddy	store	refuelling	for	the	
Su-30	fast	jet	aircraft.	Revenue	for	the	
754	buddy	store	is	expected	to	continue	
alongside	sales	of	the	Su-30	aircraft	over	
the	next	fi 	ve	years.	The	telescopic	probe	
for	the	V-22	Osprey	tilt-rotor	aircraft	
entered	full	rate	production	with	a	
multi-year	buy	contract	for	deliveries	to	
2017.	The	Division	secured	an	important	
development	contract	to	supply	
telescopic	probe	hardware	for	the	F-16	
conformal	air	refuelling	tank	system.	
This	programme	will	enable	the	F-16	
aircraft	to	demonstrate	probe	and	drogue	
compatibility	–	a	key	requirement	for	the	
upcoming	Indian	Air	Force	Medium	
Multi-Role	Combat	Aircraft	competition.	
Full	rate	production	of	the	BRU-61/A	
Small	Diameter	Bomb	(SDB)	carriage	
system	commenced	following	the	award	
from	Boeing	of	a	contract	for	Lot	4.	
Tranche	2	deliveries	for	the	Eurofi 	ghter	
Typhoon	commenced	in	support	of	an	
award	from	BAE	Systems	for	Saudi	Arabia.	
On	Board	Inert	Gas	Generating	System	
follow	on	orders	were	received	for	the	
C-17	aircraft	with	new	contracts	for	the	
CH-53K	helicopter	and	VH-71	Presidential	
helicopter.	Initial	deliveries	for	the	
Boeing	787	aircraft	fuel	tank	inerting	
system,	which	was	developed	with	PV	
funding,	were	completed	on	schedule.
The	HMMWV	Improved	Restraint	System	
programme	for	the	US	Army’s	Tank-
automotive	and	Armament	Command	
fl 	eet	of	HMMWVs	was	exceptionally	
strong,	securing	new	orders	to	retrofi 	t	an	
additional	20,000	ship	sets	with	ongoing	
production	increasing	the	installed	base	to	
100,000	vehicles.	The	Division	will	look	to	
leverage	this	success	to	new	requirements	
for	MRAP	vehicles	and	JLTV.
The	Division	had	record	sales	and	order	
intake	for	microclimate	cooling	systems	
as	new	orders	continued	for	the	US	
Army	Air	Warrior	application	and	the	
product	was	successfully	adapted	to	a	
new	ground	vehicle	application	in	the	
Stryker	armoured	vehicle.	Over	5,000	
microclimate	cooling	systems	have	been	
fi 	elded	with	the	US	Army	by	the	year	end.
Cobham	Mission	Systems	was	formed	from	a	
combination	of	the	Life	Support	and	Air	Refuelling	
and	Auxiliary	Mission	Equipment	Divisions.
Cobham 
Mission Systems
On	10	December	2007,	the	acquisition	
of	the	assets	and	intellectual	property	
of	Associated	Design	and	Development	
Electronics	Inc	(ADDE)	was	completed	
for	a	cash	consideration	of	US$4.5m.	
ADDE	is	a	market	leader	in	miniature	
linear	cryogenic	cooler	products	used	
in	military	and	commercial	infrared	
systems	for	observation,	guidance,	
targeting	and	missile	warning	detection	
and	will	enable	a	fully	optimised	
cryocooler-controller	subsystem	to	be	
offered	to	customers.	The	business	will	
be	integrated	into	Cobham’s	Mission	
Systems	unit	in	Iowa,	USA	during	the	
fi 	rst	half	of	2008.	 A	Bombardier	Dash	8	aircraft	fi 	tted	
with	a	suite	of	electronic	surveillance	
equipment	for	the	Australian	Border	
Protection	Command.
Cobham	operates	a	fl 	eet	of	11	B717	
aircraft	on	behalf	of	Qantaslink.
Revenue
£m
07
192.5
188.4
06
Trading proﬁt
£m
07
21.9
20.1
06
6 	 Cobham	plc	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2007
The	Australian	Sentinel	
contract	commenced	service	
on	schedule
A	fi 	ve-year	expanded	
agreement,	worth	up	
to	AUS$300m,	secured	
with	Qantas
Strategic	NATO	Air	Warfare	
contract	secured	for	mainland	
Europe
Organic	revenue	growth	
of	2.5%
Divisional highlights Results  7	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Business review
Cobham	 Aviation	 Services’	 revenue	 grew	 in	 line	 with	 medium-term	 expectations.	 Trading	 profit	 was	 up	 strongly	 due	 to	 engineering	 modification	 programmes	 occurring	 in	 the	 second	 half	 and	 a	 strong	 performance	 in	 the	 FBH	 Heliservices	 (FBH)	 Joint	 Venture.
In	 January	 2008	 the	 AUS$1bn	 Sentinel	 contract	 commenced	 with	 the	 new	 Dash	 8	 aircraft	 delivered	 according	 to	 schedule,	 t	 o	 enhance	 the	 capabilities	 of	 the	 Australian	 Border	 Protection	 Command	 operation.	 The	 aircraft	 have	 been	 extensively	 modified	 by	 Cobham’s	 engineers	 to	 accommodate	 new	 electro-
optics,	 infrared	 sensors,	 radars	 and	 satellite	 communications,	 forming	 a	 system	 which	 is	 more	 capable	 than	 the	 military	 assets	 of	 many	 of	 the	 world’s	 air	 forces.	 In	 total,	 approximately	 AUS$2.5m	 of	 Cobham	 sensor	 and	 communications	 equipment	 is	 installed	 on	 these	 aircraft.
In	 the	 first	 quarter	 an	 agreement	 worth	 	 up	 to	 AUS$300m	 was	 secured	 to	 operate	 Qantaslink’s	 entire	 operational	 fleet	 of	 	 11	 B717	 aircraft	 for	 five	 years,	 expanding	 the	 fleet	 from	 eight	 aircraft.	 The	 Australian	 business	 continues	 	 to	 grow	 with	 new	 and	 repeat	 orders	 from	 the	 mining	 and	 resource	 industry.	 	 A	 17-year	 relationship	 with	 Santos,	 	 one	 of	 Australia’s	 most	 prominent	 oil	 and	 gas	 companies,	 was	 strengthened	 with	 a	 five-year	 extension	 to	 provide	 a	 larger	 84-seat	 aircraft.
The	 Air	 Warfare	 training	 business	 was	 awarded	 a	 NATO	 EW	 training	 contract	 	 in	 December	 2007.	 This	 contract	 will	 help	 to	 promote	 the	 Group’s	 services	 throughout	 Europe	 and	 support	 advancing	 growth	 opportunities	 in	 the	 Middle	 East.	 An	 agreement	 has	 been	 reached	 	 with	 Hawker	 Beechcraft	 for	 Cobham	 Aviation	 Services	 to	 be	 their	 UK	 civil	 	 and	 military	 modification	 centre	 which	 will	 complement	 the	 Division’s	 special	 mission	 modification	 capability.
FBH	 had	 another	 excellent	 year,	 winning		 a	 significant	 order	 for	 £65m	 to	 provide	 a	 further	 four	 helicopters	 to	 the	 UK	 Ministry	 of	 Defence	 for	 20	 years	 and	 renewing	 	 a	 £9m	 contract	 to	 operate	 aircraft	 in	 Cyprus.	 AgustaWestland	 joined	 the	 team	 of	 FBH,	 Bristow	 Helicopters	 and	 Serco	 bidding	 for	 the	 harmonised	 UK	 Search	 and	 Rescue	 contract.	 Cobham	 Aviation	 Services	 is	 the	 renamed	 Cobham	 Flight	 Operations	 and	 Services
Division	 and	 now	 has	 responsibility	 for	 overseeing	 Cobham’s	 involvement	 in	 the	 	 UK	 FSTA	 Programme.
Cobham  
Aviation Services  	 Cobham	plc	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2007
Financial	review	
Basis of reporting
In	line	with	the	regulatory	requirements	
for	UK	listed	companies,	the	Group	
fi 	nancial	statements	in	this	report	have	
been	prepared	in	accordance	with	
International	Financial	Reporting	
Standards	(IFRS)	as	adopted	by	the	EU,	
together	with	the	associated	International	
Financial	Reporting	Interpretation	Council	
(IFRIC)	interpretations	and	those	parts	of	
the	Companies	Act	1985	applicable	to	
entities	reporting	under	IFRS.	As	currently	
permitted,	the	Group	has	elected	to	
prepare	its	UK	statutory	fi 	lings	under	
the	local	GAAP	format.	
To	assist	with	the	understanding	of	
earnings	trends,	the	Group	has	included	
within	its	published	statements	trading	
profi 	t	and	underlying	earnings	results.	
Trading	profi 	t	and	underlying	earnings	
have	been	defi 	ned	to	exclude	the	impacts	
of	the	amortisation	of	intangible	assets	
recognised	on	acquisition,	fair	value	
adjustments	to	inventory	on	acquisition,	
the	marking	to	market	of	currency	
instruments	not	realised	in	the	period	
and	impairments	of	goodwill.	There	has	
been	no	impairment	to	goodwill	in	the	
current	or	comparative	periods.	Trading	
profi 	t	and	underlying	earnings	exclude	
portfolio	restructuring	costs,	which	
comprise	exceptional	profi 	ts	or	losses	
arising	on	disposals	actually	completed	
during	the	period,	as	well	as	exceptional	
costs	or	profi 	ts	associated	with	the	
restructuring	of	the	Group’s	business	
and	property	portfolio.	Trading	profi 	t	and	
underlying	earnings	also	exclude	direct	
costs	associated	with	exceptional	
terminated	acquisitions.	All	underlying	
measures	include	the	revenue	and	
operational	results	of	both	continuing	
and	discontinued	businesses	until	the	
point	of	sale.
Financial record 
		 Share	price	increased	by	7.9%	which,	
with	the	dividends	paid	in	the	year,	
enabled	Cobham	to	deliver	total	
shareholder	return	of	9.9%
		 Total	revenue	for	the	Group	grew	
organically	by	10.8%	(2006:	3.6%),	
offsetting	declines	caused	by	
disposals	and	translation	of	US	results
		 Underlying	profi 	t	before	tax	increased	
by	12.9%	to	£206.5m	(2006:	£182.9m)
		 Underlying	earnings	per	share	
increased	by	12.3%	to	13.09p
		 Operating	cash	fl 	ow	of	£156.6m	
(2006:	£153.0m),	which	is	a	
conversion	rate	of	81.1%	(2006:	
84.3%)	to	trading	profi 	t,	excluding	
profi 	t	after	tax	from	joint	ventures	
		 Free	cash	fl 	ow	(defi 	ned	as	cash	
generated	in	the	business	before	
dividends	to	shareholders,	acquisitions	
and	disposals,	movements	in	funding	
and	the	impact	of	changes	in	translation	
rates	for	overseas	currencies)	was	
£133.9m	(2006:	£103.8m)	
		 Strong	fi 	nancial	performance	has	
driven	a	one	off	step	change	in	
dividends.	Final	dividend	of	3.28p	
declared	giving	increase	in	full	year	
dividend	of	20%	(2006:	10%)
Accounting policies 
The	Board	has	reviewed	the	accounting	
policies	in	accordance	with	lAS	8	and	
determined	that	they	are	appropriate	for	
the	Group.	
During	2007	the	Company	reviewed	the	
organisation	of	its	businesses	and	having	
considered	the	respective	risks	and	
rewards,	determined	that	in	order	to	
present	more	reliable	and	relevant	
information	regarding	the	segmentation	
of	its	results,	a	consolidation	based	
on	four	operating	divisions	was	more	
appropriate	than	that	based	on	the	
six	divisions	previously	presented.	
In	accordance	with	the	requirements	of	
IAS	8	and	IAS	14,	the	Board	has	adopted	
this	new	segmentation	for	2007	fi 	nancial	
year	and	restated	the	comparative	period	
to	this	position.	Details	of	the	composition	
of	the	new	business	segments	are	
included	on	pages	2	and	3	of	this	report.
Acquisitions and business sales
On	28	August	2007,	the	Group	announced	
the	completion	of	the	acquisition	of	Patriot	
Highlights
	 	 Order	book	up	to	£1.8bn	
(2006:	£1.6bn)
	 	 Technology	Divisions	
achieve	13.2%	organic	
revenue	growth
	 	 Robust	Group	margin	after	
increase	in	company	funded	
Research	and	Development	
to	6.3%	(2006:	6.0%)	of	
Technology	Divisions’	revenue
	 	 Underlying	EPS	growth	up	
to	12.3%	(15.9%	at	constant	
translation	exchange)
	 	 Strong	operating	cash	
conversion	at	81%
	 	 	 Full	year	dividend	increased	
by	20%  9	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Antenna	 Systems	 (Patriot)	 for	 a	 cash	 consideration	 of	 US$18m,	 with	 an	 additional	 cash	 consideration	 of	 up	 to	 US$27m,	 contingent	 on	 future	 performance.	 The	 business	 is	 based	 	 in	 Michigan,	 USA	 and	 designs	 and	 manufactures	 parabolic	 antennas	 and	 	 a	 range	 of	 specialist	 Radio	 Frequency	 	 (RF)	 equipment.	 Patriot	 provides	 products,	 technology	 and	 capabilities	 	 that	 can	 be	 exploited	 across	 Cobham’s	 antenna	 businesses,	 particularly	 in	 the	 growing	 US	 government	 and	 military	 Satellite	 on	 The	 Move	 markets.
On	 10	 December	 2007,	 the	 Group	 announced	 the	 acquisition	 of	 the	 assets	 and	 intellectual	 property	 of	 Associated	 Design	 and	 Development	 Electronics	 Inc	 (ADDE)	 for	 a	 cash	 consideration	 of	 US$4.5m.	 ADDE	 is	 a	 market	 leader	 	 in	 miniature	 linear	 cryogenic	 cooler	 products	 used	 in	 military	 and	 commercial	 infrared	 systems	 for	 observation,	 guidance,	 targeting	 and	 missile	 warning	 detection	 and	 will	 enable	 a	 fully	 optimised	 cryocooler-controller	 subsystem	 to	 be	 offered	 to	 customers.	 The	 business	 will	 be	 integrated	 into	 Cobham’s	 Mission	 Systems	 unit	 in	 Iowa,	 USA	 during	 the	 first	 half	 of	 2008.	 On	 3	 January	 2008,	 the	 completion	 	 of	 the	 acquisition	 of	 S-TEC	 Corporation	 	 (S-TEC),	 a	 company	 based	 in	 Texas,	 USA,	 for	 a	 cash	 consideration	 of	 	 US$38m	 was	 announced.	 S-TEC	 	 designs,	 certifies	 and	 manufactures	 autopilots	 for	 general	 aviation	 aircraft.	 Increasingly	 avionics	 suppliers	 need	 	 to	 be	 able	 to	 supply	 autopilots	 to	 their	 customers,	 as	 the	 market	 is	 moving	 towards	 integrating	 these	 with	 other	 products,	 such	 as	 Cobham’s	 Electronic	 Flight	 Instrumentation	 System	 displays,	 to	 save	 weight,	 wiring	 and	 integration	 costs.	 Cobham	 completed	 the	 acquisition	 of	 Sensor	 and	 Antenna	 Systems	 Lansdale	 Inc	 (Lansdale),	 based	 in	 Pennsylvania,	 USA,	 for	 a	 cash	 consideration	 of	 US$240m	 on	 22	 February	 2008.	 	 Lansdale	 is	 a	 world	 leading	 developer	 of	 Electronic	 Warfare	 (EW)	 technology	 and	 supplier	 of	 EW	 subsystems	 for	 military	 aircraft.	 The	 acquisition	 is	 highly	 complementary	 to	 the	 existing	 Cobham	 Defence	 Electronic	 Systems	 US	 microwave	 business	 bringing	 additional	 subsystem	 product	 and	 resource	 and	 will	 accelerate	 Cobham’s	 plans	 to	 establish	 itself	 as	 a	 premier	 RF	 front	 	 end	 subsystem	 provider.
On	 16	 January	 2008,	 the	 Group	 announced	 it	 had	 reached	 agreement	 	 to	 purchase	 SPARTA	 Inc	 (SPARTA),	 a	 company	 run	 from	 Washington	 DC,	 USA	 for	 a	 cash	 consideration	 of	 US$416m.	 The	 acquisition	 is	 subject	 to	 regulatory	 and	 SPARTA	 shareholder	 approvals	 and	 is	 expected	 to	 complete	 towards	 the	 end	 of	 the	 second	 quarter	 of	 2008.	 SPARTA	 will	 transform	 Cobham’s	 position	 in	 the	 high	 growth	 US	 intelligence	 market	 and	 will	 add	 technology	 focused	 systems	 engineering	 and	 support	 capabilities	 for	 through-life	 programmes	 across	 defence	 markets.	 The	 acquisition	 of	 SPARTA	 represents	 a	 major	 step	 forward	 in	 Cobham’s	 technology	 strategy,	 as	 a	 significant	 integrated	 business	 supplying	 the	 US	 Department	 of	 Defense	 and	 Intelligence	 needs.
In	 October	 2007,	 £5.8m	 of	 contingent	 consideration	 was	 received	 relating	 to	 the	 sale	 of	 the	 Group’s	 Countermeasures	 business	 in	 2006.	 Consistent	 with	 the	 treatment	 adopted	 for	 this	 business	 in	 2006,	 the	 profit	 on	 sale	 generated	 from	 this	 inflow	 has	 been	 treated	 as	 part	 of	 discontinued	 businesses	 and	 excluded	 from	 the	 underlying	 results	 of	 the	 Group.
Other restructuring activity
During	 the	 year,	 the	 Group	 continued	 	 to	 deliver	 the	 internal	 elements	 of	 its	 restructuring	 programme.	 The	 main	 elements	 included	 its	 consolidation	 	 of	 the	 diving	 products	 business	 based	 	 in	 Mississauga,	 Canada,	 into	 existing	 facilities	 in	 Iowa,	 USA	 and	 the	 integration	 of	 the	 antennas	 business	 based	 in	 Southampton,	 UK,	 into	 the	 new	 purpose	 designed	 facility	 in	 Marlow,	 UK,	 both	 of	 which	 were	 completed.	 The	 project	 to	 redevelop	 the	 Wimborne,	 UK	 site	 of	 Cobham	 Mission	 Systems	 has	 been	 continuing,	 with	 contracts	 exchanged	 on	 the	 sale	 of	 surplus	 land	 and	 the	 process	 for	 submitting	 planning	 applications	 well	 under	 way.	 The	 redevelopment	 of	 the	 Wimborne	 site	 is	 being	 used	 as	 a	 catalyst	 for	 re-engineering	 the	 unit’s	 manufacturing	 operations,	 including	 the	 outsourcing	 of	 less	 value-added	 work	 and	 the	 adoption	 of	 business	 lean	 practices.	 Results
The	 Group	 has	 taken	 advantage	 of	 healthy	 demand	 across	 its	 markets	 during	 the	 year	 and	 has	 ended	 the	 year	 with	 an	 order	 book	 of	 some	 £1.8bn	 (2006:	 £1.6bn)	 which	 will	 underpin	 future	 revenue	 growth.	 The	 order	 book	 for	 both	 the	 Technology	 Divisions	 at	 £0.8bn	 (2006:	 £0.7bn)	 and	 Cobham	 Aviation	 Services	 at	 £1.0bn	 (2006:	 £0.9bn)	 have	 increased	 strongly.	 Headline	 order	 intake	 at	 £1.2bn	 (2006:	 £1.4bn)	 was	 down	 on	 2006	 due	 to	 more	 than	 £0.3bn	 of	 orders	 received	 in	 2006	 relating	 to	 the	 Sentinel	 contract	 by	 Cobham	 Aviation	 Services.	 Excluding	 Sentinel,	 Group	 order	 intake	 increased	 11.9%	 over	 the	 prior	 year.	 Encouragingly,	 each	 of	 the	 three	 Technology	 Divisions	 increased	 their	 order	 intake	 during	 the	 year	 with	 the	 book	 to	 bill	 ratio	 being	 in	 aggregate	 over	 1.1	 times.
Total	 Group	 revenue	 in	 the	 year	 increased	 by	 4.5%	 to	 £1,061.1m	 (2006:	 £1,015.7m)	 driven	 by	 double-digit	 organic	 growth,	 which	 was	 partly	 offset	 by	 adverse	 currency	 translation	 and	 the	 effect	 of	 net	 business	 disposals	 in	 2006.	 The	 biggest	 driver	 of	 organic	 growth	 has	 been	 the	 Technology	 Divisions,	 which	 achieved	 excellent	 organic	 revenue	 growth	 of	 13.2%	 (2006:	 5.8%).	 Cobham	 Aviation	 Services	 achieved	 organic	 revenue	 growth	 of	 2.5%,	 consistent	 with	 the	 medium-
term	 expectations	 for	 this	 division. 20	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Financial	 review	 continued
The	 table	 below	 categorises	 revenue	 into	 the	 various	 end-market	 segments	 for	 the	 Group’s	 technology	 divisions:	 	 	 	 2007	 	 2006* 
	 	 £m % £m	 %
US	 Military	 /	 Government	 384.8 44.3 338.7	 42.7
Other	 Military	 /	 Government	 225.5 25.9 191.1	 24.1
Civil	 Aerospace	 &	 General	 Aviation	 136.1 15.6 128.9	 16.3
Communications	 and	 Technical	 123.3 14.2 133.6	 16.9
	 *	 2006	 revenue	 restated	 to	 2007	 translation	 rates
Results
Trading	 profit	 is	 calculated	 as	 follows:	 £m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007 2006
Result	 before	 joint	 ventures	 	 	 	 	 	 160.0 184.0
Share	 of	 post-tax	 results	 of	 joint	 ventures	 	 	 	 	 	 5.8 4.7
Operating profit from continuing operations	 	 	 	 	 165.8 188.7
Adjusted	 to	 exclude:	 	 	 (Gain)/loss 	 on	 portfolio	 restructuring	 	 	 	 	 	 9.5 (1.5)
	 Unrealised	 (gain)/loss	 on	 revaluation	 of	 currency	 instruments	 	 	 	 5.7 (10.8)
	 Costs	 of	 terminated	 acquisition	 	 	 	 	 	 3.9 –
	 	Amortisation	 of	 intangible	 assets	 arising	 on	 acquisition,	 including	 fair	 value	 adjustments	 	 13.9 9.1
Trading	 profit	 from	 continuing	 operations	 	 	 	 	 	 198.8 185.5
Trading	 profit	 from	 discontinued	 operations	 	 	 	 	 	 – 0.8
Trading profit 	 	 	 	 	 198.8 186.3
Underlying	 profit	 before	 tax	 is	 calculated	 as	 follows:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007 2006
Profit on continuing operations before taxation 	 	 	 	 173.5 185.2
Adjusted	 to	 exclude:	 	 	 (Gain)/loss 	 on	 portfolio	 restructuring	 	 	 	 	 	 9.5 (1.5)
	 Unrealised	 (gain)/loss	 on	 revaluation	 of	 currency	 instruments	 	 	 	 5.7 (10.8)
	 Costs	 of	 terminated	 acquisition	 	 	 	 	 	 3.9 –
	 	Amortisation	 of	 intangible	 assets	 arising	 on	 acquisition,	 including	 fair	 value	 adjustments	 	 13.9 9.1
Underlying	 profit	 before	 taxation	 from	 continuing	 operations	 	 	 	 	 206.5 182.0
Underlying	 profit	 before	 taxation	 from	 discontinued	 operations	 	 	 	 	 – 0.9
Underlying profit before taxation	 	 	 	 	 	 206.5 182.9
	 	 Profit	 after	 tax	 used	 in	 the	 calculation	 of	 underlying	 EPS	 is	 calculated	 as	 follows:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 	 2006
Profit	 after	 taxation	 attributable	 to	 equity	 shareholders	 	 	 	 	 131.7 148.1
Adjusted	 to	 exclude	 (after	 tax):
	 (Gain)/loss 	 on	 portfolio	 restructuring	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.8 (15.2)
	 Unrealised	 (gain)/loss	 on	 revaluation	 of	 currency	 instruments	 	 	 	 4.0 (7.6)
	 Costs	 of	 terminated	 acquisition	 	 	 	 	 	 2.7 –
	 	Amortisation	 of	 intangible	 assets	 arising	 on	 acquisition,	 including	 fair	 value	 adjustments	 	 9.2 6.3
Underlying profit after tax	 	 	 	 	 	 148.4 131.6
 
Underlying earnings per ordinary share (pence)	 	 	 	 	 13.09 11.66
Cobham	 Aviation	 Services	 revenue	 represents	 18%	 of	 Group	 totals.
Increasing	 company	 funded	 investment	 is	 key	 to	 the	 success	 of	 Cobham’s	 strategy,	 delivering	 future	 growth	 and	 returns.	 However,	 the	 nature	 of	 the	 technology	 and	 its	 interaction	 with	 aerospace	 certification	 and	 customer	 specifications	 result	 in	 developments	 only	 reaching	 the	 point	 of	 demonstrating	 technical	 feasibility	 towards	 the	 end	 of	 their	 development	 lifecycle.	 Accordingly,	 in	 the	 year,	 PV	 increased	 to	 £55.0m	 (2006:	 £49.3m)	 representing	 some	 	 6.3%	 (2006:	 6.0%)	 of	 the	 Technology	 Divisions’	 revenue,	 steadily	 approaching	 the	 medium-term	 target	 of	 increasing	 PV	 expenditure	 to	 7%.	 Additionally,	 there	 was	 a	 significant	 amount	 of	 externally	 funded	 research	 and	 development	 expenditure	 so	 that	 total	 research	 and	 development	 in	 the	 Technology	 Divisions	 continues	 to	 exceed	 10%	 of	 revenue.	 Group	 trading	 profit	 increased	 by	 6.7%	 to	 £198.8m	 (2006:	 £186.3m),	 which	 was	 again	 driven	 by	 strong	 organic	 growth	 partly	 offset	 by	 adverse	 currency	 translation	 and	 transaction	 exposure.	 The	 Group’s	 underlying	 trading	 margin	 increased	 by	 0.4%	 points	 to	 18.7%	 (2006:	 18.3%)	 due	 to	 a	 number	 of	 factors,	 including	 the	 continued	 focus	 	 on	 operational	 improvement	 and	 the	 prior	 year	 disposal	 of	 lower-margin	 businesses,	 partly	 offset	 by	 adverse	 2 	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
currency	 translation	 and	 increased	 PV	 spending.	 The	 key	 driver	 behind	 trading	 profit	 in	 the	 Technology	 Divisions,	 which	 increased	 to	 £180.3m	 (2006:	 £162.5m),	 was	 organic	 growth	 of	 14.6%	 (2006:	 7.3%),	 with	 all	 three	 Technology	 Divisions	 achieving	 strong	 organic	 growth.	 Cobham	 Aviation	 Services	 achieved	 strong	 organic	 trading	 profit	 growth	 of	 9.0%,	 with	 trading	 profit	 increasing	 to	 £21.9m	 (2006:	 £20.1m).
Net	 finance	 income	 was	 £7.7m	 (2006:	 expense	 £3.4m).	 Net	 interest	 on	 cash	 	 and	 debt	 holdings	 has	 moved	 from	 a	 	 net	 expense	 of	 £6.2m	 in	 2006	 to	 net	 income	 of	 £2.3m	 in	 2007,	 as	 a	 result	 	 of	 the	 Group’s	 2005	 and	 2006	 disposal	 programme	 and	 strong	 cash	 generation	 	 in	 the	 year.	 The	 net	 finance	 credit	 	 from	 pension	 schemes	 was	 £5.4m	 (2006:	 £2.8m),	 with	 improvement	 	 being	 based	 on	 long-term	 returns	 on	 assets	 outweighing	 interest	 charges	 	 on	 scheme	 liabilities.	 Changes	 in	 the	 economic	 environment	 and	 mortality	 rates	 assumed	 at	 the	 end	 of	 2007	 	 will	 drive	 this	 return	 down	 in	 2008.	 Underlying	 profit	 before	 tax	 was	 up	 12.9%	 at	 £206.5m	 (2006:	 £182.9m).
Taxation
On	 an	 underlying	 basis	 the	 effective	 	 tax	 rate	 for	 the	 year	 was	 28.8%	 	 (2006:	 28.7%).	 The	 underlying	 tax	 rate	 	 is	 calculated	 by	 dividing	 the	 Group’s	 underlying	 tax	 charge	 by	 its	 underlying	 profit	 before	 tax,	 excluding	 the	 share	 of	 post-tax	 results	 of	 joint	 ventures.	 It	 is	 anticipated	 that	 in	 2008,	 the	 underlying	 tax	 rate	 will	 increase	 modestly,	 as	 profits	 in	 the	 US	 increase	 as	 a	 proportion	 of	 the	 total	 due	 to	 higher	 US	 organic	 growth	 and	 the	 impact	 of	 US	 based	 acquisitions	 offsetting	 the	 lower	 UK	 tax	 rate.	 Earnings per share
Strong	 organic	 growth,	 improved	 margins	 and	 net	 interest	 income	 resulted	 in	 an	 increase	 in	 underlying	 EPS	 of	 12.3%	 to	 13.09p	 (2006:	 11.66p)	 or	 by	 15.9%	 at	 constant	 translation	 exchange	 rates.	 The	 reduction	 in	 expensed	 FSTA	 bid	 costs,	 compared	 to	 the	 prior	 year,	 contributed	 0.9%	 to	 underlying	 EPS	 growth.
Basic	 earnings	 per	 share	 was	 lower	 than	 the	 comparable	 period	 at	 11.61p	 (2006:	 13.13p)	 due	 to	 increased	 amortisation	 of	 intangible	 assets	 arising	 on	 acquisition	 	 of	 £13.9m	 (2006:	 £9.1m)	 and	 losses	 of	 £5.7m	 (2006:	 gain	 £10.8m)	 on	 the	 unrealised	 mark-to-market	 of	 currency	 results	 of	 joint	 ventures.	 This	 was	 an	 excellent	 performance	 in	 a	 year	 with	 strong	 organic	 growth	 and	 significant	 capital	 expenditure	 relating	 to	 the	 purchase	 of	 aircraft	 for	 the	 Sentinel	 contract	 in	 Australia.	 After	 the	 payment	 of	 tax,	 net	 interest	 and	 dividends	 received	 from	 joint	 ventures,	 the	 Group	 generated	 free	 	 cash	 flow	 of	 £133.9m	 (2006:	 £103.8m),	 which	 increased	 primarily	 due	 to	 the	 Group	 moving	 from	 net	 interest	 paid	 to	 net	 interest	 received	 and	 due	 to	 lower	 tax	 payments	 made.	 From	 free	 cash	 flow,	 the	 Group	 invested	 a	 net	 £17.7m	 (2006:	 net	 inflow	 £61.1m)	 on	 corporate	 activity	 and	 paid	 dividends	 of	 £43.8m	 with	 the	 balance,	 net	 of	 foreign	 exchange	 movements	 and	 share	 issue	 proceeds,	 increasing	 year	 end	 net	 cash.
At	 the	 end	 of	 the	 year,	 the	 Group	 had	 net	 cash	 balances	 of	 £77.9m	 (2006:	 £0.9m).	 It	 is	 the	 Group’s	 policy	 to	 hold	 a	 significant	 proportion	 of	 its	 borrowings	 in	 foreign	 currency,	 principally	 US	 dollars,	 as	 a	 natural	 hedge	 against	 US	 dollar	 and	 other	 currency	 denominated	 assets	 and	 earnings	 from	 overseas	 subsidiaries.	 At	 the	 year	 end,	 assuming	 completion	 of	 the	 S-TEC,	 Lansdale	 and	 SPARTA	 acquisitions,	 net	 debt	 would	 have	 been	 approximately	 £253m,	 on	 a	 pro-forma	 basis.
	 Further	 detail	 relating	 to	 the	 cash	 flows	 and	 movements	 in	 net	 debt	 of	 the	 Group	 is	 given	 in	 the	 consolidated	 cash	 flow	 statement	 on	 page	 52	 and	 in	 note	 12	 	 of	 the	 Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements.	 A	 summary	 of	 the	 change	 in	 net	 debt	 is	 set	 out	 below.
instruments.	 In	 addition,	 the	 Group	 reported	 a	 £5.8m	 profit	 in	 2007	 on	 disposal	 of	 undertakings,	 compared	 to	 	 a	 2006	 net	 profit	 on	 disposal	 of	 £13.0m.	 In	 2007	 the	 Group	 incurred	 £3.9m	 	 (2006:	 nil)	 of	 non	 underlying	 terminated	 acquisition	 costs	 and	 £9.5m	 (2006:	 	 gain	 £1.5m)	 of	 non	 underlying	 portfolio	 restructuring	 and	 integration	 costs,	 consistent	 with	 the	 Group’s	 strategic	 	 plan	 and	 prior	 guidance.	 To	 date	 portfolio	 restructuring	 has	 produced	 exceptional	 income	 of	 £25.9m	 which,	 after	 taking	 into	 account	 the	 exceptional	 costs	 incurred	 in	 2007,	 leaves	 cumulative	 net	 profits	 from	 the	 strategic	 restructuring	 programme	 of	 £12.4m.
Dividends
A	 final	 ordinary	 dividend	 of	 3.28p	 (2006:	 2.64p)	 has	 been	 recommended	 by	the	Board	which	represents	an	 increase	 of	 24%	 on	 the	 comparable	 period.	 Together	 with	 an	 interim	 dividend	 of	 1.22p	 (2006:	 1.11p),	 which	 was	 paid	 on	 13	 December	 2007,	 this	 will	 result	 	 in	 a	 total	 dividend	 of	 4.50p	 per	 share	 (2006:	 3.75p).	 Subject	 to	 shareholders’	 approval,	 the	 final	 dividend	 will	 be	 paid	 on	 1	 July	 2008,	 to	 all	 shareholders	 on	 the	 register	 at	 30	 May	 2008.
Cash flow
Operational	 cash	 inflow	 in	 the	 year,	 	 after	 capital	 expenditure	 and	 that	 PV	 expenditure	 which	 is	 expensed	 in	 the	 income	 statement,	 but	 before	 the	 payment	 of	 tax,	 interest	 and	 dividends	 received	 from	 joint	 ventures	 was	 £156.6m	 (2006:	 £153.0m)	 representing	 81.1%	 (2006:	 84.3%)	 of	 trading	 profit	 before	 the	 Group’s	 share	 of	 post-tax	 £m	 	 	 	 2007	 	 2006
Trading	 profit	 (excluding	 joint	 ventures)	 	 	 193.0  181.6	 	 Depreciation 	 and	 other	 movements	 	 	 33.8  35.0		 	 Increase 	 in	 working	 capital	 and	 provisions	 	 (27.6)  (24.2)
	 Net	 capital	 expenditure	 and	 financial	 investment	 	 (42.6)  (39.4)
Operating	 cash	 flow	 	 	 156.6  153.0	 Operating	 cash/trading	 profit	 (excluding	 joint	 ventures)	 	 81.1%	 84.3%
	 Net	 interest	 paid	 	 	 1.1  (7.3)	 	 Taxation 	 paid	 	 	 (23.3)  (46.2)
	 Dividend	 received	 from	 joint	 ventures	 	 	 3.2  4.3		 	 Restructuring 	 costs	 	 	 (3.7) –	 Free	 cash	 flow	 	 	 133.9  103.8 
	 Dividends	 paid	 	 	 (43.8)  (39.7)
	 Net	 cash	 outflow	 for	 acquisitions	 less	 disposal	 proceeds	 (17.7)  61.1
	 Movements	 in	 funding	 and	 exchange	 movements	 	 4.6  44.0 
Decrease/(increase)	 in	 net	 debt	 	 	 77.0  169.2		 22	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Financial	 review	 continued
Financing
As	 a	 result	 of	 its	 business	 cash	 inflows	 and	 portfolio	 reshaping,	 the	 Group	 ended	 the	 year	 with	 net	 cash	 of	 £77.9m	 (2006:	 £0.9m).	 Due	 to	 there	 being	 a	 net	 cash	 surplus,	 the	 Group	 had	 no	 net	 gearing	 at	 the	 year	 end	 (2006:	 n/a).	 	 Net	 interest	 cover	 is	 at	 a	 prudent	 level	 	 of	 29	 times	 (2005:	 29	 times).
The	 Group	 had	 two	 main	 borrowings	 outstanding	 at	 the	 end	 of	 the	 year	 under	 the	 following	 facilities:
a)		 the	 October	 2002	 private	 placement	 of	 Cobham	 guaranteed	 senior	 notes	 which	 raised	 US$225m.	 The	 facility	 comprises	 two	 series	 of	 notes	 repayable	 in	 seven	 and	 ten	 years	 from	 inception	 respectively.	 As	 a	 result	 of	 an	 interest	 swap,	 the	 interest	 expense	 varies	 with	 LIBOR;
b)		 the	 £300m	 five-year	 multi-currency	 credit	 agreement	 which	 was	 entered	 into	 in	 July	 2005.	 The	 borrowings	 carry	 a	 variable	 rate	 of	 interest.	 US$260m	 of	 this	 facility,	 used	 to	 finance	 the	 acquisition	 of	 REMEC	 Defense	 &	 Space	 Inc.,	 has	 been	 swapped	 into	 fixed	 rate	 borrowings.	 At	 the	 end	 of	 2007,	 £226.4m	 had	 been	 drawn	 under	 this	 agreement.
Included	 with	 the	 net	 cash	 are	 significant	 sterling	 cash	 deposits	 and	 US	 dollar-
denominated	 borrowings.	 The	 Group	 continues	 to	 hold	 the	 US	 dollar	 borrowing	 which	 funded	 acquisitions	 in	 the	 USA	 	 to	 act	 as	 a	 natural	 hedge	 against	 the	 related	 net	 assets,	 whilst	 the	 sterling	 cash	 deposits	 have	 arisen	 as	 a	 result	 	 of	 the	 disposal	 activity	 and	 strong	 cash	 flow	 from	 operations.	 In	 2007,	 the	 interest	 rate	 achieved	 on	 the	 deposits	 was	 in	 line	 with	 the	 rate	 paid	 on	 the	 	 US	 dollar	 borrowings.
In	 January	 2008	 the	 Group	 secured	 	 a	 new	 US$700m	 acquisition	 financing	 facility	 through	 to	 30	 June	 2009.	 The	 new	 facility,	 together	 with	 existing	 cash	 resources,	 provides	 capacity	 to	 fund	 the	 recent	 acquisitions	 of	 SPARTA	 Inc,	 Sensors	 and	 Antenna	 Systems,	 Lansdale	 and	 S-TEC	 Corporation.	 The	 facility	 has	 been	 provided	 by	 Barclays	 Capital,	 BNP	 Paribas,	 Dresdner	 Kleinwort	 and	 Royal	 Bank	 of	 Scotland.	 Pensions
The	 Group	 operates	 a	 number	 of	 defined	 benefit	 pension	 schemes,	 the	 most	 significant	 being	 the	 Cobham	 Pension	 Plan.	 The	 most	 recent	 actuarial	 valuation	 for	 this	 scheme	 was	 carried	 out	 	 at	 1	 April	 2006	 and	 this	 has	 been	 updated	 for	 accounting	 purposes	 to	 31	 December	 2007.	 At	 this	 date,	 the	 Group’s	 net	 liability	 before	 deferred	 tax	 relating	 to	 all	 of	 its	 defined	 benefit	 schemes	 had	 increased	 to	 £37.2m	 (2006:	 £29.6m).	 The	 major	 drivers	 behind	 this	 were	 lower	 than	 expected	 returns	 on	 scheme	 assets	 and	 more	 conservative	 mortality	 assumptions.
During	 the	 period	 the	 Group	 made	 	 normal	 contributions	 to	 its	 defined	 benefits	 schemes	 of	 £5.4m	 in	 excess	 	 of	 the	 current	 service	 costs	 of	 £6.0m,	 	 as	 assessed	 under	 lAS	 19.	 In	 addition,	 	 a	 further	 special	 contribution	 of	 £5.3m	 was	 made	 as	 part	 of	 the	 withdrawal	 agreement	 with	 the	 Cobham	 Pension	 	 Plan	 trustees	 made	 in	 October	 2005	 relating	 to	 the	 disposal	 of	 the	 Fluid	 and	 	 Air	 group.	 This	 cash	 outflow	 is	 shown	 	 as	 part	 of	 investing	 activities	 in	 the	 cash	 flow	 statement.
The	 Group’s	 defined	 benefit	 pension	 schemes	 are	 closed	 to	 new	 entrants,	 although	 alternative	 defined	 contribution	 schemes	 have	 been	 offered	 in	 all	 cases.
Cobham	 remains	 committed	 to	 the	 support	 of	 the	 pension	 schemes	 within	 the	 Group	 and	 continues	 to	 work	 	 with	 the	 trustees	 of	 those	 schemes	 	 to	 ensure	 that	 net	 liability	 issues	 are	 managed	 appropriately.
Foreign exchange
The	 Group’s	 aim	 has	 been	 to	 reduce,	 	 or	 eliminate	 wherever	 practical,	 foreign	 exchange	 risk.	 The	 pound	 sterling/	 US	 dollar	 exchange	 rate	 is	 the	 most	 important	 as	 far	 as	 the	 Group	 is	 concerned.	 This	 is	 primarily	 due	 to	 the	 level	 of	 US	 dollars	 which	 the	 UK	 and	 continental	 European	 subsidiaries	 expect	 to	 receive	 from	 their	 business	 activities,	 as	 certain	 global	 aerospace	 and	 defence	 contracts	 are	 denominated	 in	 US	 dollars.	 Additionally,	 translation	 exposure	 arises	 from	 operating	 companies	 based	 in	 the	 USA,	 offset	 partially	 by	 dollar-
denominated	 borrowings.	 All	 significant	 foreign	 exchange	 transactions	 are	 approved	 by	 the	 parent	 company.	 In	 addition	 to	 the	 currency	 borrowings,	 a	 number	 of	 financial	 instruments	 are	 used	 to	 manage	 transactional	 foreign	 exchange	 exposure,	 such	 as	 forward	 rate	 contracts	 and	 options.	 Details	 of	 the	 most	 significant	 of	 these	 instruments	 are	 described	 in	 note	 28	 of	 the	 Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements.	 The	 Group	 has	 a	 policy	 of	 managing	 12	 months	 of	 potential	 transactional	 exposure	 on	 a	 rolling	 three	 month	 basis,	 together	 with	 exposures	 for	 firm	 long-term	 contracts.	 As	 a	 consequence,	 the	 majority	 of	 the	 anticipated	 exposure	 to	 the	 US	 dollar	 	 in	 the	 UK	 and	 continental	 European	 subsidiaries	 is	 hedged	 at	 an	 average	 	 rate	 of	 1.93	 for	 sterling	 for	 2008.
Going concern
The	 Group’s	 finances	 are	 sound	 and	 	 the	 balance	 sheet	 remains	 strong.	 Accordingly,	 after	 making	 enquiries,	 the	 Directors	 have	 formed	 a	 judgement	 at	 the	 time	 of	 approving	 the	 financial	 statements	 that	 there	 is	 a	 reasonable	 expectation	 that	 the	 Company	 and	 the	 Group	 as	 a	 whole	 have	 adequate	 resources	 to	 continue	 in	 operational	 existence	 for	 the	 foreseeable	 future.	 For	 this	 reason	 they	 continue	 	 to	 adopt	 the	 going	 concern	 basis	 in	 preparing	 the	 Group	 and	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements. 23	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Corporate	 responsibility
Cobham’s	 progress	 in	 addressing	 the	 	 six	 focus	 areas	 identified	 in	 2006	 is	 summarised	 in	 the	 following	 pages.	 Further	 details	 are	 contained	 in	 the	 Group’s	 full	 Corporate	 Responsibility	 (CR)	 Report.	 The	six	focus	areas	and	their	associated	 performance	indicators	support	the	 achievement	of	Cobham’s	strategic	 objectives.	 Cobham	 will	 continue	 to	 collect	 data	 covering	 a	 broad	 range	 of	 CR	 measures	 through	 its	 business	 units.	 However	 resources	 will	 be	 targeted	 towards	 	 the	 implementation	 of	 initiatives	 and	 performance	 improvement	 in	 the	 six	 focus	 areas.
Cobham’s	 CR	 team	 analyses	 data	 and	 agrees	 objectives	 for	 improvement	 	 with	 Business	 Units.	 The	 Chief	 Executive	 has	 overall	 responsibility	 for	 CR	 performance,	 and	 ensures	 the	 Board	 takes	 account	 of	 CR	 issues	 in	 its	 annual	 risk	 assessment,	 and	 monitors	 progress	 throughout	 the	 year.
Staff safety
		 Reportable	 injuries
1
	 are	 down	 from	 73	 to	 54
		 The	 incident	 rate
2
	 has	 reduced	 from	 720	 per	 100,000	 employees	 to	 	 548	 per	 100,000.	 Nearly	 50%	 of	 accidents	 relate	 to	 three	 categories;	 handling/lifting/carrying,	 slips/trips/
falls	 and	 bending/twisting/sprains.	 Continuing	 risk	 improvement	 efforts	 will	 be	 focused	 on	 these	 areas	 as	 	 well	 as	 maintaining	 training	 and	 risk	 assessments	 throughout	 the	 business
		 A	 joint	 venture,	 FB	 Heliservices	 (FBH)	 in	 which	 Cobham	 has	 a	 50%	 interest	 experienced	 a	 fatality	 during	 a	 training	 operation	 at	 Tern	 Hill	 in	 the	 UK.	 As	 a	 result	 of	 a	 mid	 air	 collision	 between	 two	 FBH	 Squirrel	 helicopters,	 one	 captained	 by	 an	 MoD	 Qualified	 Helicopter	 Instructor	 (QHI)	 the	 other	 captained	 by	 an	 FBH	 QHI;	 the	 FBH	 employee	 received	 injuries	 resulting	 	 in	 his	 death.	 No	 prosecution	 resulted	 from	 the	 incident	 but	 changes	 to	 operational	 procedures	 have	 been	 implemented	 to	 improve	 future	 	 safety	 processes
		 Best	 Health	 &	 Safety	 (H&S)	 practice	 continues	 to	 be	 promoted	 throughout	 the	 Group	 through	 Cobham	 CSR	 	 audit	 recommendation	 processes	 	 and	 the	 loss	 prevention	 visits	 organised	 through	 Cobham’s	 Workers	 Compensation	 insurers	 in	 the	 USA.	 Associated	 advice	 on	 risk	 improvement	 is	 provided	 to	 businesses	 by	 Health	 	 &	 Safety	 experts.	 In	 addition	 Health	 	 &	 Safety	 Arrangements	 Corporate	 Guidelines	 are	 provided	 on	 the	 Cobham	 Extranet	 for	 businesses	 to	 utilise
		 Health	 &	 Safety	 Workers	 Compensation	 workshops	 in	 the	 	 US	 are	 well	 attended	 by	 Cobham	 businesses	 and	 corporate	 seminars	 are	 planned	 in	 2008	 in	 the	 US	 and	 	 the	 UK	 to	 cover	 key	 H&S	 issues	 	 and	 promote	 best	 practice
	 Progress	 has	 been	 made	 with	 many	 of	 the	 improvement	 targets	 set	 for	 2010	 already	 exceeded.	 In	 the	 UK,	 76%	 	 of	 the	 Group’s	 energy	 was	 supplied	 by	 renewable	 energy	 from	 1	 October.
Focus	 area Our	 aim
Staff safety To	 provide	 a	 safe,	 healthy	 work	 environment
Supply chain To	 ensure	 that	 our	 suppliers	 have	 appropriate	 environmental	 policies	 and	 that	 appropriate	 minimum	 standards	 for	 working	 conditions	 are	 met
Bribery and 
corruption To	 ensure	 that	 our	 business	 is	 free	 of	 any	 bribery	 or	 corruption
Carbon  
footprint
To	 accurately	 measure	 our	 carbon	 footprint	 and	 to	 seek	 to	 reduce	 our	 contribution	 by	 improving	 energy	 efficiency	 and	 seeking	 energy	 sources	 that	 do	 not	 contribute	 to	 climate	 change
Waste  
reduction
To	 reduce	 the	 waste	 produced	 at	 every	 stage	 of	 our	 product	 lifecycle	 and,	 where	 waste	 is	 produced,	 to	 reuse	 or	 recycle	 wherever	 possible
Chemicals  
and hazardous 
materials
To	 ensure	 that,	 in	 the	 production	 of	 our	 products,	 we	 do	 not	 adversely	 affect	 the	 health	 of	 our	 employees,	 neighbours	 or	 the	 environment
Key focus areas
1		 Reportable	 injuries	 and	 other	 occurrences	 mean	 work-related	 accidents,	 illness	 or	 disease	 resulting	 in	 more	 than	 three	 days’	 absence.	 2		 Incident	 rate	 is	 the	 total	 number	 of	 reportable	 injuries	 and	 other	 occurrences	 multiplied	 by	 100,000	 divided	 by	 the	 average	 number	 of	 employees. 24	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Water efﬁciency  
M
3
/£m
07
162
197
181
06
05
Waste efﬁciency
Tonnes/£m
07
4.82
5.27
5.65
06
05
Energy efﬁciency (inc. aviation fuel)
MWh/£m
07
1.498
1.892
1.965
06
05
Energy efﬁciency (excl. aviation fuel)
MWh/£m
07
104
105
133
06
05
Corporate	 responsibility	 continued
		 Cobham	 held	 an	 Energy	 Awareness	 Day	 with	 the	 aim	 of	 reducing	 the	 Group’s	 utilities	 cost	 base,	 whilst	 at	 the	 same	 time,	 improve	 the	 Group’s	 environmental	 performance	 by	 reducing	 carbon	 emissions.	 Topics	 included	 the	 importance	 of	 sharing	 best	 practice	 across	 the	 Group	 with	 	 a	 forum	 detailing	 common	 energy	 related	 issues
Waste reduction and recycling
		 Waste	 generated	 reduced	 from	 5,563	 to	 5,356	 tonnes,	 and	 the	 amount	 of	 waste	 generated	 per	 £m	 turnover	 	 also	 decreased	 from	 5.3	 to	 4.8	 tonnes.		 Total	 waste	 recycled	 rose	 from	 	 1,601	 tonnes	 in	 2006	 to	 2,238	 tonnes	 in	 2007,	 which	 is	 a	 40%	 increase
		 The	 Cobham	 waste	 target	 is	 to	 improve	 efficiency	 by	 10%	 of	 2005	 levels	 by	 2010	 (tonnes/£m	 turnover).	 During	 2007,	 a	 15%	 improvement	 on	 2005	 levels	 has	 been	 achieved.	 New	 targets	 for	 improvement	 are	 being	 set
		 Water	 consumption	 for	 prior	 years	 has	 been	 recalculated	 following	 identification	 of	 an	 error.	 Water	 consumption	 has	 reduced	 from	 199,879	 m
3
	 in	 2006	 to	 171,458	 m
3
	 in	 2007,	 which	 is	 a	 reduction	 of	 35	 m
3
	 per	 £m	 revenue	 from	 197	 to	 162
		 The	 Cobham	 water	 target	 is	 to	 improve	 efficiency	 by	 10%	 of	 2005	 levels	 by	 2010	 (m
3
/£m	 turnover).	 During	 2007,	 a	 43%	 improvement	 on	 2005	 levels	 has	 been	 achieved.	 New	 targets	 for	 improvement	 are	 being	 set
		 Progress	 was	 made	 in	 water	 and	 waste	 reduction	 and	 recycling	 across	 the	 Group,	 including	 a	 ‘zero	 discharge’	 status	 being	 awarded	 to	 one	 of	 our	 USA	 sites	 for	 treating	 used	 water	 for	 re-use	 through	 a	 manufacturing	 process,	 as	 well	 as	 improvement	 in	 measuring	 and	 monitoring	 methods	 Supply Chain
In	 line	 with	 Cobham’s	 commitment	 to	 Supply	 Chain	 21	 (SC21),	 the	 Group	 	 has	 now	 commenced	 work	 with	 partners	 and	 vendors	 to	 roll	 out	 SC21	 communications	 and	 training	 and	 a	 number	 of	 improvement	 workshops	 have	 already	 taken	 place.	 Work	 has	 also	 commenced	 to	 implement	 new	 Supply	 Chain	 Management	 processes	 across	 the	 Group’s	 UK	 businesses.
Bribery and corruption
Cobham	 is	 committed	 to	 complying	 	 with	 legislation	 in	 all	 the	 countries	 in	 which	 it	 operates.	 In	 2007,	 Cobham	 prepared	 to	 further	 reinforce	 its	 commitment	 by	 revising	 its	 ethical	 business	 policy	 and	 established	 a	 	 formal	 Business	 Ethics	 &	 Compliance	 Programme	 called	 ‘Integrity	 In	 Action’	 for	 implementation	 in	 the	 first	 quarter	 	 of	 2008.	 Carbon footprint
		 2007	 has	 seen	 further	 improvement	 in	 energy	 efficiency	 across	 the	 Group	 resulting	 in	 a	 21%	 decrease	 from	 1,892MWh/£m	 revenue	 to	 1,498MWh/
£m	 revenue.	 When	 focusing	 on	 energy	 excluding	 Aviation	 Fuel,	 	 there	 has	 been	 a	 1%	 improvement
		 The	 Cobham	 carbon	 footprint	 target	 is	 to	 improve	 efficiency	 by	 10%	 of	 2005	 levels	 by	 2010	 (MWh/£m	 turnover).	 During	 2007,	 a	 24%	 improvement	 on	 2005	 levels	 has	 been	 achieved.	 New	 targets	 for	 improvement	 are	 being	 set
		 The	 total	 energy	 management	 programme	 for	 UK	 business	 units	 is	 now	 underway.	 After	 the	 first	 ten	 months	 of	 the	 contract	 the	 total	 kWh	 savings	 across	 the	 14	 Cobham	 manufacturing	 sites	 totalled	 2.27GWh,	 which	 equates	 to	 approximately	 738	 tonnes	 of	 CO
2
		 76%	 of	 the	 Group’s	 UK	 business	 units	 are	 ‘Green’	 –	 supplied	 by	 renewable	 energy	 from	 1st	 October	 2007 26	 Cobham	plc	 Annual	Report	and	Accounts	2007
Board	of	Directors
 2 3
 4 5 6
7  9 25	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Dividend
pence
07
54
73
75
06
05
Earnings per Ordinary share – underlying
pence
07
548
720
677
06
05
Reportable injuries Incidence rate
per	 100,000	 employees
Dividend
pence
07
54
73
75
06
05
Earnings per Ordinary share – underlying
pence
07
548
720
677
06
05
Chemicals and hazardous materials
		 Hazardous	 waste	 makes	 up	 10%,	 and	 non-hazardous	 waste	 makes	 up	 90%,	 of	 total	 waste	 production
		 Further	 Hazardous	 Materials	 training	 has	 been	 given	 to	 selected	 employees	 through	 2007
		 A	 US	 site	 has	 a	 new	 system,	 which	 reduced	 the	 amount	 of	 coating	 used	 per	 printed	 circuit	 board	 by	 85%,	 reduced	 its	 air	 emissions	 by	 75%,	 eliminated	 50	 gallons	 per	 year	 of	 hazardous	 chemicals	 and	 flammable	 waste,	 and	 reduced	 its	 production	 cycle	 time	 by	 an	 entire	 day
		 Cobham	 is	 committed	 to	 complying	 with	 the	 requirements	 of	 REACH	 (Registration,	 Evaluation,	 Authorisation	 and	 Restriction	 of	 Chemical	 Substances)	 legislation	 in	 the	 EU	 and	 has	 retained	 industry	 environmental	 regulatory	 experts	 to	 assist	 in	 ensuring	 that	 Cobham	 business	 units	 take	 appropriate	 steps	 to	 respond.	 While	 the	 development	 of	 REACH	 is	 at	 an	 early	 stage,	 Cobham	 has	 already	 identified	 and	 is	 addressing	 several	 key	 areas
Community
At	 Group	 level,	 Cobham	 continues	 to	 direct	 its	 community	 support	 at	 national	 campaigns.	 Business	 units	 are	 encouraged	 to	 engage	 with	 local	 communities	 where	 their	 products	 and	 services	 are	 sold	 and	 in	 which	 employees	 work	 and	 live.
Priority	 is	 given	 to	 causes	 directly	 supporting	 the	 achievement	 of	 educational,	 engineering	 and	 scientific	 objectives,	 related	 to	 the	 development	 of	 a	 responsible,	 sustainable	 aerospace	 and	 defence	 industry.	 As	 more	 than	 50%	 of	 Cobham’s	 revenues	 are	 	 from	 the	 military	 market,	 the	 Group	 	 also	 supports	 those	 who	 have	 served	 	 or	 are	 serving	 in	 the	 Armed	 Forces.
Throughout	 2007,	 Cobham	 continued	 	 to	 be	 a	 corporate	 sponsor	 and	 partner	 	 of	 the	 following	 organisations:	 		 Soldiers,	 Sailors,	 Airmen	 and	 Families	 Association	 (SSAFA)	 Forces	 help
	 The	 Science	 Museum
		 Young	 Engineers
	 Data verification
Cobham	 is	 committed	 to	 providing	 reliable	 information	 regarding	 its	 Corporate	 Responsibility	 performance.	 An	 internal	 verification	 programme	 began	 in	 2004,	 checking	 compliance	 with	 Group	 standards,	 monitoring	 systems	 and	 raw	 data.	 During	 2007,	 	 19	 business	 units,	 representing	 42%	 	 of	 the	 Group	 by	 turnover,	 across	 the	 USA,	 Europe	 and	 South	 Africa	 were	 subject	 to	 the	 verification	 process.	 	 Any	 data	 errors	 identified	 were	 corrected	 in	 the	 totals	 for	 the	 relevant	 reporting	 year.	 Business	 units	 are	 required	 to	 provide	 an	 action	 plan	 to	 address	 any	 recommendation	 made.	 The	 action	 plans	 are	 reviewed	 regularly	 at	 Group	 level.	 Data	 is	 reconciled	 to	 account	 for	 acquisitions	 and	 disposals,	 and	 changes	 in	 foreign	 exchange	 rates.
A	 Cobham	 business	 unit	 in	 France	 is	 one	 of	 the	 leading	 suppliers	 of	 slip	 rings	 for	 wind	 turbines. 27	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
 . G F Page CBE, DL, MA, FRAeS 
Non-executive	 Chairman	 Appointed	 to	 the	 Board	 in	 1990,	 	 Gordon	 Page,	 age	 64,	 joined	 the	 Group	 as	 Managing	 Director	 of	 Flight	 Refuelling	 Limited	 having	 previously	 been	 Commercial	 Director	 –	 military	 engines	 	 of	 Rolls-Royce	 plc.	 He	 was	 appointed	 Deputy	 Chief	 Executive	 in	 1991,	 	 Chief	 Executive	 in	 1992	 and	 Chairman	 in	 November	 2001.	 He	 is	 Chairman	 of	 the	 Government’s	 Department	 for	 Business	 Enterprise	 and	 Regulatory	 Reform	 Industrial	 Development	 Advisory	 Board,	 Non-executive	 Chairman	 of	 Hamworthy	 plc,	 FKI	 plc,	 Air	 Tanker	 Holdings	 Limited	 and	 PHWarr	 plc,	 a	 Director	 of	 Lockheed	 Martin	 UK	 Holdings	 Limited	 and	 a	 Governor	 of	 Canford	 School.	 He	 is	 Pro	 Chancellor	 of	 Cranfield	 University	 and	 is	 	 a	 Past-President	 of	 the	 Royal	 Aeronautical	 Society,	 The	 Society	 of	 British	 Aerospace	 Companies	 Ltd	 and	 of	 the	 Chartered	 Management	 Institute.	 He	 is	 Chairman	 of	 the	 nomination	 committee.	 	 2. D J Turner 
Independent	 Non-executive	 Deputy	 Chairman	 Appointed	 to	 the	 Board	 as	 	 Non-executive	 Deputy	 Chairman	 in	 2007,	 David	 Turner,	 who	 is	 a	 chartered	 accountant	 and	 aged	 63,	 is	 also	 a	 	 Non-executive	 Director	 of	 the	 Commonwealth	 Bank	 of	 Australia.	 	 He	 was	 previously	 Chief	 Executive	 at	 Brambles	 Industries	 Limited	 between	 2003	 and	 2007	 and	 Finance	 Director	 	 at	 the	 same	 company	 between	 2001	 and	 2003.	 Prior	 to	 that	 he	 was	 Group	 Finance	 Director	 at	 GKN	 plc	 from	 1994.	 He	 was	 a	 Non-executive	 Director	 of	 Whitbread	 plc	 until	 2006.	 He	 is	 a	 member	 of	 the	 audit,	 nomination	 	 and	 remuneration	 committees.	 	 3. A E Cook CBE, BSc, CEng, FRAeS 
Chief	 Executive
Appointed	 to	 the	 Board	 in	 2001,	 	 Allan	 Cook,	 age	 58,	 joined	 the	 Group	 from	 BAE	 Systems	 where	 he	 was	 Group	 Managing	 Director	 of	 programmes	 and	 Managing	 Director	 of	 Eurofighter.	 He	 was	 formerly	 Group	 Managing	 Director	 	 of	 GEC-Marconi	 Avionics	 and	 Chief	 Executive	 of	 Hughes	 Aircraft	 (Europe).	 He	 is	 also	 President	 of	 The	 Society	 	 of	 British	 Aerospace	 Companies	 Ltd,	 Chair	 of	 the	 National	 Skills	 Academy	 for	 Manufacturing,	 board	 member	 of	 the	 Industrial	 Forum	 and	 board	 member	 of	 the	 UK	 Ministerial	 Advisory	 Group	 for	 Manufacturing.	 He	 is	 a	 member	 of	 the	 nomination	 committee.	 	 4. W G Tucker BSc, ACA, MBA 
Chief	 Financial	 Officer
Appointed	 to	 the	 Board	 in	 2003,	 Warren	 Tucker,	 age	 45,	 joined	 the	 Group	 as	 Group	 Financial	 Director.	 Prior	 to	 joining	 he	 qualified	 as	 a	 chartered	 accountant,	 worked	 at	 Lazard,	 held	 senior	 finance	 positions	 at	 British	 Airways	 plc	 and	 	 was	 Deputy	 Group	 Financial	 Director	 	 of	 Cable	 and	 Wireless	 plc.	 	 5. A J Stevens BSc, CEng, FIET, FRAeS 
Chief	 Operating	 Officer	 Appointed	 to	 the	 Board	 in	 2003,	 Andy	 Stevens,	 age	 51,	 joined	 the	 Group	 as	 Managing	 Director	 of	 the	 Aerospace	 Systems	 Group.	 Prior	 to	 joining	 he	 qualified	 as	 a	 chartered	 engineer	 at	 Dowty	 Group	 and	 subsequently	 became	 Chief	 Operating	 Officer	 of	 Messier	 Dowty	 International	 before	 joining	 	 Rolls-Royce	 as	 Managing	 Director,	 defence	 aerospace.	 He	 was	 appointed	 Chief	 Operating	 Officer	 in	 September	 2005.	 In	 January	 2008	 his	 responsibilities	 were	 extended	 to	 include	 P&L	 for	 all	 Cobham	 Divisions.	 	 6. M Beresford CBE, MAMechSc, FIEE 
Independent	 Non-executive	 Director	 Appointed	 to	 the	 Board	 as	 a	 Non-
executive	 Director	 and	 first	 elected	 by	 shareholders	 in	 2004,	 Marcus	 Beresford,	 age	 65,	 is	 Chairman	 of	 Ricardo	 plc	 and	 was	 a	 Non-executive	 Director	 of	 Spirent	 PLC	 until	 late	 2006.	 He	 was	 an	 Executive	 Director	 of	 GKN	 plc	 from	 1992-2002	 and	 Chief	 Executive	 from	 2001-2002.	 He	 is	 the	 Senior	 Independent	 Director	 and	 is	 	 a	 member	 of	 the	 nomination,	 audit	 and	 remuneration	 committees.	 	 7. P Hooley FCA, MSc 
Independent	 Non-executive	 Director	 Appointed	 to	 the	 Board	 as	 a	 Non-
executive	 Director	 in	 2002	 and	 first	 elected	 by	 shareholders	 in	 2003,	 	 Peter	 Hooley,	 who	 is	 a	 chartered	 accountant,	 is	 aged	 61	 and	 was	 Group	 Finance	 Director	 of	 Smith	 &	 Nephew	 plc	 until	 mid-2006.	 In	 July	 2006	 he	 was	 appointed	 Non-executive	 Chairman	 of	 BSNmedical	 Luxembourg	 Holdings	 	 Sarl,	 a	 group	 engaged	 in	 medical	 textile	 products.	 Previously	 he	 was	 a	 Non-
executive	 Director	 of	 Powell	 Duffryn	 plc	 from	 1997	 to	 2000.	 He	 is	 Chairman	 of	 the	 audit	 committee	 and	 also	 a	 member	 of	 the	 nomination	 and	 remuneration	 committees.
	  . J S Patterson CBE, MBChB, FRCP, 
Fmed Sci 
Independent	 Non-executive	 Director	 Appointed	 to	 the	 Board	 as	 a	 	 Non-executive	 Director	 in	 2005,	 	 John	 Patterson,	 age	 60,	 qualified	 in	 medicine	 in	 1971	 and	 obtained	 a	 Membership	 (now	 Fellowship)	 of	 the	 Royal	 College	 of	 Physicians	 in	 1974.	 	 He	 joined	 ICI	 (now	 AstraZeneca)	 in	 	 1975	 and	 in	 December	 2004	 John	 	 was	 appointed	 to	 the	 main	 Board	 as	 Executive	 Director	 responsible	 for	 development.	 He	 is	 a	 Director	 of	 the	 British	 Pharma	 Group	 and	 is	 a	 former	 President	 of	 the	 Association	 of	 the	 British	 Pharmaceutical	 Industry,	 	 a	 former	 Non-executive	 Director	 of	 Amersham	 PLC	 and	 a	 former	 member	 of	 the	 supervisory	 board	 of	 the	 UK	 Medicines	 Control	 Agency.	 He	 is	 Chairman	 of	 the	 remuneration	 committee	 and	 a	 member	 of	 the	 nomination	 and	 audit	 committees.	 	 9. M H Ronald CBE, BA, BScEE, 
MScEE 
Independent	 Non-executive	 Director
Appointed	 to	 the	 Board	 as	 a	 Non-
executive	 Director	 in	 2007,	 Mark	 Ronald,	 age	 66,	 was,	 until	 his	 retirement	 at	 the	 end	 of	 2006,	 Chief	 Operating	 Officer	 of	 BAE	 Systems	 plc	 and	 Chief	 Executive	 Officer	 of	 BAE	 Systems	 Inc,	 its	 wholly-
owned	 US	 subsidiary.	 Previously	 he	 was	 Vice-President,	 program	 management	 with	 Litton	 Industries	 and	 Chief	 Operating	 Officer	 of	 AEL	 Industries.	 Mark	 is	 currently	 a	 Non-executive	 Director	 of	 ATK	 Inc	 and	 DynCorp	 International	 Inc	 and	 Non-executive	 Chairman	 of	 BAE	 Systems	 Inc.	 	 He	 is	 a	 senior	 adviser	 of	 Veritas	 Capital	 LLC	 and	 a	 management	 consultant.	 	 He	 is	 a	 member	 of	 the	 nomination	 	 and	 remuneration	 committees.	 Retirements
Jeff	 Edington	 retired	 from	 the	 Board	 in	 June	 and	 Alex	 Hannam	 in	 December	 2007. 28	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Directors’	 report
The	 Directors	 present	 their	 report	 and	 the	 audited	 Group	 and	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 of	 Cobham	 plc	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2007.
Business review
The	 Chairman’s	 statement	 on	 page	 4	 of	 the	 Annual	 Report	 together	 with	 the	 Chief	 Executive’s	 review	 on	 pages	 5	 to	 7,	 the	 Business	 review	 on	 pages	 10	 to	 17,	 the	 Financial	 review	 on	 pages	 18	 to	 22	 and	 the	 Corporate	 Responsibility	 section	 	 on	 pages	 23	 to	 25	 contain	 information	 that	 fulfils	 the	 requirements	 of	 the	 statutory	 business	 review	 and	 are	 incorporated	 in	 this	 Directors’	 report	 by	 reference.	 The	 statutory	 business	 review	 is	 addressed	 only	 to	 shareholders	 and	 its	 purpose	 is	 to	 provide	 a	 review	 of	 the	 business	 and	 to	 explain	 the	 principal	 risks	 and	 uncertainties	 facing	 the	 Group.	 The	 Annual	 Report	 contains	 certain	 forward	 looking	 statements	 with	 regard	 to	 the	 operations,	 performance	 	 and	 financial	 condition	 of	 the	 Group.	 By	 their	 nature,	 these	 statements	 involve	 uncertainty	 since	 future	 events	 and	 circumstances	 can	 cause	 results	 to	 differ	 from	 those	 anticipated.	 Nothing	 contained	 in	 this	 Annual	 Report	 should	 	 be	 construed	 as	 a	 profit	 forecast.
Principal activities
		 Providing	 a	 suite	 of	 end-to-end	 avionics	 products,	 law	 enforcement	 and	 national	 security	 solutions,	 and	 satellite	 communication	 equipment	 for	 land,	 sea	 and	 air	 applications
		 Critical	 technology	 for	 network	 centric	 operations,	 moving	 information	 around	 the	 digital	 battlefield,	 with	 customised	 and	 off-the-shelf	 solutions	 for	 people	 and	 systems	 to	 communicate	 on	 land,	 sea	 and	 air
		 Providing	 safety	 and	 survival	 systems	 for	 extreme	 environments,	 nose-to-tail	 refuelling	 systems	 and	 wing-tip	 to	 wing-tip	 mission	 systems	 for	 fast	 jets,	 transport	 aircraft	 and	 rotor	 craft
		 Delivering	 outsourced	 aviation	 services	 for	 military	 and	 civil	 customers	 worldwide	 through	 military	 training,	 special	 mission	 flight	 operations,	 outsourced	 commercial	 aviation	 and	 aircraft	 engineering
	 Dividends
An	 interim	 dividend	 of	 1.22p	 per	 Ordinary	 Share	 (2006:	 1.11p)	 was	 paid	 in	 December	 2007.	 The	 Directors	 are	 recommending	 a	 final	 dividend	 of	 3.28p	 per	 Ordinary	 Share	 (2006:	 2.64p)	 payable	 on	 1	 July	 2008	 to	 ordinary	 shareholders	 on	 the	 register	 as	 at	 30	 May	 2008,	 making	 a	 total	 ordinary	 dividend	 for	 the	 year	 of	 4.50p	 (2006:	 3.75p).	 Board of Directors
The	 current	 Directors	 are	 listed,	 together	 with	 short	 biographical	 notes,	 on	 page	 27.	 They	 held	 office	 throughout	 the	 year	 with	 the	 exceptions	 of	 Mark	 Ronald,	 who	 was	 appointed	 on	 8	 January	 2007,	 and	 David	 Turner,	 who	 was	 appointed	 on	 1	 December	 2007.	 In	 addition,	 Jeff	 Edington	 and	 Alex	 Hannam	 were	 Directors	 until	 their	 retirements	 on	 6	 June	 2007	 and	 31	 December	 2007	 respectively.
The	 rules	 for	 the	 appointment	 and	 replacement	 of	 Directors	 are	 set	 out	 in	 the	 Company’s	 Articles	 of	 Association	 (the	 ‘Articles’)	 copies	 of	 which	 can	 be	 obtained	 from	 Companies	 House	 in	 the	 UK	 or	 by	 contacting	 the	 Company	 Secretary.	 Changes	 to	 the	 Articles	 must	 be	 approved	 by	 shareholders	 passing	 a	 special	 resolution.	 The	 Directors	 and	 the	 Company	 (by	 ordinary	 resolution)	 may	 appoint	 a	 person	 who	 is	 willing	 to	 act	 as	 a	 Director,	 either	 to	 fill	 a	 vacancy	 or	 as	 an	 additional	 Director.	 The	 Articles	 require	 Directors	 who	 have	 been	 appointed	 by	 	 the	 Board	 since	 the	 previous	 Annual	 General	 Meeting	 (‘AGM’)	 or	 who	 have	 held	 office	 for	 three	 years	 or	 more	 since	 their	 previous	 appointment	 by	 shareholders	 or	 who,	 being	 non-
executive,	 have	 held	 office	 for	 nine	 years	 or	 more	 since	 	 their	 first	 appointment	 by	 shareholders,	 to	 retire	 from	 office.	 Accordingly,	 Gordon	 Page	 and	 David	 Turner	 will	 retire	 from	 office	 at	 the	 forthcoming	 AGM	 and,	 being	 eligible,	 will	 offer	 themselves	 for	 re-appointment.	 Neither	 of	 these	 Directors	 has	 a	 service	 contract	 with	 the	 Company.	 Subject	to	the	Company’s	Memorandum	and	Articles	of	 Association,	UK	legislation	and	any	directions	given	by	 resolutions	 of	 the	 Company,	 the	 business	 of	 the	 Company	 is	 managed	 by	 the	 Board.	 The	 Directors	 have	 been	 authorised	 to	 allot	 and	 issue	 Ordinary	 Shares	 and	 to	 make	 market	 purchases	 of	 Ordinary	 Shares.	 These	 powers	 are	 exercised	 under	 authority	 of	 resolutions	 passed	 at	 the	 Company’s	 AGM.
Directors’ indemnity arrangements
The	 Company	 has	 entered	 into	 qualifying	 third	 party	 indemnity	 arrangements	 for	 the	 benefit	 of	 all	 its	 Directors	 in	 a	 form	 and	 scope	 which	 comply	 with	 the	 requirements	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 2006.
Directors’ interests
None	 of	 the	 Directors	 is	 or	 was	 materially	 interested	 in	 any	 significant	 contract	 during	 or	 at	 the	 end	 of	 the	 financial	 year	 particulars	 of	 which	 are	 required	 to	 be	 disclosed	 by	 the	 Financial	 Services	 Authority’s	 Listing	 Rules.
Details	 of	 Directors’	 share	 interests	 and	 of	 their	 rights	 to	 subscribe	 for	 shares	 are	 shown	 in	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 on	 pages	 35	 to	 41.
Corporate governance
The	 Company’s	 statement	 on	 corporate	 governance	 is	 set	 out	 on	 pages	 31	 to	 34.
Share capital
Details	 of	 movements	 in	 the	 share	 capital	 of	 the	 Company	 during	 the	 year	 are	 given	 in	 note	 29	 of	 the	 Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 and	 note	 10	 of	 the	 Notes	 to	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 respectively.
At	 the	 AGM	 held	 on	 6	 June	 2007	 the	 Company	 was	 authorised	 to	 purchase	 up	 to	 113,386,928	 Ordinary	 Shares.	 This	 authority	 will	 expire	 at	 the	 conclusion	 of	 the	 2008	 AGM.	 Although	 no	 Ordinary	 Shares	 have	 been	 purchased	 by	 the	 Company	 during	 the	 period	 from	 6	 June	 2007	 to	 the	 date	 of	 this	 report,	 a	 special	 resolution	 will	 be	 put	 to	 shareholders	 at	 the	 AGM	 to	 renew	 the	 authority	 to	 make	 market	 purchases	 of	 the	 Company’s	 shares	 up	 to	 a	 maximum	 of	 10%	 of	 the	 share	 capital	 of	 the	 Company.
The	 rights	 and	 obligations	 attaching	 to	 the	 Company’s	 Ordinary	 Shares	 and	 Preference	 Shares	 are	 set	 out	 in	 the	 Articles.	 29	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Subject	 to	 applicable	 statutes,	 and	 to	 the	 rights	 conferred	 on	 the	 holders	 of	 any	 other	 shares,	 shares	 may	 be	 issued	 with	 such	 rights	 and	 restrictions	 as	 the	 Company	 may	 by	 ordinary	 resolution	 decide	 or	 (if	 there	 is	 no	 such	 resolution	 or	 so	 far	 as	 the	 resolution	 does	 not	 make	 specific	 provision)	 as	 the	 Board	 may	 decide.	 Holders	 of	 Ordinary	 Shares	 are	 entitled	 to	 attend	 and	 speak	 at	 general	 meetings	 of	 the	 Company,	 to	 appoint	 	 one	 or	 more	 proxies	 and,	 if	 they	 are	 corporations,	 corporate	 representatives	 and	 to	 exercise	 voting	 rights.	 Holders	 of	 Ordinary	 Shares	 may	 receive	 a	 dividend	 and	 on	 a	 liquidation	 may	 share	 in	 the	 assets	 of	 the	 Company.	 Holders	 of	 Ordinary	 Shares	 are	 entitled	 to	 receive	 the	 Company’s	 annual	 reports.	 Subject	 to	 meeting	 certain	 thresholds,	 holders	 of	 Ordinary	 Shares	 may	 requisition	 a	 general	 meeting	 of	 the	 Company	 or	 the	 proposal	 of	 a	 resolution	 at	 an	 AGM.	 Information	 relating	 to	 the	 rights	 of	 preference	 shareholders	 is	 contained	 in	 the	 notes	 referred	 to	 above.
Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares
On	 a	 show	 of	 hands	 at	 a	 general	 meeting	 of	 the	 Company	 every	 holder	 of	 shares	 present	 in	 person	 or	 by	 proxy	 and	 entitled	 to	 vote	 has	 one	 vote	 and	 on	 a	 poll	 every	 member	 present	 in	 person	 or	 by	 proxy	 and	 entitled	 to	 vote	 has	 one	 vote	 for	 every	 £1	 in	 nominal	 value	 of	 the	 shares	 of	 which	 he	 is	 the	 holder.	 None	 of	 the	 Ordinary	 Shares	 carry	 any	 special	 rights	 with	 regard	 to	 control	 of	 the	 Company.
There	 are	 no	 restrictions	 on	 transfers	 of	 shares	 other	 than:
		 Certain	 restrictions	 which	 may	 from	 time	 to	 time	 be	 imposed	 by	 laws	 or	 regulations	 such	 as	 those	 relating	 to	 insider	 dealing
		 Pursuant	 to	 the	 Company’s	 code	 for	 securities	 transactions	 whereby	 the	 Directors	 and	 designated	 employees	 require	 approval	 to	 deal	 in	 the	 Company’s	 shares
		 Where	 a	 person	 with	 an	 interest	 in	 the	 Company’s	 shares	 has	 been	 served	 with	 a	 disclosure	 notice	 and	 has	 failed	 to	 provide	 the	 Company	 with	 information	 concerning	 interests	 in	 those	 shares.
The	 Company	 is	 not	 aware	 of	 any	 arrangements	 between	 shareholders	 that	 may	 result	 in	 restrictions	 on	 the	 transfer	 	 of	 securities	 or	 voting	 rights.
Significant arrangements – change of control
The	 Company	 is	 party	 to	 the	 following	 significant	 	 agreements	 which	 contain	 provisions	 which	 take	 effect,	 alter	 or	 terminate	 upon	 a	 change	 of	 control	 of	 the	 Company	 following	 a	 takeover	 bid:
		 Under	 the	 £300m	 five-year	 multi-currency	 credit	 agreement	 entered	 into	 in	 July	 2005,	 the	 Company	 must,	 in	 the	 event	 of	 a	 change	 of	 control,	 repay	 within	 30	 days	 all	 drawings,	 accrued	 interest,	 fees	 and	 other	 sums	 owing.	 Information	 relating	 to	 drawings	 at	 the	 year	 end	 is	 contained	 on	 page	 22	 of	 the	 Financial	 Review.
		 Under	 the	 private	 placement	 of	 guaranteed	 senior	 notes	 of	 2002	 whereby	 US$225m	 was	 raised,	 the	 Company	 must,	 	 in	 the	 event	 of	 a	 change	 of	 control,	 offer	 to	 repay	 the	 notes.	 Any	 prepayment	 shall	 be	 at	 100%	 of	 the	 principal	 amount	 	 of	 the	 notes	 plus,	 save	 in	 certain	 cases,	 a	 modified	 make-
whole	 amount	 with	 respect	 to	 such	 principal	 amount	 together	 with	 accrued	 interest.	 		 Under	 the	 US$700m	 short-term	 acquisition	 facility	 agreement	 entered	 into	 in	 January	 2008,	 the	 Company	 must,	 in	 the	 event	 of	 a	 change	 of	 control,	 repay	 within	 30	 days	 all	 drawings,	 accrued	 interest,	 fees	 and	 other	 	 sums	 owing.
Further	 information	 relating	 to	 change	 of	 control	 appears	 	 in	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 on	 pages	 36	 and	 37	 	 under	 the	 heading	 Performance	 Share	 Plan	 and	 Executive	 	 Share	 Option	 Scheme.
Employee share schemes – rights of control
If	 required	 to	 do	 so	 by	 the	 Company,	 the	 trustee	 of	 the	 Cobham	 Share	 Incentive	 Plan	 (the	 Plan)	 will,	 on	 receipt	 of	 notice	 from	 the	 Company	 of	 any	 offer,	 compromise,	 arrangement	 or	 scheme	 which	 affects	 shares	 held	 in	 the	 Plan,	 invite	 participants	 to	 direct	 the	 trustee	 on	 the	 exercise	 of	 any	 voting	 rights	 attaching	 to	 the	 shares	 held	 by	 the	 trustee	 on	 their	 behalf	 and/or	 direct	 how	 the	 trustee	 shall	 act	 in	 relation	 to	 those	 shares.	 The	 trustee	 will	 not	 vote	 in	 respect	 of	 any	 shares	 held	 in	 the	 Plan	 in	 respect	 of	 which	 it	 has	 received	 no	 directions	 nor	 in	 respect	 of	 any	 shares	 which	 are	 unallocated	 under	 the	 Plan.	 The	 trustee	 of	 the	 Cobham	 Employee	 Share	 Trust	 (the	 Trust),	 which	 is	 used	 in	 connection	 with	 the	 Cobham	 Long-Term	 Incentive	 Plan,	 has	 the	 power	 to	 vote	 or	 not	 vote	 at	 its	 discretion	 in	 respect	 of	 any	 shares	 in	 the	 Company	 held	 in	 	 the	 Trust.
Research and development
The	 Group	 continues	 to	 invest	 in	 the	 important	 area	 of	 Research	 and	 Development.	 During	 the	 year	 the	 Group	 expended	 £55.0m	 (2006:	 £49.3m)	 on	 non	 customer	 funded	 Research	 and	 Development.	 The	 management	 of	 each	 	 Group	 business	 is	 responsible	 for	 identifying	 and	 carrying	 	 out	 suitable	 research	 and	 development	 programmes	 having	 regard	 to	 particular	 market	 and	 product	 needs.
Further	 information	 on	 research	 and	 development	 appears	 	 on	 pages	 6	 and	 20.
Major interests in shares
As	 at	 6	 March	 2008,	 being	 a	 date	 not	 more	 than	 a	 month	 	 prior	 to	 the	 date	 of	 the	 AGM	 notice,	 the	 Company	 had	 been	 notified	 of	 the	 following	 interests	 of	 3%	 or	 more	 in	 the	 Company’s	 Ordinary	 Shares:
Number
of	 shares
Percentage
at	 date	 of
notification
Legal	 &	 General	 Investment
Management	 Ltd 79,427,925 7.00
Lloyds	 TSB	 Group	 plc 79,161,245 6.98
Gestión	 y	 Asesoramiento	 Rio	 Ebro	 S.L. 57,000,000 5.02
Aviva	 plc 55,962,356 4.93
AXA	 SA 55,938,248 4.93
Newton	 Management	 Ltd 55,108,688 4.87
Barclays	 plc 38,994,753 3.43
Cater	 Allen	 International	 Ltd 36,300,000 3.20 30	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Financial instruments
Note	 26	 of	 the	 Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 	 and	 note	 12	 of	 the	 Notes	 to	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 contain	 disclosures	 relating	 to	 the	 use	 of	 	 financial	 instruments.
People
At	 the	 end	 of	 2007,	 Cobham	 employed	 9,500	 people	 on	 	 five	 continents	 with	 major	 population	 centres	 in	 the	 UK,	 continental	 Europe,	 North	 America	 and	 Australia.	 Across	 Cobham,	 implementation	 of	 organisational	 structures	 designed	 to	 support	 the	 Group’s	 declared	 strategy	 of	 building	 its	 capabilities	 across	 all	 functions	 continued	 with	 an	 emphasis	 on	 collaboration	 to	 better	 utilise	 resources	 and	 increase	 opportunities	 for	 personal	 and	 professional	 development.	 	 In	 support	 of	 this	 a	 root	 and	 branch	 review	 of	 long-term	 incentive	 design	 was	 completed	 resulting	 in	 the	 implementation	 of	 	 a	 new	 incentive	 programme	 and	 new	 talent	 management	 programmes,	 focusing	 on	 leadership	 development.	 In	 addition	 employee	 performance	 management	 systems	 were	 updated.	 Strategic	 staffing	 initiatives	 across	 the	 Company	 were	 also	 supported,	 including	 the	 deployment	 of	 a	 graduate	 resourcing	 programme	 open	 to	 all	 Cobham	 Companies	 in	 the	 UK.	 Cobham	 is	 committed	 to	 equal	 opportunities	 for	 all	 of	 its	 employees.	 The	 Group	 aims	 to	 ensure	 that	 the	 workplace	 is	 free	 from	 discrimination;	 recruitment,	 selection	 and	 career	 development	 are	 based	 on	 competence	 and	 job	 requirements,	 irrespective	 of	 race,	 sex,	 sexual	 preference,	 religion,	 or	 disability.	 Cobham	 recognises	 that	 there	 is	 work	 to	 be	 done	 	 to	 fully	 achieve	 its	 objectives	 in	 this	 area,	 but	 continues	 to	 monitor	 and	 improve	 its	 policies	 and	 practices	 to	 reflect	 the	 requirements	 of	 UK	 age	 discrimination	 legislation.	 With	 regard	 to	 employees	 who	 become	 disabled,	 the	 policy	 is	 to	 take	 all	 reasonable	 steps,	 including	 retraining,	 to	 ensure	 that	 they	 can	 remain	 in	 employment	 wherever	 practicable.
The	 importance	 of	 employee	 development	 and	 training	 is	 recognised	 and	 Group	 businesses	 are	 required	 to	 encourage	 employees	 to	 take	 advantage	 of	 available	 and	 relevant	 training	 programmes	 and	 opportunities	 for	 advancement.
The	 Group	 encourages	 employee	 participation	 and	 consultation	 at	 all	 levels	 and	 also	 the	 sharing	 of	 relevant	 business	 information.	 Such	 an	 approach	 facilitates	 the	 development	 of	 new	 ideas	 and	 practices	 that	 add	 value	 to	 	 the	 business,	 promotes	 team	 member	 commitment	 and	 	 helps	 to	 focus	 Company	 and	 employee	 expectations.	 	 In-house	 newsletters,	 intranet,	 extranet	 and	 internet	 communications,	 Company	 announcements,	 team	 meetings	 and	 suggestion	 schemes	 all	 play	 a	 part	 in	 this	 process.	 UK	 employees	 are	 given	 the	 opportunity	 to	 become	 shareholders	 	 in	 the	 Company	 through	 the	 Cobham	 Savings	 Related	 Share	 Option	 Scheme	 and	 the	 Cobham	 Share	 Incentive	 Plan.	 	 Under	 the	 former,	 employees	 can	 acquire	 shares	 through	 the	 exercise	 of	 options	 granted	 at	 a	 20%	 discount	 to	 market	 value	 with	 savings	 made	 over	 three,	 five	 or	 seven	 years.	 Under	 the	 latter,	 shares	 may	 be	 purchased	 out	 of	 pre-tax	 income.
Corporate Responsibility
Information	 in	 relation	 to	 the	 Group’s	 commitment	 to	 Corporate	 Responsibility	 (including	 additional	 information	 in	 relation	 to	 employment	 matters)	 is	 set	 out	 on	 pages	 23	 to	 25.
Creditors payment policy
Payment	 is	 generally	 made	 by	 Group	 companies	 to	 their	 creditors	 in	 accordance	 with	 agreed	 terms	 of	 business	 provided	 that	 those	 terms	 have	 been	 met.	 It	 is	 the	 policy	 of	 the	 parent	 company	 that	 all	 invoices	 are	 paid	 within	 30	 days	 following	 the	 end	 of	 the	 month	 in	 which	 the	 invoices	 are	 approved.	 The	 total	 amount	 of	 the	 parent	 company’s	 trade	 creditors	 falling	 due	 within	 one	 year	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 represents	 49	 days’	 (2006:	 46	 days)	 worth	 as	 a	 proportion	 of	 the	 total	 amount	 invoiced	 by	 suppliers	 during	 the	 year	 ended	 on	 that	 date.
Post balance sheet events
Note	 38	 of	 the	 Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 Financial	 Statements	 contains	 information	 in	 respect	 of	 post	 balance	 sheet	 events.
Political and charitable gifts
No	 contributions	 were	 made	 to	 political	 organisations.	 The	 amount	 donated	 during	 the	 year	 for	 charitable	 purposes	 was	 £67,744	 (2006:	 £77,846).	 Of	 this	 sum,	 donations	 in	 excess	 of	 £200	 to	 UK	 charities	 were	 made	 to	 the	 value	 of	 £10,100	 to	 armed	 services	 charities,	 £2,450	 to	 health	 charities,	 £1,155	 	 to	 rescue	 service	 charities,	 £11,203	 to	 business	 enterprise	 charities	 and	 £1,482	 to	 local	 interest	 charities.
Land and buildings
Details	 of	 the	 carrying	 amount	 and	 market	 values	 of	 the	 Group’s	 investment	 properties	 are	 as	 disclosed	 in	 note	 16	 	 of	 the	 Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements.
Auditors and disclosure of information
Each	 Director	 states	 that:
		 So	 far	 as	 he	 is	 aware,	 there	 is	 no	 relevant	 audit	 information	 (that	 is,	 information	 needed	 by	 the	 Company’s	 auditors	 in	 connection	 with	 preparing	 their	 report)	 of	 which	 the	 Company’s	 auditors	 are	 unaware;	 and
		 He	 has	 taken	 all	 the	 steps	 that	 he	 ought	 to	 have	 taken	 as	 	 a	 Director	 in	 order	 to	 make	 himself	 aware	 of	 any	 relevant	 audit	 information	 and	 to	 establish	 that	 the	 Company’s	 auditors	 are	 aware	 of	 that	 information.
The	 auditors,	 PricewaterhouseCoopers	 LLP,	 have	 indicated	 their	 willingness	 to	 continue	 in	 office	 and	 a	 resolution	 to	 	 re-appoint	 them	 will	 be	 proposed	 at	 the	 AGM.
Annual General Meeting
The	 Company’s	 AGM	 will	 be	 held	 at	 12	 noon	 on	 	 Wednesday,	 7	 May	 2008	 at	 the	 offices	 of	 Dresdner	 Kleinwort	 at	 30	 Gresham	 Street,	 London,	 EC2P	 2XY.	 A	 circular	 containing	 the	 notice	 convening	 this	 meeting,	 together	 with	 an	 explanation	 of	 the	 business	 to	 be	 conducted,	 is	 enclosed	 with	 this	 Annual	 Report.
By	 order	 of	 the	 Board
W G Tucker
Company	 Secretary
14	 March	 2008
Directors’	 report	 continued 31	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
This	 part	 of	 the	 Annual	 Report,	 together	 with	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 set	 out	 on	 pages	 35	 to	 41,	 describes	 	 how	 the	 Company	 has	 both	 applied	 the	 principles	 contained	 	 in	 the	 revised	 Combined	 Code	 on	 Corporate	 Governance	 published	 in	 June	 2006	 (the	 Code)	 and	 complied	 with	 the	 provisions	 contained	 in	 section	 1	 of	 the	 Code.
Board composition
The	 Board	 comprises	 a	 Non-executive	 Chairman	 (Gordon	 Page),	 a	 Chief	 Executive	 (Allan	 Cook),	 two	 other	 Executive	 Directors	 and	 five	 other	 Non-executive	 Directors	 of	 whom	 Marcus	 Beresford	 is	 the	 Senior	 Independent	 Director.	 All	 Non-
executive	 Directors,	 with	 the	 exception	 of	 the	 Chairman,	 are	 considered	 to	 be	 independent.	 Subject	 to	 re-appointment	 	 as	 a	 Director	 by	 shareholders,	 David	 Turner,	 who	 is	 currently	 Deputy	 Chairman,	 is	 expected	 to	 assume	 the	 chairmanship	 	 of	 the	 Company	 at	 the	 close	 of	 the	 2008	 AGM.
Biographies	 of	 the	 Directors,	 giving	 details	 of	 their	 experience	 and	 other	 significant	 commitments,	 are	 set	 out	 on	 page	 27	 and,	 in	 relation	 to	 those	 Directors	 offering	 themselves	 for	 re-
appointment	 at	 the	 AGM,	 in	 the	 accompanying	 shareholder	 circular.	 The	 wide	 ranging	 experience	 and	 backgrounds	 	 of	 the	 Non-executive	 Directors	 enable	 them	 to	 debate	 and	 constructively	 challenge	 management	 in	 relation	 to	 both	 the	 development	 of	 strategy	 and	 the	 performance	 of	 the	 Group.	 The	 attendance	 of	 Directors	 at	 Board	 and	 principal	 Board	 committee	 meetings	 during	 the	 year	 is	 set	 out	 in	 the	 following	 table.	 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Number	 held 11 3 5 6
Number	 attended
G	 F	 Page	 11 – – 6
A	 E	 Cook 11 – – 6
A	 J	 Hannam
3
10 – – –
W	 G	 Tucker 11 – – –
A	 J	 Stevens	 10 – – –
J	 W	 Edington
1
	 5 1 2 2
P	 Hooley	 10 3 5 6
M	 Beresford	 10 3 5 6
J	 Patterson	 10 2 5 5
M	 H	 Ronald 10 – 4 6
D	 J	 Turner
2
1 1 1 1
	 1.	 Jeff	 Edington	 retired	 in	 June.
2.	 David	 Turner	 joined	 the	 Board	 in	 December.
3.	 Alex	 Hannam	 retired	 in	 December.
Non-executive	 Directors	 are	 appointed	 for	 specified	 terms	 of	 three	 years	 which	 can	 be	 extended	 by	 agreement	 provided	 that	 the	 individual’s	 performance	 continues	 to	 be	 effective.	 	 All	 Non-executives	 have	 confirmed	 they	 will	 have	 sufficient	 time	 to	 meet	 what	 is	 expected	 of	 them	 and	 copies	 of	 their	 appointment	 letters	 are	 available	 on	 request	 to	 the	 Company	 Secretary.	 Under	 the	 Company’s	 Articles	 of	 Association,	 Directors	 are	 subject	 to	 re-appointment	 by	 shareholders	 at	 the	 first	 AGM	 after	 their	 appointment	 by	 the	 Board;	 if	 they	 have	 held	 office	 for	 three	 years	 or	 more	 since	 their	 previous	 appointment	 by	 shareholders;	 and,	 in	 the	 case	 of	 Non-
executive	 Directors,	 if	 they	 have	 held	 office	 for	 nine	 years	 	 or	 more	 since	 first	 being	 appointed	 by	 shareholders.	 The	 Chairman	 is,	 among	 other	 things,	 responsible	 for	 chairing	 Board	 meetings	 and	 leading	 the	 Board.	 The	 Chief	 Executive’s	 responsibilities	 include	 operational	 performance,	 Corporate	 Social	 Responsibility	 and	 the	 development	 and	 implementation	 of	 the	 Company’s	 strategy.	 He	 focuses	 also	 on	 long-term	 growth	 development	 of	 the	 Group,	 its	 people	 and	 customer	 relationships.	 The	 Board’s	 policy	 is	 that	 the	 roles	 of	 Chairman	 and	 Chief	 Executive	 should	 be	 performed	 by	 different	 people.	 The	 division	 of	 responsibilities	 between	 the	 Chairman’s	 role	 and	 that	 of	 the	 Chief	 Executive	 is	 documented	 and	 clearly	 understood	 and	 no	 conflicts	 arise,	 in	 the	 Directors’	 view,	 from	 the	 fact	 that	 the	 Chairman	 held,	 until	 2001,	 the	 position	 of	 Chief	 Executive.	 With	 effect	 from	 1	 January	 2008,	 Andy	 Stevens,	 the	 Chief	 Operating	 Officer,	 assumed	 responsibility	 and	 accountability	 	 for	 the	 operational	 management,	 performance	 and	 P&L	 of	 all	 Cobham	 divisions.	 Previously,	 and	 since	 1	 March	 2007,	 he	 	 had	 been	 responsible	 and	 accountable	 for	 the	 operational	 management	 and	 performance	 of	 the	 technology	 divisions.
The	 Senior	 Independent	 Director’s	 responsibilities	 include	 the	 provision	 of	 an	 additional	 channel	 of	 communication	 between	 the	 Chairman	 and	 the	 Non-executive	 Directors.	 He	 also	 provides	 another	 point	 of	 contact	 for	 shareholders	 if	 they	 have	 concerns	 which	 communication	 through	 the	 normal	 channels	 of	 Chairman,	 Chief	 Executive	 or	 Chief	 Financial	 Officer	 has	 failed	 to	 resolve,	 or	 where	 these	 contacts	 are	 inappropriate.
The	 Directors	 have	 the	 benefit	 of	 a	 Directors’	 and	 officers’	 liability	 insurance	 policy	 and	 the	 Company	 has	 entered	 into	 qualifying	 third	 party	 indemnity	 arrangements	 with	 them,	 	 as	 permitted	 by	 the	 Companies	 Act	 1985.	 They	 can	 take	 independent	 legal	 advice	 at	 the	 Company’s	 expense	 within	 set	 limits	 in	 furtherance	 of	 their	 duties.
The Board and its proceedings
Board	 meetings	 scheduled	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 annual	 timetable	 take	 place	 eight	 times	 a	 year	 and	 otherwise	 as	 required.	 There	 is	 contact	 between	 meetings	 to	 progress	 the	 Group’s	 business	 as	 required.	 Meetings	 were	 held	 at	 the	 head	 office	 in	 Wimborne,	 at	 the	 Company’s	 London	 office	 and	 at	 operational	 locations	 in	 the	 UK	 and	 USA.	 In	 addition,	 meetings	 take	 place	 between	 the	 Non-executives	 in	 the	 absence	 of	 the	 Chairman	 and/or	 the	 Executive	 Directors.
The	 Board’s	 role	 is	 to	 lead	 the	 Group	 with	 a	 view	 to	 the	 creation	 of	 a	 strong,	 sustainable	 financial	 performance	 and	 long-term	 shareholder	 value.	 In	 doing	 so,	 it	 reviews	 and	 agrees	 Group	 strategy,	 ensures	 that	 the	 necessary	 resources	 are	 in	 place,	 monitors	 management	 performance,	 and	 supervises	 the	 conduct	 of	 the	 Group’s	 activities	 within	 	 a	 framework	 of	 prudent	 and	 effective	 internal	 controls.	 	 During	 the	 year	 Board	 members	 participated	 in	 the	 now	 customary	 meeting	 held	 over	 two	 days	 devoted	 to	 the	 consideration	 and	 development	 of	 the	 Group’s	 strategy.	 Corporate	 governance 32	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
The	 Board	 has	 adopted	 a	 schedule	 of	 matters	 reserved	 for	 its	 specific	 approval.	 The	 schedule	 provides	 the	 framework	 for	 those	 decisions	 which	 can	 be	 made	 by	 the	 Board	 and	 those	 which	 can	 be	 delegated	 either	 to	 committees	 or	 otherwise.	 Among	 the	 key	 matters	 on	 which	 the	 Board	 alone	 may	 make	 decisions	 are	 the	 Group’s	 business	 strategy,	 its	 five-year	 plan,	 its	 consolidated	 budget,	 Group	 policies,	 dividends,	 acquisitions	 and	 disposals,	 and	 all	 appointments	 to	 and	 removals	 from	 the	 Board.	 Authority	 is	 delegated	 to	 management	 on	 a	 structured	 basis	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 provisions	 of	 the	 Corporate	 Framework	 ensuring	 that	 proper	 management	 oversight	 exists	 at	 the	 appropriate	 level.	 Matters	 delegated	 in	 this	 way	 include,	 within	 defined	 parameters,	 the	 approval	 of	 bids	 and	 contracts,	 capital	 expenditures	 and	 financing	 arrangements.
The	 Board	 has	 adopted	 procedures	 relating	 to	 the	 conduct	 of	 its	 business,	 including	 the	 timely	 provision	 of	 information,	 and	 the	 Company	 Secretary	 is	 responsible	 for	 ensuring	 that	 these	 are	 observed	 and	 for	 advising	 the	 Board	 on	 corporate	 governance	 matters.	 The	 Company	 Secretary	 is	 appointed,	 and	 can	 only	 be	 removed,	 by	 the	 Board.
Board committees
The	 Board	 is	 supported	 in	 its	 work	 by	 a	 number	 of	 committees.	 Information	 relating	 to	 the	 nomination	 and	 audit	 committees	 appears	below	and	the	activities	 of	the	remuneration	 committee	 are	 described	 in	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 on	 pages	 35	 to	 41.	 The	 Company	 Secretary	 acts	 as	 secretary	 to	 all	 Board	 committees.	 Committee	 chairmen	 provide	 oral	 reports	 on	 the	 work	 undertaken	 by	 their	 committees	 at	 the	 following	 Board	 meeting	 and	 minutes	 are	 made	 available	 to	 all	 Directors.	 Other	 Board	 committees	 include	 the	 executive	 committee,	 the	 general	 purposes	 committee	 and	 the	 price	 sensitive	 information	 (‘PSI’)	 committee.	 The	 Executive	 Directors	 are	 members	 of	 these	 committees.	 The	 terms	 of	 reference	 of	 the	 executive	 committee	 were	 reviewed	 during	 the	 year	 and	 its	 purpose	 is	 to	 assist	 the	 Chief	 Executive	 in	 the	 performance	 of	 his	 duties.	 These	 include	 developing	 the	 Group’s	 strategy	 for	 Board	 consideration	 and	 approval,	 making	 recommendations	 as	 to	 acquisitions	 and	 disposals,	 reviewing	 operational	 activities	 and	 managing	 the	 significant	 risks	 faced	 by	 the	 Group.	 This	 committee	 met	 on	 ten	 occasions	 during	 the	 year	 and	 its	 membership	 comprises	 the	 Executive	 Directors	 under	 the	 chairmanship	 of	 the	 Chief	 Executive.	 Alex	 Hannam	 was	 a	 member	 of	 the	 committee	 until	 his	 retirement	 on	 31	 December	 2007.
The	 duties	 of	 the	 general	 purposes	 committee	 are	 varied	 	 and	 include	 the	 discharge	 of	 obligations	 arising	 under	 the	 Company’s	 share	 plans,	 the	 determination	 of	 the	 remuneration	 of	 the	 Non-executive	 Directors,	 and	 the	 	 approval	 of	 banking	 facilities.	 The	 PSI	 committee’s	 main	 function	 is	 to	 establish	 and	 implement	 internal	 policies,	 systems	 and	 controls	 to	 ensure	 that	 potential	 inside	 information	 is	 communicated	 to	 it,	 considered,	 verified	 and	 released	 to	 the	 market	 where	 required.	 The	 general	 purposes	 and	 PSI	 committees	 meet	 	 as	 and	 when	 required.
Nomination committee report
Gordon	 Page	 is	 the	 Chairman	 of	 this	 committee.	 The	 other	 members	 are	 Allan	 Cook,	 Peter	 Hooley,	 Marcus	 Beresford,	 John	 Patterson,	 Mark	 Ronald	 (appointed	 8	 January	 2007)	 and	 David	 Turner	 (appointed	 4	 December	 2007).	 Jeff	 Edington	 was	 a	 member	 of	 the	 committee	 until	 his	 retirement	 on	 6	 June	 2007.	 The	 majority	 of	 the	 members	 of	 the	 committee	 are	 independent.	 Details	 of	 their	 qualifications	 and	 experience	 are	 set	 out	 on	 page	 27.	 During	 the	 year	 the	 committee	 met	 formally	 on	 six	 occasions.
The	 committee’s	 terms	 of	 reference,	 which	 have	 recently	 been	 reviewed,	 are	 available	 on	 the	 Company’s	 website	 or	 on	 application	 to	 the	 Company	 Secretary.	 The	 committee’s	 main	 duties	 are	 to	 review	 the	 structure,	 size	 and	 composition	 of	 the	 Board	 and	 to	 consider	 succession	 planning	 for	 Directors	 and	 other	 senior	 executives.	 The	 committee	 dealt	 with	 these	 matters	 during	 the	 year	 and,	 in	 addition,	 reviewed	 the	 Group’s	 talent	 management	 processes,	 made	 recommendations	 regarding	 the	 re-appointment	 of	 certain	 Directors	 at	 the	 2007	 AGM,	 and	 was	 engaged	 in	 searching,	 with	 the	 assistance	 of	 external	 recruitment	 consultants,	 for	 new	 Non-executive	 Directors.
Mark	 Ronald	 was	 appointed	 a	 Non-executive	 Director	 with	 effect	 from	 8	 January	 2007.	 Mark	 was	 initially	 identified	 as	 a	 potential	 appointee	 to	 the	 Board	 by	 a	 committee	 member	 and	 was	 recommended	 for	 appointment	 following	 meetings	 with	 external	 recruitment	 consultants,	 who	 reported	 back	 to	 the	 committee	 on	 his	 suitability,	 members	 of	 the	 committee	 and,	 subsequently,	 other	 Board	 members.	 David	 Turner	 was	 appointed	 Deputy	 Chairman	 with	 effect	 from	 1	 December	 2007.	 The	 selection	 process,	 which	 was	 	 led	 by	 Marcus	 Beresford,	 involved	 the	 development	 of	 a	 specification	 with	 the	 assistance	 of	 executive	 search	 consultants,	 interviews	 and	 meetings	 with	 board	 members.
The	 Group	 Director	 of	 Human	 Resources	 customarily	 attends	 committee	 meetings	 by	 invitation	 and	 provides	 advice	 and	 support	 as	 required.
Directors’ professional development
On	 appointment,	 Directors	 undertake	 a	 structured	 induction	 programme	 in	 the	 course	 of	 which	 they	 receive	 information	 about	 the	 operations	 and	 activities	 of	 the	 Group,	 the	 role	 of	 the	 Board	 and	 the	 matters	 reserved	 for	 its	 decision,	 the	 Company’s	 corporate	 governance	 practices	 and	 procedures	 and	 their	 duties,	 responsibilities	 and	 obligations	 as	 Directors	 of	 a	 listed	 public	 limited	 company.	 This	 is	 supplemented	 by	 visits	 to	 key	 locations	 and	 meetings	 with,	 and	 presentations	 by,	 senior	 executives.
Training	 for	 Directors	 is	 available	 as	 required	 and	 is	 provided	 mainly	 by	 means	 of	 external	 courses	 or	 in-house	 presentations.	 During	 the	 year	 a	 presentation	 was	 given	 to	 the	 Board	 as	 a	 whole	 on	 Directors’	 duties	 and	 the	 Companies	 Act	 2006	 and	 individual	 Directors	 received	 training	 in	 a	 number	 of	 areas	 including	 dealing	 with	 concerns	 raised	 under	 the	 Group’s	 whistleblowing	 policy.	 In	 addition,	 Directors’	 knowledge	 of	 	 the	 legal	 and	 regulatory	 environment	 is	 updated	 through	 the	 provision	 of	 information	 by	 the	 Group’s	 advisers	 and	 by	 means	 of	 regular	 briefings	 from	 the	 Company	 Secretary.
Corporate	 governance	 continued 33	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Performance evaluation
During	 the	 year,	 the	 Board	 undertook	 an	 evaluation	 of	 its	 own	 performance	 and	 that	 of	 individual	 Directors	 and	 of	 the	 audit,	 remuneration	 and	 nomination	 committees.	 The	 evaluation	 process	 involved	 the	 dissemination	 to	 and	 completion	 by	 Board	 members	 of	 structured	 questionnaires	 dealing	 with	 the	 performance	 of	 the	 Board	 as	 a	 whole,	 of	 the	 audit,	 nomination	 and	 remuneration	 committees	 and	 of	 their	 	 own	 performance	 as	 Directors.	 All	 responses	 were	 considered	 	 by	 the	 Chairman	 and	 then	 discussed	 at	 a	 full	 meeting	 of	 the	 Board.	 Generally,	 the	 Board	 was	 pleased	 with	 progress	 which	 had	 been	 made	 in	 relation	 to	 its	 performance	 and	 that	 of	 the	 committees	 and	 with	 the	 contribution	 of	 individual	 Directors.	 However,	 as	 always,	 areas	 for	 improvement	 were	 identified	 and	 any	 shortcomings	 will	 be	 addressed.	 The	 principal	 Board	 committees	 have	 considered	 their	 own	 performance.	 The	 performance	 of	 individual	 Directors	 was	 considered	 by	 the	 Chairman	 and	 the	 Chief	 Executive	 and	 the	 Senior	 Independent	 Director	 discussed	 the	 Chairman’s	 own	 performance	 with	 him.
Financial reporting
In	 the	 Directors’	 view,	 the	 Annual	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 for	 2007,	 together	 with	 the	 Interim	 and	 other	 reports	 made	 during	 the	 year,	 present	 a	 balanced	 and	 understandable	 assessment	 of	 the	 Company’s	 position	 and	 prospects.	 The	 Directors	 have	 adopted	 the	 going	 concern	 basis	 in	 preparing	 the	 Annual	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 as	 stated	 in	 the	 Financial	 review	 on	 pages	 18	 to	 22.
Internal control and risk management
The	 Group	 operates	 under	 a	 system	 of	 internal	 controls	 which	 has	 been	 developed	 and	 refined	 over	 time	 to	 meet	 its	 needs	 and	 the	 risks	 and	 opportunities	 to	 which	 it	 is	 exposed.	 They	 include	 a	 strategic	 planning	 process	 involving	 the	 preparation	 of	 a	 five-year	 plan,	 a	 comprehensive	 budgeting	 system	 with	 an	 annual	 budget	 which	 is	 approved	 by	 the	 Board,	 the	 regular	 revision	 of	 forecasts	 for	 the	 year,	 the	 monitoring	 of	 financial	 performance	 and	 the	 appropriate	 delegation	 of	 authorities	 to	 operational	 management.	 Delegations	 and	 other	 operational	 controls	 are	 contained	 in	 the	 Corporate	 Framework	 and	 the	 Group	 Finance	 Manual.
Risk	 management	 is	 an	 integral	 part	 of	 the	 system	 of	 internal	 control.	 Divisional	 Managing	 Directors	 and	 Presidents	 are	 required	 to	 ensure	 that	 appropriate	 processes,	 including	 	 the	 maintenance	 of	 divisional	 risk	 registers,	 exist	 to	 identify	 and	 manage	 risks	 and	 to	 regularly	 carry	 out	 formal	 risk	 assessments.	 The	 executive	 committee	 undertakes	 a	 	 top-level	 review	 of	 significant	 risks	 and	 reports	 regularly	 	 to	 the	 Board	 on	 their	 mitigation.	 The	 Board	 is	 responsible	 for	 the	 Group’s	 system	 of	 internal	 control,	 the	 aim	 of	 which	 is	 to	 manage	 risks	 that	 are	 significant	 to	 the	 fulfilment	 of	 the	 Group’s	 business	 objectives	 and	 to	 contribute	 to	 the	 safeguarding	 of	 shareholders’	 investment	 and	 the	 Company’s	 assets.	 It	 is	 also	 responsible	 for	 reviewing	 the	 effectiveness	 of	 the	 system.	 However,	 such	 a	 system	 	 is	 designed	 to	 manage	 rather	 than	 eliminate	 the	 risk	 of	 failure	 	 to	 achieve	 business	 objectives,	 and	 can	 only	 provide	 reasonable	 and	 not	 absolute	 assurance	 against	 material	 misstatement	 or	 loss.
The	 Board	 confirms	 that	 there	 is	 an	 ongoing	 process	 for	 identifying,	 evaluating	 and	 managing	 the	 significant	 risks	 faced	 by	 the	 Group.	 This	 process,	 which	 has	 been	 in	 place	 	 for	 the	 year	 under	 review	 and	 up	 to	 the	 date	 of	 approval	 of	 	 the	 Annual	 Report	 and	 financial	 statements,	 is	 reviewed	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 guidance	 for	 Directors	 on	 internal	 control	 issued	 by	 the	 Turnbull	 Committee.	 The	 audit	 committee	 monitors	 the	 adequacy	 of	 internal	 financial	 controls	 and	 compliance	 with	 Group	 standards	 through	 a	 self-assessment	 process	 involving	 all	 subsidiaries	 supplemented	 by	 regular	 financial	 assurance	 reviews	 and	 visits.
The	 Board	 receives	 reports	 on	 a	 regular	 basis	 from	 the	 executive	 and	 audit	 committees	 in	 relation	 to	 the	 effectiveness	 of	 the	 Group’s	 system	 of	 internal	 control	 and	 has,	 accordingly,	 reviewed	 the	 effectiveness	 of	 the	 Group’s	 system	 of	 internal	 control	 in	 respect	 of	 2007.
Audit committee report
The	 Chairman	 of	 the	 committee	 is	 Peter	 Hooley.	 He	 is	 an	 independent	 Director	 and	 the	 Board	 is	 satisfied,	 since	 he	 was	 a	 Finance	 Director	 of	 a	 FTSE	 100	 company	 until	 mid-2006	 and	 is	 a	 chartered	 accountant,	 that	 he	 has	 ‘relevant	 and	 recent	 financial	 experience’	 as	 required	 by	 the	 Code.
The	 other	 members	 of	 the	 committee,	 all	 of	 whom	 	 are	 independent	 Directors,	 are	 Marcus	 Beresford,	 John	 Patterson	 and	 David	 Turner	 (appointed	 4	 December	 2007).	 Jeff	 Edington	 was	 a	 member	 of	 the	 committee	 until	 his	 retirement	 on	 6	 June	 2007.	 Details	 of	 their	 qualifications	 	 and	 experience	 are	 set	 out	 on	 page	 27.	 During	 the	 year	 	 the	 committee	 met	 on	 three	 occasions.	 The	 committee’s	 terms	 of	 reference,	 which	 were	 reviewed	 during	 the	 year,	 are	 available	 on	 the	 Company’s	 website	 or	 on	 application	 to	 the	 Company	 Secretary.	 The	 committee’s	 main	 duties	 are	 to	 monitor	 the	 integrity	 of	 the	 Company’s	 financial	 statements	 and	 any	 formal	 announcements	 relating	 to	 its	 financial	 performance,	 to	 consider	 the	 effectiveness	 of	 the	 Group’s	 internal	 financial	 control	 systems,	 to	 monitor	 and	 review	the	effectiveness	of	the	Group’s	internal	audit	 	 activities,	 to	 make	 recommendations	 as	 to	 the	 appointment,	 remuneration	 and	 terms	 of	 engagement	 of	 the	 external	 auditors	 and	 to	 monitor	 and	 review	 the	 external	 auditors’	 independence	 and	 objectivity	 and	 the	 effectiveness	 of	 the	 audit	 process.
Meetings	 of	 the	 committee	 are	 normally	 attended	 by	 the	 Company	 Chairman,	 the	 Chief	 Financial	 Officer,	 senior	 employees	 with	 responsibilities	 in	 relation	 to	 finance	 and	 internal	 control,	 and	 the	 external	 auditors.	 In	 addition,	 the	 committee	 holds	 sessions	 with	 the	 external	 auditors	 and	 	 the	 Head	 of	 Financial	 Assurance	 in	 the	 absence	 of	 executive	 management.	 Attendance	 of	 non-members	 is	 at	 the	 discretion,	 and	 by	 invitation,	 of	 the	 committee. 34	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
At	 the	 majority	 of	 its	 meetings	 the	 committee	 considered	 reports	 from	 the	 external	 auditors,	 the	 financial	 assurance	 function	 and	 on	 risk	 management	 and	 controls.	 Reports	 	 were	 also	 considered	 on	 a	 number	 of	 matters	 including	 the	 pension	 scheme	 deficit	 and	 funding	 plans,	 taxation,	 revenue	 recognition,	 provisions,	 disaster	 recovery	 planning	 and	 corporate	 governance	 issues.	 The	 Group	 has	 formal	 anti-fraud	 and	 whistleblowing	 policies	 and	 the	 committee	 regularly	 receives	 and	 considers	 reports	 on	 these	 matters.	 The	 committee	 believes	 that	 the	 current	 arrangements	 comprising	 a	 rotational	 programme	 of	 internal	 financial	 	 control	 review	 visits	 to	 subsidiaries	 by	 the	 financial	 assurance	 function,	 business	 reviews	 carried	 out	 by	 the	 Chief	 Executive,	 Chief	 Operating	 Officer	 and	 Chief	 Financial	 Officer	 and	 a	 process	 of	 self-assessment	 of	 internal	 financial	 controls	 by	 all	 subsidiaries	 provides	 appropriate	 internal	 audit	 coverage	 	 of	 the	 Group’s	 activities.	 The	 financial	 assurance	 function	 regularly	 reports	 to	 the	 audit	 committee.	 Where	 weaknesses	 have	 been	 identified,	 plans	 for	 remedying	 them	 are	 developed	 and	 progress	 monitored.
The	 committee	 and	 the	 external	 auditors	 have	 safeguards	 	 to	 avoid	 the	 possible	 compromise	 of	 the	 auditors’	 objectivity	 and	 independence.	 These	 include	 the	 adoption	 by	 the	 committee	 of	 a	 policy	 regarding	 the	 supply	 of	 audit	 and	 non-
audit	 services	 and	 of	 a	 policy	 on	 the	 employment	 of	 external	 audit	 staff.	 Non-audit	 services	 involving	 the	 review	 of	 interim	 financial	 information,	 tax	 services	 and	 accounting	 advice,	 	 and	 acquisition-related	 due	 diligence	 can	 be	 supplied	 subject	 to	 pre-approval	 by	 the	 committee	 where	 the	 cost	 of	 any	 individual	 engagement	 exceeds	 a	 pre-defined	 limit.	 The	 committee	 has	 also	 received	 reports	 from	 the	 external	 auditors	 confirming	 their	 independence	 and	 objectivity.
Fees	 paid	 to	 the	 external	 auditors	 during	 the	 year	 ended	 	 31	 December	 2007	 are	 set	 out	 in	 note	 2	 of	 the	 Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements.
Shareholder relations
During	 the	 year	 the	 Chief	 Executive	 and	 Chief	 Financial	 	 Officer	 held	 regular	 meetings	 with	 fund	 managers	 and	 other	 investors	 to	 discuss	 information	 made	 public	 by	 the	 Group.	 In	 March	 and	 October	 2007	 respectively	 a	 briefing	 and	 site	 visit	 tour	 also	 took	 place	 at	 Chelton	 Limited	 in	 Marlow,	 UK	 	 and	 at	 REMEC	 Defense	 &	 Space	 Inc.	 in	 San	 Diego,	 USA,	 	 two	 of	 the	 Group’s	 businesses.
Presentations	 were	 given	 on	 the	 announcement	 of	 the	 preliminary	 and	 interim	 results.	 Copies	 of	 the	 presentation	 materials	 can	 be	 accessed	 via	 the	 Company’s	 website	 at	 www.cobham.com.
The	 Chairman	 also	 wrote	 to	 a	 number	 of	 major	 shareholders	 reminding	 them	 of	 his	 availability,	 and	 that	 of	 Marcus	 Beresford,	 the	 Senior	 Independent	 Director,	 should	 there	 	 be	 issues	 which	 they	 might	 wish	 to	 raise.	 In	 the	 absence	 	 of	 any	 request	 from	 shareholders	 no	 meetings	 involving	 	 the	 Chairman	 and	 the	 Senior	 Independent	 Director	 have	 in	 	 fact	 taken	 place.	 Shareholders	 have	 also	 been	 offered	 the	 opportunity	 to	 meet	 David	 Turner,	 the	 recently-appointed	 Deputy	 Chairman.
The	 Board	 is	 kept	 informed	 of	 investors’	 views	 through	 the	 distribution	 of	 analysts’	 circulars,	 the	 receipt	 of	 regular	 reports	 from	 the	 Company’s	 brokers	 and	 updates	 from	 the	 Chief	 Executive	 and	 Chief	 Financial	 Officer.	 Correspondence	 with	 shareholders	 is	 also	 made	 available.
Communication	 with	 shareholders	 takes	 place	 via	 RNS	 announcements,	 the	 Company’s	 website,	 the	 annual	 and	 interim	 reports	 and	 the	 AGM.	 The	 AGM	 is	 attended	 by	 all	 Directors	 and	 shareholders	 have	 the	 opportunity	 to	 hear	 a	 statement	 as	 to	 progress	 made	 during	 the	 year,	 to	 question	 the	 Board	 on	 its	 stewardship	 of	 the	 Company	 and	 to	 meet	 Directors	 informally.	 The	 results	 of	 the	 votes	 on	 the	 resolutions	 proposed	 at	 the	 AGM	 are	 published	 on	 the	 Company’s	 website.
Responsibility statements
Statements	 relating	 to	 the	 responsibilities	 of	 the	 Directors	 	 are	 on	 page	 42	 and	 those	 relating	 to	 the	 auditors	 are	 on	 	 pages	 43	 and	 91.
Compliance statement
The	 Board	 confirms	 that	 it	 complied	 throughout	 2007	 with	 	 all	 relevant	 provisions	 contained	 in	 section	 1	 of	 the	 Code.
Corporate	 governance	 continued 35	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
This	 report	 provides	 the	 information	 required	 by	 the	 Directors’	 Remuneration	 Report	 Regulations	 2002	 (the	 ‘Regulations’).	 	 It	 also	 describes	 how	 the	 Company	 applies	 the	 principles	 of	 the	 Code	 in	 relation	 to	 remuneration.	 The	 report	 has	 been	 approved	 by	 the	 Board	 and	 shareholder	 approval	 will	 be	 sought	 at	 the	 forthcoming	 AGM.
The remuneration committee
The	 committee’s	 main	 duties	 are	 to	 make	 recommendations	 to	 the	 Board	 on	 the	 Group’s	 policies	 on	 Executive	 Directors’	 remuneration	 and	 to	 determine,	 on	 the	 Board’s	 behalf,	 the	 specific	 remuneration	 packages	 of	 the	 Chairman,	 Executive	 Directors	 and	 certain	 key	 senior	 executives,	 including	 the	 Divisional	 Executive	 and	 members	 of	 the	 Extended	 Executive	 Group.	 The	 committee’s	 terms	 of	 reference	 are	 available	 	 on	 the	 Company’s	 website	 or	 on	 application	 to	 the	 	 Company	 Secretary.	 The	 committee	 consists	 exclusively	 of	 independent	 Non-
executive	 Directors	 and	 its	 members	 are	 John	 Patterson	 (Chairman),	 Peter	 Hooley,	 Marcus	 Beresford,	 Mark	 Ronald	 (from	 8	 January	 2007)	 and	 David	 Turner	 (from	 4	 December	 2007).	 Jeff	 Edington	 was	 a	 member	 of	 the	 committee	 until	 6	 June	 2007	 when	 he	 retired	 from	 the	 Board.	 The	 committee	 met	 on	 five	 occasions	 during	 2007.	 The	 Chief	 Executive,	 Chairman	 of	 the	 Company	 and	 Group	 Director	 of	 Human	 Resources	 are	 invited	 to	 attend	 meetings	 of	 the	 committee,	 other	 than	 when	 their	 own	 remuneration	 is	 being	 discussed.
The	 committee	 received	 advice	 during	 the	 year	 from	 Kepler	 Associates	 (appointed	 by	 the	 committee	 in	 April	 2006)	 on	 remuneration	 strategy,	 incentive	 design	 and	 market	 data.	 Additional	 advice	 was	 received	 from	 the	 Group	 Director	 of	 Human	 Resources	 and	 Company	 Secretary.	 Inbucon	 provided	 total	 shareholder	 return	 monitoring	 advice	 to	 the	 committee	 during	 2007.	 Kepler	 Associates	 and	 Inbucon	 provide	 no	 other	 services	 to	 the	 Group	 nor	 have	 any	 connection	 with	 the	 Group.
Remuneration policy
The	 Board’s	 policy	 is	 to	 recruit,	 motivate	 and	 retain	 Executive	 Directors	 of	 high	 calibre	 by	 rewarding	 them	 for	 good	 performance	 with	 competitive	 remuneration	 packages.	 	 In	 particular,	 the	 executive	 pay	 policy	 for	 the	 current	 and	 subsequent	 financial	 years	 is	 designed	 to	 retain	 those	 executives	 with	 the	 skills	 and	 experience	 necessary	 to	 enable	 the	 Group	 to	 achieve	 its	 objectives	 and	 satisfy	 shareholder	 expectations.	 The	 current	 remuneration	 strategy	 is	 to	 position	 base	 salaries	 around	 the	 median	 of	 the	 market	 to	 ensure	 the	 continued	 retention	 of	 key	 executives	 and	 to	 provide	 an	 opportunity	 	 to	 enhance	 this	 through	 both	 short-term	 and	 long-term	 incentives.	 The	 main	 elements	 of	 the	 remuneration	 package	 focus	 on	 supporting	 different	 objectives,	 as	 illustrated	 in	 the	 following	 table:
Element Purpose Based	 on:
Salary Provide	 competitive	 base	 pay
Employment	 marketplace	 and	 individual	 responsibilities	 Annual	 bonus
Motivate	 achievement	 of	 key	 annual	 objectives
Earnings	 per	 share	 (‘EPS’)	 growth,	 cash	 flow,	 personal	 objectives
Long-term	 incentives
Incentivise	 profitable	 growth	 and	 sector	 outperformance
Relative	 total	 shareholder	 return	 (‘TSR’),	 EPS	 growth,	 economic	 profit
Reward	 relative	 share	 price	 and	 dividend	 growth
Provide	 alignment	 with	 shareholders’	 interests
Support	 retention
Promote	 executive	 share	 ownership
Pension Provide	 competitive	 post-
retirement	 compensation	 and	 benefits
Employment	 market	 place
In	 defining	 Cobham’s	 remuneration	 policy,	 the	 committee	 takes	 into	 account	 best	 practice	 guidelines	 set	 by	 institutional	 investor	 bodies	 such	 as	 the	 Association	 of	 British	 Insurers.	 The	 Company’s	 short	 and	 long-term	 incentives	 are	 awarded	 only	 if	 stretching	 performance	 targets	 are	 achieved	 and	 the	 committee	 is	 satisfied	 that	 the	 executive	 has	 acted	 in	 a	 responsible	 and	 diligent	 manner.	 The	 Chairman	 of	 the	 Company	 ensures	 that	 the	 Company,	 through	 the	 committee	 and	 its	 Chairman,	 maintains	 contact	 with	 principal	 shareholders	 about	 remuneration	 matters.
Around	 half	 of	 each	 Executive	 Director’s	 remuneration	 is	 variable	 and	 is	 linked	 to	 performance.	 The	 following	 chart	 illustrates	 the	 proportions	 of	 the	 remuneration	 package	 comprising	 fixed	 (i.e.	 salary	 and	 pension)	 and	 variable	 elements	 of	 pay,	 assuming	 target	 annual	 bonus	 and	 expected	 values	 of	 long-term	 incentives	 are	 achieved.
Executive Director pay mix, 2007
1  Base salary
2  Annual bonus
3  Performance Share Plan (PSP)
4  Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS)
5  Pension
1
2
3
4
5
1  Base salary
2  Annual bonus
3  Performance Share Plan (PSP)
4  Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS)
5  Pension
1
2
3
4
5
Directors’	 remuneration	 report 36	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Dilution
The	 Company’s	 share	 schemes	 are	 funded	 through	 a	 combination	 of	 shares	 purchased	 in	 the	 market	 and	 new-issue	 shares,	 as	 appropriate.	 Funding	 of	 awards	 through	 new-issue	 shares	 is	 subject	 to	 an	 overall	 dilution	 limit	 of	 10%	 of	 issued	 share	 capital	 in	 any	 ten-year	 period.	 Of	 this,	 5%	 may	 be	 	 used	 in	 connection	 with	 the	 Company’s	 discretionary	 share	 schemes	 (e.g.	 the	 Performance	 Share	 Plan	 and	 Executive	 Share	 Option	 Scheme).	 As	 of	 31	 December	 2007,	 68m	 	 (6.0%)	 and	 39.3m	 (3.5%)	 shares	 have	 been,	 or	 may	 be,	 	 issued	 pursuant	 to	 awards	 made	 in	 the	 previous	 ten	 years	 	 in	 connection	 with	 all	 share	 schemes	 and	 discretionary	 schemes	 respectively.	 Awards	 that	 are	 made	 but	 then	 	 lapse	 or	 are	 forfeited	 are	 excluded	 from	 the	 calculations.
Base salary
Executive	 Directors’	 salaries	 are	 reviewed	 annually	 with	 changes	 implemented	 from	 1	 January.	 Salaries	 are	 benchmarked	 by	 the	 committee’s	 advisers	 against	 comparable	 roles	 in	 (i)	 global	 UK-listed	 aerospace	 and	 defence	 companies	 and	 (ii)	 UK-based	 companies	 with	 a	 similar	 market	 capitalisation	 as	 the	 Company.	 When	 reviewing	 salaries	 the	 committee	 also	 assesses	 individual	 responsibilities,	 experience,	 performance	 and	 achievement	 of	 personal	 objectives.
Annual bonus
The	 Company	 operates	 an	 annual	 cash	 bonus	 scheme	 	 for	 its	 Executive	 Directors.	 Bonuses	 were	 awarded	 by	 	 the	 committee	 in	 respect	 of	 2007	 having	 regard	 to	 the	 performance	 of	 the	 Group	 and	 personal	 performance	 objectives	 for	 the	 year.	 The	 maximum	 annual	 bonus	 opportunity	 for	 Executive	 Directors	 is	 100%	 of	 base	 salary,	 	 of	 which	 85%	 is	 determined	 by	 financial	 performance.	 	 The	 on-target	 bonus	 for	 Executive	 Directors	 is	 50%	 of	 salary.	 For	 Executive	 Directors,	 financial	 performance	 is	 measured	 through	 EPS	 growth	 and	 cash	 generation.	 Personal	 objectives	 for	 the	 Chief	 Executive	 are	 set	 and	 assessed	 by	 the	 Chairman,	 and	 by	 the	 Chief	 Executive	 for	 the	 other	 Executive	 Directors.	 The	 committee	 reviews	 and	 approves	 annual	 bonus	 awards	 for	 the	 Executive	 Directors	 and	 the	 key	 senior	 executives.	 	 The	 2007	 bonus	 awards	 for	 the	 Executive	 Directors	 were	 in	 the	 range	 of	 98%	 to	 115%	 of	 base	 salary.	 The	 EPS	 growth	 and	 cash	 generation	 measures	 at	 constant	 currency	 both	 exceeded	 the	 maximum	 on	 the	 preset	 stretch	 targets	 for	 	 the	 year.
Long-term incentives
Executive	 Directors,	 senior	 managers	 and	 certain	 other	 staff	 are	 eligible	 to	 participate	 in	 the	 Company’s	 long-term	 incentive	 arrangements.	 In	 2007,	 these	 included	 the	 Performance	 	 Share	 Plan	 (‘PSP’)	 and	 the	 Executive	 Share	 Option	 Scheme	 (‘ESOS’).	 From	 2008,	 senior	 executives	 will	 also	 have	 the	 opportunity	 to	 participate	 in	 the	 Bonus	 Coinvestment	 Plan	 (‘BCP’).	 The	 performance	 measures	 against	 which	 PSP,	 ESOS	 and	 BCP	 awards	 vest	 include	 relative	 TSR,	 real	 EPS	 growth	 and	 absolute	 Economic	 Profit	 growth,	 which	 together	 help	 ensure	 the	 interests	 of	 Directors	 are	 aligned	 with	 those	 of	 shareholders	 (through	 TSR)	 whilst	 also	 reinforcing	 capital	 efficiency	 (Economic	 Profit)	 and	 bottom-line	 growth	 for	 shareholders	 (EPS).	 Performance Share Plan
Under	 the	 PSP,	 approved	 by	 shareholders	 in	 2007,	 conditional	 share	 awards	 of	 up	 to	 150%	 of	 base	 salary	 may	 be	 granted	 annually.	 During	 2007,	 awards	 were	 made	 to	 24	 senior	 executives,	 including	 the	 Executive	 Directors	 who	 were	 granted	 awards	 of	 100%	 of	 salary.	 Vesting	 of	 PSP	 awards	 is	 based	 50%	 on	 the	 Company’s	 three-year	 TSR	 relative	 to	 a	 comparator	 group	 of	 aerospace	 and	 defence	 sector	 peers	 and	 50%	 on	 the	 Company’s	 three-year	 real	 EPS	 growth.	 Companies	 in	 the	 TSR	 comparator	 group	 for	 awards	 granted	 in	 2007	 were:
BAE	 Systems IMI Qinetiq
Boeing ITT	 Industries Raytheon
EADS L-3	 Communications Rockwell	 Collins
EDO Lockheed	 Martin Rolls-Royce
Flir	 Systems Meggitt Smiths	 Group
Goodrich Northrop	 Grumman VT	 Group
TSR-based	 awards	 vest	 only	 if	 Cobham’s	 TSR	 over	 the	 three-
year	 performance	 period	 is	 at	 least	 median,	 at	 which	 point	 16.7%	 of	 the	 shares	 subject	 to	 this	 part	 of	 the	 award	 vest;	 66.7%	 vests	 if	 the	 Company’s	 TSR	 outperforms	 the	 median	 by	 10%	 per	 annum	 and	 the	 TSR-based	 award	 vests	 in	 full	 if	 the	 Company’s	 TSR	 outperforms	 the	 median	 by	 15%	 per	 annum.	 Awards	 vest	 on	 a	 straight-line	 sliding	 scale	 for	 performance	 between	 these	 levels;	 no	 awards	 vest	 if	 TSR	 performance	 is	 below	 median.	 For	 awards	 granted	 in	 2007,	 16.7%	 of	 the	 EPS-based	 awards	 vest	 at	 EPS	 growth	 of	 RPI	 +	 3%	 per	 annum;	 66.7%	 vests	 at	 EPS	 growth	 of	 RPI	 +	 10%	 per	 annum	 and	 EPS-based	 awards	 vest	 in	 full	 at	 EPS	 growth	 of	 RPI	 +	 15%	 per	 annum,	 all	 averaged	 over	 the	 three-year	 performance	 period.	 Awards	 vest	 on	 a	 straight-line	 sliding	 scale	 for	 performance	 between	 these	 levels;	 no	 awards	 vest	 if	 EPS	 growth	 is	 less	 than	 RPI	 +	 3%	 per	 annum.
To	 the	 extent	 that	 the	 performance	 targets	 are	 not	 met	 over	 the	 three-year	 performance	 period,	 awards	 will	 lapse,	 i.e.	 there	 is	 no	 re-testing	 of	 the	 performance	 conditions.	 In	 the	 event	 of	 a	 change	 of	 control,	 vesting	 of	 PSP	 awards	 is	 not	 automatic	 and	 would	 depend	 on	 the	 extent	 to	 which	 the	 performance	 conditions	 had	 been	 met	 at	 the	 time	 and	 the	 period	 elapsed	 since	 the	 date	 of	 grant.	 Executive Share Option Scheme
The	 ESOS	 was	 approved	 by	 shareholders	 at	 the	 2004	 AGM	 and	 amended	 at	 the	 2007	 AGM.	 It	 includes	 an	 ‘Approved’	 plan,	 which	 has	 been	 approved	 by	 the	 Inland	 Revenue,	 and	 an	 ‘Unapproved’	 plan	 which	 is	 not	 designed	 for	 Inland	 Revenue	 approval.	 Options	 to	 acquire	 Cobham	 plc	 Ordinary	 Shares	 	 may	 be	 offered	 to	 participants	 up	 to	 a	 maximum	 annual	 value	 of	 200%	 of	 base	 salary	 (300%	 for	 US-based	 participants).	 	 In	 2007,	 Executive	 Directors,	 with	 the	 exception	 of	 Alex	 Hannam,	 were	 granted	 option	 awards	 over	 approximately	 100%	 of	 salary.	 It	 is	 the	 committee’s	 intention	 that	 option	 awards	 to	 the	 Executive	 Directors	 in	 2008	 will	 be	 over	 the	 same	 number	 of	 shares	 as	 granted	 in	 2007.	 Options	 are	 granted	 at	 a	 price	 not	 less	 than	 the	 market	 value	 of	 the	 Company’s	 Ordinary	 Shares	 on,	 or	 shortly	 before,	 the	 date	 	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 continued 37	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
an	 option	 is	 granted	 and	 can	 be	 exercised	 up	 to	 ten	 years	 	 after	 grant,	 subject	 to	 certain	 conditions	 as	 described	 below.	 During	 2007,	 options	 were	 granted	 to	 218	 Directors	 and	 	 senior	 executives.
The	 vesting	 of	 options	 granted	 in	 2007	 to	 Executive	 Directors	 and	 Executive	 Committee	 members	 is	 conditional	 upon	 the	 Company’s	 underlying	 EPS	 growth	 exceeding	 inflation	 by	 at	 least	 3%	 per	 annum	 over	 a	 three-year	 period.	 Options	 vest	 in	 full	 at	 EPS	 growth	 of	 RPI	 +	 10%	 per	 annum.	 25%	 vest	 at	 EPS	 growth	 of	 RPI	 +	 3%	 per	 annum.	 Options	 vest	 on	 a	 straight-
line	 sliding	 scale	 for	 performance	 between	 these	 levels;	 no	 options	 vest	 if	 EPS	 growth	 is	 less	 than	 RPI	 +	 3%	 per	 annum.	 The	 vesting	 of	 options	 granted	 to	 US-based	 participants	 (other	 than	 US-based	 Executive	 Committee	 members)	 is	 conditional	 only	 on	 continued	 employment	 and	 vest	 in	 25%	 increments	 on	 each	 anniversary	 of	 grant	 over	 four	 years.	 In	 the	 event	 of	 a	 change	 of	 control,	 vesting	 of	 ESOS	 awards	 is	 not	 automatic	 and	 would	 depend	 on	 the	 extent	 to	 which	 the	 committee	 determines	 the	 performance	 conditions	 had	 been	 met	 at	 the	 time.	 Any	 vested	 awards	 not	 exercised	 within	 one	 month	 of	 the	 change	 of	 control	 would	 lapse.
Bonus Co-investment Plan
Commencing	 with	 bonuses	 earned	 for	 the	 2007	 financial	 year	 (paid	 in	 Spring	 2008),	 senior	 executives	 can	 defer	 up	 to	 50%	 of	 their	 net	 earned	 annual	 bonus	 into	 Cobham	 shares	 in	 return	 for	 an	 opportunity	 to	 earn	 a	 matching	 award	 of	 shares	 against	 the	 gross	 bonus	 invested,	 on	 an	 up	 to	 2:1	 ratio.	 Matching	 awards	 vest	 after	 three	 years	 subject	 to	 stretching	 three-year	 Economic	 Profit	 growth	 targets.	 There	 is	 no	 phased	 vesting.	 	 In	 the	 event	 of	 a	 change	 of	 control,	 vesting	 of	 BCP	 matching	 awards	 is	 not	 automatic	 and	 would	 depend	 on	 the	 extent	 to	 which	 the	 performance	 conditions	 had	 been	 met	 at	 the	 time	 and	 the	 period	 elapsed	 since	 the	 date	 of	 grant.	 Other share schemes 
The	 Cobham	 Savings	 Related	 Share	 Option	 Scheme	 is	 an	 Inland	 Revenue	 approved	 scheme	 open	 to	 UK	 employees.	 	 The	 maximum	 that	 can	 be	 saved	 each	 month	 is	 £250	 and	 savings	 plus	 interest	 may	 be	 used	 to	 acquire	 shares	 by	 exercising	 the	 related	 option.	 Options	 have	 been	 granted	 at	 	 a	 20%	 discount	 to	 market	 value.	 The	 Executive	 Directors	 are	 permitted	 to	 participate	 in	 the	 scheme.
The	 Company	 also	 operates	 another	 Inland	 Revenue	 approved	 all-employee	 share	 scheme,	 the	 Cobham	 Share	 Incentive	 Plan.	 This	 scheme	 operates	 within	 specific	 tax	 legislation	 and	 enables	 participants	 to	 buy	 Cobham	 Ordinary	 Shares	 out	 of	 pre-tax	 income.	 The	 Executive	 Directors	 are	 permitted	 to	 participate	 in	 the	 scheme	 and	 details	 of	 their	 participation	 	 are	 included	 in	 Table	 1	 on	 page	 39.
Performance graph
The	 following	 graph	 illustrates	 the	 TSR	 performance	 (share	 price	 growth	 plus	 dividends)	 of	 the	 Company	 against	 the	 FTSE	 350	 Index	 over	 the	 past	 five	 years.	 The	 FTSE	 350	 Index	 was	 chosen	 as	 it	 is	 a	 recognised	 broad	 equity	 market	 index	 of	 which	 the	 Company	 is	 a	 member.	 Directors’ pensions 
Executive	 Directors	 participate	 in	 the	 Cobham	 Executives	 Pension	 Plan	 (the	 ‘Plan’).	 The	 Plan	 provides	 benefits	 on	 final	 pay	 principles	 against	 a	 normal	 pension	 age	 of	 60	 subject	 to	 actuarial	 reduction	 for	 earlier	 retirement.	 Pension	 accrues	 at	 1/30th	 of	 pensionable	 earnings,	 i.e.	 base	 salary,	 for	 each	 year	 of	 service	 and	 participants	 contribute	 at	 a	 rate	 of	 7%-15%	 of	 pensionable	 earnings.
All	 pensions	 in	 payment	 relating	 to	 post-April	 1997	 rights	 are	 increased	 in	 line	 with	 the	 retail	 prices	 index,	 subject	 to	 a	 minimum	 of	 3%	 per	 annum	 and	 a	 maximum	 of	 5%	 per	 annum,	 with	 the	 balance	 of	 pension	 being	 increased	 at	 3%	 per	 annum.	 On	 death	 in	 service,	 a	 lump	 sum	 of	 four	 times	 pensionable	 earnings	 is	 payable	 together	 with	 a	 spouse’s	 pension	 of	 two-thirds	 of	 the	 member’s	 prospective	 pension.	 On	 death	 after	 retirement,	 a	 spouse’s	 pension	 is	 paid	 at	 the	 rate	 of	 two-thirds	 of	 the	 member’s	 pre-
commutation	 pension.	 Similar	 spouse’s	 pensions	 are	 payable	 on	 the	 death	 of	 a	 deferred	 pensioner	 prior	 to	 retirement.
The	 pension	 benefits	 of	 Directors	 who	 are	 members	 of	 the	 Plan	 were	 restricted	 by	 the	 Inland	 Revenue’s	 earning	 cap	 until	 5	 April	 2006	 and	 thereafter	 by	 a	 scheme	 specific	 salary	 cap.	 Contributions	 in	 respect	 of	 such	 members	 were	 paid	 into	 funded	 unapproved	 retirement	 benefit	 schemes	 (FURBS)	 until	 5	 April	 2006	 and	 details	 of	 the	 amounts	 paid	 are	 set	 out	 in	 Table	 2(b)	 on	 page	 40.	 No	 further	 contributions	 have	 been	 or	 will	 be	 made	 to	 FURBS	 after	 6	 April	 2006.	 Cash	 payments	 in	 lieu	 of	 contributions	 to	 a	 FURBS	 made	 to	 Directors	 are	 mentioned	 in	 notes	 to	 Table	 1	 on	 page	 39.	 In	 the	 case	 of	 Alex	 Hannam,	 a	 sum	 was	 paid	 to	 a	 personal	 pension	 as	 set	 out	 in	 the	 notes	 to	 Table	 2(b)	 on	 page	 40.	 	 The	 policy	 in	 respect	 of	 newly-appointed	 Directors	 is	 that	 payments	 by	 the	 Company	 to	 a	 defined	 contribution	 top-up	 arrangement	 or	 in	 the	 form	 of	 non-pensionable	 cash	 allowances	 should	 normally	 be	 2%	 of	 annual	 basic	 salary	 per	 month.
Details	 of	 Directors’	 pension	 benefits	 as	 required	 by	 the	 Regulations	 are	 set	 out	 in	 Table	 2(a)	 on	 page	 39.
250
Cobham Source: Kepler Associates
100
Value (£)
150
0
31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 07
Value of £100 invested over the ﬁve-year period ending 
31 December 2007
200
50
FTSE 350
250
Cobham Source: Kepler Associates
100
Value (£)
150
0
31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 07
Value of £100 invested over the ﬁve-year period ending 
31 December 2007
200
50
FTSE 350 38	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Service contracts
The	 Board’s	 policy	 on	 notice	 periods	 for	 new	 Directors	 is	 that	 these	 should	 not	 normally	 exceed	 one	 year.	 It	 recognises,	 however,	 that	 it	 may	 be	 necessary	 in	 the	 case	 of	 new	 executive	 appointments	 to	 offer	 a	 longer	 initial	 notice	 period	 which	 would	 subsequently	 reduce	 to	 one	 year.	 Allan	 Cook’s	 service	 contract	 (dated	 13	 June	 2001)	 is	 terminable	 on	 one	 year’s	 notice	 by	 either	 party.	 Alex	 Hannam’s	 service	 contract	 (dated	 13	 February	 2003	 and	 subsequently	 amended)	 expired	 on	 31	 December	 2007.	 Warren	 Tucker’s	 and	 Andy	 Stevens’	 service	 contracts	 (both	 of	 which	 are	 dated	 1	 January	 2004)	 are	 terminable	 on	 one	 year’s	 notice	 by,	 and	 six	 months’	 notice	 to,	 the	 Company.	 The	 Company	 may	 elect	 to	 terminate	 Directors’	 service	 contracts	 by	 making	 payments	 in	 lieu	 of	 notice.	 Such	 payments	 are	 calculated	 by	 reference	 to	 the	 base	 salary	 otherwise	 payable	 during	 the	 notice	 period.	 Payments	 in	 respect	 of	 annual	 bonus	 for	 the	 relevant	 periods	 may	 also	 be	 payable.	 In	 the	 case	 of	 Warren	 Tucker,	 any	 payment	 in	 lieu	 of	 notice	 shall	 include	 a	 sum	 equal	 to	 the	 value	 of	 his	 annual	 benefits.	 The	 Company	 recognises	 and	 endorses	 the	 obligation	 of	 departing	 Directors	 to	 mitigate	 their	 own	 losses.
Personal shareholding
Executive	 Directors	 and	 other	 senior	 executives	 are	 required	 to	 acquire	 and	 hold,	 over	 time,	 Cobham	 plc	 Ordinary	 Shares	 to	 the	 value	 of	 at	 least	 one	 year’s	 salary.	 Executives	 subject	 to	 the	 ownership	 guidelines	 are	 required	 to	 retain	 a	 minimum	 of	 50%	 of	 net	 vested	 PSP	 and	 BCP	 matching	 shares,	 and	 50%	 of	 net	 shares	 resulting	 from	 the	 exercise	 of	 ESOS	 options	 until	 the	 relevant	 ownership	 level	 is	 met.
Non-executive Directors
The	 Board	 aims	 to	 recruit	 Non-executive	 Directors	 of	 a	 high	 calibre	 with	 broad	 commercial,	 international	 or	 other	 relevant	 experience.	 The	 Non-executive	 Directors	 do	 not	 have	 service	 contracts.	 Details	 of	 the	 terms	 of	 the	 appointment	 of	 the	 current	 Non-executive	 Directors	 are	 as	 follows:
Director	 	 	 	 Commencement 	 date	 	 Expiry	 date
Gordon	 Page	 	 	 	 1 	 December	 2003	 17 	 November	 2008
Peter	 Hooley	 	 	 	 12	 June	 2002	 30	 June	 2008
Marcus	 Beresford	 	 	 	 1	 March	 2004	 28 	 February	 2010
John	 Patterson	 	 	 	 1 	 November	 2005	 31 	 October	 2008
Mark	 Ronald	 	 	 	 8 	 January	 2007	 7 	 January	 2010
David	 Turner	 	 	 	 1 	 December	 2007	 30 	 November	 2010
Except	 in	 Gordon	 Page’s	 case,	 no	 compensation	 is	 payable	 in	 the	 event	 of	 an	 appointment	 being	 terminated	 early.	 Under	 Gordon	 Page’s	 letter	 of	 appointment,	 six	 months’	 notice	 of	 termination	 is	 required	 to	 be	 given	 by	 either	 party.	 As	 a	 result,	 compensation	 might	 be	 payable	 for	 earlier	 termination.	 Each	 Non-executive	 Director	 has	 given	 an	 undertaking	 that	 he	 has	 sufficient	 time	 to	 meet	 what	 is	 expected	 of	 him	 as	 a	 Director.
The	 general	 purposes	 committee,	 the	 membership	 of	 which	 comprises	 Executive	 Directors	 only,	 is	 responsible	 for	 determining	 the	 remuneration	 of	 the	 Non-executive	 Directors	 with	 the	 exception	 of	 the	 Chairman,	 whose	 remuneration	 is	 determined	 by	 the	 remuneration	 committee.	 The	 fees	 payable	 are	 as	 follows:
	 	 	 	 	 	 Fees	 payable	 from	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	 January	 2007
Chairman	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £160,000
Deputy	 Chairman	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	£260,000
Non-executive	 Director	 (basic)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £39,000
Chairman	 of	 audit	 committee	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £10,000
Chairman	 of	 remuneration	 committee	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £10,000
Senior	 Independent	 Director	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £10,000
Membership	 of	 audit	 and	 remuneration	 committees	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £2,500
Non-executive	 Directors	 do	 not	 participate	 in	 any	 of	 the	 Company’s	 share	 schemes,	 pension	 schemes	 or	 bonus	 arrangements	 with	 the	 exception	 of	 Gordon	 Page	 who	 receives	 a	 pension	 under	 the	 Plan.
Mark	 Ronald	 receives	 an	 allowance	 of	 £5,000	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 additional	 travelling	 time	 required	 to	 ensure	 his	 attendance	 at	 Board	 meetings.
No	 additional	 fees	 are	 payable	 to	 the	 Deputy	 Chairman	 in	 respect	 of	 his	 membership	 of	 any	 of	 the	 board	 committees.
Auditable part
The	 auditable	 part	 of	 this	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 is	 set	 out	 on	 pages	 39	 to	 41.
Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 continued 39	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Table 1: Directors’ emoluments 
The	 remuneration	 of	 the	 Directors,	 including	 the	 Chairman	 and	 the	 highest	 paid	 Director,	 was	 as	 follows:
	 	 Executive	 Directors’	 Fees	 and	 	 Benefits	 Total	 	 	 base	 salaries	 other 	 payments	 Bonus	 excluding 	 pension	 excluding 	 pension
£k	 	 2007	 2006	 2007	 2006	 2007	 2006	 2007	 2006	 2007	 2006
G	 F	 Page
1
	 –	 –	 185	 171	 –	 –	 28	 29	 213	 200
A	 E	 Cook
2
	 535	 500	 185	 132	 524	 292	 25	 34	 1,269	 958
G	 C	 Cooper
3
	 –	 –	 –	 148	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –	 148
A	 J	 Hannam
4
	 268	 262	 13	 13	 322	 258	 1	 1	 604	 534
W	 G	 Tucker
5
	 366	 345	 88	 77	 358	 212	 23	 21	 835	 655
A	 J	 Stevens
6
	 394	 366	 94	 97	 386	 210	 24	 24	 898	 697
J	 W	 Edington	 –	 –	 19	 44	 –	 –	 –	 –	 19	 44
P	 Hooley	 –	 –	 51	 51	 –	 –	 –	 –	 51	 51
M	 Beresford	 –	 –	 54	 54	 –	 –	 –	 – 	 54 	 54
J	 S	 Patterson	 –	 –	 51	 51	 –	 –	 –	 –	 51	 51
M	 H	 Ronald	 –	 –	 47	 –	 –	 – 	 – 	 –	 47	 –
D	 J	 Turner	 –	 –	 22	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –	 22	 –
Total	 remuneration	 1,563	 1,473	 809	 	 838	 1,590	 972	 101	 109	 4,063	 3,392	 Subject	 as	 follows,	 benefits	 relate	 to	 the	 provision	 of	 Company	 cars	 and	 fuel,	 medical	 insurance,	 telephones	 and	 subscriptions	 (2006	 only).	 Allan	 Cook’s	 benefits	 include	 the	 provision	 of	 professional	 advice	 and	 life	 assurance	 (2006	 only).	 Alex	 Hannam’s	 benefits	 relate	 to	 medical	 insurance.	 Warren	 Tucker’s	 benefits	 include	 the	 provision	 of	 professional	 advice	 but	 do	 not	 include	 subscriptions.	 Andy	 Stevens’s	 benefits	 do	 not	 include	 telephones.	 1		 Emoluments	 for	 2006	 include	 –	 under	 fees	 and	 other	 payments	 (‘Payments’)	 –	 the	 sum	 of	 £9,000	 paid	 as	 a	 gratuity	 in	 view	 of	 Gordon	 Page’s	 inability	 until	 6	 April	 2006	 to	 draw	 pension	 benefits	 whilst	 continuing	 to	 act	 as	 a	 Director.
2	 Emoluments	 for	 2006/7	 include	 –	 under	 Payments	 –	 the	 sum	 of	 £185,000	 (2006:	 £132,000)	 in	 lieu	 of	 payments	 into	 an	 approved	 defined	 contribution	 top-up	 arrangement.
3	 A	 further	 compensation	 payment	 amounting	 to	 £148,000	 was	 paid	 during	 2006	 in	 relation	 to	 Geoff	 Cooper’s	 resignation	 on	 17	 June	 2005.	 4		 Emoluments	 for	 2006/7	 include	 –	 under	 Payments	 –	 a	 cash	 allowance	 of	 £13,000	 (2006:	 £13,000)	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 provision	 of	 a	 car	 and	 fuel.	 This	 payment	 is	 not	 taken	 into	 account	 in	 calculating	 bonus	 and	 share	 scheme	 entitlements.
5		 Emoluments	 for	 2006	 include	 –	 under	 Payments	 –	 a	 cash	 payment	 of	 £19,000	 in	 lieu	 of	 payments	 into	 a	 funded	 unapproved	 retirement	 benefits	 scheme	 and	 the	 sum	 of	 £58,000	 in	 lieu	 of	 payments	 to	 an	 approved	 defined	 contribution	 top-up	 arrangement.	 Emoluments	 for	 2007	 include	 –	 under	 Payments	 –	 the	 sum	 of	 £88,000	 in	 lieu	 of	 payments	 to	 an	 approved	 defined	 contribution	 top-up	 arrangement.	 These	 payments	 are	 not	 taken	 into	 account	 in	 calculating	 bonus	 and	 share	 scheme	 entitlements.
6		 Emoluments	 for	 2006	 include	 –	 under	 Payments	 –	 the	 sum	 of	 £67,000	 in	 lieu	 of	 payments	 to	 an	 approved	 defined	 contribution	 top-up	 arrangement	 and	 £30,000	 in	 connection	 with	 the	 acceptance	 of	 office.	 Emoluments	 for	 2007	 include	 –	 under	 Payments	 –	 the	 sum	 of	 £94,000	 in	 lieu	 of	 payments	 into	 an	 approved	 defined	 contribution	 top-up	 arrangement.	 These	 payments	 are	 not	 taken	 into	 account	 in	 calculating	 bonus	 and	 share	 scheme	 entitlements.
Table 2(a): Directors’ pensions
	 	 Increase	 	 Transfer 	 value	 	 	 	 	 	 in	 accrued	 	 of 	 pension	 	 	 Additional 	 	 	 pension	 from	 Additional	 accrued	 	 	 transfer 	 value	 	 	 previous	 pension	 in 	 excess	 Transfer	 	 accrued 	 in	 	 	 year	 end	 earned	 of 	 inflation	 value 	 of	 Transfer	 excess 	 of	 	 Accrued	 (with 	 no	 in 	 excess	 and 	 members’	 accrued	 value 	 of	 members’ 	 	 pension	 at	 adjustment	 of 	 inflation	 contributions	 pension 	 at	 accrued	 contributions 	 	 31.12.07	 for 	 inflation)	 during 	 2007	 during 	 2007	 31.12.06	 pension	 during 	 2007	 	 £	 p.a.	 £ 	 p.a.	 £ 	 p.a.	 £	 £	 £	 £
A	 E	 Cook	 27,667	 5,479	 4,680	 80,211	 452,744	 569,975	 99,513
A	 J	 Hannam	 18,008	 4,230	 3,734	 76,734	 314,879	 393,592	 72,413
A	 J	 Stevens	 16,333	 4,750	 4,333	 57,347	 179,767	 252,705	 55,219
W	 G	 Tucker	 18,667	 4,917	 4,422	 46,357	 169,480	 227,040	 49,292
Gordon	 Page	 commenced	 his	 pension	 in	 2006,	 and	 accrued	 no	 further	 benefits	 in	 2007.	 He	 is	 therefore	 not	 included	 in	 the	 	 above	 figures.
The	 accrued	 pension	 for	 Alex	 Hannam	 is	 based	 on	 his	 pension	 accrued	 up	 to	 his	 normal	 retirement	 date,	 28	 March	 2006,	 adjusted	 to	 reflect	 the	 deferment	 of	 his	 retirement,	 together	 with	 additional	 pension	 accrued	 from	 28	 March	 2007	 to	 	 31	 December	 2007.
Members’	 contributions	 taken	 into	 account	 in	 the	 above	 figures	 are:
	 	 	 	 	 	 Total	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Rate	 contributions	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £
A	 E	 Cook	 	 	 	 15%	 17,719
A	 J	 Hannam	 	 	 	 7%	 6,300 	 	 9 	 months	 only
A	 J	 Stevens	 	 	 	 15%	 17,719
W	 G	 Tucker	 	 	 	 7%	 8,269 40	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Table 2(b)
The	 pension	 benefits	 of	 Directors	 who	 are	 members	 of	 the	 Plan	 were	 restricted	 by	 the	 Inland	 Revenue’s	 earning	 cap	 until	 	 5	 April	 2006	 and	 thereafter	 by	 a	 scheme	 specific	 salary	 cap.	 Contributions	 in	 respect	 of	 such	 members	 were	 paid	 into	 funded	 unapproved	 retirement	 benefit	 schemes	 (FURBS)	 until	 5	 April	 2006.	 No	 further	 contributions	 have	 been	 or	 will	 be	 made	 to	 FURBS	 after	 6	 April	 2006.
	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
1
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 £000 	 £000
A	 E	 Cook	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 38
A	 J	 Hannam
2
	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 14
A	 J	 Stevens	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 20
1		 The	 contributions	 made	 in	 2006	 relate	 to	 the	 period	 ending	 on	 5	 April	 (or	 the	 member’s	 60th	 birthday	 if	 earlier).	 Subsequently,	 cash	 payments	 in	 lieu	 of	 payments	 to	 an	 approved	 defined	 contributions	 top-up	 arrangement	 were	 made	 to	 Directors,	 other	 than	 Alex	 Hannam,	 and	 these	 are	 referred	 to	 in	 the	 notes	 to	 Table	 1.
2		 A	 payment	 of	 £49,243	 (2006:	 £97,000)	 was	 made	 to	 Alex	 Hannam’s	 self	 invested	 pension	 plan	 in	 connection	 with	 the	 extension	 of	 his	 service	 contract	 in	 lieu	 of	 continued	 pension	 accrual	 under	 the	 Company’s	 pension	 arrangements.
Table 3(a): Directors’ share interests 
The	 interests	 of	 the	 Directors	 and	 their	 families	 in	 Cobham	 plc’s	 Ordinary	 Shares	 were:
	 	 	 	 	 	 At 	 1.1.07	 At 	 31.12.07
G	 F	 Page	 	 	 	 	 	 1,812,171	 1,812,438
A	 E	 Cook	 	 	 	 	 	 47,669	 53,657
A	 J	 Hannam	 	 	 	 	 	 42,049	 42,753
W	 G	 Tucker	 	 	 	 	 	 30,058 	 	 44,019
A	 J	 Stevens	 	 	 	 	 	 17,099	 17,810
J	 W	 Edington	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –
P	 Hooley	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –
M	 Beresford	 	 	 	 	 	 15,000	 15,000
J	 S	 Patterson	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 5,000
M	 H	 Ronald	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –
D	 J	 Turner	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 	 –	 The	 above	 interests	 are	 all	 beneficial.	 Interests	 in	 share	 options	 and	 shares	 provisionally	 allocated	 under	 the	 Cobham	 	 Long-Term	 Incentive	 Plan	 and	 Cobham	 Performance	 Share	 Plan	 are	 not	 included	 in	 Table	 3(a)	 but	 are	 disclosed	 in	 	 Tables	 3(b)	 and	 4	 respectively.	 Interests	 at	 14	 March	 2008	 being	 a	 date	 no	 more	 than	 one	 month	 prior	 to	 the	 date	 of	 the	 notice	 convening	 the	 AGM,	 	 were	 the	 same	 as	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 save	 that	 beneficial	 share	 interests	 disclosed	 in	 Table	 3(a)	 of	 D	 J	 Turner,	 A	 E	 Cook,	 	 A	 J	 Stevens	 and	 W	 G	 Tucker	 had	 increased	 by	 20,000;	 78,157;	 28,761	 and	 48,723	 ordinary	 2.5p	 shares	 respectively,	 as	 a	 	 result	 of	 share	 purchases.
Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 continued 41	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Table 3(b): Directors’ share options 
Details	 of	 Directors’	 interests	 in	 options	 over	 Cobham	 plc’s	 Ordinary	 Shares	 granted	 under	 the	 Cobham	 Savings	 Related	 Share	 Option	 Scheme	 and	 the	 Cobham	 Executive	 Share	 Option	 Scheme	 2004	 were:
	 	 	 	 	 	 Market	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Exercise	 price 	 at	 date	 	 Date 	 from	 	 	 	 At	 Number 	 of	 options	 during	 the	 year	 	 At	 price	 of 	 exercise	 which	 Expiry
	 	 1.1.07	 Granted	 Exercised	 Lapsed	 31.12.07	 – 	 pence	 – 	 pence	 exercisable	 date
A	 E	 Cook	 16,600	 	 –	 –	 16,600	 84.0	 –	 01.02.09	 01.08.09
	 	 3,780	 	 –	 –	 3,780	 93.9	 –	 01.02.11	 01.08.11
	 	 228,230*	 	 –	 –	 228,230	 134.7	 –	 20.09.07	 20.09.14
	 	 246,820*	 	 –	 –	 246,820	 133.7	 –	 11.05.08	 11.05.15
	 	 269,789*	 	 –	 –	 269,789	 185.3	 –	 20.04.09	 20.04.16
	 	 4,620	 	 –	 –	 4,620	 153.0	 –	 01.02.10	 01.08.10
	 	 	 261,614*	 –	 –	 261,614	 204.5	 –	 26.03.10	 26.03.17
	 	 769,839	 	 	 	 1,031,453	 	 	 	 A	 J	 Hannam	 7,420	 	 –	 –	 7,420	 93.9	 –	 01.02.09	 01.08.09
	 	 4,930	 	 –	 –	 4,930	 107.6	 –	 01.02.08	 01.08.08
	 	 128,030*	 	 –	 –	 128,030	 134.7	 –	 20.09.07	 20.09.14
	 	 138,000*	 	 –	 –	 138,000	 133.7	 –	 11.05.08	 11.05.15
	 	 278,380	 	 	 	 278,380	 	 	 	 W	 G	 Tucker	 16,610	 	 –	 –	 16,610	 107.6	 –	 01.02.12	 01.08.12
	 	 155,860*	 	 –	 –	 155,860	 134.7	 	 –	 20.09.07	 20.09.14
	 	 180,070*	 	 –	 –	 180,070	 133.7	 	 –	 11.05.08	 11.05.15
	 	 186,154*	 	 –	 –	 186,154	 185.3	 	 –	 20.04.09	 20.04.16
	 	 	 178,826*	 –	 –	 178,826 	 	 204.5	 –	 26.03.10 	 	 26.03.17
	 	 538,694	 	 	 	 717,520	 	 	 	 A	 J	 Stevens	 15,350	 	 –	 –	 15,350	 107.6	 –	 01.02.10	 01.08.10
	 	 167,000*	 	 –	 –	 167,000	 134.7	 –	 20.09.07	 20.09.14
	 	 180,070*	 	 –	 –	 180,070	 133.7	 –	 11.05.08	 11.05.15
	 	 202,341*	 	 –	 –	 202,341	 185.3	 –	 20.04.09	 20.04.16
	 	 	 192,543*	 –	 –	 192,543	 204.5	 –	 26.03.10 	 	 26.03.17
	 	 564,761	 	 	 	 	 757,304	 	 	 	 	 *	 Granted	 under	 the	 Cobham	 Executive	 Share	 Option	 Scheme	 2004.	 All	 other	 options	 were	 granted	 under	 the	 Cobham	 Savings	 Related	 Share	 Option	 Scheme.
The	 market	 price	 of	 Cobham	 plc	 Ordinary	 Shares	 as	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 was	 209p	 per	 share	 and	 the	 closing	 price	 range	 	 during	 the	 year	 was	 181.5p	 to	 222.5p.
No	 gains	 were	 made	 by	 Directors	 on	 the	 exercise	 of	 share	 options	 during	 the	 year.	 Table 4: Allocations under the Cobham Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Cobham Performance Share Plan
	 	 Conditionally	 	 	 	 Monetary	 	 	 awarded	 Lapsed	 Vested	 Allocations 	 	 value	 	 	 Allocation	 	 during 	 	 during	 during 	 	 at	 of 	 vested	 	 at	 1.1.07	 the 	 year
1
	 the 	 year
2
	 year	 31.12.07	 awards	 Expiry 	 date
3
A	 E	 Cook	 634,401	 –	 253,380	 –	 381,021	 –	 20.04.09
	 	 –	 	 251,174*	 –	 –	 251,174	 –	 12.06.10
A	 J	 Hannam	 277,630	 –	 142,140	 –	 135,490	 –	 20.04.09
W	 G	 Tucker	 445,530	 –	 173,040	 –	 272,490	 –	 20.04.09
	 	 –	 171,690*	 –	 –	 171,690	 –	 12.06.10
A	 J	 Stevens	 570,221	 –	 185,400	 –	 384,821	 –	 20.04.09
	 	 –	 184,859*	 –	 –	 184,859	 –	 12.06.10
	 *	 Awarded	 under	 the	 Cobham	 Performance	 Share	 Plan.	 All	 other	 awards	 were	 granted	 under	 the	 Cobham	 Long-Term	 Incentive	 Plan.
1	 The	 market	 price	 of	 a	 Cobham	 plc	 Ordinary	 Share	 on	 12	 June	 2007,	 being	 the	 date	 of	 the	 awards	 made	 during	 the	 year,	 was	 213.25p.	 2	 Lapsed	 shares	 comprise	 those	 shares	 conditionally	 awarded	 in	 2004.
3		 The	 expiry	 date	 is	 the	 last	 date	 by	 which	 qualifying	 conditions	 in	 respect	 of	 any	 outstanding	 interests	 under	 the	 relevant	 plan	 have	 to	 be	 fulfilled.	 This	 date	 may	 either	 be	 the	 expiry	 of	 any	 	 relevant	 holding	 period	 or	 (where	 applicable)	 of	 any	 restricted	 period.
Interests	 at	 14	 March	 2008,	 being	 a	 date	 not	 more	 than	 one	 month	 prior	 to	 the	 date	 of	 the	 notice	 convening	 the	 AGM,	 were	 the	 same	 as	 at	 31	 December	 2007.
By	 order	 of	 the	 Board
J S Patterson 
Chairman	 of	 the	 Remuneration	 Committee
14	 March	 2008 42	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
The	 Directors	 are	 responsible	 for	 preparing	 the	 Annual	 Report,	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 and	 the	 Group	 and	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 in	 accordance	 with	 applicable	 law	 and	 regulations.
Company	 law	 requires	 the	 Directors	 to	 prepare	 financial	 statements	 for	 each	 financial	 year.	 Under	 that	 law	 the	 Directors	 have	 prepared	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 in	 accordance	 with	 International	 Financial	 Reporting	 Standards	 (IFRS)	 as	 adopted	 by	 the	 European	 Union,	 and	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 and	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 in	 accordance	 with	 applicable	 law	 and	 United	 Kingdom	 Accounting	 Standards	 (United	 Kingdom	 Generally	 Accepted	 Accounting	 Practice).	 The	 Group	 and	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 are	 required	 by	 law	 to	 give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view	 of	 the	 state	 of	 affairs	 of	 the	 Company	 and	 the	 Group	 and	 of	 the	 profit	 or	 loss	 of	 the	 Group	 for	 that	 period.
In	 preparing	 those	 financial	 statements,	 the	 Directors	 are	 required	 to:
		 Select	 suitable	 accounting	 policies	 and	 then	 apply	 them	 consistently;
		 Make	 judgements	 and	 estimates	 that	 are	 reasonable	 and	 prudent;
		 State	 that	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 comply	 	 with	 IFRS	 as	 adopted	 by	 the	 European	 Union,	 and	 with	 regard	 to	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 that	 applicable	 UK	 Accounting	 Standards	 have	 been	 followed,	 subject	 to	 any	 material	 departures	 disclosed	 and	 explained	 in	 the	 financial	 statements;	 and
		 Prepare	 the	 Group	 and	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 on	 the	 going	 concern	 basis	 unless	 it	 is	 inappropriate	 to	 presume	 that	 the	 Group	 will	 continue	 in	 business.	 The	 Directors	 confirm	 that	 they	 have	 complied	 with	 the	 above	 requirements	 in	 preparing	 the	 financial	 statements.
The	 Directors	 are	 responsible	 for	 keeping	 proper	 accounting	 records	 that	 disclose	 with	 reasonable	 accuracy	 at	 any	 time	 	 the	 financial	 position	 of	 the	 Company	 and	 the	 Group	 and	 to	 enable	 them	 to	 ensure	 that	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 comply	 with	 the	 Companies	 Act	 1985	 and	 Article	 4	 of	 the	 	 IAS	 Regulation	 and	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 and	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 comply	 with	 the	 Companies	 Act	 1985.	 They	 are	 also	 responsible	 for	 safeguarding	 the	 assets	 of	 the	 Company	 and	 the	 Group	 and	 hence	 for	 taking	 reasonable	 steps	 for	 the	 prevention	 and	 detection	 of	 fraud	 and	 other	 irregularities.
Statement	 of	 Directors’	 responsibilities 43	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
We	 have	 audited	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 of	 Cobham	 plc	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2007	 which	 comprise	 	 the	 consolidated	 income	 statement,	 the	 consolidated	 balance	 sheet,	 the	 consolidated	 cash	 flow	 statement,	 the	 consolidated	 statement	 of	 recognised	 income	 and	 expense,	 the	 related	 notes	 and	 the	 accounting	 policies.	 These	 Group	 financial	 statements	 have	 been	 prepared	 under	 the	 accounting	 policies	 set	 out	 therein.
We	 have	 reported	 separately	 on	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 of	 Cobham	 plc	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2007	 and	 on	 the	 information	 in	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 that	 is	 described	 as	 having	 been	 audited.	 Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The	 Directors’	 responsibilities	 for	 preparing	 the	 Annual	 Report	 and	the	Group	financial	statements	in	accordance	with	 applicable	 law	 and	 International	 Financial	 Reporting	 Standards	 (IFRSs)	 as	 adopted	 by	 the	 European	 Union	 are	 set	 out	 in	 the	 statement	 of	 Directors’	 responsibilities.
Our	 responsibility	 is	 to	 audit	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 	 in	 accordance	 with	 relevant	 legal	 and	 regulatory	 requirements	 and	 International	 Standards	 on	 Auditing	 (UK	 and	 Ireland).	 	 This	 report,	 including	 the	 opinion,	 has	 been	 prepared	 for	 and	 only	 for	 the	 Company’s	 members	 as	 a	 body	 in	 accordance	 with	 Section	 235	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 1985	 and	 for	 no	 other	 purpose.	 We	 do	 not,	 in	 giving	 this	 opinion,	 accept	 or	 assume	 responsibility	 for	 any	 other	 purpose	 or	 to	 any	 other	 person	 to	 whom	 this	 report	 is	 shown	 or	 into	 whose	 hands	 it	 may	 come	 save	 where	 expressly	 agreed	 by	 our	 prior	 consent	 in	 writing.
We	 report	 to	 you	 our	 opinion	 as	 to	 whether	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view	 and	 whether	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 have	 been	 properly	 prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 Companies	 Act	 1985	 and	 Article	 4	 of	 the	 IAS	 Regulation.	 We	 also	 report	 to	 you	 whether	 in	 our	 opinion	 the	 information	 given	 in	 the	 Directors’	 report	 is	 consistent	 with	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements.	 In	 addition	 we	 report	 to	 you	 if,	 in	 our	 opinion,	 we	 have	 not	 received	 all	 the	 information	 and	 explanations	 we	 require	 for	 	 our	 audit,	 or	 if	 information	 specified	 by	 law	 regarding	 Director’s	 remuneration	 and	 other	 transactions	 is	 not	 disclosed.
We	 review	 whether	 the	 Corporate	 governance	 statement	 reflects	 the	 Company’s	 compliance	 with	 the	 nine	 provisions	 	 of	 the	 Combined	 Code	 (2006)	 specified	 for	 our	 review	 by	 	 the	 Listing	 Rules	 of	 the	 Financial	 Services	 Authority,	 and	 we	 report	 if	 it	 does	 not.	 We	 are	 not	 required	 to	 consider	 whether	 the	 board’s	 statements	 on	 internal	 control	 cover	 all	 risks	 and	 controls,	 or	 form	 an	 opinion	 on	 the	 effectiveness	 of	 the	 Group’s	 corporate	 governance	 procedures	 or	 its	 risk	 and	 control	 procedures.
We	 read	 other	 information	 contained	 in	 the	 Annual	 Report	 	 and	 consider	 whether	 it	 is	 consistent	 with	 the	 audited	 Group	 financial	 statements.	 The	 other	 information	 comprises	 only	 the	 Highlights	 2007,	 Cobham	 at	 a	 glance,	 the	 Chairman’s	 Independent	 auditors’	 report	
to	 the	 members	 of	 Cobham	 plc
statement,	 the	 Chief	 Executive’s	 review,	 the	 statement	 on	 strategy,	 the	 Business	 review,	 the	 Financial	 review,	 the	 statement	 on	 corporate	 responsibility,	 the	 Directors’	 report,	 the	 Corporate	 governance	 statement	 and	 the	 unaudited	 part	 of	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report.	 We	 consider	 the	 implications	 for	 our	 report	 if	 we	 become	 aware	 of	 any	 apparent	 misstatements	 or	 material	 inconsistencies	 with	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements.	 Our	 responsibilities	 do	 not	 extend	 to	 any	 other	 information.
Basis of audit opinion
We	 conducted	 our	 audit	 in	 accordance	 with	 International	 Standards	 on	 Auditing	 (UK	 and	 Ireland)	 issued	 by	 the	 Auditing	 Practices	 Board.	 An	 audit	 includes	 examination,	 on	 a	 test	 basis,	 of	 evidence	 relevant	 to	 the	 amounts	 and	 disclosures	 in	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements.	 It	 also	 includes	 an	 assessment	 of	 the	 significant	 estimates	 and	 judgments	 made	 by	 the	 Directors	 in	 the	 preparation	 of	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements,	 and	 of	 whether	 the	 accounting	 policies	 are	 appropriate	 to	 the	 Group’s	 circumstances,	 consistently	 applied	 and	 adequately	 disclosed.
We	 planned	 and	 performed	 our	 audit	 so	 as	 to	 obtain	 all	 the	 information	 and	 explanations	 which	 we	 considered	 necessary	 in	 order	 to	 provide	 us	 with	 sufficient	 evidence	 to	 give	 reasonable	 assurance	 that	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 are	 free	 from	 material	 misstatement,	 whether	 caused	 by	 fraud	 or	 other	 irregularity	 or	 error.	 In	 forming	 our	 opinion	 we	 also	 evaluated	 the	 overall	 adequacy	 of	 the	 presentation	 of	 information	 in	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements.
Opinion
In	 our	 opinion:
		 The	 Group	 financial	 statements	 give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view,	 in	 accordance	 with	 IFRSs	 as	 adopted	 by	 the	 European	 Union,	 of	 the	 state	 of	 the	 Group’s	 affairs	 as	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 and	 of	 its	 profit	 and	 cash	 flows	 for	 the	 year	 then	 ended;
		 The	 Group	 financial	 statements	 have	 been	 properly	 prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 Companies	 Act	 1985	 	 and	 Article	 4	 of	 the	 IAS	 Regulation;	 and
		 The	 information	 given	 in	 the	 Directors’	 report	 is	 consistent	 with	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered	 Accountants	 and	 Registered	 Auditors
Southampton
14	 March	 2008
Notes:
		 The	 maintenance	 and	 integrity	 of	 the	 Cobham	 plc	 website	 is	 the	 responsibility	 of	 the	 Directors;	 the	 work	 carried	 out	 by	 the	 auditors	 does	 not	 involve	 consideration	 of	 these	 matters	 and,	 accordingly,	 the	 auditors	 accept	 no	 responsibility	 for	 any	 changes	 that	 may	 have	 occurred	 to	 the	 financial	 statements	 since	 they	 were	 initially	 presented	 on	 the	 website.
		 Legislation	 in	 the	 United	 Kingdom	 governing	 the	 preparation	 and	 dissemination	 of	 financial	 statements	 may	 differ	 from	 legislation	 in	 other	 jurisdictions. 44	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
General information
These	 financial	 statements	 are	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 of	 Cobham	 plc,	 a	 public	 company	 limited	 by	 shares,	 registered	 and	 domiciled	 in	 the	 United	 Kingdom	 and	 its	 subsidiaries	 (‘the	 Group’).	 The	 address	 of	 the	 registered	 office	 is	 Brook	 Road,	 Wimborne,	 Dorset,	 England	 BH21	 2BJ.
Basis of preparation
These	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 have	 been	 prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 International	 Financial	 Reporting	 Standards	 (IFRS)	 as	 adopted	 by	 the	 EU,	 International	 Financial	 Reporting	 Interpretation	 Council	 (IFRIC)	 interpretations	 and	 those	 parts	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 1985	 applicable	 to	 companies	 reporting	 under	 IFRS.	 These	 financial	 statements	 have	 been	 prepared	 on	 a	 going	 concern	 basis	 under	 the	 historical	 cost	 convention,	 as	 modified	 by	 the	 revaluation	 of	 certain	 borrowings	 and	 derivative	 contracts	 which	 are	 held	 at	 fair	 value.	 The	 preparation	 of	 financial	 statements	 in	 conformity	 with	 generally	 accepted	 accounting	 principles	 requires	 the	 use	 	 of	 estimates	 and	 assumptions	 that	 affect	 the	 reported	 amounts	 of	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 at	 the	 date	 of	 the	 financial	 statements	 and	 the	 reported	 amounts	 of	 revenues	 and	 expenses	 during	 the	 reporting	 period.	 Although	 these	 estimates	 are	 based	 on	 management’s	 best	 knowledge	 	 of	 the	 amount,	 event	 or	 actions,	 actual	 results	 ultimately	 	 may	 differ	 from	 those	 estimates.
The	 following	 new	 standard	 and	 amendment	 to	 an	 existing	 standard	 have	 been	 adopted	 from	 1	 January	 2007:
		 IFRS	 7,	 Financial	 Instruments:	 Disclosures,	 and	 a	 complementary	 amendment	 to	 IAS	 1,	 Presentation	 of	 Financial	 Statements	 –	 Capital	 Disclosures	 	 Revised	 IAS	 23,	 Borrowing	 Costs	 The	 implementation	 of	 IFRS	 7,	 Financial	 Instruments:	 Disclosures,	 and	 a	 complementary	 amendment	 to	 IAS	 1,	 Presentation	 of	 Financial	 Statements	 –	 Capital	 Disclosures	 has	 resulted	 in	 increased	 disclosure	 regarding	 the	 Group’s	 financial	 instruments	 and	 policies	 for	 managing	 capital	 (see	 notes	 27	 and	 28).	 The	 revision	 to	 IAS	 23,	 Borrowing	 Costs,	 has	 been	 adopted	 early	 with	 effect	 from	 1	 January	 2007,	 and	 no	 adjustments	 to	 Group	 accounting	 policies	 were	 required	 on	 adoption	 of	 this	 amendment.	 The	 following	 interpretations	 to	 existing	 standards	 which	 would	 be	 effective	 for	 the	 current	 year	 are	 not	 considered	 relevant	 to	 the	 Group’s	 operations:
		 IFRIC	 7,	 Applying	 the	 restatement	 approach	 under	
IAS	 29	 financial	 reporting	 in	 hyperinflationary	 economies	 		 IFRIC	 8,	 The	 Scope	 of	 IFRS	 2
		 IFRIC	 9,	 Reassessment	 of	 embedded	 derivatives
		 IFRIC	 10,	 Interim	 financial	 reporting	 and	 impairment
The	 principal	 accounting	 policies,	 which	 have	 been	 consistently	 applied,	 are	 as	 set	 out	 below.	 	 Basis of consolidation
The	 Group	 financial	 statements	 include	 the	 financial	 statements	 of	 the	 parent	 company	 and	 of	 all	 its	 subsidiaries	 made	 up	 to	 the	 end	 of	 the	 financial	 period.	 Joint	 ventures	 	 and	 associates	 are	 accounted	 for	 using	 the	 equity	 method	 	 and	 include	 the	 Group’s	 share	 of	 the	 total	 recognised	 gains	 and	 losses	 of	 joint	 ventures	 and	 associates	 from	 the	 date	 	 that	 joint	 control	 or	 significant	 influence	 commences	 until	 	 the	 date	 this	 ceases.	 Businesses	 acquired	 are	 accounted	 for	 as	 acquisitions,	 with	 effect	 from	 the	 date	 control	 passes.	 Purchases	 of	 minority	 interests	 are	 accounted	 for	 using	 the	 economic	 entity	 method.	 Businesses	 disposed	 of	 are	 accounted	 for	 up	 until	 control	 passes	 at	 the	 point	 of	 their	 disposal.	 The	 results	 of	 businesses	 disposed	 of,	 and	 of	 those	 classified	 as	 held	 for	 sale	 at	 the	 year	 end	 are	 disclosed	 as	 arising	 from	 discontinued	 operations	 where	 they	 meet	 the	 criteria	 to	 be	 treated	 as	 such.
All	 intra-group	 transactions,	 balances,	 income	 and	 expenses	 are	 eliminated	 on	 consolidation.	 Underlying measures
To	 assist	 with	 the	 understanding	 of	 earnings	 trends,	 the	 Group	 has	 included	 within	 its	 published	 statements	 trading	 profits	 and	 underlying	 earnings	 results.	 Trading	 profit	 and	 underlying	 earnings	 have	 been	 defined	 to	 exclude	 the	 impact	 of	 the	 amortisation	 of	 intangible	 assets	 recognised	 on	 acquisition,	 fair	 value	 adjustments	 to	 inventory	 on	 acquisition,	 the	 marking	 to	 market	 of	 currency	 instruments	 not	 realised	 in	 the	 period	 and	 impairments	 of	 goodwill.	 There	 has	 been	 no	 impairment	 to	 goodwill	 in	 the	 current	 or	 comparative	 periods.	 Trading	 profit	 and	 underlying	 earnings	 exclude	 portfolio	 restructuring	 costs,	 which	 comprise	 exceptional	 profits	 or	 losses	 arising	 on	 disposals	 actually	 completed	 during	 the	 period,	 as	 well	 as	 exceptional	 costs	 or	 profits	 associated	 	 with	 the	 restructuring	 of	 the	 Group’s	 business	 and	 property	 portfolio.	 Trading	 profit	 and	 underlying	 earnings	 also	 exclude	 direct	 costs	 associated	 with	 exceptional	 terminated	 acquisitions.
All	 underlying	 measures	 include	 the	 revenue	 and	 operational	 results	 of	 both	 continuing	 and	 discontinued	 businesses	 until	 the	 point	 of	 sale.
Revenue recognition
Revenue	 is	 measured	 at	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 right	 to	 consideration	 and	 is	 recognised	 when	 legal	 title	 and	 the	 risks	 	 and	 rewards	 of	 ownership	 have	 been	 passed	 to	 the	 customer.	 Revenue	 for	 services	 is	 recognised	 as	 the	 services	 are	 rendered.	 It	 excludes	 inter-company	 sales,	 value	 added	 tax	 and	 other	 sales	 taxes.	 In	 the	 case	 of	 contracts	 with	 a	 long	 duration,	 revenue	 is	 recognised	 based	 upon	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 work	 performed	 to	 date	 assessed	 with	 reference	 to	 contract	 milestones.
Pensions
The	 Group	 operates	 a	 number	 of	 defined	 benefit	 and	 defined	 contribution	 schemes.	 Accounting	 policies 45	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
For	 defined	 benefit	 schemes	 the	 amounts	 charged	 to	 operating	 profit	 are	 the	 current	 service	 costs.	 Gains	 and	 losses	 on	 settlements	 and	 curtailments	 arising	 on	 a	 business	 disposal	 are	 included	 in	 profit	 on	 disposal.	 Past	 service	 costs	 are	 recognised	 immediately	 in	 the	 income	 statement	 if	 the	 benefits	 have	 vested.	 If	 the	 benefits	 have	 not	 vested,	 the	 costs	 are	 recognised	 over	 the	 period	 until	 vesting	 occurs.	 	 The	 expected	 return	 on	 assets	 and	 interest	 cost	 are	 shown	 within	 finance	 income	 and	 expense.	 Actuarial	 gains	 and	 losses	 are	 recognised	 immediately	 in	 the	 statement	 of	 recognised	 income	 and	 expense.
	 Defined	 benefit	 schemes	 are	 funded,	 with	 the	 assets	 of	 the	 scheme	 held	 separately	 from	 those	 of	 the	 Group,	 in	 separate	 trustee	 administered	 funds.	 Pension	 scheme	 assets	 are	 measured	 at	 fair	 value	 and	 liabilities	 are	 measured	 on	 an	 actuarial	 basis	 using	 the	 projected	 unit	 method	 and	 discounted	 at	 a	 rate	 equivalent	 to	 the	 current	 rate	 of	 return	 on	 a	 high	 quality	 corporate	 bond	 of	 equivalent	 currency	 and	 term	 to	 the	 scheme	 liabilities.	 The	 actuarial	 valuations	 are	 obtained	 at	 least	 triennially	 and	 are	 updated	 at	 each	 balance	 sheet	 date.	 The	 resulting	 defined	 benefit	 asset	 or	 liability	 is	 presented	 separately	 on	 the	 face	 of	 the	 balance	 sheet.
For	 defined	 contribution	 schemes	 the	 amounts	 charged	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 in	 respect	 of	 pension	 costs	 and	 other	 post-
retirement	 benefits	 are	 the	 contributions	 payable	 in	 the	 year.	 Differences	 between	 contributions	 payable	 in	 the	 year	 and	 contributions	 actually	 paid	 are	 recorded	 as	 either	 accruals	 or	 prepayments	 in	 the	 balance	 sheet.
Taxation including deferred taxation
The	 tax	 expense	 relates	 to	 the	 sum	 of	 current	 tax	 and	 deferred	 tax.	 Current	 tax	 is	 based	 on	 taxable	 profit	 for	 the	 year,	 which	 differs	 from	 profit	 before	 taxation	 as	 reported	 in	 the	 income	 statement.	 Taxable	 profit	 excludes	 items	 of	 income	 and	 expense	 that	 are	 taxable	 or	 deductible	 in	 other	 years	 and	 also	 excludes	 items	 that	 are	 never	 taxable	 or	 deductible.	 The	 Group’s	 liability	 for	 current	 tax	 is	 calculated	 using	 rates	 that	 have	 been	 enacted	 or	 substantively	 enacted	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.	 Deferred	 tax	 is	 accounted	 for	 using	 the	 balance	 sheet	 liability	 method	 in	 respect	 of	 temporary	 differences	 arising	 between	 the	 tax	 bases	 of	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 and	 their	 carrying	 values	 in	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements.	 Temporary	 differences	 arise	 primarily	 from	 the	 recognition	 of	 the	 deficit	 on	 the	 Group’s	 defined	 benefit	 pension	 schemes,	 accelerated	 tax	 depreciation	 and	 acquisition	 accounting.	 Deferred	 tax	 liabilities	 are	 recognised	 for	 all	 taxable	 temporary	 differences	 and	 deferred	 tax	 assets	 are	 recognised	 to	 the	 extent	 that	 it	 is	 probable	 that	 taxable	 profits	 will	 be	 available	 against	 which	 deductible	 temporary	 differences	 can	 be	 utilised.	 The	 carrying	 amount	 of	 deferred	 tax	 assets	 is	 reviewed	 at	 each	 balance	 sheet	 date	 and	 reduced	 to	 the	 extent	 that	 it	 is	 no	 longer	 probable	 that	 sufficient	 taxable	 profits	 will	 be	 available	 to	 allow	 all	 or	 part	 of	 the	 assets	 to	 	 be	 recovered.	 Deferred	 tax	 is	 calculated	 at	 the	 tax	 rates	 that	 are	 expected	 	 to	 apply	 to	 the	 period	 when	 the	 asset	 is	 realised	 or	 the	 liability	 	 is	 settled.	 Tax	 is	 charged	 or	 credited	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 except	 when	 it	 relates	 to	 items	 charged	 or	 credited	 directly	 to	 equity,	 in	 which	 case	 the	 deferred	 tax	 is	 also	 dealt	 with	 in	 equity.	 Tax	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 are	 offset	 when	 there	 is	 a	 legally	 enforceable	 right	 to	 offset	 current	 tax	 assets	 against	 current	 tax	 liabilities	 and	 when	 the	 deferred	 income	 taxes	 relate	 to	 the	 same	 fiscal	 authority.
Dividends
Dividends	 are	 recognised	 as	 a	 liability	 in	 the	 period	 in	 which	 they	 are	 fully	 authorised.	 Share-based payments
For	 grants	 made	 under	 the	 Group’s	 equity	 settled	 share-based	 payment	 schemes,	 amounts	 which	 reflect	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 options	 awarded	 as	 at	 the	 time	 of	 grant	 are	 charged	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 over	 the	 relevant	 vesting	 periods.
The	 costs	 of	 awards	 made	 under	 cash	 settled	 share-	 based	 payment	 schemes	 are	 measured	 initially	 at	 the	 grant	 date	 and	 expensed	 over	 the	 vesting	 period.	 The	 liability	 is	 remeasured	 at	 each	 balance	 sheet	 date	 up	 to	 and	 including	 the	 settlement	 date	 with	 changes	 in	 fair	 value	 recognised	 through	 the	 income	 statement.
The	 valuation	 methodology	 for	 all	 schemes	 is	 based	 on	 the	 Black-Scholes	 model,	 modified	 where	 required	 to	 allow	 for	 	 the	 impact	 of	 market	 related	 performance	 criteria.
	 The	 Group	 has	 taken	 advantage	 of	 the	 transitional	 provisions	 of	 IFRS	 2,	 Share-based	 payment,	 in	 respect	 of	 equity	 settled	 awards	 and	 has	 applied	 IFRS	 2	 only	 to	 equity	 settled	 awards	 granted	 after	 7	 November	 2002.	 Intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill	 represents	 the	 excess	 of	 the	 cost	 of	 acquisition	 over	 the	 Group’s	 interest	 in	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 identifiable	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 of	 a	 business,	 subsidiary	 or	 joint	 venture	 at	 the	 date	 of	 acquisition.	 Goodwill	 arising	 on	 overseas	 acquisitions	 since	 the	 date	 of	 transition	 to	 IFRS	 is	 treated	 as	 a	 foreign	 currency	 asset	 	 and	 revalued	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.	 Foreign	 exchange	 differences	 arising	 are	 taken	 to	 the	 translation	 reserve	 	 and	 recycled	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 when	 the	 related	 subsidiary	 is	 sold.	 Goodwill	 arising	 on	 acquisitions	 of	 businesses,	 subsidiaries	 and	 joint	 ventures	 is	 capitalised	 and	 reviewed	 for	 impairment	 at	 least	 annually.	 Any	 impairment	 is	 recognised	 immediately	 in	 the	 income	 statement	 and	 cannot	 be	 subsequently	 reversed.
Goodwill	 arising	 on	 the	 purchase	 of	 minority	 interests	 is	 taken	 to	 reserves	 under	 the	 economic	 entity	 method.
On	 disposal	 of	 a	 subsidiary	 or	 joint	 venture,	 the	 attributable	 amount	 of	 goodwill	 is	 included	 in	 the	 determination	 of	 the	 profit	 or	 loss	 on	 disposal.	 Research and development
Research	 expenditure	 not	 chargeable	 to	 customers	 is	 	 written	 off	 as	 incurred.	 Development	 costs	 not	 chargeable	 	 to	 customers	 are	 written	 off	 as	 incurred	 until	 it	 can	 be	 46	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
demonstrated	 that	 the	 conditions	 for	 capitalisation	 as	 described	 in	 IAS	 38,	 Intangible	 assets,	 are	 met,	 at	 which	 	 point	 further	 costs	 are	 capitalised	 as	 intangible	 assets	 until	 	 the	 intangible	 asset	 is	 readily	 available	 for	 sale	 and	 is	 then	 amortised	 on	 a	 straight-line	 basis	 over	 the	 asset’s	 estimated	 useful	 life.	 Other intangible assets
Intangible	 assets	 other	 than	 goodwill	 which	 are	 acquired	 by	 the	 Group	 are	 stated	 at	 cost	 less	 accumulated	 amortisation	 and	 impairment	 losses.	 These	 include	 customer	 lists,	 technology	 and	 software,	 trademarks,	 licences	 and	 patents.	 The	 only	 internally	 generated	 intangible	 assets	 are	 development	 costs	 which	 are	 capitalised	 as	 described	 above,	 and	 internally	 developed	 software	 where	 asset	 recognition	 criteria	 are	 met.	 All	 other	 intangible	 assets	 are	 amortised	 over	 the	 asset’s	 estimated	 useful	 life	 on	 a	 straight-line	 basis	 as	 follows:
	 Customer 	 lists	 2	 to	 15	 years	 	 Technology 	 and	 software	 2 	 to	 10	 years
	 Development 	 costs	 2	 to	 10	 years
	 Other 	 intangible	 assets	 6 	 months	 to	 10	 years
Property, plant and equipment
Freehold	 land	 is	 not	 depreciated,	 but	 is	 reviewed	 for	 impairment	 at	 least	 annually.	 Freehold	 and	 leasehold	 buildings,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 are	 held	 at	 historic	 cost	 less	 accumulated	 depreciation	 and	 any	 recognised	 impairment	 losses.	 Carrying	 values	 are	 reviewed	 for	 impairment	 when	 events	 or	 changes	 in	 circumstances	 indicate	 that	 the	 carrying	 value	 may	 not	 be	 recoverable.	 An	 asset’s	 carrying	 amount	 is	 written	 down	 immediately	 to	 its	 recoverable	 amount	 if	 the	 asset’s	 carrying	 amount	 is	 greater	 than	 its	 estimated	 recoverable	 amount.
All	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 other	 than	 land	 is	 depreciated	 on	 a	 straight-line	 basis	 to	 the	 estimated	 residual	 values	 over	 the	 estimated	 useful	 lives.	 These	 lives	 are	 as	 follows:
	 	Freehold	 buildings	 (including	 	 investment	 properties)	 50 	 years
	 	Leasehold	 properties	 The 	 period	 of	 the	 lease
	 	Plant	 and	 equipment	 and	 	 other	 fixed	 assets	 3	 to	 15	 years
Estimated	 residual	 values	 and	 the	 estimated	 useful	 lives	 are	 reviewed	 annually	 and	 adjusted	 where	 necessary.	 Assets	 held	 under	 finance	 leases	 are	 depreciated	 over	 their	 expected	 useful	 lives	 on	 the	 same	 basis	 as	 owned	 assets	 or,	 where	 shorter,	 the	 term	 of	 the	 relevant	 lease.	 The	 gain	 or	 loss	 arising	 on	 the	 disposal	 or	 retirement	 of	 an	 asset	 is	 determined	 as	 the	 difference	 between	 the	 sales	 proceeds	 and	 the	 carrying	 amount	 of	 the	 asset	 and	 is	 recognised	 in	 the	 income	 statement.	 Investment properties
Investment	 properties,	 which	 are	 properties	 held	 to	 earn	 rentals	 and/or	 for	 capital	 appreciation,	 are	 stated	 at	 cost	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.	 They	 are	 depreciated	 on	 a	 straight-line	 basis	 to	 their	 estimated	 residual	 value	 over	 their	 estimated	 useful	 lives.	 Aircraft overhaul expenditure
Major	 overhaul	 expenditure	 on	 owned	 aircraft	 is	 capitalised	 when	 incurred	 and	 the	 resultant	 fixed	 asset	 depreciated	 	 over	 its	 useful	 economic	 life.	 Major	 overhaul	 costs	 that	 are	 contractually	 required	 on	 aircraft	 held	 under	 operating	 leases	 are	 provided	 for	 over	 the	 period	 between	 the	 scheduled	 maintenance	 events.	 Inventories
Inventories	 are	 stated	 at	 the	 lower	 of	 cost	 and	 net	 realisable	 value.	 Cost	 comprises	 direct	 materials	 and,	 where	 applicable,	 direct	 labour	 costs	 and	 those	 overheads	 that	 have	 been	 incurred	 in	 bringing	 the	 inventories	 to	 their	 present	 location	 and	 condition.	 Cost	 is	 calculated	 using	 the	 first-in,	 first-out	 method.	 Net	 realisable	 value	 represents	 the	 estimated	 selling	 price	 less	 all	 estimated	 costs	 of	 completion	 and	 costs	 to	 be	 incurred	 in	 marketing,	 selling	 and	 distribution.	 Payments	 received	 and	 receivable	 on	 account	 of	 work	 in	 progress	 are	 deducted	 from	 the	 cost	 of	 work	 carried	 out	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date	 to	 the	 extent	 of	 the	 valuation	 of	 the	 work	 done.	 Pre-contract and bid costs
All	 costs	 directly	 attributable	 to	 securing	 contracts	 incurred	 after	 the	 point	 that	 they	 become	 virtually	 certain,	 but	 before	 commencement	 of	 the	 contract,	 are	 recognised	 as	 an	 asset.	 Such	 costs	 are	 amortised	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 over	 the	 period	 for	 which	 this	 activity	 will	 continue	 to	 provide	 value.	 Financial instruments
Financial	 assets	 and	 financial	 liabilities	 are	 recognised	 on	 the	 Group’s	 balance	 sheet	 when	 the	 Group	 becomes	 a	 party	 to	 the	 contractual	 provisions	 of	 the	 instrument.	 Financial	 assets	 are	 recognised	 at	 trade	 date.	 	 Financial assets and liabilities
Financial	 assets	 are	 categorised	 on	 initial	 recognition	 as	 	 assets	 held	 at	 fair	 value	 through	 profit	 or	 loss,	 or	 loans	 and	 receivables	 dependant	 upon	 the	 purpose	 for	 which	 the	 assets	 were	 acquired	 and	 as	 follows:	 		 Assets	 held	 at	 fair	 value	 through	 profit	 or	 loss	 are	 those	 	 held	 for	 trading	 in	 the	 short-term	 and	 are	 classified	 as	 current	 assets.
		 Loans	 and	 receivables	 are	 non-derivative	 financial	 assets	 which	 are	 not	 quoted	 in	 an	 active	 market.	 These	 are	 classified	 as	 current	 or	 non-current	 assets	 dependant	 upon	 maturity	 and	 included	 within	 trade	 and	 other	 receivables.
None	 of	 the	 Group’s	 financial	 assets	 fall	 into	 the	 held	 to	 maturity	 or	 available	 for	 sale	 categories	 which	 are	 defined	 	 as	 follows:	 		 Held-to-maturity	 investments	 are	 non-derivative	 financial	 assets	 with	 fixed	 maturity	 dates	 which	 the	 Group	 intends	 	 to	 hold	 to	 maturity.
		 Available-for-sale	 financial	 assets	 are	 those	 non-derivative	 financial	 assets	 designated	 by	 management	 as	 available	 for	 sale	 and	 not	 falling	 into	 any	 of	 the	 above	 categories.	 Financial	 liabilities	 are	 categorised	 on	 initial	 recognition	 as	 liabilities	 held	 at	 fair	 value	 through	 profit	 or	 loss,	 or	 other	 liabilities	 held	 at	 cost.	 Liabilities	 held	 at	 fair	 value	 through	 	 Accounting	 policies	 continued 47	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
profit	 or	 loss	 are	 those	 held	 for	 trading	 in	 the	 short-term	 and	 are	 classified	 as	 current	 or	 non-current	 liabilities	 dependant	 upon	 the	 maturity	 date	 of	 the	 instruments.	 Derivatives	 are	 categorised	 as	 held	 for	 trading	 unless	 they	 are	 designated	 	 as	 hedges.	 When	 a	 financial	 asset	 or	 liability	 is	 recognised	 initially,	 it	 is	 measured	 at	 its	 fair	 value	 plus,	 in	 the	 case	 of	 a	 financial	 asset	 or	 financial	 liability	 not	 at	 fair	 value	 through	 profit	 or	 loss,	 transaction	 costs	 that	 are	 directly	 attributable	 to	 the	 acquisition	 or	 issue	 of	 the	 financial	 asset	 or	 financial	 liability.	 Financial	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 at	 fair	 value	 through	 profit	 or	 loss	 are	 subsequently	 carried	 at	 fair	 value.	 Loans	 and	 receivables	 are	 carried	 at	 cost,	 or	 amortised	 cost	 where	 applicable,	 using	 the	 effective	 interest	 method.	 Financial	 liabilities	 not	 at	 fair	 value	 through	 profit	 or	 loss	 are	 stated	 at	 cost.	 Trade receivables
Trade	 receivables	 do	 not	 carry	 any	 interest	 and	 are	 stated	 at	 their	 nominal	 value	 as	 reduced	 by	 appropriate	 allowances	 for	 estimated	 irrecoverable	 amounts.	 Allowances	 for	 irrecoverable	 amounts	 are	 made	 when	 there	 is	 evidence	 that	 the	 Group	 may	 not	 be	 able	 to	 collect	 the	 amount	 due.	 All	 trade	 receivables	 which	 are	 more	 than	 six	 months	 overdue	 are	 provided	 for	 based	 on	 estimated	 irrecoverable	 amounts	 determined	 by	 reference	 to	 past	 default	 experience.	 Amounts	 which	 are	 less	 than	 six	 months	 overdue	 are	 provided	 where	 recovery	 of	 the	 balance	 due	 is	 considered	 to	 be	 doubtful.	 The	 impairment	 recorded	 is	 the	 difference	 between	 the	 carrying	 value	 of	 the	 receivables	 and	 the	 estimated	 future	 cashflows.	 Any	 impairment	 required	 is	 recorded	 in	 the	 income	 statement	 in	 administrative	 expenses.	 The	 balance	 may	 be	 written	 off	 in	 full	 generally	 where	 receivables	 are	 in	 excess	 of	 12	 months	 old.	 At	 that	 time,	 any	 amounts	 previously	 provided	 for	 impairment	 are	 released.	 Trade payables
Trade	 payables	 do	 not	 carry	 any	 interest	 and	 are	 stated	 at	 their	 nominal	 value.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing	 bank	 loans	 and	 overdrafts	 are	 recorded	 at	 	 the	 amount	 of	 proceeds	 received,	 net	 of	 direct	 issue	 costs.	 Borrowing	 costs,	 net	 of	 amounts	 capitalised,	 including	 premiums	 payable	 on	 settlement	 or	 redemption	 and	 direct	 issue	 costs,	 are	 charged	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 and	 are	 added	 to	 the	 carrying	 amount	 of	 the	 instrument	 to	 the	 extent	 that	 they	 are	 not	 settled	 in	 the	 period	 in	 which	 they	 arise.	 Borrowing	 costs	 that	 are	 directly	 attributable	 to	 relevant	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 are	 capitalised	 as	 part	 of	 the	 cost	 of	 that	 asset.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 comprise	 cash	 balances	 and	 call	 deposits	 with	 an	 original	 maturity	 of	 three	 months	 or	 less.	 Bank	 overdrafts	 that	 are	 repayable	 on	 demand	 and	 form	 an	 integral	 part	 of	 the	 Group’s	 cash	 management	 are	 included	 	 as	 a	 component	 of	 cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 for	 the	 purpose	 of	 the	 consolidated	 cash	 flow	 statement.	 Leasing
Leases	 are	 classified	 as	 finance	 leases	 whenever	 the	 terms	 	 of	 the	 lease	 transfer	 substantially	 all	 the	 risks	 and	 rewards	 of	 ownership	 to	 the	 lessee.	 Leases	 include	 hire	 purchase	 contracts	 which	 have	 characteristics	 similar	 to	 operating	 or	 finance	 leases.	 All	 other	 leases	 are	 classified	 as	 operating	 leases.	 Assets	 held	 under	 finance	 leases	 are	 recognised	 as	 assets	 	 of	 the	 Group	 at	 their	 fair	 value	 or,	 if	 lower,	 at	 the	 present	 	 value	 of	 the	 minimum	 lease	 payments,	 each	 determined	 at	 the	 inception	 of	 the	 lease.	 The	 corresponding	 liability	 to	 the	 lessor	 is	 included	 in	 the	 balance	 sheet	 as	 a	 finance	 lease	 obligation.	 Lease	 payments	 are	 apportioned	 between	 finance	 charges	 and	 reduction	 of	 the	 lease	 obligation	 so	 as	 to	 achieve	 a	 constant	 rate	 of	 interest	 on	 the	 remaining	 balance	 of	 the	 liability.	 Finance	 charges	 are	 charged	 directly	 to	 the	 income	 statement.
Rentals	 payable	 under	 operating	 leases	 are	 charged	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 on	 a	 straight-line	 basis	 over	 the	 term	 of	 	 the	 relevant	 lease.
Benefits	 received	 and	 receivable	 as	 an	 incentive	 to	 enter	 into	 an	 operating	 lease	 are	 also	 spread	 on	 a	 straight-line	 basis	 over	 the	 lease	 term.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
Derivatives	 are	 initially	 recognised	 at	 fair	 value	 on	 the	 date	 	 a	 derivative	 contract	 is	 entered	 into	 and	 are	 subsequently	 	 re-measured	 at	 their	 fair	 value.	 The	 method	 of	 recognising	 	 the	 resulting	 gain	 or	 loss	 depends	 on	 whether	 the	 derivative	 	 is	 designated	 as	 a	 hedging	 instrument,	 and	 if	 so,	 the	 nature	 	 of	 the	 item	 being	 hedged.
The	 Group’s	 activities	 expose	 it	 primarily	 to	 the	 financial	 risks	 of	 changes	 in	 foreign	 currency	 exchange	 rates	 and	 interest	 rates.	 The	 Group	 uses	 foreign	 exchange	 forward	 contracts,	 interest	 rate	 swap	 contracts	 and	 net	 investment	 hedges	 to	 reduce	 these	 exposures.	 The	 Group	 does	 not	 use	 derivative	 financial	 instruments	 for	 speculative	 purposes.
The	 Group	 documents	 at	 the	 inception	 of	 the	 transaction	 	 the	 relationship	 between	 hedging	 instruments	 and	 hedged	 items,	 as	 well	 as	 its	 risk	 management	 objectives	 and	 strategy	 for	 undertaking	 various	 hedge	 transactions.	 The	 Group	 also	 documents	 its	 assessment,	 both	 at	 hedge	 inception	 and	 on	 	 an	 ongoing	 basis,	 of	 whether	 the	 derivatives	 used	 in	 hedging	 transactions	 are	 highly	 effective	 in	 offsetting	 changes	 in	 fair	 values	 or	 cash	 flows	 of	 hedged	 items.
Currency	 translation	 derivatives	 entered	 into	 to	 mitigate	 foreign	 exchange	 impacts	 of	 trading	 in	 non-functional	 currencies	 are	 not	 accounted	 for	 using	 hedge	 accounting	 and	 movements	 in	 fair	 values	 are	 shown	 separately	 in	 the	 income	 statement	 as	 part	 of	 operating	 profit.	 Currency	 translation	 derivatives	 entered	 into	 to	 mitigate	 foreign	 exchange	 impacts	 arising	 on	 the	 acquisition	 of	 fixed	 assets	 are	 accounted	 for	 as	 cash	 flow	 hedges.	 Fair value hedges
Changes	 in	 fair	 values	 of	 derivatives	 that	 are	 designated	 	 and	 qualify	 as	 fair	 value	 hedges	 are	 recorded	 in	 the	 income	 statement,	 together	 with	 any	 changes	 in	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 hedged	 asset	 or	 liability	 that	 are	 attributable	 to	 the	 hedged	 risk.	 The	 gains	 or	 losses	 relating	 to	 interest	 rate	 swaps	 hedging	 fixed	 rate	 borrowings	 are	 recognised	 in	 finance	 income	 and	 expense	 in	 the	 income	 statement.	 48	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Cash flow hedges
The	 effective	 portion	 of	 changes	 in	 fair	 values	 of	 derivatives	 that	 are	 designated	 and	 qualify	 as	 cash	 flow	 hedges	 are	 recognised	 in	 equity.	 The	 gain	 or	 loss	 relating	 to	 the	 ineffective	 portion	 is	 recognised	 immediately	 in	 the	 income	 statement.	 Amounts	 accumulated	 in	 equity	 are	 recycled	 to	 finance	 income	 and	 expense	 in	 the	 income	 statement	 in	 the	 periods	 when	 the	 hedged	 item	 affects	 profit	 or	 loss.
When	 a	 hedging	 instrument	 expires	 or	 is	 sold,	 or	 when	 a	 hedge	 no	 longer	 meets	 the	 criteria	 for	 hedge	 accounting,	 any	 cumulative	 gain	 or	 loss	 existing	 in	 equity	 at	 that	 time	 remains	 in	 equity	 and	 is	 recognised	 when	 the	 forecast	 transaction	 is	 ultimately	 recognised	 in	 the	 income	 statement.	 If	 a	 hedged	 transaction	 is	 no	 longer	 expected	 to	 occur,	 the	 net	 cumulative	 gain	 or	 loss	 recognised	 in	 equity	 is	 immediately	 transferred	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 for	 the	 period.
Net investment hedges
Hedges	 of	 net	 investments	 in	 foreign	 operations	 are	 accounted	 for	 similarly	 to	 cash	 flow	 hedges.	 Any	 gain	 or	 loss	 on	 the	 hedging	 instrument	 relating	 to	 the	 effective	 portion	 of	 the	 hedge	 is	 recognised	 in	 equity;	 the	 gain	 or	 loss	 relating	 to	 the	 ineffective	 portion	 is	 recognised	 immediately	 in	 the	 income	 statement.
Gains	 or	 losses	 accumulated	 in	 equity	 are	 included	 in	 the	 income	 statement	 when	 the	 foreign	 operation	 is	 disposed	 of.
The	 fair	 value	 of	 a	 hedging	 derivative	 is	 classified	 as	 a	 current	 asset	 or	 liability	 except	 when	 the	 remaining	 maturity	 of	 the	 hedged	 item	 is	 more	 than	 12	 months.	 Foreign currencies
The	 functional	 currency	 and	 presentation	 currency	 of	 the	 parent	 company	 is	 sterling.	 Most	 Group	 companies	 use	 their	 local	 currency	 as	 their	 functional	 currency.	 Local	 transactions	 in	 currencies	 other	 than	 the	 functional	 currency	 are	 translated	 at	 the	 exchange	 rate	 ruling	 at	 the	 date	 of	 the	 transaction.	 Monetary	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 denoted	 in	 non-functional	 currencies	 are	 retranslated	 at	 the	 exchange	 rate	 ruling	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date	 and	 any	 exchange	 differences	 arising	 are	 taken	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 except	 when	 deferred	 in	 equity	 as	 net	 investment	 hedges.	 In	 order	 to	 manage	 its	 exposure	 to	 certain	 foreign	 exchange	 risks	 the	 Group	 enters	 into	 forward	 contracts	 which	 are	 accounted	 for	 as	 derivative	 financial	 instruments.
For	 consolidation	 purposes	 the	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 of	 overseas	 subsidiary	 undertakings	 and	 joint	 ventures	 are	 translated	 at	 the	 closing	 exchange	 rates.	 Income	 statements	 of	 such	 undertakings	 are	 consolidated	 at	 the	 average	 rates	 of	 exchange	 as	 an	 approximation	 for	 actual	 rates	 during	 the	 year.	 Exchange	 differences	 arising	 on	 these	 translations	 are	 accounted	 for	 in	 the	 translation	 reserve.
Provisions
A	 provision	 is	 required	 when	 the	 Group	 has	 a	 present	 legal	 	 or	 constructive	 obligation	 as	 a	 result	 of	 a	 past	 event	 and	 it	 is	 probable	 that	 settlement	 will	 be	 required	 of	 an	 amount	 that	 can	 be	 reliably	 estimated.
Provisions	 for	 warranty	 costs	 are	 recognised	 at	 the	 date	 of	 sale	 of	 the	 relevant	 products,	 at	 the	 Directors’	 best	 estimate	 	 of	 the	 expenditure	 required	 to	 settle	 the	 Group’s	 liability.	 Provisions	 for	 onerous	 contracts	 are	 recognised	 when	 the	 expected	 benefits	 to	 be	 derived	 by	 the	 Group	 from	 a	 contract	 are	 lower	 than	 the	 unavoidable	 cost	 of	 meeting	 its	 obligations	 under	 the	 contract.	 Provisions	 for	 contingent	 consideration	 are	 recognised	 when	 	 it	 is	 considered	 probable	 that	 the	 conditions	 attaching	 to	 potential	 payment	 will	 be	 met.	 Provisions	 for	 major	 repair	 and	 maintenance	 costs	 on	 aircraft	 held	 under	 operating	 leases	 are	 provided	 over	 the	 period	 	 to	 the	 next	 inspection	 so	 as	 to	 match	 the	 costs	 with	 	 benefits	 received.	 Long-term	 liabilities	 and	 provisions	 are	 discounted	 at	 an	 appropriate	 risk-free	 rate	 when	 the	 impact	 is	 material.
Impairment losses
The	 carrying	 amounts	 of	 the	 Group’s	 assets	 are	 reviewed	 at	 least	 annually	 to	 determine	 whether	 there	 is	 any	 indication	 	 of	 impairment.	 If	 any	 such	 indication	 exists,	 the	 asset’s	 recoverable	 amount	 is	 estimated.	 The	 recoverable	 amount	 is	 the	 higher	 of	 fair	 value	 less	 costs	 to	 sell	 and	 value	 in	 use.	 In	 assessing	 value	 in	 use,	 the	 estimated	 future	 cash	 flows	 are	 discounted	 to	 their	 present	 value	 using	 a	 pre-tax	 discount	 rate	 that	 reflects	 current	 market	 assessments	 of	 the	 time	 value	 of	 money	 and	 the	 risks	 specific	 to	 the	 asset	 for	 which	 the	 estimates	 of	 future	 cash	 flows	 have	 not	 been	 adjusted.
An	 impairment	 loss	 is	 recognised	 where	 the	 carrying	 amount	 of	 an	 asset	 is	 less	 than	 its	 recoverable	 amount.	 An	 intangible	 asset	 with	 an	 indefinite	 useful	 life	 is	 tested	 for	 impairment	 annually	 and	 whenever	 there	 is	 an	 indication	 that	 the	 asset	 may	 be	 impaired.	 Any	 impairment	 losses	 are	 recognised	 in	 	 the	 income	 statement.	 An	 impairment	 loss	 (other	 than	 arising	 on	 goodwill)	 is	 reversed	 only	 to	 the	 extent	 that	 the	 asset’s	 carrying	 amount	 does	 not	 exceed	 the	 carrying	 amount	 that	 would	 have	 been	 determined,	 net	 of	 depreciation	 or	 amortisation,	 if	 no	 impairment	 loss	 had	 been	 recognised.	 Any	 reversal	 is	 recognised	 in	 the	 income	 statement.
Share capital
Ordinary	 share	 capital	 is	 classified	 as	 equity.	 Financial	 liabilities	 and	 equity	 instruments	 are	 classified	 according	 	 to	 the	 substance	 of	 the	 contractual	 arrangements	 entered	 into.	 An	 equity	 instrument	 is	 any	 contract	 that	 evidences	 a	 residual	 interest	 in	 the	 assets	 of	 the	 Group	 after	 deducting	 all	 of	 its	 liabilities.	 Preference	 share	 capital	 is	 classified	 as	 a	 liability	 if	 it	 is	 redeemable	 on	 a	 specific	 date	 or	 at	 the	 option	 of	 the	 preference	 shareholders	 or	 if	 dividend	 payments	 are	 not	 discretionary.	 Dividends	 on	 preference	 share	 capital	 classified	 as	 liabilities	 	 are	 recognised	 in	 the	 income	 statement	 as	 finance	 expense.
Accounting	 policies	 continued 49	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Segment accounting policies
For	 reporting	 purposes	 the	 results	 of	 the	 Group	 are	 allocated	 between	 operating	 divisions	 and	 other	 activities.	 The	 divisions	 operate	 in	 specific	 market	 areas	 and	 are	 as	 described	 in	 	 note	 1.	 The	 Group	 accounting	 policies	 as	 described	 above	 are	 applied	 consistently	 across	 all	 divisions	 and	 activities.	 Trading	 between	 Group	 companies	 is	 contracted	 and	 priced	 at	 arm’s	 length	 commercial	 terms.	 Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Estimates	 and	 judgements	 are	 continually	 evaluated	 and	 are	 based	 on	 historical	 experience	 and	 other	 factors,	 including	 expectations	 of	 future	 events	 that	 are	 believed	 to	 be	 reasonable	 under	 the	 circumstances.	 Management judgement and estimation uncertainty
In	 the	 process	 of	 applying	 the	 Group’s	 accounting	 policies,	 management	 has	 made	 a	 number	 of	 judgements,	 none	 of	 which	 are	 considered	 to	 have	 a	 significant	 effect	 on	 the	 amounts	 recognised	 in	 the	 financial	 statements.
Estimates	 and	 assumptions	 concerning	 the	 future	 are	 also	 made	 by	 the	 Group.	 The	 resulting	 accounting	 estimates	 will,	 by	 definition,	 seldom	 equal	 the	 related	 actual	 results.	 The	 key	 assumptions	 concerning	 the	 future	 and	 other	 key	 sources	 of	 estimation	 uncertainty	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date	 that	 have	 a	 significant	 risk	 of	 causing	 a	 material	 adjustment	 to	 the	 carrying	 amounts	 of	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 in	 the	 next	 financial	 year	 are	 as	 follows:
Impairment of goodwill
The	 Group	 determines	 whether	 goodwill	 is	 impaired	 at	 least	 on	 an	 annual	 basis.	 This	 requires	 estimation	 of	 the	 value	 in	 use	 of	 the	 cash	 generating	 units	 to	 which	 the	 goodwill	 is	 allocated.	 Estimating	 the	 value	 in	 use	 requires	 the	 Group	 to	 make	 an	 estimate	 of	 the	 expected	 future	 cash	 flows	 from	 the	 cash	 generating	 units	 and	 also	 to	 choose	 a	 suitable	 discount	 rate	 in	 order	 to	 calculate	 the	 present	 value	 of	 those	 cash	 flows.	 The	 carrying	 amount	 of	 goodwill	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 was	 £381.8m	 (2006:	 £381.8m),	 further	 details	 are	 given	 in	 note	 14.
Taxation
The	 Group	 is	 subject	 to	 taxes	 in	 numerous	 jurisdictions.	 Significant	 judgement	 is	 required	 in	 determining	 the	 worldwide	 provision	 for	 tax.	 There	 are	 many	 transactions	 and	 calculations	 for	 which	 the	 ultimate	 tax	 determination	 is	 uncertain	 during	 the	 ordinary	 course	 of	 business.	 The	 Group	 recognises	 liabilities	 for	 anticipated	 tax	 audit	 issues	 based	 on	 estimates	 of	 whether	 additional	 taxes	 will	 be	 due.	 Where	 the	 final	 tax	 outcome	 of	 these	 matters	 is	 different	 from	 the	 amounts	 that	 were	 initially	 recorded,	 such	 differences	 will	 impact	 the	 current	 tax	 provision,	 deferred	 tax	 provisions	 and	 income	 statement	 in	 the	 period	 in	 which	 such	 determination	 is	 made.
Retirement benefits
The	 Group	 financial	 statements	 include	 costs	 and	 liabilities	 	 in	 relation	 to	 retirement	 benefit	 obligations.	 A	 number	 of	 assumptions	 are	 made	 in	 assessing	 the	 costs	 and	 present	 value	 of	 the	 pension	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 which	 include	 the	 long-term	 rate	 of	 increase	 of	 salary	 costs,	 discount	 rate,	 inflation,	 the	 expected	 return	 on	 plan	 assets	 and	 mortality	 rates.	 The	 Group	 uses	 published	 indices	 and	 independent	 actuarial	 advice	 to	 select	 the	 values	 of	 critical	 assumptions,	 which	 are	 disclosed	 in	 note	 10.	 Accounting standards not yet effective
Certain	 new	 standards,	 amendments	 to	 and	 interpretations	 	 of	 existing	 standards	 have	 been	 published	 that	 are	 mandatory	 for	 the	 Group’s	 accounting	 periods	 beginning	 on	 or	 after	 	 1	 January	 2008	 or	 later	 periods	 but	 which	 the	 Group	 has	 	 not	 adopted	 early,	 are	 as	 follows:
		 IFRS	 8,	 Operating	 Segments,	 is	 applicable	 from	 1	 January	 2009	 and	 is	 not	 expected	 to	 have	 a	 significant	 impact	 on	 	 the	 Group’s	 reporting	 of	 segmental	 information.
		 Revisions	 to	 IFRS	 3,	 Business	 Combinations	 and	 IAS	 27,	 Consolidated	 and	 Separate	 Financial	 Statements	 issued	 in	 January	 2008	 are	 applicable	 from	 1	 January	 2010.	 Management	 are	 currently	 assessing	 the	 impact	 of	 these	 revisions	 on	 the	 reporting	 of	 the	 Group’s	 future	 operations.	 		 The	 January	 2008	 amendment	 to	 IFRS	 2,	 Share-based	 Payment	 is	 applicable	 from	 1	 January	 2009.	 The	 amendment	 is	 likely	 to	 impact	 the	 timing	 of	 charges	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 in	 respect	 of	 awards	 made	 to	 employees	 under	 the	 Group’s	 ShareSave	 scheme.	 		 Amendments	 to	 IAS	 32,	 Financial	 Instruments:	 Presentation	 and	 IAS	 1,	 Presentation	 of	 Financial	 Statements	 issued	 in	 January	 2008	 are	 applicable	 from	 1	 January	 2009.	 Management	 are	 currently	 assessing	 the	 impact	 of	 these	 revisions	 on	 the	 reporting	 of	 the	 Group’s	 operations.	 		 IFRIC	 11,	 IFRS	 2	 Share-based	 payment	 –	 Group	 and	 Treasury	 Share	 Transactions	 is	 applicable	 from	 1	 January	 2008	 and	 does	 not	 have	 an	 impact	 on	 the	 reporting	 of	 the	 Group’s	 operations.
		 IFRIC	 12,	 Service	 Concession	 Arrangements,	 is	 applicable	 from	 1	 January	 2008.	 There	 is	 no	 impact	 of	 IFRIC	 12	 on	 the	 reporting	 of	 the	 Group’s	 operations.
		 IFRIC	 13,	 Customer	 Loyalty	 Programmes	 is	 not	 applicable	 to	 the	 Cobham	 Group.	 		 IFRIC	 14,	 The	 Limit	 on	 a	 Defined	 Benefit	 Asset,	 Minimum	 Funding	 Requirements	 and	 their	 Interaction	 is	 applicable	 from	 1	 January	 2008.	 Management	 are	 currently	 assessing	 the	 impact	 of	 these	 revisions	 on	 the	 reporting	 of	 the	 Group’s	 operations. 50	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
£m	 	 	 	 	 Note	 2007	 2006
Continuing operations	 	 	 	 Revenue	 	 	 	 	 1,2	 1,061.1	 1,012.1
Cost	 of	 sales	 	 	 	 	 	 (717.3)	 (679.2)
Gross profit	 	 	 	 	 	 343.8	 332.9
Selling	 and	 distribution	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 (61.3)	 (57.1)
Administrative	 expenses	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (116.8) 	 (102.6)
Share	 of	 post-tax	 results	 of	 joint	 ventures	 	 	 	 	 	 5.8	 4.7
Unrealised	 (loss)/gain	 on	 revaluation	 of	 currency	 instruments	 	 	 26 	 (5.7) 	 10.8
Operating profit	 	 	 	 	 1,2	 165.8	 188.7
Finance	 income	 	 	 	 	 3	 49.0	 47.2
Finance	 expense	 	 	 	 	 3	 (41.3)	 (50.7)
Profit on continuing operations before taxation	 	 	 	 	 173.5	 185.2
Tax	 on	 continuing	 operations	 	 	 	 	 4	 (47.3)	 (50.7)
Profit on continuing operations after taxation 	 	 	 	 	 126.2	 134.5
Discontinued operations
Profit	 after	 taxation	 from	 discontinued	 operations	 	 	 	 33	 5.8	 13.8
Profit after taxation for the year	 	 	 	 	 	 132.0	 148.3
Profit	 attributable	 to	 equity	 shareholders	 	 	 	 	 	 131.7	 148.1
Profit	 attributable	 to	 minority	 interests	 	 	 	 	 	 0.3	 0.2
Profit after taxation for the year 	 	 	 	 	 132.0	 148.3
Earnings per ordinary share	 	 	 	 	 6
 – Basic	 	 	 	 	 	 11.61p 	 13.13p
 – Diluted	 	 	 	 	 	 11.55p	 13.00p
Earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations	 	 	 6	 	 – Basic	 	 	 	 	 	 11.10p	 11.90p
 – Diluted	 	 	 	 	 	 11.04p	 11.79p
Trading	 profit	 is	 calculated	 as	 follows:
£m	 	 	 	 	 Note	 2007	 2006
Operating	 profit	 from	 continuing	 operations	 	 	 	 	 1	 165.8	 188.7
Adjusted	 to	 exclude:	 	 	 	 Loss/(gain)	 on	 portfolio	 restructuring	 	 	 	 	 8	 9.5	 (1.5)
Unrealised	 loss/(gain)	 on	 revaluation	 of	 currency	 instruments	 	 	 26	 5.7	 (10.8)
Costs	 of	 terminated	 acquisition	 	 	 	 	 7	 3.9	 –
Amortisation	 of	 intangible	 assets	 arising	 on	 acquisition	 including	 fair	 value	 adjustment	 	 7	 13.9	 9.1
Trading	 profit	 from	 continuing	 operations	 	 	 	 	 	 198.8	 185.5
Trading	 profit	 from	 discontinued	 operations	 	 	 	 	 33	 –	 0.8
Trading	 profit	 	 	 	 	 7	 198.8	 186.3
Consolidated	 income	 statement
For	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2007 51	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
£m	 	 	 	 	 Note	 2007	 2006
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible	 assets	 	 	 	 	 13	 476.1	 482.6
Property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 	 	 	 	 15 	 203.8 	 187.6
Investment	 properties	 	 	 	 	 16 	 7.2 	 6.4
Investments	 in	 joint	 ventures	 	 	 	 	 	 17	 18.8	 15.7
Trade	 and	 other	 receivables	 	 	 	 	 19	 10.7	 9.2
Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 	 	 	 	 26	 7.0	 8.6
Deferred	 taxation	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 23 	 8.3 	 6.9
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 731.9	 717.0
Current assets
Inventories	 	 	 	 	 18	 170.1	 160.2
Trade	 and	 other	 receivables	 	 	 	 	 19	 236.6	 182.6
Corporation	 tax	 	 	 	 	 	 2.8	 3.2
Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 	 	 	 	 26	 4.9	 7.0
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 	 	 	 	 20	 444.5	 364.3
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 858.9	 717.3
Liabilities
Current liabilities	 	 	 	 Borrowings	 	 	 	 	 24	 (243.1)	 (231.2)
Trade	 and	 other	 payables	 	 	 	 	 21	 (220.6)	 (182.6)
Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 	 	 	 	 26	 (2.2)	 (1.8)
Corporation	 tax	 	 	 	 	 	 (65.3)	 (45.1)
Provisions	 	 	 	 	 22	 (29.5) 	 (38.0)
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (560.7)	 (498.7)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings	 	 	 	 	 	 24	 (123.5)	 (132.2)
Trade	 and	 other	 payables	 	 	 	 	 21	 (10.6)	 (7.8)
Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 	 	 	 	 26	 (1.9)	 (2.5)
Deferred	 taxation	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 23	 (22.5)	 (25.6)
Provisions	 	 	 	 	 	 22 	 (30.3) 	 (22.9)
Retirement	 benefit	 obligations	 	 	 	 	 10	 (37.2)	 (29.6)
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (226.0)	 (220.6)
Net assets	 	 	 	 	 	 804.1	 715.0
Capital and reserves	 	 	 	 Called	 up	 share	 capital	 	 	 	 	 29	 28.4	 28.3
Share	 premium	 account	 	 	 	 	 30	 98.8	 94.2
Translation	 reserve	 	 	 	 	 30	 1.4	 (8.9)
Other	 reserves	 	 	 	 	 30	 17.9	 16.0
Retained	 earnings	 	 	 	 	 30	 657.2	 585.3
Total shareholders’ equity	 	 	 	 	 	 803.7	 714.9
Minority	 interest	 in	 equity	 	 	 	 	 	 0.4	 0.1
Total equity	 	 	 	 	 	 804.1	 715.0
Net	 cash	 	 	 	 	 12	 77.9	 0.9
Approved	 by	 a	 duly	 appointed	 and	 authorised	 committee	 of	 the	 Board	 on	 14	 March	 2008	 and	 signed	 on	 its	 behalf	 by:
Gordon Page
Warren Tucker
Directors
Consolidated	 balance	 sheet
As	 at	 31	 December	 2007 52	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
£m	 	 	 	 	 Note	 2007	 2006
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash	 generated	 from	 operations	 	 	 	 	 12	 199.2	 192.4
Corporation	 taxes	 paid	 	 	 	 	 	 (23.3)	 (46.2)
Interest	 paid	 	 	 	 	 	 (16.5)	 (27.6)
Interest	 received	 	 	 	 	 	 17.6 	 20.3
Net cash from operating activities	 	 	 	 	 	 177.0	 138.9
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends	 received	 from	 joint	 ventures	 	 	 	 	 37	 3.2	 4.3
Proceeds	 on	 disposal	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 	 	 	 	 25.5	 15.2
Purchase	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 	 	 	 	 	 (67.4)	 (52.9)
Purchase	 of	 intangible	 assets	 	 	 	 	 13 	 (0.5) 	 (1.4)
Capitalised	 expenditure	 on	 intangible	 assets	 	 	 	 	 13	 (0.2)	 (0.3)
Acquisition	 of	 subsidiaries	 net	 of	 cash	 acquired	 	 	 	 32	 (11.2)	 (12.2)
Acquisition	 of	 minority	 interests	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (4.2)
Payment	 of	 deferred	 and	 contingent	 consideration	 	 	 	 	 (3.1)	 (7.3)
Disposal	 of	 undertakings	 	 	 	 	 33	 (0.3)	 83.5
Net	 contingent	 consideration	 received	 	 	 	 	 33	 5.4	 2.9
Restructuring	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 (3.7) 	 –
Special	 pension	 contributions	 relating	 to	 disposals	 in	 prior	 years	 	 	 10	 (5.3)	 (11.5)
Costs	 of	 terminated	 acquisition	 	 	 	 	 	 (3.2)	 –
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities	 	 	 	 	 (60.8) 	 16.1
Cash flows from financing activities
Issue	 of	 share	 capital	 	 	 	 	 	 4.7 	 6.9
Dividends	 paid	 	 	 	 	 5	 (43.8) 	 (39.7)
New	 borrowings	 	 	 	 	 	 89.3	 78.6
Repayment	 of	 borrowings	 	 	 	 	 	 (96.7)	 (81.9)
Repayment	 of	 obligations	 under	 finance	 leases	 	 	 	 	 (0.3)	 (0.2)
Net cash used in financing activities 	 	 	 	 	 (46.8) 	 (36.3)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 	 	 	 	 	 69.4	 118.7
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 at	 start	 of	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 360.4	 246.6
Exchange	 movements	 	 	 	 	 	 2.2 	 (4.9)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year	 	 	 	 	 20	 432.0	 360.4
A	 reconciliation	 of	 cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 to	 the	 balance	 sheet	 is	 detailed	 in	 note	 20.	 Consolidated	 cash	 flow	 statement
For	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2007 53	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
£m	 	 	 	 	 Note	 2007	 2006
Profit after taxation for the year	 	 	 	 	 	 132.0 	 148.3
Net	 translation	 differences	 on	 investments	 in	 overseas	 subsidiaries	 	 	 	 10.3 	 (10.8)
Actuarial	 (loss)/gain	 on	 pensions	 	 	 	 	 	 10	 (23.7)	 32.8
Actuarial	 loss	 on	 other	 retirement	 obligations	 	 	 	 	 10	 –	 (0.5)
Movement	 on	 cash	 flow	 hedges	 	 	 	 	 26	 (2.1)	 0.4
Deferred	 tax	 relating	 to	 items	 charged	 directly	 to	 retained	 earnings	 	 	 	 7.1	 (9.7)
Deferred	 tax	 credit	 relating	 to	 share-based	 payments	 	 	 	 30	 0.2	 1.3
Net (expense)/income recognised directly in equity 	 	 	 	 (8.2)	 13.5
Total recognised income for the year	 	 	 	 	 	 123.8	 161.8
Attributable	 to:
Equity	 holders	 of	 the	 parent	 	 	 	 	 	 123.5	 161.6
Minority	 interest	 	 	 	 	 	 0.3	 0.2
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 123.8	 161.8
Consolidated	 statement	 of	 recognised	 income	 and	 expense	 For	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2007 54	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
1. Business and geographical segments
Business segments
During	 the	 year,	 the	 Group	 reviewed	 the	 organisation	 of	 its	 businesses	 and	 having	 considered	 the	 respective	 risks	 and	 	 rewards,	 determined	 that	 in	 order	 to	 present	 more	 reliable	 and	 relevant	 information	 regarding	 the	 segmentation	 of	 its	 results,	 	 a	 consolidation	 based	 on	 four	 operating	 divisions	 was	 more	 appropriate	 than	 that	 based	 on	 the	 six	 divisions	 previously	 presented.	 The	 new	 divisions	 are	 the	 basis	 on	 which	 primary	 segmental	 information	 is	 reported.	 The	 principal	 activities	 of	 the	 Group’s	 operating	 divisions	 are:
Cobham	 Avionics	 &	 Surveillance Providing	 a	 suite	 of	 end-to-end	 avionics	 products,	 law	 enforcement	 and	 national	 security	 solutions,	 and	 satellite	 communication	 equipment	 for	 land,	 sea	 and	 air	 applications.
Cobham	 Defence	 Electronic	 Systems Critical	 technology	 for	 network	 centric	 operations,	 moving	 information	 around	 the	 digital	 battlefield,	 with	 customised	 and	 off-the-shelf	 solutions	 for	 people	 and	 systems	 to	 communicate	 on	 land,	 sea	 and	 air.
Cobham	 Mission	 Systems Providing	 safety	 and	 survival	 systems	 for	 extreme	 environments,	 nose-to-tail	 refuelling	 systems	 and	 wing-tip	 to	 wing-tip	 mission	 systems	 for	 fast	 jets,	 transport	 aircraft	 and	 rotor	 craft.
Cobham	 Aviation	 Services Delivering	 outsourced	 aviation	 services	 for	 military	 and	 civil	 customers	 worldwide	 through	 military	 training,	 special	 mission	 flight	 operations,	 outsourced	 commercial	 aviation	 and	 aircraft	 engineering.
‘Other	 Activities’	 include	 head	 office	 (net	 of	 recoveries),	 the	 central	 project	 costs	 relating	 to	 the	 Future	 Strategic	 Tanker	 Aircraft	 project	 and	 the	 pre-disposal	 results	 of	 the	 composites	 and	 countermeasures	 operations	 disposed	 of	 during	 2006.	 Details	 for	 these	 primary	 segments	 are	 shown	 below.	 As	 required	 by	 IAS	 8,	 Accounting	 Policies,	 Changes	 in	 Accounting	 Estimates	 and	 Errors,	 comparatives	 have	 been	 restated	 following	 the	 divisional	 reorganisation.	 	 	 	 Defence	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Avionics	 &	 Electronic	 Mission	 Aviation	 Other	 	 £m	 	 Surveillance	 Systems	 Systems	 Services	 Activities	 Total
Revenue
Year to 31 December 2007
Revenue	 	 326.9	 299.9	 262.8	 192.5	 (1.1) 	 Inter-segmental	 revenue	 	 (12.7)	 (7.8)	 (1.3)	 –	 1.9 	 Total	 third	 party	 revenue	 	 314.2	 292.1	 261.5	 192.5	 0.8	 1,061.1
Year to 31 December 2006
Revenue	 	 281.0	 300.7	 253.1	 188.4	 7.1	 Inter-segmental	 revenue	 	 (12.7)	 (6.5)	 (1.4)	 (0.1)	 2.5	 Third	 party	 revenue	 –	 continuing	 operations	 	 268.3	 294.2	 251.7	 188.3	 9.6	 1,012.1
Third	 party	 revenue	 –	 discontinued	 operations	 	 –	 –	 –	 –	 3.6	 3.6
Total third party revenue	 	 268.3	 294.2	 251.7	 188.3	 13.2	 1,015.7
Result
Year to 31 December 2007
Result	 before	 joint	 ventures	 	 	 47.0	 67.2	 53.3	 15.6	 (23.1)	 160.0
Share	 of	 post-tax	 results	 of	 joint	 ventures	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 5.8	 –	 5.8
Operating profit from continuing operations	 47.0	 67.2	 53.3	 21.4	 (23.1)	 165.8
Portfolio	 restructuring	 	 –	 –	 –	 –	 9.5	 9.5
Costs	 of	 terminated	 acquisition	 	 –	 –	 –	 –	 3.9	 3.9
Unrealised	 loss	 on	 revaluation	 of	 currency	 instruments	 –	 –	 –	 –	 5.7	 5.7
Amortisation	 of	 intangible	 assets	 on	 acquisition	 4.9	 7.6	 0.8	 0.5	 0.1	 13.9
Total trading profit	 	 51.9	 74.8	 54.1	 21.9	 (3.9)	 198.8
Year to 31 December 2006
Result	 before	 joint	 ventures	 	 	 42.1	 67.4	 44.0	 15.3	 15.2	 184.0
Share	 of	 post-tax	 results	 of	 joint	 ventures	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 4.7	 –	 4.7
Operating profit from continuing operations 42.1	 67.4	 44.0	 20.0	 15.2	 188.7
Portfolio	 restructuring	 	 –	 –	 –	 –	 (1.5)	 (1.5)
Unrealised	 gain	 on	 revaluation	 of	 currency	 instruments	 –	 –	 –	 –	 (10.8)	 (10.8)
Amortisation	 of	 intangible	 assets	 on	 acquisition	 3.8	 4.3	 0.9	 0.1	 –	 9.1
Trading	 profit	 from	 continuing	 operations	 	 45.9	 71.7	 44.9	 20.1	 2.9	 185.5
Trading	 profit	 from	 discontinued	 operations	 	 –	 –	 –	 –	 0.8	 0.8
Total trading profit	 	 45.9	 71.7	 44.9	 20.1	 3.7	 186.3
Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements 55	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
1. Business and geographical segments (continued)
Assets and liabilities
Segment	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 are	 those	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 that	 are	 employed	 by	 a	 division	 in	 its	 operating	 activities.	 Segment	 assets	 include	 intangible	 assets,	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment,	 investment	 properties,	 inventories	 and	 trade	 and	 other	 receivables.	 Segment	 liabilities	 include	 trade	 and	 other	 payables	 and	 provisions.	 Unallocated	 assets	 include	 tax	 receivables,	 	 cash	 and	 bank	 balances	 and	 derivative	 financial	 assets.	 Unallocated	 liabilities	 include	 borrowings,	 tax	 liabilities,	 derivative	 	 financial	 liabilities	 and	 retirement	 benefit	 obligations.
	 	 	 Defence	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Avionics	 &	 Electronic	 Mission	 Aviation	 Other	 	 £m	 	 Surveillance	 Systems	 Systems	 Services	 Activities	 Total
As at 31 December 2007
Assets
Segment	 assets	 	 333.5	 305.6	 249.4	 170.5	 45.5	 1,104.5
Interests	 in	 joint	 ventures	 	 –	 –	 –	 18.8	 –	 18.8
	 	 	 333.5	 305.6	 249.4	 189.3	 45.5	 1,123.3
Unallocated	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 467.5
Consolidated	 total	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,590.8
Liabilities
Segment	 liabilities	 	 	 79.1	 49.5	 78.7	 45.6	 38.1	 291.0
Unallocated	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 495.7
Consolidated	 total	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 786.7
As at 31 December 2006
Assets	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Segment	 assets	 	 292.1	 303.3	 220.2	 152.3	 60.7	 1,028.6
Interests	 in	 joint	 ventures	 	 –	 –	 –	 15.7	 –	 15.7
	 	 	 292.1	 303.3	 220.2	 168.0	 60.7	 1,044.3
Unallocated	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 390.0
Consolidated	 total	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,434.3
Liabilities
Segment	 liabilities	 	 64.0	 41.3	 66.4	 48.3	 31.3	 251.3
Unallocated	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 468.0
Consolidated	 total	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 719.3
Other information
Capital additions 
Additions	 to	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 and	 intangible	 assets	 both	 purchased	 and	 internally	 generated	 are	 analysed	 by	 division	 as	 follows:
Year	 to	 31	 December	 2007	 	 6.2	 8.7	 5.0	 48.2	 0.3	 68.4
Year	 to	 31	 December	 2006	 	 7.5	 9.7	 4.4	 32.1	 0.9	 54.6
Depreciation and amortisation
Year	 to	 31	 December	 2007	 	 9.6	 14.8	 5.4	 19.9	 0.3	 50.0
Year	 to	 31	 December	 2006	 	 8.5	 11.6	 5.4	 19.6	 0.5	 45.6
Average number of employees
As	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 2,929	 	 	 2,536	 	 	 1,730	 	 	 1,735	 	 	 60	 	 	 8,990	 As	 at	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 2,727	 	 	 2,769	 	 	 1,914	 	 	 1,718	 	 	 381	 	 	 9,509	 56	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
1. Business and geographical segments (continued)
Geographical segments
Secondary	 segmental	 information	 is	 presented	 by	 geographical	 area.	 The	 main	 locations	 of	 the	 Group’s	 operating	 divisions	 are	 as	 follows:
	 	 	 Other 	 EU	 	 	 Rest 	 of	 	 	 UK	 countries	 USA	 Australia	 the 	 world
Avionics	 &	 Surveillance	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Defence	 Electronic	 Systems	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Mission	 Systems	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Aviation	 Services	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Other 	 EU	 	 	 Rest 	 of	 £m	 	 UK	 countries	 USA	 Australia	 the 	 world	 Total
Revenue
Revenue	 is	 analysed	 by	 geographical	 market,	 irrespective	 of	 the	 origin	 of	 the	 goods	 and	 services.	 Year to 31 December 2007
Continuing	 operations	 	 138.8	 175.4	 498.8	 123.4	 124.7	 1,061.1
Year to 31 December 2006
Continuing	 operations	 	 153.0	 166.4	 464.9	 119.7	 108.1	 1,012.1
Discontinued	 operations	 	 3.3	 –	 –	 –	 0.3	 3.6
	 	 	 156.3	 166.4	 464.9	 119.7	 108.4	 1,015.7
Segment assets
Segment	 assets	 include	 assets	 of	 joint	 ventures	 but	 exclude	 unallocated	 segment	 assets.
As	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 	 413.5	 127.6	 436.6	 90.2	 55.4	 1,123.3
As	 at	 31	 December	 2006	 	 379.9	 118.3	 437.8	 72.2	 36.1	 1,044.3
Capital additions
Capital	 additions	 include	 additions	 to	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 and	 both	 purchased	 and	 internally	 generated	 intangible	 assets.
Year	 to	 31	 December	 2007	 	 15.9	 2.8	 7.9	 40.9	 0.9	 68.4
Year	 to	 31	 December	 2006	 	 18.1	 2.0	 8.4	 24.4	 1.7	 54.6
Average number of employees by geographical area
As	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 	 2,426	 1,112	 3,682	 1,024	 746	 8,990
As	 at	 31	 December	 2006	 	 2,922	 1,221	 3,605	 988	 773	 9,509
2. Revenue and profit for the year
Revenue 
Revenue,	 both	 from	 continuing	 and	 discontinued	 operations,	 comprises	 income	 from	 the	 sale	 of	 goods	 and	 services	 during	 	 the	 year.
Sales	 of	 services	 arise	 primarily	 in	 the	 Cobham	 Aviation	 Services	 division.	 The	 Group’s	 revenue	 from	 continuing	 operations	 	 can	 be	 analysed	 as	 follows:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Revenue	 from	 sale	 of	 goods	 	 	 	 	 	 850.5	 802.4
Revenue	 from	 services	 	 	 	 	 	 210.6	 209.7
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,061.1	 1,012.1
Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 continued 57	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
2. Revenue and profit for the year (continued)
Profit for the year
The	 profit	 for	 the	 year	 from	 continuing	 operations	 is	 after	 charging/(crediting):
£m	 	 	 	 	 Note	 2007	 2006
Staff	 costs	 	 	 	 	 9	 326.2	 323.4
Materials	 costs	 of	 goods	 sold	 	 	 	 	 	 344.2 	 318.0
Research	 and	 development	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 55.0 	 49.1
Property	 rental	 income	 	 	 	 	 	 (2.1)	 (1.9)
Depreciation	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment		 	 	 	 15	 	 	 – 	 owned	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 35.0	 36.0
	 –	 under	 finance	 leases	 	 	 	 	 	 0.1	 –
Depreciation	 of	 investment	 properties	 	 	 	 	 16	 0.2	 0.2
Amortisation	 of	 intangible	 assets	 	 	 	 	 13	 	 	 – 	 intangible	 assets	 recognised	 on	 business	 combinations	 	 	 	 	 13.8	 9.1
	 –	 other	 intangible	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 0.9	 0.5
Profit	 on	 disposal	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 	 	 	 	 (1.5)	 (2.6)
Operating	 lease	 rentals
	 – 	 Aircraft	 	 	 	 	 	 2.7	 7.3
	 –	 Other	 including	 plant	 &	 machinery	 and	 property	 	 	 	 	 8.7	 8.9
Costs	 of	 terminated	 acquisition	 	 	 	 	 	 3.9 	 –
Portfolio	 restructuring	 	 	 	 	 8	 9.5 	 (1.5)
Net	 realised	 foreign	 exchange	 gains	 	 	 	 	 	 (7.8)	 (2.7)
Amortisation	 of	 intangible	 assets	 is	 included	 in	 administrative	 expenses.	 Research	 and	 development	 costs	 for	 discontinued	 operations	 were	 £nil	 (2006:	 £0.2m).
During	 the	 year	 the	 Group	 (including	 overseas	 subsidiaries)	 obtained	 the	 following	 services	 from	 the	 Group’s	 auditors	 at	 costs	 	 as	 detailed	 below:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Fees	 payable	 to	 the	 Company’s	 auditor	 for	 the	 audit	 of	 the	 Company’s	 annual	 accounts		 	 0.7	 0.7
	 	 	 	 Fees	 payable	 to	 the	 Company’s	 auditor	 and	 its	 associates	 for	 other	 services:
–	 The	 audit	 of	 the	 Company’s	 subsidiaries	 pursuant	 to	 legislation	 	 	 	 0.8	 0.8
–	 Other	 services	 relating	 to	 taxation	 	 	 	 	 	 0.3	 0.6
–	 Services	 relating	 to	 corporate	 finance	 transactions	 (terminated	 acquisition)	 	 	 0.5	 –
–	 All	 other	 services	 	 	 	 	 	 0.1	 0.1
Amounts	 paid	 to	 other	 auditors	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 0.1
In	 addition	 to	 the	 amounts	 shown	 above,	 the	 auditors	 received	 fees	 of	 £26,713	 (2006:	 £26,078)	 for	 audit	 of	 the	 Group’s	 pension	 schemes.	 A	 description	 of	 the	 work	 of	 the	 audit	 committee	 is	 set	 out	 in	 the	 Corporate	 Governance	 statement	 on	 pages	 31	 to	 34	 and	 includes	 an	 explanation	 of	 how	 auditor	 objectivity	 and	 independence	 is	 safeguarded	 when	 non-audit	 services	 are	 provided	 by	 the	 auditors.
3. Finance income and expense
£m	 	 	 	 	 Note	 2007	 2006
Finance	 income:
Bank	 interest	 	 	 	 	 	 	 20.3	 21.2
Expected	 return	 on	 pension	 scheme	 assets	 	 	 	 	 10	 28.1	 25.3
Other	 interest	 	 	 	 	 	 0.6	 0.8
Total	 finance	 income	 	 	 	 	 	 49.0	 47.3
Finance	 expense:
Interest	 on	 bank	 overdrafts	 and	 loans	 	 	 	 	 	 (17.7)	 (27.5)
Interest	 on	 pension	 scheme	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 10	 (22.7)	 (22.5)
Other	 interest	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.9)	 (0.7)
Total	 finance	 expense	 	 	 	 	 	 (41.3)	 (50.7)
Net	 finance	 income/(expense)	 	 	 	 	 	 7.7	 (3.4)
Included	 in	 bank	 interest	 received	 in	 2006	 is	 £0.1m	 relating	 to	 discontinued	 operations.
Net	 finance	 income	 excluding	 interest	 on	 pension	 schemes	 amounts	 to	 £2.3m	 (2006:	 expense	 £6.2m).	 Borrowing	 costs	 of	 £2.1m	 (2006:	 £1.6m)	 have	 been	 capitalised	 on	 qualifying	 assets	 in	 connection	 with	 the	 Sentinel	 contract	 at	 the	 Group’s	 external	 borrowing	 rate. 58	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
4. Income tax expense
	 	 	 	 	 £m	 	 	 	 	 Note	 2007	 2006
Current	 tax	 	 	 	 	 	 44.0	 44.2
Deferred	 tax	 	 	 	 	 23	 3.3	 6.6
Total	 tax	 charge	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 47.3	 50.8
In	 2006,	 the	 tax	 charge	 included	 a	 £0.3m	 charge	 to	 current	 tax	 and	 a	 £0.2m	 credit	 to	 deferred	 tax	 in	 respect	 of	 	 discontinued	 operations.	 The	 total	 income	 tax	 expense	 is	 analysed	 between	 UK	 and	 overseas	 tax	 as	 follows:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
United	 Kingdom	 	 	 	 	 	 20.4	 33.7
Overseas	 	 	 	 	 	 26.9	 17.1
Total	 tax	 charge	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 47.3	 50.8
Tax	 charge	 included	 in	 share	 of	 post-tax	 results	 of	 joint	 ventures	 	 	 	 1.7	 1.4
Income	 tax	 for	 the	 UK	 is	 calculated	 at	 the	 standard	 rate	 of	 UK	 corporation	 tax	 of	 30%	 (2006:	 30%)	 of	 the	 estimated	 assessable	 profit	 for	 the	 year.	 Taxation	 for	 other	 jurisdictions	 is	 calculated	 at	 the	 rates	 prevailing	 in	 the	 relevant	 jurisdictions.
The	 total	 charge	 for	 the	 year	 can	 be	 reconciled	 to	 the	 accounting	 profit	 as	 follows:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Profit	 before	 tax:
–	 continuing	 operations	 	 	 	 	 	 173.5	 185.2
–	 discontinued	 operations	 	 	 	 	 	 5.8	 13.9
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 179.3	 199.1
Tax	 at	 the	 domestic	 income	 tax	 rate	 of	 30.0%	 (2006:	 30.0%)	 	 	 	 53.8 	 59.7
Tax	 effect	 of	 share	 of	 results	 of	 joint	 ventures	 	 	 	 	 	 (1.7)	 (1.4)
Profit	 on	 disposals	 and	 other	 income	 not	 subject	 to	 tax	 	 	 	 	 (1.8) 	 (5.8)
Effect	 of	 differences	 in	 overseas	 taxation	 rates	 	 	 	 	 3.7	 3.5
Expenditure	 qualifying	 for	 additional	 R&D	 tax	 deduction	 	 	 	 	 (3.1)	 (2.3)
Adjustments	 to	 tax	 charge	 in	 respect	 of	 prior	 years	 	 	 	 	 (3.0)	 (3.1)
Impact	 of	 change	 in	 UK	 tax	 rate	 and	 other	 items	 	 	 	 	 (0.6)	 0.2
Total	 tax	 charge	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 47.3	 50.8
In	 addition	 to	 the	 income	 tax	 expense	 charged	 to	 the	 income	 statement,	 a	 deferred	 tax	 credit	 of	 £7.3m	 (2006:	 £8.4m	 charge)	 	 has	 been	 recognised	 in	 equity	 in	 the	 year	 as	 shown	 in	 the	 statement	 of	 recognised	 income	 and	 expense	 (see	 also	 note	 23).	 The	 standard	 rate	 of	 corporation	 tax	 in	 the	 UK	 has	 changed	 from	 30%	 to	 28%,	 effective	 from	 1	 April	 2008.	 This	 has	 reduced	 deferred	 tax	 liabilities	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 by	 £0.7m	 and	 will	 further	 reduce	 future	 UK	 tax	 charges.	 5. Dividends
The	 following	 dividends	 were	 authorised	 and	 paid	 during	 the	 year:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Dividends on Ordinary Shares
Final	 dividend	 of	 2.64p	 per	 share	 for	 2006	 (2005:	 2.40p)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30.0	 	 27.1
Interim	 dividend	 of	 1.22p	 per	 share	 for	 2007	 (2006:	 1.11p)	 	 	 	 	 	 13.8	 12.6
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 43.8	 39.7
In	 addition	 to	 the	 above,	 the	 Directors	 are	 proposing	 a	 final	 dividend	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 financial	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2007	 	 of	 3.28	 pence	 per	 share	 which	 will	 absorb	 an	 estimated	 £37.2m	 of	 shareholders’	 funds.	 This	 dividend	 is	 subject	 to	 approval	 by	 shareholders	 at	 the	 Annual	 General	 Meeting	 and	 has	 not	 been	 included	 as	 a	 liability	 in	 these	 financial	 statements.	 If	 authorised,	 	 it	 will	 be	 paid	 on	 1	 July	 2008	 to	 shareholders	 who	 are	 on	 the	 register	 of	 members	 as	 at	 30	 May	 2008.	 The	 total	 dividend	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 financial	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2007	 will	 therefore	 be	 4.50	 pence	 per	 share	 (2006:	 3.75	 pence).	 The	 total	 amount	 paid	 in	 respect	 of	 2007	 will	 be	 £51.0m	 (2006:	 £42.6m).
Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 continued 59	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
6. Earnings per ordinary share
From continuing and discontinued operations
	 	 	 	 2007	 	 	 2006
	 	 	 Weighted	 	 	 Weighted	
	 	 	 average	 	 	 average	 	 	 	 	 number	 Per-share 	 	 number	 Per-share	 	 	 Earnings	 of 	 shares	 amount 	 Earnings	 of 	 shares	 amount	
	 	 £m	 million	 pence 	 £m	 million	 pence
Basic earnings per share (EPS)
Earnings	 attributable	 to	 ordinary	 shareholders	 	 131.7	 1,134.0	 11.61	 148.1	 1,128.3	 13.13
Effect	 of	 dilutive	 securities:
Options	 	 	 6.4	 	 	 10.9	 Diluted	 EPS	 	 131.7	 1,140.4	 11.55 	 148.1	 1,139.2	 13.00
From continuing operations
	 	 	 	 2007	 	 	 2006
	 	 	 Weighted	 	 	 Weighted	
	 	 	 average	 	 	 average	 	 	 	 	 number	 Per-share 	 	 number	 Per-share	 	 	 Earnings	 of 	 shares	 amount 	 Earnings	 of 	 shares	 amount	
	 	 £m	 million	 pence 	 £m	 million	 pence
Basic earnings per share (EPS)
Earnings	 attributable	 to	 ordinary	 shareholders	 	 131.7	 	 	 148.1	 	 Earnings	 from	 discontinued	 operations	 	 (5.8)	 	 	 (13.8)	 	 Earnings	 from	 continuing	 operations	 	 125.9	 1,134.0	 11.10 	 134.3	 1,128.3	 11.90
Effect	 of	 dilutive	 securities:
Options	 	 	 6.4 	 	 	 10.9	 Diluted	 EPS	 	 125.9	 1,140.4	 11.04	 134.3	 1,139.2	 11.79
7. Underlying profit and earnings per share
In	 addition	 to	 the	 information	 required	 by	 IAS	 33,	 Earnings	 per	 share,	 the	 Directors	 believe	 that	 it	 is	 helpful	 to	 calculate	 	 an	 underlying	 earnings	 per	 share	 figure.	 Underlying	 earnings	 exclude	 the	 impacts	 of	 the	 amortisation	 of	 intangible	 assets	 recognised	 on	 acquisition,	 fair	 value	 adjustments	 to	 inventory	 on	 acquisition,	 the	 marking	 to	 market	 of	 currency	 instruments	 not	 realised	 in	 the	 period	 and	 impairments	 of	 goodwill.	 There	 has	 been	 no	 impairment	 to	 goodwill	 in	 the	 current	 or	 comparative	 periods.
Underlying	 earnings	 also	 exclude	 portfolio	 restructuring	 costs,	 which	 comprise	 exceptional	 profits	 or	 losses	 arising	 on	 disposals	 actually	 completed	 during	 the	 period,	 as	 well	 as	 exceptional	 costs	 or	 profits	 associated	 with	 the	 restructuring	 of	 the	 Group’s	 business	 and	 property	 portfolio,	 and	 direct	 costs	 associated	 with	 exceptional	 terminated	 acquisitions.
	 	 	 	 	 2007	 	 	 2006
	 	 	 	 	 Continuing 	 	 Discontinued 	 	 	 £m	 	 	 Note	 Total	 operations	 operations	 Total
Revenue	 	 	 	 1,061.1	 1,012.1	 3.6	 1,015.7
Operating profit	 	 	 	 165.8	 188.7	 0.8	 189.5
Loss/(gain)	 on	 portfolio	 restructuring	 	 	 8	 	 9.5	 (1.5)	 –	 (1.5)
Unrealised	 loss/(gain)	 on	 revaluation	 of	 currency	 instruments	 26 	 	 5.7	 (10.8)	 –	 (10.8)
Costs	 of	 terminated	 acquisition	 	 	 	 3.9	 –	 –	 –
Amortisation	 of	 intangible	 assets	 arising	 on	 	 acquisition	 including	 fair	 value	 adjustment	 	 	 	 13.9	 9.1	 –	 9.1
Trading profit	 	 	 	 198.8	 185.5	 0.8	 186.3
Net	 finance	 income/(expense)	 	 	 3	 7.7 	 (3.5)	 0.1	 (3.4)
Underlying profit before taxation	 	 	 	 206.5 	 182.0	 0.9	 182.9
Taxation	 charge	 on	 underlying	 profit	 	 	 	 (57.8)	 (51.0)	 (0.1)	 (51.1)
Minority	 interest	 	 	 	 (0.3)	 (0.2)	 –	 (0.2)
Underlying profit after tax attributable to equity shareholders	 	 148.4	 130.8	 0.8	 131.6
Underlying basic EPS	 	 	 	 13.09p	 	 	 11.66p
Underlying diluted EPS 	 	 	 	 13.01p 	 	 	 11.55p
Underlying	 administrative	 expenses	 amounted	 to	 £89.5m	 (2006:	 £95.0m).	 This	 excludes	 portfolio	 restructuring	 costs,	 	 direct	 costs	 of	 the	 exceptional	 terminated	 acquisition	 and	 amortisation	 of	 intangible	 assets	 recognised	 on	 acquisition. 60	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
8. Portfolio restructuring
During	 2007	 the	 Group	 undertook	 a	 number	 of	 restructuring	 projects.	 Consolidation	 of	 the	 diving	 products	 business	 based	 in	 Mississauga,	 Canada,	 into	 existing	 facilities	 in	 Iowa,	 USA	 and	 the	 integration	 of	 the	 antennas	 business	 based	 in	 Southampton,	 UK,	 into	 the	 new	 purpose	 designed	 facility	 in	 Marlow,	 UK	 were	 both	 completed.	 A	 project	 to	 redevelop	 the	 Wimborne,	 UK,	 	 site	 of	 Cobham	 Mission	 Systems	 has	 commenced	 and	 will	 continue	 in	 2008.	 In	 October	 2007,	 £5.8m	 of	 contingent	 consideration	 was	 received	 relating	 to	 the	 sale	 of	 the	 Group’s	 Countermeasures	 business	 in	 2006.	 Consistent	 with	 the	 treatment	 adopted	 for	 this	 business	 in	 2006,	 the	 profit	 on	 sale	 that	 this	 represents	 has	 been	 treated	 as	 part	 of	 discontinued	 businesses	 and	 excluded	 from	 the	 underlying	 results	 of	 the	 Group.
During	 2006,	 portfolio	 restructuring	 activity	 was	 focused	 on	 the	 sale	 and	 closure	 of	 a	 number	 of	 businesses.
Profits	 from	 all	 of	 these	 activities	 have	 been	 excluded	 from	 trading	 profit	 and	 underlying	 earnings	 for	 the	 Group.	 	 Restructuring	 costs	 and	 the	 profit	 on	 disposal	 of	 continuing	 activities	 are	 included	 within	 administrative	 expenses.	 £m	 	 	 	 	 Note 	 2007 	 2006
Restructuring	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 (9.5)	 –
Profit	 on	 disposal	 of	 continuing	 activities	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 1.5
Profit	 on	 disposal	 of	 discontinued	 activities	 	 	 	 	 33	 5.8	 13.0
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (3.7)	 14.5
Tax	 effect	 of	 portfolio	 restructuring	 	 	 	 	 	 2.9 	 0.7
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.8) 	 15.2
9. Employment costs
£m	 	 	 	 	 Note	 2007	 2006
Wages	 and	 salaries	 	 	 	 	 	 275.2	 273.6
Social	 security	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 31.3	 31.0
Pension	 costs	 –	 defined	 benefit	 	 	 	 	 10	 6.0	 7.2
	 –	 defined	 contribution	 	 	 	 	 10	 9.1	 9.3
Share-based	 payments	 	 	 	 	 11	 4.6	 3.0
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 326.2	 324.1
Employment	 costs	 –	 continuing	 operations	 	 	 	 	 	 326.2	 323.4
Employment	 costs	 –	 discontinued	 operations	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 0.7
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 326.2	 324.1
10. Retirement benefit schemes
Defined contribution schemes
The	 Group	 manages	 a	 number	 of	 defined	 contribution	 pension	 arrangements.
The	 total	 expense	 recognised	 in	 the	 income	 statement	 of	 £9.1m	 (2006:	 £9.3m)	 represents	 contributions	 payable	 to	 these	 schemes	 by	 the	 Group	 at	 rates	 specified	 in	 the	 rules	 of	 the	 schemes.
There	 were	 no	 significant	 contributions	 outstanding	 at	 the	 end	 of	 2007	 or	 2006	 for	 either	 the	 defined	 benefit	 or	 defined	 contribution	 schemes.
Defined benefit schemes
The	 Group	 operates	 a	 number	 of	 defined	 benefit	 schemes,	 the	 most	 significant	 being	 the	 Cobham	 Pension	 Plan	 (CPP),	 which	 is	 a	 funded	 defined	 benefit	 scheme.	 The	 assets	 of	 all	 of	 these	 schemes	 are	 held	 separately	 from	 those	 of	 the	 Group	 in	 funds	 under	 the	 control	 of	 trustees.	 From	 1	 January	 2003,	 new	 employees	 in	 the	 UK	 have	 only	 been	 able	 to	 join	 the	 defined	 contribution	 scheme.	 In	 the	 USA,	 the	 Carleton	 Technologies	 defined	 benefit	 scheme	 has	 been	 closed	 to	 new	 members	 from	 13	 December	 2003.
Special	 contributions	 of	 £5.3m	 were	 paid	 in	 2007	 (2006:	 £5.3m)	 to	 the	 CPP	 as	 agreed	 in	 connection	 with	 the	 disposal	 of	 the	 Fluid	 and	 Air	 group	 which	 completed	 in	 2005.
In	 2006,	 further	 special	 contributions	 totalling	 £6.2m	 were	 made	 to	 the	 CPP	 as	 part	 of	 the	 settlement	 of	 the	 disposals	 of	 Wallop	 Defence	 Systems	 Limited	 and	 Slingsby	 Aviation	 Limited	 which	 were	 completed	 in	 2006.	 In	 addition,	 a	 settlement	 gain	 of	 £1.7m	 was	 recognised	 in	 2006	 as	 part	 of	 the	 profit	 on	 the	 disposal	 of	 Dräger	 Aerospace	 GmbH,	 and	 a	 curtailment	 gain	 of	 £1.0m	 was	 recognised	 as	 part	 of	 the	 profit	 on	 the	 disposal	 of	 Wallop	 Defence	 Systems	 Limited	 and	 Slingsby	 Aviation	 Limited.	 Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 continued 61	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
10. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
Actuarial	 valuations	 of	 scheme	 assets	 and	 the	 present	 value	 of	 the	 defined	 benefit	 obligations	 for	 the	 CPP	 are	 carried	 out	 on	 a	 triennial	 basis	 by	 qualified	 independent	 actuaries,	 the	 most	 recent	 valuation	 was	 as	 at	 1	 April	 2006.	 The	 actuarial	 valuations	 were	 updated	 by	 qualified	 independent	 actuaries	 for	 accounting	 purposes	 to	 31	 December	 2007.	 Actuarial	 valuations	 of	 other	 schemes	 have	 been	 carried	 out	 at	 regular	 intervals	 as	 required	 by	 the	 applicable	 country	 regulations.
For	 the	 purposes	 of	 IAS	 19,	 the	 principal	 assumptions	 used	 for	 the	 purpose	 of	 the	 actuarial	 valuations	 were	 as	 follows:
	 	 	 	 	 2007	 	 2006
	 	 	 	 UK	 USA 	 UK	 USA	
	 	 	 	 Schemes	 Scheme 	 Schemes	 Scheme
Rate	 of	 increase	 in	 salary	 costs	 	 	 	 3.80%	 3.80% 	 3.50%	 3.50%
Discount	 rate	 	 	 	 	 5.82%	 5.82% 	 5.10%	 5.60%
Inflation	 assumption	 	 	 	 3.30%	 3.30% 	 3.00%	 3.00%
Expected	 return	 on	 scheme	 assets	 	 	 	 	 6.60%	 7.06% 	 6.95%	 7.10%
Pensions	 increase	 unless	 overridden	 by	 specific	 scheme	 rules	 	 3.30%	 n/a 	 3.00%	 n/a
The	 mortality	 assumptions	 used	 for	 the	 CPP	 are	 based	 upon	 actual	 recent	 mortality	 experiences	 of	 members	 within	 the	 scheme	 and	 also	 allow	 for	 future	 mortality	 improvements.	 The	 mortality	 assumption	 used	 in	 2007	 is	 denoted	 by	 actuaries	 as	 “PA92	 year	 of	 birth	 projections	 medium	 cohort”.	 In	 practical	 terms	 this	 is	 demonstrated	 in	 the	 table	 below:
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Further 	 life	
Gender	 	 	 	 	 Year 	 of	 birth	 Year 	 age	 65	 expectancy
Male	 	 	 	 	 1942	 2007	 21.9 	 years
Male	 	 	 	 	 1980	 2045	 23.7 	 years
The	 mortality	 assumption	 used	 for	 the	 CPP	 at	 31	 December	 2006	 was	 “PA92	 projected	 by	 individual	 year”	 demonstrated	 	 as	 follows:	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Further 	 life	
Gender	 	 	 	 	 Year 	 of	 birth	 Year 	 age	 65	 	 expectancy
Male	 	 	 	 	 1940	 2005	 19.5 	 years
Male	 	 	 	 	 1980	 2045	 21.7 	 years
At	 31	 December	 2007	 it	 has	 been	 assumed	 that	 members	 will	 commute	 on	 average	 20%	 (2006:	 20%)	 of	 their	 pension	 for	 cash	 at	 retirement.	 This	 implies	 a	 full	 take-up	 of	 the	 permitted	 25%	 (2006:	 25%)	 commutation	 by	 approximately	 80%	 (2006:	 80%)	 of	 eligible	 members	 on	 retirement.
The	 amounts	 recognised	 in	 the	 balance	 sheet	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 Group’s	 defined	 benefit	 schemes	 are	 as	 follows:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Present	 value	 of	 funded	 obligations	 	 	 	 	 	 (457.7)	 (447.8)
Fair	 value	 of	 scheme	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 420.5	 418.2
Net	 liability	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (37.2)	 (29.6)
The	 scheme	 assets	 do	 not	 include	 any	 of	 the	 Group’s	 own	 financial	 instruments,	 nor	 any	 property	 occupied	 by,	 or	 other	 assets	 used	 by,	 the	 Group.
Amounts	 recognised	 in	 operating	 profit	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 defined	 benefit	 schemes	 are	 as	 follows:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Current	 service	 cost	 included	 in	 administrative	 expenses	 	 	 	 	 6.0 	 6.9
Past	 service	 cost	 included	 in	 administrative	 expenses	 	 	 	 	 –	 0.3
Gain	 on	 curtailment	 included	 in	 profit	 on	 disposal	 	 	 	 	 –	 (1.0)
Gain	 on	 settlement	 included	 in	 profit	 on	 disposal	 	 	 	 	 –	 (1.7)
Amounts	 credited/(charged)	 to	 other	 finance	 income/expense
£m	 	 	 	 	 Note	 2007	 2006
Expected	 return	 on	 pension	 scheme	 assets	 	 	 	 	 3	 28.1	 25.3
Interest	 on	 pension	 scheme	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 3	 (22.7)	 (22.5)
Net	 return	 	 	 	 	 	 5.4 	 2.8 62	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
10. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
Amount	 recognised	 in	 the	 statement	 of	 recognised	 income	 and	 expense	 (SORIE):
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Actual	 return	 less	 expected	 return	 on	 pension	 scheme	 assets	 	 	 	 (31.2)	 13.2
Experience	 (losses)/gains	 arising	 on	 scheme	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 (0.3) 	 0.8
Exchange	 differences	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 0.2
Changes	 in	 assumptions	 underlying	 present	 value	 of	 scheme	 liabilities	 	 	 	 7.8 	 18.6
Actuarial	 (loss)/gain	 recognised	 in	 SORIE	 	 	 	 	 	 (23.7)	 32.8
The	 cumulative	 amount	 of	 actuarial	 gains	 and	 losses	 recognised	 in	 the	 statement	 of	 recognised	 income	 and	 expense	 since	 transition	 to	 IFRS	 is	 £42.1m	 loss	 (2006:	 £18.4m	 loss).
The	 actual	 return	 on	 scheme	 assets	 was	 £3.1m	 loss	 (2006:	 gain	 £38.5m).
Changes	 in	 the	 present	 value	 of	 the	 defined	 benefit	 obligations	 are	 as	 follows:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Opening	 defined	 benefit	 obligations	 	 	 	 	 	 447.8 	 451.3
Current	 service	 cost	 	 	 	 	 	 6.0	 6.9
Past	 service	 cost	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 0.3
Interest	 cost	 	 	 	 	 	 22.7	 22.5
Actuarial	 gains	 	 	 	 	 	 (7.5)	 (19.4)
Contributions	 by	 members	 	 	 	 	 	 2.4	 2.8
NI	 rebates	 	 	 	 	 	 1.0	 1.0
Gains	 on	 curtailments	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (1.0)
Gains	 on	 settlements	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (1.7)
Exchange	 differences	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.2) 	 (1.3)
Benefits	 paid	 	 	 	 	 	 (14.5) 	 (13.6)
Closing	 defined	 benefit	 obligations	 	 	 	 	 	 457.7	 447.8
Changes	 in	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 scheme	 assets	 are	 as	 follows:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Opening	 fair	 value	 of	 scheme	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 418.2	 370.3
Expected	 return	 	 	 	 	 	 28.1	 25.3
Actuarial	 (losses)/gains	 	 	 	 	 	 (31.2) 	 13.2
Contributions	 by	 members	 	 	 	 	 	 2.4	 2.8
NI	 rebates	 	 	 	 	 	 1.0	 1.0
Contributions	 by	 employers	 	 	 	 	 	 11.4	 8.8
Special	 contributions	 	 	 	 	 	 5.3	 11.5
Exchange	 differences	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.2)	 (1.1)
Benefits	 paid	 	 	 	 	 	 (14.5)	 (13.6)
Closing	 fair	 value	 of	 scheme	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 420.5	 418.2
The	 Group	 expects	 to	 contribute	 £16.8m	 to	 its	 defined	 benefit	 pension	 schemes	 in	 2008.	 The	 fair	 value	 of	 major	 categories	 of	 scheme	 assets,	 and	 as	 a	 percentage	 of	 total	 scheme	 assets	 are	 as	 follows:
	 	 	 	 	 2007	 	 2006
	 	 	 	 	 £m	 %	 £m	 %
Equity	 instruments	 	 	 	 229.4	 54.6% 	 243.2	 58.1%
Debt	 instruments	 	 	 	 157.4	 37.4% 	 118.6	 28.4%
Property	 	 	 	 27.7	 6.6% 	 27.9	 6.7%
Other	 assets	 	 	 	 6.0	 1.4%	 28.5	 6.8%
	 	 	 	 	 420.5	 100.0% 	 418.2	 100.0%
The	 expected	 rates	 of	 return	 on	 individual	 categories	 of	 scheme	 assets	 are	 determined	 by	 reference	 to	 relevant	 indices	 published	 by,	 for	 example,	 the	 London	 Stock	 Exchange.	 The	 overall	 expected	 rate	 of	 return	 is	 calculated	 by	 weighting	 the	 individual	 rates	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 anticipated	 balance	 in	 the	 scheme’s	 investment	 portfolio.
Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 continued 63	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
10. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
The	 history	 of	 the	 scheme	 for	 the	 current	 and	 previous	 four	 periods	 is	 as	 follows:
£m	 	 	 2007	 2006	 2005	 2004	 2003
Present	 value	 of	 defined	 benefit	 obligations	 	 	 (457.7)	 (447.8)	 (451.3)	 (363.2)	 (326.1)
Fair	 value	 of	 scheme	 assets	 	 	 420.5	 418.2	 370.3	 294.2	 254.9
Deficit	 	 	 (37.2) 	 (29.6)	 (81.0)	 (69.0)	 (71.2)
Experience	 adjustments	 on	 scheme	 liabilities	 	 	 (0.3)	 0.8	 (9.9)	 (5.4)	 2.1
Experience	 adjustments	 on	 scheme	 assets	 	 	 (31.2)	 13.2	 33.1	 8.8	 20.3
	 Note	 that	 historical	 data	 for	 2003	 is	 as	 stated	 under	 UK	 GAAP,	 FRS	 17,	 Retirement	 benefits.
Other retirement benefit schemes
A	 number	 of	 the	 Group’s	 subsidiaries	 based	 in	 France	 contribute	 to	 a	 retirement	 indemnity	 scheme.	 The	 liabilities	 of	 the	 scheme	 were	 valued	 by	 an	 independent	 actuary	 as	 at	 31	 December	 2006	 at	 €2.9m	 and	 are	 recorded	 in	 these	 financial	 statements	 at	 £2.1m	 (2006:	 £2.0m).	 These	 liabilities	 are	 included	 in	 other	 liabilities	 in	 note	 21.	 The	 actuarial	 loss	 for	 the	 year	 to	 31	 December	 2007	 as	 recognised	 in	 the	 statement	 of	 recognised	 income	 and	 expense	 was	 £nil	 (2006:	 £0.5m).	 11. Share-based payments
The	 total	 expense	 for	 share-based	 payments	 is	 as	 follows:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Equity	 settled	 share-based	 payment	 schemes		 	 	 	 	 4.4	 2.8
Cash	 settled	 share-based	 payment	 schemes	 	 	 	 	 	 0.2	 0.2
Total	 share-based	 payments	 	 	 	 	 	 4.6	 3.0
In	 addition,	 in	 2006,	 a	 further	 £0.3m	 was	 credited	 to	 reserves	 in	 connection	 with	 discontinued	 operations.	 Details	 of	 the	 schemes	 which	 give	 rise	 to	 these	 charges	 are	 as	 follows:
Equity settled share-based payment schemes
The	 Group	 operates	 a	 number	 of	 incentive	 schemes	 for	 certain	 senior	 executives	 as	 follows:	 	 The	 Cobham	 Performance	 Share	 Plan	 (PSP);	 	 The	 Cobham	 Long-Term	 Incentive	 Plan	 (LTIP);	 and	 	 The	 Cobham	 Executive	 Share	 Option	 Scheme	 (ESOS).
The	 PSP	 scheme	 allows	 for	 annual	 grants	 of	 conditional	 shares	 at	 nil	 cost	 which	 vest	 50%	 based	 on	 the	 Group’s	 three-year	 Total	 Shareholder	 Return	 relative	 to	 that	 of	 a	 sector	 comparator	 group	 and	 50%	 based	 on	 the	 growth	 of	 the	 Group’s	 EPS	 over	 the	 same	 period.	 The	 PSP	 was	 approved	 at	 the	 AGM	 held	 on	 6	 June	 2007	 and	 replaces	 the	 LTIP	 scheme.
Under	 the	 LTIP	 scheme	 awards	 were	 made	 at	 nil	 cost,	 vesting	 over	 a	 three-year	 performance	 period	 based	 on	 the	 Group’s	 Total	 Shareholder	 Return	 relative	 to	 that	 of	 a	 comparator	 group	 and	 also	 conditional	 upon	 the	 Group’s	 EPS	 growth	 over	 the	 same	 period.
Under	 the	 ESOS,	 options	 are	 granted	 at	 a	 price	 not	 less	 than	 the	 market	 value	 of	 the	 Group’s	 ordinary	 shares	 on,	 or	 shortly	 before,	 the	 date	 the	 options	 are	 granted.	 Exercise	 is	 conditional	 upon	 the	 Group’s	 EPS	 growth	 over	 a	 three-year	 period.	 A	 new	 section	 has	 been	 added	 to	 the	 ESOS	 scheme	 during	 2007	 under	 which	 options	 are	 granted	 with	 25%	 vesting	 on	 each	 annual	 anniversary	 conditional	 only	 on	 continued	 employment	 within	 the	 Group.	 Further	 details	 of	 these	 schemes	 can	 be	 found	 in	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 on	 pages	 35	 to	 41.	 In	 addition,	 entry	 to	 the	 Cobham	 Savings	 Related	 Share	 Option	 Scheme	 (ShareSave)	 is	 available	 to	 all	 employees	 of	 participating	 subsidiaries.	 Employees	 may	 purchase	 the	 Group’s	 shares	 at	 80%	 of	 the	 closing	 market	 price	 on	 the	 date	 of	 grant	 during	 a	 two-
week	 period	 each	 year,	 up	 to	 a	 maximum	 contribution	 value	 of	 £3,000	 in	 any	 one	 year.	 The	 shares	 so	 purchased	 are	 generally	 placed	 in	 the	 employee’s	 share	 savings	 plan	 and	 will	 only	 be	 released	 to	 employees	 who	 remain	 in	 the	 Group’s	 employment	 for	 	 a	 period	 of	 three	 years	 from	 the	 date	 of	 grant.	 64	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
11. Share-based payments (continued)
Details	 of	 the	 share	 options	 are	 as	 follows:
Number	 of	 share	 options	 	 	 	 PSP	 LTIP	 ESOS	 ShareSave
At	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 	 –	 3,867,536 	 	 16,081,427 	 	 16,168,325	 Awards	 granted	 	 	 	 –	 	 1,183,165 	 	 2,927,328 	 	 1,752,463	 Awards	 forfeited	 	 	 	 –	 	 (60,095)	 (516,218)	 (396,621)
Exercised	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 	 (2,982,728)	 (4,921,408)
Expired	 	 	 	 	 –	 	 (963,590)	 (92,360)	 (2,061,971)
At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 –	 4,027,016 	 	 15,417,449 	 	 10,540,788	 Awards	 granted	 	 	 	 1,514,138 	 	 –	 5,928,893 	 	 1,735,717	 Awards	 forfeited	 	 	 	 (35,697)	 (135,997)	 (562,418)	 (347,295)
Exercised	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 	 (2,513,342)	 (2,139,762)
Expired	 	 	 	 	 –	 	 (1,357,076)	 (19,730)	 (138,162)
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 1,478,441 	 	 2,533,943 	 	 18,250,852 	 	 9,651,286	 Exercisable	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 –	 –	 	 5,690,170 	 	 193,760	 Exercisable	 at	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 –	 	 –	 4,950,112 	 	 –
The	 weighted	 average	 remaining	 contractual	 life	 in	 years	 of	 awards	 is	 as	 follows:
Outstanding	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 2.32	 0.78	 7.59	 2.22
Outstanding	 at	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 –	 	 1.34	 7.48	 2.00
Under	 the	 ESOS	 and	 ShareSave	 schemes,	 exercises	 were	 made	 at	 various	 times	 throughout	 the	 year.	 The	 average	 share	 price	 in	 that	 period	 was	 £2.036	 (2006:	 £1.777).	 All	 awards	 under	 the	 PSP	 and	 LTIP	 schemes	 have	 a	 nil	 exercise	 price.	 The	 weighted	 average	 exercise	 prices	 of	 awards	 under	 the	 ESOS	 and	 ShareSave	 schemes	 are	 as	 follows:
£	 	 	 	 	 	 ESOS	 ShareSave
At	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 1.224 	 	 0.939	 Awards	 granted	 	 	 	 	 	 1.855 	 	 1.530	 Awards	 forfeited	 	 	 	 	 	 1.433 	 	 1.001	 Exercised	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.032 	 	 0.819	 Expired	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.194 	 	 0.997	 At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 1.375	 	 1.092	 Awards	 granted	 	 	 	 	 	 2.045 	 	 1.630	 Awards	 forfeited	 	 	 	 	 	 1.537	 	 1.205	 Exercised	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.096	 	 0.887	 Expired	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.186	 	 1.193	 At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 1.629	 	 1.229	 Exercisable	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 1.213	 	 1.093	 Exercisable	 at	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 1.060 	 	 –	 The	 range	 of	 exercise	 prices	 for	 ESOS	 and	 ShareSave	 awards	 are	 as	 follows:
Outstanding	 at	 31	 December	 2007
Lowest	 exercise	 price	 	 	 	 	 	 0.619	 0.769
Highest	 exercise	 price	 	 	 	 	 	 2.045	 1.630
Outstanding	 at	 31	 December	 2006
Lowest	 exercise	 price	 	 	 	 	 	 0.619	 0.691
Highest	 exercise	 price	 	 	 	 	 	 1.898	 1.530
Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 continued 65	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
11. Share-based payments (continued)
Awards	 granted	 or	 commencing	 during	 the	 current	 and	 comparative	 year	 are	 as	 follows:	 £	 	 	 	 	 PSP	 LTIP	 ESOS	 ShareSave
During	 2007:
Effective	 date	 of	 grant	 or	 commencement	 date	 	 	 6	 June	 –	 6 	 June	 1 	 February
Fair	 value	 at	 date	 of	 grant	 or	 scheme	 commencement
–	 Three-year	 awards	 	 	 	 1.530	 –	 0.473	 0.560
–	 Five-year	 awards	 	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 0.640
–	 Seven-year	 awards	 	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 	 0.730
Effective	 date	 of	 grant	 	 	 	 12 	 June	 –	 –	 –
Fair	 value	 at	 date	 of	 grant	 	 	 	 1.498	 –	 	 –	 	 –	 During	 2006:
Effective	 date	 of	 grant	 or	 commencement	 date	 	 	 –	 	 12 	 May	 12 	 May	 1 	 February
Fair	 value	 at	 date	 of	 grant	 or	 scheme	 commencement
–	 Three-year	 awards	 	 	 	 –	 	 0.903	 0.450	 0.690
–	 Five-year	 awards	 	 	 	 –	 	 –	 –	 	 0.760
–	 Seven-year	 awards	 	 	 	 –	 	 –	 –	 0.810
Effective	 date	 of	 grant	 	 	 	 –	 	14 	 November	 14 	 November	 –	 Fair	 value	 at	 date	 of	 grant	 	 	 	 –	 	 0.909	 0.470	 –
The	 fair	 values	 in	 the	 table	 above	 were	 calculated	 using	 the	 Black-Scholes	 option	 pricing	 model	 (modified	 by	 a	 Monte	 Carlo	 simulation	 for	 PSP	 and	 LTIP	 awards)	 to	 determine	 the	 likely	 impact	 of	 market	 related	 performance	 conditions.	 The	 inputs	 into	 the	 model	 were	 as	 follows:	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 PSP	 LTIP	 ESOS	 ShareSave
2007
Weighted	 average	 share	 price	 	 	 	 £2.149	 –	 	 £2.088	 £1.920
Weighted	 average	 exercise	 price	 	 	 	 nil	 –	 	 £2.045	 £1.530
Expected	 volatility	 	 	 	 24%	 –	 	 23%	 24%-27%
Expected	 life	 	 	 	 3 	 Years	 –	 	 5 	 Years	 3 	 –	 7	 Years
Risk-free	 rate	 	 	 	 5.6%	 –	 	 4.3%	 4.9%
Expected	 dividend	 yield	 	 	 	 n/a	 –	 	 1.8%	 1.8%
2006
Weighted	 average	 share	 price	 	 	 	 –	 	 £1.832	 £1.833	 £1.850
Weighted	 average	 exercise	 price	 	 	 	 –	 	 nil	 £1.855	 £1.240
Expected	 volatility	 	 	 	 –	 	 22%	 25%	 22%-27%
Expected	 life	 	 	 	 –	 	 3 	 Years	 5 	 Years	 3 	 –	 7	 Years
Risk-free	 rate	 	 	 	 –	 	 4.5%	 4.5%	 4.3%
Expected	 dividend	 yield	 	 	 	 –	 	 1.9%	 1.9%	 1.8%
Expected	 volatility	 was	 determined	 through	 the	 assessment	 of	 the	 historical	 volatility	 over	 a	 period	 consistent	 with	 the	 expected	 life	 of	 the	 award.	 The	 expected	 life	 used	 in	 the	 model	 has	 been	 adjusted,	 based	 on	 management’s	 best	 estimate,	 for	 the	 effects	 of	 non-transferability,	 exercise	 restrictions	 and	 behavioural	 considerations.	 Participants	 of	 the	 PSP	 scheme	 receive	 the	 benefit	 of	 dividend	 payments	 and	 therefore	 dividend	 yields	 are	 not	 taken	 into	 consideration	 in	 the	 valuation	 model.
Cash settled share-based payment schemes
During	 2006,	 the	 Group	 issued	 share	 appreciation	 rights	 (SARs)	 and	 awards	 under	 a	 phantom	 LTIP	 scheme	 to	 certain	 senior	 executives	 that	 require	 the	 Group	 to	 pay	 the	 intrinsic	 value	 of	 the	 award	 to	 the	 employee	 at	 the	 date	 of	 exercise.	 During	 2007,	 4,703	 SARs	 were	 granted.	 The	 expense	 for	 the	 year	 for	 these	 rights	 is	 based	 on	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 outstanding	 liability	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date	 of	 £0.4m	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 (2006:	 £0.2m).	 SARs	 are	 granted	 at	 a	 price	 not	 less	 than	 the	 market	 value	 of	 the	 Group’s	 Ordinary	 Shares	 on,	 or	 shortly	 before,	 the	 date	 the	 rights	 are	 granted.	 As	 with	 the	 ESOS	 awards,	 exercise	 is	 conditional	 upon	 the	 Group’s	 EPS	 growth	 over	 a	 three-year	 period	 and	 is	 possible	 between	 three	 and	 10	 years	 after	 grant.	 Phantom	 LTIP	 awards	 are	 made	 at	 nil	 cost,	 vesting	 over	 a	 three-year	 performance	 period	 based	 on	 the	 Group’s	 Total	 Shareholder	 Return	 relative	 to	 that	 of	 a	 comparator	 group	 and	 also	 conditional	 upon	 the	 Group’s	 EPS	 growth	 over	 the	 same	 period.	 The	 comparator	 group	 and	 conditions	 are	 the	 same	 as	 those	 which	 apply	 for	 LTIPs,	 further	 details	 of	 which	 can	 be	 found	 in	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 on	 pages	 35	 to	 41.	 66	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
11. Share-based payments (continued)
Details	 of	 the	 awards	 are	 as	 follows:
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Phantom	 	 	 	 	 	 	 SARs	 LTIPs
At	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 	 	 –	 –
Granted	 during	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 912,698 	 	 101,606	 At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 	 912,698	 	 101,606	 Granted	 during	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 4,703	 	 –	 Forfeited	 during	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 (33,492)	 –
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 883,909	 	 101,606	 Exercisable	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 Exercisable	 at	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 	 –	 	 –	 Date	 of	 grant	 	 	 	 	 7 	 February	 2007	 –	 Exercise	 price	 	 	 	 	 £1.898	 –
Date	 of	 grant	 	 	 	 	 14 	 November	 2006	 14 	 November	 2006
Exercise	 price	 	 	 	 	 £1.898	 –	 Fair	 value	 of	 awards	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 £0.506	 £0.840
Fair	 value	 of	 awards	 at	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 	 £0.520	 £0.888
The	 SAR	 award	 made	 on	 7	 February	 2007	 was	 a	 late	 grant	 of	 shares	 under	 the	 14	 November	 2006	 issue.	 Both	 awards	 have	 identical	 terms	 and	 fair	 values.
These	 fair	 values	 were	 calculated	 using	 the	 Black-Scholes	 option	 pricing	 model	 (modified	 by	 a	 Monte	 Carlo	 simulation	 for	 	 the	 Phantom	 LTIPs)	 to	 determine	 the	 likely	 impact	 of	 market	 related	 performance	 conditions.	 The	 inputs	 into	 the	 model	 were	 	 as	 follows:	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Phantom	 	 	 	 	 	 	 SARs	 LTIPs
At	 31	 December	 2007
Share	 price	 at	 date	 of	 valuation	 	 	 	 	 	 £2.090	 £2.090
Exercise	 price	 	 	 	 	 	 £1.898	 nil
Expected	 volatility	 	 	 	 	 	 23%	 24%
Expected	 life	 	 	 	 	 	 5	 Years	 3 	 Years
Risk-free	 rate	 	 	 	 	 	 4.7%	 4.7%
Expected	 dividend	 yield	 	 	 	 	 	 1.8%	 1.8%
At	 31	 December	 2006
Share	 price	 at	 date	 of	 valuation	 	 	 	 	 	 £1.938	 £1.938
Exercise	 price	 	 	 	 	 	 £1.898	 nil
Expected	 volatility	 	 	 	 	 	 25%	 25%
Expected	 life	 	 	 	 	 	 5 	 Years	 3 	 Years
Risk-free	 rate	 	 	 	 	 	 5.0%	 5.0%
Expected	 dividend	 yield	 	 	 	 	 	 1.8%	 1.8%
Expected	 volatility	 was	 determined	 by	 calculating	 the	 historical	 volatility	 of	 the	 Group’s	 share	 price	 over	 the	 previous	 three	 years.	 The	 expected	 life	 used	 in	 the	 model	 has	 been	 adjusted,	 based	 on	 management’s	 best	 estimate,	 for	 the	 effects	 of	 non-transferability,	 exercise	 restrictions	 and	 behavioural	 considerations.
Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 continued 67	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
12. Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement   
Cash flows from operating activities
£m	 	 	 	 	 Note	 2007	 2006
Profit	 after	 taxation	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 132.0	 148.3
Adjustments	 for:
Tax	 	 	 	 	 4	 47.3 	 50.8
Share	 of	 post-tax	 profits	 of	 joint	 ventures	 	 	 	 	 	 (5.8)	 (4.7)
Finance	 income	 	 	 	 	 3	 (49.0)	 (47.3)
Finance	 expense	 	 	 	 	 3	 41.3	 50.7
Depreciation	 	 	 	 	 15,16	 35.3	 36.0
Amortisation	 of	 intangible	 assets	 arising	 on	 acquisition	 including	 fair	 value	 adjustment	 	 13 	 14.8 	 9.6
Profit	 on	 sale	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 	 	 	 	 (1.5)	 (2.6)
Portfolio	 restructuring	 	 	 	 	 8	 9.5	 (14.5)
Contingent	 consideration	 received	 	 	 	 	 33	 (5.8)	 –
Costs	 of	 terminated	 acquisition	 	 	 	 	 	 3.9 	 –
Unrealised	 loss/(gain)	 on	 revaluation	 of	 currency	 instruments	 	 	 26	 5.7	 (10.8)
Pension	 contributions	 in	 excess	 of	 pension	 expenditure	 	 	 	 	 (5.5)	 (1.9)
Share-based	 payments	 	 	 	 	 	 11	 4.6	 3.0
Decrease	 in	 provisions	 	 	 	 	 	 (2.2)	 (16.8)
Operating	 cash	 flows	 before	 movements	 in	 working	 capital	 		 	 	 	 224.6 	 199.8
Increase	 in	 inventories	 	 	 	 	 	 (9.4)	 (20.6)
Increase	 in	 trade	 and	 other	 receivables	 	 	 	 	 	 (45.7)	 (16.5)
Increase	 in	 trade	 and	 other	 payables	 	 	 	 	 	 29.7	 29.7
Movements	 in	 working	 capital	 	 	 	 	 	 (25.4)	 (7.4)
Cash	 generated	 from	 operations	 	 	 	 	 	 199.2	 192.4
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net cash
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Increase	 in	 cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 in	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 69.4	 118.7
Net	 repayment	 of	 borrowings	 	 	 	 	 	 7.7	 3.3
Borrowings	 of	 undertakings	 sold	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 9.9
Exchange	 movements	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.1)	 37.3
Movement	 in	 net	 cash	 in	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 77.0	 169.2
Net	 cash/(debt)	 at	 beginning	 of	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 0.9	 (168.3)
Net	 cash	 at	 end	 of	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 77.9	 0.9 68	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
13. Intangible assets
£m	 	 	 	 	 Note	 2007	 2006
Goodwill	 	 	 	 	 14 	 381.8 	 381.8
Other	 intangible	 assets	 (as	 below)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 94.3	 100.8
Total	 intangible	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 476.1	 482.6
Movements	 in	 other	 intangible	 assets	 are	 as	 follows:	 	 	 	 Customer	 Technology	 Development	 	 	 £m	 	 	 lists	 and 	 software	 costs	 Other	 Total
Cost	 	 	 	 	 	 	 At	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 72.8	 25.7	 0.8	 27.5	 126.8
Additions	 –	 purchased	 	 	 –	 0.2	 –	 1.2	 1.4
Additions	 –	 internally	 generated	 	 	 –	 0.1	 0.2	 –	 0.3
Recognised	 on	 business	 combinations	 	 	 1.3	 7.0	 –	 0.3	 8.6
Disposed	 on	 sale	 of	 undertakings	 	 	 (0.9)	 (0.1)	 –	 (1.1)	 (2.1)
Foreign	 exchange	 adjustments	 	 	 	 (7.4)	 (4.3)	 –	 (3.1)	 (14.8)
Disposals	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 (0.1)	 (0.1)
Reclassifications	 	 	 7.5	 1.7	 –	 0.7	 9.9
At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 73.3	 30.3	 1.0	 25.4	 130.0
Additions	 –	 purchased	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 0.5	 0.5
Additions	 –	 internally	 generated	 	 	 –	 –	 0.2	 –	 0.2
Recognised	 on	 business	 combinations	 	 	 4.8	 2.6	 –	 0.9	 8.3
Foreign	 exchange	 adjustments	 	 	 	 (1.3)	 (0.3)	 –	 0.2	 (1.4)
Disposals	 	 	 –	 –	 (0.2)	 (0.3)	 (0.5)
Reclassifications	 	 	 –	 (0.6)	 –	 1.5	 0.9
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 76.8	 32.0	 1.0	 28.2	 138.0
Accumulated amortisation
At	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 3.2	 12.0	 0.4	 7.1	 22.7
Charge	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 9.1	 (4.9)	 –	 5.4	 9.6
Eliminated	 on	 disposal	 of	 undertakings	 	 	 (0.2)	 –	 –	 (0.2)	 (0.4)
Foreign	 exchange	 adjustments	 	 	 	 (0.7)	 (1.1)	 –	 (1.0)	 (2.8)
Disposals	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 (0.1)	 (0.1)
Reclassifications	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 0.2	 0.2
At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 11.4	 6.0	 0.4	 11.4	 29.2
Charge	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 7.1	 3.7	 0.1	 3.8	 14.7
Foreign	 exchange	 adjustments	 	 	 	 (0.2)	 –	 –	 0.2	 –
Disposals	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 (0.3)	 (0.3)
Reclassifications	 	 	 –	 (0.2)	 –	 0.3	 0.1
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 18.3	 9.5	 0.5	 15.4	 43.7
Carrying amount
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 58.5	 22.5	 0.5	 12.8	 94.3
At	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 61.9	 24.3	 0.6	 14.0	 100.8
Reclassifications	 include	 balances	 transferred	 from	 goodwill	 following	 a	 re-assessment	 of	 the	 fair	 values	 of	 acquired	 intangible	 assets.
Values	 ascribed	 to	 customer	 lists	 represent	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 acquired	 customer	 lists,	 contracts	 and	 other	 related	 customer	 relationships,	 both	 contractual	 and	 non-contractual,	 held	 by	 the	 acquired	 company	 at	 time	 of	 entry	 into	 the	 Group.
Values	 ascribed	 to	 technology	 and	 software	 represent	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 acquired	 trade	 secrets	 and	 processes,	 patented	 and	 unpatented	 technology	 and	 know	 how	 held	 by	 the	 acquired	 company	 at	 time	 of	 entry	 into	 the	 Group.	 This	 category	 also	 includes	 the	 purchase	 of	 technology	 and	 software	 rights	 and	 licences,	 where	 it	 is	 appropriate	 to	 recognise	 such	 items	 as	 assets.
Values	 ascribed	 to	 development	 costs	 represent	 the	 directly	 attributable	 costs	 of	 internally	 generated	 development	 knowledge	 from	 the	 point	 at	 which	 an	 individual	 project	 meets	 the	 requirements	 for	 capitalisation	 until	 it	 is	 available	 for	 utilisation	 in	 the	 business.	 Values	 ascribed	 to	 other	 intangible	 assets	 represent	 purchased	 and	 acquired	 patents,	 licences	 and	 trademarks	 and	 order	 backlog.	 All	 of	 these	 assets	 are	 recognised	 at	 fair	 value	 and	 are	 amortised	 over	 their	 estimated	 useful	 lives.	 Fair	 values	 of	 acquired	 intangible	 assets	 have	 been	 assessed	 by	 reference	 to	 the	 future	 estimated	 cash	 flows	 arising	 from	 the	 application	 of	 assets,	 discounted	 at	 a	 post-tax	 rate	 of	 7.6%	 (2006:	 7.5%)	 to	 present	 value.
Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 continued 69	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
14. Goodwill
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Total	 Cost
At	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 424.0
Arising	 on	 business	 combinations	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13.5
Resulting	 from	 movements	 in	 contingent	 consideration	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.2)
Eliminated	 on	 disposal	 of	 undertakings	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (28.7)
Foreign	 exchange	 adjustments	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (17.4)
Reclassification	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (9.4)
At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 381.8
Arising	 on	 business	 combinations	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.6
Resulting	 from	 movements	 in	 contingent	 consideration	 	 	 	 	 	 (1.0)
Eliminated	 on	 closure	 of	 operation	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.3)
Foreign	 exchange	 adjustments	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.5
Reclassification	 to	 intangible	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.8)
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 381.8
Accumulated impairment losses
At	 1	 January	 2006	 and	 2007,	 and	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 –
Carrying amount	 	 	 	 	 	 At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 381.8
At	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 381.8
Goodwill	 acquired	 in	 a	 business	 combination	 is	 allocated,	 at	 acquisition,	 to	 the	 cash	 generating	 units	 (CGUs)	 that	 are	 expected	 to	 benefit	 from	 that	 business	 combination.	 The	 carrying	 amount	 of	 goodwill	 arising	 on	 acquisitions	 during	 2007	 has	 been	 allocated	 as	 follows:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Total	 Patriot	 Antenna	 Systems	 –	 Cobham	 Avionics	 &	 Surveillance	 division	 	 	 	 	 0.5
ADDE	 –	 Cobham	 Mission	 Systems	 division	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.1
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.6
The	 Group	 tests	 goodwill	 annually	 for	 impairment	 or	 more	 frequently	 if	 there	 are	 indications	 that	 goodwill	 might	 be	 impaired.
The	 recoverable	 amounts	 of	 the	 CGUs	 are	 determined	 from	 value	 in	 use	 calculations.	 The	 key	 assumptions	 for	 the	 value	 in	 use	 calculations	 are	 those	 regarding	 the	 discount	 rates,	 growth	 rates	 and	 expected	 changes	 to	 selling	 prices	 and	 direct	 costs	 during	 the	 period	 for	 which	 management	 have	 detailed	 plans.	 Management	 estimates	 discount	 rates	 using	 pre-tax	 rates	 that	 reflect	 current	 market	 assessments	 of	 the	 time	 value	 of	 money	 and	 the	 risks	 specific	 to	 the	 CGU	 being	 measured.	 The	 growth	 rates	 	 are	 based	 on	 GDP	 of	 the	 primary	 market	 for	 the	 CGU,	 adjusted	 to	 recognise	 an	 estimate	 of	 the	 historic	 and	 projected	 premium	 associated	 with	 the	 high	 technological	 content	 associated	 with	 the	 business.	 Changes	 in	 selling	 prices	 and	 direct	 costs	 are	 based	 on	 past	 practices	 and	 expectations	 of	 future	 changes	 in	 the	 market.	 The	 Group	 prepares	 cash	 flow	 forecasts	 derived	 from	 the	 most	 recent	 financial	 budgets	 approved	 by	 management	 for	 the	 coming	 year	 and	 extrapolates	 cash	 flows	 after	 that	 period	 based	 on	 growth	 rates	 as	 described	 above.	 Where	 these	 projections	 are	 not	 appropriate	 to	 the	 prospects	 of	 particular	 businesses,	 longer-term	 financial	 plans	 have	 been	 prepared.
The	 pre-tax	 rate	 used	 to	 discount	 the	 forecast	 cash	 flows	 is	 10.6%	 (2006:	 10.5%).	 Following	 detailed	 review,	 no	 impairment	 losses	 have	 been	 recognised	 in	 the	 period	 and	 no	 prior	 impairment	 losses	 reversed.
The	 goodwill	 allocated	 to	 two	 CGUs	 is	 considered	 to	 be	 individually	 significant.	 REMEC	 Defense	 and	 Space	 Inc,	 a	 wholly	 owned	 subsidiary	 of	 the	 Group,	 has	 £42.2m	 of	 goodwill	 allocated	 to	 it	 and	 no	 other	 intangible	 assets	 with	 indefinite	 useful	 lives.	 Conax	 Florida	 Corporation	 has	 £43.4m	 of	 goodwill	 and	 no	 other	 intangible	 assets	 with	 indefinite	 useful	 lives.	 The	 recoverable	 amount	 associated	 with	 this	 goodwill	 has	 been	 determined	 on	 a	 value	 in	 use	 basis.	 Key	 assumptions	 are	 as	 follows:
		 The	 authorised	 plans	 for	 the	 companies	 which	 have	 been	 extrapolated	 in	 perpetuity	 using	 a	 growth	 rate	 of	 4.8%	 and	 discounted	 to	 a	 present	 value	 using	 the	 Group	 assumption	 of	 10.6%.	 Growth	 rate	 is	 based	 on	 US	 GDP	 adjusted	 to	 reflect	 	 a	 premium	 for	 the	 nature	 of	 the	 CGU’s	 business.
		 Sensitivity	 analysis	 has	 determined	 that	 the	 discount	 rate	 of	 10.6%	 is	 the	 most	 influential	 assumption	 on	 the	 outcome	 of	 the	 recoverable	 amount	 calculation.	 The	 recoverable	 amount	 of	 Remec	 and	 Conax	 exceed	 the	 total	 carrying	 value	 of	 assets	 for	 	 the	 CGU	 by	 £325.6m	 and	 £115.0m	 respectively;	 the	 discount	 rate	 would	 need	 to	 increase	 to	 19.1%	 for	 Remec	 and	 21.6%	 	 for	 Conax	 in	 order	 for	 the	 carrying	 value	 to	 be	 impaired.
The	 remainder	 of	 the	 goodwill	 is	 allocated	 to	 various	 CGUs	 across	 the	 Group,	 no	 individual	 amounts	 other	 than	 those	 disclosed	 above	 are	 considered	 individually	 significant. 70	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
15. Property, plant and equipment
	 	 	 	 Plant 	 and	 	 Payments	 	 	 	 	 Land 	 and	 Buildings	 machinery	 Fixtures	 on 	 account	 	 	 	 	 	 (including	 fittings	 and 	 assets	 	 	 Long	 Short	 aircraft 	 &	 tools 	 and	 under 	 	 	 £m	 Freehold	 leases	 leases	 vehicles)	 equipment	 construction	 Total
Cost	 	 	 	 	 	 	 At	 1	 January	 2006	 73.3	 19.2	 4.5	 348.4	 56.7	 1.5	 503.6
Additions	 3.0	 3.0	 0.3	 40.2	 4.1	 2.3	 52.9
Acquired	 with	 business	 combinations	 –	 –	 –	 1.0	 0.1	 –	 1.1
Disposal	 of	 undertakings	 (2.4)	 –	 (0.1)	 (15.0)	 (2.7)	 (0.4)	 (20.6)
Disposals	 (11.9)	 –	 –	 (10.0)	 (5.8)	 –	 (27.7)
Foreign	 exchange	 adjustments	 (2.9)	 (0.5)	 (0.5)	 (12.2)	 (2.9)	 (0.2)	 (19.2)
Reclassifications	 (3.1)	 (0.2)	 –	 (2.2)	 1.3	 (1.0)	 (5.2)
At	 1	 January	 2007	 56.0	 21.5	 4.2	 350.2	 50.8	 2.2	 484.9
Additions	 1.4	 0.7	 0.2	 57.4	 7.1	 0.9	 67.7
Acquired	 with	 business	 combinations	 0.9	 –	 –	 1.3	 0.3	 0.1	 2.6
Disposals	 (0.5)	 (0.1)	 (0.2)	 (34.2)	 (5.0)	 –	 (40.0)
Foreign	 exchange	 adjustments	 0.9	 (0.1)	 (0.1)	 12.6	 1.3	 –	 14.6
Reclassifications	 (1.1)	 1.5	 –	 0.6	 (0.3)	 (1.7)	 (1.0)
At	 31	 December	 2007	 57.6	 23.5	 4.1	 387.9	 54.2	 1.5	 528.8
Accumulated depreciation	 	 	 	 	 	 	 At	 1	 January	 2006	 16.3	 4.1	 1.8	 235.0	 43.6	 –	 300.8
Depreciation	 charge	 for	 the	 year	 1.8	 0.6	 0.4	 28.5	 4.7	 –	 36.0
Eliminated	 on	 disposal	 of	 undertakings	 (0.7)	 –	 –	 (9.1)	 (2.5)	 –	 (12.3)
Eliminated	 on	 disposals	 (0.3)	 –	 –	 (9.2)	 (5.6)	 –	 (15.1)
Foreign	 exchange	 adjustments	 (0.7)	 (0.2)	 (0.2)	 (6.6)	 (2.2)	 –	 (9.9)
Reclassifications	 (1.5)	 0.4	 (0.1)	 (2.3)	 1.3	 –	 (2.2)
At	 1	 January	 2007	 14.9	 4.9	 1.9	 236.3	 39.3	 –	 297.3
Depreciation	 charge	 for	 the	 year	 1.8	 0.7	 0.4	 27.5	 4.7	 –	 35.1
Eliminated	 on	 disposals	 (0.2)	 –	 (0.2)	 (10.6)	 (4.7)	 –	 (15.7)
Foreign	 exchange	 adjustments	 0.2	 –	 –	 7.2	 0.9	 –	 8.3
At	 31	 December	 2007	 16.7	 5.6	 2.1	 260.4	 40.2	 –	 325.0
Carrying amount	 	 	 	 	 	 	 At	 31	 December	 2007	 40.9	 17.9	 2.0	 127.5	 14.0	 1.5	 203.8
At	 31	 December	 2006	 41.1	 16.6	 2.3	 113.9	 11.5	 2.2	 187.6
Reclassifications	 in	 2007	 and	 2006	 include	 transfers	 to	 investment	 properties.
The	 carrying	 amount	 of	 the	 Group’s	 plant	 and	 machinery	 includes	 an	 amount	 of	 £0.9m	 (2006:	 £0.8m)	 in	 respect	 of	 assets	 held	 under	 finance	 leases.	 These	 assets	 are	 held	 as	 security	 against	 the	 finance	 lease	 liabilities.	 16. Investment properties 
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Total
Cost	 	 	 	 	 	 	 At	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4.1
Reclassifications	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3.5
At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7.6
Reclassifications	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.0
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8.6
Accumulated depreciation	 	 	 	 	 	 	 At	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.1
Reclassifications	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.9
Depreciation	 charge	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.2
At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.2
Depreciation	 charge	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.2
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.4
Carrying amount	 	 	 	 	 	 	 At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7.2
At	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6.4
Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 continued 71	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
16. Investment properties (continued)
Following	 reorganisation	 and	 consolidation	 of	 property	 utilisation	 at	 the	 Group’s	 research	 and	 development	 facilities	 in	 Leatherhead,	 UK,	 a	 portion	 of	 the	 site	 has	 been	 reclassified	 as	 investment	 property.
All	 of	 the	 Group’s	 investment	 properties	 are	 held	 under	 freehold	 interests	 and	 are	 valued	 under	 the	 cost	 model.
Property	 rental	 income	 earned	 by	 the	 Group	 from	 its	 investment	 properties	 amounted	 to	 £1.3m	 (2006:	 £1.0m),	 which	 is	 net	 of	 all	 direct	 costs	 associated	 with	 the	 leasing	 of	 the	 property,	 save	 for	 depreciation.	 The	 buildings	 are	 leased	 to	 commercial	 users	 on	 operating	 leases	 with	 terms	 of	 between	 3	 and	 25	 years,	 commencing	 in	 1998,	 2004	 and	 2006.	 The	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 investment	 properties	 has	 been	 assessed	 to	 be	 £13.8m	 (2006:	 £12.1m).	 For	 2007	 this	 is	 based	 on	 estimated	 market	 prices	 provided	 by	 external	 valuers,	 Vail	 Williams	 LLP,	 as	 at	 31	 December	 2007.	 For	 2006	 the	 fair	 value	 was	 based	 on	 estimated	 market	 prices	 provided	 by	 the	 agents	 who	 managed	 the	 properties	 on	 the	 Group’s	 behalf.	 17. Investments in joint ventures
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Group’s	 share	 of	 net	 assets	 of	 joint	 ventures	 (as	 below)	 	 	 	 	 18.8	 15.7
The	 Group	 has	 the	 following	 interests	 in	 joint	 ventures	 within	 the	 Aviation	 Services	 division:
a)	 45%	 of	 the	 voting	 share	 capital	 in	 Aviation	 Défense	 Service	 SA,	 a	 company	 incorporated	 in	 France.
b)	 50%	 of	 the	 voting	 share	 capital	 in	 FB	 Heliservices	 Limited,	 a	 company	 incorporated	 in	 England.
c)	 50%	 of	 the	 voting	 share	 capital	 in	 FBS	 Limited,	 a	 company	 incorporated	 in	 England.
d)	 50%	 of	 the	 voting	 share	 capital	 in	 FB	 Leasing	 Limited,	 a	 company	 incorporated	 in	 England.
Notwithstanding	 the	 fact	 that	 the	 holding	 is	 45%,	 governance	 structures	 for	 Aviation	 Défense	 Service	 SA	 are	 such	 that	 the	 Group	 has	 joint	 control	 with	 its	 partner	 and	 therefore	 the	 investment	 is	 treated	 as	 a	 joint	 venture.
The	 share	 of	 the	 balance	 sheets	 and	 income	 statements	 of	 the	 joint	 ventures	 which	 has	 been	 included	 in	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 is	 as	 follows:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Current	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 25.7	 20.3
Non-current	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 39.0	 42.7
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 64.7	 63.0
Current	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 (13.7)	 (12.8)
Non-current	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 (32.2)	 (34.5)
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (45.9)	 (47.3)
Net	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 18.8	 15.7
Income	 	 	 	 	 	 35.7	 35.2
Expenses	 	 	 	 	 	 (28.0)	 (28.4)
18. Inventories
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Raw	 materials	 and	 consumables	 	 	 	 	 	 80.1	 80.7
Work	 in	 progress	 	 	 	 	 	 111.2	 96.1
Finished	 goods	 and	 goods	 for	 resale	 	 	 	 	 	 18.4	 19.0
Allowance	 for	 obsolescence	 	 	 	 	 	 (32.5)	 (29.7)
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 177.2	 166.1
Payments	 on	 account	 	 	 	 	 	 (7.1)	 (5.9)
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 170.1	 160.2
Included	 in	 inventories	 above	 is	 £0.6m	 (2006:	 £nil)	 held	 at	 fair	 value	 less	 costs	 to	 sell.
During	 the	 year	 £6.3m	 (2006:	 £7.1m)	 was	 provided,	 £4.3m	 (2006:	 £6.6m)	 was	 utilised	 and	 £0.7m	 (2006:	 £1.2m)	 of	 the	 allowance	 for	 obsolescence	 was	 reversed.	 This	 allowance	 is	 reviewed	 by	 the	 Directors	 on	 a	 regular	 basis	 and	 further	 amounts	 are	 provided	 or	 released	 as	 considered	 necessary.	 The	 amounts	 are	 generally	 determined	 based	 on	 factors	 which	 include	 ageing	 and	 known	 demand.	 Subsequent	 events	 may	 give	 rise	 to	 these	 estimates	 being	 revised	 and,	 consequently,	 to	 reversal	 of	 amounts	 previously	 provided.	 £8.0m	 (2006:	 £0.8m)	 of	 inventory	 was	 also	 written	 off	 directly	 to	 the	 income	 statement.
Inventory	 will	 be	 realised	 within	 the	 normal	 operating	 cycle	 of	 the	 businesses,	 which	 in	 some	 cases	 may	 be	 more	 than	 12	 months.	 72	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
19. Trade and other receivables
19a. Current
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Trade	 receivables	 (net	 of	 provision	 for	 impairment)	 	 	 	 	 189.5	 148.3
Amounts	 recoverable	 on	 contracts	 	 	 	 	 	 5.8	 4.0
Other	 receivables	 	 	 	 	 	 11.7	 8.1
Prepayments	 and	 accrued	 income	 	 	 	 	 	 29.6	 22.2
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 236.6 	 182.6
19b. Non-current
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Trade	 receivables	 (net	 of	 provision	 for	 impairment)	 	 	 	 	 –	 0.1
Amounts	 recoverable	 on	 contracts	 	 	 	 	 	 0.1	 0.1
Other	 receivables	 	 	 	 	 	 10.6	 9.0
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10.7	 9.2
Other	 receivables	 includes	 £9.4m	 (2006:	 £8.0m)	 which	 will	 be	 received	 in	 2012.
19c. Impairment of trade receivables
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Trade	 receivables	 	 	 	 	 	 190.7	 150.1
Provision	 for	 impairment	 of	 trade	 receivables	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (1.2)	 (1.8)
Net	 trade	 receivables	 	 	 	 	 	 189.5	 148.3
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Included	 in	 the	 provision	 for	 impairment	 of	 trade	 receivables	 are	 specific	 trade	 receivables	 and	 amounts	 owed	 by	 specific	 customers	 where	 recovery	 of	 the	 balance	 due	 is	 considered	 by	 the	 management	 to	 be	 less	 than	 certain.	 All	 trade	 receivables	 which	 are	 more	 than	 12	 months	 overdue	 are	 provided	 for	 based	 on	 estimated	 irrecoverable	 amounts	 from	 the	 sale	 of	 goods	 and	 services,	 determined	 by	 reference	 to	 past	 default	 experience.	 Amounts	 which	 are	 less	 than	 12	 months	 overdue	 are	 provided	 where	 recovery	 of	 the	 balance	 due	 is	 considered	 to	 be	 in	 doubt.
Movements	 in	 the	 provision	 for	 impaired	 trade	 receivables	 during	 the	 year	 are	 as	 follows:	 £m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
At	 1	 January	 	 	 	 	 	 1.8	 2.1
Additional	 provision	 	 	 	 	 	 0.5	 0.5
Utilised	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.5)	 (0.5)
Unused	 amounts	 reversed	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.6) 	 (0.1)
Disposed	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (0.1)
Foreign	 exchange	 movements	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (0.1)
At	 31	 December	 	 	 	 	 	 1.2	 1.8
The	 creation	 and	 reversal	 of	 the	 provision	 for	 impaired	 trade	 receivables	 have	 been	 included	 in	 administrative	 expenses	 in	 the	 income	 statement.
The	 total	 amounts	 and	 ageing	 of	 impaired	 trade	 receivables,	 against	 which	 £1.2m	 (2006:	 £1.8m)	 has	 been	 provided,	 	 are	 as	 follows:	 £m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Due	 at	 31	 December	 	 	 	 	 	 0.6	 0.5
1	 month	 overdue	 	 	 	 	 	 0.5	 0.2
2	 months	 overdue	 	 	 	 	 	 0.3	 0.2
3	 or	 more	 months	 overdue	 	 	 	 	 	 1.3	 1.3
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2.7	 2.2
Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 continued 73	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
19. Trade and other receivables (continued)
19c. Impairment of trade receivables (continued)
The	 following	 trade	 receivables	 are	 past	 due	 but	 not	 considered	 to	 be	 impaired	 as	 there	 is	 no	 recent	 history	 of	 default	 by	 	 these	 customers:	 £m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Due	 at	 31	 December	 	 	 	 	 	 22.8	 19.7
1	 month	 overdue	 	 	 	 	 	 7.8	 6.0
2	 months	 overdue	 	 	 	 	 	 2.9	 3.3
3	 or	 more	 months	 overdue	 	 	 	 	 	 4.1	 5.4
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 37.6	 34.4
Based	 on	 previous	 experience,	 the	 Group	 believes	 that	 no	 additional	 impairment	 provision	 is	 necessary	 in	 respect	 of	 trade	 receivables	 which	 are	 not	 overdue.	 The	 credit	 quality	 of	 the	 Group’s	 trade	 receivables	 is	 considered	 by	 management	 to	 be	 very	 good	 as	 a	 high	 proportion	 of	 customers	 are	 government	 agencies	 or	 large	 global	 companies	 with	 whom	 the	 Group	 trades	 on	 a	 long-term	 basis.	 This	 is	 further	 evidenced	 by	 the	 low	 rates	 of	 impairments	 provided	 and	 amounts	 written	 off.	 Information	 concerning	 credit	 risk	 is	 shown	 in	 note	 28.	 Other	 classes	 of	 financial	 assets	 within	 trade	 and	 other	 receivables	 do	 not	 include	 any	 impaired	 assets.	 	 19d. Currency analysis
The	 carrying	 amounts	 of	 trade	 and	 other	 receivables	 are	 denominated	 in	 the	 following	 currencies:	 £m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Sterling	 	 	 	 	 	 80.1	 54.9
US	 dollars	 	 	 	 	 	 106.7	 87.1
Australian	 dollars	 	 	 	 	 	 13.5	 10.1
Euros	 	 	 	 	 	 	 40.9	 33.6
Other	 currencies	 	 	 	 	 	 6.1	 6.1
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 247.3	 191.8
20. Cash and cash equivalents
Bank	 balances	 and	 cash	 comprise	 cash	 held	 by	 the	 Group	 and	 short-term	 bank	 deposits	 with	 an	 original	 maturity	 of	 three	 months	 or	 less.	 The	 carrying	 amount	 of	 these	 assets	 approximates	 to	 their	 fair	 value.
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 include	 the	 following	 for	 the	 purposes	 of	 the	 cash	 flow	 statement:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 per	 balance	 sheet	 	 	 	 	 	 444.5	 364.3
Bank	 overdrafts	 	 	 	 	 	 (12.5)	 (3.9)
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 per	 cash	 flow	 statement	 	 	 	 	 432.0	 360.4
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 include	 term	 deposits	 in	 Australia	 of	 AUS$10.0m	 (£4.4m,	 2006:	 £4.1m)	 and	 US$1.0m	 (£0.5m,	 2006:	 £0.5m).	 These	 term	 deposits	 currently	 satisfy	 a	 requirement	 to	 provide	 security	 over	 the	 residual	 value	 of	 leased	 assets	 under	 	 an	 agreement	 which	 expires	 in	 2020.
21. Trade and other payables
21a. Current liabilities
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Payments	 received	 on	 account	 	 	 	 	 	 26.9	 25.1
Trade	 payables	 	 	 	 	 	 86.5	 77.2
Bills	 of	 exchange	 payable	 	 	 	 	 	 2.5	 2.8
Payroll	 and	 other	 taxes	 including	 social	 security	 	 	 	 	 11.0	 10.9
Accruals	 and	 deferred	 income	 	 	 	 	 	 75.5	 50.7
Other	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 18.2	 15.9
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 220.6	 182.6
21b. Non-current liabilities
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Payments	 received	 on	 account	 	 	 	 	 	 0.3	 –
Accruals	 and	 deferred	 income	 	 	 	 	 	 3.2	 3.1
Other	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 7.1	 4.7
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10.6	 7.8 74	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
22. Provisions
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Current	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 29.5	 38.0
Non-current	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 30.3	 22.9
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 59.8	 60.9
Movements	 in	 provisions	 during	 the	 year	 are	 as	 follows:
	 	 	 	 Contract	 Aircraft	
	 	 Contingent	 Warranty	 loss	 maintenance	 	 	 £m	 	 consideration	 claims	 provisions	 provisions	 Other	 Total
At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 14.8	 3.8	 5.4	 7.5	 29.4	 60.9
Reclassification	 from	 accruals	 	 –	 0.3	 (0.3)	 –	 1.6	 1.6
Additional	 provisions	 in	 the	 year	 	 3.1	 2.7	 2.7	 2.5	 4.0	 15.0
Created	 on	 closure	 of	 operation	 	 –	 –	 –	 –	 0.1	 0.1
Utilisation	 of	 provisions	 	 (4.3)	 (1.6)	 (3.0)	 (1.2)	 (3.9)	 (14.0)
Unused	 amounts	 reversed	 in	 the	 year	 	 –	 (0.8)	 (0.4)	 (1.6)	 (2.4)	 (5.2)
Foreign	 exchange	 adjustments	 	 –	 0.1	 0.2	 0.7	 0.4	 1.4
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 13.6	 4.5	 4.6	 7.9	 29.2	 59.8
Closing	 balances	 are	 analysed	 as:
Current	 liabilities	 	 1.5	 4.0	 3.6	 2.3	 18.1	 29.5
Non-current	 liabilities	 	 12.1	 0.5	 1.0	 5.6	 11.1	 30.3
	 	 	 13.6	 4.5	 4.6	 7.9	 29.2	 59.8
Contingent consideration
Contingent	 consideration	 has	 been	 provided	 for	 where	 it	 is	 considered	 probable	 that	 the	 conditions	 applicable	 to	 the	 payment	 	 of	 contingent	 consideration	 in	 respect	 of	 acquisitions	 made	 by	 the	 Group	 in	 current	 and	 previous	 years	 will	 be	 met.	 The	 amount	 provided	 is	 therefore	 the	 amount	 considered	 likely	 to	 be	 payable	 in	 the	 event	 of	 these	 conditions	 being	 met.	 Arrangements	 of	 this	 nature	 vary,	 but	 may	 typically	 extend	 for	 up	 to	 five	 years	 and	 are	 discounted	 where	 payable	 after	 two	 years.	 The	 provision	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 is	 stated	 after	 a	 discount	 of	 £0.5m	 (2006:	 £0.9m)	 and	 the	 unwinding	 of	 the	 discount	 in	 the	 year	 resulted	 in	 	 a	 finance	 charge	 of	 £0.4m	 (2006:	 £0.2m).
Warranty claims
The	 warranty	 provision	 represents	 management’s	 best	 estimate	 of	 the	 Group’s	 liability	 under	 warranties	 granted	 on	 products	 sold,	 based	 on	 past	 experience	 and	 industry	 averages	 for	 defective	 products.	 It	 is	 anticipated	 that	 most	 of	 these	 costs	 will	 be	 incurred	 in	 the	 next	 two	 financial	 years.
Contract loss provisions
Contract	 loss	 provisions	 represent	 management’s	 best	 estimate	 of	 the	 amount	 by	 which	 the	 expected	 benefits	 from	 certain	 specific	 contracts	 are	 lower	 than	 the	 unavoidable	 cost	 of	 meeting	 its	 obligations	 under	 those	 contracts.	 The	 time	 frame	 within	 which	 such	 provisions	 will	 unwind	 varies	 by	 contract,	 but	 is	 generally	 within	 one	 year.	 Aircraft maintenance provisions
Aircraft	 maintenance	 provisions	 are	 established	 in	 respect	 of	 significant	 periodic	 maintenance	 costs,	 where	 maintenance	 activity	 is	 required	 on	 leased	 operational	 aircraft	 or	 engines	 on	 a	 cycle	 greater	 than	 12	 months.	 Costs	 are	 charged	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 on	 the	 basis	 of	 utilisation	 of	 the	 aircraft	 and	 are	 credited	 to	 the	 provision.	 The	 provision	 is	 then	 utilised	 by	 absorbing	 the	 actual	 costs	 incurred	 in	 carrying	 out	 the	 maintenance	 activity.	 Maintenance	 carried	 out	 on	 a	 cycle	 of	 12	 months	 or	 less	 is	 charged	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 as	 incurred.	 When	 aircraft	 are	 leased,	 it	 is	 customary	 for	 the	 contract	 to	 contain	 specific	 conditions	 regarding	 the	 state	 of	 the	 aircraft	 on	 its	 return	 to	 the	 lessor	 at	 the	 end	 of	 the	 lease.	 These	 conditions	 may	 relate	 to	 the	 number	 of	 operational	 hours	 to	 be	 available	 before	 a	 major	 maintenance	 check,	 the	 physical	 configuration	 of	 the	 aircraft	 or	 direct	 costs	 to	 be	 incurred	 by	 the	 lessee	 in	 the	 physical	 return	 of	 the	 aircraft	 to	 the	 lessor.	 The	 estimated	 cost	 associated	 with	 fulfilling	 these	 requirements	 is	 charged	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 on	 an	 aircraft	 utilisation	 basis.	 The	 provision	 is	 utilised	 on	 actual	 return	 of	 the	 aircraft	 or	 on	 incurring	 the	 expenditure	 required	 to	 return	 the	 aircraft	 to	 the	 state	 of	 maintenance	 required	 by	 the	 lease	 before	 return	 of	 the	 aircraft	 to	 the	 lessor.	 Other provisions
Other	 provisions	 include	 provisions	 recognised	 on	 warranties	 and	 indemnities	 given	 on	 the	 disposals	 of	 the	 Countermeasures	 operations	 and	 the	 Fluid	 and	 Air	 group	 in	 2005.	 All	 amounts	 have	 been	 determined	 based	 on	 the	 Directors’	 current	 estimates	 of	 likely	 outcomes.	 Provisions	 relating	 to	 the	 Countermeasures	 and	 Fluid	 and	 Air	 disposals	 are	 likely	 to	 unwind	 over	 a	 period	 of	 more	 than	 one	 year	 but,	 due	 to	 the	 uncertainty	 over	 the	 timing	 and	 amounts,	 have	 not	 been	 discounted.	 All	 other	 items	 are	 likely	 to	 be	 resolved	 within	 two	 years.	 Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 continued 75	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
23. Deferred tax
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Deferred	 tax	 assets	 	 	 	 	 	 (8.3)	 (6.9)
Deferred	 tax	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 22.5	 25.6
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14.2	 18.7
The	 following	 are	 the	 major	 deferred	 tax	 liabilities	 and	 assets	 recognised	 by	 the	 Group,	 and	 the	 movements	 thereon:
	 	 	 	 Accelerated	 Retirement	 	 	 	 	 	 	 tax	 benefit	 	 	 £m	 	 	 	 depreciation	 obligations	 Other	 Total
At	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 	 8.6	 (24.3)	 17.7	 2.0
Credit	 to	 income	 statement	 	 	 	 0.1	 5.5	 1.2	 6.8
Credit/(charge)	 to	 reserves	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 –	 9.8	 (1.4)	 8.4
Acquired	 with	 business	 combinations	 	 	 	 –	 –	 2.3	 2.3
Disposed	 on	 sale	 of	 undertakings	 	 	 	 (0.1)	 –	 (0.7)	 (0.8)
Foreign	 exchange	 adjustments	 	 	 	 –	 0.1	 (0.1)	 –
At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 8.6	 (8.9)	 19.0	 18.7
Credit/(charge)	 to	 income	 statement	 	 	 	 (1.6)	 5.0	 (0.1)	 3.3
Charge	 to	 reserves	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 –	 (6.5)	 (0.8)	 (7.3)
Foreign	 exchange	 adjustments	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 (0.5)	 (0.5)
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 7.0	 (10.4)	 17.6	 14.2
Other	 deferred	 tax	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 shown	 above	 include	 balances	 arising	 from	 temporary	 differences	 in	 relation	 to	 provisions,	 share-based	 payments,	 intangible	 assets,	 goodwill	 and	 derivative	 financial	 instruments.	 The	 other	 charge	 to	 reserves	 relates	 to	 deferred	 tax	 provided	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 change	 in	 the	 fair	 values	 of	 cash	 flow	 hedging	 derivatives	 and	 share-based	 payments.
Certain	 deferred	 tax	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 have	 been	 offset	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 Group’s	 accounting	 policy.	 Deferred	 tax	 balances	 (after	 offset)	 for	 balance	 sheet	 purposes	 are	 analysed	 as	 follows:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Deferred	 tax	 liabilities	 fall	 due	 as	 follows:	 	 	 	 	 	 Within	 one	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 2.7	 3.1
After	 one	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 19.8	 22.5
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 22.5	 25.6
Deferred	 tax	 assets	 are	 recoverable	 as	 follows:	 Within	 one	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 (4.0) 	 (2.1)
After	 one	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 (4.3)	 (4.8)
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (8.3)	 (6.9)
Without	 taking	 into	 consideration	 the	 offsetting	 of	 balances,	 deferred	 tax	 balances	 are	 as	 follows:
	 	 	 	 Accelerated	 Retirement	 	 	 	 	 	 	 tax	 benefit	 £m	 	 	 	 depreciation	 obligations	 Other	 Total
Deferred	 tax	 assets	 	 	 	 (0.4)	 (10.4)	 (25.6)	 (36.4)
Deferred	 tax	 liabilities	 	 	 	 7.4	 –	 43.2	 50.6
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 7.0	 (10.4)	 17.6	 14.2
Deferred	 tax	 assets	 	 	 	 (1.2)	 (8.9)	 (14.8)	 (24.9)
Deferred	 tax	 liabilities	 	 	 	 9.8	 –	 33.8	 43.6
At	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 8.6	 (8.9)	 19.0	 18.7
At	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date,	 the	 Group	 has	 unused	 capital	 losses	 of	 £72.0m	 (2006:	 £72.0m)	 potentially	 available	 for	 offset	 against	 future	 profits	 in	 certain	 circumstances.		 No	 deferred	 tax	 asset	 has	 been	 recognised	 in	 respect	 of	 this	 amount	 because	 of	 the	 unpredictability	 of	 future	 qualifying	 profit	 streams.	 These	 losses	 can	 be	 carried	 forward	 indefinitely.
At	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date,	 the	 aggregate	 amount	 of	 temporary	 differences	 associated	 with	 undistributed	 earnings	 of	 subsidiaries	 and	 joint	 ventures	 for	 which	 deferred	 tax	 liabilities	 have	 not	 been	 recognised	 is	 £305.4m	 (2006:	 £204.8m).	 No	 liability	 has	 been	 recognised	 in	 respect	 of	 these	 differences	 because	 the	 Group	 is	 in	 a	 position	 to	 control	 the	 timing	 of	 the	 reversal	 of	 the	 temporary	 differences	 and	 it	 is	 probable	 that	 such	 differences	 will	 not	 reverse	 in	 the	 foreseeable	 future.
The	 Group’s	 share	 of	 the	 tax	 on	 temporary	 differences	 arising	 in	 connection	 with	 interests	 in	 joint	 ventures	 was	 £4.8m	 (2006:	 £5.5m). 76	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
24. Borrowings
£m	 	 	 	 	 Note	 2007	 2006
Current
Bank	 loans	 and	 overdrafts	 	 	 	 	 	 239.0	 227.8
Loan	 notes	 	 	 	 	 	 1.3	 1.2
Senior	 notes	 	 	 	 	 	 2.5	 1.9
Other	 borrowings	 	 	 	 	 	 0.1	 0.1
Finance	 leases	 	 	 	 	 25	 0.2	 0.2
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 243.1	 231.2
Non-current
Bank	 loans	 	 	 	 	 	 0.4	 8.8
Loan	 notes	 	 	 	 	 	 8.0	 7.4
Senior	 notes	 	 	 	 	 	 114.3	 115.2
Preference	 shares	 	 	 	 	 29	 –	 –
Finance	 leases	 	 	 	 	 25 	 0.8 	 0.8
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 123.5	 132.2
Total	 borrowings	 	 	 	 	 	 366.6	 363.4
The	 carrying	 amounts	 of	 the	 Group’s	 borrowings	 are	 denominated	 in	 the	 following	 currencies:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Sterling	 	 	 	 	 	 9.1	 8.9
US	 dollars	 	 	 	 	 	 259.1 	 280.5
Australian	 dollars	 	 	 	 	 	 50.4	 28.7
Euros	 	 	 	 	 	 47.8	 44.7
Other	 currencies	 	 	 	 	 	 0.2	 0.6
Total	 	 	 	 	 	 366.6	 363.4
The	 average	 effective	 interest	 rates	 paid,	 after	 taking	 into	 account	 the	 impacts	 of	 hedging,	 were	 as	 follows:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Bank	 overdrafts	 	 	 	 	 	 5.04%	 4.99%
Bank	 loans	 	 	 	 	 	 4.90%	 4.62%
Loan	 notes	 	 	 	 	 	 4.49%	 4.49%
Senior	 notes	 	 	 	 	 	 6.11%	 6.11%
Other	 borrowings	 	 	 	 	 	 4.85%	 7.61%
Borrowings	 are	 held	 under	 both	 fixed	 and	 floating	 rates	 as	 follows:	 £m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Fixed rates
Bank	 loans	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 14.5
Senior	 notes	 	 	 	 	 	 116.8	 117.1
Floating rates
Bank	 loans	 and	 overdrafts	 	 	 	 	 	 239.4	 222.1
Loan	 notes	 	 	 	 	 	 9.3	 8.6
Other	 borrowings	 	 	 	 	 	 1.1	 1.1
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 366.6	 363.4
The	 Group	 uses	 interest	 rate	 swaps	 to	 manage	 interest	 rate	 risks;	 further	 details	 are	 given	 in	 note	 28.	 All	 bank	 overdrafts	 are	 repayable	 on	 demand.	 The	 Group’s	 principal	 borrowings	 are	 as	 follows:
In	 July	 2005,	 a	 five-year	 £300m	 revolving	 multi-currency	 credit	 facility	 was	 entered	 into	 for	 general	 corporate	 purposes,	 with	 extensions	 of	 up	 to	 two	 years	 at	 the	 option	 of	 the	 lenders.	 During	 2006	 and	 2007	 the	 facility	 was	 extended	 by	 one	 year	 and	 now	 expires	 in	 2012.	 Interest	 is	 payable	 at	 the	 applicable	 LIBOR	 rate	 of	 the	 drawn	 currencies,	 plus	 margin.	 As	 at	 31	 December	 2007,	 £226.4m	 (2006:	 £217.3m)	 had	 been	 drawn	 on	 this	 facility.
In	 addition,	 two	 tranches	 of	 senior	 notes	 were	 issued	 in	 2002,	 being	 US$55m	 maturing	 in	 2009	 with	 a	 5.14%	 coupon	 and	 US$170m	 maturing	 in	 2012	 with	 a	 5.58%	 coupon.	 The	 respective	 agreements	 contain	 no	 provisions	 for	 charges	 over	 Group	 assets	 and	 include	 both	 financial	 and	 non-financial	 covenants.
There	 have	 been	 no	 breaches	 of	 the	 terms	 of	 loan	 agreements	 or	 defaults	 during	 the	 current	 or	 comparative	 periods.	 Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 continued 77	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
25. Obligations under finance leases
	 	 	 	 		 Minimum	 lease	 Present	 value	 of	 	 	 	 	 	 payments	 minimum 	 lease	 payments
£m	 	 	 	 2007	 2006	 2007	 2006
Amounts	 payable	 under	 finance	 leases:
Within	 one	 year	 	 	 	 0.3	 0.2	 0.2	 0.2
In	 the	 second	 to	 fifth	 years	 inclusive	 	 	 	 0.6	 0.6	 0.4	 0.4
After	 five	 years	 	 	 	 0.5	 0.6	 0.4	 0.4
	 	 	 	 	 1.4	 1.4	 1.0	 1.0
Less:	 future	 finance	 charges	 	 	 	 (0.4)	 (0.4)	 n/a	 n/a
Present	 value	 of	 lease	 obligations	 	 	 	 1.0	 1.0	 1.0	 1.0
Less:	 amount	 due	 for	 settlement	 within	 12	 months	 (shown	 under	 current	 liabilities)	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.2)	 (0.2)
Amount	 due	 for	 settlement	 after	 12	 months	 	 	 	 	 	 0.8	 0.8
Lease	 obligations	 are	 denominated	 in	 UK	 sterling,	 US	 dollars	 and	 euros.
26. Derivative financial instruments
Details	 of	 the	 Group’s	 financial	 instrument	 accounting	 policies	 and	 risk	 management	 strategies,	 objectives	 and	 policies	 are	 set	 out	 in	 the	 statement	 of	 accounting	 policies	 and	 in	 note	 28.	 Movements in fair values
	 	 	 	 Interest	 rate	 swaps	 Currency	 	 	 	 	 Cash 	 flow	 Fair 	 value	 translation	 	 £m	 	 	 Note	 hedge	 hedge	 derivatives	 Total
Fair	 value	 at	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 	 1.7	 (2.5)	 1.5	 0.7
Movements	 in	 year	 to	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 – 	 fair	 value	 loss	 through	 income	 statement	 –	 hedged	 items	 	 –	 (0.6)	 –	 (0.6)
	 – 	 fair	 value	 gain	 through	 income	 statement	 –	 not	 hedged		 	 –	 –	 10.8	 10.8
	 – 	 fair	 value	 loss	 recycled	 from	 equity	 to	 income	 statement	 30	 (0.9)	 –	 –	 (0.9)
	 – 	 fair	 value	 gain	 through	 reserves	 	 	 30	 1.3	 –	 –	 1.3
Fair	 value	 at	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 2.1	 (3.1)	 12.3	 11.3
Movements	 in	 year	 to	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 – 	 fair	 value	 gain	 through	 income	 statement	 –	 hedged	 items	 	 –	 4.3	 –	 4.3
	 – 	 fair	 value	 loss	 through	 income	 statement	 –	 not	 hedged		 	 –	 (0.1)	 (5.6)	 (5.7)
	 –	 fair	 value	 loss	 recycled	 from	 equity	 to	 income	 statement	 30	 (1.2)	 –	 –	 (1.2)
	 – 	 fair	 value	 loss	 through	 reserves	 	 	 30	 (0.6)	 –	 (0.3)	 (0.9)
Fair	 value	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 0.3	 1.1	 6.4	 7.8
Interest	 rate	 swaps	 are	 designated	 as	 fair	 value	 and	 cash	 flow	 hedging	 instruments	 and	 hedge	 accounting	 is	 applied.	 All	 cash	 flow	 hedges	 were	 fully	 effective	 and	 hence	 there	 is	 no	 ineffectiveness	 in	 cash	 flow	 hedges	 to	 be	 reported	 through	 	 the	 income	 statement.	 Any	 ineffectiveness	 of	 the	 fair	 value	 hedge	 is	 reported	 through	 the	 income	 statement.
Most	 currency	 translation	 derivatives	 are	 not	 accounted	 for	 using	 hedge	 accounting	 and	 movements	 in	 fair	 values	 are	 shown	 separately	 in	 the	 income	 statement	 as	 part	 of	 operating	 profit.	 The	 fair	 values	 of	 the	 Group’s	 currency	 and	 interest	 rate	 derivatives	 are	 established	 using	 valuation	 techniques,	 	 primarily	 discounting	 cash	 flows,	 based	 on	 assumptions	 that	 are	 supported	 by	 observable	 market	 prices	 or	 rates. 78	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
26. Derivative financial instruments (continued)
Balance sheet analysis
	 	 	 	 Interest	 rate	 swaps	 Currency
	 	 	 	 Cash 	 flow	 Fair 	 value	 translation	 	 £m	 	 	 	 hedge	 hedge	 derivatives	 Total
Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 –	 non-current	 assets	 	 	 2.1	 0.8	 4.1	 7.0
Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 –	 current	 assets	 	 	 0.2	 0.3	 4.4	 4.9
Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 –	 current	 liabilities	 	 	 (0.8)	 –	 (1.4)	 (2.2)
Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 –	 non-current	 liabilities	 	 	 (1.2)	 –	 (0.7)	 (1.9)
Fair	 value	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 0.3	 1.1	 6.4	 7.8
Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 –	 non-current	 assets	 	 	 1.6	 –	 7.0	 8.6
Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 –	 current	 assets	 	 	 0.6	 –	 6.4	 7.0
Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 –	 current	 liabilities	 	 	 –	 (0.7)	 (1.1)	 (1.8)
Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 –	 non-current	 liabilities	 	 	 (0.1)	 (2.4)	 –	 (2.5)
Fair	 value	 at	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 2.1	 (3.1)	 12.3	 11.3
27. Financial instruments
The	 Group’s	 financial	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 can	 be	 categorised	 as	 follows:	 	 	 	 	 Fair 	 value	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 through	 	 Derivatives	 Total	 	 	 	 Loans	 and	 profit	 Amortised	 used	 for	 carrying 	 £m	 	 Note	 receivables	 or 	 loss	 cost	 hedging	 amount
Financial	 assets
	 Cash 	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 	 20	 444.5	 –	 –	 –	 444.5
	 Trade 	 receivables	 	 19	 189.5	 –	 –	 –	 189.5
	 Other 	 receivables	 	 19	 28.2	 –	 –	 –	 28.2
	 Derivative 	 contracts	 (not	 hedge	 accounted)		 26	 –	 8.5	 –	 –	 8.5
Financial	 liabilities
	 Trade 	 payables	 	 21	 –	 –	 (86.5)	 –	 (86.5)
	 Borrowings	 	 24	 –	 (114.3)	 (252.3)	 –	 (366.6)
	 Derivative	 contracts	 (not	 hedge	 accounted)		 26	 –	 (2.1)	 –	 –	 (2.1)
	 Other 	 liabilities	 	 21	 –	 –	 (39.1)	 –	 (39.1)
Hedging	 instruments
	 Assets 	 	 	 26	 –	 –	 –	 3.4	 3.4
	 Liabilities	 	 26	 –	 –	 –	 (2.0)	 (2.0)
Net	 financial	 assets	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 177.8
Financial	 assets
	 Cash 	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 	 20	 364.3	 –	 –	 –	 364.3
	 Trade 	 receivables	 	 19	 148.4	 –	 –	 –	 148.4
	 Other 	 receivables	 	 19	 21.2	 –	 –	 –	 21.2
	 Derivative 	 contracts	 (not	 hedge	 accounted)		 26	 –	 13.4	 –	 –	 13.4
Financial	 liabilities
	 Trade 	 payables	 	 21	 –	 –	 (77.2)	 –	 (77.2)
	 Borrowings	 	 24	 –	 (112.0)	 (251.4)	 –	 (363.4)
	 Derivative 	 contracts	 (not	 hedge	 accounted)		 26	 –	 (1.1)	 –	 –	 (1.1)
	 Other 	 liabilities	 	 21	 –	 –	 (34.3)	 –	 (34.3)
Hedging	 instruments
	 Assets 	 	 	 26	 –	 –	 –	 2.2	 2.2
	 Liabilities	 	 26	 –	 –	 –	 (3.2)	 (3.2)
Net	 financial	 assets	 at	 31	 December	 2006 	 	 	 	 	 	 70.3
Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 continued 79	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
27. Financial instruments (continued)
The	 Group	 does	 not	 hold	 any	 financial	 assets	 which	 would	 be	 classified	 as	 held	 to	 maturity,	 available	 for	 sale	 or	 held	 at	 fair	 value	 through	 equity.	 The	 borrowings	 shown	 in	 the	 table	 above	 categorised	 as	 held	 at	 fair	 value	 through	 profit	 or	 loss	 are	 senior	 notes	 which	 were	 issued	 in	 2002.	 The	 maximum	 exposure	 to	 credit	 risk	 on	 these	 is	 considered	 to	 be	 their	 carrying	 value	 of	 US$225m	 (£113.0m,	 2006:	 £115.0m).	 The	 change	 in	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 senior	 notes	 is	 considered	 to	 relate	 entirely	 to	 changes	 in	 market	 conditions	 and	 is	 not	 impacted	 by	 changes	 in	 credit	 risk.	 The	 difference	 between	 the	 carrying	 amount	 of	 the	 senior	 notes	 and	 the	 amount	 which	 the	 Group	 is	 contractually	 required	 to	 pay	 on	 maturity	 is	 £1.3m	 (2006:	 £3.0m).	 The	 total	 interest	 income	 and	 expense	 for	 financial	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 not	 held	 at	 fair	 value	 through	 profit	 or	 loss	 is	 as	 follows:	 £m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Interest	 income	 	 	 	 	 	 20.9	 22.0
Interest	 expense	 	 	 	 	 	 (11.6)	 (20.4)
The	 Directors	 consider	 that	 the	 carrying	 amounts	 of	 all	 financial	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 recorded	 in	 these	 financial	 statements	 approximates	 to	 their	 fair	 value.	 28. Financial instruments and risk management
The	 Group’s	 multi-national	 operations	 and	 debt	 financing	 expose	 it	 to	 a	 variety	 of	 financial	 risks	 which	 include	 the	 effects	 of	 changes	 in	 foreign	 currency	 exchange	 rates,	 credit	 risks,	 liquidity	 rates,	 interest	 rates	 and	 debt	 market	 prices.	 The	 Group	 has	 in	 place	 a	 risk	 management	 programme	 that	 seeks	 to	 limit	 the	 adverse	 effects	 on	 the	 financial	 performance	 of	 the	 Group	 by	 using	 foreign	 currency	 financial	 instruments,	 debt,	 and	 other	 instruments,	 including	 interest	 rate	 swaps.
Financial instruments
The	 Group	 finances	 its	 operations	 primarily	 through	 a	 mixture	 of	 retained	 profits	 and	 borrowings.	 The	 Group	 does	 not	 use	 complex	 derivative	 financial	 instruments.	 Where	 it	 does	 use	 financial	 instruments	 these	 are	 mainly	 put	 in	 place	 to	 manage	 	 the	 currency	 financing	 risks	 arising	 from	 normal	 operations,	 further	 details	 of	 which	 are	 given	 in	 note	 26.	 It	 is,	 and	 has	 been	 throughout	 the	 period	 under	 review,	 the	 Group’s	 policy	 that	 no	 trading	 in	 financial	 instruments	 shall	 be	 undertaken.
Foreign	 currency	 risk	 is	 the	 most	 significant	 exposure	 for	 the	 Group	 for	 which	 financial	 instruments	 are	 employed	 as	 mitigation.	 The	 Group	 is	 exposed	 to	 a	 lesser	 extent	 to	 other	 risks	 such	 as	 interest	 rate	 risk,	 liquidity	 risk	 and	 credit	 risk.	 The	 Board	 reviews	 and	 agrees	 policies	 for	 managing	 each	 of	 these	 risks	 and	 they	 are	 summarised	 below.	 The	 policies	 have	 remained	 unchanged	 throughout	 the	 year.
Foreign currency risk 
The	 Group,	 which	 is	 based	 in	 the	 UK	 and	 reports	 in	 sterling,	 has	 significant	 investment	 in	 overseas	 operations	 in	 the	 USA,	 	 with	 further	 investments	 in	 other	 European	 countries,	 Australia,	 Canada,	 South	 Africa	 and	 Asia.	 As	 a	 result,	 the	 Group’s	 balance	 	 sheet	 can	 be	 affected	 by	 movements	 in	 these	 countries’	 exchange	 rates.	 The	 Group’s	 policy	 is	 to	 reduce,	 or	 eliminate	 where	 practicable,	 both	 structural	 and	 transactional	 foreign	 exchange	 risk.	 Foreign	 currency	 borrowings	 are	 used	 to	 mitigate	 the	 impact	 of	 foreign	 currency	 exchange	 rates	 on	 the	 Group’s	 overseas	 net	 assets.	 The	 Group	 also	 has	 transactional	 currency	 exposures	 which	 arise	 when	 an	 operating	 unit	 makes	 sales	 and	 purchases	 in	 currencies	 other	 than	 its	 own	 functional	 currency.	 The	 Group	 undertakes	 a	 formal	 process	 to	 actively	 manage	 and	 mitigate	 this	 exposure	 through	 a	 combination	 of	 minimising	 trading	 in	 non	 functional	 currencies,	 matching	 non	 functional	 currency	 revenues	 with	 non	 functional	 currency	 costs	 and	 through	 the	 use	 of	 forward	 contracts.	 Currency	 exposures	 are	 reviewed	 regularly	 and	 all	 significant	 foreign	 exchange	 transactions	 are	 approved	 by	 	 Cobham	 plc	 management.	 The	 carrying	 amounts	 of	 the	 Group’s	 foreign	 currency	 denominated	 monetary	 assets	 and	 monetary	 liabilities	 are	 as	 follows:
	 	 	 	 2007	 	 	 2006
million	 	 US$	 €	 AUS$ 	 US$	 €	 AUS$
Monetary	 assets	 	 132.0	 69.2	 52.4 	 108.5	 59.0	 35.3
Monetary	 liabilities	 	 329.6	 101.4	 82.5 	 341.9	 89.9	 60.1
Currency	 denominated	 net	 assets	 are	 partially	 hedged	 by	 currency	 borrowings.	 The	 following	 borrowings	 were	 designated	 as	 hedging	 instruments	 in	 net	 investment	 hedges:	 Borrowings	 	 246.2	 45.4	 –	 278.5	 42.4	 – 80	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
28. Financial instruments and risk management (continued)
The	 sterling/US	 dollar	 exchange	 rate	 is	 the	 most	 important	 as	 far	 as	 the	 Group	 is	 concerned,	 particularly	 given	 the	 level	 of	 US	 dollars	 which	 the	 subsidiaries	 expect	 to	 receive	 from	 their	 normal	 business	 activities.	 In	 addition	 to	 the	 longer-term	 borrowing	 structure,	 a	 number	 of	 financial	 instruments	 are	 used	 to	 manage	 the	 foreign	 exchange	 position,	 such	 as	 forward	 contracts.	 It	 is	 the	 Group’s	 current	 belief	 that	 the	 net	 dollar	 receipts	 from	 its	 subsidiaries	 will	 exceed	 the	 level	 of	 the	 outstanding	 commitment.
The	 following	 table	 details	 the	 forward	 foreign	 currency	 contracts	 for	 sales	 of	 US	 dollars	 outstanding	 as	 at	 31	 December:
	 	 	 	 	 	 Average	 US$:	 £	 	 	 	 	 	 	 US$ 	 amount	 exchange	 rate
	 	 	 	 2007 	 2006	 2007	 2006
Expiring	 within	 one	 year	 	 	 	 131.0	 108.8	 1.93	 1.78
Expiring	 within	 one	 to	 two	 years	 	 	 	 16.2	 15.9	 1.67	 1.64
Expiring	 after	 two	 years	 	 	 	 51.3	 60.5	 1.71	 1.67
	 	 	 	 	 198.5	 185.2	 1.84	 1.73
The	 latest	 date	 for	 expiry	 of	 US	 dollar	 forward	 foreign	 currency	 contracts	 is	 31	 December	 2014.	 The	 following	 table	 details	 the	 Group’s	 sensitivity	 to	 a	 change	 in	 sterling	 against	 the	 respective	 foreign	 currencies.	 	 The	 sensitivities	 below	 represent	 management’s	 assessment	 of	 the	 possible	 changes	 in	 foreign	 exchange	 rates.	 The	 sensitivity	 analysis	 of	 the	 Group’s	 exposure	 to	 foreign	 currency	 risk	 at	 the	 reporting	 date	 has	 been	 determined	 based	 on	 the	 assumption	 that	 the	 change	 is	 effective	 throughout	 the	 financial	 year.	 The	 analysis	 assumes	 that	 all	 other	 variables,	 including	 interest	 rates,	 remain	 constant.	 A	 positive	 number	 indicates	 an	 increase	 in	 profit	 after	 taxation	 and	 equity	 where	 sterling	 weakens	 against	 the	 respective	 currency.	 	 A	 strengthening	 of	 sterling	 would	 have	 the	 equal	 but	 opposite	 effect	 on	 the	 basis	 that	 all	 other	 variables	 remain	 constant.
	 	 	 	 	 2007	 	 2006
£m	 	 	 Sensitivity	 Profit/(loss) 	 Equity	 Profit/(loss)	 Equity
US	 dollars	 	 	 13%	 9.0 	 9.0	 9.7	 9.7
Euros	 	 	 8%	 3.9 	 3.9	 4.3	 4.3
Australian	 dollars	 	 	 10%	 (3.6) 	 (3.6)	 (0.3)	 (0.3)
The	 exposure	 to	 movements	 in	 exchange	 rates	 arises	 due	 to	 outstanding	 non	 functional	 currency	 receivables	 and	 payables	 at	 the	 year	 end.	 The	 Group’s	 sensitivity	 to	 foreign	 currency	 has	 increased	 during	 the	 current	 period	 mainly	 due	 to	 increased	 exposure	 to	 Australian	 dollar	 movements.	 Interest rate risk
The	 Group	 has	 various	 long	 and	 short	 term	 borrowings,	 principally	 in	 US	 dollars,	 euros,	 Australian	 dollars	 and	 sterling	 at	 both	 fixed	 and	 floating	 rates	 of	 interest.	 The	 Group	 continually	 monitors	 its	 exposure	 to	 movements	 in	 interest	 rates	 in	 order	 to	 bring	 greater	 stability	 and	 certainty	 with	 respect	 to	 borrowing	 costs.	 Group	 policy	 is	 to	 assess	 borrowings	 with	 regard	 to	 fixed	 or	 variable	 rates	 of	 interest	 depending	 on	 prevailing	 market	 conditions	 and	 to	 acquire	 interest	 rate	 swaps	 to	 manage	 the	 interest	 rate	 risk.	 Of	 the	 Group’s	 fixed	 rate	 borrowings,	 senior	 notes	 totalling	 £113.0m	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 (2006:	 £112.0m)	 were	 swapped	 into	 floating	 rates	 on	 issuance	 in	 2002	 through	 to	 their	 maturity	 in	 2009	 (£27.6m)	 and	 2012	 (£85.4m),	 the	 rates	 being	 reset	 and	 interest	 payments	 made	 on	 a	 six	 monthly	 basis.	 The	 Group	 has	 applied	 hedge	 accounting,	 designating	 the	 swap	 as	 a	 fair	 value	 hedge	 and	 its	 fair	 value	 is	 detailed	 in	 note	 26.
All	 floating	 rate	 borrowings	 have	 regular	 repricing	 dates.	 Interest	 rate	 swaps	 which	 mitigate	 the	 exposure	 arising	 on	 floating	 rate	 debt	 are	 all	 designated	 as	 cash	 flow	 hedges	 and	 are	 as	 follows:	 	 	 	 Period 	 of	 swap	 contract
£m		 Fixed	 rate	 from	 to	 	 Currency 	 value	 2007	 2006
US	 dollar	 bank	 loans	 4.48%	 January 	 2006	 	 June 	 2010	 US$260m	 130.6	 132.8
Australian	 dollar	 bank	 loans	 6.30%	 May 	 2006	 	 January 	 2020	 AUS$106m 	 46.8 	 16.1
Australian	 dollar	 bank	 loans	 6.40%	 January 	 2007	 	 January 	 2020	 AUS$6m	 2.8	 –
The	 fair	 value	 of	 these	 cash	 flow	 hedge	 instruments	 is	 as	 detailed	 in	 note	 26.
Surplus	 funds	 are	 placed	 on	 short	 term	 deposit.	 These	 deposits	 have	 floating	 rates	 of	 interest,	 and	 thus	 there	 is	 some	 modest	 exposure	 to	 interest	 rates	 on	 these	 deposits.
The	 following	 table	 details	 the	 Group’s	 sensitivity	 to	 a	 change	 of	 0.1	 percent	 in	 interest	 rates	 throughout	 the	 year,	 with	 all	 other	 variables,	 including	 foreign	 currency	 exchange	 rates,	 held	 constant.	 Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 continued 81	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
28. Financial instruments and risk management (continued)
A	 positive	 number	 indicates	 an	 increase	 in	 profit	 after	 taxation	 and	 equity	 where	 interest	 rates	 rise.	 A	 fall	 in	 interest	 rates	 would	 have	 the	 equal	 but	 opposite	 effect	 on	 the	 basis	 that	 all	 other	 variables	 remain	 constant.	 	 	 	 	 	 2007 	 	 2006
£m	 	 	 	 Profit/(loss)	 Equity 	 Profit/(loss)	 Equity
Sterling	 	 	 	 2.3	 –	 1.9	 –
US	 dollars	 	 	 	 (0.7)	 2.8	 (0.9)	 4.2
Euros	 	 	 	 0.5	 –	 (0.1)	 –
Australian	 dollars	 	 	 	 (0.1)	 2.4 	 –	 2.2
Liquidity risk
The	 Group	 has	 a	 positive	 cash	 flow	 from	 operating	 activities	 and	 where	 practicable	 the	 funds	 generated	 by	 operating	 companies	 are	 managed	 on	 a	 regional	 basis.	 For	 short-term	 working	 capital	 purposes	 in	 the	 UK,	 most	 operating	 companies	 utilise	 local	 bank	 facilities	 within	 an	 overall	 Group	 arrangement.	 In	 the	 US	 a	 central	 treasury	 function	 is	 maintained	 which	 all	 US	 subsidiaries	 use.	 These	 practices	 allow	 a	 balance	 to	 be	 maintained	 between	 continuity	 of	 funding,	 security	 and	 flexibility.	 As	 regards	 liquidity,	 the	 Group’s	 policy	 throughout	 the	 year	 has	 been	 to	 maintain	 a	 mix	 of	 short,	 medium	 and	 long-term	 borrowings	 with	 their	 lenders.	 Short-term	 flexibility	 is	 achieved	 by	 overdraft	 facilities	 and	 the	 use	 of	 the	 Group’s	 revolving	 credit	 facility.	 In	 addition,	 it	 is	 the	 Group’s	 policy	 to	 maintain	 undrawn	 committed	 borrowing	 facilities	 in	 various	 currencies	 in	 order	 to	 provide	 flexibility	 in	 the	 management	 of	 the	 Group’s	 liquidity.	 The	 following	 facilities,	 which	 are	 at	 floating	 rates,	 were	 available	 at	 31	 December:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Expiring	 within	 one	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 	 38.4 	 58.3
Expiring	 between	 one	 and	 five	 years	 	 	 	 	 	 73.6 	 82.7
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 112.0	 141.0
The	 table	 below	 summarises	 the	 remaining	 contractual	 maturity	 for	 the	 Group’s	 financial	 liabilities.	 The	 amounts	 shown	 are	 the	 contractual	 undiscounted	 cash	 flows	 which	 include	 interest,	 analysed	 by	 contractual	 maturity.
	 	 	 	 2007	 	 	 2006
	 	 Within	 	 Over 	 	 Within	 	 Over	
£m	 	 one	 year	 1-5 	 years	 5 	 years	 one 	 year	 1-5 	 years	 5 	 years
Non-derivative	 financial	 liabilities:
Trade	 and	 other	 payables	 	 220.6	 10.6	 –	 182.6	 7.8	 –
Borrowings	 	 243.2	 122.1	 1.7 	 231.2	 42.9	 89.7
Contingent	 consideration	 	 1.5	 12.6	 –	 11.9	 3.8	 –
Derivative	 contracts:	 				 Gross	 cash	 outflows	 	 (32.5)	 (41.0)	 (34.7) 	 (40.7)	 (2.4)	 (0.5)
	 			 Gross	 cash	 inflows	 	 30.9	 39.1	 34.2 	 38.5	 –	 –
Commodity price risk
The	 Group	 has	 no	 material	 exposure	 to	 commodity	 price	 fluctuations.
Credit risk
The	 Group	 has	 no	 significant	 concentrations	 of	 credit	 risk.	 The	 Group’s	 principal	 financial	 assets	 are	 bank	 balances,	 cash	 and	 trade	 and	 other	 receivables.
The	 credit	 risk	 on	 liquid	 funds	 and	 derivative	 financial	 instruments	 is	 limited	 because	 the	 counterparties	 are	 banks	 with	 high	 credit	 ratings	 assigned	 by	 international	 credit	 rating	 agencies.	 The	 Group	 further	 limits	 risk	 in	 this	 area	 by	 setting	 a	 maximum	 level	 for	 deposits	 or	 overdrafts	 with	 any	 one	 counterparty.	 These	 facilities	 are	 reviewed	 every	 six	 months	 or	 more	 often	 if	 there	 	 is	 an	 indication	 that	 the	 credit	 rating	 of	 any	 of	 the	 banks	 falls	 below	 a	 Moody’s	 Aa3	 rating.	 Concentrations	 of	 credit	 risk	 with	 respect	 to	 trade	 receivables	 are	 limited	 due	 to	 the	 Group’s	 customer	 base	 being	 large	 and	 unrelated.	 Customers	 are	 typically	 multinational	 groups	 or	 government	 agencies	 with	 long-term	 trading	 relationships.	 The	 Group	 also	 has	 in	 place	 procedures	 that	 require	 appropriate	 credit	 checks	 on	 potential	 customers	 before	 sales	 are	 made.	 Existing	 customer	 accounts	 are	 also	 monitored	 on	 an	 ongoing	 basis	 and	 appropriate	 action	 is	 taken	 where	 necessary	 to	 minimise	 any	 credit	 risk.	 The	 Directors	 therefore	 believe	 there	 is	 no	 further	 credit	 risk	 provision	 required	 in	 excess	 of	 normal	 provision	 for	 impaired	 receivables.	 Group	 management	 monitor	 the	 ageing	 of	 receivables	 which	 are	 more	 than	 one	 month	 overdue	 and	 debtor	 days	 on	 a	 regular	 basis.	 At	 31	 December	 2007,	 8.9%	 (2006:	 10.9%)	 of	 gross	 trade	 receivables	 were	 more	 than	 one	 month	 overdue.	 The	 maximum	 exposure	 to	 credit	 risk	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 is	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 each	 class	 of	 receivable	 as	 disclosed	 in	 note	 19.	 Letters	 of	 credit	 are	 the	 only	 collateral	 held	 as	 security	 against	 trade	 receivables.	 These	 are	 obtained	 in	 a	 limited	 number	 of	 cases	 in	 accordance	 with	 good	 business	 practice.	 82	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
28. Financial instruments and risk management (continued) 
The	 Group	 has	 not	 pledged	 any	 assets	 in	 respect	 of	 any	 of	 its	 primary	 borrowing	 facilities	 or	 other	 financial	 liabilities,	 	 except	 as	 disclosed	 in	 note	 15.
In	 the	 UK	 and	 the	 USA,	 the	 Group	 has	 master	 netting	 arrangements	 in	 respect	 of	 bank	 balances.	 In	 the	 normal	 course	 of	 business	 these	 bank	 accounts	 are	 settled	 on	 a	 net	 basis	 within	 each	 currency	 and	 as	 such	 are	 presented	 in	 the	 financial	 statements	 as	 net.	 In	 the	 event	 of	 an	 automatic	 enforcement	 event	 the	 bank	 balances	 are	 automatically	 set	 off	 against	 each	 other	 to	 achieve	 a	 net	 position.
Capital risk management
Group	 policy	 is	 to	 maintain	 a	 strong	 capital	 base,	 defined	 as	 total	 shareholders’	 equity	 excluding	 minority	 interests,	 totalling	 £803.7m	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 (2006:	 £714.9m),	 so	 as	 to	 maintain	 investor,	 creditor	 and	 market	 confidence	 and	 to	 sustain	 future	 development	 of	 the	 business.	 Within	 this	 overall	 policy,	 the	 Group	 seeks	 to	 maintain	 an	 optimum	 capital	 structure	 by	 a	 mixture	 	 of	 debt	 and	 retained	 earnings	 and	 currently,	 because	 of	 recent	 strong	 earnings	 coupled	 with	 the	 successful	 restructuring	 programme,	 the	 Group	 has	 capacity	 to	 significantly	 increase	 borrowings	 to	 fund	 carefully	 selected	 acquisition	 opportunities.	 Funding	 needs	 are	 reviewed	 periodically	 and	 also	 each	 time	 a	 significant	 acquisition	 is	 made.	 A	 number	 of	 factors	 are	 considered	 which	 include	 the	 net	 debt/EBITDA	 ratio,	 future	 funding	 needs	 (usually	 potential	 acquisitions),	 proposed	 dividend	 levels	 and	 Group	 banking	 arrangements.	 There	 were	 no	 changes	 to	 the	 Group’s	 approach	 to	 capital	 management	 during	 the	 year.	 Primary	 sources	 of	 funding	 for	 the	 Group	 are	 the	 bank	 and	 private	 placement	 markets	 and	 typically	 the	 Group	 borrows	 US	 dollars	 to	 fund	 acquisitions	 in	 the	 USA.	 As	 noted	 above,	 the	 Group	 maintains	 a	 mixture	 of	 fixed	 and	 floating	 interest	 rate	 arrangements	 and	 within	 the	 overall	 net	 cash	 will	 have	 sterling	 deposits	 and	 borrowings	 in	 overseas	 currencies	 such	 as	 US	 dollars,	 euros	 and	 Australian	 dollars	 funding	 overseas	 operations.
29. Share capital
Authorised:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
1,479,200,000	 (2006:	 1,479,200,000)	 Ordinary	 Shares	 of	 par	 value	 2.5p	 	 	 	 37.0	 37.0
20,000	 6%	 second	 cumulative	 preference	 shares	 of	 £1	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –
Ordinary Shares – issued and fully paid:
	 	 	 	 	 	 Number	 of	 shares	 £m
At	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 	 	 1,122,859,490	 28.1
Exercise	 of	 share	 options	 	 	 	 	 7,749,649	 0.2
At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 	 1,130,609,139	 28.3
Exercise	 of	 share	 options	 	 	 	 	 4,746,201	 0.1
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 1,135,355,340	 28.4
The	 Company	 has	 one	 class	 of	 Ordinary	 Shares	 which	 carry	 no	 right	 to	 fixed	 income,	 representing	 99.9%	 of	 the	 total	 issued	 share	 capital.	 On	 a	 show	 of	 hands	 every	 member	 holding	 Ordinary	 Shares	 who	 is	 present	 in	 person	 or	 by	 a	 duly	 authorised	 representative	 has	 one	 vote	 and	 on	 a	 poll	 every	 member	 who	 is	 present	 in	 person	 or	 by	 proxy	 has	 one	 vote	 for	 every	 £1	 in	 nominal	 value	 of	 the	 shares	 of	 which	 the	 member	 is	 the	 holder.
19,700	 6%	 second	 cumulative	 preference	 shares	 have	 been	 issued,	 representing	 0.1%	 of	 total	 issued	 share	 capital.	 These	 are	 non-redeemable	 and	 are	 classified	 as	 borrowings	 with	 a	 value	 of	 £19,700.	 The	 shareholders	 of	 the	 6%	 second	 cumulative	 preference	 shares	 are	 entitled	 to	 receive	 a	 fixed	 cumulative	 preference	 dividend	 at	 the	 rate	 of	 6%	 per	 annum	 in	 priority	 to	 the	 payment	 of	 dividends	 on	 the	 Ordinary	 Shares.	 In	 addition,	 on	 a	 return	 of	 assets	 on	 the	 liquidation	 or	 otherwise	 of	 the	 Company,	 the	 assets	 available	 for	 distribution	 are	 to	 be	 applied	 first	 in	 repaying	 to	 the	 holders	 of	 the	 6%	 second	 cumulative	 preference	 shares	 the	 amounts	 paid	 up	 on	 their	 shares.	 On	 a	 show	 of	 hands,	 every	 member	 holding	 6%	 second	 cumulative	 preference	 shares	 who	 is	 present	 in	 person	 has	 one	 vote	 and	 on	 a	 poll,	 every	 member	 has	 one	 vote	 for	 every	 £1	 in	 nominal	 amount	 of	 the	 shares	 of	 which	 the	 member	 is	 the	 holder.	 Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 continued 83	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
30. Reserves
£m	 	 	 	 	 Note	 2007	 2006
Share	 premium	 account	 	 	 	 	 30a	 98.8	 94.2
Translation	 reserve	 	 	 	 	 30b	 1.4	 (8.9)
Other	 reserves	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Hedging 	 reserve	 	 	 	 	 30c	 –	 1.5
	 Share	 options	 reserve	 	 	 	 	 30d	 17.9	 14.5
Total	 other	 reserves	 	 	 	 	 	 17.9	 16.0
Retained	 earnings	 	 	 	 	 30e	 657.2	 585.3
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 775.3	 686.6
30a. Share premium account
£m
At	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 87.5
Issue	 of	 shares	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6.7
At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 94.2
Issue	 of	 shares	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4.6
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 98.8
30b. Translation reserve
£m
At	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.9
Currency	 differences	 on	 translation	 of	 foreign	 operations	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (11.2)
Transfer	 to	 profit	 on	 sale	 of	 undertakings	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.4
At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (8.9)
Currency	 differences	 on	 translation	 of	 foreign	 operations	 	 	 	 	 	 10.3
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.4
The	 translation	 reserve	 comprises	 all	 foreign	 exchange	 differences	 arising	 on	 the	 results	 and	 financial	 position	 of	 subsidiaries	 which	 do	 not	 report	 in	 the	 Group’s	 functional	 currency.	 30c. Hedging reserve
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 Note	 At	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.2
Increase	 in	 fair	 value	 of	 cash	 flow	 hedging	 derivatives	 	 	 	 	 26	 1.3
Tax	 effect	 of	 increase	 in	 fair	 value	 of	 cash	 flow	 hedging	 derivatives	 	 	 	 	 (0.4)
Recycling	 of	 fair	 values	 to	 income	 statement	 	 	 	 	 	 26	 (0.9)
Tax	 effect	 of	 recycling	 of	 fair	 values	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.3
At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.5
Increase	 in	 fair	 value	 of	 cash	 flow	 hedging	 derivatives	 	 	 	 	 26	 (0.9)
Tax	 effect	 of	 increase	 in	 fair	 value	 of	 cash	 flow	 hedging	 derivatives	 	 	 	 	 0.2
Recycling	 of	 fair	 values	 to	 income	 statement	 	 	 	 	 	 26	 (1.2)
Tax	 effect	 of	 recycling	 of	 fair	 values	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.4
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –
The	 hedging	 reserve	 reflects	 movements	 in	 fair	 values	 on	 cash	 flow	 hedging	 derivatives	 as	 detailed	 in	 note	 26.
30d. Share options reserve
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 	 At	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10.1
Credit	 to	 reserve	 for	 the	 year	 for	 share-based	 payments	 	 	 	 	 	 3.1
Deferred	 tax	 credit	 to	 reserve	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.3
At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14.5
Credit	 to	 reserve	 for	 the	 year	 for	 share-based	 payments	 	 	 	 	 	 4.4
Transfer	 to	 retained	 earnings	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (1.2)
Deferred	 tax	 credit	 to	 reserve	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.2
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 17.9 84	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
30. Reserves (continued) 
30d. Share options reserve (continued)
The	 share	 options	 reserve	 includes	 the	 cost	 of	 share	 options	 issued	 during	 the	 year	 as	 assessed	 under	 IFRS	 2	 together	 with	 deferred	 tax	 provided	 under	 IAS	 12	 relating	 to	 share-based	 payments,	 where	 the	 calculated	 future	 tax	 benefit	 is	 in	 excess	 of	 the	 amount	 charged	 to	 date	 under	 IFRS	 2.
Where	 share	 options	 which	 gave	 rise	 to	 charges	 under	 IFRS	 2	 have	 been	 exercised,	 the	 appropriate	 proportion	 of	 the	 share	 options	 reserve	 is	 transferred	 to	 retained	 earnings.	 30e. Retained earnings
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 Note	 At	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 456.8
Total	 recognised	 income	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 	 161.8
Transfer	 from	 translation	 reserve	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10.8
Transfer	 to	 hedging	 reserve	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.3)
Transfer	 to	 share	 options	 reserve	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (1.3)
Dividends	 authorised	 	 	 	 	 	 5	 (39.7)
Profit	 for	 the	 year	 attributable	 to	 minority	 interest	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.2)
Goodwill	 written	 off	 on	 acquisition	 of	 minority	 interests	 	 	 	 	 	 (2.6)
At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 585.3
Total	 recognised	 income	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 	 123.8
Transfer	 to	 translation	 reserve	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (10.3)
Net	 transfer	 from	 hedging	 reserve	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.5
Transfer	 from	 share	 options	 reserve	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.0
Dividends	 authorised	 	 	 	 	 	 5	 (43.8)
Profit	 for	 the	 year	 attributable	 to	 minority	 interest	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.3)
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 657.2
31. Reconciliation of changes in total equity 
£m	 	 	 	 	 Note	 2007	 2006
Total	 equity	 at	 start	 of	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 715.0 	 587.1
Total	 recognised	 income	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 123.8	 161.8
Dividends	 authorised	 	 	 	 	 5	 (43.8)	 (39.7)
Profit	 attributable	 to	 minority	 interest	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.3)	 (0.2)
Goodwill	 written	 off	 on	 acquisition	 of	 minority	 interests	 	 	 	 	 –	 (2.6)
Issue	 of	 share	 capital	 	 	 	 	 29	 0.1	 0.2
Premium	 on	 shares	 issued	 	 	 	 	 30	 4.6	 6.7
Share-based	 payments	 charge	 	 	 	 	 30	 4.4	 3.1
Increase/(decrease)	 in	 minority	 interest	 	 	 	 	 	 0.3	 (1.4)
Total	 equity	 at	 end	 of	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 804.1	 715.0
32. Acquisitions
The	 following	 acquisitions	 took	 place	 during	 the	 year	 to	 31	 December	 2007:	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Date	 of	 	 Proportion 	 of	 Names	 of	 businesses	 acquired	 Principal 	 activity	 acquisition	 	 shares 	 acquired	 Cost	 of	 acquisition
Patriot	 Antenna	 Systems	 Design 	 and	 manufacture	 	 28 	 August	 2007	 asset 	 purchase	 US$18m 	 plus	 contingent	 	 	 of	 parabolic	 antennas	 	 	 consideration 	 up	 to	 US$27m
ADDE	 Cryostatic	 cooling	 products	 10 	 December	 2007	 asset 	 purchase	 US$4.5m
The	 following	 acquisitions	 took	 place	 after	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date	 and	 before	 approval	 of	 these	 financial	 statements:
	 	 	 Date	 of	 	 Proportion 	 of	 Names	 of	 businesses	 acquired	 Principal 	 activity	 acquisition	 	 shares 	 acquired	 Cost	 of	 acquisition
S-TEC	 Corporation	 Design, 	 certification	 and	 	 3 	 January	 2008	 100%	 US$38m	
	 	 manufacture	 of	 autopilots	 	 	 	 	 	 for	 general	 aviation	 aircraft
Sensor	 and	 Antenna	 Electronic 	 warfare	 technology	 22 	 February	 2008	 asset 	 purchase	 US$240m	 Systems	 Lansdale	 and 	 subsystems
Further	 details	 are	 shown	 in	 note	 38,	 Events	 after	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date,	 together	 with	 details	 of	 acquisitions	 which	 have	 not	 completed	 at	 the	 date	 of	 approval	 of	 these	 financial	 statements.	 Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 continued 85	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
32. Acquisitions (continued) 
Components	 of	 the	 cost	 of	 acquisitions	 during	 the	 year:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Total
Cash	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10.9
Contingent	 consideration	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2.7
Directly	 attributable	 acquisition	 costs	 (including	 direct	 legal	 costs)	 	 	 	 	 0.3
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13.9
As	 at	 31	 December	 2007,	 fair	 values	 of	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 acquired	 are	 provisional	 and	 subject	 to	 potential	 subsequent	 adjustment.	 A	 summary	 of	 the	 book	 and	 fair	 values	 of	 the	 acquisitions	 which	 took	 place	 during	 2007	 is	 as	 follows:
	 	 	 	 	 	 Book 	 value	 prior	
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 to 	 acquisition	 Fair 	 value
Non-current	 assets
	 – 	 Intangibles	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 8.3
	 –	 Property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 	 	 	 	 	 2.1	 2.6
Current	 assets
	 – 	 Inventories	 	 	 	 	 	 2.6	 2.0
	 –	 Trade	 receivables	 	 	 	 	 	 1.8	 1.7
	 –	 Bank	 and	 cash	 balances	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –
Current	 liabilities
	 – 	 Trade	 payables	 	 	 	 	 	 (2.3)	 (2.3)
Net	 assets	 acquired	 	 	 	 	 	 4.2	 12.3
Goodwill	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.6
Total	 consideration	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13.9
All	 intangible	 assets	 were	 recognised	 at	 their	 respective	 fair	 values.	 The	 residual	 excess	 of	 the	 total	 cost	 over	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 net	 assets	 acquired	 is	 recognised	 as	 goodwill	 in	 the	 financial	 statements.	 Goodwill	 represents	 the	 premium	 paid	 in	 anticipation	 of	 future	 economic	 benefits	 from	 assets	 that	 are	 not	 capable	 of	 being	 separately	 identified	 and	 separately	 recognised.
Adjustments	 from	 book	 value	 to	 fair	 value	 include	 adjustments	 arising	 from	 the	 application	 of	 Group	 accounting	 policies,	 	 the	 recognition	 of	 intangible	 assets	 under	 IFRS	 3,	 Business	 Combinations,	 and	 fair	 value	 adjustments	 to	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 and	 inventories.	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 The	 net	 cash	 outflows	 arising	 from	 the	 acquisitions	 in	 2007	 amounts	 to	 £11.2m	 all	 of	 which	 is	 cash	 consideration	 and	 includes	 expenses	 of	 acquisition.	 The	 after	 tax	 result	 of	 the	 acquisitions	 since	 the	 date	 of	 acquisition	 was	 a	 loss	 of	 £0.9m,	 including	 amortisation	 of	 intangible	 fixed	 assets	 arising	 on	 acquisition	 of	 £1.0m.	 If	 these	 acquisitions	 had	 taken	 effect	 on	 1	 January	 2007,	 it	 is	 estimated	 that	 Group	 total	 revenues	 would	 have	 been	 £1,070.9m	 and	 profit	 after	 tax	 £131.9m.	 This	 information	 is	 not	 necessarily	 indicative	 of	 the	 results	 had	 the	 operations	 been	 acquired	 at	 the	 start	 of	 the	 year,	 nor	 of	 future	 results	 of	 the	 combined	 operations.
33. Discontinued operations
No	 businesses	 were	 sold	 or	 classified	 as	 discontinued	 during	 the	 year	 to	 31	 December	 2007.
Contingent	 consideration	 totalling	 £5.8m	 was	 received	 during	 2007	 in	 relation	 to	 the	 disposal	 of	 Wallop	 Defence	 Systems	 Limited,	 and	 is	 included	 in	 the	 results	 of	 discontinued	 operations.	 The	 results	 of	 Wallop	 Defence	 Systems	 Limited	 were	 reported	 within	 discontinued	 operations	 in	 2006.	 This	 company	 was	 sold	 on	 8	 March	 2006,	 completing	 the	 disposal	 of	 the	 Group’s	 Countermeasures	 operations,	 which	 was	 initiated	 in	 2005.	 Costs	 of	 £0.4m	 were	 paid	 in	 2007	 in	 connection	 with	 these	 disposals,	 together	 with	 a	 further	 £0.3m	 relating	 to	 disposals	 of	 continuing	 operations	 which	 took	 place	 in	 2006.	 86	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
33. Discontinued operations (continued)
The	 results	 of	 Wallop	 Defence	 Systems	 Limited	 included	 in	 the	 consolidated	 income	 and	 cash	 flow	 statements	 are	 as	 follows:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Revenue	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 3.6
Cost	 of	 sales	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (2.5)
Distribution	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (0.2)
Administrative	 expenses	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (0.1)
Operating	 profit	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 0.8
Finance	 income	 and	 expense	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 0.1
Profit	 before	 tax	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 0.9
Tax	 	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (0.1)
Profit	 for	 the	 year	 after	 tax	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 0.8
Profit	 on	 disposal	 before	 tax	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5.8	 13.0
Tax	 on	 profit	 on	 disposal	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –
Total	 profit	 after	 taxation	 from	 discontinued	 operations	 	 	 	 	 5.8	 13.8
Cash flows from discontinued operations
Net	 cash	 used	 in	 operating	 activities	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (1.5)
Net	 cash	 received	 from/(used	 in)	 investing	 activities	 	 	 	 	 5.4	 (1.0)
Net	 cash	 received	 from	 financing	 activities	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 0.1
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5.4	 (2.4)
Earnings per Ordinary Share of discontinued operations (including profit on disposal) 
 –	 basic	 	 	 	 	 	 0.51p 	 1.22p
 –	 diluted	 	 	 	 	 	 0.51p 	 1.21p
34. Operating lease arrangements 
At	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date	 the	 Group	 had	 outstanding	 commitments	 for	 minimum	 lease	 payments	 due	 under	 non-cancellable	 operating	 leases	 as	 follows:	 £m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Within	 one	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 15.1	 12.8
Between	 one	 and	 five	 years	 	 	 	 	 	 42.8 	 36.0
After	 five	 years	 	 	 	 	 	 93.1	 77.1
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 151.0	 125.9
Operating	 lease	 payments	 represent	 rentals	 payable	 by	 the	 Group	 for	 certain	 of	 its	 office	 and	 operational	 properties,	 	 and	 operational	 aircraft	 used	 in	 its	 service	 businesses.
35. Contingent liabilities
As	 at	 31	 December	 2007,	 the	 parent	 company	 and	 the	 Group	 had	 contingent	 liabilities	 in	 respect	 of	 bank	 and	 contractual	 performance	 guarantees	 and	 other	 matters	 arising	 in	 the	 ordinary	 course	 of	 business	 entered	 into	 for,	 or	 on	 behalf	 of,	 certain	 Group	 undertakings.	 Where	 it	 is	 expected	 that	 a	 material	 liability	 will	 arise	 in	 respect	 of	 these	 matters,	 appropriate	 provision	 	 is	 made	 within	 the	 Group	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 or	 within	 those	 of	 the	 relevant	 subsidiary.
As	 the	 conditions	 of	 the	 above	 guarantees	 are	 currently	 being	 met,	 no	 obligating	 event	 is	 foreseeable	 and	 therefore	 no	 contingent	 liability	 exists	 at	 the	 year	 end.
The	 Company	 and	 various	 of	 its	 subsidiaries	 are,	 from	 time	 to	 time,	 parties	 to	 legal	 proceedings	 and	 claims	 which	 arise	 in	 	 the	 ordinary	 course	 of	 business.	 The	 Directors	 do	 not	 anticipate	 that	 the	 outcome	 of	 these	 proceedings,	 actions	 and	 claims,	 	 either	 individually	 or	 in	 aggregate,	 will	 have	 a	 material	 adverse	 effect	 upon	 the	 Group’s	 financial	 position.
36. Commitments
At	 31	 December	 2007,	 the	 Group	 had	 commitments	 for	 the	 acquisition	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 of	 £17.1m	 (2006:	 £33.2m)	 which	 mainly	 relate	 to	 aircraft	 for	 the	 Australian	 Sentinel	 contract.
Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 continued 87	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
37. Related party transactions
Transactions	 between	 the	 Company	 and	 its	 subsidiaries,	 which	 are	 related	 parties	 of	 the	 Company,	 have	 been	 eliminated	 	 on	 consolidation	 and	 are	 not	 disclosed	 in	 this	 note.	 Details	 of	 transactions	 between	 the	 Group	 and	 other	 related	 parties	 are	 disclosed	 below.
Trading transactions and balances
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Transactions	 between	 Group	 entities	 and	 joint	 ventures	 during	 the	 year:
Sales	 of	 goods	 	 	 	 	 	 1.0	 1.3
Purchases	 of	 goods	 	 	 	 	 	 0.4	 –
Dividends	 received	 	 	 	 	 	 3.2	 4.3
At	 the	 year	 end	 balances	 with	 joint	 ventures	 were	 as	 follows:
Amounts	 owed	 by	 related	 parties	 to	 Group	 entities	 	 	 	 	 0.1	 0.1
Amounts	 owed	 to	 related	 parties	 by	 Group	 entities	 	 	 	 	 –	 –
Sales	 of	 goods	 to	 related	 parties	 were	 made	 at	 the	 Group’s	 usual	 list	 prices	 for	 sales	 to	 non-related	 parties.	 Goods	 are	 bought	 	 on	 the	 basis	 of	 the	 price	 lists	 in	 force	 with	 non-related	 parties.	 The	 amounts	 outstanding	 are	 unsecured	 and	 will	 be	 settled	 in	 cash.	 No	 guarantees	 have	 been	 given	 to	 or	 received	 from	 related	 parties.	 No	 expense	 has	 been	 recognised	 in	 the	 period	 for	 bad	 or	 doubtful	 debts	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 amounts	 owed	 by	 related	 parties.
In	 2006,	 prior	 to	 its	 acquisition	 by	 the	 Group,	 domo	 Limited	 sold	 £372,000	 of	 goods	 to	 a	 subsidiary	 of	 Cobham	 plc,	 	 DTC	 Communications	 Inc.	 Compensation of key management personnel
The	 remuneration	 of	 Directors	 and	 other	 members	 of	 key	 management	 during	 the	 year	 was	 as	 follows:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Remuneration	 	 	 	 	 	 6.9	 7.1
Post-employment	 benefits	 	 	 	 	 	 0.4	 0.5
Share-based	 payments	 	 	 	 	 	 1.6	 1.4
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8.9	 9.0
The	 remuneration	 of	 Directors	 and	 key	 executives	 is	 determined	 by	 the	 remuneration	 committee	 having	 regard	 to	 the	 performance	 of	 individuals	 and	 market	 trends.
The	 Directors	 of	 Cobham	 plc	 had	 no	 material	 transactions	 with	 the	 Company	 during	 the	 year,	 other	 than	 as	 a	 result	 of	 service	 agreements.	 Details	 of	 Directors’	 remuneration	 are	 disclosed	 in	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 on	 pages	 35	 to	 41.	 During	 the	 year,	 the	 Board	 and	 Mr	 A.	 Hannam	 agreed	 that	 his	 service	 contract	 should	 be	 further	 extended	 beyond	 his	 contractual	 retirement	 date	 of	 28	 March	 2006	 to	 31	 May	 2008.	 A	 payment	 of	 £24,644	 was	 agreed	 to	 be	 made	 after	 the	 year	 end	 to	 the	 Cobham	 Executive	 Pension	 Plan.	 Additional	 payments	 of	 £49,243	 and	 £40,787	 were	 made	 in	 2007	 to	 his	 SIPP	 and	 to	 the	 Cobham	 Executive	 Pension	 Plan	 respectively	 in	 relation	 to	 the	 extension	 of	 his	 service	 contract	 during	 2006.	 During	 2003,	 Mr	 P.	 Matthews,	 who	 was	 a	 member	 of	 the	 Group’s	 key	 management	 personnel	 in	 2006,	 sold	 his	 shares	 in	 Sea	 Tel	 Inc	 to	 Chelton	 Avionics	 Inc,	 a	 subsidiary	 of	 Cobham	 plc.	 During	 2006,	 Mr	 Matthews	 received	 consideration	 of	 US$1,932,621	 for	 the	 shares	 under	 the	 terms	 of	 the	 sale	 and	 this	 is	 included	 in	 the	 remuneration	 shown	 in	 the	 table	 above.	 38. Events after the balance sheet date 
As	 shown	 in	 note	 32,	 agreement	 was	 reached	 on	 3	 January	 2008	 to	 purchase	 the	 entire	 share	 capital	 of	 S-TEC	 Corporation,	 	 for	 US$38m	 on	 a	 debt-free,	 cash-free	 basis.	 The	 company	 is	 based	 in	 the	 USA	 and	 designs,	 certifies	 and	 manufactures	 autopilots	 for	 general	 aviation	 aircraft.	 Components	 of	 the	 cost	 of	 this	 acquisition	 are:	 £m	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Total
Cash	 	 	 	 	 	 	 18.0
Directly	 attributable	 acquisition	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0.1
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 18.1 88	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
38. Events after the balance sheet date (continued)
A	 summary	 of	 the	 book	 and	 fair	 values	 of	 this	 acquisition	 is	 as	 follows:
	 	 	 	 	 	 Book 	 value	 	 	 	 	 	 	 prior	 to	 £m	 	 	 	 	 	 acquisition	 Fair 	 value
Non-current	 assets
	 – 	 Intangibles	 	 	 	 	 	 1.0	 12.4
	 – 	 Property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 	 	 	 	 	 1.3	 1.3
Current	 assets
	 – 	 Inventories	 	 	 	 	 	 1.8	 1.8
	 – 	 Trade	 receivables	 	 	 	 	 	 1.7	 1.7
	 – 	 Bank	 and	 cash	 balances	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 –
Current	 liabilities
	 – 	 Trade	 payables	 	 	 	 	 	 (1.5)	 (1.6)
	 – 	 Corporation	 tax	 	 	 	 	 	 (0.6)	 (0.6)
Net	 assets	 acquired	 	 	 	 	 	 3.7	 15.0
Goodwill	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3.1
Total	 consideration	 	 	 	 	 	 	 18.1
The	 above	 amounts	 are	 all	 provisional	 at	 the	 date	 of	 approval	 of	 these	 financial	 statements.	 In	 December	 2007,	 the	 Group	 announced	 agreement	 to	 purchase	 the	 Surveillance	 and	 Attack	 business	 unit	 from	 BAE	 Systems	 Inc	 (Sensor	 and	 Antenna	 Systems	 Lansdale)	 for	 US$240m	 on	 a	 debt	 and	 cash	 free	 basis,	 subject	 to	 regulatory	 approval.	 This	 acquisition	 was	 completed	 on	 22	 February	 2008.	 It	 is	 the	 Directors’	 opinion	 that	 it	 is	 impracticable	 to	 give	 detailed	 disclosure	 	 on	 this	 acquisition	 due	 to	 the	 proximity	 of	 completion	 of	 the	 transaction	 in	 relation	 to	 the	 signing	 of	 the	 Group	 accounts.	 In	 January	 2008,	 the	 agreement	 to	 purchase	 SPARTA	 Inc	 for	 US$416m	 on	 a	 debt	 and	 cash	 free	 basis	 was	 announced,	 subject	 to	 regulatory	 approval.	 US$35m	 of	 this	 consideration	 is	 payable	 over	 the	 first	 three	 years	 following	 completion	 of	 the	 transaction.		 This	 acquisition	 is	 expected	 to	 be	 completed	 in	 the	 second	 quarter	 of	 2008.	 On	 22	 January	 2008,	 the	 Group	 announced	 the	 agreement	 of	 a	 new	 US$700m	 acquisition	 financing	 facility.	 	 39. Subsidiaries
All	 subsidiary	 undertakings	 have	 been	 included	 in	 the	 consolidation.	 The	 undertakings	 held	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 which,	 	 in	 the	 opinion	 of	 the	 Directors,	 principally	 affected	 the	 results	 for	 the	 year	 or	 the	 net	 assets	 of	 the	 Group	 were:
	 	 	 	 Place 	 of	 incorporation	 Proportion	 of	 	 Name	 of	 undertaking	 	 	 	 (or 	 registration)	 and	 operation	 ownership 	 interest	 %
Cobham Avionics & Surveillance
Air	 Précision	 SAS	 	 	 	 France	 100
Artex	 Aircraft	 Supplies	 Inc	 	 	 	 USA	 100
Chelton	 Antennas	 SA	 	 	 	 France	 100
Chelton	 Avionics	 Inc	 	 	 	 USA	 100
Chelton	 Flight	 Systems	 Inc	 	 	 	 USA	 100
Chelton	 Telecom	 &	 Microwave	 SAS	 	 	 	 France	 100
Cobham	 Advanced	 Technologies	 (Southern	 Africa)	 (Proprietary)	 Limited	 	 South	 Africa	 100
Comant	 Industries	 Inc	 	 	 	 USA	 100
Credowan	 Limited	 	 	 	 England	 100
domo	 Limited	 	 	 	 England	 100
DTC	 Communications	 Inc	 	 	 	 USA	 100
ERA	 Technology	 Limited	 	 	 	 England	 100
Hyper-Technologies	 SAS	 	 	 	 France	 100
Label	 SAS	 	 	 	 France	 100
Micromill	 Electronics	 Limited	 	 	 	 England	 100
NEC	 Aero	 SAS	 	 	 	 France	 100
Northern	 Airborne	 Technology	 Limited	 	 	 	 Canada	 99.0
Omnipless	 Manufacturing	 (Proprietary)	 Limited*	 	 	 South	 Africa	 100
Patriot	 Antennas	 Systems	 Inc	 	 	 	 USA	 100
Sea	 Tel	 Inc	 	 	 	 USA	 100
Seimac	 Limited	 	 	 	 Canada	 100
Spectronic	 Denmark	 A/S	 	 	 	 Denmark	 100
TEAM	 SA	 	 	 	 France	 98.7
TracStar	 Systems	 Inc	 	 	 	 	 USA	 100
Notes	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 continued 89	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
39. Subsidiaries (continued)
	 	 	 	 Place 	 of	 incorporation	 Proportion	 of	 	 Name	 of	 undertaking	 	 	 	 (or 	 registration)	 and	 operation	 ownership 	 interest	 %
Cobham Defence Electronic Systems	 	 Atlantic	 Microwave	 Corporation	 	 	 	 USA	 100
Chelton	 Inc	 	 	 	 USA	 100
Chelton	 Limited	 	 	 	 	 England	 100
Cobham	 Advanced	 Composites	 Limited	 	 	 	 England	 100
Cobham	 Defence	 Communications	 Limited	 	 	 	 England	 100
Continental	 Microwave	 &	 Tool	 Co	 Inc	 	 	 	 USA	 100
European	 Antennas	 Limited	 	 	 	 England	 100
Kevlin	 Corporation	 	 	 	 USA	 100
Mastsystem	 International	 Oy	 	 	 	 Finland	 100
Nurad	 Technologies	 Inc	 	 	 	 USA	 100
REMEC	 Defense	 &	 Space	 Inc	 	 	 	 USA	 100
Sivers	 Lab	 AB	 	 	 	 Sweden	 100
	 	 Cobham Mission Systems	 	 ACR	 Electronics	 Inc	 	 	 	 USA	 100
ACR	 Electronics	 Europe	 GmbH	 	 	 	 Austria	 100
Carleton	 Life	 Support	 Systems	 Inc	 	 	 	 USA	 100
Carleton	 Technologies	 Inc	 	 	 	 USA	 	 100
Conax	 Florida	 Corporation	 	 	 	 USA	 100
Flight	 Refuelling	 Limited*	 	 	 	 England	 100
Sargent	 Fletcher	 Inc	 	 	 	 USA	 100
	 	 Cobham Aviation Services	 	 AFI	 Flight	 Inspection	 GmbH	 	 	 	 Germany	 100
Cobham	 Flight	 Inspection	 Limited	 (formerly	 Flight	 Precision	 Limited)	 	 England	 100
FR	 Aviation	 Group	 Limited*	 	 	 	 England	 100
FR	 Aviation	 Limited	 	 	 	 England	 100
FR	 Aviation	 Services	 Limited	 	 	 	 England	 100
National	 Air	 Support	 Pty	 Limited	 	 	 	 Australia	 100
National	 Jet	 Systems	 Pty	 Limited	 	 	 	 Australia	 100
Surveillance	 Australia	 Pty	 Limited	 	 	 	 Australia	 100
In	 the	 case	 of	 the	 companies	 marked	 *,	 the	 stated	 percentage	 nominal	 value	 of	 issued	 shares	 is	 held	 by,	 or	 by	 a	 nominee	 for,	 Cobham	 plc.	 Otherwise	 shares	 are	 held	 by,	 or	 by	 a	 nominee	 for,	 a	 subsidiary	 of	 Cobham	 plc.	 40. Approval of financial statements
The	 financial	 statements	 were	 approved	 by	 the	 Board	 of	 Directors	 and	 authorised	 for	 issue	 on	 14	 March	 2008. 90	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
	 	 	 UK 	 GAAP	 IFRS	 IFRS	 IFRS	 IFRS	 £m	 	 	 2003	 2004	 2005	 2006	 2007
Revenue	 	 	 832.6	 832.3	 970.3	 1,012.1	 1,061.1
Underlying	 profit	 before	 taxation	 	 	 135.3	 142.3	 167.0	 182.9 	 206.5
Profit	 on	 continuing	 operations	 before	 taxation	 	 	 119.8	 134.4	 126.0	 185.2	 173.5
Tax	 on	 continuing	 operations	 	 	 (36.0)	 (38.1)	 (35.3)	 (50.7)	 (47.3)
Profit	 on	 continuing	 operations	 after	 taxation	 	 	 	 83.8	 96.3	 90.7	 134.5	 126.2
Profit/(loss)	 after	 taxation	 from	 discontinued	 operations	 	 (65.3)	 4.3	 7.4	 13.8	 5.8
Profit	 after	 taxation	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 18.5	 100.6	 98.1	 148.3 	 132.0
Net	 assets	 employed
Intangible	 assets	 	 	 345.9	 405.6	 528.1	 482.6	 476.1
Property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 (including	 investment	 properties)	 228.1	 241.9	 206.8	 194.0	 211.0
Investments	 	 	 16.5	 14.2	 14.7	 15.7	 18.8
Other	 non-current	 assets	 	 	 –	 7.3	 19.8	 24.7	 26.0
Current	 assets	 	 	 487.0	 584.0	 649.4	 717.3	 858.9
	 	 	 	 1,077.5	 1,253.0	 1,418.8	 1,434.3	 1,590.8
Current	 liabilities	 	 	 (340.2)	 (445.9)	 (559.6)	 (498.7)	 (560.7)
Long	 term	 liabilities	 	 	 (231.2)	 (203.5)	 (191.1)	 (191.0)	 (188.8)
Net	 assets	 excluding	 pension	 liabilities	 	 	 506.1	 603.6	 668.1	 744.6	 841.3
Pension	 liabilities	 	 	 (49.2)	 (69.1)	 (81.0)	 (29.6)	 (37.2)
Net	 assets	 including	 pension	 liabilities	 	 	 456.9	 534.5	 587.1	 715.0	 804.1
Financed	 by
Ordinary	 share	 capital	 	 	 27.8	 27.9	 28.1	 28.3	 28.4
Reserves	 	 	 428.0	 505.3	 557.5	 686.6	 775.3
Shareholders’	 funds	 	 	 455.8	 533.2	 585.6	 714.9	 803.7
Minority	 interest	 	 	 1.1	 1.3	 1.5	 0.1	 0.4
Net	 assets	 	 	 456.9	 534.5	 587.1	 715.0	 804.1
	 pence
Dividend	 paid	 per	 ordinary	 share	 	 	 2.82	 2.90	 3.19	 3.51	 3.86
Earnings	 per	 ordinary	 share	 –	 underlying	 	 	 9.35	 9.12	 10.58	 11.66	 13.09
Earnings	 per	 ordinary	 share	 –	 basic	 (IFRS-continuing)	 	 1.72	 8.61	 8.05	 11.90	 11.10
Earnings	 per	 ordinary	 share	 –	 fully	 diluted	 (IFRS-continuing)		 1.71	 8.55	 8.01	 11.79	 11.04
Net	 assets	 per	 ordinary	 share	 	 	 41.2	 48.0	 52.4	 63.2	 70.8
	 £m
Market	 capitalisation	 	 	 1,295	 1,381	 1,900	 2,191	 2,373
Notes:  
IFRS	 underlying	 earnings	 exclude	 the	 impacts	 of	 the	 amortisation	 of	 intangible	 assets	 recognised	 on	 acquisition,	 fair	 value	 adjustments	 to	 inventory	 on	 acquisition,	 the	 marking	 to	 market	 of	 currency	 instruments	 not	 realised	 in	 the	 period	 and	 impairments	 of	 goodwill.		 There	 has	 been	 no	 impairment	 to	 goodwill	 in	 the	 current	 or	 comparative	 periods.
IFRS	 underlying	 earnings	 also	 exclude	 portfolio	 restructuring	 costs,	 which	 comprise	 exceptional	 profits	 or	 losses	 arising	 on	 disposals	 actually	 completed	 during	 the	 period,	 as	 well	 as	 exceptional	 costs	 or	 profits	 associated	 with	 the	 restructuring	 of	 	 the	 Group’s	 business	 and	 property	 portfolio,	 and	 direct	 costs	 associated	 with	 exceptional	 terminated	 acquisitions.	 UK	 GAAP	 underlying	 profit	 before	 taxation	 excludes	 amortisation	 of	 goodwill,	 integration	 costs	 and	 exceptional	 items.
Income	 statement	 figures	 reported	 under	 UK	 GAAP	 include	 discontinued	 operations.	 Under	 IFRS	 the	 profit/loss	 for	 	 discontinued	 operations	 is	 disclosed	 separately	 below	 profit	 on	 continuing	 operations	 after	 taxation.
Group	 financial	 record 91	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Independent	 auditors’	 report	 	 to	 the	 members	 of	 Cobham	 plc
We	 have	 audited	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 	 of	 Cobham	 plc	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2007	 which	 comprise	 the	 balance	 sheet,	 the	 statement	 of	 total	 recognised	 gains	 and	 losses,	 the	 reconciliation	 of	 movements	 in	 shareholders’	 funds,	 the	 related	 notes	 and	 the	 accounting	 policies.	 These	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 have	 	 been	 prepared	 under	 the	 accounting	 policies	 set	 out	 therein.	 We	 have	 also	 audited	 the	 information	 in	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 that	 is	 described	 as	 having	 been	 audited.
We	 have	 reported	 separately	 on	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 of	 Cobham	 plc	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2007.	 Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The	 Directors’	 responsibilities	 for	 preparing	 the	 Annual	 Report,	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 and	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 in	 accordance	 with	 applicable	 law	 and	 United	 Kingdom	 Accounting	 Standards	 (United	 Kingdom	 Generally	 Accepted	 Accounting	 Practice)	 are	 set	 out	 in	 the	 statement	 of	 Directors’	 responsibilities.
Our	 responsibility	 is	 to	 audit	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 and	 the	 part	 of	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 to	 be	 audited	 in	 accordance	 with	 relevant	 legal	 and	 regulatory	 requirements	 and	 International	 Standards	 on	 Auditing	 (UK	 and	 Ireland).	 This	 report,	 including	 the	 opinion,	 has	 been	 prepared	 for	 and	 only	 for	 the	 Company’s	 members	 as	 a	 body	 in	 accordance	 with	 Section	 235	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 1985	 and	 for	 no	 other	 purpose.	 We	 do	 not,	 in	 giving	 this	 opinion,	 accept	 or	 assume	 responsibility	 for	 any	 other	 purpose	 or	 to	 any	 other	 person	 to	 whom	 this	 report	 is	 shown	 or	 into	 whose	 hands	 it	 may	 come	 save	 where	 expressly	 agreed	 by	 our	 prior	 consent	 in	 writing.
We	 report	 to	 you	 our	 opinion	 as	 to	 whether	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view	 and	 whether	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 and	 the	 	 part	 of	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 to	 be	 audited	 have	 been	 properly	 prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 Companies	 Act	 1985.	 We	 also	 report	 to	 you	 whether	 in	 our	 opinion	 the	 information	 given	 in	 the	 Directors’	 report	 is	 consistent	 with	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements.	 In	 addition	 we	 report	 to	 you	 if,	 in	 our	 opinion,	 the	 Company	 has	 not	 kept	 proper	 accounting	 records,	 if	 we	 have	 not	 received	 all	 the	 information	 and	 explanations	 we	 require	 for	 our	 audit,	 or	 if	 information	 specified	 by	 law	 regarding	 Directors’	 remuneration	 and	 other	 transactions	 is	 not	 disclosed.
We	 read	 other	 information	 contained	 in	 the	 Annual	 Report	 	 and	 consider	 whether	 it	 is	 consistent	 with	 the	 audited	 	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements.	 The	 other	 information	 comprises	 only	 the	 Highlights	 2007,	 Cobham	 at	 a	 glance,	 the	 Chairman’s	 statement,	 the	 Chief	 Executive’s	 review,	 	 the	 statement	 on	 strategy,	 the	 Business	 review,	 the	 Financial	 review,	 the	 statement	 on	 corporate	 responsibility,	 the	 Directors’	 report,	 the	 Corporate	 governance	 statement	 and	 	 the	 unaudited	 part	 of	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report.	 We	 consider	 the	 implications	 for	 our	 report	 if	 we	 become	 aware	 of	 any	 apparent	 misstatements	 or	 material	 inconsistencies	 with	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements.	 Our	 responsibilities	 do	 not	 extend	 to	 any	 other	 information.
Basis of audit opinion
We	 conducted	 our	 audit	 in	 accordance	 with	 International	 Standards	 on	 Auditing	 (UK	 and	 Ireland)	 issued	 by	 the	 Auditing	 Practices	 Board.	 An	 audit	 includes	 examination,	 on	 a	 test	 basis,	 of	 evidence	 relevant	 to	 the	 amounts	 and	 disclosures	 in	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 and	 the	 part	 of	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 to	 be	 audited.	 It	 also	 includes	 an	 assessment	 of	 the	 significant	 estimates	 and	 judgments	 made	 by	 the	 Directors	 in	 the	 preparation	 of	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements,	 and	 of	 whether	 the	 accounting	 policies	 are	 appropriate	 to	 the	 Company’s	 circumstances,	 consistently	 applied	 and	 adequately	 disclosed.
We	 planned	 and	 performed	 our	 audit	 so	 as	 to	 obtain	 all	 	 the	 information	 and	 explanations	 which	 we	 considered	 necessary	 in	 order	 to	 provide	 us	 with	 sufficient	 evidence	 to	 give	 reasonable	 assurance	 that	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 and	 the	 part	 of	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 to	 be	 audited	 are	 free	 from	 material	 misstatement,	 whether	 caused	 by	 fraud	 or	 other	 irregularity	 or	 error.	 In	 forming	 our	 opinion	 we	 also	 evaluated	 the	 overall	 adequacy	 of	 the	 presentation	 of	 information	 in	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 and	 the	 part	 of	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 to	 be	 audited.
Opinion
In	 our	 opinion:
		 The	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 give	 a	 true	 and	 	 fair	 view,	 in	 accordance	 with	 United	 Kingdom	 Generally	 Accepted	 Accounting	 Practice,	 of	 the	 state	 of	 the	 Company’s	 affairs	 as	 at	 31	 December	 2007;
		 The	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 and	 the	 part	 of	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 to	 be	 audited	 have	 been	 properly	 prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 Companies	 Act	 1985;	 and
		 The	 information	 given	 in	 the	 Directors’	 report	 is	 consistent	 with	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered	 Accountants	 and	 Registered	 Auditors
Southampton
14	 March	 2008
Notes:
		 The	 maintenance	 and	 integrity	 of	 the	 Cobham	 plc	 website	 	 is	 the	 responsibility	 of	 the	 Directors;	 the	 work	 carried	 out	 by	 the	 auditors	 does	 not	 involve	 consideration	 of	 these	 matters	 and,	 accordingly,	 the	 auditors	 accept	 no	 responsibility	 for	 any	 changes	 that	 may	 have	 occurred	 to	 the	 financial	 statements	 since	 they	 were	 initially	 presented	 on	 the	 website.
		 Legislation	 in	 the	 United	 Kingdom	 governing	 the	 preparation	 and	 dissemination	 of	 financial	 statements	 may	 differ	 from	 legislation	 in	 other	 jurisdictions. 92	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Accounting convention
These	 financial	 statements	 have	 been	 prepared	 under	 the	 historical	 cost	 convention,	 as	 modified	 by	 the	 revaluation	 of	 certain	 tangible	 fixed	 assets	 and	 derivative	 contracts	 which	 are	 held	 at	 fair	 value,	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 Companies	 Act	 1985	 and	 applicable	 accounting	 standards	 (UK	 GAAP).	 Compliance	 with	 SSAP	 19,	 Accounting	 for	 investment	 properties,	 requires	 departure	 from	 the	 requirements	 of	 	 the	 Companies	 Act	 1985	 relating	 to	 depreciation	 and	 an	 explanation	 of	 the	 departure	 is	 given	 in	 the	 tangible	 fixed	 assets	 accounting	 policy	 note	 below.
The	 principal	 accounting	 policies,	 which	 have	 been	 consistently	 applied,	 are	 as	 set	 out	 below.
Dividends 
Dividends	 are	 recognised	 in	 the	 period	 in	 which	 they	 are	 	 fully	 authorised.
Pensions
The	 Company	 operates	 and	 contributes	 to	 a	 multi-employer	 defined	 benefit	 pension	 scheme.	 Contributions	 and	 pension	 costs	 are	 apportioned	 across	 the	 scheme	 as	 a	 whole	 and	 assessed	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 advice	 of	 qualified	 actuaries.	 The	 scheme	 is	 closed	 to	 new	 members	 and	 has	 a	 high	 proportion	 of	 deferred	 and	 pensioner	 members	 from	 businesses	 that	 no	 longer	 participate	 in	 the	 scheme.	 The	 Company	 is	 therefore	 not	 able	 to	 identify	 its	 share	 of	 underlying	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 of	 the	 scheme	 on	 a	 reasonable	 and	 consistent	 basis	 and	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 multi-
employer	 exemption	 contained	 in	 FRS	 17,	 Retirement	 benefits,	 the	 scheme	 has	 been	 accounted	 for	 as	 if	 it	 was	 a	 defined	 contribution	 scheme.	 The	 charge	 to	 the	 profit	 and	 	 loss	 account	 therefore	 reflects	 payments	 for	 the	 year.	 Contributions	 to	 defined	 contribution	 schemes	 are	 charged	 	 to	 the	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 in	 the	 period	 the	 contributions	 are	 payable.	 The	 Company	 also	 makes	 contributions	 for	 certain	 employees	 to	 individual	 personal	 pension	 and	 stakeholder	 schemes.	 Contributions	 are	 charged	 to	 the	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 in	 	 the	 year	 to	 which	 they	 relate.
Deferred taxation
Deferred	 tax	 is	 recognised	 in	 respect	 of	 all	 timing	 differences	 that	 have	 originated	 but	 not	 reversed	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date,	 where	 transactions	 or	 events	 that	 result	 in	 an	 obligation	 to	 pay	 more	 tax	 in	 the	 future	 or	 a	 right	 to	 pay	 less	 tax	 in	 the	 future	 have	 occurred	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.
A	 net	 deferred	 tax	 asset	 is	 recognised	 as	 recoverable	 when,	 on	 the	 basis	 of	 all	 available	 evidence,	 it	 can	 be	 regarded	 as	 more	 likely	 than	 not	 that	 there	 will	 be	 suitable	 taxable	 profits	 against	 which	 to	 recover	 carried	 forward	 tax	 losses	 and	 from	 which	 the	 future	 reversal	 of	 underlying	 timing	 differences	 can	 be	 deducted.
Deferred	 tax	 is	 measured	 at	 the	 average	 tax	 rates	 that	 are	 expected	 to	 apply	 in	 the	 periods	 in	 which	 the	 timing	 differences	 are	 expected	 to	 reverse,	 based	 on	 tax	 rates	 and	 laws	 that	 have	 been	 enacted	 or	 substantively	 enacted	 by	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.	 Deferred	 tax	 has	 not	 been	 discounted.
Tangible fixed assets
Plant	 and	 machinery	 fixed	 assets	 are	 depreciated	 on	 a	 	 straight-line	 basis	 to	 their	 estimated	 residual	 values	 over	 	 their	 estimated	 useful	 lives	 which	 range	 from	 three	 to	 five	 years.	 Investment	 properties	 are	 not	 depreciated.	 In	 accordance	 with	 SSAP	 19,	 investment	 properties	 are	 held	 at	 open	 market	 value.	 Any	 aggregate	 surplus	 or	 deficit	 on	 revaluation	 is	 transferred	 to	 a	 revaluation	 reserve,	 and	 no	 provision	 is	 made	 for	 depreciation	 of	 freehold	 properties.	 	 This	 departure	 from	 the	 requirements	 of	 the	 Companies	 	 Act	 1985,	 which	 requires	 all	 properties	 to	 be	 depreciated,	 	 is,	 in	 the	 opinion	 of	 the	 Directors,	 necessary	 for	 the	 financial	 statements	 to	 show	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view	 in	 accordance	 with	 applicable	 accounting	 standards.
The	 depreciation	 (which	 would,	 had	 the	 provisions	 of	 the	 	 Act	 been	 followed,	 have	 reduced	 profit	 for	 the	 year)	 is	 only	 one	 of	 the	 factors	 reflected	 in	 the	 valuation	 and	 the	 amount	 attributable	 to	 this	 factor	 cannot	 reasonably	 be	 separately	 identified	 or	 quantified.
Investments in Group undertakings
Investments	 are	 stated	 at	 cost	 less	 any	 provision	 for	 impairment	 in	 value	 and	 include	 the	 fair	 value	 at	 date	 of	 	 grant	 of	 share	 options	 awarded	 to	 employees	 of	 subsidiary	 undertakings,	 net	 of	 amounts	 recovered	 as	 management	 charges.
Operating leases
Operating	 lease	 payments	 for	 assets	 leased	 from	 third	 parties	 are	 charged	 to	 the	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 on	 a	 straight-line	 basis	 over	 the	 term	 of	 the	 lease.
Provisions
A	 provision	 is	 recognised	 when	 the	 Company	 has	 a	 present	 legal	 or	 constructive	 obligation	 as	 a	 result	 of	 a	 past	 event	 and	 it	 is	 probable	 that	 settlement	 will	 be	 required	 of	 an	 amount	 that	 can	 be	 reliably	 estimated.
Share capital
Ordinary	 share	 capital	 is	 classified	 as	 equity.	 Financial	 liabilities	 and	 equity	 instruments	 are	 classified	 according	 to	 the	 substance	 of	 the	 contractual	 agreements	 entered	 into.	 An	 equity	 instrument	 is	 any	 contract	 that	 evidences	 a	 residual	 interest	 in	 the	 assets	 of	 the	 Company	 after	 deducting	 all	 of	 its	 liabilities.
Preference	 share	 capital	 is	 classified	 as	 a	 liability	 if	 it	 is	 redeemable	 on	 a	 specific	 date	 or	 at	 the	 option	 of	 the	 preference	 shareholders	 or	 if	 dividend	 payments	 are	 not	 discretionary.	 Dividends	 on	 preference	 share	 capital	 classified	 as	 liabilities	 	 are	 recognised	 in	 the	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 as	 interest	 expense.	 	 Foreign currencies
The	 functional	 currency	 of	 the	 Company	 is	 sterling.	 Transactions	 in	 currencies	 other	 than	 the	 local	 currency	 are	 translated	 at	 the	 exchange	 rate	 ruling	 at	 the	 date	 of	 the	 transaction.	 Monetary	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 denoted	 in	 non-
functional	 currencies	 are	 retranslated	 at	 the	 exchange	 rate	 ruling	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date	 and	 any	 exchange	 differences	 arising	 are	 taken	 to	 the	 profit	 and	 loss	 account.	 Accounting	 policies	 93	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
In	 order	 to	 manage	 the	 Group’s	 exposure	 to	 certain	 foreign	 exchange	 risks,	 the	 Company	 enters	 into	 forward	 contracts	 and	 options	 which	 are	 accounted	 for	 as	 derivative	 financial	 instruments.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 
Derivatives	 are	 initially	 recognised	 at	 fair	 value	 on	 the	 date	 a	 derivative	 contract	 is	 entered	 into	 and	 are	 subsequently	 re-
measured	 at	 their	 fair	 value.	 The	 method	 of	 recognising	 the	 resulting	 gain	 or	 loss	 depends	 on	 whether	 the	 derivative	 is	 designated	 as	 a	 hedging	 instrument,	 and	 if	 so,	 the	 nature	 of	 the	 item	 being	 hedged.
The	 Company’s	 activities	 expose	 it	 primarily	 to	 the	 financial	 risks	 of	 changes	 in	 foreign	 currency	 exchange	 rates	 and	 interest	 rates.	 The	 Company	 uses	 foreign	 exchange	 forward	 contracts	 and	 interest	 rate	 swap	 contracts	 to	 reduce	 these	 exposures.	 The	 Company	 does	 not	 use	 derivative	 financial	 instruments	 for	 speculative	 purposes.
The	 Company	 documents	 at	 the	 inception	 of	 the	 transaction	 the	 relationship	 between	 hedging	 instruments	 and	 hedged	 items,	 as	 well	 as	 its	 risk	 management	 objectives	 and	 strategy	 for	 undertaking	 various	 hedge	 transactions.	 The	 Company	 also	 documents	 its	 assessment,	 both	 at	 hedge	 inception	 and	 on	 an	 ongoing	 basis,	 of	 whether	 the	 derivatives	 used	 in	 hedging	 transactions	 are	 highly	 effective	 in	 offsetting	 changes	 in	 fair	 values	 or	 cash	 flows	 of	 hedged	 items.
Currency	 translation	 derivatives	 entered	 into	 to	 mitigate	 foreign	 exchange	 impacts	 of	 trading	 in	 non-functional	 currencies	 are	 not	 accounted	 for	 using	 hedge	 accounting	 and	 movements	 in	 fair	 values	 are	 recognised	 in	 the	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 as	 part	 of	 operating	 profit.
Fair value hedges
Changes	 in	 fair	 values	 of	 derivatives	 that	 are	 designated	 and	 qualify	 as	 fair	 value	 hedges	 are	 recorded	 in	 the	 profit	 and	 loss	 account,	 together	 with	 any	 changes	 in	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 hedged	 asset	 or	 liability	 that	 are	 attributable	 to	 the	 hedged	 risk.	 The	 gains	 or	 losses	 relating	 to	 interest	 rate	 swaps	 hedging	 fixed	 rate	 borrowings	 are	 recognised	 in	 the	 profit	 	 and	 loss	 account.	 If	 the	 hedge	 no	 longer	 meets	 the	 criteria	 for	 hedge	 accounting,	 the	 adjustment	 to	 the	 carrying	 amount	 of	 a	 hedged	 item,	 for	 which	 the	 effective	 interest	 method	 is	 used,	 is	 amortised	 to	 	 the	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 over	 the	 period	 to	 maturity.
Cash flow hedges
The	 effective	 portion	 of	 changes	 in	 fair	 values	 of	 derivatives	 that	 are	 designated	 and	 qualify	 as	 cash	 flow	 hedges	 are	 recognised	 in	 equity.	 The	 gain	 or	 loss	 relating	 to	 the	 ineffective	 portion	 is	 recognised	 immediately	 in	 the	 profit	 and	 loss	 account.	 Amounts	 accumulated	 in	 equity	 are	 	 recycled	 to	 the	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 in	 the	 periods	 	 when	 the	 hedged	 item	 affects	 profit	 or	 loss.
When	 a	 hedging	 instrument	 expires	 or	 is	 sold,	 or	 when	 a	 hedge	 no	 longer	 meets	 the	 criteria	 for	 hedge	 accounting,	 any	 cumulative	 gain	 or	 loss	 existing	 in	 equity	 at	 that	 time	 remains	 in	 equity	 and	 is	 recognised	 when	 the	 forecast	 transaction	 is	 ultimately	 recognised	 in	 the	 profit	 and	 loss	 account.	 	 If	 a	 hedged	 transaction	 is	 no	 longer	 expected	 to	 occur,	 the	 net	 cumulative	 gain	 or	 loss	 recognised	 in	 equity	 is	 immediately	 transferred	 to	 the	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 for	 the	 period.
Share-based payments
For	 grants	 made	 to	 employees	 of	 Cobham	 plc	 under	 the	 Company’s	 share-based	 payment	 schemes,	 amounts	 which	 reflect	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 options	 awarded	 as	 at	 the	 time	 of	 	 grant	 are	 charged	 to	 the	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 over	 the	 vesting	 period.	 The	 fair	 value	 of	 options	 awarded	 to	 employees	 of	 subsidiary	 undertakings,	 net	 of	 amounts	 recovered	 as	 management	 charges,	 is	 recognised	 as	 a	 	 capital	 contribution	 and	 recorded	 in	 investments.
The	 costs	 of	 awards	 made	 to	 employees	 of	 Cobham	 plc	 under	 cash	 settled	 share-based	 payment	 schemes	 are	 measured	 initially	 at	 the	 grant	 date	 and	 expensed	 over	 the	 vesting	 period.	 The	 liability	 is	 remeasured	 at	 each	 balance	 sheet	 date	 up	 to	 and	 including	 the	 settlement	 date	 with	 changes	 in	 fair	 value	 recognised	 through	 the	 profit	 and	 	 loss	 account.
The	 valuation	 of	 the	 options	 utilises	 a	 methodology	 based	 on	 the	 Black-Scholes	 model,	 modified	 where	 required	 to	 allow	 	 for	 the	 impact	 of	 market	 related	 performance	 criteria.	 The	 Company	 has	 taken	 advantage	 of	 the	 transitional	 provisions	 of	 FRS	 20,	 Share-based	 payment,	 in	 respect	 of	 equity	 settled	 awards	 and	 has	 applied	 FRS	 20	 only	 to	 equity	 settled	 awards	 granted	 after	 7	 November	 2002.	 Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Estimates	 and	 judgements	 are	 continually	 evaluated	 and	 are	 based	 on	 historical	 experience	 and	 other	 factors,	 including	 expectations	 of	 future	 events	 that	 are	 believed	 to	 be	 reasonable	 under	 the	 circumstances.	 Management judgement
In	 the	 process	 of	 applying	 the	 Company’s	 accounting	 policies,	 management	 has	 made	 a	 number	 of	 judgements,	 none	 of	 which	 are	 considered	 to	 have	 a	 significant	 effect	 on	 the	 amounts	 recognised	 in	 the	 financial	 statements. 94	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
£m	 	 	 	 	 Note	 2007	 2006
Fixed assets
Investments	 in	 Group	 undertakings	 	 	 	 	 4	 768.7 	 749.7
Tangible	 assets	 	 	 	 	 5	 0.4	 7.4
Financial	 assets:	 Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 	 	 	 12	 7.0	 8.5
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 776.1	 765.6
Current assets
Financial	 assets:	 Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 	 	 	 12	 4.5	 6.7
Debtors	 	 	 	 	 6	 284.7	 387.6
Cash	 at	 bank	 and	 in	 hand	 	 	 	 	 	 380.0	 208.5
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 669.2	 602.8
Creditors:	 Amounts	 falling	 due	 within	 one	 year	 	 	 	 	 7	 (824.7)	 (697.8)
Financial	 liabilities:	 Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 	 	 	 12	 (1.8)	 (1.3)
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (826.5)	 (699.1)
Net current liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 (157.3) 	 (96.3)
 
Total assets less current liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 618.8 	 669.3
Creditors:	 Amounts	 falling	 due	 after	 more	 than	 one	 year	 	 	 	 8	 (117.7)	 (118.6)
Financial	 liabilities:	 Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 	 	 	 12	 (1.9)	 (2.5)
Provisions	 for	 liabilities	 and	 charges	 	 	 	 	 9	 (11.6) 	 (12.9)
Net assets	 	 	 	 	 	 487.6	 535.3
Capital and reserves
Called	 up	 share	 capital	 	 	 	 	 10	 28.4	 28.3
Share	 premium	 account	 	 	 	 	 11	 98.8	 94.2
Special	 reserve	 	 	 	 	 11	 43.6	 43.6
Revaluation	 reserve	 	 	 	 	 11	 –	 2.9
Other	 reserves	 	 	 	 	 11	 12.8	 10.8
Profit	 and	 loss	 account	 	 	 	 	 11	 304.0	 355.5
Total shareholders’ funds 	 	 	 	 	 	 487.6	 535.3
Approved	 by	 a	 duly	 appointed	 and	 authorised	 committee	 of	 the	 Board	 on	 14	 March	 2008	 and	 signed	 on	 its	 behalf	 by:
Gordon Page
Warren Tucker
Directors
Registered	 Number	 in	 England:	 30470
Parent	 company	 balance	 sheet	 (under	 UK	 GAAP)	 As	 at	 31	 December	 2007 95	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
£m	 	 	 	 	 Note	 2007	 2006
(Loss)/profit for the financial year	 	 	 	 	 	 (11.8)	 39.1
Movement	 on	 cash	 flow	 hedges	 	 	 	 	 11	 (1.8)	 0.4
Movement	 on	 deferred	 tax	 relating	 to	 cash	 flow	 hedges	 	 	 	 11	 0.2	 (0.4)
Movement	 on	 current	 tax	 relating	 to	 cash	 flow	 hedges	 	 	 	 11	 0.4	 0.3
Total recognised (losses)/gains relating to the year	 	 	 	 	 (13.0)	 39.4
Reconciliation	 of	 movements	 in	 shareholders’	 funds
For	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2007
£m	 	 	 	 	 Note	 2007	 2006
(Loss)/profit for the financial year	 	 	 	 	 	 (11.8)	 39.1
Dividends	 	 	 	 	 1	 (43.8)	 (39.7)
Net	 deficit	 for	 the	 financial	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 (55.6)	 (0.6)
Issue	 of	 shares	 	 	 	 	 10	 0.1	 0.2
Premium	 on	 issue	 of	 shares	 	 	 	 	 11	 4.6	 6.7
Movements	 in	 hedging	 reserve	 	 	 	 	 11	 (1.2)	 0.3
Credit	 in	 respect	 of	 share-based	 payments	 	 	 	 	 11	 4.4	 3.1
Net (deduction from)/addition to shareholders’ funds 	 	 	 	 (47.7)	 9.7
Shareholders’ funds at 1 January 	 	 	 	 	 	 535.3	 525.6
Shareholders’ funds at 31 December 	 	 	 	 	 	 487.6 	 535.3
(Loss)/profit	 for	 the	 financial	 year	 In	 accordance	 with	 the	 concession	 granted	 under	 Section	 230(1)	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 1985,	 the	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 of	 Cobham	 plc	 has	 not	 been	 separately	 presented	 in	 these	 financial	 statements.	 Note	 of	 historical	 cost	 profits	 and	 losses
For	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2007
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities before taxation	 	 	 	 	 (21.2)	 36.9
Realisation	 of	 property	 revaluation	 gains	 of	 previous	 years	 	 	 	 	 2.9	 –
Difference	 between	 historical	 cost	 depreciation	 charge	 and	 actual	 depreciation	 charge	 for	 the	 year	 	 –	 0.1
Historical cost (loss)/profit on ordinary activities before taxation 	 	 	 (18.3)	 37.0
Historical cost (loss)/profit for the year after taxation 	 	 	 	 (8.9) 	 39.2
Cash	 flow	 statement
In	 accordance	 with	 the	 exemption	 under	 FRS	 1	 (Revised),	 the	 Company’s	 cash	 flow	 statement	 has	 not	 been	 separately	 presented	 in	 these	 financial	 statements.
Statement	 of	 total	 recognised	 gains	 and	 losses
For	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2007 96	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
1. Dividends
The	 following	 dividends	 on	 Ordinary	 Shares	 were	 authorised	 and	 paid	 during	 the	 year:	 £m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Final	 dividend	 of	 2.64p	 per	 share	 for	 2006	 (2005:	 2.40p)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 30.0	 	 27.1
Interim	 dividend	 of	 1.22p	 per	 share	 for	 2007	 (2006:	 1.11p)	 	 	 	 	 	 13.8	 12.6
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 43.8 	 39.7
In	 addition	 to	 the	 above,	 the	 Directors	 are	 proposing	 a	 final	 dividend	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 financial	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2007	 	 of	 3.28	 pence	 per	 share	 which	 will	 absorb	 an	 estimated	 £37.2m	 of	 shareholders’	 funds.	 This	 dividend	 is	 subject	 to	 approval	 by	 shareholders	 at	 the	 Annual	 General	 Meeting	 and	 has	 not	 been	 included	 as	 a	 liability	 in	 these	 financial	 statements.	 If	 authorised,	 it	 will	 be	 paid	 on	 1	 July	 2008	 to	 shareholders	 who	 are	 on	 the	 register	 of	 members	 as	 at	 30	 May	 2008.	 The	 total	 dividend	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 financial	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2007	 will	 therefore	 be	 4.50	 pence	 per	 share	 (2006:	 3.75	 pence).	 The	 total	 amount	 paid	 in	 respect	 of	 2007	 will	 be	 £51.0m	 (2006:	 £42.6m).
2. Employment costs
The	 average	 number	 of	 employees,	 including	 Directors	 during	 the	 year	 was	 60	 (2006:	 54).	 All	 staff	 were	 employed	 in	 administrative	 functions.	 Costs	 for	 these	 employees	 were	 as	 follows:	 £m	 	 	 	 	 Note	 2007	 2006
Wages	 and	 salaries	 	 	 	 	 	 8.6 	 7.9
Social	 security	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 1.0	 0.9
Pension	 costs	 	 	 	 	 	 0.9	 0.7
Share-based	 payments	 	 	 	 	 	 3	 1.4 	 1.1
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 11.9	 10.6
Disclosures	 in	 respect	 of	 Directors’	 emoluments	 can	 be	 found	 in	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 on	 pages	 35	 to	 41	 of	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements.
Disclosures	 in	 respect	 of	 key	 management	 emoluments	 can	 be	 found	 in	 note	 37	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements.
Defined benefit pension scheme
The	 Company	 operates	 and	 participates	 in	 the	 Cobham	 Pension	 Plan.	 The	 pension	 scheme	 is	 of	 the	 defined	 benefit	 type	 and	 	 its	 assets	 are	 held	 in	 a	 separate	 trustee	 administered	 fund.	 The	 fund	 is	 valued	 every	 three	 years	 by	 a	 professionally	 qualified	 independent	 actuary,	 the	 rates	 of	 contribution	 payable	 being	 determined	 by	 the	 actuary.	 The	 latest	 effective	 date	 of	 the	 actuarial	 assessment	 of	 the	 scheme	 was	 1	 April	 2006.	 This	 assessment	 was	 updated	 to	 31	 December	 2007	 at	 which	 date	 the	 net	 liabilities	 of	 the	 scheme	 were	 assessed	 to	 be	 £30.6m.	 The	 Directors	 of	 the	 companies	 involved	 in	 the	 Group	 scheme	 will	 continue	 to	 monitor	 the	 level	 of	 the	 pension	 deficit	 and	 take	 advice	 from	 independent	 actuaries	 as	 appropriate.
The	 scheme	 has	 been	 accounted	 for	 as	 if	 it	 was	 a	 defined	 contribution	 scheme	 and	 the	 charge	 to	 the	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 therefore	 reflects	 payments	 for	 the	 year.
The	 cost	 of	 contributions	 to	 the	 Group	 scheme	 for	 2007	 amounted	 to	 £0.6m	 (2006:	 £0.6m)	 of	 normal	 funding	 and	 a	 special	 contribution	 of	 £5.3m	 (2006:	 £11.5m)	 in	 order	 to	 reduce	 the	 scheme	 deficit.	 Contributions	 to	 current	 benefit	 accruals	 represent	 14.81%	 of	 pensionable	 salary	 (2006:	 16.65%).	 No	 contributions	 were	 outstanding	 at	 the	 end	 of	 2007	 or	 2006.
Defined contribution pension scheme
The	 Company	 also	 operates	 and	 participates	 in	 the	 Cobham	 Pension	 Plan	 Money	 Purchase	 Section.	 The	 assets	 of	 the	 scheme	 	 are	 held	 separately	 from	 those	 of	 the	 Company	 in	 an	 independently	 administered	 fund.	 The	 pension	 costs	 charged	 represent	 contributions	 payable	 by	 the	 Company	 to	 the	 fund	 and	 amounted	 to	 £0.3m	 (2006:	 £0.1m).	 No	 contributions	 were	 outstanding	 	 at	 the	 end	 of	 2007	 or	 2006.
Notes	 to	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements 97	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
3. Share-based payments
Equity settled share-based payment schemes
Employees	 of	 Cobham	 plc	 participate	 in	 the	 following	 incentive	 schemes	 which	 are	 operated	 by	 the	 Group	 for	 certain	 senior	 executives:
	 The	 Cobham	 Performance	 Share	 Plan	 (PSP);
	 The	 Cobham	 Long-Term	 Incentive	 Plan	 (LTIP);	 and	 	 The	 Cobham	 Executive	 Share	 Option	 Scheme	 (ESOS).
The	 PSP	 was	 approved	 at	 the	 AGM	 held	 on	 6	 June	 2007	 and	 replaces	 the	 LTIP	 scheme.
Employees	 also	 participate	 in	 the	 Cobham	 Savings	 Related	 Share	 Option	 Scheme	 (ShareSave)	 operated	 by	 the	 Group	 which	 	 is	 open	 to	 all	 employees	 of	 participating	 subsidiaries.	 The	 Company	 recognised	 total	 expenses	 of	 £1.4m	 (2006:	 £1.1m)	 related	 to	 equity	 settled	 share-based	 payment	 transactions	 during	 the	 year.	 Further	 details	 of	 these	 schemes	 can	 be	 found	 in	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 on	 pages	 35	 to	 41	 and	 in	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 on	 pages	 63	 to	 66.
Details	 of	 the	 share	 options	 held	 by	 the	 Company’s	 employees	 are	 as	 follows:
Number	 of	 share	 options	 	 	 	 PSP	 LTIP	 ESOS	 ShareSave
At	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 	 –	 2,866,550 	 	 2,615,096 	 	 227,674	 Awards	 granted	 	 	 	 –	 778,082 	 	 1,123,712 	 	 66,319	 Awards	 forfeited	 	 	 	 –	 –	 (2,870)	 (7,540)
Exercised	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 (48,290)	 (21,880)
Expired	 	 	 	 	 –	 (963,590)	 –	 –	 At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 –	 2,681,042 	 	 3,687,648 	 	 264,573	 Awards	 granted	 	 	 	 907,730 	 	 –	 1,469,814 	 	 70,542	 Awards	 forfeited	 	 	 	 (35,697)	 (135,997)	 (172,412)	 (9,779)
Exercised	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 (687,320)	 (30,380)
Expired	 	 	 	 	 –	 (939,720)	 –	 –	 Employees	 transferred	 from	 other	 Group	 companies	 	 	 –	 158,862 	 	 661,745 	 	 –	 At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 872,033 	 	 1,764,187 	 	 4,959,475 	 	 294,956	 	 Exercisable	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 –	 –	 1,104,300 	 	 –	 Exercisable	 at	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 –	 –	 373,800 	 	 –	 The	 weighted	 average	 remaining	 contractual	 life	 in	 years	 of	 awards	 is	 as	 follows:
Outstanding	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 2.38	 0.79	 8.00	 2.55
Outstanding	 at	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 –	 1.30	 8.28	 2.73
Under	 the	 ESOS	 and	 ShareSave	 schemes,	 exercises	 were	 made	 at	 various	 times	 throughout	 the	 year.	 The	 average	 share	 price	 in	 that	 period	 was	 £2.036	 (2006:	 £1.777).	 All	 awards	 under	 the	 PSP	 and	 LTIP	 schemes	 have	 a	 nil	 exercise	 price.	 The	 weighted	 average	 exercise	 prices	 of	 awards	 under	 the	 ESOS	 and	 ShareSave	 schemes	 are	 as	 follows:
£	 	 	 	 	 	 ESOS	 ShareSave
At	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 1.316 	 	 0.999	 Awards	 granted	 	 	 	 	 	 1.858 	 	 1.530	 Awards	 forfeited	 	 	 	 	 	 1.186 	 	 1.240	 Exercised	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.134 	 	 0.717	 At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 1.484	 	 1.148	 Awards	 granted	 	 	 	 	 	 2.045	 	 1.630	 Awards	 forfeited	 	 	 	 	 	 1.603	 	 1.146
Exercised	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.192	 	 0.875
Employees	 transferred	 from	 other	 Group	 companies	 	 	 	 	 1.400	 	 –	 At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 1.663	 	 1.292	 Exercisable	 as	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 1.352	 	 –	 Exercisable	 as	 at	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 1.125 	 	 –	 98	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
3. Share-based payments (continued)
The	 range	 of	 exercise	 prices	 for	 ESOS	 and	 ShareSave	 awards	 are	 as	 follows:
£	 	 	 	 	 	 ESOS	 ShareSave
Outstanding	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 Lowest	 exercise	 price	 	 	 	 	 	 1.347	 0.769
Highest	 exercise	 price	 	 	 	 	 	 2.045	 1.630
Outstanding	 at	 31	 December	 2006
Lowest	 exercise	 price	 	 	 	 	 	 0.912	 0.691
Highest	 exercise	 price	 	 	 	 	 	 1.898	 1.530
Details,	 including	 methods	 and	 assumptions	 used	 in	 the	 calculation	 of	 fair	 values,	 of	 the	 awards	 granted	 during	 the	 current	 and	 comparative	 year	 are	 shown	 in	 note	 11	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements.	 	 	 Cash settled share-based payment schemes
One	 employee	 of	 the	 Company	 participated	 in	 the	 Group’s	 share	 appreciation	 rights	 (SARs)	 plan	 in	 2006	 and	 was	 granted	 16,867	 SARs	 on	 14	 November	 2006.	 The	 number	 of	 awards	 outstanding	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 was	 16,867	 (2006:	 16,867).	 These	 have	 an	 exercise	 price	 of	 £1.898	 and	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 each	 SAR	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 was	 £0.51	 (2006:	 £0.52).	 The	 expense	 for	 the	 year	 for	 these	 rights	 totalled	 £3,000	 (2006:	 £3,000)	 and	 is	 based	 on	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 outstanding	 liability	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date	 of	 £6,000	 (2006:	 £3,000).	 No	 awards	 were	 made	 under	 this	 scheme	 in	 2007	 to	 employees	 of	 Cobham	 plc.
Further	 details,	 including	 methods	 and	 assumptions	 used	 in	 the	 calculation	 of	 fair	 values,	 of	 the	 SARs	 can	 be	 found	 in	 note	 11	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements.	 4. Investments in Group undertakings
£m	 	 	 	 	 Shares	 Options	 Total
At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 	 742.7	 7.0	 749.7
Additions	 in	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 16.5	 –	 16.5
Options	 granted	 to	 employees	 of	 subsidiary	 undertakings	 	 	 	 –	 2.5	 2.5
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 759.2	 9.5	 768.7
The	 Directors	 consider	 that	 the	 carrying	 value	 of	 investments	 is	 not	 less	 than	 their	 fair	 value.	 The	 market	 capitalisation	 of	 the	 Group	 as	 a	 whole	 is	 given	 in	 the	 Group	 financial	 record	 on	 page	 90.
A	 list	 of	 significant	 subsidiaries	 is	 provided	 in	 note	 39	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements.
5. Tangible fixed assets
	 	 	 	 	 	 Plant	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Investment	 and	 	 £m	 	 	 	 	 properties	 machinery	 Total
Cost or valuation
At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 	 7.0	 0.8	 7.8
Additions	 	 	 	 	 –	 0.2	 0.2
Disposals	 	 	 	 	 (7.0)	 (0.1)	 (7.1)
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 –	 0.9	 0.9
Accumulated depreciation
At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 	 –	 0.4	 0.4
Charge	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 –	 0.1	 0.1
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 –	 0.5	 0.5
Net book amount
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 –	 0.4	 0.4
At	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 	 7.0	 0.4	 7.4
The	 Company	 had	 capital	 commitments	 of	 £0.5m	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 (2006:	 £0.1m).
During	 the	 finanical	 year,	 the	 investment	 property	 was	 sold	 to	 a	 subsidiary	 at	 book	 value	 which	 approximated	 to	 fair	 value	 at	 the	 date	 of	 disposal.	 In	 2006,	 the	 investment	 property	 had	 a	 historical	 cost	 of	 £4.1m.	 Notes	 to	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 continued 99	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
6. Debtors
£m	 	 	 	 	 Note	 2007	 2006
Amounts	 owed	 by	 subsidiary	 undertakings	 	 	 	 	 	 276.8	 376.3
Prepayments	 and	 accrued	 income	 	 	 	 	 	 2.1	 2.4
Corporation	 tax	 receivable	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 4.7
Deferred	 tax	 	 	 	 	 9	 5.8	 4.2
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 284.7	 387.6
Interest	 is	 charged	 on	 amounts	 owed	 by	 subsidiary	 undertakings	 at	 rates	 varying	 between	 6%	 and	 9%.	 These	 amounts	 are	 unsecured	 and	 are	 repayable	 on	 demand.
The	 Directors	 consider	 that	 the	 carrying	 value	 of	 debtors	 approximates	 to	 their	 fair	 value.	 All	 amounts	 are	 due	 within	 one	 year.
7. Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Bank	 overdrafts	 	 	 	 	 	 310.8	 207.2
Bank	 loans	 repayable	 on	 demand	 	 	 	 	 	 226.4	 217.3
Senior	 notes	 	 	 	 	 	 2.5	 1.9
Total	 borrowings	 	 	 	 	 	 539.7 	 426.4
Trade	 creditors	 	 	 	 	 	 1.8	 2.6
Amounts	 owed	 to	 subsidiary	 undertakings	 	 	 	 	 	 262.3	 260.0
Payroll	 and	 other	 taxes,	 including	 social	 security	 	 	 	 	 0.8 	 0.4
Corporation	 tax	 payable	 	 	 	 	 	 7.1	 –
Accruals	 and	 deferred	 income	 	 	 	 	 	 13.0	 8.4
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 824.7	 697.8
Bank	 loans	 repayable	 on	 demand	 include	 a	 five-year	 £300m	 revolving	 multi-currency	 credit	 facility	 entered	 into	 for	 general	 corporate	 purposes	 in	 2005,	 with	 extensions	 of	 up	 to	 two	 years	 at	 the	 option	 of	 the	 lenders.	 During	 2006	 and	 2007	 the	 facility	 	 was	 extended	 by	 one	 year	 and	 now	 expires	 in	 2012.	 Interest	 is	 payable	 at	 the	 applicable	 LIBOR	 rate	 of	 the	 drawn	 currencies,	 	 plus	 margin.	 As	 at	 31	 December	 2007,	 £226.4m	 (2006:	 £217.3m)	 had	 been	 drawn	 on	 this	 facility.	 Senior	 notes	 falling	 due	 within	 one	 year	 and	 repayable	 by	 instalments	 were	 issued	 in	 March	 1996	 and	 comprised	 two	 tranches	 	 of	 notes	 of	 US$25m	 each,	 one	 of	 which	 has	 been	 repaid	 in	 full.	 The	 remaining	 notes,	 of	 which	 US$20m	 has	 been	 repaid,	 	 are	 repayable	 within	 one	 year.	 These	 notes	 carry	 a	 fixed	 interest	 rate	 of	 6.42%.	 	 Interest	 is	 payable	 on	 amounts	 owed	 to	 subsidiary	 undertakings	 at	 rates	 varying	 between	 5%	 and	 8%.	 These	 amounts	 are	 unsecured	 and	 are	 repayable	 on	 demand.
The	 Directors	 consider	 that	 the	 carrying	 value	 of	 creditors	 not	 held	 at	 fair	 value	 approximates	 to	 their	 fair	 value.
8. Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Senior	 notes	 	 	 	 	 	 114.3 	 115.2
Amounts	 owed	 to	 subsidiary	 undertakings	 	 	 	 	 	 3.4 	 3.4
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 117.7	 118.6
Senior	 notes	 falling	 due	 after	 more	 than	 one	 year	 were	 issued	 in	 October	 2002	 and	 are	 repayable	 on	 maturity.	 The	 facility	 comprises	 two	 tranches	 of	 notes;	 one	 for	 US$55m	 which	 has	 a	 bullet	 repayment	 after	 seven	 years	 and	 the	 other	 for	 US$170m	 which	 has	 a	 bullet	 repayment	 after	 ten	 years.	 The	 notes	 carry	 a	 fixed	 interest	 rate	 of	 5.14%	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 seven-year	 notes	 and	 a	 rate	 of	 5.58%	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 ten-year	 notes.	 These	 fixed	 rates	 have	 been	 swapped	 into	 rates	 that	 vary	 with	 LIBOR.
Senior	 notes	 falling	 due	 after	 more	 than	 one	 year	 are	 repayable	 as	 follows:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Between	 one	 and	 two	 years	 	 	 	 	 	 27.9	 1.9
Between	 two	 and	 five	 years	 	 	 	 	 	 86.4	 26.7
After	 five	 years	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 86.6
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 114.3	 115.2
The	 Directors	 consider	 that	 the	 carrying	 value	 of	 creditors	 approximates	 to	 their	 fair	 value. 100	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
9. Provisions for liabilities and charges
£m	 	 	 	 	 Deferred 	 tax	 Other	 Total
At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 	 4.3	 8.6	 12.9
Credit	 to	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 	 	 	 	 (1.3)	 –	 (1.3)
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 3.0	 8.6	 11.6
Other provisions
Other	 provisions	 relate	 to	 indemnities	 given	 on	 the	 disposal	 of	 the	 Fluid	 and	 Air	 group	 in	 2005.	 All	 amounts	 have	 been	 determined	 based	 on	 the	 Directors’	 current	 estimates	 of	 likely	 outcomes	 and	 are	 expected	 to	 unwind	 over	 a	 period	 of	 more	 than	 one	 year.
Deferred taxation
£m	 	 	 	 	 Note	 2007	 2006
Deferred	 tax	 assets	 	 	 	 	 6	 5.8	 4.2
Deferred	 tax	 liabilities	 	 	 	 	 	 (3.0)	 (4.3)
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2.8	 (0.1)
The	 net	 amount	 provided	 for	 represents:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Accelerated	 capital	 allowances	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 (0.6)
Other	 timing	 differences	 	 	 	 	 	 2.8 	 0.5
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2.8	 (0.1)
Deferred	 tax	 assets	 relate	 primarily	 to	 deferred	 taxation	 on	 pension	 and	 share-based	 payments,	 and	 are	 expected	 to	 reverse	 over	 a	 period	 of	 up	 to	 ten	 years.	 Movements	 in	 deferred	 tax	 assets	 are	 as	 follows:
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Total
At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4.2
Credit	 to	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1.6
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5.8
10. Share capital
£m	 	 	 	 	 	 2007	 2006
Authorised
Equity
1,479,200,000	 (2006:	 1,479,200,000)	 Ordinary	 Shares	 of	 par	 value	 2.5p	 	 	 	 37.0	 37.0
Non	 equity
20,000	 (2006:	 20,000)	 6%	 second	 cumulative	 preference	 shares	 of	 £1	 	 	 	 –	 –
Allotted, issued and fully paid
Equity
1,135,355,340	 (2006:	 1,130,609,139)	 2.5p	 Ordinary	 Shares	 	 	 	 	 28.4	 28.3
Non	 equity
19,700	 (2006:	 19,700)	 6%	 second	 cumulative	 preference	 shares	 of	 £1	 	 	 	 –	 –
The	 Company	 has	 one	 class	 of	 Ordinary	 Shares	 which	 carry	 no	 right	 to	 fixed	 income,	 representing	 99.9%	 of	 the	 total	 issued	 share	 capital.	 On	 a	 show	 of	 hands	 every	 member	 holding	 Ordinary	 Shares	 who	 is	 present	 in	 person	 or	 by	 a	 duly	 authorised	 representative	 has	 one	 vote	 and	 on	 a	 poll	 every	 member	 who	 is	 present	 in	 person	 or	 by	 proxy	 has	 one	 vote	 for	 every	 £1	 in	 nominal	 value	 of	 the	 shares	 of	 which	 the	 member	 is	 the	 holder.
During	 the	 year,	 2,232,859	 (2006:	 4,872,201)	 Ordinary	 Shares	 were	 issued	 in	 connection	 with	 the	 Cobham	 Savings	 Related	 Share	 Option	 Scheme	 (ShareSave)	 and	 2,513,342	 (2006:	 2,877,448)	 were	 issued	 in	 connection	 with	 the	 Executive	 Share	 Option	 Schemes.	 The	 nominal	 value	 of	 such	 shares	 was	 £0.1m	 (2006:	 £0.2m)	 and	 the	 cash	 consideration	 received	 net	 of	 costs	 was	 £4.7m	 (2006:	 £6.9m).
19,700	 6%	 second	 cumulative	 preference	 shares	 have	 been	 issued,	 representing	 0.1%	 of	 the	 total	 issued	 share	 capital.	 	 These	 are	 non-redeemable	 and	 are	 classified	 as	 borrowings	 with	 a	 value	 of	 £19,700.
The	 shareholders	 of	 the	 6%	 second	 cumulative	 preference	 shares	 are	 entitled	 to	 receive	 a	 fixed	 cumulative	 preference	 dividend	 at	 the	 rate	 of	 6%	 per	 annum	 in	 priority	 to	 the	 payment	 of	 dividends	 on	 the	 Ordinary	 Shares.	 In	 addition,	 on	 a	 return	 of	 assets	 on	 the	 liquidation	 or	 otherwise	 of	 the	 Company,	 the	 assets	 available	 for	 distribution	 are	 to	 be	 applied	 first	 in	 repaying	 to	 the	 holders	 of	 the	 6%	 second	 cumulative	 preference	 shares	 the	 amounts	 paid	 up	 on	 their	 shares.	 On	 a	 show	 of	 hands	 every	 member	 holding	 6%	 second	 cumulative	 preference	 shares	 who	 is	 present	 in	 person	 has	 one	 vote	 and	 on	 a	 poll,	 every	 member	 has	 one	 vote	 for	 every	 £1	 in	 nominal	 amount	 of	 the	 shares	 of	 which	 the	 member	 is	 the	 holder.	 Notes	 to	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 continued 101	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
11. Reserves
	 	 	 	 	 	 Other	 reserves	 	 	 	 	 Share	 	 	 	 Share	 Profit	 	 	 	 	 premium	 Special	Revaluation	 Hedging	 option	 and	 loss	 £m		 	 Note	 account	 reserve	 reserve	 reserve	 reserve	 account
At	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 87.5	 43.6	 2.9	 1.2	 6.2	 356.1
Profit	 for	 the	 financial	 year	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –	 39.1
Dividends	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –	 (39.7)
Premium	 on	 issue	 of	 shares	 	 	 6.7	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –
Movement	 in	 fair	 value	 of	 cash	 flow	 hedging	 derivatives	 	 12	 –	 –	 –	 1.3	 –	 –
Tax	 effect	 of	 movement	 in	 fair	 value	 of	 cash	 flow	 hedging	 derivatives	 	 –	 –	 –	 (0.4)	 –	 –
Recycling	 of	 fair	 values	 to	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 	 12	 –	 –	 –	 (0.9)	 –	 –
Tax	 effect	 of	 recycling	 of	 fair	 values	 to	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 	 –	 –	 –	 0.3	 –	 –
Credit	 to	 reserves	 for	 the	 year	 for	 share-based	 payments	 	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 –	 3.1	 –
At	 1	 January	 2007	 	 	 94.2	 43.6	 2.9	 1.5	 9.3	 355.5
Loss	 for	 the	 financial	 year	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –	 (11.8)
Dividends	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –	 (43.8)
Transfer	 of	 realised	 revaluation	 reserve	 	 	 –	 –	 (2.9)	 –	 –	 2.9
Premium	 on	 issue	 of	 shares	 	 	 4.6	 –	 –	 –	 –	 –
Movement	 in	 fair	 value	 of	 cash	 flow	 hedging	 derivatives	 	 12	 –	 –	 –	 (0.6)	 –	 –
Tax	 effect	 of	 movement	 in	 fair	 value	 of	 cash	 flow	 hedging	 derivatives	 	 –	 –	 –	 0.2	 –	 –
Recycling	 of	 fair	 values	 to	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 	 12	 –	 –	 –	 (1.2)	 –	 –
Tax	 effect	 of	 recycling	 of	 fair	 values	 to	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 	 –	 –	 –	 0.4	 –	 –
Credit	 to	 reserves	 for	 the	 year	 for	 share-based	 payments	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 –	 4.4	 –
Transfer	 of	 realised	 share	 option	 reserve	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 –	 (1.2)	 1.2
At	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 98.8	 43.6	 –	 0.3	 12.5	 304.0
The	 impact	 of	 foreign	 exchange	 to	 the	 (loss)/profit	 for	 the	 financial	 year	 is	 a	 £0.4m	 loss	 (2006:	 £1.9m	 gain).
Reserves	 are	 wholly	 attributable	 to	 equity	 interests.
The	 special	 reserve	 was	 created	 in	 1996,	 with	 the	 sanction	 of	 the	 High	 Court,	 against	 which	 goodwill	 arising	 on	 subsequent	 acquisitions	 may	 be	 charged	 .
The	 share	 option	 reserve	 relates	 to	 provisions	 made	 in	 accordance	 with	 FRS	 20	 for	 shares	 allocated	 to	 the	 Company’s	 employees	 under	 the	 Group’s	 share	 option	 schemes.	 Where	 share	 options	 which	 gave	 rise	 to	 charges	 under	 FRS	 20	 have	 been	 exercised,	 the	 appropriate	 proportion	 of	 the	 share	 option	 reserve	 is	 transferred	 to	 retained	 earnings.
12. Derivative financial instruments
Movements in fair values
	 	 	 	 Interest	 rate	 swaps	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Currency	 	 	 	 	 Cash	 flow	 Fair 	 value	 translation	 	 £m	 	 	 	 hedge	 hedge	 derivatives	 Total
Fair	 value	 at	 1	 January	 2006	 	 	 	 1.7	 (2.5)	 1.4	 0.6
Movements	 in	 year	 to	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Fair 	 value	 gain/(loss)	 through	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 	 	 (0.9)	 (0.6)	 11.0	 9.5
	 Fair 	 value	 gain	 through	 reserves	 	 	 	 1.3	 –	 –	 1.3
Fair	 value	 at	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 2.1	 (3.1)	 12.4	 11.4
Movements	 in	 year	 to	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Fair 	 value	 gain/(loss)	 through	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 	 	 (1.2)	 4.2	 (6.0)	 (3.0)
	 Fair	 value	 loss	 through	 reserves	 	 	 	 (0.6)	 –	 –	 (0.6)
Fair	 value	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 0.3	 1.1	 6.4	 7.8
Interest	 rate	 swaps	 are	 designated	 as	 fair	 value	 and	 cash	 flow	 hedging	 instruments	 and	 hedge	 accounting	 is	 applied.	 	 Movements	 in	 fair	 values	 are	 matched	 against	 the	 corresponding	 liability	 or	 reflected	 in	 reserves	 as	 appropriate.	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Currency	 translation	 derivatives	 are	 not	 accounted	 for	 using	 hedge	 accounting	 and	 movements	 in	 fair	 values	 are	 reflected	 in	 	 the	 profit	 and	 loss	 account.
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 The	 fair	 values	 of	 the	 currency	 and	 interest	 rate	 derivatives	 are	 established	 using	 valuation	 techniques,	 primarily	 discounting	 	 cash	 flows,	 based	 on	 assumptions	 that	 are	 supported	 by	 observable	 market	 prices	 or	 rates. 102	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
12. Derivative financial instruments (continued)
Balance sheet analysis
	 	 	 	 Interest	 rate	 swaps	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Currency	 	 	 	 	 	 Cash	 flow	 Fair 	 value	 translation	 	 £m	 	 	 	 hedge	 hedge	 derivatives	 Total
Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 –	 fixed	 assets		 	 	 2.1	 0.8	 4.1	 7.0
Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 –	 current	 assets	 	 	 0.2	 0.3	 4.0	 4.5
Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 –	 current	 liabilities	 	 	 (0.8)	 –	 (1.0)	 (1.8)
Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 –	 non-current	 liabilities	 	 	 (1.2)	 –	 (0.7)	 (1.9)
Fair	 value	 at	 31	 December	 2007	 	 	 	 0.3	 1.1	 6.4	 7.8
Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 –	 fixed	 assets		 	 	 1.6	 –	 6.9	 8.5
Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 –	 current	 assets	 	 	 0.6	 –	 6.1	 6.7
Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 –	 current	 liabilities	 	 	 –	 (0.7)	 (0.6)	 (1.3)
Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 –	 non-current	 liabilities	 	 	 (0.1)	 (2.4)	 –	 (2.5)
Fair	 value	 at	 31	 December	 2006	 	 	 	 2.1	 (3.1)	 12.4	 11.4
13. Contingent liabilities
The	 Company	 has	 contingent	 liabilities	 in	 respect	 of	 bank	 and	 contractual	 performance	 guarantees	 and	 other	 matters	 arising	 in	 the	 ordinary	 course	 of	 business	 entered	 into,	 for,	 or	 on	 behalf	 of,	 certain	 Group	 undertakings.	 As	 the	 conditions	 of	 the	 above	 guarantees	 are	 currently	 being	 met,	 no	 obligating	 event	 is	 forseeable	 and	 therefore	 no	 contingent	 liability	 exists	 at	 the	 year	 end.
14. Related party transactions
The	 Directors	 of	 Cobham	 plc	 had	 no	 material	 transactions	 with	 the	 Company	 during	 the	 year,	 other	 than	 as	 a	 result	 of	 service	 agreements	 as	 disclosed	 in	 note	 37	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements.	 Details	 of	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 are	 disclosed	 in	 	 the	 remuneration	 report.	 Exemption	 has	 been	 taken	 under	 FRS	 8	 from	 disclosing	 related	 party	 transactions	 with	 other	 	 Group	 companies.
15. Events after the balance sheet date
Since	 the	 end	 of	 the	 financial	 year,	 the	 Company	 has	 concluded	 a	 US$700m	 acquisition	 financing	 facility	 through	 to	 30	 June	 2009.	 The	 facility	 is	 provided	 by	 Barclays	 Capital,	 BNP	 Paribas,	 Dresdner	 Kleinwort	 and	 Royal	 Bank	 of	 Scotland.	 This	 new	 	 facility	 provides	 capacity	 to	 fund	 recent,	 as	 mentioned	 in	 note	 38	 to	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements,	 and	 future	 acquisitions.
Notes	 to	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 continued 103	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007
Shareholder	 information
Analysis of shareholders
(a)	 At	 31	 December	 2007,	 6,275	 ordinary	 shareholders	 were	 on	 the	 register	 compared	 with	 6,077	 at	 31	 December	 2006.
(b)	 Analysis	 of	 ordinary	 shareholders	 on	 the	 register	 at	 31	 December	 2007:
	 	 	 	 	 	 Percentage	 Number 	 of	 Percentage	 	 	 	 	 	 Number 	 of	 registered 	 	 Ordinary	 of 	 Ordinary	 	 	 	 	 	 registered	 holders	 Shares	 Shares	
	 	 	 	 	 holders	 %	 held	 %
Size of holding
Up	 to	 1,000	 	 	 	 1,622	 25.85	 801,676	 0.07
1,001	 –	 10,000	 	 	 	 3,239	 51.62	 12,515,068	 1.10
10,001	 –	 50,000	 	 	 	 824	 13.13	 17,826,918	 1.57
50,001	 –	 250,000	 	 	 	 297	 4.73	 35,478,920	 3.13
250.001	 –	 1,000,000	 	 	 	 139	 2.22	 75,741,180	 6.67
1,000,001	 and	 above	 	 	 	 154	 2.45	 992,991,578	 87.46
	 	 	 	 	 6,275	 100.00	 1,135,355,340	 100.00
Category
Private	 persons	 	 	 	 4,178	 66.58	 28,693,101	 2.53
Nominees	 	 	 	 1,971	 31.41	 1,085,397,640	 95.60
Pension	 funds	 	 	 	 2	 0.03	 2,060	 0.00
Other	 corporate	 bodies	 	 	 	 124	 1.98	 21,262,539	 1.87
	 	 	 	 	 6,275	 100.00	 1,135,355,340	 100.00
	 Source:	 Equiniti	 Limited	 Registrars 
Enquiries	 concerning	 shareholdings	 or	 dividends	 should,	 in	 	 the	 first	 instance,	 be	 addressed	 to	 the	 Company’s	 registrars,	 Equiniti	 Limited,	 Aspect	 House,	 Spencer	 Road,	 Lancing,	 West	 Sussex	 BN99	 6DA	 (telephone:	 0871	 384	 2163).	 Shareholders	 should	 promptly	 notify	 the	 registrars	 of	 any	 change	 of	 address	 or	 other	 particulars.	 The	 registrars	 provide	 a	 range	 of	 shareholders’	 services	 on-line.	 The	 portfolio	 service	 provides	 access	 to	 information	 on	 investments	 including	 balance	 movements,	 indicative	 share	 prices	 and	 information	 on	 recent	 dividends	 and	 also	 enables	 address	 and	 mandate	 details	 to	 be	 amended	 on-line.	 For	 further	 information	 and	 practical	 help	 on	 transferring	 shares	 or	 updating	 your	 details,	 please	 visit	 www.shareview.co.uk.	 The	 share	 dealing	 service	 enables	 shares	 to	 be	 sold	 by	 UK	 shareholders	 by	 telephone	 or	 over	 the	 internet.	 For	 telephone	 sales	 please	 call	 08456	 037037	 between	 8.30	 a.m.	 and	 4.30	 p.m.	 For
internet	 sales	 please	 visit	 www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
Registered Office
Brook	 Road,	 Wimborne,	 Dorset	 BH21	 2BJ
Tel:	 +44	 (0)1202	 882020
Fax:	 +44	 (0)1202	 840523
Internet:	 www.cobham.com
Registered	 in	 England	 No.	 30470
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)
The	 Company	 has	 introduced	 corporate	 sponsored	 ISAs	 through	 The	 Share	 Centre	 Limited,	 an	 independent	 stockbroker.	 Further	 information	 may	 be	 obtained	 from	 	 The	 Share	 Centre	 Limited	 on	 +44	 (0)1296	 414141	 or	 by	 writing	 to	 The	 Share	 Centre	 Limited,	 PO	 Box	 2000,	 Aylesbury,	 Bucks	 HP21	 8ZB.	 Alternatively,	 details	 can	 be	 requested	 via	 email:	 cobham@share.co.uk.
Capital Gains Tax
For	 the	 information	 of	 shareholders	 who	 held	 Cobham	 plc	 Ordinary	 Shares	 on	 31	 March	 1982,	 the	 market	 value,	 adjusted	 for	 capitalisation	 and	 rights	 issues,	 of	 the	 Company’s	 Ordinary	 Shares	 on	 that	 date	 for	 capital	 gains	 tax	 purposes,	 unadjusted	 for	 the	 share	 sub-division	 of	 July	 2005,	 was	 86.02p.
Financial Calendar
AGM	 7	 May	 2008
Final	 dividend	 	 1	 July	 2008
Interim	 results	 7	 August	 2008
Interim	 dividend	 December	 2008 104	 Cobham 	 plc	 Annual 	 Report	 and	 Accounts	 2007 Cobham’s products and services have been  
at the heart of sophisticated military and civil 
systems for more than 70 years, keeping 
people safe, improving communications and 
enhancing the capability of land, sea, air and 
space platforms. The Group has four divisions 
now employing more than ten thousand 
people on five continents, with customers  
and partners in over 100 countries.  
Corporate governance 
26 Board of Directors
28 Directors’ report
31 Corporate governance
35 Directors’ remuneration report 
42 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Group financial statements
43 Independent auditors’ report
44 Accounting policies
50 Consolidated income statement 
51 Consolidated balance sheet 
52 Consolidated cash flow statement 
53  Consolidated statement of recognised income  
and expense
54 Notes to the Group financial statements 
90 Group financial record 
Parent company financial statements
91 Independent auditors’ report
92 Accounting policies
94 Parent company balance sheet
95 Statement of total recognised gains and losses
95 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
96 Notes to the parent company financial statements
103 Shareholder information 
Business overview 
1 Highlights 2007
2 Cobham at a glance
4 Chairman’s statement
5  Chief Executive’s review
8 Strategy
Business review 
10 Cobham Avionics and Surveillance
12 Cobham Defence Electronic Systems
14 Cobham Mission Systems
16 Cobham Aviation Services
18 Financial review
23  Corporate responsibility
Front cover image: Cobham provides Non  
Line of Sight Digital Communication Solutions 
for Unmanned Vehicles such as the HD-1.  
Photo courtesy of Remotec Inc, a subsidiary  
of the Northrop Grumman Corporation.
Designed and produced by Addison Corporate Marketing Ltd
Printed by Royle Print
The paper used in this report is produced from 50% recovered 
waste and 50% virgin fibre. The pulp is bleached using an 
Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) process. The Forest Stewardship 
Council have given this paper their Mixed Sources accreditation, 
acknowledging it has been produced from recycled fibre, well 
managed forests and other controlled sources. The paper mill 
and printer are certified to the ISO14001 environmental 
management standard.
This report is fully recyclable – when you have finished with it, 
please pass it on to other interested parties or dispose of it in 
your recycled paper waste. Cobham plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2007
The most important  
thing we build is trust
Cobham plc
Brook Road
Wimborne
Dorset
England 
BH21 2BJ
T: +44 (0)1202 882 020
F: +44 (0)1202 840 523
www.cobham.com
Cobham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
