 Cobham plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The most important thing we build is trust
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.cobham.com Cobham protects lives and livelihoods with its differentiated technology 
and know-how, operating with a deep insight to customer needs and 
agility that differentiates it. The Group offers an innovative range of 
technologies and services to solve challenging problems across defence, 
security and commercial markets, from deep space to the depths of the 
ocean. With market leading positions in air-to-air refuelling; aviation 
services; audio, video and data communications; defence electronics;  
life support and mission equipment, the most important thing  
Cobham builds is trust. 
Front cover image 
Cobham’s SATCOM systems provide technology solutions 
for complex communications problems, often in extreme 
environments. Cobham equipment kept millions of fans 
informed of exciting developments during the around  
the world Volvo Ocean Race.
Inside front cover image 
Cobham aerial refuelling equipment is on every major  
tanker aircraft including the Airbus Military A330MRTT  
and A400M, Lockheed Martin C-130, Boeing KC-46 and  
Embraer KC-390 aircraft.
Image courtesy of Airbus Military. Dividend
2010 2011 2012
6.00
8.00
8.80
0
10.00
8.00
6.00
4.00
2.00
pence
Earnings per Ordinary Share 
– underlying*
2010 2011 2012
19.68
22.05
22.63
18
24
22
20
pence
Revenue
£m
2010 2011 2012
1903
1406
497
1854
1349
505
1749
1193
556
Commercial Defence/Security
0
2000
1000
Earnings per Ordinary Share
– basic
2010 2011 2012
13.27
16.80
16.13
0
20
15
5
10
pence
Business overview
Highlights 2012 1
Cobham at a glance  2
What we do  4
Chairman’s statement 6
Chief Executive Officer’s review 7
Our strategy 9
Key performance indicators 12
Our markets 13
Principal risks 14
Aerospace and Security 16
Defence Systems 18
Mission Systems 20
Aviation Services 22
Financial review 24
Corporate responsibility and sustainability 30
Corporate governance
Board of Directors 34
Corporate governance 36
Directors’ remuneration report 44
Directors’ report 56
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 60
Group financial statements
Independent auditors’ report 61
Accounting policies 62
Consolidated income statement 69
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income 70
Consolidated balance sheet 71
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 72
Consolidated cash flow statement 73
Notes to the Group financial statements 74
Parent company financial statements
Independent auditors’ report 1 13
Parent company accounting policies 1 14
Parent company balance sheet 1 16
Reconciliation of movements 
in shareholders’ funds 1 1 7
Notes to the parent company 
financial statements 1 18
Other information
Group financial record 125
Shareholder information 126
Glossary 127
Online information 128 
Definitions 129
Highlights 2012
–  £2.4bn order book, unchanged at constant translation exchange – headline order 
intake significantly reduced by divestments
–  Organic* revenue broadly flat – Group revenue reduced by divestments
–  Underlying* EPS up 3.2% at constant translation exchange, supported by ahead  
of plan Excellence in Delivery benefits and a lower underlying tax rate 
–  Thrane & Thrane acquisition brings further strength in commercial markets  
and is ahead of plan, with integration progressing well 
–  Strong operating cash conversion* of 104% and good free cash flow of £273m, 
before Excellence in Delivery costs
–  Robust balance sheet, with net debt/EBITDA of 0.9 times
–  Recommended full year dividend increase of 10%, in line with long standing 
progressive policy, to 8.8 pence per share
* For definitions of underlying and other terms please refer to page 129.
The Annual Report and Accounts contains certain forward 
looking statements with regard to the operations, performance 
and financial condition of the Group. By their nature, these 
statements involve uncertainty since future events and 
circumstances can cause results to differ from those anticipated. 
Nothing contained in this Annual Report and Accounts should be 
construed as a profit forecast.
You can view this Annual Report and Accounts, 
other results material, including a webcast of the 
results presentation, and other information for  
shareholders online at:
 
 www.cobhaminvestors.com
1 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information USA 56%
Other EU countries 14%
Australia 12%
9%
9%
50%
17%
13%
10%
10%
UK
RoW
Group revenue by geography*
2012 2011
Group revenue by market*
* 2012 is proforma including full year revenue 
   contribution from Thrane & Thrane
US Defence/Security 48%
Non US Defence/Security 25%
Commercial 27%
40%
26%
34%
2012 2011
2012 2011
USA 48%
13%
11%
23%
5%
56%
Other EU countries 10%
Australia 9%
UK
RoW 4%
21%
Employees by geography
Our global reach
With a portfolio of differentiated technologies, a permanent presence in 16 countries and customers in over 100, Cobham has a truly global presence.  
Our strategy is to leverage our innovative technology, know-how and understanding of customer needs to build and maintain leading positions in the  
second and third tiers of the global defence/security and commercial aerospace, land and marine markets.
> 10,000 employees worldwide 
> Customers in over 100 countries
For Business Model see pages 4 and 5
2 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Cobham at a glance
Cobham operates from 14 principal manufacturing locations, with 9 in 
the USA and 5 in Europe, as well as sales offices across the world that 
provide a permanent presence in faster growth markets. In addition, 
Aviation Services operates from airport bases in Australia and in Europe 
with its fleet of aircraft 
North America
Principal 
manuf ac turing  
locations
Europe
Principal 
manufacturing  
locations
Australia
Operating 
bases
9
5
5
São Paulo
Abu Dhabi
New Delhi
Bangalore
Singapore
Shanghai
Key
 Principal manufacturing locations
 Operating bases
 Sales offices 201 2 
in brief
Further awards won on US Air Force  
KC-46 tanker
Cobham secured an increased presence on the 
USAF KC-46 tanker aircraft, including contracts 
with Boeing for body fuel tanks and critical fuel 
tank inerting systems. These add to contracts 
received in 201 1 for the hose and drogue aerial 
refuelling system.
Cobham joint venture awarded a new 
contract for flying training in the UK
Cobham joint venture FB Heliservices was awarded 
a four year contract with two possible one year 
extensions worth £193m, to continue to provide 
helicopter flying training and support services  
to the UK Ministry of Defence from April 201 2.
Thrane & Thrane acquisition doubles 
Cobham’s SATCOM revenue
Cobham’s June 2012 acquisition of Thrane & 
Thrane brought together two world class, highly 
complementary businesses, giving the combined 
operation technology advantage and scale. The 
business has been delivering a Very Small Aperture 
Terminal (VSAT) SATCOM solution, in cooperation 
with Ericsson, for A.P . Moller Maersk’s fleet of  
more than 500 container vessels, the largest single 
maritime VSAT order ever.
Bob Murphy appointed Chief Executive 
Officer from June 2012
Bob Murphy was appointed Chief Executive 
Officer from 25 June 2012, bringing more than  
25 years of experience in civil, commercial  
and defence sectors of the aerospace &  
defence industry.
SATCOM upgrade for 200 US Air 
Force aircraft
Lockheed Martin selected Cobham acquisition 
Thrane & Thrane to provide the satellite 
communications (SATCOM) solution for an 
upgrade of some 200 USAF C- 1 30J Super  
Hercules transport aircraft. The value of the  
award is expected to approach £16m.
Australian aerial maritime surveillance 
contract extended 
Cobham signed a two year contract extension  
to 2021 with the Australian Customs and Border 
Protection Service worth £105m. Cobham has 
been protecting Australia’s borders since 1995 
under a performance based service contract using 
10 highly modified Bombardier Dash 8 maritime 
patrol aircraft that fly some 2,500 missions and 
15,000 hours each year.
Fifth award received on Brazilian KC-390 
tanker aircraft
Cobham was awarded a contract to provide the 
Passenger Address System for the Embraer KC-390 
tanker aircraft. This adds to contracts received for 
wing-mounted aerial refuelling pods, auxiliary 
fuselage fuel tanks, aerial refuelling probes and 
nose radomes.
Cobham provides Electronic Warfare 
antennas for US Navy
Cobham was awarded contracts in April 2012 and 
January 201 3 to provide the integrated antenna/
radome and low band transmitter, designed to 
protect strike aircraft, ships and ground troops by 
disrupting enemy radar and communications, for 
the EA-6B and EA- 18G electronic warfare aircraft.
Flight service contracts awarded  
in Australia
Cobham grew its fly-in fly-out services for the 
Australian natural resources industry during the 
year, including significant contract awards from 
Minara Resources, Santos and a two year, 
AUD$65m extension from BHP Billiton. 
Non-core emergency locator beacon 
businesses divested
The planned divestment of the non-core 
emergency locator beacon businesses was 
completed for US$73m on a debt and cash 
free basis. 
3 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information We offer a technically diverse and innovative range of technologies  
and services that help to protect lives and livelihoods, responding  
to customer needs with agility that differentiates us
High level of company funded development 
(or private venture – PV) work. Partnerships 
with universities, colleges and consortia  
for research activities.
High technology content in specialist markets 
present significant barriers to entry.
Potential to adapt technologies for multiple 
applications across defence/security and 
commercial markets.
Investment target 6% of revenue, plus 
additional customer funding.
Critical focus on cost and price, coupled  
with continual reductions in size, weight  
and power consumption.
Leveraging a customer base spanning  
100 countries to provide a broader range  
of products and services to each customer.
 
Positions on a diverse range of air, land  
and marine platforms reduces risk and 
increases potential returns on investment.
 
Long term nature of programmes and  
Aviation Services contracts foster close 
customer relationships and forward  
revenue visibility.
Predominantly Business to Business sales.
 
Focus is on development of critical 
components and subsystems, predominantly 
Tier 3 capabilities with some Tier 2.
Cost of materials
£575m
Employees
10,000
R&D investment
£1 56m
Market driven 
PV investment
Global sales & 
distribution
System of Systems
Platforms
Platform Systems &  
Signal Processing
Circuits
Components
Tier 1
Tier 2
Tier 3
Subsystems
4 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
What we do
More power efficient
Lighter
Smaller Cobham has three Divisions focused  
on manufacturing and an Aviation  
Services Division. 
 
Excellence in Delivery (EiD) is improving  
operational performance and customer 
delivery in manufacturing operations.
 
Manufacturing is being consolidated into  
14 Principal Locations, reducing costs  
and streamlining the business.
 
Cobham products are being utilised in the 
provision of critical services.
EiD establishing a Cobham way of doing 
business across 14 Principal Locations  
covering three elements.
Platforms, particularly aircraft and ships,  
can be in service for decades.
Customers in 100 countries 
 Original equipment manufacturers
 Prime contractors
 Airlines
 Distributors
 Government agencies
Global  
aftermarket
support
Service flexibility
Aftermarket opportunity varies with type  
and complexity of product and represented  
some 1 7% of Group sales in 2012. 
 
Cobham’s capabilities also present significant 
opportunities for technology upgrades.
 
The Group is able to expand and adapt the 
scope of service provision as customer  
needs evolve.
Technology  
related services
Operational  
excellence and 
consolidated 
production
5 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate development
Cobham’s strategy is to leverage its innovative 
technology, know-how and understanding  
of customer needs to build and maintain leading 
positions in the second and third tiers of the 
global defence/security and commercial 
aerospace, land and marine markets.
We have made good progress in the year, 
including the acquisition of Thrane & Thrane, 
which reinforces our position in the predominantly 
commercial SATCOM market. In addition,  
we divested the emergency locator beacon 
businesses, our most significant remaining 
non-core business.
The programme to re-engineer and streamline 
operations, EiD, has received considerable focus 
and is bringing a number of operational, customer 
and financial benefits. 
Looking forward, we will continue to streamline 
our operations and we will re-invest the majority 
of the savings made into the business to develop 
further innovative technology solutions from a 
closer understanding of customer needs. We will 
increase investment in learning and development 
to build the essential skills and capabilities from 
which to drive future growth. 
The Board
Bob Murphy joined the Board as Chief Executive 
Officer (CEO) on 25 June 2012. Bob brings a 
successful track record spanning more than 25 
years in the industry. He has joined us from BAE 
Systems where he was an Executive Committee 
member with global responsibility for the BAE 
Systems Inc. Product Sectors business.
Bob has taken over from Andy Stevens who took 
early retirement due to the recurrence of a long 
term, serious back injury. Andy remained on the 
Board during the CEO transition, continuing as a 
Non-executive Director to 1 August 2012. In all,  
he was a member of the Board for nine years  
and I would like to thank him for his tremendous 
contribution over this period. 
In April 2012, Warren Tucker, Cobham’s Chief 
Financial Officer, decided to stand down  
but is staying on until 1 May 201 3. We are grateful 
to Warren for his enormous contribution over  
10 years and for providing continuity during  
a time of change. Simon Nicholls, currently Group 
Finance Director at Senior plc, will join the Board 
on 1 May 201 3 and brings a successful track record 
of financial leadership in global aerospace and 
broader commercial markets.
Marcus Beresford has completed nine years  
as a Non-executive Director and is the  
Senior Independent Director. He will also  
stand down from the Board at the conclusion  
of the 201 3 AGM.
Dividend
Following the rebalancing at the interim stage, the 
Board is recommending a final dividend for 2012 
of 6.40 pence with a total dividend per share for 
2012 of 8.80 pence. This is an increase of 10%  
on the prior year, in line with the Group’s long 
standing, progressive dividend policy.
Cobham has a very long record of delivering 
dividend growth, increasing the dividend annually 
for more than 40 years. The dividend payment 
continues to be underpinned by Cobham’s cash 
generation and dividend cover of 2.6 times. 
Outlook
We have delivered a good set of results in market 
conditions that continue to be challenging.
The US defence/security market remains highly 
uncertain and we expect a period of declining, 
then flat, US Government budgets consistent  
with previous down cycles. In line with previous 
guidance, our plans are based on Group revenue 
declining organically by low-to-mid single digits  
in 201 3, as the decrease in defence/security 
revenue is only partially offset by growth in 
commercial markets. 
EiD has achieved £48m of savings to the end  
of 201 2. The majority of the savings achieved  
from additional restructuring of the cost base 
announced in November will be re-invested to 
generate incremental organic revenue. On the basis 
of current market trends, we continue to anticipate 
a return to modest organic growth from 2014, 
rising above mid single digit growth thereafter. 
The Group has a highly cash generative business 
model and a robust balance sheet. These allow  
us to invest in carefully selected acquisitions to 
bring more balance between our defence/security 
and commercial businesses, promoting long term 
revenue growth through the cycles, and underpin 
the Group’s policy of paying a 10% progressive 
annual dividend increase.
John Devaney
Chairman
6 March 201 3
Highlights
 Thrane & Thrane acquisition doubles 
predominantly commercial SATCOM revenue
 Continued focus on bringing more balance to 
defence/security and commercial businesses
 Recommended 10% increase in dividend for  
the year
Full year dividend
8.80p + 10% 
(201 1: 8.00p)
6 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman’s statement Strategy
Since becoming CEO in June 2012, I have spent 
considerable time with our customers, suppliers 
and employees, with visits to many of our 
operating sites. I believe our business has many 
strong positives including innovative and 
energetic employees, a breadth of discriminating 
technologies, a global geographical presence 
giving it access to growing markets across the 
world and strong operating margins with  
excellent cash generation.
Cobham’s strategy is to leverage its innovative 
technology, know-how and understanding of 
customer needs to build and maintain leading 
positions in the second and third tiers of the 
global defence/security and commercial 
aerospace, land and marine markets. This enables 
us to generate sustainable top and bottom line 
growth, relative to the markets in which we 
operate, while consistently generating good free 
cash flow, thereby creating shareholder value.
Strategy overview and objectives
Technology and know-how are the key 
competitive differentiators for the Group, 
recognising the importance of providing 
customers with solutions that are responsive  
to their needs. The Group is focused on 
understanding and serving the needs of its  
current customer base, where it has long term 
relationships. It will also identify adjacent markets 
where its technology and know-how can be 
leveraged to meet the needs of new customers, 
securing sustainable, long term positions and 
delivering additional growth, with the Group well 
positioned to benefit from faster growing markets.
Cobham’s market positions and investment in 
innovation must be underpinned by sector leading 
customer delivery and operational performance.  
In this regard, the EiD programme is critical for  
the Group. It is the catalyst to drive a culture  
of continuous improvement and an integrated, 
streamlined business. The programme has been 
very successful, enabling Cobham to rationalise  
its footprint, generate productivity improvements 
and improve delivery. The Group previously 
announced the extension of this programme  
with further emphasis on streamlining the cost 
structure and focus on the Group’s US facing 
operations, given the expected decline in US 
Government budgets.
The Board believes the successful delivery of this 
strategy will increase the Group’s agility, enabling  
it to shift the emphasis of its portfolio over time 
given the cyclical nature of its markets, and 
provide sustainable growth in shareholder value. 
The Group is confident that the actions it is taking, 
in aggregate, should enable it to generate modest 
organic growth from 2014 and above mid-single 
digit organic revenue growth thereafter.
Technology investment
During the year total R&D investment, 
including customer funded projects was £1 55.9m 
(201 1 : £1 34.5m), including significant development 
work on aerial refuelling programmes. PV was 
£75.4m (201 1 : £75.3m) representing 5.3% (201 1 : 
4.9%) of Group revenue. As previously announced, 
we plan to increase PV investment in 201 3 to 
generate incremental organic revenue and gain 
market share. The renewed focus on customers will 
enable us to identify priority investment areas and 
optimise revenue from the PV programme. 
Operational excellence
There has been considerable focus during the  
year on the Group’s programme to re-engineer 
Highlights
 Strategic actions to enable a return to 
sustainable organic revenue growth, with 
increased investment in the business
 Considerable progress from Excellence in 
Delivery, with integration aspects extended  
to 2015
 Conservatively geared at 0.9 times net debt/
EBITDA, after the £275m net cash investment 
in acquisitions during the year
Total Excellence in Delivery savings
£100m by 2016
The Group is confident  
that the actions it is taking,  
in aggregate, should enable  
it to generate modest organic 
growth from 2014 and above 
mid-single digit organic  
revenue growth thereafter
7 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Chief Executive Officer’s review and streamline operations, EiD, which has  
reached the end of its second full year and  
made considerable progress. Alongside financial 
benefits, the programme is bringing a number  
of operational and customer benefits, including 
improved productivity, shortened manufacturing 
lead times and improved levels of quality.  
The programme has three components: the 
implementation of a Standard Operating 
Framework across a set of principal  
manufacturing sites (Principal Locations);  
the implementation of a standard Enterprise  
Resource Planning (ERP) IT system; and the 
integration of manufacturing facilities. 
Implementation of the standard production 
framework is now well underway in all Principal 
Locations, with significant operational 
improvements being seen. Work on the standard 
engineering and project management framework 
is now underway in five sites and the supply chain 
framework in six sites. 
The design phase on the ERP implementation  
was substantially completed in December 2012, 
with focus moving on to building and testing  
the system in 201 3. As planned, there were four 
integrations of manufacturing facilities in 2012.
During 2012, as a result of the accelerated 
achievement of the benefits, the programme 
exceeded the planned level of savings by £6m, 
with £14m of year-on-year efficiency savings.  
This brings the total annualised benefits to  
£48m since the programme commenced.  
EiD costs were £38m in the year.
The Group is taking further actions to make 
significant site and headcount rationalisations due 
to expected volume declines in the US defence/
security market.
The extension of the integration elements of the 
programme by two years to the end of 201 5 will 
provides additional benefits of £30m per annum 
on completion, with the majority of these savings 
being reinvested into the business. 
EiD remains on track to deliver a run-rate of £75m 
of annualised year-on-year efficiency savings  
by 201 3, albeit this declines to £70m over the 
following one to two years due to US Government 
contracting rules. Expected total costs over the life 
of the programme remain £191m, including the 
additional integration activity. 
Investment in management capabilities
T o reinforce the Group’s understanding of its 
markets and strengthen the link between customer 
needs and technology investment, a new Group 
level position has been established to address 
business development and technology. Cobham 
will also focus on further improving its programme 
management capabilities. A new Group level 
position has also been established to provide 
momentum and visibility on this key competency, 
which is critical to meeting customer expectations 
and delivering organic growth.
In addition, the delivery of Cobham’s strategy 
depends on the right skills and capabilities being  
in place. Cobham will increase its investment in 
learning and development to build the essential 
skills and capabilities to drive future growth.
Acquisition investment
Our acquisition strategy is to use the significant 
amount of cash generated after dividend 
payments and our balance sheet strength to 
reinforce our technology and market positions 
through carefully selected acquisitions. Our focus 
is to bring more balance to our defence/security 
and commercial businesses, promoting long  
term revenue growth through the cycles.
The £275m acquisition of Thrane & Thrane is a 
significant step towards this, with the June 2012 
acquisition doubling Cobham’s predominantly 
commercial SATCOM revenue. Integration has 
progressed well and the business has continued  
to perform ahead of plan.
Our focus continues to be on identifying and 
executing attractive acquisition opportunities 
within our chosen markets and adjacent areas.  
We have a strong balance sheet and the ability to 
successfully execute acquisitions, consistent with 
our disciplined financial criteria, to create value  
for our shareholders. 
Overview of the year
We have delivered a good set of results in market 
conditions that continue to be challenging.
Our order book at £2.4bn was unchanged on the 
prior year at constant translation exchange rates. 
Order intake continued to be strong in Australia, 
with significant contracts secured for fly-in fly-out 
services to the mining sector and an extension to 
the Sentinel maritime surveillance contract. In the 
UK, our joint venture company FB Heliservices 
received a significant order from the UK Ministry  
of Defence to provide helicopter flying training. 
There were also significant awards in the US  
from Boeing on the Wideband Global Satellite 
programme and from the US Navy for the ALQ-99 
Low Band T ransmitter, including for the first foreign 
military sale customer. 
Group organic revenue was broadly flat with 
growth in commercial and non US defence/
security revenue offset by US defence/security, 
mostly due to reduced revenue in land markets. 
Although the underlying trading margin decreased 
slightly to 19.0%, primarily due to anticipated 
declines in operating margins in Defence Systems 
and Aviation Services, underlying EPS increased 
2.6% to 22.63p (201 1: 22.05p), including a lower 
underlying tax rate and the full year effect of the 
201 1 share buy-back. At constant translation 
exchange rates underlying EPS increased 3.2%. 
Operating cash conversion was strong at 104% 
and, at the year end, we were conservatively 
geared at 0.9 times net debt/EBITDA, after the 
£275m net cash investment in acquisitions  
during the year.
Bob Murphy
Chief Executive Officer
6 March 201 3
Countering the menace of landmines
Cobham has been developing radar and radio 
frequency technology for many years to 
counter the menace of landmines and 
improvised explosive devices. Cobham’s 
MINEHOUND dual sensor mine detector is used 
in humanitarian mine detection and removal 
operations in Cambodia, Angola and Bosnia.
8 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
 Chief Executive Officer’s review continued Aerospace
Communications
Mission
Equipment
Aviation
Services
Antenna
Systems
Life 
Support
Tactical
Comms &
Surveillance
Defence
Electronics
SATCOM
Over a number of years, Cobham’s strategy has 
been to focus on its chosen markets, each with 
significant technology value-add. 
The EiD programme commenced in 2010 and is  
an area of considerable focus, bringing a number 
of customer and operational benefits, in addition 
to significant financial benefits. This programme  
is making the business more integrated and  
more streamlined.
 
Cobham has used the significant amount of cash 
generated by the business to make acquisitions 
that reinforce its technology and market leading 
positions, completing 44 discrete acquisitions in 
the last 10 years. It has also been through periodic 
and rigorous reviews to identify businesses that  
no longer fit the strategy, with divestments made, 
including the non-core emergency locator beacon 
businesses during 2012.
During June 2012, Bob Murphy became CEO, 
initiating a review which concluded that while  
the Group’s strategic objectives are a good base 
on which to build, the strategy needs to evolve  
in some important ways. 
 
The integration aspects of the EiD programme 
have been extended to further reduce the fixed 
cost base to address expected declines in US 
defence/security revenue, given the overall fiscal 
pressure the US faces. The majority of savings  
will be reinvested in business development, in 
market led technology, in project management 
and in training to generate incremental organic 
revenue. This focus on generating organic revenue 
growth underpins Cobham’s commitment to 
creating sustainable shareholder value. 
The Group will continue to use its balance sheet 
strength on carefully selected acquisitions to bring 
more balance between its defence/security and 
commercial businesses, to promote long term 
revenue growth through the cycles.
More detail on Cobham’s strategy, the importance 
of each strategic objective and the actions being 
taken to progress it are set out on the following 
double page spread. 
The table below shows Cobham’s positions in 
each of its markets, demonstrating the progress  
to date in implementing its strategy. 
Each market position shown on the Group table 
below has been highlighted in the respective 
Divisional reviews on pages 16 to 23.
The acquisition of Thrane & Thrane has  
doubled Cobham’s SATCOM revenue. SATCOM 
was previously contained within the Antenna 
Systems business unit but has now achieved the 
necessary scale for the Group to create an eighth 
strategic business unit.
Our strategy is evolving with an extension to the integration 
aspects of Excellence in Delivery and increasing investment in 
the business, with a renewed focus on organic revenue growth
Leading Market Positions
9 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Our strategy
US Defence/
security
Non US Defence/
security
Higher
Lower
Building scale In top three
Market Growth
Commercial Strategy
Why it is 
important
What we
are doing
Technology and know-how are our key 
competitive differentiators. 
The close alignment between technology 
and customers will optimise our ability to 
ensure the right solutions are available 
when customers need them, and so 
maximise revenue potential from 
technology investment. Investment  
must be focused on products and 
services that address the customer  
needs of today and the future –  
not the problems of yesterday. 
We take an increasingly collaborative 
approach to growing the number and 
value of our differentiated products  
and services on new platforms and 
programmes, using customer knowledge 
from across our businesses.
Improve understanding of our markets 
and customers’ future needs, aligning  
PV investments with these priorities.
To give greater focus and insight 
to customer needs and a top-down,  
market led view of investment priorities,  
a new Group level position has been 
established to address Business 
Development and Technology.
Collaboration across the Group is 
increasingly delivering tangible results, 
helping us win larger programme 
positions which individual business  
units would not be able to win on their 
own. Examples include broader content 
from across Cobham on the KC-390 and 
KC-46 tanker programmes. 
Our innovative technology and 
know-how are concentrated at  
the tier two (subsystems) and tier three 
(components) level, where we have 
market leading positions and technical 
differentiation with barriers to entry.  
This differentiation enables us to  
offer solutions to customers’  
complex problems. 
Remain focused at the second and 
third tiers of global defence/security 
markets and commercial aerospace, 
land and marine markets.
Total Group R&D investment, including 
projects funded by customers, was 
£156m. As part of this, we invested 
£75m, or 5.3% of Group revenue, on 
technology in 2012.
From 2013, we intend to increase the 
level of market led company funded 
technology investment to generate 
incremental organic revenue and  
gain market share.
We have an extraordinary breadth  
of capabilities and a global reach,  
giving us access to a range of  
markets and customers. 
We need to exploit this breadth and 
reach to maximise our content on 
platforms and programmes and to 
increase the adoption of our 
differentiated products, services  
and know-how in adjacent markets.
Identify adjacent markets where our 
existing technology and know-how can 
be leveraged to meet the needs of new 
customers.
We have been making progress in 
adapting our technologies for new 
markets and new geographies. Our 
wireless mesh network, NetNodeIS,  
has been used successfully across 
defence/security markets and is  
being increasingly used in commercial 
environments, including in underground 
mines, in oil fields and for broadcast 
applications. 
We have won our first significant order 
for surveillance equipment in Brazil, 
following the recent opening of  
an office there. 
We will further leverage our technology 
and global footprint to identify new 
markets and applications. This process will 
enable us to secure sustainable, long term 
positions and deliver additional growth.
10 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our strategy continued
The Group leverages its innovative technology, know-how and 
understanding of customer needs to build and maintain leading 
positions in the second and third tiers of the global defence/security 
and commercial aerospace, land and marine markets
2 13 Our customers want to work with  
people who understand their strategic 
objectives and help them become more 
competitive. The first step in developing 
this relationship of trust is to have a 
world class reputation for delivery  
and operational excellence across  
every discipline. 
The drive for operational excellence  
is helping us to reduce our existing 
manufacturing footprint and improve 
productivity, enabling us to integrate 
smaller manufacturing locations.  
This helps us to reduce our cost base.
Drive a culture of continuous 
improvement and an integrated, 
streamlined business across the  
Group through Excellence in Delivery .
We have been focusing on EiD, which 
has reached the end of its second full 
year and made considerable progress. 
Alongside financial benefits, the 
programme is bringing a number  
of operational and customer benefits, 
including improved productivity, 
shortened manufacturing lead times  
and improved levels of quality. Four 
manufacturing facility integrations 
 were undertaken in the year.
We are making further significant site 
and headcount rationalisations due  
to expected volume declines in the  
US defence/security market, with 
rationalisation announced at five  
sites to date in 2013. The majority  
of the savings are to be reinvested  
in the business for incremental  
organic revenue.
Project management is a core 
competency for the Group, with 
consistent delivery of customer 
expectations a foundation stone  
on which revenue growth is built.
The ability to deliver programmes on 
time and on budget will foster closer 
relationships with customers, result in 
repeat orders and in the development of 
greater levels of collaboration and trust.
Improve programme execution 
across customer and PV funded 
projects to achieve sector leading 
customer delivery and operational 
performance.
We are focusing on further improving 
this core competency, with a Group  
level position established to provide 
momentum and visibility to  
programme execution.
In addition, there will be increased 
investment in project management 
training and development, resulting  
in enhanced levels of project delivery.
Delivery of our objectives depends on 
the right capabilities and organisation 
structures being in place, to meet the 
demands of operating in an increasingly 
global and complex environment. We 
need to ensure that we attract, retain 
and develop the skills that will support 
future growth.
We use our significant cash generation 
and balance sheet strength to reinforce 
our technology and market positions 
through carefully selected acquisitions, 
with focus on bringing more balance to 
our defence/security and commercial 
activities, to promote long term revenue 
growth through the cycles.
Ensure the right capabilities are in 
place in changing markets, by 
increasing investment to build 
essential skills and capabilities.
Use M&A to shift the emphasis of the 
portfolio ahead of market movements 
to ensure that the Group remains 
exposed to faster growing markets.
A new Business Development and 
Technology position has been 
established to reinforce the Group’s 
understanding of its markets and 
strengthen the link between the  
needs of customers and technology 
investment. A further Group level 
position has been created to provide 
momentum and visibility on the 
development of project and programme 
management capabilities, which are key 
to organic growth. 
We will continue to ensure we have the 
right capabilities in place to deliver our 
objectives in a changing market. This will 
be underpinned by increased investment 
in learning and development in line with 
strategic workforce plans designed  
to drive functional excellence. 
The acquisition of Thrane & Thrane  
is a significant step towards bringing 
more balance between defence/ 
security and commercial end markets, 
with the June 2012 acquisition doubling  
our predominantly commercial  
SATCOM revenue.
Acquiring and successfully integrating 
value enhancing companies will 
continue to be important going  
forward. To underpin this, the 
acquisition process is being refined  
to ensure clear alignment with the 
strategic priorities supported by 
superior processes so that acquisitions 
continue to consistently deliver 
shareholder value.
11 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
4567 Key performance indicators are used to monitor progress in 
implementing the Group’s strategic objectives
The Board monitors progress made against the 
Group’s strategic objectives with the aid of a 
scorecard of financial and non-financial metrics, 
and this scorecard is regularly updated and 
reviewed. Cobham considers the most important 
of these scorecard metrics to be its Key 
performance indicators (KPIs).
The Group’s KPIs have been set out below  
and each one has been cross-referenced to the 
relevant strategic objectives on pages 10 and 1 1 
and to a further specified page where performance 
in the year is described in more detail.
The chosen KPIs are partly financial, recognising 
revenue, profit growth and cash generation as key 
Core businesses’ organic revenue growth
Organic revenue was broadly flat, with growth  
in the Aviation Services business being offset  
by Aerospace and Security and Defence Systems.
By end market, organic revenue in Cobham’s 
commercial markets increased 2%, with a strong 
performance in Australia and increasing shipments 
of products, including radios and antennas, to 
large transport aircraft manufacturers. Non US 
defence/security revenue was up 4%, with a strong 
performance in a number of areas, including  
aerial refuelling, antennas and aerospace 
communications products, partially offset by 
lower land revenue. US defence/security revenue 
was down 4%, mostly due to reduced revenue in 
land markets. 
drivers of shareholder value creation. They also 
include company funded investment in PV, with 
the development and bringing to market of 
technically differentiated products and innovative 
services being Cobham’s key differentiator.
Finally, the KPIs recognise the importance  
to Cobham of not only delivering financial 
performance but also achieving operational 
excellence through focused and motivated 
employees, who are working in a safe environment. 
The Remuneration Committee has linked total 
compensation with the achievement of specific 
and measurable progress against KPIs, both as 
individually specified financial targets and within 
Underlying EPS growth at constant  
translation exchange rates
Underlying EPS increased 2.6% to 22.6p (201 1: 
22.0p). The increase in underlying EPS includes  
the lower underlying tax rate and the full year 
effect of the 201 1 share buy-back. At constant 
translation exchange rates, underlying EPS 
increased 3.2%. 
Operating cash conversion
Operating cash conversion was strong at 104.2% 
(201 1: 95%) of trading profit, before the Group’s 
share of post-tax results of joint ventures, driven 
by an improvement in working capital. 
Core businesses’ PV investment
During the year, PV investment in core businesses 
was £71.4m (201 1: £69.8m) representing 5. 1% (201 1: 
5.2%) of core revenue. The Group plans to increase 
its PV investment in 201 3 to generate incremental 
organic revenue and gain market share. 
Key performance indicators
2012 
actual
201 1 
actual Strategic objectives
For more 
information
Core businesses’ organic revenue growth (0.8)% 0.3% Faster than 
our markets
1234567 See pages 24 and 25
Underlying EPS growth at constant translation 
exchange rates
3.2% 12.6% High single 
digit
1234567 See page 25
Operating cash conversion 104.2% 94.8% >80% 45 See page 27
Core businesses’ PV investment 5.1% 5.2% 6%15 See page 25
Staff safety – major accident incident rate* 666 465 zero 46 See page 32
Voluntary staff turnover 8.7% 8.4% <10% 6 See page 32
* Per 100,000 employees
personal objectives. This ensures that 
performance is aligned with the achievement  
of the Group’s strategic objectives and with 
shareholder expectations. The Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 44 to 55 sets out 
Cobham’s remuneration policy and its application 
in more detail.
Additional detail on each KPI is provided below. 
Definitions of the term ‘underlying’ and other 
measures are set out on page 129 of this Annual 
Report and Accounts together with definitions  
of the way in which the Group calculates each  
of the KPIs.
Staff safety – major accident incident rate*
Cobham’s goal to achieve ‘zero harm’ requires 
changes to policies, procedures and practices, 
particularly as a number of the companies 
acquired by Cobham over the past decade 
have been smaller, entrepreneurial businesses. 
Improvements are showing in terms of enhanced 
levels of reporting, but not yet in the accident  
rate. The increase in major accidents is also in part 
due to increased activity levels on sites being 
integrated. A strategic review of health and safety 
was conducted in 2012 and the findings are 
currently being acted on.
Voluntary staff turnover
The measure of voluntary staff turnover provides 
insight to retention, with a target that reflects  
the normal upper range of turnover experienced 
across the many geographic locations that 
Cobham operates in, with an appropriate level  
of churn to refresh the talent base.
12 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Key performance indicators US defence market
£bn
12 13 14 15 16 17
400
650
600
500
550
450
Source: Citi Research
FYDP
(2013 - 2017)
2% CAGR
Sequestration
-1% CAGR 
Faster growing geographic 
regions – defence procurement 
and R&D 
£bn
2012 2017
0
200
150
100
50
Source: JP Morgan, including India, 
Saudi Arabia, Australia, Brazil, Japan, 
Oman, and Thailand
6% CAGR
Commercial transport market 
Aircraft deliveries
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
0
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
6% CAGR
Source: Bank of America Merrill Lynch
 Regional and business jet market
Aircraft deliveries 
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
0
1,500
1,000
500
14% CAGR 
Source: Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Cobham operates in three key markets: US defence/security, 
non US defence/security and commercial
US defence/security market
The US Department of Defense has been 
operating under a stop-gap funding measure 
known as a Continuing Resolution since October 
2012, with no approved Government budget  
in place for 201 3 and associated restrictions  
on spending. There is further heightened near 
term uncertainty, as no political agreement was 
reached ahead of the 1 March 201 3 deadline,  
with significant budget cuts now being 
implemented. Regardless of the outcome  
of ongoing political debates, and as set out in 
Cobham’s November 2012 Interim Management 
Statement, it is apparent that the US defence/
security market has entered a down cycle.
Nevertheless, this market remains important to 
the Group and will remain the largest defence/
security market in the world by some way for the 
foreseeable future. Further, Cobham’s capabilities 
overlap significantly with areas of priority for the 
customer such as missile defence and intelligence, 
surveillance and reconnaissance. The Group has 
strong positions on programmes with growth 
potential, including the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, 
aerial refuelling platforms, the AEGIS Ballistic 
Missile Defence system and the US Navy Surface 
Electronic Warfare Improvement programme 
(SEWIP). The Group also has significant content  
on various retrofit programmes as a key 
subsystem and component supplier. 
Non US defence/security markets
While most European markets are expected to  
be flat to declining in the short to medium term, 
other markets are expected to grow including  
in Asia, the Middle East and South America. In 
aggregate, Cobham’s revenue from non US 
defence/security markets should continue  
to grow over the medium term.
Cobham benefits not only from direct sales to 
these markets but also from export sales of 
platforms such as the Airbus A330 MRTT and 
Eurofighter Typhoon aircraft. Cobham has won its 
first significant order in Brazil for surveillance 
equipment, following the opening of an office 
there and won further equipment orders on the 
Brazilian KC-390 aerial refuelling tanker aircraft. 
In addition, Cobham has a number of long term 
technology contracts for critical services. These 
include electronic warfare training in the UK for 
the Royal Navy and Royal Air Force, in addition  
to helicopter flying training for the UK Ministry  
of Defence through its joint venture company,  
FB Heliservices. In Australia, the Group operates 
the Sentinel maritime surveillance contract for  
the Customs and Border Protection Service. 
Cobham’s long term contracts foster close 
customer relationships, enabling the Group  
to manage the scope of service provision  
as customer needs evolve. 
Commercial markets
Cobham operates in a number of commercial 
markets where it has technology differentiation 
and good growth prospects over the medium 
term. These include specialist aviation markets  
in Australia and the SATCOM market, with 
increasing demand from the mining, offshore oil 
and gas and commercial shipping industries. The 
acquisition of Thrane & Thrane in June 2012 has 
significantly increased Cobham’s exposure to 
commercial markets, positioning the Group well  
to benefit from future growth in this technology.
In addition, Cobham has exposure to large 
transport aircraft, helicopters, regional and 
business jets and general aviation production. 
These markets are driven by rising passenger 
numbers, demand for more fuel efficient  
aircraft, by new and improved communication 
products and by an increasing focus on safety. 
During the year, Cobham delivered its 1,000th 
HGA-7001 SATCOM antenna, which provides long 
range cockpit communications and worldwide 
broadband connectivity for passengers. The 
antenna is standard fit on the Boeing 787 , Boeing 
747-8 and the Airbus A350 and will be standard fit 
on the Airbus A380 from June 201 3, as well as 
being a specified option on other Airbus and 
Boeing narrow and wide body aircraft.
13 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Our markets The Board has ultimate accountability for risk 
management systems and controls, with the 
Audit Committee having delegated responsibility 
for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of 
the system. More details on the role of the Audit 
Committee are set out on pages 42 and 43.
Cobham’s Risk Committee, which is an executive 
committee, is responsible for overseeing 
execution of the risk management framework 
throughout the Group. The process for monitoring 
and controlling risk, illustrated below, emphasises 
How we monitor and control risk
Reporting
Monitoring
Board review
Group Executive incorporating  
Risk Committee review
Risk Assessment
Operational Framework
Divisional/Functional Head review
Assurance reviews
Significant risks, mitigation plans  
and progress
Mitigation plans, performance, risks, impact  
(financial & non-financial), emerging themes
Mitigation plans, risks, emerging themes Mitigation plans and performance
Corporate/Division/Strategic Business Unit/Functional risk identification, analysis, evaluation  
and mitigation planning as part of strategy process
 Organisation
 Culture, Values & Appraisal System
 Mandated Policies & Processes
 Delegated Authorities
 Training & Development
 Performance Measurement
continuous evaluation and monitoring by 
Divisional Presidents, together with their 
respective management teams, including  
business unit management and functional 
management. The risk framework is structured  
to ensure that risks are identified promptly, 
managed appropriately and that actions are 
undertaken in line with Group objectives.
During 201 3, the Risk Committee has been 
strengthened with the membership expanded to 
include all members of the Group Executive with 
the objective of placing greater emphasis on the 
risk identification process and the risk appetite.
A description of the principal risks in the context 
of Cobham’s operations, together with a 
description of the potential impact on the Group 
if unaddressed and an outline of the actions taken 
to mitigate them, are set out in the table on the 
opposite page. The risks are not intended to be  
set out in any particular order. 
14 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Principal risks
During 201 3, the Risk Committee has been strengthened  
with the membership expanded to include all members  
of the Group Executive Principal risks
Risk Description/Context Impact/Sensitivity Mitigation/Comment
Deterioration 
in the macro-
economic 
environment 
adversely 
impacting  
our markets 
The Group’s revenue is derived  
from global defence/security and 
commercial markets. The level and 
type of spending is dependent on  
a complex mix of macroeconomic, 
fiscal and strategic defence and 
security imperatives.
Changes in government spending 
or in global growth rates could 
lead to programme terminations 
or delays or changes in market 
growth. A fundamental shift in 
how customers procure products 
or services could also have  
a material adverse effect  
on the Group’s future results.
The successful completion of the EiD programme will enable 
Cobham to optimise its market positions and transform 
operating performance.
The programme also reduces the Group’s costs significantly, so  
it can remain competitive in the face of volume declines or price 
pressures. The Group is looking to generate incremental revenue 
by reinvesting savings in the business.
There is increased emphasis on identifying adjacent markets in 
which proven and transferable technologies can be applied, with 
success to date in transferring defence/security technologies 
into commercial markets.
The Group is seeking to bring more balance between its defence/
security and commercial end markets to enable it to grow 
through the cycles.
Shortage of 
appropriate 
skills due to 
inability to 
attract, recruit 
and retain the 
best talent
The success of the Group’s strategy 
is dependent on the Group’s ability 
to attract and retain talent  
and skills.
Without appropriate quality  
and quantity of skills throughout 
the organisation it would be 
increasingly difficult to execute 
the strategy.
As part of its strategic refresh the Group is reassessing its talent 
management requirements, including critical skills gaps, and is 
developing plans to close them. The Group has rigorous talent 
management plans and an effective appraisal system. It provides 
competitive compensation packages that incentivise desired 
behaviours (see pages 58 and 59). 
A dedicated careers website and team are focused on recruiting 
people in the UK and USA.
The Group is pursuing a ‘zero harm’ Safety, Health and 
Environment (S|H|E) strategy (see pages 31 and 32). 
Contract risk 
and execution
The Group designs and assembles 
products and engages in services 
that are often custom built, utilising 
complex technologies, under fixed 
price contracts. This gives rise to 
the risks of failure to execute the 
contract or manage it profitably, 
the supply of a defective or delayed 
product or other contractual or 
liability risk. 
Failure to execute or deliver a 
contract gives rise to contract 
penalties, litigation and other 
financial liability, reputational risk 
and increased programme costs.
To mitigate contract risk, a thorough review of terms and 
conditions prior to signing ensures contract provisions are  
fully understood and risks fairly allocated between parties.
Execution risk is mitigated through application and monitoring  
of the Group’s Life Cycle Management process to all bids, 
contracts and development projects, including following  
Group approval processes in line with delegated authorities. 
As part of its strategic refresh, the Group has increased its focus 
on programme management capability and training.
Exposure in long 
term contracts 
with respect  
to inflation, 
currency and 
commodity 
pricing 
fluctuations
The Group’s financial results are 
dependent on managing macro 
financial risks, including inflation, 
currency and commodity.
Failure to manage financial risks 
can impact operating profit 
through higher costs or lower 
revenue and result in the Group 
failing to meet its forecast 
financial results.
Currency risks are considered as part of the bid approval  
process on large contracts. 
The Group sources and manufactures in local currency  
whenever practicable. 
Cobham puts currency or other hedges in place for at least  
80% of estimated exposure for a rolling 12 months.
Cobham also puts currency or other hedges in place for the 
majority of exposure for the duration of contracts, where 
there are contractual obligations from the customer.
Inflation and commodity pricing risks are managed through 
appropriate contractual terms, with suppliers contracted on  
an equivalent basis to match residual risks where possible.
Minimum/maximum supplier prices are contracted where 
possible to avoid unlimited exposure, when costs inflate  
ahead of revenue. 
The Group seeks to avoid fixed price quotes for commodity 
related costs. 
Notwithstanding all mitigation actions taken, the level  
of residual risk is still considered high.
Failure to comply
with laws,
regulations  
and restrictions
The Group must comply  
with numerous domestic and 
international laws, regulations and 
restrictions. Cobham operates in a 
highly regulated environment and is 
subject to the laws, regulations and 
restrictions of many jurisdictions, 
including those of the US, the UK 
and other countries. 
These include anti-bribery 
provisions, import and export 
controls, government contracting 
rules and applicable S|H|E legislation.
Sanctions for failure by the Group, 
or its sales agents or others acting 
on its behalf, to comply with 
these laws, regulations and 
restrictions could include fines, 
penalties, legal claims, suspension 
or debarment of the Group from 
future government contracts for 
a period of time as well as an 
impact on the Group’s reputation. 
Such sanctions could have an 
impact on the Group‘s financial 
position and future operations.
Cobham continues to drive a culture that ensures that safety, 
ethics and integrity are embodied in all that it does. Policies and 
procedures are included in the Group’s Corporate Framework 
which are regularly reviewed and audited, including procedures 
related to the use of sales and marketing representatives, 
anti-bribery and corruption, gifts and hospitality, whistle-blowing 
and investigation of ethics and compliance concerns.
Mandatory training is undertaken on a variety of compliance 
related subjects including US Government contracting, and 
anti-bribery and corruption. 
 
15 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Organic revenue
£m
06 07 08 09 10 11 12
Defence 
& Security
Commercial 
/Other  
0
800
400
200
600
CAGR 1.7%
 
Providing end-to-end avionics and communication equipment, 
law enforcement and national security solutions, and satellite 
communication equipment for land, sea and air applications
Cobham’s NetNodeIS wireless mesh 
network, with military and counter- 
terrorism applications, is increasingly 
being used in commercial environments 
such as underground mines.
16 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Aerospace  
and Security
Aerospace
Communications
Defence 
Electronics
Life 
Support
Aviation 
Services
Mission 
Equipment
Antenna 
Systems
SATCOM
Tactical
Comms & 
Surveillance
US Defence/Security Non US Defence/Security Commercial
Market positions
Building scale In top 3
Lower Higher Market Growth US Defence/Security 32%
Non US Defence/Security 24%
Commercial Aerospace/GA 19%
25% Maritime/Other
Revenue by market
Enabling renewable energy generation
Cobham’s slip rings are used in a number of specialist 
applications, including in wind power stations to generate 
renewable energy. Cobham commenced slip ring production  
at its Prescott, Arizona facility, adding to its two existing 
production sites in France. 
S-61, S-76, and UH-60 helicopters 
retrofitted by Carson Helicopters 
feature Cobham displays, audio  
and radio management systems,  
and navigation radios.
Performance highlights
 Demand for reliable, fast and cost-effective aeronautical SATCOM solutions resulted in the delivery 
of the 1000th HGA-7001 antenna, which enables Inmarsat SwiftBroadband for broadband internet 
usage in flight
 Strong double digit revenue growth on Airbus platforms, driven by increased production of platforms 
with higher value shipsets
 Cobham announced as a land based SATCOM terminal launch partner on Inmarsat’s Global Xpress 
network, adding to a 201 1 award as marine terminal launch partner
 Orders for surveillance products in Brazil and Australia, and Citywide surveillance infrastructure 
activity driving growth in the Middle East
2011
Acquisitions  
& currency 
translation Organic 2012
Revenue
1
 £m 637.0 84.6 (24.3) 697.3
Trading profit £m 146.9 149.1
Margin 23.1% (0.5)% (1.2)% 21.4%
1
 Includes inter divisional trading
Total revenue increased primarily due to the acquisition of Thrane & Thrane and the full year 
effect of the Trivec-Avant acquisition. Organic revenue decreased by 4%, driven by lower vehicle 
intercoms revenue into the US military, which was partially offset by growth in other parts of  
the Division, particularly commercial radios and antennas for large transport aircraft. 
The margin decreased to 21.4% (2011: 23.1%) due to significant volume declines in land products, 
particularly vehicle intercoms, partially offset by EiD improvements.
For more information on Cobham Aerospace and Security
www.cobham.com/about-cobham/aerospace-and-security
17 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Organic revenue
£m
06 07 08 09 10 11 12
Defence 
& Security
0
400
200
100
300
CAGR 5.9%
 
Providing critical technology for network centric and intelligence 
operations, moving information around the digital battlefield 
with customised and off-the-shelf solutions for people and 
systems to communicate on land, sea and air
Cobham supplies highly complex 
Radio Frequency modules for  
the Wideband Global Satellite 
programme, which provides  
global broadband connectivity  
for military communications.
18 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Defence Systems
Aerospace
Communications
Defence 
Electronics
Life 
Support
Aviation 
Services
Mission 
Equipment
Antenna 
Systems
SATCOM
Tactical
Comms & 
Surveillance
US Defence/Security Non US Defence/Security Commercial
Market positions
Market Growth Lower Higher
Building scale In top 3 Improvement in 
supplier on time in full
Improvement in 
manufacturing lead time
Improvement in supplier 
defective parts per million
 
52%
66%
92%
US Defence/Security 91%
Non US Defence/Security 9%
Revenue by market
Cobham’s communications antennas, 
radar components and subsystems  
play important roles in modern UAVs, 
including the General Atomics Predator 
family of drones.
Image courtesy of General Atomics
Performance highlights
 Completion of deliveries on Flight 7 of the Wideband Global Satellite with deliveries on Flight 8 
commenced. Revenue will continue over the next few years with deliveries on Flights 8, 9 and 10  
and potential for foreign sales
 The F-15 fighter Digital Electronic Warfare System upgrade programme moved from development 
into production, with revenue expected to increase from continued export shipments
 Award of the ALQ-99 Low Band Transmitter Full Rate Production Lot 6, for the EA-18G electronic 
warfare aircraft, which includes orders from the first foreign military sale customer, Australia. This 
award builds on a previous US Navy award in the first half of 2012
 Award of the low rate initial production contract for the SEWIP Block II programme, with deliveries 
commencing in 2014
2011
Currency 
translation Organic 2012
Revenue
1
 £m 323.9 3.9 (4.9) 322.9
Trading profit £m 54.7 44.9
Margin 16.9% (3.0)% 13.9%
1
 Includes inter divisional trading
Total revenue was broadly flat, with a favourable US dollar exchange rate offset by an organic 
decline of 2%. The business has been almost entirely focused on US defence but increased its 
revenue to export markets during the year, with particular emphasis on guidance systems for 
missile programmes.
As anticipated, the margin decreased to 13.9% (2011: 16.9%), in part due to favourable margins in 
the first half of 2011 on completion of the then current phases of certain production contracts. 
There was also accelerated programme investment in contracts in development during the year, 
which offset EiD benefits.
For more information on Cobham Defence Systems 
www.cobham.com/about-cobham/defence-systems
Improving operations and customer delivery
There has been considerable focus on Excellence in Delivery, 
the Group’s programme to re-engineer and streamline 
operations, which has made considerable progress. The 
programme is bringing a number of operational and customer 
benefits, including improved productivity, shortened 
manufacturing lead times and improved levels of quality. At the 
Defence Systems facility in Lansdale, Pennsylvania, significant 
improvements have been seen, including those shown above.
19 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Organic revenue
£m
06 07 08 09 10 11 12
Defence 
& Security
Commercial 
/Other  
0
400
200
100
300
CAGR 5.1%
 
Providing safety and survival systems for extreme environments, 
nose-to-tail refuelling systems and wing-tip to wing-tip mission 
systems for fast jets, transport aircraft and rotorcraft, and 
remote controlled robots and fully equipped bomb disposal 
vehicles for homeland security and military applications
The revolutionary Boeing 787 is the 
first commercial airliner to incorporate 
Cobham’s fuel tank inerting system, 
which was originally designed for 
military applications.
20 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Mission Systems
Aerospace
Communications
Defence 
Electronics
Life 
Support
Aviation 
Services
Mission 
Equipment
Antenna 
Systems
SATCOM
Tactical
Comms & 
Surveillance
Market positions
US Defence/Security Non US Defence/Security Commercial
Market Growth Lower Higher
Building scale In top 3 US Defence/Security 56%
Non US Defence/Security 36%
Commercial Aerospace/GA 8%
Revenue by market
Producing medical grade oxygen
Cobham’s Ceramic Oxygen Generating System (COGS) uses a 
unique ceramic membrane technology to produce medical 
grade oxygen where it is needed. COGS has found medical 
applications in both field hospitals and air ambulance medical 
evacuation helicopters, where it eliminates the significant costs 
and dangers associated with transporting liquid and gaseous 
oxygen tanks.
Performance highlights
 Continuing increases in aerial refuelling aftermarket revenue from both US and international 
customers, including on legacy US Air Force KC-135 and KC-10 aircraft and initial delivery of  
spares for the new Airbus A330MRTT aircraft
 Increased shipments of aerial refuelling pods for C-130 aircraft to US and international customers, 
with demand expected to remain strong
 Increasing demand from original equipment manufacturers and aftermarket customers for oxygen 
and escape slide systems for commercial applications, with continued supply of the fuel tank inerting 
system on the Boeing 787 commercial aircraft programme
 Contract awards to provide body fuel tanks and On-Board Inert Gas Generating System (OBIGGS)  
Air Separation Module for the USAF KC-46 tanker programme, with engineering activity underway 
and initial OBIGGS qualification hardware deliveries expected in 2013
2011
Currency 
translation Organic 2012
Revenue
1
 £m 371.8 1.0 (0.2) 372.6
Trading profit £m 84.2 81.3
Margin 22.6% – (0.8)% 21.8%
1
 Includes inter divisional trading
Cobham Mission Systems provides the 
refuelling probe and onboard oxygen and 
inert gas generating systems on the V-22, 
an aircraft with revolutionary design  
and versatility, in use with the US Navy, 
Air Force, and Marine Corps.
Image courtesy of defenseimagery.mil
Total revenue was flat, with organic growth in Cobham Mission Equipment driven by increased  
aerial refuelling revenue, with recognition of a revenue milestone on the UK Future Strategic 
Tanker Aircraft (FSTA) programme on the aircraft’s introduction to service with the Royal Air 
Force. However, growth was impacted by lower revenue from land products.
The margin decreased to 21.8% (2011: 22.6%), due to the volume decline in land products, partially 
offset by the profit contribution from the recognition of the entry into service milestone on FSTA 
and EiD benefits. 
For more information on Cobham Mission Systems 
www.cobham.com/about-cobham/mission-systems
21 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Organic revenue
£m
06 07 08 09 10 11 12
Defence 
& Security
Commercial 
/Other  
0
400
200
100
300
CAGR 4.6%
 
Cobham’s fleet of BAe 146 aircraft 
carry half a million passengers per 
year and can operate using unsealed 
runways, a unique feature in the 
Australian jet market.
Delivering outsourced aviation services for military and civil 
customers worldwide through military training, special mission 
flight operations, outsourced commercial aviation and  
aircraft engineering
22 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Aviation Services
Aerospace
Communications
Defence 
Electronics
Life 
Support
Aviation 
Services
Mission 
Equipment
Antenna 
Systems
SATCOM
Tactical
Comms & 
Surveillance
Market positions
Market Growth Lower Higher
Building scale In top 3
US Defence/Security Non US Defence/Security Commercial Non US Defence/Security 44%
Commercial Aerospace/GA 56%
Revenue by market
Detecting oil spills
Cobham was awarded an eight year contract by Oil Spill 
Response Ltd (OSRL) to operate a dedicated, specially-modified 
maritime surveillance Dornier 228 aircraft, providing rapid 
response to OSRL clients around the UK. This aircraft is used for 
detecting and monitoring spills and enabling compliance with 
legislation from the Department of Energy and Climate Change.
Performance highlights
 Boeing 71 7 activities in Australia were expanded with two additional aircraft joining the QantasLink 
fleet during 2012
 Cobham’s joint venture company FB Heliservices extended its Helicopter Flying School contract 
with the UK Ministry of Defence for four years until 2016 and new contracts have been secured  
with Albania and Qatar for flying training and support services
 A contract was awarded to fit air operable doors to half of the Australian Sentinel fleet. This enables 
Cobham to provide search and rescue services, with additional revenue potential from this capability
 Cobham was awarded a two year contract extension to 2021 on the Sentinel contract for 
surveillance services for the Australian Customs and Border Protection Service
2011
Currency 
translation Organic 2012
Revenue
1
 £m 308.1 2.5 16.0 326.6
Trading profit £m 41.5 38.0
Margin including Joint Ventures 13.5% – (1.9) 11.6%
Margin excluding Joint Ventures 10.4% – (0.9)% 9.5%
1
 Includes inter divisional trading
The Australian Customs and Border 
Protection Service has entrusted border 
surveillance to Cobham for more than  
a decade under a performance based 
contract, which was recently extended  
to 2021.
Total revenue, which excludes joint ventures, was driven by organic growth of 5%, primarily  
in the Australian operations. Revenue in Australia benefited from increased flying activity  
for QantasLink and for the mining and energy sectors. 
The margin including joint ventures decreased to 11.6% (2011: 13.5%), in part due to the low  
margin on the FSTA conversion work and redundancy costs, including reductions in administrative 
and other positions, primarily incurred in the first half. As anticipated, there was also a lower 
contribution from the Division’s joint ventures.
For more information on Cobham Aviation Services 
www.cobham.com/about-cobham/mission-systems/about-us/aviation-services
23 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Strong operating cash conversion of 104%, driven  
by an improvement in working capital
Highlights


















Group order book 
£2.4bn

Operating cash conversion
104%

Results

At the year end, the Group’s order book was £2.4bn 
(201 1: £2.5bn), with the order book flat year-on-
year at constant translation exchange rates. 
Group order intake was £1,656.4m (201 1: 
£2,045.7m). Order intake was lower due to 
divestments, primarily the 201 1 divestment of 
Analytic Solutions, and lower intake in the Mission 
Equipment and Aviation Services businesses, with 
these businesses having received large multi year 
orders in 201 1.
The Group book-to-bill ratio was 0.95 times. 
Excluding Aviation Services and Mission 
Equipment, book-to-bill was solid at 1.0 times.
The Group’s share of orders received by its joint 
ventures is also excluded from order intake. These 
included a £193m order received in the first half  
to provide helicopter flying training to the UK 
Ministry of Defence.

Revenue decreased to £1,7 49.4m (201 1: £1,854.4m), 
primarily due to net divestments, with the 
additional revenue from the acquisition of  
Thrane & Thrane and the full year impact of the 
Trivec-Avant acquisition being more than offset  
by lower revenue due to the divestment of the 
non-core emergency locator beacon businesses 
and the full year impact of the non-core Analytic 
Solutions divestment. 
Summary of underlying results
A summary of the Group’s underlying results is set out below: 
£m 2012 201 1
Revenue 1,749.4 1,854.4
Trading profit 333.1 364.9
Underlying net finance expense (30.9) (37.0)
Underlying profit before tax 302.2 327.9
Underlying tax (58.9) (81.2)
Underlying tax rate 20.0% 25.5%
Non-controlling interests (0.1) (0.1)
Underlying profit after tax 243.2 246.6
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 1,074.7 1,1 18.4
Underlying EPS (pence) 22.63 22.05
A reconciliation of underlying profit to statutory profit numbers is set out on page 26.
Analysis of Group revenue
Changes to Group revenue in the year were as follows:
2011 FX Translation
Acquisitions/
Disposals Organic Growth 2012
£1,854.4m £7.9m (£102.5m) (£10.4m) £1,749.4m
24 Cobham plc  
Financial review Underlying earnings per share
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
0
25
20
15
5
10
10.6% CAGR over last ten years
pence
8.28 
9.00 9.12 
10.58 
11.66 
13.09 
15.42 
18.80 
19.68 
22.05 
22.63 
Core businesses' organic revenue growth
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
0
2000
1500
500
1000
£m
CAGR 3.4%
10.6%
9.5% 0.9% 0.7% 0.3%
(3.2)%
(0.8)%
(1.6)%
9.6% 1.4%
Commercial Defence/Security
Organic revenue was broadly flat, with growth in 
the Aviation Services business being offset by 
Aerospace and Security and Defence Systems.
By end market, organic revenue in Cobham’s 
commercial markets increased 2%, with a strong 
performance in Australia and increasing shipments 
of products, including radios and antennas to large 
transport aircraft manufacturers. Non US defence/
security revenue was up 4%, with a strong 
performance in a number of areas, including  
aerial refuelling, antennas and aerospace 
communications products, partially offset by 
lower land revenue. US defence/security revenue 
was down 4%, mostly due to reduced revenue  
in land markets. 

During the year total R&D investment, including 
customer funded projects, was £155.9m (201 1: 
£1 34.5m), including significant development work 
on aerial refuelling programmes. PV was £75.4m 
(201 1: £75.3m), representing 5.3% (201 1: 4.9%) of 
Group revenue.

Group trading profit decreased to £333. 1m (201 1: 
£364.9m), with trading profit in the core businesses 
decreasing to £328.2m (201 1: £342.4m), primarily 
due to the anticipated decline in operating 
margins in Defence Systems and Aviation Services. 
Trading profit in the non-core businesses declined 
to £4.9m (201 1: £22.5m), due to the divestment of 
Analytic Solutions and the emergency locator 
beacon businesses. 
The Group’s underlying trading margin decreased 
slightly to 19.0% (201 1: 19.7%). 

The underlying net finance expense was £30.9m 
(201 1: £37 .0m). The net interest expense on cash 
and debt holdings reduced to £28.9m (201 1: 
£38.2m). The fall in the net interest expense 
benefited from the maturation of certain debt, 
partially offset by increased borrowings relating to 
the acquisition of Thrane & Thrane. As anticipated, 
there was a non-cash, net finance charge of £2.0m 
(201 1: £1.2m income) from pension schemes. 
In 201 3, an amendment to International 
Accounting Standard (IAS) 19 will be 
implemented, requiring Cobham to restate its 
comparative 2012 numbers upon implementation. 
The net impact of the change is that the 2012 net 
finance charge and operating costs will both 
increase by £1m, resulting in restated 2012 
underlying EPS being 0. 15p lower at 22.48p. 
Including the impact of this IAS19 change, the 
Group’s non-cash net finance charge from pension 
schemes is expected to be an expense of £2.9m  
in 201 3.

The Group’s underlying profit before tax 
decreased by 8% to £302.2m (201 1: £327 .9m).

As anticipated, the Group’s effective tax rate 
decreased to 20.0% (201 1: 25.5%) on an underlying 
basis. This was largely due to changes to the UK 
corporation tax rate and the taxation of the 
financing of overseas subsidiaries, which have 
beneficial effects on both past liabilities and future 
effective rates. The effective tax rate is calculated 
by dividing the Group’s underlying tax charge of 
£58.9m (201 1: £81.2m) by its underlying profit 
before tax of £294.8m (201 1: £318.5m), which is 
stated after excluding the £7 .4m (201 1: £9.4m) 
share of post-tax results of joint ventures.

Underlying EPS increased 2.6% to 22.63p (201 1: 
22.05p). The increase in underlying EPS includes 
the lower underlying tax rate and the full year 
effect of the 201 1 share buy-back. At constant 
translation exchange rates underlying EPS 
increased 3.2%. 
In addition to the above, basic EPS was lower  
at 16. 1 3p (201 1: 16.80p). Notwithstanding the 
increase in underlying EPS, basic EPS fell as 
expenditure on business restructuring, primarily 
EiD, increased by £6m with a 201 1 profit on the 
divestment of Analytic Solutions not repeating, 
partially offset by changes in the non-cash 
mark-to-market of movements on foreign 
exchange hedging contracts. 
A full reconciliation of the profit before tax items 
used in the calculation of underlying EPS is set out 
on page 26.
25 Cobham plc  
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information    Dividend per ordinary share
Double digit dividend growth 
pence
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
0
10.0
8.0
6.0
2.0
4.0
2.560 
2.816
3.100 
3.410 
3.750 
4.500 
4.955 
5.450 
6.000 
8.000 
8.800 
Maturity profile of the Group's outstanding debt facilities
The Group has significant debt facility headroom 
£m
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
0
800
600
400
200
£359.9m net debt
at 31 December 2012
Reconciliation of underlying profit
Trading profit is calculated as follows:
£m 2012 201 1
Result before joint ventures 228.3 252.1
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 7.4 9.4
Operating profit 235.7 261.5
Adjusted to exclude:
Business restructuring – primarily Excellence in Delivery 37.9 31.9
Movements in non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments (11.1) 5.4
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 68.9 68.0
Insurance proceeds related to settlement of commercial dispute – (6.0)
M&A related adjustments 1.7 4.1
Trading profit 333.1 364.9
Underlying profit before tax is calculated as follows:
£m 2012 201 1
Profit before taxation 206.0 234.3
Adjusted to exclude:
Business restructuring – primarily Excellence in Delivery 37.9 31.9
Movements in non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments (11.1) 5.4
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 68.9 68.0
Insurance proceeds related to settlement of commercial dispute – (6.0)
M&A related adjustments 1.7 4.1
Business divestments and similar income (2.9) (27.1)
Debt and interest rate swap cancellation costs – 15.4
Unwinding of acquisition related discounting 1.7 1.9
Underlying profit before taxation 302.2 327.9
Taxation charge on underlying profit (58.9) (81.2)
Non-controlling interests (0.1) (0.1)
Underlying profit after taxation 243.2 246.6
Underlying earnings per ordinary share (pence) 22.63 22.05
26 Cobham plc  
Financial review continued Dividends 
Following the rebalancing at the interim stage,  
the Board is recommending a final dividend for 
2012 of 6.40 pence (201 1: 6.20 pence). This, 
together with the interim dividend of 2.40 pence 
(201 1: 1.80 pence), will result in a total dividend per 
share for 2012 of 8.80 pence (201 1: 8.00 pence), an 
increase of 10% on the prior year, in line with the 
Group’s long standing, progressive dividend policy. 
The shares will be traded ex dividend on 1 May 
201 3. The dividend will be payable on 31 May  
201 3 to all holders on the register at 3 May 201 3, 
subject to shareholder approval.
The fixed cumulative preferential dividend 
payment on the 6 per cent, second cumulative 
preference shares of £1 each has been approved 
by the Board at the rate of 6.00 pence per share 
(201 1: 6.00 pence). The dividend in respect of the 
year ended 31 December 2012 will be paid on  
31 May 201 3 to all shareholders on the register  
at 3 May 201 3.
Acquisitions and divestments
In June 2012, the quoted Danish company  
Thrane & Thrane was acquired for £275m in cash, 
doubling Cobham’s SATCOM revenue and giving 
the combined operation scale in marine, land and 
airborne SATCOM systems. Integration activity has 
progressed well and the business has continued  
to perform ahead of plan. Pre-tax cost savings of 
at least £4m will be realised in 201 3 and 2014, with 
savings already achieved from a reduction in 
corporate costs and the streamlining of significant 
areas of engineering overlap. 
In July 2012, Cobham completed the planned 
divestment of its non-core emergency locator 
beacon businesses for US$73m on a debt and 
cash free basis, with an additional consideration  
of up to US$5m contingent on future events.  
This was the most significant remaining step 
towards achieving the divestment of the  
Group’s non-core activities.
Cash flow and net debt
Operating cash flow, which is stated after capital 
expenditure but before interest and tax payments, 
was £339.3m (201 1: £337 . 1m). Operating cash 
conversion was strong at 104% (201 1: 95%)  
of trading profit, before the Group’s share of  
post-tax results of joint ventures, driven by  
an improvement in working capital. Pension 
payments were £15m (201 1: £49m) in excess  
of the service cost. 
The Group included the £31.8m (201 1: £37 .0m)  
of payments relating to EiD within free cash flow. 
After this, net interest payments of £28.7m  
(201 1: £33.0m), higher tax payments of £45.2m 
(201 1: £24.3m) and the receipt of dividends from 
joint ventures, the Group generated free cash  
flow of £241. 1m (201 1: £250.9m). Out of this,  
it paid dividends of £92.5m (201 1: £69.4m) and 
£18.8m (201 1: £159.5m) on share purchases,  
of which £150m in 201 1 related to a share  
buy-back programme.
In addition, the Group paid a net £274.6m  
(201 1: £77 . 1m inflow) primarily relating to the 
acquisition of Thrane & Thrane and a loan 
investment in a Group joint venture in connection 
with the financing of helicopters. This was partially 
offset by the proceeds from the divestment of  
the emergency locator beacon businesses.
The table on page 28 sets out the Group’s cash 
flows over the period.
Treasury
The Group’s treasury activities are managed 
centrally by the Group Treasury function,  
which reports to the Chief Financial Officer. The  
Treasury function operates within written policies 
and delegation levels that have been approved by 
the Board. It is the Group’s policy that trading in 
financial instruments is used only for risk 
management purposes.
Debt and financing
At the year end, after funding and exchange 
movements, net debt which comprises short  
term cash balances and fixed term borrowings 
increased to £359.9m (201 1: £232.5m). Included in 
this were exchange movements of £1 7 .4m which 
decreased net debt, as it is the Group’s policy to 
hold a significant proportion of its borrowings in 
foreign currency, principally US dollars, as a natural 
hedge against assets and earnings denominated  
in those currencies.
At 31 December 2012, the Group was 
conservatively geared at 0.9 times net debt/
EBITDA, after the £275m net outflow during  
the year relating to acquisitions. Net interest  
cover during the year was healthy at 12 times 
(201 1: 10 times).
Included within net debt are sterling and US dollar 
cash deposits, as well as borrowings which are 
primarily denominated in US dollars and which  
are held for the reasons described in the section 
on foreign exchange below. At 31 December 2012  
the Group held total cash and short term bank 
deposits, all with an original maturity of three 
months or less, of £264.2m (31 December 201 1: 
£345.6m).
The Group’s principal borrowings include:
 A US$360m multi-currency credit agreement 
which became available during 2012, of which 
US$90m expires October 2016 and US$270m 
expires October 201 7 . Interest is payable at  
the applicable benchmark rate of the drawn 
currencies plus margin, of which US$347 .9m  
had been drawn down under this agreement  
at the year end;
 A EUR70m multi-currency credit agreement  
was signed during 2012 and expires in June 201 7 . 
Interest is payable at the applicable benchmark 
rate of the drawn currencies plus margin, of 
which DKK121m had been drawn down under 
this agreement at the year end;
 A DKK525m multi-currency credit agreement 
was signed during 2012 and expires in October 
2016. Interest is payable at the applicable 
benchmark rate of the drawn currencies plus 
margin, of which DKK1 74m had been drawn 
down under this agreement at the year end;
 US$359m of senior notes maturing in tranches  
in 2014, 2016, 2019 and 2020 with an average 
coupon of 6.25%; and
 US$155m of senior notes maturing in 201 7  
and 2018, with an interest rate at the applicable 
LIBOR rate plus margin.
Thrane & Thrane acquired for 
£275m
27 Cobham plc  
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 2013 T otal
Hedging in place
2014
2015 to 2016
$146m 95% hedged for 2013
Average hedge rate $1.59: £1
Average hedge rate $1.61: £1
Average hedge rate $1.58: £1
$139m
$18m
$76m
50 0 100 150
Cash flow
£m 2012 201 1
Trading profit (excluding joint ventures) 325.7 355.5
Depreciation and other movements 67.7 69.2
Pension contributions in excess of service cost (15.4) (48.8)
Decrease in working capital and provisions 23.7 11.0
Net capital expenditure (62.4) (49.8)
Operating cash flow 339.3 337 .1
Operating cash/trading profit (excl. joint ventures) 104% 95%
Net interest paid (28.7) (33.0)
Taxation paid (45.2) (24.3)
Dividends received from joint ventures 7.5 8.1
Restructuring costs (31.8) (37.0)
Free cash flow 241.1 250.9
Dividends paid (92.5) (69.4)
Acquisition payments less divestment proceeds, other related costs and loans to JVs (274.6) 71.1
Settlement of commercial dispute – 6.0
Net purchase of treasury shares (18.8) (159.5)
Exchange movements 17.4 (5.5)
(Increase)/Decrease in net debt (127.4) 93.6
Historic average effective rate 
2009 $1.70 : £1
2010 $1.58 : £1
2011 $1.56 : £1
2012 $1.59 : £1
Foreign exchange transaction exposure
95% hedged for 201 3
28 Cobham plc  
Financial review continued The EUR70m and DKK525m multi-currency credit 
agreements set out on page 27 were put in place 
due to the acquisition of Thrane & Thrane. 
In October 2012, US$1 70m of 5.58% senior notes 
matured on their due date.
Further details on the Group’s borrowings  
are given in note 18 to the Group  
financial statements.
Foreign exchange
The Group’s aim is to reduce, or eliminate 
whenever practical, transaction foreign exchange 
risk, of which the pound sterling/US dollar 
exchange rate is the most important. This is 
primarily because many global aerospace and 
defence contracts are denominated in US dollars. 
Additionally, translation exposure arises on the 
earnings of operating companies largely based 
in the USA, partly offset by dollar denominated 
interest costs.
The average and closing US$/£ exchange rates in 
the year are as follows:
US$/£ 2012 201 1
Average rate 1.58 1.60
Year end rate 1.63 1.55
All foreign exchange hedging transactions are 
approved under delegated authority from the 
Board. A number of financial instruments are  
used to manage transactional foreign exchange 
exposure, such as forward rate contracts. The 
Group has a policy of hedging at least 80% of 
estimated transactional exposure for the next  
12 months, a proportion of exposures between  
12 and 36 months and firm exposures on long 
term contracts. Details of the most significant  
of these instruments are described in notes 22 
and 24 of the Notes to the Group financial 
statements. Some 95% of the Group’s anticipated 
exposure to the pound sterling/US dollar 
exchange rate movements is hedged for 201 3  
at an average rate of US$1.59.
With respect to translation exposure, the Group 
generally funds the acquisition of overseas 
companies using borrowings denominated in  
the same currency. This serves to hedge acquired 
assets with liabilities in the same currency and 
provides partial hedging of currency denominated 
profits through the interest line. 
Interest rates
The Group has various long and short term 
borrowings at both fixed and floating rates  
of interest. The Group continually monitors  
its exposure to movements in interest rates  
to bring greater stability and certainty to 
borrowing costs, with the policy being to assess 
the proportion of borrowings that are fixed and 
floating in the context of prevailing market 
conditions. For 2012, the Group’s exposure to 
floating rates of interest on its borrowings was 
largely converted to fixed rate exposure through 
the use of interest rate swaps. 
Note 24 of the Group financial statements gives 
more details on the financial risks facing the 
Group.
Retirement obligations
The Group operates a number of defined benefit 
schemes, the most significant being the Cobham 
Pension Plan. At 31 December 2012, the estimated 
deficit for accounting purposes between the value 
of the defined benefit schemes’ assets and the 
present value of the future liabilities was £73.4m 
before deferred tax (201 1: £71.2m). 
The biggest movements related to:
 An actuarial loss of £15.7m, of which some £48m 
related to the fall in bond yields, partially offset 
by an increase in the value of scheme assets as 
part of the detailed triennial review
 Employer contributions made in excess of the 
service cost (net employer funding) of £15.4m.
The principal movements in the deficit before tax 
during the year were as follows:
£m
Pension deficit at 1 January 2012 (71.2)
Interest charge (2.0)
Actuarial loss (15.7)
Net employer funding 15.4
Exchange differences 0.1
Pension deficit at 31 December 2012 (73.4)
The purchase of further insurance policies to 
de-risk the Group’s defined benefit schemes is 
currently under evaluation. If further purchases 
were to be made this would have the effect, for 
accounting purposes only, of increasing the 
estimated deficit.
The Group’s defined benefit pension schemes 
have been closed to new entrants since 2003,  
with alternative defined contribution schemes 
offered in all cases. Cobham remains committed 
to the support of the pension schemes within  
the Group and continues to work with the trustees 
of those schemes to ensure that net deficit issues 
are managed appropriately. During the year the 
Group merged two of the smaller defined benefit 
pension plans into the Cobham Pension Plan in 
order to improve the efficiency of administration 
of the schemes and to realise additional benefits 
of scale.
Further details on the Group’s retirement benefit 
schemes, the amounts recognised in operating 
profit and the changes in value of defined benefit 
schemes during the year are given in note 23 to 
the Group financial statements.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with 
factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position are set out in the 
Business overview on pages 16 to 23 and the 
principal risks on pages 14 and 15. In addition, 
notes 22 and 24 of the Notes to the Group 
financial statements include the Group’s 
objectives, policies and processes for managing its 
capital, financial risk management, details of 
financial instruments and hedging activities and its 
exposure to credit, liquidity and other risks.
The Group has considerable financial resources 
together with long term contracts with a number 
of customers across different geographic areas.  
As a consequence, the Directors believe that  
the Group is well placed to manage its business 
risks successfully. 
Accordingly, after making enquiries, the Directors 
have formed a judgement at the time of 
approving the financial statements that it is their 
expectation that the Company and the Group as  
a whole have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the Group and parent 
company financial statements.
 
29 Cobham plc  
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate responsibility and sustainability is fundamental  
to the achievement of the Group’s strategy through the 
implementation of the strategic objectives and by 
underpinning Cobham’s values 
Corporate responsibility and sustainability (CR&S) 
is fundamental to the achievement of Cobham’s 
strategy through the implementation of the 
Group’s strategic objectives, shown on pages 10 
and 1 1, and by underpinning Cobham’s values.  
The following section explains how CR&S forms  
an integral part of Cobham’s business model and 
future success in terms of: what is made, how it is 
made, how progress is sustained, performance 
management and next steps.  
What is made 
Cobham manufactures products and delivers 
services that protect lives and livelihoods and 
generate a number of environmental benefits. 
Examples include slip rings used in wind turbines, 
3D electromagnetic design software to improve 
wind turbine design and composite flywheel 
energy storage devices. 
 
The size, weight and power consumption (SWaP) 
of Cobham’s products are fundamental to the 
competitiveness of the Group because customers 
and end users want to maximise the equipment 
that expensive platforms (such as aircraft, satellites 
and unmanned aerial vehicles) can carry. 
 
Customers and end users demand reduced 
installation and operating costs, particularly fuel 
burn, for systems that are likely to be in service  
for decades. This is increasingly important as 
Cobham shifts its portfolio towards commercial 
markets where environmental issues are given 
even more prominence.
How it is made
Smaller, lighter products require less factory  
space, less packaging and are cheaper to transport 
to customers. As products become more  
modular, installation time is reduced and  
savings on material costs and reduced weight  
are also realised. 
However, products that embody SWaP goals can 
still be made inefficiently, generating unnecessary 
waste, energy consumption, manufacturing and 
assembly space. As such, Cobham endeavours to 
not only design products that reduce SWaP , but 
also to engage the entire value chain, including 
R&D, supply chain management, assembly, 
distribution, operation, and end-of-life to  
ensure that processes are efficient by design.
 
In 2010, Cobham embarked on its EiD programme 
to transform how the Group operates across 14 
principal manufacturing locations, representing 
approximately 80% of Group revenue. EiD is 
comprised of three key elements. Firstly, it 
implements a set of standardised, world class 
processes in engineering and project 
management, supply chain and production 
systems that are leading to higher production 
yields, less waste, shorter lead times, smaller 
production areas and less energy consumption 
during production. 
Reducing fuel burn
Reductions in size and weight lead to lower material 
usage and significant reductions in costs, such as 
fuel burn for aircraft, due to lower aerodynamic 
drag and weight. One manufacturer reported that 
Cobham’s lower profile, lighter SATCOM antenna 
would save more than $20,000 per aircraft every 
year compared to another product.
Providing faster and more comfortable flights
Cobham’s Aviation Services business has introduced the use of kits for its BAe146 aircraft in Australia to 
enable its jet aircraft to operate out of unsealed and gravel airstrips. The gravel kit modification improves 
fuel efficiency from increased point to point flying, with faster flights in safe, quiet jets for mining workers, 
creating a happier and more productive workforce.
Secondly, EiD is introducing a new Enterprise 
Resource Planning IT system to lock in these  
world class processes and provide the information 
needed to run the business more effectively  
and facilitate continuous improvement.
Thirdly, as additional manufacturing space 
becomes available in the principal manufacturing 
locations, opportunities are created to consolidate 
Cobham’s geographic footprint, reducing the 
number of smaller production facilities and 
associated operating costs.
While EiD is focused on meeting the needs of 
Cobham’s customers though improved quality, 
cost, delivery and responsiveness, it also provides 
the additional benefits of reducing environmental 
impacts and increasing workforce capabilities 
through significant levels of training, while providing 
a range of career development opportunities. 
Cobham is also taking the opportunity to integrate 
standardised, world class responsible business 
practices such as design for environment in 
 R&D, sustainable procurement in supply chain 
management and S|H|E (safety, health and 
environment) in production and integration activity. 
30 Cobham plc  
Corporate responsibility and sustainability  
In response to the increasing global legislation 
surrounding the use of hazardous chemicals,  
Cobham’s policy is to eliminate or substitute 
hazardous chemicals for less harmful substitutes 
where they do not adversely impact product 
performance or reliability.
Cobham’s Aviation Services business works to 
optimise the use of aircraft it owns and those 
it operates on behalf of its customers, as well  
as its operating bases through its operations  
and maintenance programmes and by  
increasing the use of synthetics in its training 
programmes. These activities ensure Cobham 
delivers a safe, reliable and efficient service  
that minimises wastage. 
How progress is sustained
Cobham proudly states that ‘The most important 
thing we build is trust’, which requires that all we 
do be underpinned by a foundation of ethical 
behaviour, with employees empowered to always 
‘do the right thing’. The Corporate Framework and 
Code of Business Conduct (Code) govern the way 
Cobham personnel conduct business and their 
relationships with others. Specific policies and 
programmes address material issues, such  
as anti-bribery and anti-corruption (ABAC), 
international trade compliance and US 
government contracting and can be found  
on Cobham’s CR&S website at 
www.cobhamsustainability.com.
Cobham must continue to retain and attract 
talent to provide a sustainable skill base for 
products that stay in service for decades. Without 
this talent, continual improvements to what is 
made and how it is made are not sustainable.  
Cobham operates in a dynamic global 
marketplace, therefore strategic workforce 
planning is vital to ensure that future business 
needs are identified, competency gaps identified 
and plans established. 
Having the right technical and management 
talent is important, but Cobham also wants  
its people to work in accordance with the 
Group’s values of excellence, integrity, 
commitment, innovation, cooperation and 
accountability. Cobham’s goal for safety, 
health and environment is ‘zero harm’ and  
‘zero regrets’. The Group aspires to have  
no work-related injuries or illnesses and  
to minimise environmental impacts where 
practicable. The Group’s S|H|E policy, which  
is available on the CR&S website, and 
standardised management approach covers its 
own operations and those of its supply chain.
Recognising outstanding contributions
In 2009 the biennial Sir Alan Cobham Awards  
were introduced to help recognise the outstanding 
contributions that are being made every day by 
Cobham employees in five different categories. 
Across the Group 500 employees were recognised 
in 2009, increasing to 620 in 2011. 
Managing bribery and corruption risks
Cobham recognised for carbon disclosure
Cobham featured in the CDP Carbon Disclosure Leadership index for the first time, putting it in the top 10% of the FTSE 350. Cobham’s submission can be viewed  
at www.cdproject.net.
Teamwork
Technical 
Innovation
Employee 
Engagement
Customer 
Satisfaction
CR&S
Cobham’s policy of zero tolerance towards bribery and 
corruption is a fundamental part of the Code. The Group  
also recognises the potential bribery and corruption risks 
posed by the markets in which it operates and, in particular, 
the potential bribery and corruption risks posed by the use  
of third party intermediaries. Accordingly, Cobham’s ABAC 
policy requires each third party intermediary to undergo  
a comprehensive, robust due diligence and approval process 
before it is engaged. The process requires scrutiny and 
approval from an independent body, the Advisor Approval 
Board chaired by the Legal Function and, in certain 
circumstances, from the Executive Directors. Proper 
assessment and management of ABAC risks is also an  
integral part of Cobham’s M&A activity, both pre- and  
post-acquisition, including a review of the markets in which  
a target operates, its use of intermediaries, and the prompt 
subsequent implementation of Cobham ABAC policies.
31 Cobham plc  
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Cobham contributes to the wider community 
through the course of its business by creating 
employment, offering apprenticeship 
opportunities to young people and by investing  
in good causes that are relevant to the business. 
Cobham’s policy is to support science, technology, 
engineering and maths education, armed forces 
and ex-services personnel charities, disaster relief, 
and other employee based causes in the 
communities around our sites.
Cobham also encourages employees to get 
involved in activities, not only to help the 
community but also to foster a team spirit  
and a positive working culture. Employees get 
involved in fundraising activities and by donating 
time and expertise to help good causes.
Data verification
Cobham collects data annually on CR&S KPIs from 
its wholly-owned operational subsidiaries. This 
excludes Cobham’s joint ventures which are not 
under operational control, sites with less than  
five people, sites leased to tenants, vacant 
properties being disposed of, and any business 
units that have been closed or divested during  
the course of the year for which there is less than 
six months of reported data. 100% of Cobham’s 
wholly-owned operations by turnover have been 
reviewed internally to identify omissions and 
significant variations (i.e. 5%) from the prior year. 
Cobham has commissioned an external assurance 
provider, KPMG, to provide limited assurance of  
its 2012 carbon data. The assurance statement 
 will be made available on the CR&S section  
of Cobham’s website.
Performance management and next steps 
Two of Cobham’s six KPIs are about people: 
voluntary staff turnover and staff safety. To have  
a sustainable business, Cobham must attract, 
develop and retain superior talent and manage  
it across the business. The measure of voluntary 
staff turnover provides insight to retention, with a 
target turnover of less than 10%. This level reflects 
the normal upper range of turnover experienced 
across the many geographic locations that 
Cobham operates in, with an appropriate level  
of churn to refresh the talent base. 
Cobham wants its employees to work in 
 a safe, healthy environment, with a goal  
of no major accidents.
Group KPIs Target
2012
actual
201 1
actual
Voluntary staff turnover <10% 8.7% 8.4%
The measure of voluntary staff turnover provides insight to retention, with a target that reflects  
the normal upper range of turnover experienced across the many geographic locations that 
 Cobham operates in, with an appropriate level of churn to refresh the talent base.
Key next steps
A certain degree of voluntary turnover is inevitable in a time of change in markets and in the  
Company’s organisation. Regular employee feedback channels are being developed to ensure  
that Cobham understands the reasons for voluntary turnover so that it can retain its key talent.
Major accident incidence rate* 0 666 465
Cobham’s goal to achieve zero harm, i.e. no major accidents, was introduced in 2009. It requires  
changes to policies, procedures and practices, particularly as a number of the companies acquired  
by Cobham over the past decade have been smaller, entrepreneurial businesses. Improvements are  
showing through in terms of enhanced levels of reporting, but not yet in the accident rate. The increase  
in major accidents is also in part due to increased activity levels on sites being integrated. A strategic review  
of health and safety was conducted in 2012 and the findings are currently being acted on as set out below.
Key next steps
Cobham has set out a new strategy to support the achievement of its zero harm goal. This includes  
the establishment of an Executive led steering committee, integrating health and safety into the  
strategic planning process, conducting additional training of line management and building an efficient  
and effective practitioner base.
* per 100,000 employees
Donating time and effort for charity
Cobham Antenna Systems employees donated 
their time and efforts in support of Help for Heroes. 
Cobham employees successfully completed 
challenging navigational tasks and raised over 
£12,500 for charity.
32 Cobham plc  
Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued Key focus areas and performance indicators (KPIs) Target
2012
actual
201 1
actual
Ethics
Code of Business Conduct training 100% 99% 99%
Cobham continues to push for the highest levels of awareness in relation to the conduct  
of its business activities, targeting 100% training completion on an annual basis.
Key next steps
Cobham’s process for capturing training activity regarding people joining and leaving the company  
is being improved to help ensure that the reported training completion levels are accurate.  
In addition, businesses and people that have not completed the training will be named  
when the Group Executive reviews the KPI on a monthly basis.
Employee development
Number of senior appointments sourced internally 30% >30% >30%
Cobham continues to develop and recruit talent from within wherever possible. The EiD programme  
has given a number of development opportunities and is looking to reabsorb this talent back into the  
business when the programme ends. Expansion of the Graduate Development Programme into the US  
has proven successful with 18 US graduates now on the scheme. A new learning management system was  
launched in late 2012 linked to the Group’s 24 competencies and has already been used by employees 
 on a self-service basis to develop themselves in accordance with their performance development objectives.
Key next steps
Cobham is considering expanding its Graduate Development Programme into Australia, developing  
an accredited Cobham Management Programme, further expanding its learning management system  
and improving the accuracy of its strategic workforce planning activity.
Energy and climate change
Total energy consumption (MWh/£m turnover)
1
900 1,064 945
2
Total greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2/£m ) N/A 289.5 260.7
Cobham’s energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions are mainly driven by the Group’s  
use of aviation fuel in the Aviation Services business, which accounts for 91%. As Aviation Services  
successfully grows, by operating more aircraft or achieving higher levels of utilisation, energy  
consumption increases, which largely accounts for the increase from 201 1 to 2012. Increased  
levels of activity associated with integrating and closing manufacturing sites have also  
contributed to this figure, which is a temporary feature.
Key next steps
Cobham is continuing to integrate smaller business units into its principal manufacturing locations,  
which will reduce its facility energy and greenhouse emissions footprint still further. In addition,  
the Group is including environmental performance within its strategic planning process, which  
will provide greater visibility and monitoring of the initiatives being undertaken at the site level.
¹ Total energy consumption includes electricity, natural gas, heating oil and all aviation fuel
2
 Reduced from reported 998 MWh/£m turnover in 2011 due to incorrect conversion factor being used
Further detail on Cobham’s policies, performance and actions can be found on the CR&S website at
www.cobhamsustainability.com
33 Cobham plc  
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Independent Directors
Number held 11
Number attended
J Devaney 11
R Murphy
1
6
A Stevens
2
 5
W Tucker 11
M Beresford 11
J Patterson 11
M Wareing 11
M Ronald 10
M Hagee 11
A Wood 11
1
 R Murphy appointed on 25 June 2012
2
 A Stevens retired from the Board on 1 August 2012
Board meeting attendance for 2012
34 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Board of Directors
4
7
2 1
5
8
3
6
9
10 1. J Devaney 
Non-executive Chairman 
BEng, CEng, FIMechE, FIEE 
Age 65
Appointed: Director February 2010, Chairman May 
2010 and Executive Chairman November 201 1. John 
reverted to Non-executive Chairman June 2012
Skills and Experience: John’s executive career was 
built in engineering companies within the Varity Group. 
John has previously served as Non-executive  
Director of Northern Rock Asset Management (between 
2007 and 2010) and Chairman of Marconi plc, later  
renamed Telent. He was President of Perkins Engines  
in the mid-1980s, and he went on to be President  
of Kelsey-Hayes, the automotive components 
manufacturer. He was subsequently Chief Executive  
of Eastern Electricity, the largest regional electricity 
company in the UK at the time. Following its acquisition 
by Hanson he was appointed Executive Chairman  
of the Group. John retired from his role as Non-
executive Chairman of National Express Group plc  
on 31 January 2013.
External Appointments: Non-executive Chairman 
of NATS, the National Air Traffic Services
Committee Membership: Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee and member of the 
Remuneration Committee
2. R Murphy 
Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director 
Age 55
Appointed: June 2012
Skills and Experience: Bob was with BAE Systems  
for 1 3 years from 1999, serving as a member of the 
Executive Committee of BAE Systems plc as Executive 
Vice President for the global operations of the Product 
Sectors business for BAE Systems, Inc. including 
Electronic Systems, Land & Armaments and Platform 
Solutions sector. He has also held a number of other 
senior operational and financial roles with BAE Systems. 
Prior to this, Bob spent 18 years with General Electric 
Company (GE) where he held numerous financial 
leadership positions, culminating in his role as CFO  
of the military engines operation of the GE Aircraft  
Engines Group.
External Appointments: Board of Trustees for the 
US National Defense Industrial Association and the 
Board of Visitors for the Clark School of Engineering  
at the University of Maryland
Committee Membership: Executive Directors 
Committee
3. W Tucker
Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director 
BSc, ACA, MBA 
Age 50
Appointed: May 2003
Skills and Experience: Warren joined the Group  
as Chief Financial Officer in 2003, is a chartered 
accountant, and has an MBA from INSEAD. Prior to 
joining, he worked at Arthur Andersen, Lazard, held 
senior finance positions at British Airways, Euro Disney 
and was Deputy Group Financial Director of Cable  
and Wireless. Warren will stand down as Chief  
Financial Officer after the Company’s 201 3 Annual 
General Meeting.
External Appointments: Non-executive Director 
and member of the Audit Committee of Reckitt 
Benckiser Group
Committee Membership: Executive Directors 
Committee
4. M Beresford 
Senior Independent Non-executive Director 
CBE, MAMechSc, FIET 
Age 70
Appointed: 2004
Skills and Experience: Marcus was Chairman of 
Ricardo plc from 2003 to 2009 and was a Non-executive 
Director of Spirent plc from 1999 until 2006. He was  
an Executive Director of GKN plc from 1992 to 2002  
and Chief Executive from 2001 to 2002. Marcus will 
stand down as Non-executive Director and Senior 
Independent Director after the Company’s 2013 
Annual General Meeting. 
External Appointments: Non-executive Director  
of Melplash Agricultural Society Limited
Committee Membership: Member of the 
Nomination and Audit Committees. Member of  
the Remuneration Committee until December 2012
5. J Patterson 
Independent Non-executive Director 
CBE, MBChB, FRCP, Fmed Sci 
Age 65
Appointed: 2005
Skills and Experience: John qualified in medicine  
in 1971 and obtained a Membership (now Fellowship)  
of the Royal College of Physicians in 1974. He joined  
ICI (now AstraZeneca) in 1975 and in December 2004 
was appointed to the main Board as Executive Director 
responsible for development. He retired as a Director  
of that firm in March 2009. He is a former President of 
the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry,  
a former Non-executive Director of Amersham plc and  
a former member of the supervisory Board of the UK 
Medicines Control Agency. 
External Appointments: Non-executive Director  
of Ferring Holding SA 
Committee Membership: Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and a member of the 
Nomination Committee. Member of the Audit 
Committee until December 2012
6. M Wareing
Independent Non-executive Director 
CMG, FCA, FCCA, MCSI 
Age 58
Appointed: 2010
Skills and Experience: Michael worked for KPMG 
from 1973 until 2009 when he retired. Between 2005 
and 2009, he was International Chief Executive Officer, 
KPMG, Chairman, KPMG International Executive Team 
and Chairman, KPMG Iberoamerica Board. He was 
formerly the Prime Minister’s Envoy for Reconstruction 
in Southern Iraq. 
External Appointments: Non-executive Director  
and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Wolseley plc 
and Senior Independent Non-executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee of Intertek Group plc, 
and Economic Development Adviser to the Government 
of Afghanistan
Committee Membership: Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and member of the Nomination Committee
 
7. M Ronald 
Independent Non-executive Director 
CBE, BA, BScEE, MScEE 
Age 71
Appointed: 2007
Skills and Experience: Mark was, until his retirement 
at the end of 2006, Chief Operating Officer of BAE 
Systems plc and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems 
Inc, its wholly-owned US subsidiary. Previously he was 
Vice-President, programme management with Litton 
Industries and Chief Operating Officer of AEL Industries. 
Mark was a Non-executive Director of DynCorp 
International Inc. 
External Appointments: Non-executive Director  
of ATK Inc. and Aeroflex Holdings, Inc, senior adviser  
of Veritas Capital LLC and a management consultant
Committee Membership: Member of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committees
8. M Hagee 
Independent Non-executive Director 
Age 68
Appointed: 2008
Skills and Experience: Mike served in the US Marine 
Corps for almost 39 years ending his career in 2007  
as Commandant of the Marine Corps and a member  
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. His numerous military 
assignments included Commanding General, 1st Marine 
Expeditionary Force, Deputy Director of Operations  
at the US European Command and Executive Assistant 
to the Director of Central Intelligence. He also served  
in a number of diplomatic missions including the 
presidential diplomatic mission to Somalia.
External Appointments: President and CEO of the 
Admiral Nimitz Foundation in Fredericksburg, Texas, 
USA, Co-Chairman of the National Security Advisory 
Council for the Center of US Global Engagement and 
US Global Leadership Campaign, Non-executive Director 
of sgi Corp., Kaseman LLC, DynCorp International Inc. 
and Freedom Group Inc., Outside Director on the 
Government Security Committee of the Special  
Security Agreement of TE SubCom, a TE Connectivity 
Limited company
Committee Membership: Member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees. Member of the Remuneration 
Committee until December 2012
9. A Wood
Independent Non-executive Director
MA, MBA 
Age 49
Appointed: 201 1
Skills and Experience: Alison is currently Global 
Director Corporate Development & Strategy for 
National Grid plc. She was formerly Group Strategic 
Development Director for BAE Systems plc responsible 
for corporate strategy, mergers and acquisitions and 
strategic business development across the UK and US. 
She has held three Non-executive Directorships; BTG plc 
from 2004 to 2008, THUS plc from 2007 to 2008 and 
GCHQ from 2009 to 201 1. 
External Appointments: Chairman of Aerospace, 
Aviation and Defence Knowledge Transfer Network
Committee Membership: Member of the 
Nomination Committee. Joined the Remuneration 
Committee from December 2012
10. A Stevens
Former Chief Executive Officer,  
Executive Director
BSc, CEng, FIET, FRAeS 
Age 55
Appointed: November 2003, appointed Chief 
Executive Officer January 2010
Retired as CEO June 2012
Retired as Director August 2012
Notice period expired 1 January 2013
Skills and Experience: Andy resigned from his role  
as Chief Executive Officer due to a recurring long-term 
serious back injury. Andy joined the Group as Managing 
Director of the Aerospace Systems Group. He was 
appointed Chief Operating Officer of the Technology 
Divisions in September 2005 and in March 2007 
assumed responsibility for operational management, 
performance and profit and loss accountability for the 
Group. Prior to joining he qualified as a chartered 
engineer at Dowty Group and subsequently became 
Chief Operating Officer of Messier Dowty International 
before joining Rolls-Royce as Managing Director, 
Defence Aerospace.
External Appointments: De La Rue plc (with effect 
from 2 January 2013)
Committee Membership: Executive Directors 
Committee (until June 2012)
35 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information This part of the Annual Report, together with the Directors’ remuneration 
report set out on pages 44 to 55, describes how the Company has applied  
and complied with the principles contained in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code published in June 2010 (the Code). The Code is published by the 
Financial Reporting Council and is available from its website (www.frc.org.uk).
Statement of compliance with the provisions of the 
Combined Code
The Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. In accordance 
with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company confirms that 
throughout the year ended 31 December 2012 and at the date of this Annual 
Report, it was compliant with the provisions of the Code. 
Share capital
Details of the share capital of the Company and the powers of the Directors 
in relation to allotment, issue and market purchases of shares are given in the 
Directors’ report on page 56. 
The Board composition
The Board comprises a Non-executive Chairman (John Devaney), a Chief 
Executive Officer (Bob Murphy), a Chief Financial Officer (Warren Tucker)  
and six other Non-executive Directors of whom Marcus Beresford is the 
Senior Independent Director. All Non-executive Directors are considered  
to be independent and the Chairman was considered to be independent  
on appointment. They all held office throughout the year except Bob 
Murphy, who joined the Board on 25 June 2012. Andy Stevens, the former 
Chief Executive Officer, retired for medical reasons from this role on 24 June 
2012. He continued on the Board, in a non-executive capacity, until 1 August 
2012 and provided support to the incoming Chief Executive Officer, Bob 
Murphy, until the end of his notice period on 1 January 201 3. Marcus 
Beresford has completed nine years as a Non-executive Director and will 
stand down from the Board and as Senior Independent Director at the 
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 25 April 201 3. Warren 
Tucker will stand down as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director 
following the AGM. Simon Nicholls, currently Group Finance Director of 
Senior plc, has been appointed as Warren Tucker’s successor and will 
commence in role and join the Board on 1 May 201 3.
Biographies of the Directors, giving details of their experience and other 
significant commitments, are set out on page 35. The wide ranging 
experience and backgrounds of the Non-executive Directors enable them  
to debate and constructively challenge management in relation to both the 
development of strategy and the performance of the Group. The attendance 
of Directors at Board meetings are set out on page 34 and attendance at 
principal Board committee meetings as members of such committees during 
the year are set out in the reports from each committee on pages 40, 42  
and 44. 
Non-executive Directors are appointed for specified terms of three years 
which can be extended by agreement provided that the individual’s 
performance continues to be effective. The rules for the appointment and 
replacement of Directors are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association 
(the Articles) copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the 
UK or by contacting the Company Secretary. Changes to the Articles must  
be approved by shareholders passing a special resolution. The Directors  
and the Company (in the latter case by ordinary resolution) may appoint  
a person who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as  
an additional Director. 
All Non-executives have confirmed they have sufficient time to meet what  
is expected of them. Copies of their appointment letters are available on 
request to the Company Secretary and will be available for inspection at the 
AGM. Under the Articles, Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders 
at the first AGM after their appointment by the Board and are subject to 
re-appointment if they have held office for three years or more since their 
previous appointment by shareholders and, in the case of Non-executive 
Directors, if they have held office for nine years or more since first being 
appointed by shareholders. However, in accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, which recommends that all Directors of FTSE350 
companies seek re-election by shareholders on an annual basis, all Directors 
currently in office will retire and seek re-election at the AGM. In addition, Bob 
Murphy, who was appointed to the Board on 25 June 2012, is seeking election 
by shareholders at the 201 3 AGM for the first time. The Board has set out in 
the circular a resolution to elect Bob Murphy as an Executive Director and 
explains why it believes he should be elected. The Chairman confirms to 
shareholders when proposing election or re-appointment that the individual’s 
performance continues to be effective and that the individual continues to 
demonstrate commitment to the role. Non-executive Directors are subject  
to Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a Director.
The Chairman is, among other things, responsible for chairing Board  
meetings and leading the Board. The Chief Executive Officer’s responsibilities 
include operational performance, corporate social responsibility and the 
development and implementation of the Group’s strategy. He also focuses  
on long-term growth and development of the Group, its people and 
customer relationships. The Board’s policy is that the roles of Chairman  
and Chief Executive Officer should be performed by different people. The 
division of responsibilities between the Chairman’s role and that of the Chief 
Executive Officer is documented and clearly understood. The Chairman 
performed an executive role during the first half of the year whilst the search 
for the new Chief Executive Officer was underway but reverted to his 
Non-executive role on the appointment of Bob Murphy.
The Senior Independent Director’s responsibilities include the provision  
of an additional channel of communication between the Chairman and  
the Non-executive Directors. He also provides another point of contact  
for shareholders if they have concerns which communication through  
the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial 
Officer has failed to resolve, or where these contacts are inappropriate. 
As noted above, Marcus Beresford will stand down as Non-executive Director 
and Senior Independent Director at the conclusion of the AGM. The role 
of Senior Independent Director will be assumed by Michael Wareing 
following Marcus’ retirement. The search process for a new Non-executive 
Director has been started and Korn/Ferry Whitehead Mann have been 
appointed to provide details of suitable candidates for the role. Korn/Ferry 
have signed up to the Voluntary Code for executive search firms and provide 
no other services to us other than recruitment consultants. We will ensure 
that Korn/Ferry supply a suitable number of candidates from diverse 
backgrounds to complement the Board’s existing skills and experience.
36 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate governance Comments from the Chairman
“A key focus during 2012 has been search, selection and induction into  
the business of a new Chief Executive Officer. The US defence/security 
market remains highly uncertain and we are planning for a period of declining, 
then flat budgets, consistent with previous down cycles. Therefore, it was 
important the Group found the right successor to Andy Stevens to continue 
the strategic journey and to bring strength and leadership for the future.”
J Devaney 
Role and focus
The Board’s main duties are to: 
 Lead the Group with a view to the creation of strong, sustainable  
financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
 Review and agree Group strategy.
 Ensure that the necessary resources are in place.
 Monitor management performance.
 Supervise the conduct of the Group’s activities within a framework  
of prudent and effective internal controls.
Highlights of 2012
 The Board and senior management participated in two separate meetings 
devoted to the consideration and development of the Group’s strategy.
 Acquisition of the Thrane & Thrane group of companies.
 Overseen the negotiation of new banking facilities.
 Overseen the search and appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer.
 Evaluated and approved seven large bid submissions above authority limits 
delegated to the Executive Directors.
 Completed externally facilitated Board Evaluation.
Priorities for 2013
 Review performance against agreed strategic enablers.
 Continued focus on market evaluation and strategic development.
 Continued rebalance of the portfolio towards the commercial market.
Board meetings, scheduled in accordance with the annual timetable, take 
place six times a year on a face to face basis, five times a year by telephone 
and otherwise as required. There is contact between meetings to progress 
the Group’s business as required. Meetings were held at the head office  
in Wimborne, at the Company’s London office and at an international 
operational location. In addition, the Senior Independent Director held a 
meeting with the Non-executives in the absence of the Chairman to appraise 
the Chairman’s performance. The Chairman has held meetings with the 
Non-executives in the absence of the Executive Directors. 
The Board’s role is to lead the Group with a view to the creation of strong, 
sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its specific 
approval. The schedule provides the framework for those decisions which  
can be made by the Board and those which can be delegated either to 
committees or otherwise. Among the key matters on which the Board alone 
may make decisions are the Group’s business strategy, its five year plan, its 
consolidated budget, Group policies, dividends, acquisitions and disposals, 
and all appointments to and removals from the Board. Authority is delegated 
to management on a structured basis in accordance with the provisions of 
the Corporate Framework ensuring that proper management oversight exists 
at the appropriate level. Matters delegated in this way include, within defined 
parameters, the approval of bids and contracts, capital expenditures and 
financing arrangements. 
The Board has adopted procedures relating to the conduct of its business, 
including the timely provision of information, and the Company Secretary is 
responsible for ensuring that these are observed and for advising the Board 
on corporate governance matters. The Company Secretary is appointed,  
and can only be removed, by the Board.
If a Director were to have a concern which cannot be resolved this would be 
recorded in the Board minutes. On resignation, Non-executive Directors are 
invited to provide a written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the 
Board if they have concerns. No such statements were made during 2012.
All potential situational and transactional conflicts of interest are disclosed, 
noted and authorised. Procedures are in place and operating effectively to 
keep such disclosures up to date.
Performance evaluation
The Board conducts an evaluation of its activities on an annual basis.  
During 2012, the Board and its committees undertook an external  
evaluation, conducted by Institute of Chartered Secretaries and 
Administrators consultants. The evaluation included the circulation  
of a questionnaire to stimulate thinking prior to an interview with the  
external assessors. The performance of individual Board members was 
evaluated as part of this process. The Board considered the output and  
has approved an action plan to address issues arising. 
A table of actions instigated by this and the previous performance evaluation 
is included below.
37 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The Board and its proceedings Financial reporting
In the Directors’ view, the Annual Report and Accounts for 2012, together 
with the interim management statements, the interim report and other 
reports made during the year, present a balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Group’s position and prospects. 
The Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the  
Annual Report and Accounts as stated in the Financial review on page 29.
Shareholder relations
A full programme of engagement with investors and analysts, both in the 
United Kingdom and overseas, is undertaken each year by the Chief Executive 
Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Director of Investor Relations, including 
presentations, roadshows and site visits. Site visits are hosted by senior 
members of management within the business units and are intended to 
give investors detailed insight and access to the business’ operations.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities 
of the Group and engages in regular dialogue with them. During the year the 
Chairman, while acting in an executive capacity, the Chief Executive Officer 
and the Chief Financial Officer held regular meetings with shareholders to 
discuss information made public by the Group. A wide range of business  
and corporate governance topics were discussed with institutional investors 
during the year as part of the investor relations programme. These included 
Cobham’s overall performance, the Group’s markets, progress on the Group’s 
Excellence in Delivery programme, changes in senior management and  
cash deployment including dividends, share buy-backs and mergers  
and acquisitions.
The Non-executive Chairman and the Senior Independent Director 
are available to meet with major shareholders. The Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee has consulted with major shareholders twice 
during the year with regards to executive remuneration arrangements.
Presentations were given on the day of the announcement of the interim  
and preliminary results. The presentations are accompanied by a live webcast 
for shareholders unable to attend in person. Copies of the associated 
presentation materials, together with webcasts, can be accessed at  
www.cobhaminvestors.com. Presentations are conducted in accordance 
with the FSA’s Disclosure Rules on the dissemination of inside information.
The Board receives a report from the Chief Financial Officer at each of its 
meetings on investor relations generally, including significant changes to 
shareholdings, meetings with and feedback from shareholders and research 
published on the Group. A formal presentation to the Board is given once  
per year by the Director of Investor Relations, including an overview of 
shareholder sentiment.
Communication with shareholders also takes place via RNS announcements, 
the Group’s website, the Annual Report, the interim management statements 
and at the AGM. The AGM is attended by all Directors and shareholders have 
the opportunity to question the Board on its stewardship of the Group and  
to meet the Directors informally. The results of the votes on the resolutions 
proposed at the AGM are published on the Group’s website at  
www.cobhaminvestors.com.
Responsibility statements
Statements relating to the responsibilities of the Directors are on page 60  
and those relating to the auditors are on pages 61 and 1 1 3.
Board and Committees performance evaluation
Evaluation Year Observations Actions Taken
2011 Devote time, as part of the Nomination Committee's review, 
to discuss the profile of the individual required for new Board 
members before each appointment.
The appointment of the new Chief Executive Officer was led by the Chairman, taking 
into account the profile discussed with the Nomination Committee and specifically 
ensuring the appointee is the right individual to take forward the  
Group Strategic Plan. Bob Murphy joined the Group on 25 June 2012.
Establish a plan to bring in new talent for key posts, ensuring 
talent and succession planning are driven forward.
Talent and succession planning will continue to be a Board focus during 2012 and 
2013. Various actions in relation to talent and succession planning are underway.  
The people section of the Directors’ report at page 58 contains further details.
Increase the frequency of discussions at the Board on market 
positioning, on technology assets, and on implementation  
of the Group Strategic Plan.
The Board implemented new reporting and quarterly strategic updates during 2012.
2012 The risk management process needs to be strengthened  
with clear delineation between the work of the Risk and  
Audit Committees and the Board.
The Risk Committee will be strengthened during 2013 with the membership 
expanded to include the Group Executive. Greater focus will be placed on the  
risk identification process and the risk appetite.
More rigour should be placed around paper compilation  
and submission.
The substance of reports will be improved and a standard reporting format adopted, 
introducing a more timely and efficient process.
Senior management objectives need to be visible to  
the Board to support talent and succession planning.
 Objectives for the Group Executive will be presented to the Board for review.
 Opportunities for the Board to meet the members of the Cobham high potential 
programme will be pursued.
38 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate governance continued Summary of 2012 Investor Relations activity
Site Visits
Investor Meetings Investor Meetings
Site Visits Site Visits
Webcast &
Conference
Call
Interactive
Webcast &
Conference
Call
 
Interim 
2012 
Results
 
Interim 
management
statement*
 
Preliminary
2011 Results
Conference
Call
 
Interim
management
statement*
Investors’ Conferences Investors’ Conferences Investors’ 
Conferences
* Interim management statement is a short quarterly update on the Group's trading, significant events and financial position.     
Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
Board committees 
The Board is supported in its work by a number of committees. The Company 
Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees. Committee chairmen 
provide oral reports on the work undertaken by their committees at the 
following Board meeting. Information relating to the Nomination and 
Audit Committees appears below and the activities of the Remuneration 
Committee are described in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages  
44 to 55. All Board committees are provided with sufficient resources  
to undertake their duties.
The other principal Board committee is the Executive Directors Committee. 
The Executive Directors are members of this Committee under the 
chairmanship of the Chief Executive Officer. The purpose is to assist the  
Board of Directors
Audit 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Executive Directors Committee
Group Executive (incorporating the Risk Committee)
Contract Bid 
Approval 
Committee
Investment 
Committee
Corporate 
Responsibility  
& Sustainability
Business  
Ethics 
& Compliance
Safety, Health
& Environment
Internal Audit 
Committee
Talent  
Board
Principal Board 
Committees
Management Committees
Chief Executive Officer in the performance of his duties and its terms of 
reference include establishing and implementing internal policies, systems 
and controls to ensure that potential inside information is communicated  
to it, considered, verified and released to the market where required,  
the discharge of obligations arising under the Company’s share plans, 
the determination of the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors,  
the approval of banking facilities and the approval of bids and contracts.  
This Committee met on 24 occasions during the year and, in addition,  
as required to respond to business needs and market conditions.
The Group Executive Committee and the other principal management 
committees are shown in the table below.
39 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
The Board is ultimately responsible 
for corporate governance and the 
Group’s system of internal control, 
with day to day responsibility 
resting with management. Role and focus
The Nomination Committee’s main duties are to: 
 Review the structure, size and composition of the Board.
 Consider succession planning for Directors and other senior executives.
 
Highlights of 2012
 Evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board.
 Considered external appointments to subsidiary Boards.
 Considered succession planning to ensure the Group is well positioned  
for the future.
 Conducted a thorough and comprehensive search for a new  
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
 Conducted an effectiveness review.
Priorities for 2013
 Non-executive Director search and recruitment process underway  
to replace Marcus Beresford and John Patterson. John plans to retire  
at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
Comments from the Chairman
“A key focus during 2012 has been the appointment of a new Chief Executive 
Officer and the search and recruitment of a new Chief Financial Officer.  
Both of these appointments were managed in conjunction with Korn/Ferry 
Whitehead Mann, recruitment consultants who have signed up to the 
voluntary Code of Conduct for executive search firms. Korn/Ferry provided  
a short list of candidates for the Chief Executive Officer role who were 
interviewed by myself and separately by Mike Wareing, John Patterson and 
Marcus Beresford before meeting the current Executive Directors and being 
offered the Chief Executive Officer role. 
The same process was followed for the recruitment later in the year of the 
Chief Financial Officer, except that the new Chief Executive Officer was also 
very involved in the process. Simon Nicholls will take over the role of Chief 
Financial Officer on 1 May 201 3.
Following an extensive review of the Group’s strategic direction, a fresh  
look at talent and succession further down the management chain is 
currently underway.”
J Devaney 
Membership and attendance
Number held 2
Number attended
J Devaney (Chairman) 2
M Beresford 2
J Patterson 2
M Ronald 2
M Hagee 2
M Wareing 2
A Wood 2
Other attendees
Chief Executive Officer
40 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate governance continued
Nomination Committee 2003 2006 2009 2012 2015 2018 2021
J Devaney
M Beresford
J Patterson
M Ronald
M Hagee
M Wareing
A Wood
1st term 2nd term 3rd term
Board succession planning The Committee’s terms of reference, which were reviewed during the year, 
are available on the Company’s website at www.cobhaminvestors.com  
or on application to the Company Secretary. 
The Committee is cognisant of the need for diversity when considering  
the composition of the Board. Measurable targets have been set around:
 Ensuring a proportion of female applicants are included in the candidate 
pool for Non-executive Director positions.
 The next Non-executive Director appointed should have a more diverse 
geographical background and commercial market experience, if possible.
Elsewhere in the business, the objective is to appoint the ‘best person for the 
job’ taking into account not only gender but nationality, age and experience.
The current Board composition, in relation to the Non-executive Directors,  
as of 31 December 2012, is set out in the table below identifying the skills  
and experience of the Board members. 
Directors’ professional development
On appointment, Directors undertake a structured induction programme  
in the course of which they receive information about the operations and 
activities of the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for  
its decision, the Group’s corporate governance practices and procedures  
and their duties, responsibilities and obligations as Directors of a listed public 
limited company. This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings 
with, and presentations by, senior executives.
Training for Directors is available as required and is provided mainly by means 
of external courses, internal computer based training, briefing from specific 
consultants or in-house presentations. In addition, Directors’ knowledge  
of the legal and regulatory environment is updated through the provision  
of information by the Group’s advisers and by means of regular updates  
from the Company Secretary and the legal team. 
Succession planning
Succession planning takes place at Board and senior management level on  
a regular basis to ensure that the Group is managed by executives with the 
necessary skills, experience and knowledge. The Board has a role to play  
in overseeing the development of management resources in the Group. 
Specifically, the Board wants to see depth and quality in management  
and robust processes are in place to help the Board in this task.  
Succession planning for Non-executive Directors is based on maintaining  
a depth of knowledge and experience on the Board. The Nomination 
Committee actively manages Non-executive Director succession having 
regard to anticipated retirement dates for existing Directors and initiates 
focused searches for Non-executive Directors as positions are required. 
The current Board composition in relation to the Non-executive Directors,  
as of 31 December 2012, in terms of length of service and current term is 
shown diagrammatically above.
Independence
Years with 
Cobham Skills Experience
Leadership Strategy
UK 
Corporate
Governance Corporate Engineering Defence Finance US market UK listings HR
John Devaney 2 * * * * * * * *
Bob Murphy 0 * * * * *** *
Warren Tucker 10 * * * * * * * *
Marcus Beresford 9 * ** *** * *
John Patterson 7* * * * * *
Michael Wareing 2* * * * * *
Mark Ronald 6 * * * ** **
Mike Hagee 4* * * *
Alison Wood 1* * * * * * * *
41 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Role and focus
The Audit Committee’s main duties are to: 
 Monitor the integrity of the Group’s financial statements and any formal 
announcements relating to its financial performance, reviewing 
accounting policies used and judgements applied.
 Consider the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control systems.
 Consider the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management procedures.
 Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit 
activities.
 Make recommendations as to the appointment, remuneration and terms  
of engagement of the external auditors.
 Monitor and review the external auditors’ independence and objectivity 
and the effectiveness of the audit process.
 Review arrangements by which the Group’s employees may confidentially 
raise concerns about possible improprieties.
Highlights of 2012
 Reviewed the effectiveness of risk management and internal controls  
with the external auditors and the Head of Internal Audit.
 Reviewed reports from the external auditors and the Head of Internal 
Audit.
 Considered reports on a number of matters including pension scheme, 
treasury and funding plans, taxation, disaster recovery planning and 
corporate governance issues.
 Reviewed internal controls operating within the Group and specifically 
controls in relation to the Excellence in Delivery programme and IT.
 Conducted an effectiveness review of the Committee and the internal  
and external auditors.
 The Group has an anti-bribery, anti-corruption policy and arrangements  
for handling whistle-blowing and the Committee regularly receives and 
considers reports on calls made to the helpline.
 Monitored and contributed to the debate on external audit tendering/
rotation led by the UK Financial Reporting Council (FRC) and the 
European Union (EU). Considered the impact on the Group.
 Reviewed financial reporting controls and significant accounting 
judgements.
Priorities for 2013
 Consider how to adapt procedures to provide advice to the Board  
on whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair,  
balanced and understandable and provides all information necessary  
to a shareholder to assess the Group’s performance, business model  
and strategy.
 Continued oversight of the impact of the economic downturn  
on the financial position of the Group.
 Prepare for the implementation of the final requirements arising  
for the tendering of the external audit.
Comments from the Chairman
“It is the Group’s goal to implement best practice in financial accounting and 
disclosure. This has been a priority of the Committee throughout the year 
and will continue to be so in future. We have taken measures throughout the 
year to ensure that sound policies on internal controls are in place, to ensure 
the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors, and to ensure 
the appropriate risk mitigation framework is in place throughout the Group.” 
M Wareing
Membership and attendance
Number held 3
Number attended
M Wareing (Chairman) 3
M Beresford 3
J Patterson
1
2
M Hagee 3
1
  John Patterson, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, left the Audit Committee on  
1 December 2012 on the introduction of parallel running of Board committee meetings.
Other attendees (by invitation)
 Chief Financial Officer**
 Head of Internal Audit*
 Group Director of Financial Control
 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP*
 Other senior management as required
*     Meetings with the Committee are held in the absence of any executive management 
periodically during the year
** Meetings with the CFO are held with Committee members only
42 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate governance continued
Audit Committee  Risk management and internal controls
The Committee believes that the current arrangements comprising a 
rotational programme of internal financial and other control reviews by  
the internal audit function, other experienced internal teams, external 
experts and business reviews carried out by the Chief Executive Officer  
and Chief Financial Officer and a process of self-assessment of internal 
financial controls by all business units provides appropriate coverage of  
the Group’s activities. Where weaknesses have been identified, plans for 
remedying them are developed and progress monitored. 
The Group operates under a system of internal controls which has been 
developed and refined over time to meet its needs and the risks and 
opportunities to which it is exposed. This includes a strategic planning 
process involving the preparation of a five year plan, a comprehensive 
budgeting system with an annual budget which is approved by the Board,  
the regular revision of financial forecasts for the year, the monitoring of 
financial performance and the appropriate delegation of authorities to 
operational management. Delegations and other operational controls are 
contained in the Corporate Framework and the Group Finance Manual. 
Specifically with regard to the financial reporting process and the  
preparation of the Group financial statements, the system includes  
an annual and semi-annual representation letter from all business units.  
Included in those letters are written acknowledgements that financial 
reporting is based upon reliable data and that the results are properly  
stated in accordance with Group policies. The review and monitoring  
of the effectiveness of the internal controls including, but not limited  
to, financial controls and the Group’s financial and operational risk  
management systems is delegated to the Audit Committee.
Risk management is an integral part of the system of internal control. 
Divisional Presidents are required to ensure that appropriate processes, 
including the maintenance of business unit and divisional risk registers,  
exist to identify and manage risks and to regularly carry out formal risk 
assessments. The executive Risk Committee undertakes a top level review  
of significant risks and the Chief Executive Officer reports regularly to the 
Board on their mitigation. 
The latest principal risks and the risk management process are highlighted  
on pages 14 and 15.
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control, the aim  
of which is to manage risks that are significant to the fulfilment of the Group’s 
business objectives and to contribute to the safeguarding of shareholders’ 
investment and the Group’s assets. The Audit Committee is responsible for 
monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the system. However, such  
a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the risk management procedures annually and 
the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. This process, which has 
been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the 
Annual Report and Accounts, is reviewed in accordance with the Internal 
Control, Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council. 
The Board receives reports on a regular basis from the Audit Committee in 
relation to the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control and 
has, accordingly, reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal 
control in respect of 2012. The review covered all material controls, including 
financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
Financial reporting and significant financial judgements
The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have  
been adopted, whether management has made appropriate estimates  
and judgements and also seeks support from the external auditors  
to assess them.
The Committee reviewed the following main issues below for the year  
ended 31 December 2012:
 The provisions held and settlements made relating to litigation disputes and 
potential significant contract liability and considered the judgements made 
by management. The Committee was satisfied that these were reasonable 
and appropriate, and that the disclosures made were appropriate.
 The accounting for acquisitions made during the year, the carrying value  
of businesses held for sale and certain tax provisions. The Committee was 
satisfied these were reasonable and appropriate.
 The accounting for longer term contracts. The Committee considered  
that the accounting was reasonable and appropriate.
 The Committee considered the carrying value of intangible assets and 
potential impairments and was satisfied that no provisions were required 
and that disclosures were reasonable and appropriate.
External auditors
The Committee and the external auditors have safeguards to avoid the 
possible compromise of the auditors’ objectivity and independence. These 
include the adoption by the Committee of a policy regarding the supply of 
audit and non-audit services and of a policy on the employment of external 
audit staff. Non-audit services, as defined from time to time in the policy,  
can be provided subject to pre-approval by the Committee where the cost  
of any individual engagement exceeds a pre-defined limit. The Committee 
has received reports from the external auditors confirming their 
independence and objectivity.
As noted above, the Committee has monitored and contributed  
to the current FRC and EU proposals and have reviewed and updated  
the Committee’s terms of reference in order to reflect certain of them  
in advance of them becoming mandatory. 
The external auditors follow regulatory requirements, which stipulate  
in relation to the senior engagement auditor, a five year rotation policy.  
The current audit partner was appointed in early 2009. The Committee has 
reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors and has recommended 
that a resolution be proposed at the AGM to re-appoint the external auditors 
and to allow the Board to set their remuneration. The Committee is satisfied 
that the external auditors remain independent.
The nature of services received from and fees paid to the external auditors 
during the year include tax compliance and advisory services and are set out 
in note 2 to the Group financial statements.
43 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Comments from the Chairman
“In a very busy year for the Committee, we have agreed an exit package for 
the outgoing Chief Executive Officer, supplemental compensation for the 
Chairman during the period he acted as Executive Chairman and a package 
for the incoming Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
We also undertook a review of our current remuneration package to simplify 
arrangements, rebalance the performance metrics in line with current 
strategy and to provide clearer line of sight against targets for those 
participants in the incentive plans.
As part of these processes, we informed and consulted our major 
shareholders on several occasions.”
Dr J Patterson 
Membership and attendance
Number held 5
Number attended
J Patterson (Chairman) 5
M Beresford
1
4
J Devaney 5
M Hagee
1
4
M Ronald 5
A Wood
1
1
1
  During the year, the Committee membership was revised to ensure Remuneration and Audit 
Committee meetings could be run concurrently. Accordingly, Messrs Beresford and Hagee 
retired from this Committee as of 1 December 2012. Alison Wood joined the Committee as  
of this date.
Other attendees (by invitation)
 Chief Executive Officer
 Executive Vice President Human Resources
 Vice President Compensation and Benefits
 Deloitte LLP
Note: No individual is present in meetings relating to decisions around his/her own 
remuneration.
Role and focus
The Remuneration Committee’s main duties are to: 
 Make recommendations to the Board on the Group’s policies on 
Executive Directors’ remuneration.
 Determine, on the Board’s behalf, the specific remuneration packages of 
the Chairman, Executive Directors, Group Executive and Company 
Secretary.
Highlights of 2012
 Reviewed all remuneration plans including annual base salary, annual 
incentives, long-term incentives, and pension schemes.
 Agreed the remuneration framework for the new Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Financial Officer. Reviewed and approved remuneration  
for members of the Group Executive and the Company Secretary.
 Reviewed advice from the external adviser on remuneration strategy  
and policy, incentive design and market data relevant to the size and 
activities of the Company.
 Overseen the introduction of the Group’s Excellence in Performance 
programme, an integrated performance development and total 
compensation system, applicable to all employees including the  
Executive Directors. 
Priorities for 2013
 Continued focus on ensuring compensation packages align with Group 
strategy and external expectations.
 Prepare for the implementation of the binding vote on remuneration  
policy and other reporting requirements to be introduced from the next 
reporting period.
44 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ remuneration report
Remuneration Committee  Base salary 38%
Annual Bonus 23%
26%
Bonus Co-investment Plan (BCP)   5%
   8%
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Pension
CEO pay mix, FY2013
This report provides the information required by the Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 (the Regulations). It also describes how the 
Company applies the principles of the Code in relation to 
remuneration. The report has been approved by the Board and 
shareholder approval will be sought at the forthcoming AGM.
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the Company’s website 
or on application to the Company Secretary. 
The Committee received advice during the year from Deloitte LLP on 
remuneration strategy, incentive design and market data. Additional advice 
was received from the Executive Vice President Human Resources and the 
Company Secretary. In addition, Deloitte LLP provided services to the  
Group relating to advice regarding take-on controls, tax and IT audits.  
The Committee is satisfied that any potential conflicts are appropriately  
managed. Deloitte LLP have taken a leading role in developing, and have 
signed up to, the voluntary Code of Conduct in relation to Executive 
Remuneration Consulting in the UK. They were appointed in November  
2009 and their performance is considered by the Committee as part of  
their performance evaluation.
Whilst proposals from the Committee take account of the advice received, 
the ultimate decision is made by the Committee and ratified by the Board  
in the absence of any advisers.
Remuneration policy
The Board’s policy is to recruit, motivate and retain executives of high calibre 
by rewarding them for superior performance with competitive remuneration 
packages. In particular, the executive pay policy for the current and 
subsequent financial years is designed to retain those executives with the 
skills and experience necessary to enable the Group to achieve its objectives 
and satisfy shareholder expectations. 
Paying for performance is the guiding principle of the Excellence in 
Performance programme. Compensation decisions, including salary and 
annual incentives, are linked to the Group’s performance against the Group 
Strategic Plan and separately to the performance of the individual employee.
The philosophy is to deliver actual total compensation comparable to the 
upper quartile of our aerospace and defence peers if sustained upper quartile 
performance is achieved. For solid performance, actual total compensation 
delivered is targeted in line with the market. 
At the end of 2012, a review of the current remuneration package was 
undertaken to simplify arrangements, rebalance the performance metrics  
in line with current strategy and to provide clearer line of sight against targets 
for those participants in the incentive plans. An exercise to consult our major 
shareholders and representative bodies was undertaken following this review 
and received supportive responses.
The primary elements of the 2012 remuneration package focus on 
supporting different objectives, as illustrated in the table on the following 
page, which also shows the opportunity for 2012 and revised 201 3 executive 
remuneration performance measures following the remuneration review.
In defining the Group’s remuneration policy, the Committee takes into 
account best practice guidelines set by institutional investor bodies such  
as the Association of British Insurers. The Chairman of the Company also 
ensures the Company, through the Committee and its Chairman, maintains 
contact with principal shareholders about remuneration matters.
The Company’s short-term incentives are paid, and long-term incentives vest, 
only if stretching performance targets are achieved and the Committee is 
satisfied that executive management has acted in a responsible and diligent 
manner. The Remuneration Committee considers corporate performance  
on governance issues when setting the remuneration targets of Executive 
Directors and the Group Executive. The Remuneration Committee has 
considered whether the incentive structures may raise risks by inadvertently 
motivating irresponsible behaviour and is of the view that this is not the case.
The Remuneration Committee introduced clawback provisions to the 
incentive programmes applicable to the 201 1 annual incentive and long- 
term incentive awards, giving them discretion to reduce awards or require 
repayment of cash paid to a participant in relation to annual and long-term 
incentives within the preceding 12 months for material misstatement of 
financial results, reputational damage to the Group or gross misconduct  
of the individual.
Around half of each Executive Director’s total target remuneration is variable 
and is linked to corporate performance. The chart below illustrates the 
proportions of the Executive Directors’ remuneration packages comprising 
fixed (i.e. salary and pension) and variable elements of pay, assuming target 
annual bonus and expected values of long-term incentives are achieved.
45 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Total compensation statement for Executive Directors
Element Purpose Opportunity
Performance measures  
and vesting schedule
2012 2013
Annual base salary
 Provide competitive fixed 
remuneration reflecting  
the value of the individual, 
their skills, experience  
and performance
Outgoing CEO – £600,000 
(pro-rata)
Incoming CEO – £656,320 
(US$1,040,000)(pro-rata)
CFO – £443,400
Incoming CEO
£676,007 (US$1,071,200)
Incoming CFO – £400,000 
(pro-rata)
 Benchmarked against comparable roles  
in global listed aerospace and defence 
 companies and UK based companies with  
a similar market capitalisation to the Group
 Assessment of the individual responsibilities, 
experience, performance and achievement  
of personal objectives
 Reviewed annually on 1 March
Annual incentive Motivate achievement  
of key annual objectives 
consistent with the Group 
Strategic Plan
Max 100%  
of salary (50% of salary for  
on target performance)
CEO – Max 120%  
(60% for on target 
performance)
CFO – Max 100%  
(50% for on target 
performance)
 For 2012, financial measures consisted of 
underlying Earnings per Share (EPS) growth (70% 
weighting) and cash (30%)
 Personal objectives are set annually and are linked 
to the Group Strategic Plan. They are used as a 
multiplier in the range of 0-150% 
 For 2012, the underlying EPS growth threshold was 
2.5%, the target was 5% and the maximum target 
was 10%. The cash generation threshold/target was 
£225m and the maximum target was £250m
 Personal objectives for the Chief Executive Officer 
are set and assessed by the Chairman, and by the 
Chief Executive Officer for the Chief Financial 
Officer and Group Executive
 For 201 3, this will include a return on capital 
employed measure for the CEO and incoming CFO
 For 2013, the performance measures will  
be based on Operating Profit (70%) and cash (30%)
Long-term incentive – 
Bonus Co-investment 
Plan (BCP)
 Incentivise long-term 
profitable growth and  
sector out-performance
 Reward relative share price 
and dividend growth 
 Provide alignment with 
shareholders’ interests
 Support retention and 
promote share ownership
Outgoing CEO/CFO  
50% of net bonus may 
be invested and matched  
on up to a two for one 
basis subject to EP targets 
being met
For 2013, CEO and 
incoming CFO, 25% of 
bonus earned compulsorily 
deferred for three years 
and up to a further 25% 
voluntarily deferred. Any 
bonus deferred may 
receive up to a one for one 
match subject to EP targets 
being met 
 2009 matching awards vesting in 2012 were subject 
to three year Economic Profit (EP) growth with 
threshold of RPI+ 6% and maximum of RPI+ 15%
 EP targets for the 2010, 201 1 and 2012 matching 
awards vesting in 2013, 2014 and 2015 respectively 
are commercially sensitive and are not disclosed
Long-term incentive – 
Performance Share Plan
(PSP)
 Incentivise long-term 
profitable growth and  
sector out-performance 
 Reward relative share  
price and dividend growth 
 Provide alignment with 
shareholders’ interests
 Support retention and 
promote share ownership 
Normal grants up to 150%  
of salary with vesting split 
equally between TSR  
and EPS
Normal grants up to 150% 
of salary with vesting split 
equally between TSR, EPS 
and cash conversion
 Total Shareholder Return (TSR) measure – relative 
to comparator group of sector peers with 16.7% 
vesting for median performance and full vesting  
for median + 10%
 50% based on three year underlying EPS growth 
with 16.7% vesting for achieving underlying EPS 
growth of +3% per annum and full vesting requiring 
+ 1 1% per annum
 From 2013, 33% based on three year underlying EPS 
growth measured as above, except full vesting is 
at + 10% per annum, 33% TSR relative comparator 
group and 33% subject to three year cash 
conversion with 16.7% vesting at 90% cash 
conversion and full vesting on achieving cash 
conversion of 100%
Pension Provide competitive 
post-retirement 
compensation and benefits 
consistent with the market
Defined benefit 
arrangements
Outgoing CEO and CFO 
–  Defined benefit 
arrangements
Incoming CEO and CFO 
–  Defined contribution 
arrangements equivalent 
to 20% of base  
annual salary
Not applicable
46 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Director’s remuneration report continued Base salary
Bob Murphy was appointed to the position of Chief Executive Officer on  
25 June 2012 on an annual salary of £656,320 (US$1,040,000). His salary was 
positioned at the market median and was reviewed for 201 3 and increased  
to £676,007 (US$1,071,200) with effect from 1 March 201 3. Warren Tucker,  
the Chief Financial Officer, received an annual salary of £443,400 in 2012. 
Simon Nicholls, the incoming Chief Financial Officer, will be appointed on  
a salary of £400,000 with effect from 1 May 201 3.
To ensure that salary and employment benefits across the Group are  
taken into consideration when decisions regarding Executive Directors’ 
remuneration are made, the Committee is briefed on key changes impacting 
employees. The average base salary increase for all staff for the year 
commencing 1 March 201 3 was 3%.
Annual incentive
The Company operates an annual cash incentive scheme for its Executive 
Directors. Annual incentives were awarded by the Committee in respect  
of 2012 having regard to the performance of the Group and personal 
performance objectives for the year. Details of the annual cash incentive 
scheme and the amount achieved against targets for 2012 can be found  
in the table on these pages. 
Long-term incentives
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Cobham Bonus  
Co-Investment Plan (BCP) as well as in the schemes below. Senior  
executives and certain other staff are eligible to participate in the  
following incentive schemes (Executive Directors do not currently  
participate in the ESOS): 
 The Cobham Performance Share Plan (PSP). 
 The Cobham Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) in relation  
to ‘time only’ awards (for US participants) and performance awards  
(for rest of the world participants).
For 2012, the performance measures against which BCP , PSP and ESOS  
awards vest include relative TSR, real underlying EPS growth and real EP 
growth. Together these performance measures help ensure the interests  
of executives are aligned with those of shareholders (through TSR) whilst  
also reinforcing capital efficiency (through EP) and bottom-line growth  
for shareholders (through underlying EPS). 
Bonus Co-investment Plan
The Executive Directors and other members of the Group Executive were 
invited by the Committee to defer up to 50% of their net earned annual bonus 
in 201 1 (paid in Spring 201 2) into Ordinary Shares in return for an opportunity 
to earn a matching award of shares against the gross bonus invested. 
Threshold performance results in invested shares being matched pro-rated  
to target achievement and the two for one match is awarded for maximum 
levels of performance. Matching awards vest after three years subject to 
stretching three year EP growth targets. EP targets are considered to be 
commercially sensitive and therefore are not disclosed at the start  
of the cycle. In the event of a change of control, vesting of BCP matching 
awards is not automatic and would depend on the extent to which the 
performance conditions had been met at the time and the period elapsed 
since the date of grant. 
Amount achieved in 2012
 Outgoing CEO – full annual salary
 Incoming CEO – annual salary pro-rated from date of appointment
 CFO – full annual salary
 Outgoing CEO Award – 45% of base salary 
 Incoming CEO Award – 58% of base salary
 CFO Award – 43% of base salary
 Outcomes were earned as a result of achieving actual Group free cash  
flow of £273m and underlying EPS growth of 3.2%
 The balance of the Executive Directors’ 2012 annual incentive was linked  
to the achievement of personal objectives such as the strategic review  
and the Excellence in Delivery programme
 The BCP award in 2009 vested at 26.7% on 1 June 2012 based  
on the achievement of annualised EP growth of 6.2%
 The PSP award in 2009 vested at 30% on 11 March 2012, based on a TSR 
achievement of index minus 10.6% per annum giving a 0% vest for the TSR 
element and an EPS achievement of RPI+8.7% per annum growth against  
a target of RPI+10% per annum (giving a 59.9% vest for the EPS element)
Not applicable
47 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information From 201 3, only the Executive Directors will participate in the BCP , for details 
of the participation terms refer to the remuneration policy table on page 46, 
under the BCP section.
Performance Share Plan
Under the PSP , approved by shareholders in 2007 , conditional share awards  
or nil-cost options of up to 150% of base salary may be granted annually  
to eligible executives. The individual limit of 150% of salary can be exceeded 
in exceptional circumstances involving the recruitment or retention of  
a senior employee by approval of the Committee. During 2012, awards  
were made to employees in the UK, and certain employees outside the UK. 
For 2012 and prior years, vesting of PSP awards has been based 50% on the 
Company’s three year TSR relative to a comparator group of aerospace and 
defence sector peers and 50% on the Company’s three year real underlying 
EPS growth. For 2012 targets and vesting levels, refer to the remuneration 
policy table on pages 46 and 47 , under the PSP section. Below are the 
companies in the TSR comparator group for awards granted in 2012  
and previous years:
BAE Systems ITT Industries Raytheon
Boeing L -3 Communications Rockwell Collins
EADS Lockheed Martin Rolls-Royce
Flir Systems Meggitt Smiths Group
Goodrich* Northrop Grumman
IMI QinetiQ Group
* Delisted
In order to reflect a comparator group that is more aligned with Cobham 
from an industry and company size perspective, the Company has reviewed 
the comparator group as part of the remuneration review and has 
determined the following comparator group for awards to be granted in 201 3:
BAE Systems L -3 Communications Smiths Group
Esterline Meggitt Teledyne Technologies
Finnmeccanica Northrop Grumman Thales
Flir Systems QinetiQ Group Ultra Electronics
Harris Raytheon
ITT Industries Rockwell Collins
In addition, for the 201 3 awards, a cash conversion measure has been 
included, so that performance is assessed against TSR, EPS and cash 
conversion, with each measure having equal weighting. For 201 3 targets  
and vesting levels, refer to the table on page 46, under the PSP section.
To the extent that the performance targets are not met over the three  
year performance period, awards will lapse, i.e. there is no re-testing  
of the performance conditions. In the event of a change of control, vesting  
of PSP awards is not automatic and would depend on the extent to which  
the performance conditions had been met at the time and the period 
elapsed since the date of grant.
Executive Share Option Scheme
The ESOS was approved by shareholders at the 2004 AGM and amended  
at the 2007 AGM. It includes an ‘Approved’ plan, which has been approved  
by HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC), and an ‘Unapproved’ plan which is  
not designed for HMRC approval. Options to acquire Ordinary Shares may  
be awarded to participants up to a maximum annual value of 200% of  
base salary (300% for overseas-based participants). 
No grants under the ESOS were made to the Executive Directors or  
UK employees during 201 1 or 2012. ESOS awards continue for overseas 
participants on both a ‘time only’ and performance basis. The vesting of 
options granted to overseas-based participants on a ‘time only’ basis is 
conditional only on continued employment and they vest in 25% increments 
on each anniversary of grant over four years. Such phased vesting is in  
line with common US practice.
In the event of a change of control, vesting of ESOS awards is not automatic 
and would depend on the extent to which the Committee determines the 
performance conditions had been met at the time. Any vested awards not 
exercised within one month of the change of control would lapse. 
Changes to the 201 3 awards are identified in the table on the right.
Other share schemes 
The Cobham Savings Related Share Option Scheme (ShareSave) is an  
HMRC approved scheme open to all UK employees. The maximum that  
can be saved each month is £250 and savings plus interest may be used to 
acquire shares by exercising the related option. Options have been granted  
at a 20% discount to market value. The Executive Directors are permitted  
to participate in the scheme and details of their participation are included  
in T able 5 on page 54.
The Company also operates another HMRC approved all-employee share 
scheme, the Cobham Share Incentive Plan. This scheme operates within 
specific tax legislation and enables participants to buy Ordinary Shares out  
of pre-tax income. Executive Directors, whose salary is paid through a UK 
payroll, are permitted to participate in the scheme and details of their 
participation are included in the footnote to T able 4 on page 53.
The incoming Chief Executive Officer does not participate in either of the 
above schemes.
 
Dilution
The Company’s share schemes are funded through shares purchased in  
the market.
Funding of awards through new issue shares is subject to an overall dilution 
limit of 10% of issued share capital in any ten year period. Of this, 5% may be 
used in connection with the Company’s discretionary share schemes. As of 
31 December 2012, 18.6m (1.73%) and 1 1.4m (1.05%) shares have been issued 
pursuant to awards made in the previous ten years in connection with all 
share schemes and discretionary schemes, respectively. Awards that are 
made, but then lapse or are forfeit, are excluded from calculations. 
48 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ remuneration report continued Five year TSR performance – Cobham vs FTSE350 
Value of £100 invested over the five year period ending 31 December 2012
pence
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
31 Dec 
2007
31 Dec 
2008
31 Dec 
2009
31 Dec 
2010
31 Dec 
2011
31 Dec 
2012
FTSE 350 Cobham
Source: Kepler Associates 
Performance graph
The graph below illustrates the TSR performance (share price growth plus 
dividends) of the Company against the FTSE350 Index over the past five 
years. The FTSE350 Index was chosen as it is a recognised broad equity 
market index of which the Company was a member during 2012 and is 
currently, as at 6 March 201 3, ranked at 121st. 
Remuneration 
element Specific element Current approach Change Reason for change
BCP Overall operation Up to 50% of any bonus may be 
deferred and receive up to a two  
for one matching award
 Removed for all except CEO and CFO
 Mandatory deferral of 25% of annual 
incentive for three years (deferral of  
up to an additional 25% is voluntary)
 Matching opportunity reduced to  
one for one match
 Simplify remuneration arrangements
 EP remains as a formal return on  
capital metric
PSP Performance metrics 50% subject to TSR
 50% subject to EPS
 33% subject to EPS
 33% subject to TSR
 33% subject to Cash conversion
 Reviewed TSR comparator group  
to reflect better the split in business 
operations of the Company and 
Cobham’s financial size as  
indicated above
(TSR groupings are shown on page 48)
 Targets linked to areas of strategic 
importance to the business
 Challenges in compiling an appropriate  
TSR comparator group
 EPS remains fundamental to the business
 Cash conversion is considered to be a key 
long-term metric for the business
PSP Performance targets EPS maximum 1 1% EPS growth  
per annum
 EPS maximum 10% EPS growth  
per annum
 To align with shareholder Dividend Policy
ESOS RoW 
(excluding US)
Form of award Awards made in the form of options Removed and awards made under the 
PSP , subject to the same performance 
metrics as the PSP
 Simplify remuneration arrangements
Long-term incentives for 2013
Directors’ pensions 
The former Chief Executive Officer and the current Chief Financial Officer 
participate in the Cobham Executives Pension Plan (the Pension Plan). The 
Pension Plan provides benefits on final salary principles against a normal 
scheme pension age of 60 subject to actuarial reduction for earlier 
retirement. Pension accrues at 1/30th of pensionable earnings, i.e. base  
salary (capped as appropriate), for each year of service and participants 
contribute at a rate of 7%- 15% of pensionable earnings. Contributions to  
the Pension Plan are paid through a salary sacrifice arrangement. The former 
Chief Executive Officer, Andy Stevens, retired from the business on 1 January 
201 3 and a special employers’ contribution of £310,000 was made to the 
Pension Plan on that date in order for a non-reduced pension to  
be paid.
All pensions in payment relating to post-April 1997 rights are increased in line 
with the retail prices index (RPI), subject to a minimum of 3% per annum and 
a maximum of 5% per annum, with the balance of pension being increased 
at 3% per annum. On death in service, a lump sum of four times pensionable 
earnings is payable together with a spouse’s pension of two-thirds of the 
member’s prospective pension. On death after retirement, a spouse’s pension 
is paid at the rate of two-thirds of the member’s pre-commutation pension. 
Similar spouses’ pensions are payable on the death of a deferred pensioner 
prior to retirement. The Pension Plan underwent a buy in (purchase of a bulk 
annuity) during December 201 1. 
The pension benefits of Directors who are members of the Pension Plan  
were restricted by the HMRC earnings cap until 5 April 2006 and thereafter  
by a scheme specific salary cap. Contributions in respect of such members 
were paid into funded unapproved retirement benefit schemes (FURBS)  
until 5 April 2006. No further contributions have been or will be made  
to FURBS after 6 April 2006. Cash payments in lieu of contributions 
 to FURBS made to Directors are set out in notes to T able 2 on page 52. 
The policy in respect of newly appointed Directors, such as the incoming 
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is that payments by the 
Company to a defined contribution top-up arrangement or in the form  
of non-pensionable cash allowances should normally be 20% of annual  
basic salary.
Details of Directors’ pension benefits as required by the Regulations are  
set out in T able 3 on page 53.
Service contracts
The Board’s policy on notice periods for new Executive Directors is that these 
should not normally exceed one year. It recognises, however, that it may be 
necessary in the case of new executive appointments to offer a longer initial 
notice period which would subsequently reduce to one year. Andy Stevens’ 
service contract, which was revised on 6 August 2009 effective from  
1 January 2010, is terminable on one year’s notice by either party. Andy 
Stevens served notice on the Company under his contract which expires  
on 1 January 201 3. Warren Tucker’s service contract dated 1 January 2004 is 
terminable on one year’s notice by, and six months’ notice to, the Company. 
Bob Murphy’s service contract is terminable on twelve months’ notice by 
either party and can be terminated for cause which is defined in his contract. 
Simon Nicholls’ service contract is terminable on twelve months’ notice by 
either party and can be terminated for cause which is defined in his contact.
The Company may elect to terminate Directors’ service contracts by  
making payments in lieu of notice. Such payments are calculated by 
49 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information reference to the base salary otherwise payable during the notice period. 
Payments in respect of annual bonus for the relevant periods may also be 
payable. In the case of Warren Tucker, any payment in lieu of notice shall 
include a sum equal to the value of his annual benefits. The Company 
recognises and endorses the obligation of departing Directors to  
mitigate their own losses.
Personal shareholding
Non-executive Directors are required to acquire, within six months of 
election to the Board, and hold a shareholding of 5,000 Ordinary Shares.
Ownership guidelines require the Executive Directors to maintain Ordinary 
Shares to the value of at least one year’s salary and to retain a minimum of 
50% of net vested PSP and BCP matching shares, and shares equal to 50%  
of the net gains resulting from the exercise of ESOS options until the relevant 
shareholding level is met. The incoming Chief Executive Officer is required 
to maintain Ordinary Shares to the value of two years’ salary. 
The personal shareholding guidelines for the Non-executive Directors  
have been achieved. In relation to the Executive Directors, achievement  
of percentage shareholding as required by the guidelines as at the year end 
was: Bob Murphy 0%, Andy Stevens 158% and Warren Tucker 102% and  
as at 6 March 201 3 were: Bob Murphy 0% and Warren Tucker 107%. 
Non-executive Directors
The Board aims to recruit Non-executive Directors of a high calibre with 
broad commercial, international or other relevant experience. The Non-
executive Directors do not have service contracts. No compensation is 
payable in the event of an appointment being terminated early.
Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the Company’s share 
schemes, pension schemes or bonus arrangements.
Mark Ronald and Mike Hagee receive an allowance of £5,000 per annum in 
respect of the additional travelling time required to ensure their attendance 
at Board meetings.
The Company reimburses reasonable travel and incidental expenditure 
incurred by Directors in attending meetings of the Board.
No additional fees are payable to the Chairman in respect of his membership 
of any of the committees or his chairmanship of the Nomination Committee.
2012 Senior management/Board changes
The Company announced on 18 November 201 1 that Andy Stevens  
was unable to continue as Cobham’s Chief Executive Officer due to the 
recurrence of a long-term serious back injury and had therefore decided  
to take early retirement. Andy Stevens remained on the Board for a period  
of time to assist with the management of the Company until a new Chief 
Executive Officer could be appointed and the Chairman, John Devaney, 
temporarily assumed the position of Executive Chairman while a search  
was conducted for Andy Stevens’ successor.
After an extensive search and selection process, Bob Murphy joined the 
Company on 25 June 2012 and assumed the role of Chief Executive Officer,  
at which point Andy Stevens relinquished his responsibilities as an executive 
director, remaining on the Board in a non-executive capacity, and John 
Devaney reverted to the role of Non-executive Chairman. Andy Stevens 
retired from the Board on 1 August 2012 and remained available to assist  
Bob Murphy in the transition, for the rest of his contractual notice period. 
The exit package for the outgoing Chief Executive Officer was agreed to 
ensure that contractual obligations to Andy Stevens have been fulfilled  
and, within reason, his excellent contribution to the Company over nine  
years service duly recognised.
The Board acknowledged that Andy Stevens could have simply taken  
sick leave but with his decision to resign, taken quickly, and without a 
lengthy absence, removed the requirement for a protracted period  
of uncertainty and enabled prompt action to be taken to commence  
a search for a successor.
 
Accordingly, the Board took the following actions:
1. Accepted Andy Stevens’ resignation and agreed a notice period  
end date of 1 January 201 3. 
2. Granted ‘good leaver’ status on his long-term incentives, using the 
discretion of the Remuneration Committee, in accordance with  
the respective scheme rules, in recognition of his service and the 
circumstances of his departure. On this basis his long-term incentive 
awards will continue to their original vesting date and vest subject  
to performance at that point in time. 
3. Andy Stevens was a member of the Cobham Executives Pension Plan 
(CEPP). This is a final salary 1/30th accrual scheme. In common with 
market practice for schemes of this kind, there is no ill health/disability 
retirement provision contained within the CEPP , and the nature of his 
resignation without any prior period of extended absence, did not allow 
him to qualify for cover under the Group Income Protection Insurance 
scheme. The Board therefore decided to augment Andy’s pension by 
making an exceptional, additional contribution of £310,000 to his fund. 
This will deliver an annual pension of £42,000 available to him with  
effect from his departure in January 201 3. 
The Remuneration Committee agreed to award supplemental compensation 
to the Chairman, John Devaney, for the additional workload undertaken 
during the period in which he acted as Executive Chairman, between 
December 201 1 and June 2012. John Devaney has received an additional 
pre-tax payment of £200,000 in recognition of his contribution during this 
time. This was calculated pro-rata on the difference between the Chief 
Executive Officer base salary and the Chairman remuneration. He has since 
reverted to the role of Non-executive Chairman on the pre-existing terms  
of his engagement.
The Board identified early on in the search process that Andy Stevens’ 
successor would need to be an executive, having experience of both  
defence and non-defence markets, with a successful track record within  
a global organisation which had grown both organically and through merger 
and acquisition activity. Bob Murphy has a track record spanning more than  
25 years working in the civil, commercial and defence sectors of the industry.  
50 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ remuneration report continued Base salary
Annual base US$1,040,000 per annum, reviewable annually.
Employed through a US subsidiary and seconded under a service agreement 
to act as Chief Executive Officer of the Group.
Annual bonus
Target award of 60% of salary, maximum award of 120% of salary.
2012 bonus to be pro-rated for time served and subject to the achievement 
of performance targets as for other participants.
Deferred bonus 
25% of any bonus mandatorily deferred for three years.
A further 25% of bonus received may be voluntarily deferred for three years.
Any bonus deferred may receive up to a one for one match based subject  
to the achievement of EP targets.
The mandatory deferral component is new and was not part of the former 
Chief Executive Officer’s compensation package and the maximum share 
match has been reduced from two for one.
Performance Share Plan
Initial award with a face value of 150% of salary. 
A 2012 grant was made on the date of appointment and is subject to the 
same performance targets as for all other participants based on EPS and TSR.
Buy-out awards
As part of the recruitment of the Chief Executive Officer it was agreed  
to reasonably compensate on an expected value basis for forfeited equity 
from his previous employer as a result of leaving.
He received a £515,000 award over Cobham shares which will vest in three 
equal tranches on 15 April 2013, 15 December 2013 and 15 December 2014, 
subject to continued employment.
He also received a £301,000 share award to compensate him for loss of his 
pro-rated on-target bonus opportunity at his previous employer. This award 
will vest on 15 April 2013. 
Expatriation
US$30,000 gross allowance per annum for tax/financial planning. US$200,000 
annual gross expatriate allowance to take account of differentiation in cost 
of living, housing and home leave.
Relocation
Expenses incurred in moving to the UK reimbursable up to a maximum  
of (60% of salary), repayable within two years if voluntary resignation or 
contract terminated for cause.
Retirement benefits
20% of base to be contributed by the Company into a combination of 
qualified and non-qualified retirement plans sponsored by the Company.
Other benefits
Company car and fuel provision.
Legal fees associated with taking up the post of up to US$50,000  
as a one time payment.
Travel accident insurance.
Medical, dental and vision coverage.
Disability and life insurance.
Share ownership
Required to hold two times salary; this is increased from one times salary that 
was included in the former Chief Executive Officer’s compensation package.
To attract a US candidate of Bob’s calibre it was necessary to configure his 
reward structure appropriately. Accordingly, the Committee agreed the 
following remuneration package and terms:
51 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Auditable part
The auditable part of this Directors’ remuneration report is set out on pages 52 to 55, with the exception of T able 4 which is not subject to audit. 
Table 1: Non-executive Directors’ emoluments
The Executive Directors Committee, the membership of which comprises Executive Directors only, is responsible for recommending the remuneration  
of the Non-executive Directors with the exception of the Chairman, whose remuneration is determined by the Remuneration Committee. There has  
been no increase in fees paid to Non-executive Directors in 2012 and no increase has been proposed for 201 3. The Chairman was awarded supplemental 
compensation for the additional work undertaken as Executive Chairman. See above for further detail. 
The 2012 remuneration, current fees and the details of the terms of appointment of the current and past Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, 
are stated below:
 Full year additional fees* Actual payable
£k Commencement date Expiry date Base fee
Committee 
fee
Senior 
Independent 
Director 2012 2011
J Devaney (Chairman) 1 February 2010 25 April 2013 270 – – 470 270
M Beresford 1 March 2004 25 April 2013 55 5 10 70 70
J Patterson 1 November 2005 31 October 2014 55 12.5 – 68 68
M Ronald 8 January 2007 9 May 2013 55 2.5 – 63 63
P Hooley 12 June 2002 6 May 201 1 55 12.5 – – 24
M Hagee 3 December 2008 2 December 2014 55 5 – 65 65
M Wareing 1 December 2010 30 November 2013 55 10 – 65 66
A Wood 1 July 201 1 1 July 2014 55 2.5 – 55 28
Total Non-executive Director remuneration 856 654
* Members of the Nomination Committee do not receive any additional fees
Note: Difference between full year fee and actuals is explained by individual commencing or retiring during the year or prior year or by the payment of a fee in respect of travelling time for the two  
US Directors. In relation to the Chairman, his additional fee is explained in the penultimate paragraph on page 50.
Table 2: Executive Directors’ emoluments
The 2012 remuneration of the Executive Directors, including the highest paid Director, was as follows:
£k
Executive Directors’ 
base salaries
Fees and 
other payments Bonus
Benefits 
excluding pension
Total 
excluding pension
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
R Murphy 313 – – – 182 – 195 – 690 –
A Stevens
1
600 600 144 144 267 555 28 35 1,039 1,334
W Tucker
2
441 428 106 103 191 396 18 26 756 953
Total Executive 
Director remuneration 1,354 1,028 250 247 640 951 241 61 2,485 2,287
Subject as follows, benefits relate to the provision of company cars and fuel, medical insurance and telephones. A Stevens’ benefits do not include telephones. W Tucker’s benefits include the provision 
of professional advice.
1
  Emoluments for A Stevens for 2012 include – under fees and other payments – the sum of £144,000 (2011: £144,000), in lieu of payments into an approved defined contribution top-up arrangement. 
These payments are not taken into account in calculating bonus and share scheme entitlements. 
2
  Emoluments for W Tucker for 2012 include – under fees and other payments – the sum of £105,516 (2011: £102,816), in lieu of payments to an approved defined contribution top-up arrangement. 
These payments are not taken into account in calculating bonus and share scheme entitlements. W Tucker served as a Non-executive Director of Reckitt Benckiser plc during the year for which the  
fee was £100,000 (2011: £85,000) per annum. He was not required to waive or return this fee to the Company.
Total 2012 remuneration of all Directors was £3,341,000 (201 1: £2,941,000), excluding pension.
52 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ remuneration report continued Table 3: Directors’ pensions
Defined benefit schemes
Accrued pension at 
31. 12. 12
Increase in accrued 
pension from previous 
year end (with no 
adjustment for 
inflation)
Additional pension 
earned in excess of 
inflation during 2012
Transfer value of 
pension accrued in 
excess of inflation and 
members’ 
contributions during 
2012
Transfer value of 
accrued pension at 
31. 12. 1 1
Transfer value of 
accrued pension at 
31. 12. 12
Additional transfer 
value in excess of 
inflation and 
members’ 
contributions during 
2012
£p.a. £p.a. £p.a. £ £ £ £
A Stevens 41,979 5,604 3,712 79,153 893,817 1,128,747 214,270
W Tucker 44,675 5,675 3,647 74,056 812,041 1,025,405 203,723
Members’ contributions taken into account in the above figures are:
Rate Total (£)
A Stevens 15% 20,660
W Tucker 7% 9,641
 
Member contributions are paid through salary sacrifice for Andy Stevens and Warren Tucker. Employer contributions for the year relating to the above 
Executive Directors were £200,265 (201 1: £188, 190).
The inflation figure used for 2012 is 5.2%, being the statutory revaluation rate for deferred pensioners for 201 1–12 for a member not retiring in 2012  
after one year’s service.
Defined contribution schemes
The Company contributes to Bob Murphy’s retirement plan at the rate of 20% of his base salary. This is comprised of participation in two plans:
 a qualified 401(k) plan which has limits on the level of contribution which can be made to it; and
 an executive retirement plan, non-qualifying.
During 2012, Bob Murphy had reached the contribution level in the 401(k) plan by contributions made by his previous employer. Therefore, his pro-rated 
contributions of £62,686 (US$99,333) were paid in full to the executive retirement plan.
£k 2012 2011
R Murphy
Contributions to 401(k) plan – –
Contributions to executive retirement plan 63 –
Total 63 –
Table 4: Directors’ share interests
The interests of the Directors and their families in Ordinary Shares were:
At 1.1.12 At 31.12.12
R Murphy – –
A Stevens Includes BCP shares held in trust with Capita Offshore Trustees of 35,394 393,364 427,684
W Tucker Includes BCP shares held in trust with Capita Offshore Trustees of 14,404 181,821 198,483
M Beresford 15,000 15,000
J Patterson 5,000 5,000
M Ronald 5,000 5,000
M Hagee 5,000 5,000
J Devaney 30,000 30,000
M Wareing 20,000 20,000
A Wood 5,000 5,000
The above interests are all beneficial. Interests in share options and shares provisionally allocated under the PSP , matched element of the BCP and shares  
in the Share Incentive Plan, of which Andy Stevens holds 2,610 shares and Warren Tucker holds 5,418 shares, are not included in T able 4. The PSP and BCP 
matched shares are disclosed in T ables 5 and 6 respectively.
Interests at 6 March 201 3, being a date no more than one month prior to the date of the Notice convening the AGM, were the same as at 31 December 2012.
53 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Table 5: Directors’ share options 
Details of Directors’ interests in options over Ordinary Shares granted under the ShareSave, ESOS and PSP nil cost options were:
Number of options during the year
Option scheme At 01.01.12 Exercised Lapsed At 31.12.12
Exercise price 
– pence
Date from
 which exercisable Expiry date
R Murphy Note: Bob Murphy holds no Sharesave, ESOS or PSP nil cost options
A Stevens ESOS 167,000 – – 167,000 134.7 20.09.07 20.09.14
180,070 – – 180,070 133.7 11.05.08 11.05.15
202,341 – – 202,341 185.3 20.04.09 20.04.16
192,543 – – 192,543 204.5 26.03.10 26.03.17
205,058 – – 205,058 201.5 01.04.11 01.04.18
217 ,603 – 30,901
1
186,702 184.0 11.03.12 11.03.19
313,370 – – 313,370 191.5 31.03.13 12.08.19
293,397 – – 293,397 247.3 10.03.13 10.03.20
Subtotal ESOS 1,771,382 – 30,901 1,740,481
PSP nil cost 242,649 – – 242,649 0 10.03.13 10.03.20
367,346 – – 367,346 0 10.03.14 10.03.21
Subtotal PSP nil cost 609,995 – – 609,995
Sharesave 5,369 – – 5,369 169.0 01.02.13 01.08.13
Total 2,386,746 – 30,901 2,355,845
W Tucker ESOS 155,860 – – 155,860 134.7 20.09.07 20.09.14
180,070 – – 180,070 133.7 11.05.08 11.05.15
186,154 – – 186,154 185.3 20.04.09 20.04.16
178,826 – – 178,826 204.5 26.03.10 26.03.17
190,450 – – 190,450 201.5 01.04.11 01.04.18
205,379 – 29,165
1
176,214 184.0 11.03.12 11.03.19
209,486 – – 209,486 247.3 10.03.13 10.03.20
Subtotal ESOS 1,306,225 – 29,165 1,277,060
PSP nil cost 173,251 – – 173,251 0 10.03.13 10.03.20
262,285 – – 262,285 0 10.03.14 10.03.21
Subtotal PSP nil cost 435,536 – – 435,536
Sharesave 16,610 16,610
2
– – 107 .6 01.02.12 01.08.12
10,287 – – 10,287 148.0 01.02.17 01.08.17
Subtotal Sharesave 26,897 16,610 – 10,287
Total 1,768,658 16,610 29,165 1,722,883
1
  The 2009 ESOS vested 11 March 2012 at 85.8% of target based on a real EPS growth of RPI+8.7% per annum. Targets set were threshold vesting of 25% at RPI+3% and maximum of 100% at RPI+ 10%.  
The market price of the Ordinary Shares on 11 March 2012 was 210.5 pence per share.
2
 Warren Tucker exercised his 2005 Sharesave on 1 February 2012 when the market price of the Ordinary Shares was 186.7 pence per share.
The market price of the Ordinary Shares as at 31 December 2012 was 220.8 pence per share and the closing price range during the year was 1 79.7 pence  
to 239.5 pence.
During the year, no options under the ESOS or the PSP nil cost were exercised by the Directors and accordingly no gains were made by Directors on the 
exercise of these share options.
54 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ remuneration report continued Table 6: Allocations under the Cobham PSP and matched element of the BCP
Option Scheme
Allocation at 
01.01.12 Awarded
Forfeit during 
the year 
Vested 
during year
Allocation at 
31.12.12 Expiry date
1
R Murphy PSP Buy-out award – 126,779 – – 126,779 15.04. 1 3
PSP Buy-out award – 216,915 – – 216,915 15. 12. 14
PSP Conditional share – 451,917 – – 451,917 16.08.15
Total –795,611 – – 795,611
A Stevens PSP Conditional share 241,891 – 169,324 72,567
2
– 11.03. 12
313,370 – – – 313,370 31.03.13
Subtotal PSP 555,261 – 169,324 72,567 313,370
BCP 82,783 – – – 82,783 10.03.13
43,101 – – – 43,101 10.03.14
Subtotal BCP 125,884 – – – 125,884
Total 681,145 – 169,324 72,567 439,254
W Tucker PSP Conditional share 228,302 – 159,812 68,490
2
– 11.03. 12
216,234 – – – 216,234 31.03.13
Subtotal PSP 444,536 – 159,812 68,490 216,234
BCP 207,800 – 152,317 55,483
3
– 01.06.12
58,793 ––– 58,793 10.03.14
Subtotal BCP 266,593 – 152,317 55,483 58,793
Total 71 1, 129 – 312, 129 123,973 275,027
1
  The expiry date is the last date by which qualifying conditions in respect of any outstanding interests under the relevant plan have to be fulfilled. This date may either be the expiry of any relevant 
holding period or (where applicable) of any restricted period.
2
  The 2009 PSP vested on 11 March 2012 at 30% of target. The market price of the Ordinary Shares on 11 March 2012 was 210.5 pence per share. A dividend equivalent payment was made on the  
vested shares at 16.86 pence per Ordinary Share.
3
  The 2009 BCP vested on 1 June 2012 at 26.7% of target. The market price of the Ordinary Shares on 1 June 2012 was 219.6 pence per share. A dividend equivalent payment was made on the vested 
shares at 19.45 pence per Ordinary Share.
Allocations at 6 March 201 3, being a date not more than one month prior to the date of the Notice convening the AGM, were the same as at  
31 December 2012.
By order of the Board
Dr J Patterson 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
6 March 201 3
55 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information The Directors present their report and the audited Group and parent 
company financial statements of Cobham plc for the year ended  
31 December 2012. The Company is registered in England and Wales  
under company number 30470.
Business review
The Chairman’s statement on page 6 of the Annual Report and Accounts 
together with the Chief Executive Officer’s review on pages 7 and 8, the 
Principal risks section on pages 14 and 15, the Business overview on pages 16 
to 23, the Financial review on pages 24 to 29, the Corporate responsibility  
and sustainability section on pages 30 to 33 and the Corporate governance 
section on pages 36 to 43 contain information that fulfils the requirements  
of the statutory business review and are incorporated in this Directors’ report 
by reference. The statutory business review is addressed only to shareholders 
and its purpose is to provide a review of the business and to explain the 
principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Principal activities
Cobham plc, a public limited company listed on the London Stock Exchange, 
offers an innovative range of technologies and services to solve challenging 
problems across commercial, defence and security markets, from deep  
space to the depths of the ocean. It is the parent company of a Group  
whose principal activities in the year related to the protection of lives and  
livelihoods with its differentiated technology and know-how, operating with 
a deep insight to customer needs and agility. The Group has market leading  
positions in air-to-air refuelling; aviation services; audio, video and data 
communications, including satellite communication; defence electronics;  
life support, and mission equipment.
 
For further details on the Group’s principal activities, refer to pages 16 to 23.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 2.40 pence per Ordinary Share of 2.50 pence each  
in the capital of the Company (Ordinary Shares) (201 1: 1.80 pence) was paid  
in November 2012. The Directors are recommending a final dividend of  
6.40 pence per Ordinary Share (201 1: 6.20 pence) payable on 31 May 201 3  
to ordinary shareholders on the register as at 3 May 201 3, making a total 
ordinary dividend for the year of 8.80 pence (201 1: 8.00 pence). 
Details of the total dividend paid is covered in note 6.
Directors’ indemnity arrangements
The Directors have the benefit of a Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance 
policy and the Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity 
arrangements with them, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006. The 
policy was in force at the year end and continues in force at the date of this 
report. The Directors are permitted to take independent legal advice at the 
Company’s expense within set limits in furtherance of their duties.
Directors’ interests
None of the Directors is or was materially interested in any significant 
contract during or at the end of the financial year, particulars of which are 
required to be disclosed by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Details of Directors’ share interests and of their rights to subscribe for shares 
are shown in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 44 to 55.
Corporate governance
The Company’s statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 36  
to 43.
Share capital
Details of the share capital of the Company are given in note 25 to the  
Group financial statements and note 12 to the parent company financial 
statements respectively.
The Directors have been authorised to allot and issue Ordinary Shares.  
These powers are exercised under authority of resolutions passed at the 
Company’s AGM.
At the AGM held on 26 April 2012, the Company was authorised to purchase 
up to 1 15,452,762 Ordinary Shares. This authority will expire at the conclusion 
of the 201 3 AGM. A special resolution will be put to shareholders at the AGM 
to renew the authority to make market purchases of the Company’s shares up 
to a maximum of 10% of the share capital of the Company. 
The rights and obligations attaching to the Ordinary Shares and 6% second 
cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each in the capital of the Company are 
set out in the Articles and note 25.
Subject to applicable statutes, and to the rights conferred on the holders  
of any other shares, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions  
as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide or (if there is no such 
resolution or so far as the resolution does not make specific provision) as  
the Board may decide. Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to attend  
and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more 
proxies and, if they are corporations, corporate representatives and to 
exercise voting rights. Holders of Ordinary Shares may receive a dividend  
and, on a liquidation, may share in the assets of the Company. Holders of 
Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive the Company’s Annual Report and 
Accounts. Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of Ordinary  
Shares may requisition a general meeting of the Company or the proposal 
of a resolution at an AGM.
Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of 
shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote and  
on a poll every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote 
has one vote for every £1 in nominal value of the shares of which he is the 
holder. None of the Ordinary Shares carry any special rights with regard to 
control of the Company.
There are no restrictions on transfers of shares other than:
 Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws  
or regulations.
 Pursuant to the Company’s code for securities transactions including the 
requirement on the Directors and designated employees to obtain approval 
to deal in the Company’s shares.
 Where a person with an interest in the Company’s shares has been served 
with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with 
information concerning interests in those shares.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that 
may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
56 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report Significant arrangements – change of control
Individual operating companies in the Group have contractual arrangements 
with third parties in support of the Group’s business activities which may  
take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company 
following a takeover bid. Such contractual arrangements include supply of 
equipment, goods and services to third parties, including research, design  
and production. Such contracts and arrangements may be deemed to be 
essential to one or more of the operating companies but there are no 
contracts or arrangements considered to be essential to the operation 
of the business of the Group as a whole, apart from the following:
 The Company has entered into a number of credit agreements with banks, 
and has issued senior notes under private placements. The total amount 
owing under such agreements at the year end date is shown in note 18 to 
the Group financial statements. All agreements contain clauses such that,  
in the event of a change of control, the Company can offer to or must 
repay all such borrowings together with accrued interest, fees and other 
sums owing as required by the individual agreements.
 Under the FB Heliservices (FBH) shareholders’ agreement entered into in 
November 2004, change of control of either the Company or its subsidiary 
holding shares in FBH, without the prior written consent of that other FBH 
shareholder, entitles the other FBH shareholder to purchase all of the 
Cobham Group’s shareholding in FBH.
 Under the Sentinel contract, entered into in March 2006, the Company 
must seek approval for any material change in the shareholding of the 
Company. There is an ancillary lease agreement under which a change  
of control may result in the termination of the lease if such event is likely  
to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to perform 
its obligations under the lease.
 Under the FSTA shareholders’ agreement entered into in June 2008, a 
change of control of the Company may result in a required sale of the 
Company’s shares in FSTA to the other shareholders.
Further information relating to change of control appears in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 47 and 48 under the headings Bonus 
Co-investment Plan, Performance Share Plan and Executive Share  
Option Scheme.
Employee share schemes – rights of control
If required to do so by the Company, the trustee of the Cobham Share 
Incentive Plan (the Plan) will, on receipt of notice from the Company of any 
offer, compromise arrangement or scheme which affects shares held in the 
Plan, invite participants to direct the trustee on the exercise of any voting 
rights attaching to the shares held by the trustee on their behalf and/or  
direct how the trustee shall act in relation to those shares. 
The trustee will not vote in respect of any shares held in the Plan in respect  
of which it has received no directions nor will the trustee vote in respect of 
any shares which are unallocated under the Plan. 
The trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust (which as at 31 December 2012, 
hold 1 1,747 ,681 2.50 pence Ordinary Shares to be used for settlement of 
option and share awards under the Company’s long-term incentive schemes 
and all employee share option schemes) waive all rights to vote in respect  
of any shares they hold within the Trust.
Financial instruments
Notes 14, 22 and 24 to the Group financial statements and note 1 1 
to the parent company financial statements contain disclosures relating  
to the use of financial instruments. The Group uses derivative financial 
instruments in its management of financial risks and does not trade in 
financial instruments or use complex financial instruments.
Major interests in shares
As at 31 December 2012, the Company had been notified of the following interests in the Ordinary Shares:
Number of shares 
 at the date of notification 
Percentage  
at date of notification
Massachusetts Financial Services Company 53,890,036 5.02
Sprucegrove Investment Management 54,196,231 5.02
Legal & General Group plc 43,127,190 3.99
Since the year end and up to 6 March 201 3, being a date not more than a month prior to the date of the AGM Notice, the Company had been notified of the 
following interests in the Ordinary Shares in accordance with DTR 5:
Number of shares  
at the date of notification
Percentage  
at date of notification Date of notification
Prudential plc 54,277,614 5.03% 28 February 2013
57 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information People
Cobham takes a strategic approach to talent.
The talent pool within the Group comprises all full and part time employees 
located across five continents, with major population centres in Europe, 
North America and Australia. 
Developing this pool, making sure the Group has the skills, functional 
capabilities and future leaders required to excel in our chosen markets is  
a declared strategy that is being actively pursued throughout the Group. 
Strategic Workforce Planning, the identification of the Group’s current  
and future talent requirements, is a clear part of the strategy development 
process and plans are in place for both attracting the very best talent to the 
Group and retaining and developing our own team. Benchmarked against 
others in our sector it is clear our offer is competitive and our bespoke 
internal talent development programmes show individuals there is real 
potential for excellent career development. 
Each of the seven talent development programmes, described below,  
is tailored to our particular needs and every business within the Group is 
required to encourage employees to step forward and participate via our 
performance and development review process, at the heart of which is the 
Performance and Development Review Process (ePDR), an electronic review 
that is ‘owned’ by the individual employee. 
The Cobham Graduate Development Programme (GDP) and Apprenticeship 
Programme (AP) are well regarded, with the former having Royal Aeronautical 
Society Accreditation in the UK. In 2012, 20 graduates joined the GDP while 
the 2010 intake are now moving into their permanent roles. Engineering 
continues as the largest discipline with 37% of graduates. In the UK  
1 3 apprentices were recruited in 2012 against a backdrop of increased 
Government interest and resurgence in the popularity of apprenticeships.
Further information on talent programmes is contained in the Corporate 
responsibility and sustainability section set out on pages 30 to 33. 
The Group is committed to equal opportunities for all its employees.  
The Group aims to ensure the workplace is free from discrimination. 
Recruitment, selection and career development are based on competence 
and job requirements, irrespective of race, sex, sexual preference, religion  
or disability. The Group continues to monitor and improve its policies and 
practices to reflect the requirements of age discrimination legislation.  
With regard to employees who become disabled, the policy is to take  
all reasonable steps, including retraining, to ensure that they can remain  
in employment wherever practicable.
On the topical issue of gender diversity, the Group gathers figures as part  
of the year end process.
Total 
Employees*
Total 
Managers**
Total  
Female
Total  
Male
%  
Female
% Female 
Managers
9,898 1,264 2,670 7 ,228 27% 15%
*
  Including full and part time employees but excluding temporary staff and contractors.
**
 Defined as senior management and managers.
Work is required for the Company to attain a gender balance competitive 
with general commercial practice; however, the balance is broadly 
comparable to the aerospace and defence sector. 
The Group encourages employee participation and consultation at all levels 
and shares relevant business information. This approach facilitates the 
evolution of new ideas and practices that add value to the business, 
promotes team member commitment and helps focus Company and 
employee expectations. The tools used include in-house newsletters, 
intranet, extranet and regular employee opinion surveys. Company 
Cobham’s Development Programmes
Executive Development Programme (EDP) Programme designed to focus on the continuing development of the Executive tier individually  
and as a collective team.
Senior Development Programme Plus (SDP+) For SDP graduates who have demonstrated the potential to progress within the business,  
SDP+ verifies the potential of these individuals for Executive succession.
Senior Development Programme (SDP) For high performing individuals who have demonstrated the potential for further  
progression, the SDP builds on their leadership competence to optimise their current  
and future performance.
Cobham High Potential Programme (CHP) Ensures the leadership and functional pipeline in Cobham is full by providing a consistent means  
of assessing and developing talent through a number of interventions including partnership with 
respected business schools.
Graduate Development Programme (GDP) A two to three year rotational programme that develops Cobham’s next generation of innovators, 
pioneers and entrepreneurs.
Apprenticeship Programme (AP) Primarily engineering, covering UK locations, the award winning programme ensures we have  
the technical skills we need.
Mission Critical Workforce (MCW) Designed to understand and grow the Group’s functional capability, it comprises competency 
frameworks built on the Group’s strategic direction. Development of this programme and the 
approach continues.
58 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ report announcements, team meetings and suggestion schemes all play a part 
in this process. UK employees are given the opportunity to become 
shareholders in the Company through the Cobham Savings Related Share 
Option Scheme and the Cobham Share Incentive Plan. Under the former, 
employees can acquire shares through the exercise of options granted at  
a 20% discount to market value with savings made over three or five years. 
Under the latter, shares may be purchased out of pre-tax income.
The Group sets high standards of performance for employees, and in return, 
employees expect to be appropriately recognised and rewarded for their 
contribution. This mutual gain makes the Excellence in Performance 
programme a process that is fundamental to our continued growth and 
success. A major component of this system is the ePDR, described above,  
and Cobham’s Centre for Learning & Development. An outcome of this 
integrated process is to create an atmosphere where employees understand 
that there is a direct link between learning, performance and compensation. 
 
Corporate responsibility and sustainability
Information in relation to the Group’s commitment to Corporate 
responsibility and sustainability (including additional information in  
relation to employment matters) is set out on pages 30 to 33.
Research and development
The Group continues to invest in the important area of research and 
development. During the year the Group expended £75.4m (201 1: 75.3m)  
on non-customer funded research and development. The management of 
each Group business is responsible for identifying and carrying out suitable 
research and development programmes having regard to particular market 
and product needs. 
Further information on research and development appears on pages 4, 7  
and 25.
Creditors payment policy
It is the policy of the Company that all invoices are paid within 30 days 
following the end of the month in which the invoices are approved. The  
total amount of the Company’s trade creditors falling due within one year at 
31 December 2012 represents 29 days’ (201 1: 16 days’) worth as a proportion 
of the total amount invoiced by suppliers during the year ended on that date. 
Events after the balance sheet date
There are no significant post balance sheet events to report.
Political and charitable gifts
Donations by Group companies during the year for charitable purposes were 
as follows:
£2012 2011
UK charities
Armed services 23,000 30,000 
Disaster relief 12,000 1,000
Business enterprise 3,000 8,000 
Local interest 4,000 3,000 
Other 5,000 5,000 
Total UK charities 47,000 47,000 
Non UK charities 108,000 126,000 
Total 155,000 173,000 
No contributions were made to political organisations.
Land and buildings
Details of the carrying amount and market values of the Group’s investment 
properties are as disclosed in note 1 1 to the Group financial statements.
Independent auditors 
The independent auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , have indicated their 
willingness to continue in office and a resolution to re-appoint them will be 
proposed at the AGM.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s AGM will be held at 12 noon on Thursday, 25 April 201 3 at  
the offices of UBS Investment Bank, 1 Finsbury Avenue, London EC2M 2PP .
The Company arranges for the Notice of AGM and related papers to be sent 
to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
By order of the Board
L Colloff
Company Secretary
6 March 201 3
59 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ 
remuneration report and the Group financial statements in accordance with 
applicable laws and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each 
financial year. Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union, and the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards) and applicable 
law. Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of  
the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss  
of the Group and the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
 Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent;
 State whether IFRS as adopted by the European Union (EU), and applicable 
UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company 
financial statements respectively; and
 Prepare the Group and parent company financial statements on the going 
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that 
are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial 
statements and the Directors’ remuneration report comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements,  
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding  
the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Group’s website (www.cobham.com). Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Directors’ responsibility statement
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 34  
and 35, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
 The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance 
with the IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
 The Business overview includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group, together  
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Directors’ declaration in relation to relevant audit information
In the case of each Director in office at the date the Directors’ report is 
approved, that:
(a) So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information  
of which the Group’s auditors were unaware; and
(b) He/she has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a 
Director in order to make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Group’s auditors are aware of  
that information.
The responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors  
on 6 March 201 3 and signed on its behalf by:
R Murphy
Chief Executive Officer
W Tucker
Chief Financial Officer
 
60 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities We have audited the Group financial statements of Cobham plc for the  
year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the accounting policies,  
the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated 
statement of changes in equity, the consolidated cash flow statement and 
the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied  
in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities set out 
on page 60, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards  
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with  
the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the 
Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of 
the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving 
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to 
any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures  
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of 
significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial 
and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider 
the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the Group financial statements: 
 Give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at  
31 December 2012 and of its profit and cash flows for the year 
then ended; 
 Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted  
by the European Union; and 
 Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion:
 The information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year for 
which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with  
the Group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion: 
 Certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are  
not made; or 
 We have not received all the information and explanations we require  
for our audit; or
 A corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the 
parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
 The Statement of Directors’ responsibilities, set out on page 60 in relation  
to going concern;
 The part of the Corporate governance section relating to the Company’s 
compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
specified for our review; and
 Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on  
Directors’ remuneration.
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of 
Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 and on the information in 
the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited. 
Stuart Watson (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
6 March 201 3
61 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Cobham plc In establishing the fair value for intangible assets recognised on acquisition 
and their estimated useful lives, the Group takes account of the individual 
circumstances of the entity acquired. Factors considered include trading 
data, the value and duration of contracts acquired and the strength, 
duration and degree of exclusivity of relationships with customers. Valuation 
estimates are also used, including the estimation of likely external royalty 
rates that could be associated with technology and branding assets and 
attributable future cash flows. 
Impairment of goodwill
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least once a year.  
This requires estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units 
(CGUs) to which the goodwill is allocated. Estimating the value in use 
requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows 
from the CGUs and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to 
calculate the present value of those cash flows. Further details are given  
in note 9.
Taxation
The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant 
judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for tax.  
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax 
determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. The 
Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on 
estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax 
outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially 
recorded, such differences will impact the current tax provision, deferred tax 
provisions and income statement in the period in which such determination 
is made.
Retirement benefits
The Group financial statements include costs and liabilities in relation  
to retirement benefit obligations. A number of assumptions are made in 
assessing the costs and present value of the pension assets and liabilities 
which include the long-term rate of increase of salary costs, discount rate, 
inflation, the expected return on plan assets and mortality rates. The Group 
uses published indices and independent actuarial advice to select the values 
of critical assumptions, which are disclosed in note 23. 
Provisions 
The consolidated financial statements include appropriate provisions  
for the estimated outcome of commercial disputes. No such provision is 
included for contingent liabilities. The Directors take account of the advice 
of experts in quantifying the expected costs of future adverse judgements. 
Due to the inherent uncertainty associated with such claims and legal 
proceedings, the timing and amount of the actual claims could differ  
from the amount provided.
Principal accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied,  
are as set out below. 
Underlying measures
In addition to the information required by IFRS and to assist with the 
understanding of earnings trends, the Group has included within its 
published financial statements non-GAAP measures including trading  
profit and underlying earnings results.
General information
These financial statements are the consolidated financial statements of 
Cobham plc (the Company), a public company limited by shares, registered 
and domiciled in the United Kingdom and its subsidiaries (the Group). The 
address of the registered office is Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, England 
BH21 2BJ.
Basis of preparation
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the 
EU, International Financial Reporting Interpretation Council (IFRIC) 
interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable  
to companies reporting under IFRS. 
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern  
basis under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation  
of derivative financial instruments which are held at fair value.
The following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations  
have been adopted with effect from 1 January 2012. No changes to 
previously published accounting policies or other adjustments were  
required on their adoption. 
 Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Transfers  
of Assets.
 Amendments to IFRS 1 First time adoption of IFRS: Severe Hyperinflation 
and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-Time Adopters. 
Management judgement and estimation uncertainty
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the 
use of estimates and judgements that affect the application of accounting 
policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
These estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based  
on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future 
events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The 
current economic conditions have been considered when evaluating 
accounting estimates and judgements, including the application of the 
going concern basis of preparation. Although estimates are based on 
management’s best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual 
results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of 
estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant  
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets  
and liabilities in the next financial year, are as follows:
Intangible assets recognised on acquisition
On completion of a business combination, the cost is allocated by 
recognising the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
acquired at fair value. Intangible assets are recognised where they are 
separable or arise from contractual or legal rights, and have a fair value 
that can be measured reliably. For the Group these intangible assets usually 
comprise contractual arrangements, customer relationships and technology 
based assets, but can also include acquired patents, software rights and 
licences and development costs.
62 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Accounting policies Foreign currencies
The presentation currency of the Group is sterling. Most Group companies, 
including the parent company, use their local currency as their functional 
currency. Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency 
are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies  
are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date and 
any exchange differences arising are taken to the income statement. 
For consolidation purposes the assets and liabilities of foreign operations  
are translated at the closing exchange rates. Income statements of such 
undertakings are consolidated at the average rates of exchange as an 
approximation for actual rates during the year. Exchange differences arising 
on these translations are accounted for in other comprehensive income 
(OCI) and the translation reserve.
Business combinations
Businesses acquired are accounted for using the acquisition method  
of accounting with effect from the date control passes. The cost of an 
acquisition is measured as the fair value of the consideration transferred. 
This is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and  
the equity interests issued by the Group. Where a business combination  
is completed in stages, any previously held interests are re-measured to  
fair value at the date at which control is achieved. Any resulting gain or  
loss is recognised in the income statement. Acquisition related costs  
are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and 
contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured 
initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the 
consideration transferred over the fair value of the Group’s share of  
the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Contingent consideration (not in the form of equity instruments) is 
accounted for as a financial liability and adjustments are accounted for  
as gains or losses recognised through profit or loss and excluded from 
trading profit and underlying earnings. 
Operating segments
The chief operating decision making body for the Group has been identified 
as the Board. It reviews the Group’s internal reporting in order to assess 
performance and allocate resources. The internal reporting structure forms 
the basis of the Group’s segmental reporting and the segments are disclosed 
in note 1. All operating segments meet the definition of reportable 
segments. Details of the composition and purpose of the Board can be 
found on pages 37 and 38.
The Board assesses the performance of operating segments based on 
revenue, trading profit as defined above and operating cash generation. 
Finance income, finance costs and taxation are not segmented and  
are reviewed by the Board on a Group basis. 
The Board does not review any information on segment assets and liabilities. 
Segment assets as disclosed in note 1 have been defined to include 
intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment properties, 
inventory and trade and other receivables. They do not include tax 
receivables, cash and bank balances and derivative financial assets. 
Trading profit has been defined as operating profit from continuing 
operations excluding the impacts of certain M&A related costs and  
business restructuring costs as detailed below. Also excluded are changes
in the marking to market of non-hedge accounted derivative financial  
instruments, impairments of intangible assets, and items deemed by the 
Directors to be of an exceptional nature such as the settlement of a 
long-standing commercial dispute. Underlying earnings are defined as 
trading profit less net underlying finance costs, which excludes the 
unwinding of acquisition related discounting, and after deducting 
taxation and non-controlling interests. 
M&A related costs excluded from trading profit and underlying earnings 
include the amortisation of intangible assets recognised on acquisition  
and the writing off of the pre-acquisition profit element of inventory 
written up on acquisition. M&A related costs also include other direct  
costs associated with business combinations, adjustments to contingent 
consideration related to previously acquired businesses and direct costs 
from terminated divestments.
Business restructuring costs comprise exceptional items associated with 
the restructuring of the Group’s portfolio. It also includes the costs of 
re-engineering operations as part of Excellence in Delivery including 
the costs of integrating sites into principal locations and the additional 
streamlining under the two year extension of the EiD programme to the 
end of 2015.
All underlying measures include the revenue and operational results of  
all operations including those being sold until the point of sale. 
Net debt is defined as the net of cash and cash equivalents less 
borrowings at the balance sheet date.
Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements include the financial statements of the 
parent company, Cobham plc, and of all its subsidiaries made up to  
the end of the financial period. 
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Company has control, which 
is defined as the power to govern the financial and operating policies of 
an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. Subsidiaries are fully 
consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Company 
until the date that control ceases. On derecognition, any amounts previously 
recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are 
accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets 
or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
Joint ventures are entities where control is shared with one or more third 
parties. Associates are entities where the Group has significant influence but 
do not meet the definition of a subsidiary or joint venture. Joint ventures 
and associates are not consolidated but are accounted for using the equity 
method. The Group financial statements include the Group’s share of the 
post acquisition change in net assets and the post-tax profit or loss of jointly 
controlled entities and associates from the date that joint control or 
significant influence commences until the date this ceases. 
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated 
on consolidation. 
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
63 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Group accounting policies are applied consistently across all segments 
and activities. Trading between segments is contracted and priced at arm’s 
length commercial terms. 
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the right to consideration, net  
of returns, rebates and other similar allowances.
Revenue from the sale of goods not under a long term contract is 
recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership and 
effective control of the goods have been passed to the customer, recovery 
of the consideration is probable, and the amount of revenue and costs can 
be measured reliably. In the case of contracts with a long duration, including 
contracts with a funded development phase, revenue is recognised based 
upon the fair value of work performed to date assessed with reference to 
completed contract milestones which have been accepted by the customer. 
Long term contract accounting as described in IAS 1 1 Construction 
Contracts is not generally applicable to the longer term contracts for  
sales of goods entered into by Group companies. Where long term  
contract accounting is applicable, revenue is recognised on a percentage  
of completion basis whereby a portion of the contract revenue is recognised 
based on contract costs incurred to date compared with total estimated 
costs at completion. 
 
Revenue for services is recognised as the services are rendered with 
reference to the proportion of the service delivered to date. For ‘cost-plus’ 
contracts (typically with government departments and agencies), revenue  
is recognised to the extent of reimbursable costs incurred, plus a 
proportionate amount of the estimated fee earned. For contracts where 
revenue is determined on a unit activity basis, revenue is recognised on  
the basis of activity undertaken in the period.
Revenue excludes inter-company sales, value added tax and other  
sales taxes. 
Taxation including deferred taxation
The tax expense relates to the sum of current tax and deferred tax. 
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, which differs from  
profit before taxation as reported in the income statement. Taxable profit 
excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in 
other years and also excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.  
The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method  
in respect of temporary differences arising between the tax bases of  
assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated  
financial statements. 
Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates and laws that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and that are 
expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability  
is settled. Tax is charged or credited to the income statement except when 
it relates to items recognised in OCI or directly in equity, in which case the 
deferred tax is also dealt with in OCI or in equity respectively. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary 
differences can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets  
is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it  
is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to  
allow all or part of the assets to be recovered. 
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments  
in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to 
offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred 
taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
Dividends
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are  
fully authorised. 
Intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s 
interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a business 
at the date of acquisition. Goodwill acquired is allocated at acquisition to the 
CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination. CGUs 
represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is 
monitored for internal management purposes. 
Goodwill arising on business combinations is capitalised and reviewed for 
impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately  
in the income statement and cannot be subsequently reversed.
On divestment of a business the attributable amount of goodwill is included 
in the determination of the profit or loss on divestment. This includes any 
exchange differences reclassified to the income statement from the 
translation reserve.
Research and development
Research expenditure not chargeable to customers is written off as incurred. 
Development costs not chargeable to customers are written off as incurred 
until it can be demonstrated that the conditions for capitalisation as 
described in IAS 38 Intangible Assets are met. At that point further costs are 
capitalised as an intangible asset until the intangible asset is readily available 
for use and it is then amortised on a straight-line basis over the asset’s 
estimated useful life. 
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets other than goodwill which are acquired by the Group  
are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
These include customer relationships, technology and software, trademarks, 
licences and patents. The only internally generated intangible assets are 
development costs which are capitalised as described above and internally 
developed software where asset recognition criteria are met. Internally 
developed software is included within other intangible assets.
64 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Accounting policies continued Impairment losses
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets are reviewed at 
least annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. 
In addition, intangible assets with an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, 
are tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that 
the asset may be impaired.
Where there is an indication of impairment, the asset’s recoverable amount 
is estimated. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs  
to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have 
not been adjusted.
An impairment loss is recognised where the recoverable amount of an asset 
is lower than its carrying amount. All impairment losses are recognised in the 
income statement. 
An impairment loss (other than arising on goodwill) is reversed only after  
a change in the estimates used to assess recoverable amount and only to 
the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or 
amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. Any reversal  
is recognised in the income statement.
Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease 
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.  
All other leases are classified as operating leases. 
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group  
at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease 
payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding 
liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease 
obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and 
reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest 
on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged 
directly to the income statement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are  
also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost 
comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and 
those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their 
present location and condition. Cost is calculated using the first-in, first-out 
method. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all 
estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling 
and distribution. Provision is made where necessary for obsolete, slow 
moving and defective items.
All other intangible assets are amortised over the asset’s estimated useful life 
on a straight-line basis as follows:
Customer relationships 2 to 15 years
Technology based assets 2 to 10 years
Development costs 2 to 10 years
Other intangible assets 6 months to 10 years
Useful lives are assessed for each asset on an individual basis taking into 
account the specific characteristics of the asset. 
Property, plant and equipment
Freehold land is not depreciated, but is reviewed for impairment at  
least annually. Freehold and leasehold buildings, plant and machinery,  
and fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment are held at historic cost less 
accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment losses. Cost 
comprises the purchase price and any costs directly attributable to the asset.
All property, plant and equipment other than land is depreciated on a 
straight-line basis to the estimated residual values over the estimated  
useful lives. These lives are as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years
Leasehold properties The period of the lease
Plant and machinery 3 to 15 years
Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 3 to 15 years
  
Estimated residual values and the estimated useful lives are reviewed 
annually and adjusted where necessary. 
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful 
lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the 
relevant lease. 
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is 
determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement. 
Assets under construction are held at cost and transferred to the 
appropriate category of property, plant and equipment once construction 
is complete and they enter into service. They are depreciated from this 
point in accordance with the policies described above.
Aircraft overhaul expenditure
Major overhaul expenditure on owned aircraft is capitalised when incurred 
and the resultant property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its 
useful economic life. Major overhaul costs that are contractually required  
on aircraft held under operating leases are provided for over the period 
between the scheduled maintenance events. 
Investment properties
Investment properties, which are properties held to earn rentals or for 
capital appreciation, are stated at cost in the balance sheet. They are 
depreciated on a straight-line basis to their estimated residual value  
over their estimated useful lives of up to 50 years.
 
Rental income is recognised as revenue on a straight-line basis.
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
65 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The fair value of financial liabilities held at cost (not at fair value through 
profit or loss) is adjusted for transaction costs that are directly attributable 
to the acquisition or issue of the liability. Financial liabilities at fair value 
through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value; financial liabilities 
not at fair value through profit or loss are stated at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method. 
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are stated at their amortised cost, reduced by 
appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. Allowances for 
irrecoverable amounts are made when there is evidence that the Group may 
not be able to collect the amount due. All trade receivables which are more 
than six months overdue are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable 
amounts determined by reference to past default experience. Amounts 
which are less than six months overdue are provided where recovery of the 
balance due is considered to be doubtful. The impairment recorded is the 
difference between the carrying value of the receivables and the present 
value of the estimated future cash flows. Any impairment required is 
recorded in the income statement in administrative expenses. The balance 
may be written off in full generally where receivables are in excess of 12 
months old. At that time any amounts previously provided for impairment 
are released. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and bank deposits  
with an original maturity of three months or less. Bank overdrafts that 
are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash 
management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents  
for the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement. 
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the amount  
of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Borrowing costs, net of 
amounts capitalised, including premiums payable on settlement or 
redemption and direct issue costs, are charged to the income statement and 
are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they 
are not settled in the period in which they arise. Borrowing costs that are 
directly attributable to relevant property, plant and equipment are 
capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
Trade payables
Trade payables do not carry any interest and are stated at their  
nominal value.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
As explained in note 24, the Group’s activities expose it primarily to the 
financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. 
The Group uses foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swap contracts 
to reduce these exposures and does not use derivative financial instruments 
for speculative purposes. Other derivative financial instruments may be used 
from time to time to hedge other exposures such as inflation risks. 
The Group has documented its risk management objectives and strategy  
for undertaking various hedge transactions, and utilises hedge accounting 
principles in relation to interest rate swaps. These are designated as cash 
flow hedges which mitigate the Group’s exposure to changes in interest 
rates arising on floating rate debt. From time to time, the Group may also 
use interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to changes in the fair value 
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are  
stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.  
No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified  
as held for sale. 
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their 
carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than 
through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the  
sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within a year of the 
balance sheet date. The asset or disposal group should be available for 
immediate sale in its present condition and actively marketed at a price  
that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value. 
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance 
sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the 
instrument. Financial assets are recognised at trade date. When initially 
recognised, financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value.
Financial assets 
The classification of financial assets depends on the purpose for which the 
assets were acquired. Management determines the classification of an asset 
at initial recognition and re-evaluates the designation at each reporting date.
Financial assets are categorised and subsequently valued as follows: 
 Assets held at fair value through profit or loss are those categorised as held 
for trading under IAS 39 and are classified as current assets or non-current 
assets dependent upon maturity. Such financial assets are subsequently 
carried at fair value.
 Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or 
determinable payments which are not quoted in an active market. These 
are classified as current or non-current assets dependent upon maturity  
and included within trade and other receivables. Loans and receivables  
also includes cash and cash equivalents. The fair value of these financial 
assets is adjusted for transaction costs that are directly attributable to  
the acquisition or issue of the asset. Subsequent to initial recognition,  
loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
None of the Group’s material financial assets fall into the held to maturity  
or available for sale categories which are defined as follows: 
 Held to maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with  
fixed maturity dates which the Group intends to hold to maturity.
 Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets 
either designated by management as available for sale or not falling into  
any of the above categories. 
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are categorised on initial recognition as held for trading 
under IAS 39 and are held at fair value through profit or loss, or other 
liabilities, which are held at amortised cost. All financial liabilities are  
classified as current or non-current liabilities dependent upon the  
maturity date of the instruments. 
Derivative financial instruments are categorised as held for trading  
unless they are designated as hedges. 
66 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Accounting policies continued Provisions
A provision is required when the Group has a present legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that settlement will 
be required at an amount that can be reliably estimated.
Provisions for warranty costs are recognised at the date of sale of the 
relevant products, at management’s best estimates of the expenditure 
required to settle the Group’s liabilities, based on past experience and 
industry averages for defective products. 
Contract loss provisions are recognised for onerous contracts when the 
expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower 
than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract. 
Aircraft maintenance provisions are established in respect of significant 
periodic maintenance costs, where maintenance activity is required on 
leased operational aircraft or engines on a cycle greater than 12 months. 
Costs are charged to the income statement on the basis of utilisation of the 
aircraft and are credited to the provision. The provision is then utilised by 
absorbing the actual costs incurred in carrying out the maintenance activity. 
Maintenance carried out on a cycle of 12 months or less is charged to the 
income statement as incurred.
Provisions also arise in connection with leased aircraft, where contracts 
contain specific conditions regarding the configuration of the aircraft  
on its return to the lessor at the end of the lease. The estimated cost  
associated with fulfilling these requirements is charged to the income 
statement on an aircraft utilisation basis. The provision is utilised on actual 
return of the aircraft or on incurring the expenditure required to return the 
aircraft to the state of maintenance required by the lease before return of 
the aircraft to the lessor.
Provisions for claims made against the Group and commitments made under 
performance guarantees are recognised at management’s best estimates of 
the expenditure required to settle the Group’s liabilities. 
Provisions are discounted at an appropriate risk-free rate when the impact  
is material.
Pensions
The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined  
contribution schemes. 
For defined benefit schemes the amounts charged to operating profit are 
the current service costs. Gains and losses on settlements and curtailments 
arising on a business divestment are included in profit on divestment. Past 
service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement if the 
benefits have vested. If the benefits have not vested, the costs are 
recognised over the period until vesting occurs. The expected return on 
assets and interest cost are shown within finance income and finance costs. 
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in OCI.
Defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the scheme held 
separately from those of the Group, in separate trustee administered funds. 
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured 
on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted at a 
rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond 
of equivalent currency and term to the scheme liabilities. The actuarial 
of fixed rate borrowings; however, there are no such contracts outstanding 
at the present time. 
Foreign exchange contracts entered into to mitigate foreign exchange 
impacts of trading in non-functional currencies, and inflation swaps entered 
into to mitigate inflation risks, are not accounted for using hedge accounting. 
Foreign currency borrowings are used to hedge the effects of changes in 
the Group’s net investment in foreign operations. These borrowings either 
provide a natural economic hedge through the use of intercompany debt or 
are designated as fair value hedges of the foreign currency risk attributable 
to the foreign equity investment and are treated as net investment hedges. 
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the 
date the contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their 
fair value. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on 
whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the 
nature of the item being hedged.
Where hedge accounting is applied, the relationship between hedging 
instruments and hedged items is documented at the inception of the 
transaction. The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge 
inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives used in 
hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash  
flows (or fair values if appropriate) of hedged items. 
Where interest rate swaps are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, 
the effective portion of changes in fair value is recognised in OCI through 
the hedging reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is 
recognised immediately in the income statement. Amounts accumulated  
in equity are reclassified to finance income and finance costs in the income 
statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
When a cash flow hedging derivative expires or is sold, or when a hedge no 
longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss 
existing in the hedging reserve in equity at that time remains in equity and  
is recognised in the income statement when the forecast transaction is 
ultimately recognised in the income statement. If a hedged transaction is 
no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in 
the hedging reserve in equity is immediately transferred to the income 
statement in that period.
Where net investment hedging applies, the exchange differences arising  
on the borrowings designated as fair value hedges are recognised in OCI  
and through profit and loss on disposal of the foreign operation. 
The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a current asset or  
liability except when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more 
than 12 months. 
Where hedge accounting is not applied, the movements in fair value of  
the derivative instruments are included in the income statement as part  
of operating profit. The fair value of such derivatives is classified as a  
current or non-current asset or liability dependent upon the expected 
realisation of the assets or settlement of the liabilities. 
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
67 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance 
sheet date. The resulting net defined benefit asset or liability is presented 
separately on the face of the balance sheet.
For defined contribution schemes the amounts charged to the income 
statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits 
are the contributions payable in the year. Differences between contributions 
payable in the year and contributions actually paid are recorded as either 
accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Share capital
Ordinary share capital is classified as equity. Financial liabilities and equity 
instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual 
arrangements entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that 
evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting  
all of its liabilities. 
Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on  
a specific date or at the option of the preference shareholders or if  
dividend payments are not discretionary. Dividends on preference share 
capital classified as liabilities are recognised in the income statement as 
finance costs.
Treasury shares
When ordinary share capital recognised as equity is acquired by the 
Company, the shares are held as treasury shares. The consideration paid, 
including commissions and taxes, is deducted from retained earnings and 
total equity. The proceeds of any treasury shares subsequently sold or 
re-issued, net of commission and taxes, are recognised as an increase in 
retained earnings and total equity.
Share-based payments
For grants made under the Group’s equity settled share-based payment 
schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value of options awarded as at  
the time of grant are charged to the income statement over the relevant 
vesting periods.
The valuation methodology for all schemes is based on the Black-Scholes 
model, modified where required to allow for the impact of market related 
performance criteria and taking into account all non-vesting conditions.
 
Accounting standards not yet effective
A number of new standards, amendments to existing standards and 
interpretations have been published that are mandatory for future 
accounting periods, subject to EU endorsement. From 1 January 2013  
these are as follows:
 IFRS 1 3 Fair Value Measurement 
 Amendment to IAS 12 Deferred tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets 
 Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits 
 Amendment to IAS 1 Financial Statement Presentation 
 Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures – offsetting 
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 
 Amendment to IFRS 1 First time adoption – Government loans 
 Annual Improvements 201 1 
 IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase on a Surface Mine 
 IAS 27 (revised 201 1) Separate financial statements
 IAS 28 (revised 201 1) Associates and joint ventures
 Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 – Investment Entities
None of these have been adopted early by the Group. 
The implementation of IFRS 13 will require some amendments to 
disclosures on financial instruments but is not anticipated to affect the fair 
value measurements used. The amendment to IAS 19 will change the basis 
of calculating the expected return on assets held in pension schemes from  
a market yield basis to a government bond yield basis. Administrative costs 
and finance costs in the income statement will increase by approximately 
£1m each and the comparative results will be re-presented in the financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2013. The amendment to IAS 1 
will impact the presentation of items within OCI, grouping items on the basis 
of whether they can, or cannot, be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss. 
None of the other amendments or interpretations are expected to have an 
impact on the Group’s financial reporting.
There are also a number of new standards and amendments to existing 
standards which, once endorsed by the EU, will be effective from 1 January 
2014 and 2015. These include IFRS 9, 10, 1 1 and 12. Management continue 
to assess the impact of these changes on the future reporting of the  
Group’s operations. 
68 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Accounting policies continued £m Note 2012 2011
Revenue 1,2 1,749.4 1,854.4
Cost of sales (1,173.3) (1,271.1)
Gross profit 576.1 583.3
Selling and distribution costs (81.1) (81.0)
Administrative expenses (266.7) (250.2)
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 7.4 9.4
Operating profit 2 235.7 261.5
Finance income 4 33.4 43.8
Finance costs excluding swap cancellation costs (66.0) (82.7)
Debt and interest rate swap cancellation costs – (15.4)
Finance costs 4 (66.0) (98.1)
Business divestments and similar income 29 2.9 27 .1
Profit before taxation 1 206.0 234.3
Taxation 5 (32.6) (46.3)
Profit after taxation for the year 173.4 188.0
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 173.3 187 .9
Non-controlling interests 0.1 0.1
173.4 188.0
Earnings per Ordinary Share 7
Basic 16.13p 16.80p
Diluted 16.08p 16.76p
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
69 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Consolidated income statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2012 £m Note 2012 2011
Profit after taxation for the year 173.4 188.0
Net translation differences on investments in overseas subsidiaries 26 (24.0) (2.4)
Actuarial loss on pensions 23 (15.7) (40.6)
Actuarial loss on other retirement obligations 23 (0.5) –
Reclassification of cash flow hedge fair values 22 7.2 20.4
Movements in hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 22 (3.1) (8.1)
Tax effects 5 (0.8) 7.0
Other comprehensive expense for the year (36.9) (23.7)
Total comprehensive income for the year 136.5 164.3
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 136.4 164.2
Non-controlling interests 0.1 0.1
136.5 164.3
Trading profit is calculated as follows:
£m Note 2012 2011
Operating profit 235.7 261.5
Adjusted to exclude:
Business restructuring – primarily Excellence in Delivery 37.9 31.9
Movements in non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments (11.1) 5.4
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 68.9 68.0
Insurance proceeds related to settlement of commercial dispute – (6.0)
M&A related adjustments 1.7 4.1
Trading profit 8 333.1 364.9
70 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2012 £m Note 2012 2011
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 9 1,102.1 917.6
Property, plant and equipment 10 304.8 318.6
Investment properties 11 10.7 11.2
Investments in joint ventures and associates 12 15.8 16.1
Trade and other receivables 15 47.1 16.9
Deferred tax 21 9.8 18.3
Derivative financial instruments 22 3.4 1.1
1,493.7 1,299.8
Current assets
Inventories 13 306.4 304.6
Trade and other receivables 15 281.0 300.6
Current tax receivables 7.5 1.2
Derivative financial instruments 22 3.7 1.4
Cash and cash equivalents 16 264.2 345.6
Assets classified as held for sale 17 15.1 30.3
877.9 983.7
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Borrowings 18 (307.3) (225.7)
Trade and other payables 19 (349.9) (336.6)
Provisions 20 (36.3) (37.1)
Current tax liabilities (119.2) (129.3)
Derivative financial instruments 22 (6.6) (13.4)
Liabilities classified as held for sale 17 (3.2) (6.9)
(822.5) (749.0)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 18 (316.8) (352.4)
Trade and other payables 19 (39.1) (50.7)
Provisions 20 (10.9) (8.0)
Deferred tax 21 (44.2) (15.5)
Derivative financial instruments 22 (10.3) (17 .6)
Retirement benefit obligations 23 (73.4) (71.2)
(494.7) (515.4)
Net assets 1,054.4 1,019.1
Equity
Share capital 25 28.9 28.9
Share premium account 126.6 126.6
Other reserves 26 64.2 83.8
Retained earnings 834.1 779.3
Total equity attributable to the owners of the parent 1,053.8 1,018.6
Non-controlling interests in equity 0.6 0.5
Total equity 1,054.4 1,019.1
Net debt 16 (359.9) (232.5)
The financial statements on pages 62 to 1 12 were approved by a duly appointed and authorised committee of the Board on 6 March 2013 and signed on its 
behalf by:
R Murphy     W Tucker
Directors 
71 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 December 2012 £m
Share  
capital
Share  
premium  
account
Other  
reserves  
(note 26)
Retained  
earnings
Total equity 
attributable to 
owners of the 
parent
Non– 
controlling 
interests  
in equity
Total 
equity
Total equity at 1 January 201 1 28.9 126.6 69.8 850.5 1,075.8 0.4 1,076.2
Profit for the year – – – 187.9 187.9 0.1 188.0
Net translation differences on investments in overseas subsidiaries – – (2.4) – (2.4) – (2.4)
Actuarial loss on pensions – – – (40.6) (40.6) – (40.6)
Reclassification of cash flow hedge fair values (note 22) – – 20.4 – 20.4 – 20.4
Movements in hedge accounted derivative financial instruments  
(note 22) – –(8.1) –(8.1) –(8.1)
Tax effects (note 5) – – (2.3) 9.3 7.0 – 7.0
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 7 .6 156.6 164.2 0.1 164.3
Net purchase of treasury shares – – – (159.5) (159.5) – (159.5)
Dividends authorised (note 6) – – – (69.4) (69.4) – (69.4)
Share-based payments (note 27) – – 6.1 – 6.1 – 6.1
Dividend equivalents paid on vesting of PSP and BCP awards – – (0.2) – (0.2) – (0.2)
Release of hedge reserve – – 3.6 – 3.6 – 3.6
Transfers of other reserves to retained earnings – – (1.1) 1.1 – – –
Tax effects (note 5) – – (2.0) – (2.0) – (2.0)
Total equity at 31 December 201 1 28.9 126.6 83.8 779.3 1,018.6 0.5 1,019.1
Profit for the year – – – 173.3 173.3 0.1 173.4
Net translation differences on investments in overseas subsidiaries – – (24.0) – (24.0) – (24.0)
Actuarial loss on pensions – – – (15.7) (15.7) – (15.7)
Actuarial loss on other retirement obligations – – – (0.5) (0.5) – (0.5)
Reclassification of cash flow hedge fair values (note 22) – – 7.2 – 7.2 – 7.2
Movements in hedge accounted derivative financial instruments  
(note 22) – – (3.1) – (3.1) – (3.1)
Tax effects (note 5) – – (3.2) 2.4 (0.8) – (0.8)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – (23.1) 159.5 136.4 0.1 136.5
Net purchase of treasury shares – – – (18.7) (18.7) – (18.7)
Dividends authorised (note 6) – – – (92.5) (92.5) – (92.5)
Share-based payments (note 27) – – 6.8 – 6.8 – 6.8
Dividend equivalents paid on vesting of PSP and BCP awards – – (0.1) – (0.1) – (0.1)
Release of hedge reserve – – 2.8 – 2.8 – 2.8
Transfers of other reserves to retained earnings – – (6.5) 6.5 – – –
Tax effects (note 5) – – 0.5 – 0.5 – 0.5
Total equity at 31 December 2012 28.9 126.6 64.2 834.1 1,053.8 0.6 1,054.4
72 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2012  £m Note 2012 2011
Operating profit 235.7 261.5
Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates (7.4) (9.4)
Depreciation and amortisation 129.2 129.4
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.6 1.7
M&A related adjustments (4.7) 4.1
Movements in non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 22 (11.1) 5.4
Pension contributions in excess of service cost 23 (15.4) (48.8)
Share-based payments 27 6.8 6.1
Decrease in provisions (1.4) (0.5)
Increase in inventories (3.6) (13.7)
Decrease in trade and other receivables 34.4 8.6
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (1.0) 9.1
Tax paid (45.2) (24.3)
Interest paid (35.3) (42.4)
Debt and interest rate swap cancellation costs – (15.4)
Interest received 6.6 9.4
Net cash from operating activities 288.2 280.8
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends received from joint ventures 32 7.5 8.1
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (48.2) (48.6)
Purchase of intangible assets (13.8) (2.0)
Capitalised expenditure on intangible assets 9 (1.4) (0.2)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.0 1.0
Provision of loan to joint ventures net of repayments (36.9) (8.0)
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash or overdraft acquired 28 (282.7) (147 .8)
Deferred and contingent consideration paid (3.0) (2.6)
Proceeds from vesting of warrants in acquired business 28 8.4 –
Proceeds of business divestments 29 43.9 230.4
Proceeds on disposal of assets previously held for sale 3.5 16.9
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (321.7) 47 .2
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid 6 (92.5) (69.4)
Purchase of treasury shares (26.3) (165.7)
Proceeds on allocation of treasury shares 7.5 6.2
New borrowings 184.5 7.3
Repayment of borrowings (113.1) (246.7)
Net cash used in financing activities (39.9) (468.3)
Exchange movements (8.3) 1.5
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (81.7) (138.8)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 331.9 470.7
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 16 250.2 331.9
 
A reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents to the balance sheet and movement in net debt is detailed in note 16. 
73 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Consolidated cash flow statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2012 1. Segmental information
Operating segments
The Group reports four segments whose revenue and results are reported to the Board. The principal activities of these segments are as follows: 
Cobham Aerospace and Security Providing end-to-end avionics and communication equipment, law enforcement and national security 
solutions, and satellite communication equipment for land, sea and air applications.
Cobham Defence Systems Supplying critical technology for network centric and intelligence operations, moving information 
around the digital battlefield with customised and off-the-shelf solutions for people and systems to 
communicate on land, sea and air.
Cobham Mission Systems Providing safety and survival systems for extreme environments, nose-to-tail refuelling systems  
and wing-tip to wing-tip mission systems for fast jets, transport aircraft and rotorcraft,  
and remote controlled robots and fully equipped bomb disposal vehicles for homeland security  
and military applications.
Cobham Aviation Services Delivering outsourced aviation services for military and civil customers worldwide through military 
training, special mission flight operations, outsourced commercial aviation and aircraft engineering.
Non-core businesses are those which were identified for divestment in 201 1. The Analytic Solutions and Beacons businesses were divested in 201 1 and  
2012 respectively. 
Revenue Profit before taxation
£m Note 2012 2011 2012 2011 (as restated)
Aerospace and Security 697.3 637.0 149.1 146.9
Defence Systems 322.9 323.9 44.9 54.7
Mission Systems 372.6 371.8 81.3 84.2
Aviation Services 326.6 308.1 38.0 41.5
Head office, other activities and elimination of inter-segment items (6.5) (7.2) 14.9 15. 1
Core Group 1,712.9 1,633.6 328.2 342.4
Non-core businesses 36.5 220.8 4.9 22.5
Total Group 1,749.4 1,854.4 333.1 364.9
Business restructuring – primarily Excellence in Delivery 8 (37.9) (31.9)
Movements in non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 22 11.1 (5.4)
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 8 (68.9) (68.0)
Insurance proceeds related to settlement of commercial dispute 8 – 6.0
M&A related adjustments 8 (1.7) (4.1)
Net finance costs 4 (32.6) (54.3)
Business divestments and similar income 29 2.9 27 .1
Profit before taxation 206.0 234.3
The Group’s share of the post-tax results of joint ventures and associates totalling £7 .4m (201 1: £9.4m) arises in Aviation Services (£7 .0m, 201 1: £9.4m) and 
Aerospace and Security (£0.4m, 201 1: £nil). 
The comparative segmental analysis of profit before taxation above has been re-presented to reflect the Group-wide brand charge of up to 1%, now charged 
to the segments from Head Office. 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment, investment properties and amortisation of internally generated intangibles are included in the calculation  
of trading profit as provided to the Board. Segment assets are not reviewed by the Board.
74 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Group financial statements Depreciation and amortisation Segment assets
£m 2012 2011 2012 2011
Aerospace and Security 14.7 14.1 941.5 655.7
Defence Systems 14.8 13.3 448.2 518.0
Mission Systems 6.5 5.8 343.0 357.8
Aviation Services 23.6 25.4 226.2 228.2
Head office, other activities and elimination of inter-segment items – 0.5 76.0 64.9
Core Group 59.6 59.1 2,034.9 1,824.6
Non-core businesses 0.7 2.3 32.3 75.2
Segment total 60.3 61.4 2,067.2 1,899.8
Interests in joint ventures and associates – – 15.8 16.1
Unallocated assets – – 288.6 367.6
Total Group 60.3 61.4 2,371.6 2,283.5
Details of employees analysed by operating segment can be found in note 3.
Geographical information
Revenue from external customers analysed by their geographical location, irrespective of the origin of the goods and services, is shown below. Revenue 
from customers located in individual countries within the EU (except the UK) and the rest of the world is not considered to be individually material. 
Non-current assets exclude derivative financial instruments and deferred tax assets.
£m UK USA Australia
Other  
EU countries
Rest of 
the world Total
Revenue
Year to 31 December 2012 172.3 885.6 241.4 292.5 157.6 1,749.4
Year to 31 December 201 1 170.6 1,040.2 219.0 253.3 171.3 1,854.4
Non-current assets
At 31 December 2012 258.0 666.7 111.5 401.7 42.6 1,480.5
At 31 December 201 1 223.1 762.4 121.7 131.3 41.9 1,280.4
2. Revenue and profit for the year
Revenue
Revenue comprises income from the sale of goods and services during the year and can be analysed as follows:
£m 2012 2011
Revenue from sale of goods 1,423.1 1,355.2
Revenue from services 326.3 499.2
1,749.4 1,854.4
Major customers
Revenue of £162.9m (201 1: £287 .2m) is attributable to US Government departments and agencies, although this is widely spread across different agencies 
and customers. This accounts for 9.3% of total revenue (201 1: 15.5% including the Analytic Solutions business divested during 201 1) and originates in all 
segments other than Cobham Aviation Services. 
75 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Operating profit for the year
The operating profit for the year is after charging/(crediting):
£m Note 2012 2011
Staff costs 3 538.7 571.8
Materials cost of goods sold 575.4 608.2
Company funded research and development 75.4 75.3
Property rental income 11 (1.8) (1.7)
Royalty income (1.3) (2.3)
Insurance proceeds related to settlement of commercial dispute – (6.0)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10 55.2 57.1
Amortisation of intangible assets 9
Intangible assets recognised on business combinations 68.9 68.0
Other intangible assets 4.8 4.0
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.6 3.4
Operating lease rentals
Aircraft 8.4 9.3
Other including plant & machinery and property 22.7 27 .7
Net foreign exchange losses 3.6 0.4
Amortisation of intangible assets is included in administrative expenses.
During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Company’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its associates, as follows:
£m 2012 2011
Annual audit of the parent company and Group financial statements 1.1 1.1
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 0.9 0.8
Total fees payable for audit and assurance services 2.0 1.9
Fees payable for other services:
Tax compliance services 0.2 0.2
Other tax advisory services 0.8 1.1
Other assurance services 0.1 0.2
Total fees payable for other services 1.1 1.5
Total fees payable to the auditors 3.1 3.4
In addition to the amounts shown above, the auditors received fees of £45,750 (201 1: £31,500) for audit of the Group’s pension schemes.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate governance statement on pages 42 to 43 and includes an explanation of how 
auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
76 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 3. Employment costs
The average number of employees during the year, analysed by segment, is as follows:
2012 2011
Aerospace and Security 4,019 3,753
Defence Systems 2,329 2,475
Mission Systems 1,473 1,419
Aviation Services 1,815 1,664
Head office and other activities 131 118
Core Group 9,767 9,429
Non-core businesses 225 1,267
Total Group 9,992 10,696
The aggregate employment costs of Group employees are as follows:
£m Note 2012 2011
Wages and salaries 467.2 494.4
Social security costs 39.0 43.3
Pension costs
 Defined benefit 23 4.6 4.2
 Defined contribution 23 21.1 24.0
Share-based payments 27 6.8 5.9
538.7 571.8
4. Finance income and costs
£m Note 2012 2011
Finance income:
Bank interest 4.0 8.6
Expected return on pension scheme assets 23 26.6 32.7
Other finance income 2.8 2.5
Total finance income 33.4 43.8
Finance costs:
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans (32.1) (40.3)
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 23 (28.6) (31.5)
Debt and interest rate swap cancellation costs – (15.4)
Other finance expense (5.3) (10.9)
Total finance costs (66.0) (98.1)
Net finance costs excluding pension schemes (30.6) (40.1)
Debt and interest rate swap cancellation costs – (15.4)
Net finance (cost)/income on pension schemes (2.0) 1.2
Net finance costs (32.6) (54.3)
Other finance expense above includes £2.8m (201 1: £3. 1m) in relation to interest rate swaps (previously designated as cash flow hedges) which were 
terminated during 2009 and are being amortised over the life of the original contracts. It also includes £1.7m (201 1: £1.9m) relating to the unwinding  
of acquisition related discounting, excluded from underlying profit in note 8.
Debt and interest rate swap cancellation costs of £15.4m were incurred in 201 1 relating to the original financing of the Analytic Solutions business which  
was divested during that year. These costs are excluded from underlying profit as shown in note 8.
77 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 5. Income tax expense
£m Note 2012 2011
Current tax:
Charge for the year 50.0 59.5
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years (2.6) (7.8)
Current tax 47.4 51.7
Deferred tax:
Charge for the year (0.1) (4.7)
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years (14.7) (0.7)
Deferred tax 21 (14.8) (5.4)
Total tax charge for the year 32.6 46.3
Income tax is calculated on the estimated assessable profit for the year at the rates prevailing in the relevant tax jurisdiction. The total tax charge for the  
year includes £6.8m (201 1: £32. 1m) for the UK. The tax charge included in the share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates amounts to £1.5m 
(201 1: £2.8m).
The total charge for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows:
£m 2012 2011
Profit before tax 206.0 234.3
Tax at the UK income tax rate of 24.5% (201 1: 26.5%) 50.5 62.1
Tax effect of share of results of joint ventures and associates (1.8) (2.5)
Effect of differences in overseas taxation rates 6.7 1.7
Expenditure qualifying for additional R&D tax relief (5.7) (6.2)
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years (17.3) (8.5)
Impact of other items 0.2 (0.3)
Total tax charge for the year 32.6 46.3
In addition to the tax expense charged to the income statement, the following charges/(credits) have been included in OCI and equity: 
£m 2012 2011
Included in OCI
Actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligations (2.2) (9.3)
Actuarial loss on other retirement benefit obligations (0.2) –
Movements in hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 3.2 2.3
0.8 (7.0)
Included in equity
Share-based payments 0.5 (1.0)
Deferred tax impact of cancelled interest rate swaps – (1.0)
0.5 (2.0)
The main rate of UK corporation tax will reduce from 24% to 23% from 1 April 2013, with further reductions proposed to reduce the rate to 21%  
by 1 April 2014.
78 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Group financial statements continued 6. Dividends
The following dividends on Ordinary Shares were authorised and paid during the year:
£m 2012 2011
Final dividend of 6.2 pence per share for 201 1 (2010: 4.372 pence) 66.7 49.8
Interim dividend of 2.4 pence per share for 2012 (201 1: 1.8 pence) 25.8 19.6
 92.5 69.4
In addition to the above, the Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2012 of 6.4 pence per share which 
will absorb an estimated £68.3m of shareholders’ funds. This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been 
included as a liability in these financial statements. If authorised, it will be paid on 31 May 2013 to shareholders who are on the register of members as at  
3 May 2013. The total dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2012 will therefore be 8.8 pence per share (201 1: 8.0 pence). The total 
amount payable in respect of 2012 will be £94. 1m.
7. Earnings per Ordinary Share
2012 2011
Earnings
£m
Weighted  
average number  
of shares
million
Per-share 
amount 
pence
Earnings 
£m
Weighted  
average number  
of shares 
million
Per-share  
amount 
pence
Basic earnings per share (EPS)
Earnings attributable to owners of the parent 173.3 1,074.7 16.13 187.9 1,118.4 16.80
Effect of dilutive securities
Options 2.3 1.6
Long-term incentive plans 0.7 1.1
Diluted EPS 173.3 1,077.7 16.08 187 .9 1,121.1 16.76
8. Underlying measures
In addition to the information required by IAS 33 Earnings per Share, the Directors believe that it is helpful to calculate an underlying earnings per share 
figure. Underlying profit is defined in detail in the accounting policies on pages 62 and 63.
£m 2012 2011
Operating profit 235.7 261.5
Business restructuring – primarily Excellence in Delivery 37.9 31.9
Movements in non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments:
On contracts open at the year end (6.9) 4.4
On contracts closed during the year (4.2) 1.0
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 68.9 68.0
Insurance proceeds related to settlement of commercial dispute – (6.0)
M&A related adjustments 1.7 4.1
Trading profit 333.1 364.9
Net underlying finance costs (30.9) (37.0)
Underlying profit before taxation 302.2 327.9
Taxation charge on underlying profit (58.9) (81.2)
Non-controlling interest (0.1) (0.1)
Underlying profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent 243.2 246.6
Underlying basic EPS 22.63p 22.05p
Underlying diluted EPS 22.57p 22.00p
Business restructuring costs of £37 .9m (201 1: £38.5m) were incurred as part of the Group’s Excellence in Delivery programme. These costs are incremental to 
normal operations and exclusively relate to the ongoing design and implementation of Standard Operating Frameworks within the principal locations, initial 
79 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information development costs of a new ERP computer system, together with site consolidation and consequential asset write downs and workforce reduction costs. 
Business restructuring in 201 1 also includes a gain on disposal of property of £6.6m.      
Underlying profit excludes the profit on business divestments and similar income (see note 29).
Underlying administrative expenses, which exclude business restructuring, movements in non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments, 
amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations, insurance proceeds related to the settlement of a commercial dispute and other  
M&A related adjustments, amounted to:
£m 2012 2011
Underlying administrative expenses 169.3 146.8
% of revenue 9.7% 7.9%
Underlying administrative expenses for 2012 include integration costs, primarily related to the Thrane & Thrane business, of £5. 1m. In addition there was  
a credit of £12.5m in 201 1 related to past service pension costs.
Net cash from operating activities is reconciled to free cash flow as follows: 
£m 2012 2011
Net cash from operating activities per cash flow statement 288.2 280.8
Dividends received from joint ventures 7.5 8.1
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (48.2) (48.6)
Purchase of intangible assets (13.8) (2.0)
Capitalised expenditure on intangible assets (1.4) (0.2)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.0 1.0
M&A related adjustments 7.8 2.4
Debt and interest rate swap cancellation costs – 15.4
Insurance proceeds related to settlement of commercial dispute – (6.0)
Free cash flow 241.1 250.9
Free cash flow before Excellence in Delivery restructuring costs 272.9 287.9
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
80 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9. Intangible assets
£m Goodwill
Customer 
relationships
T echnology  
based assets
Development  
costs Other Total
Cost
At 1 January 201 1 745.4 328.5 126.0 4.2 66.3 1,270.4
Additions – purchased – – – – 2.0 2.0
Additions – internally generated – – – 0.2 – 0.2
Recognised on business combinations 78.8 55.4 34.1 – 4.8 173.1
Business divestments (138.8) (122.7) (10.9) – (3.7) (276.1)
Disposals and derecognitions – (18.9) (3.7) (0.8) (3.0) (26.4)
Foreign exchange adjustments 2.0 1.2 0.9 – 0.2 4.3
Reclassifications (8.9) (5.7) (8.3) (0.2) (13.7) (36.8)
At 1 January 2012 678.5 237.8 138.1 3.4 52.9 1,110.7
Additions – purchased – – – – 13.8 13.8
Additions – internally generated – – –1.4 –1.4
Recognised on business combinations 150.5 81.9 55.3 – 3.3 291.0
Business divestments (22.5) – (0.4) – (0.2) (23.1)
Disposals and derecognitions –(7.6) (15.3) – (23.3) (46.2)
Foreign exchange adjustments (17.4) (9.8) (4.5) (0.1) (1.7) (33.5)
Reclassifications –– – – 0.7 0.7
At 31 December 2012 789.1 302.3 173.2 4.7 45.5 1,314.8
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 201 1 – 127.2 53.2 2.1 39.5 222.0
Charge for the year 7.0 41.4 18.3 0.5 11.8 79.0
Eliminated on business divestments – (54.1) (4.9) – (3.5) (62.5)
Disposals and derecognitions – (18.9) (3.7) (0.5) (3.0) (26.1)
Foreign exchange adjustments – 0.9 0.4 – 0.1 1.4
Reclassifications (7.0) (4.4) (1.9) – (7.4) (20.7)
At 1 January 2012 –92.1 61.4 2.1 37.5 193.1
Charge for the year –36.0 27.9 0.5 9.3 73.7
Eliminated on business divestments – – (0.2) – (0.2) (0.4)
Disposals and derecognitions –(7.6) (15.3) – (23.1) (46.0)
Foreign exchange adjustments – (4.3) (2.1) (0.1) (1.2) (7.7)
At 31 December 2012 – 116.2 71.7 2.5 22.3 212.7
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2012 789.1 186.1 101.5 2.2 23.2 1,102.1
At 31 December 201 1 678.5 145.7 76.7 1.3 15.4 917.6
At 1 January 201 1 745.4 201.3 72.8 2.1 26.8 1,048.4
During the year the Group acquired Thrane & Thrane A/S and this now forms part of the SATCOM strategic business unit (SBU). Further details can be found  
in note 28. In 201 1 Telerob Holdings GmbH (Mission Equipment), Trivec-Avant Corporation (Antenna Systems) and Corp Ten International Inc. (Tactical 
Communications and Surveillance) were acquired.
Reclassifications in 201 1 include the transfer of assets held for sale.
Customer relationships represents customer lists, customer contracts and the related customer relationships recognised on acquisition. Technology based 
assets represent trade secrets and processes, patented and unpatented technology and know-how recognised on acquisition, together with purchased 
technology assets. Other intangible assets represent purchased and acquired patents, licences and trademarks, software rights and licences and the order 
backlog of acquired businesses at the date of acquisition. Order backlog is derecognised when it has been fully amortised.
81 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Goodwill represents the premium paid in anticipation of future economic benefits from assets that are not capable of being separately identified and 
separately recognised, such as the value of the workforce, and is the only indefinite life intangible asset held by the Group. It is allocated to the lowest level 
within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and is measured as the residual excess of the total consideration 
paid to acquire a business over the fair value of the recognisable net assets acquired.
The Group reviews goodwill for potential impairment of each cash generating unit (CGU) annually, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill 
might be impaired. As a result of the site integrations and other Excellence in Delivery activity CGUs are typically considered to be SBUs.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations unless specific conditions at a CGU dictate otherwise. No such specific 
conditions existed at 31 December 2012 except for businesses held for sale which were assessed for impairment using expected net proceeds of divestment. 
Following detailed review, no impairment provisions have been recognised in the period. In 201 1 £7 .0m of goodwill was written down in respect of a business 
held for sale.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and operating cash projections during the period 
for which management have detailed plans. Management estimate discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the Group’s 
time value of money and the risks specific to the CGU being measured. 
The Group annually prepares cash flow forecasts for the following five years at CGU level and these are approved by management. These forecasts take into 
account the current and expected economic environment including factors such as the softening of the US defence market in the near term. The growth 
rate assumed after this five year period is based on long-term GDP projections of the primary market for the CGU. The long-term projections used are in the 
range 2.5% to 3.0%. The growth rates assume that demand for the Group’s products in the USA and in the UK remains broadly in line with the underlying 
economic environment in the long term future. Taking into account the expectation of future market conditions management believe that the evolution of 
selling prices and direct costs will reflect past practices. 
The pre-tax rates used to discount the forecast cash flows are within the range 8.8% to 10.9% (201 1: 9.0% to 10.8%), having considered the country  
and currency risks in the principal territories in which the Group operates.
If the goodwill allocated to a CGU represents more than 10% of the Group’s total goodwill carrying value then the CGU is considered to be individually 
significant. These CGUs are as follows:
Goodwill carrying value
£m
Headroom
£m
Pre-tax  
discount rate
Defence Electronics (previously Sensor Systems) 219 167 9.7%
SATCOM 200 263 9.1%
Antenna Systems 90 887 9.5%
Tactical Communications and Surveillance 107 125 9.3%
Life Support 84 455 9.7%
Sensitivity analysis has been performed on these CGUs and no impairment losses would arise if the discount rate increased by 20%, if the growth rate was 
zero or if cash flows reduced by 20%. The Directors have not identified any other likely changes in other significant assumptions that would cause the 
carrying value of recognised goodwill to exceed its recoverable amount.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
82 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 10. Property, plant and equipment
 Land and buildings
Plant and  
machinery  
(including aircraft 
& vehicles)
Fixtures 
fittings 
tools and 
equipment
Payments 
on account 
and assets 
under 
construction Total £m Freehold Long leases Short leases
Cost
At 1 January 201 1 86.2 33.4 12.7 560.4 82.4 12.4 787.5
Additions 1.3 2.5 0.5 32.5 8.1 3.8 48.7
Acquired with business combinations – – – 0.4 0.6 – 1.0
Business divestments – (0.2) (2.5) (4.6) (4.3) – (11.6)
Disposals (1.5) – (0.1) (28.5) (3.2) – (33.3)
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.1 0.1 – 2.0 (0.5) – 1.7
Reclassifications (1.2) 0.6 (0.4) 3.7 (3.5) (7.4) (8.2)
At 1 January 2012 84.9 36.4 10.2 565.9 79.6 8.8 785.8
Additions 0.1 1.9 0.5 23.5 5.3 16.3 47.6
Acquired with business combinations 2.9 – – 2.6 0.9 – 6.4
Business divestments (1.4) – – (3.1) (0.5) – (5.0)
Disposals (0.7) (0.5) (0.3) (14.9) (1.2) – (17.6)
Foreign exchange adjustments (2.3) (0.6) (0.4) (13.5) (2.3) (0.3) (19.4)
Reclassifications 7.7 (0.2) – 2.2 4.7 (13.8) 0.6
At 31 December 2012 91.2 37.0 10.0 562.7 86.5 11.0 798.4
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 201 1 22.6 11.2 6.1 350.3 57.6 – 447.8
Depreciation charge for the year 4.1 2.7 1.4 43.2 5.7 – 57.1
Eliminated on business divestments – (0.2) (1.3) (2.4) (2.2) – (6.1)
Eliminated on disposals (0.2) – (0.1) (25.8) (2.8) – (28.9)
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.1 0.1 – 1.2 (0.5) – 0.9
Reclassifications (1.1) – 0.1 (1.6) (1.0) – (3.6)
At 1 January 2012 25.5 13.8 6.2 364.9 56.8 – 467.2
Depreciation charge for the year 3.7 2.6 1.2 40.2 7.5 – 55.2
Eliminated on business divestments (0.4) – – (2.6) (0.4) – (3.4)
Eliminated on disposals (0.6) – (0.2) (13.3) (0.9) – (15.0)
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.8) (0.5) (0.2) (7.8) (1.7) – (11.0)
Reclassifications – (0.2) – – 0.8 – 0.6
At 31 December 2012 27.4 15.7 7.0 381.4 62.1 – 493.6
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2012 63.8 21.3 3.0 181.3 24.4 11.0 304.8
At 31 December 201 1 59.4 22.6 4.0 201.0 22.8 8.8 318.6
At 1 January 201 1 63.6 22.2 6.6 210.1 24.8 12.4 339.7
83 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 11. Investment properties
£m
Cost
At 1 January 201 1 12.7
Reclassifications 0.3
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.1
At 1 January 2012 13.1
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.3)
At 31 December 2012 12.8
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 201 1 1.5
Depreciation charge for the year 0.3
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.1
At 1 January 2012 1.9
Depreciation charge for the year 0.3
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.1)
At 31 December 2012 2.1
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2012 10.7
At 31 December 201 1 11.2
At 1 January 201 1 11.2
All of the Group’s investment properties are held under freehold interests and are valued under the cost model.
Property rental income earned by the Group from its investment properties amounted to £1.8m (201 1: £1.7m), which is net of all direct costs associated with 
the leasing of the property except depreciation. The buildings are leased to commercial users on operating leases with terms of between 5 and 25 years, 
commencing between 1998 and 2010. A forward starting lease has been agreed for one property extending that lease term to 2022.
The fair value of the Group’s investment properties has been assessed to be £18.0m (201 1: £18.4m). These values are based on Directors’ estimates using 
current market data. 
12. Investments in joint ventures and associates
The Group has the following interests in joint ventures within the Aviation Services segment:
 45% of the voting share capital in Aviation Défense Service SA, a company incorporated in France.
 50% of the voting share capital in FB Heliservices Limited, a company incorporated in England and Wales.
 50% of the voting share capital in FBS Limited, a company incorporated in England and Wales.
 50% of the voting share capital in FB Leasing Limited, a company incorporated in England and Wales.
Notwithstanding the fact that the holding is 45%, the governance structure for Aviation Défense Service SA is such that the Group has joint control with its 
partner and therefore the investment is treated as a joint venture.
Within the Cobham Aerospace and Security segment the Group has a 50% interest in Northrop Grumman Cobham Intercoms LLC, a company incorporated 
in the USA. 
The Group also holds 30% of the voting share capital in Philtech Co., Ltd, a company operating and incorporated in South Korea. This is held within the 
Cobham Aerospace and Security segment and is accounted for as an associate undertaking. The assets and results of the associated undertaking are not 
separately disclosed on the basis of materiality.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
84 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The share of the balance sheets and income statements of the joint ventures and associates which has been included in the consolidated financial 
statements is as follows:
£m 2012 2011
Current assets 13.1 17 .1
Non-current assets 44.4 45.3
Current liabilities (13.5) (16.9)
Non-current liabilities (28.2) (29.4)
Net assets 15.8 16.1
Income 49.6 51.7
Expenses (39.6) (39.4)
During the current and prior year loans were made to FB Leasing Limited and FB Heliservices Limited on commercial terms, utilising surplus cash.
13. Inventories
£m 2012 2011
Raw materials and consumables 128.1 132.2
Work in progress 185.8 183.6
Finished goods and goods for resale 34.2 29.9
Allowance for obsolescence (41.7) (41.1)
306.4 304.6
During the year £14.0m (201 1: £13. 1m) was provided, £5.0m (201 1: £6.2m) was utilised and £9.4m (201 1: £6.4m) of the allowance for obsolescence  
was reversed. 
This allowance is reviewed by management on a regular basis and further amounts are provided or released as considered necessary. The amounts are 
generally determined based on factors which include ageing and known demand. Subsequent events may give rise to these estimates being revised and, 
consequently, to reversal of amounts previously provided. No significant inventory was written off directly to the income statement (201 1: £nil). 
Inventory will be realised within the normal operating cycle of the businesses. Within the Mission Systems segment, inventory relating to long term  
contracts expected to be realised after more than 12 months amounts to £34.6m (201 1: £37 .9m).
14. Financial instruments
The Group’s financial assets and liabilities can be categorised as follows:
£m Note
Loans and  
receivables
Fair value through 
profit or loss
Amortised  
cost
Derivatives used 
for hedging 
T otal  
carrying amount
Financial assets
Trade receivables 15 225.2 – – – 225.2
Other receivables 15 82.3 – – – 82.3
Cash and cash equivalents 16 264.2 – – – 264.2
Derivative contracts (not hedge accounted) 22 –7.1 – – 7.1
Financial liabilities 
Borrowings 18 – – (624.1) – (624.1)
Trade payables 19 – – (105.1) – (105.1)
Other liabilities 19 – – (159.1) – (159.1)
Derivative contracts (not hedge accounted) 22 –(8.6) – – (8.6)
Hedging instruments
Liabilities 22 ––– (8.3) (8.3)
Net financial liabilities at 31 December 2012 (326.4)
85 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information £m Note
Loans  
and receivables
Fair value through 
profit or loss
Amortised  
cost
Derivatives used  
for hedging 
T otal  
carrying amount
Financial assets
Trade receivables 15 239.6 – – – 239.6
Other receivables 15 58.5 – – – 58.5
Cash and cash equivalents 16 345.6 – – – 345.6
Derivative contracts (not hedge accounted) 22 –2.5 – – 2.5
Financial liabilities
Borrowings 18 – – (578.1) – (578.1)
Trade payables 19 – – (102.9) – (102.9)
Other liabilities 19 – – (140.5) – (140.5)
Derivative contracts (not hedge accounted) 22 – (18.6) – – (18.6)
Hedging instruments
Liabilities 22 – – – (12.4) (12.4)
Net financial liabilities at 31 December 201 1 (206.3)
IFRS 7 requires the disclosure of financial assets and liabilities held at fair value using a hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making 
the measurements. All financial instruments measured at fair value in the table above are classified as level 2 in the fair value measurement hierarchy, as they 
have been determined using significant inputs which are based on observable market data.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments, fixed rate loans and finance leases have been determined by the use of valuation techniques, primarily 
discounted cash flows, based on assumptions that are supported by observable market prices or rates, whilst the fair value of bank overdrafts and floating 
rate loans are based on market values. The carrying value of trade and other receivables and trade payables and other liabilities are assumed to approximate 
to their fair values due to their short term nature. 
At 31 December 2012, the fair value of the fixed rate senior notes, included in borrowings at £220.9m (201 1: £313.0m) is £272.2m (201 1: £370.4m). 
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of all other financial assets and liabilities recorded in these financial statements is equal to, or approximates 
to, their fair value. 
The fair value of the Group’s net financial liabilities at 31 December 2012 is £377 .7m (201 1: £263.7m).
The Group’s investment in the Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft companies as described in note 15d is classified as available for sale. The Group does not hold 
any financial assets which would be classified as held to maturity.
The total interest income and expense for financial assets and liabilities not held at fair value through profit or loss is as shown in note 4.
15. Trade and other receivables
15a. Current
£m 2012 2011
Trade receivables (net of provision for impairment) 225.2 239.6
Accrued income 15.2 15. 1
Other receivables 20.0 26.5
Prepayments 20.6 19.4
281.0 300.6
15b. Non-current
£m 2012 2011
Other receivables 47.1 16.9
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
86 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15c. Impairment of trade receivables
£m 2012 2011
Trade receivables 227.9 241.6
Provision for impairment of trade receivables (2.7) (2.0)
Net trade receivables 225.2 239.6
The Group has not experienced any material change in performance with respect to the recovery of trade receivables. A significant proportion of its 
business is directly with government agencies or in respect of large government funded military programmes, where risk is considered to remain low. 
Information concerning credit risk is shown in note 24.
The credit quality of trade receivables can be analysed as follows: 
£m 2012 2011
Amounts currently or not yet due and not impaired 186.4 192.6
Amounts past due but not impaired 37.5 46.0
Amounts for which full or partial impairment provision has been made 4.0 3.0
At 31 December 227.9 241.6
Trade receivables which are past due but not considered by management to be impaired are aged as follows:
£m 2012 2011
Due at 31 December 26.4 33.1
1 month overdue 4.5 7. 1
2 months overdue 2.4 3.3
3 or more months overdue 4.2 2.5
37.5 46.0
The total amounts and ageing of trade receivables considered to be fully or partially impaired are as follows: 
£m 2012 2011
Due at 31 December 0.5 0.2
1 month overdue 0.1 –
2 months overdue – 0.1
3 or more months overdue 3.4 2.7
4.0 3.0
£2.7m (201 1: £2.0m) has been provided against the above trade receivables which are considered fully or partially impaired. Movements in this provision 
during the year are as follows: 
£m 2012 2011
At 1 January 2.0 2.4
Additional provisions 2.5 3.9
Utilised (1.0) (1.2)
Unused amounts reversed (0.6) (0.5)
Business divestments (0.1) (2.6)
Foreign exchange movements (0.1) –
At 31 December 2.7 2.0
Other classes of financial assets within trade and other receivables do not include any overdue or impaired assets.
15d. Trade investments
Cobham plc has non-controlling shareholdings in three companies in connection with the Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft project. The total amount invested 
in 2008 was £44,000; this is held as a trade investment and the results of these companies are not consolidated within the results of the Group. Cobham plc 
has committed to making further investments in this project as detailed in note 31. 
87 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 16. Cash and cash equivalents and net debt
£m Note 2012 2011
Cash and cash equivalents per balance sheet 264.2 345.6
Bank overdrafts 18 (14.0) (13.7)
Cash and cash equivalents as shown in cash flow statement 250.2 331.9
Cash and cash equivalents include term deposits in Australia equivalent to £7 .5m in total (201 1: £12.5m). These term deposits are held primarily to satisfy  
a requirement to provide security over the residual value of leased assets under an agreement which expires in 2020 but can be realised within three months 
under the terms of the agreements. Also, in connection with the FSTA project, a small number of accounts have been established, the balances of which are 
subject to charges in certain circumstances. There were no balances on these accounts during 2012 or 201 1 or at the year end dates.
Analysis of net debt
£m Note 2012 2011
Cash and cash equivalents per balance sheet 264.2 345.6
Borrowings – current liabilities 18 (307.3) (225.7)
Borrowings – non-current liabilities 18 (316.8) (352.4)
(359.9) (232.5)
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
£m 2012 2011
Net debt at 1 January (232.5) (326.1)
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents in the year per cash flow statement, before exchange movements (73.4) (140.3)
New borrowings (184.5) (7.3)
Repayment of borrowings 113.1 246.7
Exchange movements 17.4 (5.5)
Net debt at 31 December (359.9) (232.5)
17. Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale
£m 2012 2011
Intangible assets 1.1 17 .2
Property, plant and equipment 3.1 3.4
Inventories 6.1 6.8
Trade and other receivables 4.8 2.9
Total assets classified as held for sale 15.1 30.3
Trade and other payables (2.5) (2.5)
Tax and other liabilities (0.7) (4.4)
Total liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale (3.2) (6.9)
Total net assets of disposal groups and non-current assets held for sale 11.9 23.4
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale at 31 December 2012 includes the remaining Commercial Systems business yet to be sold. This business 
has been treated as non-core for segmental reporting as shown in note 1. Assets held for sale also includes empty properties at sites now integrated into 
other locations.
These assets are expected to be disposed of within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
88 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 18. Borrowings
£m 2012 2011
Current:
Bank overdrafts 14.0 13.7
Bank loans 292.3 100.4
Loan notes 0.4 1.0
Senior notes – 110.3
Other borrowings 0.3 0.1
Finance leases 0.3 0.2
307.3 225.7
Non-current:
Bank loans – 48.3
Loan notes – 0.5
Senior notes 316.2 302.5
Other borrowings – 0.4
Finance leases 0.6 0.7
316.8 352.4
Total borrowings 624.1 578.1
The Group’s principal borrowings include bank overdrafts, bank loans and senior notes. Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and accrue interest  
at floating rates. Interest is payable on all bank loans at LIBOR plus margin and the loans comprise the following: 
Amount drawn Undrawn facilities
2012 2011 2012 2011
Principal Agreement date Maturity date £m £m £m £m
£300m multi-currency revolving credit agreement July 2005 July 2012 – 100.4 – 199.6
US$75m credit agreement December 2008 December 2013 46.2 48.3 – –
DKK525m multi-currency revolving facility June 2012 October 2016 18.9 – 38.2 –
US$360m multi-currency revolving credit 
agreement comprising: October 2011
US$90m October 2016 53.5 – 1.9 –
US$270m October 2017 160.5 – 5.6 –
EUR70m multi-currency revolving facility June 2012 June 2017 13.2 – 43.6 –
292.3 148.7 89.3 199.6
Under the US$75m agreement, which expires in 2031, the lender has a series of put options exercisable every three years from December 2013. The 
US$360m agreement contains lender’s options to extend for up to two years and during 2012, the first extension of one year has been confirmed  
by the lenders of US$270m. The DKK525m facility contains lender’s options that could extend the agreement by up to two years.
The drawdowns under the revolving multi-currency credit agreements are for periods not exceeding three months and hence the balance is reported  
within current borrowings.
89 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Senior notes outstanding are as set out below:
2012 2011 2012 2011
Principal Issue date Maturity date US$m US$m £m £m
US$1 70m fixed rate October 2002 October 2012 – 170.0 – 110.3
US$85m fixed rate March 2009 March 2014 76.5 76.5 47.1 49.2
US$90m fixed rate March 2009 March 2016 81.0 81.0 49.8 52.1
US$50m floating rate May 2010 May 2017 50.0 50.0 30.8 32.2
US$105m floating rate January 2010 February/March 2018 105.0 105.0 64.5 67 .6
US$1 75m fixed rate March 2009 March 2019 157.5 157 .5 96.9 101.4
US$44m fixed rate October 2012 October 2020 44.0 – 27.1 –
514.0 640.0 316.2 412.8
The various loan and note subscription agreements include both financial and non-financial covenants but do not contain any provisions for charges over 
Group assets. The terms of the financial covenants are based on adjusted IFRS results. There have been no breaches of the terms of the agreements  
or defaults during the current or comparative periods.
19. Trade and other payables
19a. Current liabilities
£m 2012 2011
Payments received on account 68.6 48.2
Trade payables 104.8 102.6
Other taxes and social security 20.6 15.2
Accruals and deferred income 116.6 133.5
Contingent and deferred consideration 2.5 8.1
Other liabilities 36.8 29.0
349.9 336.6
19b. Non-current liabilities
£m 2012 2011
Payments received on account 11.3 14.9
Trade payables 0.3 0.3
Accruals and deferred income 8.2 10.4
Contingent and deferred consideration 14.3 19.9
Other liabilities 5.0 5.2
39.1 50.7
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
90 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 20. Provisions 
£m 2012 2011
Current liabilities 36.3 37 .1
Non-current liabilities 10.9 8.0
47.2 45.1
Movements in provisions during the year are as follows:
£m
Provisions 
 related to 
businesses  
divested
Warranty
claims
Contract
loss
provisions
Aircraft
maintenance
provisions Other Total
At 1 January 2012 15.3 7.7 3.9 4.5 13.7 45.1
Additional provisions in the year – 4.5 6.1 2.4 5.0 18.0
Acquired on business combinations –4.5 – – 0.5 5.0
Utilisation of provisions (0.6) (4.4) (2.9) (2.0) (1.3) (11.2)
Unused amounts reversed in the year (1.8) (2.0) (1.6) (1.7) (2.1) (9.2)
Reclassifications –0.2 – 0.3 –0.5
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.1) (0.2) (0.1) (0.1) (0.5) (1.0)
At 31 December 2012 12.8 10.3 5.4 3.4 15.3 47.2
Provisions related to businesses divested relate to divestments in prior years and include amounts provided in respect of the divestment of MTS in 2009 and 
longer term warranties given on divestments completed in 2005. Due to uncertainties surrounding the timing of settlement of these items, they have been 
disclosed as current liabilities.
Provisions for warranty claims and contract losses are generally expected to be crystallised within one year.
Aircraft maintenance provisions relate to significant periodic maintenance costs as well as return conditions for leased aircraft. These conditions may relate 
to the number of operational hours to be available before a major maintenance check, the physical configuration of the aircraft or direct costs to be incurred 
by the lessee in the physical return of the aircraft to the lessor. Whilst there is uncertainty over the future level of flying hours, aircraft maintenance 
provisions are anticipated to crystallised in the next nine years.
Other provisions include amounts provided in respect of announced business restructuring and legal claims and are expected to be settled within one year.
91 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 21. Deferred tax
£m 2012 2011
Deferred tax assets (9.8) (18.3)
Deferred tax liabilities 44.2 15.5
34.4 (2.8)
The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group, and the movements thereon:
£m
Accelerated tax 
depreciation
Retirement benefit 
obligations
Intangible  
assets Other Total
At 1 January 201 1 12.0 (22.1) 50.7 (14.3) 26.3
(Credit)/charge to income statement (1.0) 13.6 (12.4) (5.6) (5.4)
Credit to other comprehensive income – (9.3) – (0.6) (9.9)
Charge to reserves – – – 0.6 0.6
Acquired with business combinations (0.3) – 17.3 – 17.0
Business divestments – – (27.2) – (27.2)
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.1 – (0.4) – (0.3)
Reclassifications – – (3.9) – (3.9)
At 1 January 2012 10.8 (17.8) 24.1 (19.9) (2.8)
(Credit)/charge to income statement 7.3 3.0 3.8 (28.9) (14.8)
Charge/(credit) to other comprehensive income –(2.2) – 16.9 14.7
Credits to reserves –– – (0.5) (0.5)
Acquired with business combinations 0.6 – 37.4 (2.6) 35.4
Business divestments –– – 1.3 1.3
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.3) – (1.2) 1.3 (0.2)
Reclassifications – – 1.3 – 1.3
At 31 December 2012 18.4 (17.0) 65.4 (32.4) 34.4
In the table above, intangible assets excludes balances relating to goodwill. Other deferred tax assets and liabilities shown above include balances arising 
from temporary differences in relation to provisions, share-based payments, goodwill and derivative financial instruments. 
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy. Deferred tax balances (after offset) for balance 
sheet purposes are analysed as follows:
£m 2012 2011
Deferred tax liabilities fall due as follows:
Within one year 7.2 5.0
After one year 37.0 10.5
44.2 15.5
Deferred tax assets are recoverable as follows:
Within one year (2.8) (13.9)
After one year (7.0) (4.4)
(9.8) (18.3)
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
92 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances, deferred tax balances are as follows:
£m
Accelerated tax 
depreciation
Retirement benefit 
obligations
Intangible  
assets Other Total
Deferred tax assets (0.8) (17.0) – (42.2) (60.0)
Deferred tax liabilities 19.2 – 65.4 9.8 90.4
At 31 December 2012 18.4 (17.0) 65.4 (32.4) 34.4
Deferred tax assets (0.2) (17.8) – (23.1) (41.1)
Deferred tax liabilities 11.0 – 24.1 3.2 38.3
At 31 December 201 1 10.8 (17.8) 24.1 (19.9) (2.8)
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused capital losses of £65.7m (201 1: £64.9m) potentially available for offset against future capital profits  
in certain circumstances.  No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of this amount because of the unpredictability of future qualifying  
profit streams. These losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures  
for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is £431. 1m (201 1: £51 1.2m). 
The main rate of UK corporation tax will reduce from 24% to 23% from 1 April 2013, with further reductions proposed to reduce the rate to 21%  
by 1 April 2014. 
The Group’s share of the tax on temporary differences arising in connection with interests in joint ventures and associates (included within  
the Group’s share of assets and liabilities as shown in note 12) was £1.3m (201 1: £3.9m).
22. Derivative financial instruments
The fair values of derivative financial instruments are as follows:
£m
Interest rate swaps 
– cash flow hedges
 Foreign exchange 
derivatives
Inflation  
swap Total
Non-current assets –3.4 –3.4
Current assets –3.7 –3.7
Current liabilities (3.5) (2.6) (0.5) (6.6)
Non-current liabilities (4.8) (2.7) (2.8) (10.3)
Fair value at 31 December 2012 (8.3) 1.8 (3.3) (9.8)
Non-current assets –1.1 –1.1
Current assets –1.4 –1.4
Current liabilities (5.8) (7.6) – (13.4)
Non-current liabilities (6.6) (9.3) (1.7) (17.6)
Fair value at 31 December 201 1 (12.4) (14.4) (1.7) (28.5)
93 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information The movements in the fair values of derivative financial instruments during the year are as follows:
£m Note
Interest rate swaps 
– cash flow hedges
 Foreign exchange 
derivatives
Inflation  
swap Total
At 1 January 201 1 (24.7) (10.3) – (35.0)
Loss through income statement – not hedged – (3.7) (1.7) (5.4)
Loss through income statement – other – (0.4) – (0.4)
Cancellation of cash flow hedge 9.0 – – 9.0
Gain reclassified to income statement 11.4 – – 11.4
Loss through OCI – hedged items 26 (8.3) – – (8.3)
Foreign exchange adjustments 26 0.2 – – 0.2
At 1 January 2012 (12.4) (14.4) (1.7) (28.5)
Gain/(loss) through income statement – not hedged –12.8 (1.7) 11.1
Gain through income statement – other – 3.4 – 3.4
Gain reclassified to income statement 26 7.2 – – 7.2
Loss through OCI – hedged items 26 (3.5) – – (3.5)
Foreign exchange adjustments 26 0.4 – 0.1 0.5
At 31 December 2012 (8.3) 1.8 (3.3) (9.8)
Interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedging instruments and hedge accounting is applied. There is no material ineffectiveness in cash flow 
hedges to be reported through the income statement. 
Foreign exchange and inflation derivatives are not accounted for using hedge accounting and movements in fair values are recorded in the income 
statement as part of operating profit. The movement in the fair value of currency swaps which offset movements in currency balances are offset  
against exchange movements in those balances in the income statement. 
Full details of the Group’s financial instrument accounting policies and risk management strategies, objectives and policies are set out in the statement  
of accounting policies and in note 24. 
In 201 1, following the divestment of the Analytic Solutions business and repayment of a portion of floating rate debt, a number of interest rate swaps  
were cancelled. These interest rate swaps had previously been designated as cash flow hedges and the related hedge reserve was reclassified to the  
income statement.
A number of interest rate swaps were also cancelled in 2009. As these were originally designated as cash flow hedges, the related hedge reserve is being 
amortised over the life of the original forecast issuance (the hedge item). In 2012, £2.8m (201 1: £3.6m) was reclassified from the hedge reserve to the  
income statement and reflected in finance costs. 
23. Retirement benefit schemes
Defined contribution schemes
The Group manages a number of defined contribution pension arrangements. The total expense recognised in the income statement of £21. 1m  
(201 1: £24.0m) represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the schemes. £0.6m (201 1: £0.8m)  
was outstanding in respect of defined contribution schemes but not due for payment at 31 December 2012.
Defined benefit schemes
The Group operates a number of funded defined benefit schemes, the most significant being the Cobham Pension Plan (CPP).  The assets of all of these 
schemes are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees.  All defined benefit schemes have been closed to new members 
since 2003. 
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
94 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Actuarial valuations of the present value of the defined benefit obligations for the CPP are carried out on a triennial basis by qualified independent actuaries; 
the most recent valuation was as at 1 April 2012. Actuarial valuations of other schemes have been carried out at regular intervals as required by the applicable 
country regulations. The actuarial valuations were updated by qualified independent actuaries for accounting purposes to 31 December 2012. 
As part of the Group’s risk management strategy for defined benefit obligations, certain liabilities relating to past service of pensioner and deferred members 
of defined benefit schemes were subject to a buy-in arrangement on 14 December 201 1. Under the terms of this arrangement, the schemes impacted 
transferred assets to an insurance company in return for a qualifying insurance policy which provides annuity payments equal to the liabilities covered  
by the arrangement as they fall due. This eliminated the Group’s exposure to the interest, inflation and longevity risks associated with these liabilities.  
The insurance contract asset is measured at a value equal to the related liabilities. Contributions of £19.6m were payable into the schemes in 201 1 
representing the difference between the cost of this asset and the net obligations transferred. The Group continues to review its exposure to risks  
associated with pension obligations, including the potential purchase of further insurance policies. The purchase of insurance policies would have  
the effect of increasing the net liability recognised under IAS 19.
During the year the Group merged two of the smaller defined benefit pension plans into the Cobham Pension Plan in order to improve the efficiency  
of administration of the schemes and to realise additional benefits of scale.
There were no significant contributions outstanding at the end of 2012 or 201 1 for the defined benefit schemes. 
Following the disposal of the Engineering Consultancy Group business in 201 1, curtailment gains of £1.4m were recognised in the income statement in  
that year. The amount recognised in 201 1 in the income statement also included £12.5m relating to past service following changes to the rate of certain  
UK pension increases.
The principal assumptions used for the purpose of the actuarial valuations were as follows:
2012 2011
UK Schemes USA Scheme UK Schemes USA Scheme
Rate of increase in salary costs 3.47% 3.47% 3.62% 3.62%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment unless overridden by specific scheme rules 2.97% 2.97% 3.12% 3.12%
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.17% 2.97% 2.12% 3.12%
Discount rate 4.40% 4.40% 4.85% 4.85%
Inflation assumption 2.97% 2.97% 3.12% 3.12%
Expected return on scheme assets 4.84% 4.40% 5.12% 5.46%
The mortality assumptions used for the CPP are based upon actual recent mortality experience of members within the scheme and also allow for future 
mortality improvements. The mortality tables used to estimate life expectancy are known as ‘SAPS CMI 09’. In practical terms this is demonstrated in the  
table below:
Year of birth Year age 65 Further life expectancy
Male 1947 2012 22.6 years
Female 1947 2012 24.7 years
Male 1980 2045 25.8 years
Female 1980 2045 27.9 years
At 31 December 2012 it has been assumed that members will commute on average 20% (201 1: 20%) of their pension for cash at retirement. This implies  
a full take-up of the permitted 25% (201 1: 25%) commutation by approximately 80% (201 1: 80%) of eligible members on retirement.
 
95 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information A summary of the movements in the net liability and the amounts recognised in the income statement and other comprehensive income are as follows:
2012 2011
£m
Scheme 
assets
Defined 
benefit 
obligations Total
Scheme  
assets
Defined  
benefit 
obligations Total
Net liability at start of year 528.7 (599.9) (71.2) 510.8 (592.8) (82.0)
Amounts recognised in operating profit
Current service cost included in administrative expenses –(4.3) (4.3) –(4.2) (4.2)
Past service (cost)/credit included in administrative expenses –(0.3) (0.3) – 12.5 12.5
Gain on curtailment included in profit on divestment ––– –1.4 1.4
Amounts credited/(charged) to other finance income/costs
Expected return on pension scheme assets 26.6 – 26.6 32.7 – 32.7
Interest on pension scheme liabilities – (28.6) (28.6) – (31.5) (31.5)
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 12.8 – 12.8 (40.3) – (40.3)
Experience gains arising on scheme liabilities – 12.8 12.8 –1.8 1.8
Changes in assumptions underlying present value of scheme liabilities – (41.3) (41.3) –(2.1) (2.1)
Amounts included in cash flow statement
Employer contributions 20.0 – 20.0 20.9 – 20.9
Employer contributions related to buy-in arrangement ––– 19.6 – 19.6
Member contributions 2.8 (2.8) – 3.2 (3.2) –
NI rebates 0.6 (0.6) – 0.5 (0.5) –
Benefits paid (18.4) 18.4 – (18.9) 18.9 –
Other changes
Exchange differences (0.7) 0.8 0.1 0.2 (0.2) –
Net liability at end of year 572.4 (645.8) (73.4) 528.7 (599.9) (71.2)
Total employer contributions exceeded current service cost and past service cost or credit by £15.4m (201 1: £48.8m).
The present value of funded obligations relating to the US scheme is US$34.5m (201 1: US$30. 1m) and the fair value of scheme assets relating  
to the US scheme is US$21.3m (201 1: US$18.4m).
The sensitivity of scheme liabilities to changes in certain key assumptions is provided below:
 Increasing the discount rate by 0. 1% would decrease scheme liabilities by £10.7m.
 Increasing the inflation rate by 0. 1% would increase scheme liabilities by £6.6m.
 If each scheme member was expected to live for an additional year then scheme liabilities would increase by £15.5m.
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income since transition to IFRS is  
£182.5m loss (201 1: £166.8m loss). Of the actuarial losses recognised in the year for changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme  
liabilities, approximately £48m relates to the decrease in the discount rate mitigated by approximately £7m relating to the inflation assumptions. 
The actual return on scheme assets was £39.4m (201 1: loss £7 .6m). The Group expects to contribute £20.3m to its defined benefit pension schemes in 2013.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
96 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The fair value of major categories of scheme assets, and as a percentage of total scheme assets, are as follows:
2012 2011
£m % £m %
Equity instruments 217.5 38.0% 176.2 33.3%
Debt instruments 262.0 45.7% 259.6 49.1%
Property 42.7 7.5% 43.3 8.2%
Insurance contracts 40.1 7.0% 36.9 7.0%
Other assets 10.1 1.8% 12.7 2.4%
572.4 100.0% 528.7 100.0%
The expected rates of return on individual categories of scheme assets are determined by reference to relevant indices published by, for example, the 
London Stock Exchange. The overall expected rate of return is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance  
in the schemes’ investment portfolios.
The scheme assets do not include any of the Group’s own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
The history of the scheme for the current and previous four periods is as follows:
£m 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Present value of defined benefit obligations (645.8) (599.9) (592.8) (561.3) (458.4)
Fair value of scheme assets 572.4 528.7 510.8 446.1 407.2
Net liability (73.4) (71.2) (82.0) (115.2) (51.2)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 12.8 1.8 1.3 1.8 (5.5)
Experience adjustments on scheme assets 12.8 (40.3) 24.1 13.8 (49.2)
Other retirement benefit schemes
A number of the Group’s subsidiaries based in France contribute to a retirement indemnity scheme. The liabilities of the scheme were valued by an 
independent actuary as at 31 December 2012 at EUR4.3m and are recorded in these financial statements at £3.5m (201 1: £3.2m). These liabilities are included  
in other liabilities in note 19. Some retirement obligations relating to a subsidiary based in Germany have gross obligations of EUR2.2m (201 1: EUR2.2m). 
These obligations are covered by an insurance policy and therefore there is no net liability. 
The actuarial loss for these schemes in the year to 31 December 2012, recognised in OCI, was £0.5m (201 1: £nil). 
24. Financial risk management
The Group’s multinational operations and debt financing expose it to a variety of financial risks which include the effects of changes in foreign currency 
exchange rates, credit risk, liquidity risk and interest rates. The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects on 
the financial performance of the Group by using foreign currency financial instruments, debt and other instruments, including interest rate swaps. Other 
derivative financial instruments may be used from time to time to hedge other exposures such as inflation risks. The financial risk management policies 
agreed by the Board have not changed during the year and are summarised below. The Group does not trade in financial instruments or use complex 
derivative financial instruments.
Foreign currency risk
The Group, which is based in the UK and reports in sterling, has significant investment in overseas operations in the USA, with further investments including 
those in Australia and other European countries. As a result, the Group’s balance sheet can be affected by movements in these countries’ exchange rates. 
The Group’s policy is to reduce, or eliminate where practicable, both structural and transactional foreign exchange risk. All currency exposures are reviewed 
regularly and all significant foreign exchange transactions are approved by Cobham plc management. 
97 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information The carrying amounts of the Group’s total foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities, translated into sterling at the relevant 
year-end exchange rates, are as follows:
2012 2011
£m
Monetary 
 assets
Monetary 
liabilities
Monetary 
assets
Monetary
 liabilities
US dollars 214.2 (624.3) 235.5 (647.3)
Euros 87.8 (49.7) 100.9 (49.4)
Australian dollars 65.9 (72.8) 107 .8 (98.8)
Danish kroner 14.0 (92.6) 1.3 (3.6)
Foreign currency borrowings are used to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on the Group’s overseas net assets. The Group typically 
borrows US dollars to fund acquisitions in the USA and uses intercompany debt to create a natural economic hedge.
The following borrowings (included in monetary liabilities in the table above) and foreign exchange contracts match exposures arising from currency 
denominated net assets:
£m 2012 2011
US dollar borrowings 484.2 460.1
US dollar foreign exchange contracts 93.8 193.0
On consolidation, the net assets of overseas subsidiaries (which include monetary assets and liabilities shown in the tables above) are translated at closing 
exchange rates and exchange differences arising are accounted for in other comprehensive income and in the translation reserve (note 26). 
During 2012, the Group has Danish kroner borrowings and commitments under foreign exchange contracts which are used to fund the Danish kroner 
investment in Thrane & Thrane and net investment hedging has been applied. 
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk in the income statement where individual subsidiaries hold non-functional currency monetary assets and 
liabilities and when an operating unit makes sales and purchases in currencies other than its own functional currency. The Group undertakes a formal process 
to actively manage and mitigate this exposure through a combination of matching non-functional currency revenues and costs, matching non-functional 
currency monetary assets and liabilities and through the use of forward contracts. 
The sterling/US dollar exchange rate is the most important as far as the Group is concerned, particularly given the level of US dollars which non-US based 
subsidiaries expect to receive from their normal business activities, and the proportion of the Group based in the USA. In addition to the longer term 
borrowing structure, a number of financial instruments are used to manage the foreign exchange position, such as forward contracts. It is the Group’s 
current belief that the net dollar receipts by its subsidiaries will exceed the level of the outstanding commitment.
The following table details the forward foreign currency contracts for net sales of US dollars outstanding as at 31 December:
US$m amount Average US$: £ exchange rate
2012 2011 2012 2011
Expiring within one year 138.7 138.5 1.59 1.59
Expiring within one to two years 76.0 63.8 1.61 1.59
Expiring after two years 17.9 46.2 1.58 1.61
232.6 248.5 1.60 1.59
The latest expiry date of forward foreign currency contracts for sales of US dollars is December 2015.
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a weakening in sterling against the respective foreign currencies. The sensitivities below represent 
management’s assessment of the possible changes in foreign exchange rates, based on experience over the previous five years. The sensitivity analysis of 
the Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk at the reporting date has been determined based on the assumption that the change is effective throughout 
the financial year. The analysis assumes that all other variables, including interest rates, remain constant and includes the effect of derivative financial 
instruments. A positive number indicates an increase in profit after taxation and total equity.
2012 2011
£m Sensitivity Profit or loss Total equity Sensitivity Profit or loss Total equity
US dollars 16% (21.0) (21.0) 20% (28.6) (28.6)
Euros 13% (10.3) (10.3) 16% (18.0) (18.0)
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
98 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The exposure to movements in exchange rates arises due to outstanding non-functional currency financial instruments, receivables and payables  
at the year end, including borrowings.
In order to provide comparable information, sensitivity has also been assessed based on a 10% weakening in sterling against the respective foreign  
currency, as follows: 
2012 2011
£m Sensitivity Profit or loss Total equity Sensitivity Profit or loss Total equity
US dollars 10% (12.2) (12.2) 10% (12.7) (12.7)
Euros 10% (7.7) (7.7) 10% (10.5) (10.5)
Interest rate risk
The Group has various long and short-term borrowings, principally in US dollars, Australian dollars and Danish kroner at both fixed and floating rates  
of interest. The Group continually monitors its exposure to movements in interest rates in order to bring greater stability and certainty with respect  
to borrowing costs. Group policy is to assess borrowings with regard to fixed or variable rates of interest depending on prevailing market conditions  
and to use interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate risk. 
Borrowings are held under both fixed and floating rates as follows:
£m 2012 2011
Fixed rates 
Senior notes 220.9 313.0
Floating rates 
Bank loans and overdrafts 306.3 162.4
Senior notes 95.3 99.8
Loan notes 0.4 1.5
Other borrowings and finance leases 1.2 1.4
403.2 265.1
Total borrowings 624.1 578.1
All floating rate borrowings have regular repricing dates. Interest rate swaps which mitigate the exposure arising on floating rate debt are as follows,  
all are designated as cash flow hedges: 
Period of swap 2012 2011
Hedged item Fixed rate from to Currency value £m Currency value £m
US dollar loans 3.22% June 2010 June 2013 US$65.0m 40.0 US$65.0m 41.8
3.49% March 2008 March 2013 US$80.0m 49.2 US$80.0m 51.5
3.61% August 2008 August 2013 US$150.0m 92.3 US$150.0m 96.5
Australian dollar loans 6.30% May 2006 January 2020 AUS$66.2m 42.3 AUS$74.4m 49.1
6.40% January 2007 January 2020 AUS$12.5m 8.0 AUS$14.3m 9.4
231.8 248.3
The Group does not currently hold any interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedging instruments.
 
Surplus funds are placed on short-term fixed rate deposit and as such also give rise to interest rate exposure. However, as a result of the Group’s policy  
to manage interest rate risk, there was no material sensitivity to changes in interest rates at the year end. 
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a change of 1.0% in interest rates throughout the year, with all other variables, including foreign currency 
exchange rates, held constant. A positive number indicates an increase in profit after taxation and total equity where interest rates rise. A fall in interest rates 
would have the equal but opposite effect on the basis that all other variables remain constant. 
 
2012 2011
£m Profit or loss Total equity Profit or loss Total equity
Sterling 0.6 – 0.8 –
US dollars 0.4 0.6 0.2 2.5
Euros 0.2 – 0.3 –
99 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Liquidity risk
The Group has a positive cash flow from operating activities and where practicable the funds generated by operating companies are managed on a regional 
basis. For short-term working capital purposes in the UK, most operating companies utilise local bank facilities within an overall Group arrangement. In the US 
a central treasury function is maintained which all US subsidiaries use. These practices allow a balance to be maintained between continuity of funding, 
security and flexibility. 
As regards liquidity, the Group’s policy throughout the year has been to maintain a mix of short, medium and long-term borrowings with their lenders. 
Short-term flexibility is achieved by overdraft and revolving credit facilities. The table below summarises the remaining contractual maturity for the Group’s 
financial liabilities. The amounts shown are the contractual undiscounted cash flows which include interest, analysed by contractual maturity. The difference 
between the contractual cash flows and the carrying amount of these liabilities reflects the effects of interest not included in the carrying amount and 
discounting applied in assessing fair value. 
£m Within one year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years Over 5 years Total
Non-derivative financial liabilities 
At 31 December 2012
Trade and other payables
Payments received on account 68.6 3.6 4.7 2.7 0.1 0.2 79.9
Trade payables 104.8 0.2 0.1 – – – 105.1
Other taxes and social security 20.6 ––––– 20.6
Contingent and deferred consideration 2.5 14.3–––– 16.8
Other liabilities 36.8 0.5 1.2 0.7 0.7 1.9 41.8
233.3 18.6 6.0 3.4 0.8 2.1 264.2
Borrowings
Bank loans and overdrafts 306.7––––– 306.7
Senior notes 4.1 47.1 – 49.8 30.8 188.5 320.3
Other borrowings 1.0 0.5 0.1 – – – 1.6
311.8 47.6 0.1 49.8 30.8 188.5 628.6
Less interest (4.5)
Less discounting of finance leases –
624.1
At 31 December 201 1
Trade and other payables
Payments received on account 48.2 6.5 4.0 2.6 1.6 0.2 63.1
Trade payables 102.6 0.2 0.1 – – – 102.9
Other taxes and social security 15.2 ––––– 15.2
Contingent and deferred consideration 8.1 6.3 13.6 – – – 28.0
Other liabilities 29.0 0.6 1.2 0.5 0.7 2.2 34.2
203.1 13.6 18.9 3.1 2.3 2.4 243.4
Borrowings
Bank loans and overdrafts 114.5 48.3–––– 162.8
Senior notes 116.0 – 49.2 – 52.1 201.2 418.5
Other borrowings 1.4 0.8 0.6 0.1 – 0.1 3.0
231.9 49.1 49.8 0.1 52.1 201.3 584.3
Less interest (6.1)
Less discounting of finance leases (0.1)
578.1
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
10 0 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 £m Within one year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years Over 5 years Total
Derivative contracts
At 31 December 2012
Interest rate swaps
Gross cash outflows (4.3) (1.4) (1.0) (0.8) (0.5) (0.5) (8.5)
Gross cash inflows –––––– –
(8.5)
Foreign exchange derivatives
Gross cash outflows (120.2) (25.4) (15.4) – – – (161.0)
Gross cash inflows 117.9 24.2 14.2 – – – 156.3
(4.7)
Other derivatives and adjustment  
to fair value 3.4
(9.8)
At 31 December 201 1
Interest rate swaps
Gross cash outflows (5.9) (4.0) (0.8) (0.7) (0.5) (0.7) (12.6)
Gross cash inflows –––––– –
(12.6)
Foreign exchange derivatives
Gross cash outflows (214.7) (57.9) (42.7) (15.5) – – (330.8)
Gross cash inflows 206.6 54.5 40.3 13.8 – – 315.2
(15.6)
Other derivatives and adjustment  
to fair value (0.3)
(28.5)
To provide flexibility in the management of the Group’s liquidity, it is the Group’s policy to maintain undrawn committed borrowing facilities in various 
currencies. As shown in note 18, £89.3m was available to the Group at 31 December 2012 (201 1: £199.6m).
Credit risk
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances, cash and trade and other receivables.
The Group has a conservative policy towards the credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments with balances currently spread across a range 
of reputable financial institutions, such counterparties are banks with satisfactory credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies. The levels  
of credit risk are monitored through the Group’s ongoing risk management processes, which includes a regular review of the banks’ credit ratings. Risk in this 
area is limited further by setting a maximum level for deposits with any one counterparty. 
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s customer base being large and unrelated. Customers are 
typically large global companies or government agencies with long-term trading relationships. The Group also has in place procedures that require 
appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales are made. Existing customer accounts are monitored on an ongoing basis and appropriate 
action is taken where necessary to minimise any credit risk. The Directors therefore believe there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of 
normal provision for impaired receivables. 
Group management monitor the ageing of receivables which are more than one month overdue and debtor days on a regular basis. At 31 December 2012, 
6.4% (201 1: 6.5%) of gross trade receivables were overdue by one month or more. 
The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2012 is the fair value of each class of receivable as disclosed in note 15. Letters of credit are the only 
collateral held as security against trade receivables. These are obtained in a limited number of cases in accordance with good business practice and secure 
around £3.0m of receivables. 
Bank term balances totalling £7 .5m (201 1: £12.5m) have been pledged against the residual value of leased assets as detailed in note 16. Finance leases totalling 
£0.9m (201 1: £0.9m) are secured against the items of property, plant and equipment that the leases are financing. Group assets have not been pledged in 
respect of the Group’s primary borrowing facilities or other financial liabilities.
101 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information In the UK and the USA, the Group has master netting arrangements in respect of bank balances. In the normal course of business these bank accounts  
are settled on a net basis within each currency and as such are presented net in the financial statements. In the event of an automatic enforcement event 
the bank balances are automatically set off against each other to achieve a net position. 
Inflation risk
The Group’s exposure to inflation is considered to be a general business risk which is mitigated through normal commercial activity. A swap contract  
was entered into during 201 1 to manage the inherent inflation risk in one specific operational contract.
Capital risk management
Group policy is to maintain a strong capital base, defined as total equity, excluding non-controlling interests, totalling £1,053.8m at 31 December 2012  
(201 1: £1,018.6m), so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business. Within this overall policy,  
the Group seeks to maintain an optimum capital structure by a mixture of debt and retained earnings. Funding needs are reviewed periodically and also  
each time a significant acquisition or business divestment is made. A number of factors are considered which include the net debt/EBITDA ratio, future 
funding needs (usually potential acquisitions) and proposed dividend levels. Group banking arrangements are also considered; these include financial 
covenants which are based on adjusted IFRS results. This policy has been reviewed by the Board on a regular basis during the year and, given the  
current economic climate, continues to be considered appropriate.
Typically the Group will hold deposits in sterling and borrowings in foreign currencies to fund overseas operations. During the year, additional funding has 
been secured from commercial lenders and through private placements; new borrowings include amounts in euro, US dollars and Danish kroner. There have 
been no breaches of the terms of the Group banking arrangements which have been met with significant headroom and there have been no defaults during 
the current or prior year.
During 201 1, as part of the Group’s overall capital management policy as described above, £150.0m of capital was returned to shareholders through a share 
buy-back programme using proceeds from business divestments.
25. Share capital
£m Number of shares 2012 2011
Authorised
Ordinary Shares of par value 2.5 pence 1,479,200,000 37.0 37 .0
6% second cumulative Preference Shares of £1  20,000 – –
Issued and fully paid
Ordinary Shares of par value 2.5 pence 1,154,527,625 28.9 28.9
The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares which carry no right to fixed income, representing 99.9% of the total issued share capital. On a show of hands 
every member holding Ordinary Shares who is present in person or by a duly authorised representative has one vote and on a poll every member who is 
present in person or by proxy has one vote for every £1 in nominal value of the shares of which the member is the holder. No new shares have been issued 
during the current or prior year. 
At 31 December 2012, 87 ,699,405 (201 1: 79,979,615) Ordinary Shares were held in treasury. This includes 75,951,724 shares purchased during 201 1 under a 
share buy-back plan at a total cost of £151.0m and 1 1,747 ,681 (201 1: 4,027 ,891) shares held in the Cobham Employee Benefit Trust. At 31 December 2012,  
the market value of treasury shares was £193.6m (201 1: £146.7m), including shares with a market value of £25.9m (201 1: £7 .4m) held by the Cobham Employee 
Benefit Trust.
During the year ended 31 December 2012, treasury shares were used to satisfy awards and options under the Group’s PSP , BCP , ESOS and ShareSave schemes. 
The net cost of treasury shares after receipts from option exercises is deducted from retained earnings and total equity. 
In addition to the Ordinary Shares described above, 19,700 6% second cumulative Preference Shares have been issued which represent 0. 1% of total issued 
share capital. These are non-redeemable and are classified as borrowings with a value of £19,700.
The shareholders of the 6% second cumulative Preference Shares are entitled to receive a fixed cumulative preference dividend at the rate of 6% per annum 
in priority to the payment of dividends on the Ordinary Shares. In addition, on a return of assets on the liquidation or otherwise of the Company, the assets 
available for distribution are to be applied first in repaying to the holders of the 6% second cumulative Preference Shares the amounts paid up on their 
shares. On a show of hands, every member holding 6% second cumulative Preference Shares who is present in person has one vote and on a poll, every 
member has one vote for every £1 in nominal amount of the shares of which the member is the holder.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
10 2 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 26. Other reserves
£m Note Translation reserve Hedging reserve
Share  
options reserve
T otal  
other reserves
At 1 January 201 1 63.9 (18.4) 24.3 69.8
Foreign exchange differences on translation of overseas operations (2.4) – – (2.4)
Movements on cash flow hedges 22 0.2 (8.3) – (8.1)
Reclassification of fair value of cash flow hedges to income statement 22 –11.4 – 11.4
Reclassification to income statement on cancellation of cash flow hedge – 9.0 – 9.0
Release of hedge reserve 22 – 3.6 – 3.6
Transfer of translation reserve on settlement of cash flow hedge contracts 3.7 – – 3.7
Transfer of share options reserve on exercise – – (4.8) (4.8)
Share-based payments recognised in reserves 27 –– 6.1 6.1
Dividend equivalents paid on vesting of PSP and BCP awards – – (0.2) (0.2)
Tax effects (0.3) (3.0) (1.0) (4.3)
At 1 January 2012 65.1 (5.7) 24.4 83.8
Foreign exchange differences on translation of overseas operations (19.2) – – (19.2)
Reclassification of foreign exchange on divestment of overseas operation 29 (4.8) – – (4.8)
Movements on cash flow hedges 22 0.4 (3.5) – (3.1)
Reclassification of fair value of cash flow hedges to income statement 22 – 7.2 – 7.2
Release of hedge reserve – 2.8 – 2.8
Transfer of hedge reserve to retained earnings – (3.7) – (3.7)
Transfer of translation reserve on settlement of cash flow hedge contracts 0.3 (0.3) – –
Transfer of share options reserve on exercise –– (2.8) (2.8)
Share-based payments recognised in reserves 27 –– 6.8 6.8
Dividend equivalents paid on vesting of PSP and BCP awards –– (0.1) (0.1)
Tax effects (0.1) (3.1) 0.5 (2.7)
At 31 December 2012 41.7 (6.3) 28.8 64.2
 
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising on the results and financial position of subsidiaries whose functional currencies 
differ from the Group’s reporting currency. Foreign exchange movements arising on interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges are also included 
here and following the settlement of the financial instrument, any balances remaining are transferred to retained earnings.
The hedge reserve reflects movements in fair values on cash flow hedging derivatives as detailed in notes 22 and 24.
The share options reserve includes the cost of share options as assessed under IFRS 2 together with deferred tax provided under IAS 12 relating to 
share-based payments, where the calculated future tax benefit is in excess of the amount charged to date under IFRS 2. The appropriate proportion  
of the share options reserve is transferred to retained earnings following option exercise. 
103 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 27. Share-based payments
The total expense for share-based payments is as follows:
£m 2012 2011
Equity settled share-based payment schemes 6.8 6.1
Cash settled share-based payment schemes – (0.2)
Total share-based payment expense 6.8 5.9
Equity settled share-based payment schemes
The Group operates a number of incentive schemes for certain senior executives, further details of which can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report 
on pages 46 and 49: 
 The Cobham Performance Share Plan (PSP). 
 The Cobham Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS).
 The Cobham Bonus Co-investment Plan (BCP). 
The PSP scheme allows for annual grants of conditional shares which mainly vest 50% based on the Group’s three year Total Shareholder Return relative to 
that of a sector comparator group and 50% based on the growth of the Group’s underlying EPS over the same period. This scheme includes buy-out awards 
granted during the year to the Group’s Chief Executive Officer. 
The BCP scheme allows participants to defer up to 50% of their net earned annual performance bonus into Cobham shares in return for an opportunity  
to earn up to a 2:1 matching award of shares against the gross bonus invested, based on three year Economic Profit growth targets. 
Under the ESOS, options are granted at a price not less than the market value of the Group’s Ordinary Shares on, or shortly before, the date the options are 
granted. Exercise is conditional upon the Group’s underlying EPS growth over a three year period. The scheme also includes a ‘time-only’ section which is 
offered to participants based in the USA. This allows for options to be granted with 25% vesting on each annual anniversary conditional only on continued 
employment within the Group. 
The Cobham Savings Related Share Option Scheme (ShareSave) is an HMRC approved savings related share option plan which is open to all UK employees. 
Employees contribute to a monthly savings plan and after an agreed period of at least three years, employees have the option to use these savings plus 
interest to purchase the Group’s shares at 80% of the market price on the date of grant.
Details of the awards are as follows:
Number of awards (thousands of shares) PSP BCP ESOS ShareSave
At 1 January 201 1 5,693 1,082 21,212 7,513 
Awards granted 3,414 88 2,388 2,153 
Awards forfeited or cancelled by employee (1,386) (53) (2,052) (544)
Exercised (883)(541)(1,428)(1,597)
Expired – – (152) (233)
At 1 January 2012 6,838 576 19,969 7,292 
Awards granted 3,076 122 2,738 1,263 
Awards forfeited or cancelled by employee (1,629) (255) (1,984) (395)
Exercised (490) (93) (2,828) (1,404)
Expired (1) – (197) (258)
At 31 December 2012 7,794 350 17,698 6,498 
Exercisable at 31 December 2012 212 – 9,992 145 
Exercisable at 31 December 201 1 2 – 8,779 64 
The weighted average remaining contractual life in years of awards is as follows:
Outstanding at 31 December 2012 1.28 1.16 6.25 2.45
Outstanding at 31 December 201 1 2.00 0.80 6.80 2.58
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
10 4 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The number of BCP awards shown in the table above reflects matching shares granted against the net bonus invested and will be grossed up for tax at  
the time of vesting. The rules of the BCP scheme allow for a matched award based on the gross amount of the bonus, dependent upon satisfaction of the 
performance conditions. The exact amount of the entitlement will be ascertained upon vesting of the awards. For the award vesting in 2012, the operation 
of the gross up mechanism resulted in an additional 62,023 (201 1: 348,267) matching shares being awarded to the holders of the 93,025 (201 1: 541,452) 
invested shares exercised in the year. 
Under the ESOS and ShareSave schemes, exercises were made at various times throughout the year. The weighted average share price in that period  
was £2. 165 (201 1: £2.024).  
All awards under the PSP and BCP schemes have a nil exercise price. The weighted average exercise prices of awards under the ESOS and ShareSave  
schemes are as follows:
£ ESOS ShareSave
At 1 January 201 1 1.997 1.619 
Awards granted 2.332 1.480 
Awards forfeited or cancelled by employee 2.115 1.732 
Exercised 1.787 1.440 
Expired 1.963 1.680 
At 1 January 2012 2.040 1.606 
Awards granted 2.184 1.750 
Awards forfeited or cancelled by employee 2.092 1.627 
Exercised 1.901 1.545 
Expired 2.219 1.662 
At 31 December 2012 2.077 1.644 
Exercisable at 31 December 2012 1.899 1.628 
Exercisable at 31 December 201 1 1.897 1.619 
The range of exercise prices for ESOS and ShareSave awards are as follows: 
Outstanding at 31 December 2012
Lowest exercise price 1.186 1.076 
Highest exercise price 2.473 1.790 
Outstanding at 31 December 201 1
Lowest exercise price 0.912 1.076 
Highest exercise price 2.473 1.790 
Details of awards granted or commencing during the current and comparative year are as follows: 
£ PSP BCP ESOS ShareSave
During 2012:
Effective date of grant or commencement date 26 March, 14 September 12 March 26 March 1 February
Average fair value at date of grant 1.735 0.994 0.347 0.361
During 201 1:
Effective date of grant or commencement date 14 March, 11 August and 31 December 10 March 17 March 1 February
Average fair value at date of grant 1.655 1.470 0.361 0.658
10 5 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information The fair values in the table above were calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model (modified by a Monte Carlo simulation for PSP awards)  
to determine the likely impact of market related performance conditions. The inputs into the model were as follows:
PSP BCP ESOS ShareSave
2012 awards:
Weighted average share price £2.250 £2.206 £2.245 £1.737
Weighted average exercise price nil nil £2.184 £1.480
Expected volatility 31% n/a 29% 28%-30%
Expected life 2.8 years 3 years 3.8 years 3-7 years
Expected employee cancellation rate 2.2% nil 7.1% 3.6%
Risk free rate 1.3% n/a 0.9% 3.0%
Expected dividend yield n/a n/a 3.6% 3.8%
201 1 awards:
Weighted average share price £2.151 £2.292 £2.185 £2.355
Weighted average exercise price nil nil £2.332 £1.790
Expected volatility 32% n/a 29% 25%-31%
Expected life 2.8 years 3 years 3.9 years 3-7 years
Expected employee cancellation rate 1.5% nil 5.7% 2.9%
Risk free rate 1.9% n/a 2.0% 2.5%
Expected dividend yield n/a n/a 2.6% 2.4%
Expected volatility was determined through the assessment of the historical volatility over a period consistent with the expected life of the award. The 
expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and 
behavioural considerations. The expected employee cancellation rate is based on an assessment of historic rates of voluntary cancellations of contracts  
by employees. 
Most participants of the PSP scheme receive the benefit of dividend payments and therefore dividend yields are not taken into consideration in the 
valuation model.
Cash settled share-based payment schemes
Share appreciation rights (SARs) were issued in 2006 and 2007 to a number of senior executives which required the Group to pay the intrinsic value of  
the award to the employee at the date of exercise. These awards vested in 2009 and the majority expired in November 201 1, with a small number expiring  
in February 2012. 
Details of the awards are as follows:
Number of awards (thousands of shares) 2012 2011
At 1 January 5 223 
Exercised during the year – (43)
Expired (5) (175)
At 31 December – 5
Exercisable at 31 December – 5 
Fair value of each outstanding award – £0.133
Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards (in years) – 0.10
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
10 6 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 28. Business combinations
During the year the issued share capital of Thrane & Thrane A/S was acquired through market and private purchases and a public offer. On 10 April, the Group 
held 25.6% of the issued share capital and has included its share of post-tax results of the business in the income statement alongside the Group’s share of 
post-tax results of joint ventures. Control was achieved on 8 June 2012 when, through a combination of shares purchased and unconditional and irrevocable 
agreements with shareholders, Cobham controlled 96.9% of the issued share capital, and the business has been consolidated as a subsidiary from that date. 
Subsequently, during 2012, the remaining share capital has been acquired.
In accordance with IFRS 3 the revaluation gains on previously held equity interests in Thrane & Thrane that arise on gaining control of the company have 
been recognised in the income statement. This business is now part of the Aerospace and Security division.
The fair value of Thrane & Thrane can be reconciled as follows:
£m
Cash consideration including compulsory purchase obligations 279.6
Share of profit during the period the investment was held as an associated undertaking 0.4
Revaluation gains arising on equity interests on transfer of control 1.0
Fair value at date control achieved 281.0
A summary of the fair values of the net assets acquired are as follows: 
£m
Non-current assets 147.3
Current assets 65.4
Current liabilities (41.8)
Non-current liabilities (40.4)
Net assets acquired 130.5
Goodwill 150.5
Total value of business acquired 281.0
All intangible assets were recognised at their respective fair values. The residual excess of the total cost over the fair value of the net assets acquired is 
recognised as goodwill in the financial statements. Goodwill represents the premium paid in anticipation of future economic benefits from assets that are 
not capable of being separately identified and separately recognised, such as the value of the workforce. Goodwill is not anticipated to be deductible for  
tax purposes.
Acquired receivables are included in current assets in the table above at their fair values and relate to trade and other receivables which are considered  
to be recoverable in full.
The results since the date of acquisition are as follows:
£m
Third party revenue 70.3
Operating profit 8.8
Loss after tax (8.6)
The loss after tax since the date of acquisition includes the impacts of amortisation of the intangible assets which are recognised as a result of the business 
combination and are included within the results of the acquired business for management reporting purposes. 
If this acquisition had taken effect on 1 January 2012, it is estimated that Group total revenues would have been £1,808.5m and profit after tax £181.3m.  
This information is not necessarily indicative of the results had the operations been acquired at the start of the period, nor of future results of the  
combined operations.
107 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information The net cash flows resulting from business combinations are as follows:
£m
Cash consideration paid for the business combination completed in the current year 279.6
Net overdraft acquired with the business combination completed in the current year 2.9
Consideration relating to a business combination completed in 201 1 0.2
282.7
In addition to the above, £8.4m was received in respect of the exercise of share warrants within the acquired business. M&A related costs with respect  
to the acquisition, recognised within administrative expenses during the year, were £5.4m.
29. Business divestments and similar income
£m 2012 2011
Net profit on business divestments before tax 7.8 25.0
Additional profit on divestment of M/A-COM Technology Solutions Inc 4.1 9.1
Additional profit on other divestments in prior years 3.3 –
Revaluation gain arising on equity interests in Thrane & Thrane 1.0 –
Adjustments to businesses held for sale (13.3) (7.0)
2.9 27 .1
The divestment of the emergency locator beacons businesses, part of Commercial Systems, was completed on 6 July 2012. Cash consideration was 
US$73.0m with up to US$5.0m additionally payable contingent upon future events. The assets and liabilities of these businesses were shown as held  
for sale at 30 June 2012. 
During 201 1 the Analytic Solutions business, Cobham MAL Limited and the Engineering Consultancy Group part of Cobham Technical Solutions  
were divested.
The profit on the divestments in 2012, which has been excluded from trading profit, can be analysed as follows:
£m
Gross consideration 48.0
Net assets at date of divestment (40.1)
Expenses of sale (4.9)
Foreign exchange adjustments 4.8
Net profit on divestments before tax 7.8
Tax charge on net profit on divestments (1.2)
Net profit on divestments after tax 6.6
The net cash impact of the divestments is as follows:
£m
Cash consideration 48.5
Expenses of sale (4.6)
43.9
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
10 8 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The net assets divested during the year were as follows:
£m
At date of 
divestment
At 31 December  
2011
Attributable goodwill 22.5 22.3
Other intangible assets 0.2 0.2
Property, plant and equipment 1.6 1.6
Inventories 11.3 9.8
Trade and other receivables 6.2 5.3
Trade and other payables including provisions (3.0) (2.9)
Deferred tax 1.3 0.6
Net assets 40.1 36.9
30. Operating lease arrangements
At the balance sheet date the Group had outstanding commitments for minimum lease payments due under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
£m 2012 2011
Within one year 26.1 27 .7
Between one and two years 23.1 24.2
Between two and three years 21.6 21.8
Between three and four years 18.7 19.0
Between four and five years 17.3 15.9
After five years 88.0 97 .3
194.8 205.9
Operating lease payments include rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office and operational properties, and operational aircraft used in its service 
businesses.
31. Contingent liabilities and commitments
At 31 December 2012, the Company and the Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and contractual performance guarantees and other matters 
arising in the ordinary course of business. Where it is expected that a material liability will arise in respect of these matters, appropriate provision is made 
within the Group consolidated financial statements. As the conditions of these guarantees are currently being met, no obligating event is foreseeable  
and therefore no provision has been made at the year end.
A number of performance guarantees and letters of credit have been provided in connection with the FSTA project. No provision was made at 31 December 
2012 or 201 1 in connection with these guarantees.
The Company and various of its subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to various legal proceedings and claims and management do not anticipate that 
the outcome of these, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Group’s financial position.
The nature of much of the contracting work done by the Group means that there are reasonably frequent contractual issues, variations and renegotiations 
that arise in the ordinary course of business. The Group has previously identified one, more significant, contractual breach dating back some years. The 
contract was in respect of goods provided into a geographic market which represents only a small amount of revenue for the Group. Although there have 
been no developments during the year, the circumstances surrounding this remain under review and the outcome still cannot be estimated. Resolution  
may take some time. No further information is disclosed as it could be prejudicial.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment of £1 7 .2m (201 1: £3.9m). The Company has  
also committed, in connection with the FSTA project, to invest £6. 1m in equity share capital and to provide additional funding of £18.2m in the form  
of redeemable loan notes in March 2013.
10 9 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 32. Related party transactions
Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below:
£m 2012 2011
Transactions between Group entities and joint ventures during the year
Sales of goods 0.3 1.2
Purchases of goods 0.4 –
Dividends received (7.5) (8.1)
Loans to joint ventures 40.0 8.5
Loan repayments and interest received from joint ventures (3.1) (0.5)
Amounts owed by joint ventures at the year end 45.4 8.4
Sales of goods to related parties were made at the Group’s usual list prices for sales to non-related parties.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given to or received from related parties. No expense  
has been recognised in the period for bad or doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
Compensation of key management personnel
The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management during the year was as follows:
£m 2012 2011
Remuneration 5.8 6.3
Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.4
Share-based payments 3.8 3.0
10.2 9.7
The remuneration of Directors and key management personnel is determined by the Remuneration Committee having regard to the performance  
of individuals and market trends.
The Directors of Cobham plc had no material transactions with the Company during the year, other than as a result of service agreements. Details  
of Directors’ remuneration are disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 44 to 55. 
33. Events after the balance sheet date
There are no adjusting post balance sheet events.
As detailed on pages 9 and 1 1 and as previously announced, as part of the Excellence in Delivery programme the Group is taking further actions to make 
significant site and headcount rationalisations in 2013 to 2015 due to the expected volume decline mostly in the US defence/security market.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
11 0 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 34. Subsidiaries
All subsidiary undertakings have been included in the Group consolidation. The undertakings held at 31 December 2012 which, in the opinion  
of the Directors, principally affected the results for the year or the net assets of the Group were:
Operating segment
Strategic Business Unit  
and principal activities
Name of 
undertaking
Place of incorporation 
 (or registration)  
and operation
Cobham Aerospace 
and Security
Cobham Aerospace Communications
Design and manufacture of navigation, communication  
and airborne networking products and systems  
for commercial, business and military aircraft
Air Précision SAS France
Chelton Avionics, Inc USA
TEAM SA France
Cobham Antenna Systems
Design and manufacture of communication systems  
and antennas
Chelton Limited England
Chelton, Inc USA
Cobham Advanced Composites Limited England
Cobham Composite Products Inc USA
Cobham CTS Limited England
Continental Microwave & Tool Co, Inc USA
Trivec-Avant Corporation USA
Cobham Satcom
Development, manufacture and support of satellite  
and radio communication terminals and earth stations  
for land, marine and airborne applications
Sea Tel, Inc USA
Thrane & Thrane A/S Denmark
Cobham Tactical Communications and Surveillance
Provision of specialist communications, security and 
surveillance products including integrated systems  
and solutions
Cobham Defence Communications Limited England
Cobham TCS Limited England
DTC Communications, Inc USA
Spectronic Denmark A/S Denmark
Cobham Defence Systems Cobham Defence Electronics
Design and manufacture of active microwave  
components, assemblies and subsystems for the  
aerospace and defence industries
Cobham Electronic Systems Inc USA
Sensor & Antenna Systems, Lansdale, Inc USA
REMEC Defense & Space, Inc USA
Cobham Mission Systems Cobham Life Support 
Life support and personal survival equipment systems 
including oxygen systems for aviators and astronauts,  
crew restraints, flotation gear and crew and cargo  
release mechanisms
Carleton Life Support Systems, Inc* USA
Carleton Technologies, Inc* USA
Conax Florida Corporation USA
Cobham Mission Equipment
Provision of air-to-air refuelling systems, wing-tip  
to wing-tip mission systems for fast jets, transport aircraft  
and rotorcraft, and remote controlled robots and fully 
equipped bomb disposal vehicles for homeland security  
and military applications
Carleton Life Support Systems, Inc* USA
Carleton Technologies, Inc* USA
Flight Refuelling Limited** England
telerob Gesellschaft für 
Fernhantierungstechnik mbH
Germany
111 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Operating segment
Strategic Business Unit  
and principal activities
Name of 
undertaking
Place of incorporation 
 (or registration)  
and operation
Cobham Aviation Services Cobham Aviation Services
Provision of specialist aviation solutions to defence, 
government and major commercial customers under  
long term performance based contracts
Asia Pacific Airlines (PNG) Pty Limited Papua New 
Guinea
FR Aviation Limited England
Jet Systems Pty Limited Australia
National Jet Express Pty Limited Australia
National Jet Systems Pty Limited Australia
Surveillance Australia Pty Limited Australia
The Group owns 100% of the share capital of all subsidiaries with the exception of TEAM SA (98.7% owned). 
*    Carleton Life Support Systems, Inc and Carleton Technologies, Inc both operate across the Cobham Life Support and the Cobham Mission  
Equipment SBUs.
** Issued shares in Flight Refuelling Limited are held by Cobham plc. Otherwise shares are held by, or by a nominee for, a subsidiary of Cobham plc. 
A full list of subsidiary companies is annexed to the Company’s annual return to the Registrar of Companies.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
11 2 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where  
the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: 
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, 
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches  
not visited by us; or 
 the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or 
 certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are  
not made; or 
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require  
for our audit. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the group financial statements  
of Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2012. 
Stuart Watson (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
6 March 2013 
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Cobham plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the parent company 
accounting policies, the parent company balance sheet, the reconciliation  
of movements in shareholders’ funds and the related notes. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable 
law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities set out 
on page 60, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent 
company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law  
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards 
for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the 
company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of 
the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving 
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or  
to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it 
may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness  
of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial 
and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the parent company financial statements: 
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs  
as at 31 December 2012;
 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom  
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the  
Companies Act 2006. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
 the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
 the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year for  
which the parent company financial statements are prepared is  
consistent with the parent company financial statements. 
11 3 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Cobham plc Accounting convention
These financial statements have been prepared on the going concern  
basis, under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation  
of derivative contracts which are held at fair value, and in accordance  
with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards in  
the United Kingdom (UK GAAP). 
The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied,  
are as set out below.
Dividends 
Dividends payable are recognised as a liability in the period in which they  
are fully authorised. Dividend income is recognised when the shareholders’ 
right to receive payment has been established.
Pensions
The Company operates and contributes to a multi-employer defined benefit 
pension scheme. Contributions and pension costs are apportioned across 
the scheme as a whole and assessed in accordance with the advice of 
qualified actuaries. The scheme is closed to new members and has a high 
proportion of deferred and pensioner members from businesses that no 
longer participate in the scheme. The Company is therefore not able to 
identify its share of underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme on a 
reasonable and consistent basis and in accordance with the multi-employer 
exemption contained in FRS 1 7 Retirement Benefits, the scheme has been 
accounted for as if it was a defined contribution scheme. The charge to  
the profit and loss account therefore reflects payments for the year. 
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the profit  
and loss account in the period the contributions are payable. 
The Company also makes contributions for certain employees to individual 
personal pension and stakeholder schemes. Contributions are charged to 
the profit and loss account in the year to which they relate.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have 
originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions  
or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right 
to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
A net deferred tax asset is recognised as recoverable when, on the basis of 
all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there 
will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of underlying 
timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the 
periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on 
tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the 
balance sheet date. Deferred tax has not been discounted.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets, comprising software, are stated at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment losses. They are amortised on a straight-line 
basis over their estimated useful lives which range from three to five years.
Tangible fixed assets
Fixed assets are initially recognised at cost and depreciated on a straight-line 
basis to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives 
which range from three to six years. 
Investments in Group and other undertakings
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less any provision 
for impairment in value and include the fair value at the date of grant of 
share options awarded to employees of subsidiary undertakings, net of 
amounts recovered as management charges.
Other investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment  
in value.
Provisions
A provision is recognised when the Company has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that 
settlement will be required of an amount that can be reliably estimated.
Share capital
Ordinary share capital is classified as equity. Financial liabilities and equity 
instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual 
agreements entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that 
evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after  
deducting all of its liabilities.
Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on  
a specific date or at the option of the preference shareholders or if  
dividend payments are not discretionary. Dividends on preference share 
capital classified as liabilities are recognised in the profit and loss account  
as interest expense. 
Treasury shares
When ordinary share capital recognised as equity is acquired by the 
Company, the shares are held as treasury shares. The consideration paid, 
including commissions and taxes, is deducted from retained earnings  
and total shareholders’ equity.
 
Foreign currencies
The functional currency of the Company is sterling. Transactions in 
currencies other than the local currency are translated at the exchange  
rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in non-functional currencies are retranslated at the exchange 
rate ruling at the balance sheet date. Investments in subsidiary undertakings 
denominated in foreign currencies which are financed by foreign currency 
borrowings are translated at the year end exchange rate. Investments 
denominated in foreign currencies not financed by foreign currency 
borrowings are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of 
the original transaction.
All exchange differences arising are taken to the profit and loss account. 
In order to manage the Company’s exposure to certain foreign exchange 
risks, the Company enters into forward contracts and options which are 
accounted for as derivative financial instruments. 
  
11 4 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Parent company accounting policies Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 
The Company’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes 
in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Company uses 
foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swap contracts to reduce these 
exposures and does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative 
purposes. Other derivative financial instruments may be used from time to 
time to hedge other exposures such as inflation risks. 
The Company has documented its risk management objectives and strategy 
for undertaking various hedge transactions and utilises hedge accounting 
principles in relation to interest rate swaps. These are designated as cash 
flow hedges which mitigate the Company’s exposure to changes in interest 
rates arising on floating rate debt. 
Foreign exchange contracts entered into to mitigate foreign exchange 
impacts of trading in non-functional currencies and inflation swaps entered 
into to mitigate inflation risks are not accounted for using hedge accounting. 
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the 
date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured 
at their fair value. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss 
depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument 
and if so the nature of the item being hedged.
Where hedge accounting is applied, the relationship between hedging 
instruments and hedged items is documented at the inception of the 
transaction. The Company also documents its assessment, both at hedge 
inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives used in 
hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash  
flows (or fair values if appropriate) of hedged items.
Where interest rate swaps are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, 
the effective portion of changes in fair values of derivatives that are 
designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in reserves. The 
gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in 
the profit and loss account. Amounts accumulated in reserves are recycled 
to the profit and loss account in the periods when the hedged item affects 
profit or loss.
When a cash flow hedging derivative expires or is sold, or when a hedge no 
longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss 
existing in reserves at that time remains in equity and is recognised when 
the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the profit and loss 
account. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net 
cumulative gain or loss recognised in reserves is immediately transferred  
to the profit and loss account in that period.
The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a current asset or liability 
except when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than  
12 months. 
Where hedge accounting is not applied, the movements in fair value  
of the derivative instruments are included in the profit and loss account.  
The fair value of such derivatives is classified as a current or non-current 
asset or liability dependent upon the maturity of the contracts. 
 
Other financial instruments 
Amounts receivable from and owed to subsidiaries are recognised at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method and are reduced  
by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds 
received, net of direct issue costs and subsequently held at amortised cost. 
Interest is accounted for on an accruals basis in the profit and loss account 
using the effective interest rate method and is added to the carrying 
amount of the instrument to the extent that the expenses are not settled 
in the period in which they arise.
Share-based payments
For grants made to employees of Cobham plc under the Group’s share-
based payment schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value of options 
awarded as at the time of grant are charged to the profit and loss account 
over the vesting period. The fair value of options awarded to employees of 
subsidiary undertakings, net of amounts recovered as management charges, 
is recognised as a capital contribution and recorded in investments.
The valuation of the options utilises a methodology based on the  
Black-Scholes model, modified where required to allow for the impact  
of market related performance criteria and taking into account all non-
vesting conditions.
11 5 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information £m Note 2012 2011
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 5 0.2 0.3
Tangible assets 6 0.2 0.3
Investments in Group and other undertakings 4 779.1 777.5
Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments 11 14.2 14.4
793.7 792.5
Current assets
Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments 11 5.8 5.3
Debtors 7 1,107.2 1,065.9
Cash at bank and in hand 7.1 72.8
1,120.1 1,144.0
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 8 (567.3) (610.4)
Net current assets 552.8 533.6
Total assets less current liabilities 1,346.5 1,326.1
Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year 9 (731.3) (773.9)
Provisions for liabilities 10 (6.6) (6.6)
Net assets 608.6 545.6
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 12 28.9 28.9
Share premium account 13 126.6 126.6
Special reserve 13 43.6 43.6
Other reserves 13 16.9 13.6
Profit and loss account 13 392.6 332.9
Equity shareholders’ funds 608.6 545.6
The financial statements on pages 1 14 to 124 were approved by a duly appointed and authorised committee of the Board on 6 March 2013 and signed on  
its behalf by:
R Murphy     W Tucker
Directors
11 6 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Parent company balance sheet (under UK GAAP)
As at 31 December 2012 £m Note 2012 2011
Profit for the financial year 164.3 179.9
Dividends 1 (92.5) (69.4)
Retained profit for the financial year 71.8 110.5
Treasury shares 13 (18.7) (159.5)
Movements in hedging reserve 13 (0.6) 12.7
Reclassification of hedge reserve 13 3.8 –
Credit in respect of share-based payments 13 6.8 6.1
Dividend equivalents paid on vesting of PSP and BCP awards 13 (0.1) (0.2)
Net addition to/(reduction in) shareholders’ funds 63.0 (30.4)
Shareholders’ funds at 1 January 545.6 576.0
Shareholders’ funds at 31 December 608.6 545.6
Profit for the financial year
In accordance with the concession granted under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of Cobham plc has not been 
separately presented in these financial statements. 
117 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
For the year ended 31 December 2012 1. Dividends 
The following dividends on Ordinary Shares were authorised and paid during the year:
£m 2012 2011
Final dividend of 6.2 pence per share for 201 1 (2010: 4.372 pence)  66.7  49.8 
Interim dividend of 2.4 pence per share for 2012 (201 1: 1.8 pence)  25.8 19.6
92.5 69.4
In addition to the above, the Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2012 of 6.4 pence per share which 
will absorb an estimated £68.3m of shareholders’ funds. This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been 
included as a liability in these financial statements. If authorised, it will be paid on 31 May 2013 to shareholders who are on the register of members as at  
3 May 2013. The total dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2012 will therefore be 8.8 pence per share (201 1: 8.0 pence). The total 
amount payable in respect of 2012 will be £94. 1m. 
2. Directors’ emoluments and pension costs
Disclosures in respect of Directors’ emoluments can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 44 to 55 of the Group financial statements.
Defined benefit pension schemes
The Company operates and participates in the Cobham Pension Plan (CPP) and the Cobham Executives Pension Plan (CEPP). The pension schemes are of  
the defined benefit type and assets are held in separate trustee administered funds. The funds are valued every three years by a professionally qualified 
independent actuary and the rates of contribution payable are determined by the actuary. The latest effective dates of the actuarial assessment of the  
CPP and CEPP were 1 April 2012 and 1 April 2010 respectively. The assessments were updated to 31 December 2012 at which date the total net liabilities of 
the schemes were assessed to be £65.4m. The Directors of the companies involved in the Group schemes will continue to monitor the pension deficits and 
take advice from independent actuaries as appropriate. 
The schemes have been accounted for as if they were defined contribution schemes and the charge to the profit and loss account therefore reflects 
payments for the year.
Contributions to the Group schemes for 2012 amounted to £0.3m (201 1: £0.3m) of normal funding and an additional contribution of £nil (201 1: £1 7 .5m) 
related to buy-in arrangements. No contributions were outstanding at the end of 2012 or 201 1.
Defined contribution pension schemes
The Company also operates and participates in the Cobham plc money purchase pension arrangements. The assets of the schemes are held separately from 
those of the Company in independently administered funds. The pension costs charged represents contributions payable by the Company to the funds and 
amounted to £0.7m (201 1: £0.6m). No contributions were outstanding at the end of 2012 or 201 1.
3. Share-based payments
Employees of Cobham plc participate in the following equity settled share-based payment schemes which are operated by the Group for certain  
senior executives:
 The Cobham Performance Share Plan (PSP).
 The Cobham Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS).
 The Cobham Bonus Co-investment Plan (BCP).
Employees also participate in the Cobham Savings Related Share Option Scheme (ShareSave) operated by the Group which is open to all UK employees. 
The Company recognised total expenses of £2.9m (201 1: £3.0m) related to equity settled share-based payment transactions during the year (excluding 
national insurance). As shown in note 4, investments in Group and other undertakings have been adjusted to reflect the value of options granted to 
employees of the Company’s subsidiaries, less amounts recharged to date. 
Further details of these schemes can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 47 to 49 and in the Group financial statements on  
pages 104 to 106.
11 8 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the parent company financial statements Details of the awards held by the Company’s employees are as follows:
Number of share options PSP BCP ESOS ShareSave
At 1 January 201 1 3,558,196 943,234 6,621,748 325,965 
Awards granted 1,489,038 77,918 15,192 134,499 
Exercised (559,467) (415,764) (75,734) (43,757)
Awards forfeited (546,075) (52,968) (176,662) (29,543)
Employees transferred (to)/from other Group companies – – (118,843) 11,587 
At 1 January 2012 3,941,692 552,420 6,265,701 398,751 
Awards granted 1,549,762 53,740 16,807 57,959 
Exercised (287,153) (93,025) (350,281) (76,579)
Awards forfeited (890,960) (255,393) (498,154) (12,789)
Expired awards – – – (6,272)
Employees transferred (to)/from other Group companies (48,487) – 32,577 (46,866)
At 31 December 2012 4,264,854 257,742 5,466,650 314,204 
Exercisable at 31 December 2012 70,796 – 3,939,867 – 
Exercisable at 31 December 201 1 – – 3,134,925 1,726 
The weighted average remaining contractual life in years of awards is as follows:
Outstanding at 31 December 2012 1.30 1.80 5.19 2.57
Outstanding at 31 December 201 1 1.16 0.90 6.31 2.63
The number of BCP awards shown in the table above reflects matching shares granted against the net bonus invested and will be grossed up for tax  
at the time of vesting. The rules of the BCP scheme allow for a matched award based on the gross amount of the bonus, dependent upon satisfaction  
of the performance conditions. The exact amount of the entitlement will be ascertained upon vesting of the awards. For the award vesting in 2012,  
the operation of the gross up mechanism resulted in an additional 62,023 (201 1: 277 , 1 72) matching shares being awarded to the holders of the 93,025  
(201 1: 415,764) invested shares exercised in the year. 
Under the ESOS and ShareSave schemes, exercises were made at various times throughout the year. The weighted average share price in that period  
was £2. 165 (201 1: £2.024). 
All awards under the PSP and BCP schemes have a nil exercise price. The weighted average exercise prices of awards under the ESOS and ShareSave  
schemes are as follows:
£ ESOS ShareSave
At 1 January 201 1 1.975 1.650 
Awards granted 2.332 1.480 
Awards forfeited 2.114 1.729 
Exercised 2.015 1.561 
Employees transferred (to)/from other Group companies 2.050 1.780 
At 1 January 2012 1.970 1.600 
Awards granted 2.184 1.750 
Exercised 1.841 1.512 
Awards forfeited 1.938 1.691 
Expired awards – 1.743 
Employees transferred (to)/from other Group companies 1.006 1.700 
At 31 December 2012 1.976 1.628 
Exercisable at 31 December 2012 1.829 – 
Exercisable at 31 December 201 1 1.845 1.790 
11 9 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information The range of exercise prices for ESOS and ShareSave awards are as follows:
£ ESOS ShareSave
Outstanding at 31 December 2012
Lowest exercise price 1.186 1.076 
Highest exercise price 2.473 1.790 
Outstanding at 31 December 201 1
Lowest exercise price 1.337 1.076 
Highest exercise price 2.473 1.790 
Details of awards granted or commencing during the current and comparative year are as follows: 
£ PSP BCP ESOS ShareSave
During 2012:
Effective date of grant or commencement date 26 March 12 March 26 March 1 February
Average fair value at date of grant 1.642 0.994 0.399 0.361
During 201 1:
Effective date of grant or commencement date 14 March, 11 August and 31 December 10 March 17 March 1 February
Average fair value at date of grant 1.655 1.470 0.361 0.658
Details, including methods and assumptions used in the calculation of fair values, of the awards granted during the current and comparative year are  
as shown in note 27 to the Group financial statements.
4. Investments in Group and other undertakings
£m Shares Options Total
Cost and net book amount
At 1 January 2012 764.7 12.8 777.5
Options granted to employees of Group undertakings net of recoveries –1.6 1.6
At 31 December 2012 764.7 14.4 779.1
The Company has minority shareholdings in three companies in connection with the Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft project. The total amount invested  
in 2008 was £44,000 and this is held as a trade investment. The Company has committed to making further investments as detailed in note 14.
In the opinion of the directors the value of investments in subsidiary undertakings is not less than the aggregate amount at which they are shown above.
A list of significant subsidiaries is provided in note 34 to the Group financial statements. The market capitalisation of the Group as a whole is given  
in the Group financial record on page 125.
12 0 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the parent company financial statements continued 5. Intangible assets
£m Software
Cost 
At 1 January and 31 December 2012 0.8
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2012 0.5
Charge for the year 0.1
At 31 December 2012 0.6
Net book amount
At 31 December 2012 0.2
At 31 December 201 1 0.3
6. Tangible fixed assets
£m
Plant, machinery, 
fixtures and fittings
Cost 
At 1 January 2012 1.2
Disposals (0.2)
At 31 December 2012 1.0
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2012 0.9
Charge for the year 0.1
Disposals (0.2)
At 31 December 2012 0.8
Net book amount
At 31 December 2012 0.2
At 31 December 201 1 0.3
7. Debtors
£m 2012 2011
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 1,089.6 1,036.8
Corporation tax receivable 4.4 –
Deferred tax 5.4 25.8
Prepayments and accrued income 7.8 3.3
1,107.2 1,065.9
Interest is charged on amounts owed by Group undertakings at rates varying between 2.6% and 9%. These amounts are unsecured and are repayable  
on demand. 
The net deferred tax asset can be analysed as follows:
£m 2012 2011
Derivative financial instruments 2.2 14.4
Share-based payments 1.9 7.6
Other timing differences 1.3 3.8
5.4 25.8
12 1 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Movements in the net deferred tax asset are as follows:
£m Total
At 1 January 2012 25.8
Charge to reserves (17.2)
Charge to profit and loss account (3.2)
At 31 December 2012 5.4
The deferred tax asset is considered recoverable on the basis that sufficient taxable profits will be available to utilise any tax losses that may arise.
8. Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year
£m Note 2012 2011
Bank overdrafts 116.6 230.2
Bank loans 292.3 100.3
Senior notes – 110.3
Total borrowings 408.9 440.8
Trade creditors 3.2 0.5
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 115.5 99.6
Derivative financial instruments 11 10.0 14.5
Corporation tax payable – 21.2
Other taxes and social security 1.3 1.8
Accruals and deferred income 28.4 32.0
567.3 610.4
Details of the Company’s principal borrowing facilities are disclosed in note 18 to the Group financial statements.
Interest is charged on amounts owed to Group undertakings at rates varying between 0.31% and 8%. These amounts are unsecured and are repayable  
on demand. 
9. Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year
£m Note 2012 2011
Bank loans – 48.3
Senior notes 316.2 302.5
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 403.5 406.3
Derivative financial instruments 11 11.6 16.8
731.3 773.9
Amounts owed to Group undertakings consist of frozen loans which are unsecured, interest free and not repayable within one year. 
Senior notes falling due after more than one year mature as follows:
£m 2012 2011
Between one and two years 47.1 –
Between two and five years 80.6 101.4
After five years 188.5 201.1
316.2 302.5
Amounts due after five years mature in 2018, 2019 and 2020.
12 2 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the parent company financial statements continued 10. Provisions for liabilities
Other provisions of £6.6m (201 1: £6.6m) relate to warranties given on the disposal of the Fluid and Air group in 2005. All amounts have been determined 
based on the Directors’ current estimates of likely outcomes and the timing of any claims is uncertain. 
11. Derivative financial instruments
The fair values of derivative financial instruments are as follows:
£m
Interest rate swaps 
– cash flow hedges
Foreign exchange 
derivatives Inflation swap Total
Fixed assets –11.4 2.8 14.2
Current assets –5.3 0.5 5.8
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (3.5) (6.0) (0.5) (10.0)
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year (4.8) (4.0) (2.8) (11.6)
At 31 December 2012 (8.3) 6.7 – (1.6)
Fixed assets –12.7 1.7 14.4
Current assets –5.3 –5.3
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (5.8) (8.7) – (14.5)
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year (6.6) (8.5) (1.7) (16.8)
At 31 December 201 1 (12.4) 0.8 – (11.6)
12. Called up share capital
£m 2012 2011
Allotted, issued and fully paid
Equity
1, 154,527 ,625 (201 1: 1, 154,527 ,625) 2.5 pence Ordinary Shares 28.9 28.9
Non-equity
19,700 (201 1: 19,700) 6% second cumulative Preference Shares of £1 – –
The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares which carry no right to fixed income, representing 99.9% of the total issued share capital. On a show of hands 
every member holding Ordinary Shares who is present in person or by a duly authorised representative has one vote and on a poll every member who is 
present in person or by proxy has one vote for every £1 in nominal value of the shares of which the member is the holder.
No Ordinary Shares were issued during the year to 31 December 2012.
As at 31 December 2012, 87 ,699,405 (201 1: 79,979,615) Ordinary Shares were held in treasury. This includes 75,951,724 shares purchased during 201 1 under  
a share buy-back plan at a total cost of £151.0m and 1 1,747 ,681 (201 1: 4,027 ,891) shares held in the Cobham Employee Benefit Trust. At 31 December 2012,  
the market value of treasury shares was £193.6m (201 1: £146.7m), including shares with a market value of £25.9m (201 1: £7 .4m) held by the Cobham  
Employee Benefit Trust.
In addition to the Ordinary Shares described above, 19,700 6% second cumulative Preference Shares have been issued which represent 0. 1% of total  
issued share capital. These are non-redeemable and are classified as creditors with a value of £19,700.
The shareholders of the 6% second cumulative Preference Shares are entitled to receive a fixed cumulative preference dividend at the rate of 6% per annum 
in priority to the payment of dividends on the Ordinary Shares. In addition, on a return of assets on the liquidation or otherwise of the Company, the assets 
available for distribution are to be applied first in repaying to the holders of the 6% second cumulative Preference Shares the amounts paid up on their 
shares. On a show of hands, every member holding 6% second cumulative Preference Shares who is present in person has one vote and on a poll, every 
member has one vote for every £1 in nominal amount of the shares of which the member is the holder.
12 3 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 13. Reserves
Other reserves
£m
Share  
premium  
account
Special  
reserve
Hedging  
reserve
Share  
options  
reserve
Profit  
and loss 
 account
At 1 January 2012 126.6 43.6 (5.7) 19.3 332.9
Profit for the financial year –– – – 164.3
Dividends –– – – (92.5)
Purchase of treasury shares –– – – (18.7)
Movement in fair value of hedge accounted derivatives –– (3.5) – –
Reclassifications to profit and loss account –– 6.0 – 3.8
Tax effect of hedging reserve movements –– (3.1) – –
Share-based payments recognised in reserves –– – 6.8 –
Dividend equivalents paid on vesting of PSP and BCP awards –– – (0.1) –
Transfer of share options reserve on exercise – – – (2.8) 2.8
At 31 December 2012 126.6 43.6 (6.3) 23.2 392.6
The impact of foreign exchange movement to the profit for the financial year is a £0.4m loss (201 1: £0.4m loss).
The profit and loss account includes the purchase of Ordinary Shares by the Cobham Employee Benefit Trust in connection with the PSP , BCP , ESOS and 
ShareSave plans described in note 3, and the allocation of shares upon vesting of share awards and the exercise of options. Unallocated shares are held  
as treasury shares as described in note 12. During the year, 12,598, 162 (201 1: 5,767 ,010) shares were purchased and 4,878,372 (201 1: 4,796,286) shares were 
allocated to employees. £26.3m (201 1: £14.3m) was paid for these shares during the year and £7 .5m (201 1: £6.2m) was received following the exercise of 
share options. 
The special reserve was created in 1996, with the sanction of the High Court, against which goodwill arising on subsequent acquisitions may be charged.
The share options reserve relates to provisions made in accordance with FRS 20 for shares allocated to the Company’s employees under the Group’s share 
option schemes. Where share options which gave rise to charges under FRS 20 have been exercised, the appropriate proportion of the share options reserve 
is transferred to the profit and loss account in equity.
14. Contingent liabilities and commitments
The Company has contingent liabilities in respect of bank and contractual performance guarantees and other matters arising in the ordinary course  
of business entered into, for, or on behalf of, certain Group undertakings. 
As the conditions of the above guarantees are currently being met, no obligating event is foreseeable and therefore no contingent liability provision has 
been made at the year end.
The Company has committed, in connection with the FSTA project, to invest £6. 1m in equity share capital and to provide additional funding of £18.2m  
in the form of redeemable loan notes in March 2013. In addition, a number of performance guarantees and letters of credit have been provided to secure 
the funding of this project. No provision was made at 31 December 2012 or 201 1 in connection with these guarantees.
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 December 2012 (201 1: £nil).
15. Related party transactions
The Directors of Cobham plc had no material transactions with the Company during the year, other than as a result of service agreements as disclosed  
in note 32 to the Group financial statements. Details of the Directors’ remuneration are disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
Exemption has been taken under FRS 8 (revised) from disclosing related party transactions with wholly owned group companies. The only transactions with 
non-wholly owned subsidiaries relate to the receipt of management and brand charges totalling £0.6m (201 1: £0.6m) from TEAM SA which is 98.7% owned. 
No amounts were outstanding at the current or prior year end.
12 4 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the parent company financial statements continued £m 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Revenue 1,466.5 1,880.4 1,902.6 1,854.4 1,749.4
Underlying profit before taxation 243.8 295.3 306.1 327.9 302.2
Profit on continuing operations before taxation 120.7 244.9 189.3 234.3 206.0
Tax on continuing operations (28.1) (59.0) (36.5) (46.3) (32.6)
Profit on continuing operations after taxation 92.6 185.9 152.8 188.0 173.4
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations 2.9 – – – –
Profit after taxation for the year 95.5 185.9 152.8 188.0 173.4
Net assets employed
Intangible assets 1,211.8 1,063.0 1,048.4 917.6 1,102.1
Property, plant and equipment (including investment properties) 304.1 329.5 350.9 329.8 315.5
Investments 16.9 17.4 17.2 16.1 15.8
Other non-current assets 31.9 69.0 31.2 36.3 60.3
Current assets 994.9 963.2 1,123.2 983.7 877.9
2,559.6 2,442.1 2,570.9 2,283.5 2,371.6
Current liabilities (1,342.7) (903.7) (827.8) (749.0) (822.5)
Non-current liabilities excluding retirement benefit obligations (316.9) (474.9) (584.9) (444.2) (421.3)
Net assets excluding retirement benefit obligations 900.0 1,063.5 1,158.2 1,090.3 1,127.8
Retirement benefit obligations (51.2) (115.2) (82.0) (71.2) (73.4)
Net assets including retirement benefit obligations 848.8 948.3 1,076.2 1,019.1 1,054.4
Financed by
Ordinary share capital 28.5 28.6 28.9 28.9 28.9
Reserves 819.7 919.4 1,046.9 989.7 1,024.9
Total equity attributable to the owners of the parent 848.2 948.0 1,075.8 1,018.6 1,053.8
Non-controlling interests in equity 0.6 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6
Total equity 848.8 948.3 1,076.2 1,019.1 1,054.4
Net debt (641.3) (412.6) (326.1) (232.5) (359.9)
Operating cash flow 260.5 293.2 271.4 337.1 339.3
Operating cash conversion 106% 89% 79% 95% 104%
pence
Dividend paid per Ordinary Share 4.63 5.09 5.60 6.17 8.60
Earnings per Ordinary Share – underlying 15.42 18.80 19.68 22.05 22.63
Earnings per Ordinary Share – basic 8.13 16.26 13.27 16.80 16.13
Earnings per Ordinary Share – diluted 8.08 16.17 13.20 16.76 16.08
Net assets per Ordinary Share 74.5 82.7 93.2 88.3 91.3
£m
Market capitalisation as at 31 December 2,343 2,883 2,349 2,117 2,549
12 5 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Group financial record Registrars 
Enquiries concerning shareholdings or dividends should, in the first instance, 
be addressed to the Company’s registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, 
Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA (telephone: 0871 384 2163* 
or +44 (0)121 415 7047 if calling from overseas). Shareholders should 
promptly notify the registrars of any change of address or other particulars. 
The registrars provide a range of shareholders’ services online. The portfolio 
service provides access to information on investments including balance 
movements, indicative share prices and information on recent dividends, and 
also enables address and mandate details to be amended online. For further 
information and practical help on transferring shares or updating your details, 
please visit www.shareview.co.uk. The share dealing service enables shares 
to be sold by UK shareholders by telephone, post or over the internet.  
For telephone sales please call 0845 603 7037 between 8:30am and 4:30pm.  
For postal sales please send your completed documentation to the address 
above. For internet sales please visit www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)
The registrars also offer an ISA for Cobham shareholders. Further information 
may be obtained by visiting www.shareview.co.uk, or telephone 0845 300 
0430* (or +44 (0) 121 415 0105 if calling from overseas).
You should bear in mind that investments, their value and the income they 
provide can go down as well as up and you might not get back what you 
originally invested.
Capital gains tax
For the information of shareholders who held Cobham plc Ordinary Shares 
on 31 March 1982, the market value, adjusted for capitalisation and rights 
issues, of the Company’s Ordinary Shares on that date for capital gains tax 
purposes, unadjusted for the share sub-division of July 2005, was 86.02 pence.
Financial calendar
AGM 25 April 2013
Final dividend – x-div date 1 May 2013
Final dividend – record date 3 May 2013
Final dividend 31 May 2013
Interim results 8 August 2013
Interim dividend – x-div date 9 October 2013
Interim dividend – record date 11 October 2013
Interim dividend 8 November 2013
Registered Office
Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, England BH21 2BJ
Tel: +44 (0)1202 882020
Fax: +44 (0)1202 840523
Internet: www.cobham.com
Registered Number in England: 30470
*  Calls to these numbers cost 8 pence per minute, plus network charges. Lines 
are open from 8:30am to 5:30pm, Monday to Friday.
Analysis of shareholders
Analysis of ordinary shareholders on the register at 31 December 2012:
Size of holding
Number of 
registered holders
Percentage of 
registered holders
Number of 
Ordinary Shares held
Percentage of 
Ordinary Shares
Up to 1,000 1,651 29.38 822,338 0.08
1,001–10,000 2,799 49.80 10,090,456 0.93
10,001–50,000 676 12.03 14,095,740 1.31
50,001–250,000 226 4.02 24,971,719 2.31
250,001–1,000,000 136 2.42 72,679,713 6.74
1,000,001 and above 132 2.35 955,915,935 88.63
T otal 5,620 100.00 1,078,575,901 100.00
Source: Equiniti Limited
At 31 December 2012, there were 5,620 ordinary shareholders on the register compared with 5,941 at 31 December 201 1.
12 6 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Shareholder information Acronym Full Name Description
A330 MRTT Airbus A330 Multi-Role  
Tanker Transport
A multi-role aircraft with air-to-air refuelling and passenger or cargo transport capabilities.
AARGM Advanced Anti-Radiation  
Guided Missile
A supersonic, medium-range, air-launched tactical missile compatible with US and allied  
strike aircraft and designed to home in on electronic transmissions from radar installations.
AEGIS BMD Aegis Ballistic Missile Defence The sea-based component of the US Missile Defense Agency’s system for missile defence.
AMRAAM Advanced Medium-Range 
Air-to-Air Missile
A new generation of air-to-air missile with an all-weather, beyond-visual-range capability.
Apache Boeing AH-64 Apache An advanced multi-role combat/attack helicopter with over 1,800 delivered to twelve  
armed forces around the world, including the US Army.
C- 1 30 Lockheed Martin C-130 Hercules A multi-role aircraft with air-to-air refuelling, cargo transport, and special mission capabilities.
CH-47 Boeing CH-47 Chinook A multi-mission, heavy-lift transport helicopter.
ERP Enterprise Resource Planning A software system which integrates all business processes including, manufacturing, finance 
and accounting, human resources, sales and marketing, purchasing and distribution, and 
inventory and warehouse into one central cohesive repository. It allows businesses to run 
more efficiently, with real time access to data across many business functions.
F-# USAF designated fighter aircraft Designation given by the US Air Force to aircraft designed for air-to-air combat or for multiple 
roles, including ground support missions.
FSTA Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft A UK Private Finance Initiative funded project to replace the UK’s air-to-air refuelling  
(AAR) Fleets, and elements of the Air Transport work currently undertaken  
by RAF VC10 and TriStar fleets.
Global Xpress Inmarsat Global Xpress A satellite service, scheduled to begin in 2013, which will be the world's first to offer global 
mobile broadband coverage. Global Xpress will provide increased data speeds and bandwidth 
to customers in the government, maritime and aeronautical sectors.
Hawk BAE Systems Hawk advanced  
jet trainer
A versatile jet trainer aircraft with a fully integrated training system.
IED Improvised Explosive Device Homemade bombs thought to be the weapon of choice for terrorists due to their availability 
and destructiveness.
KC - 390 Embraer KC-390 Refuelling Tanker A medium-lift military transport and tanker aircraft currently being developed by Embraer. 
Production is scheduled to commence in 2015.
KC -46 Boeing KC-46 Refuelling Tanker A refuelling tanker, currently being developed for the US Air Force to replace its ageing fleet  
of KC-135 Stratotankers. The KC-46, with initial flights scheduled for 2014, offers improved 
cargo and passenger capability.
Patriot Patriot anti-air missile system A surface-to-air missile system used for aircraft and ballistic missile defence.
SATCOM Satellite Communication Enables voice and data communications such as telephone calls, TV pictures or internet 
connections, using an orbiting satellite to transfer data around the earth.
SEWIP Surface Electronic Warfare 
Improvement Programme
An upgrade programme to a family of passive and active shipboard electronic  
warfare systems.
SM-# Raytheon Standard Missile Family An air and ballistic missile defence family of missiles. 
SwiftBroadband Inmarsat SwiftBroadband A service that provides voice and high-speed data simultaneously on-board an aircraft  
for key cockpit and cabin applications. These include in-flight telephony, Voice over IP ,  
text messaging, email and internet.
UAV/UAS Unmanned Aerial Vehicle/
Unmanned Aerial System
Unmanned aircraft that generally carry cameras, sensors, communications equipment or 
other payloads. They are currently used in reconnaissance and intelligence gathering roles 
with more challenging roles envisioned, including combat missions.
V-22 Bell/Boeing V-22 A multi-mission tiltrotor, vertical takeoff and landing aircraft manufactured by Bell Boeing,  
a team of Bell Helicopter and Boeing, that is currently in service with the US Marines and  
the US Air Force Special Operations Command. 
WGS Wideband Global Satellite A constellation of satellites providing worldwide communication coverage. The WGS  
system is expected to consist of ten satellites, eight US funded, and two funded via 
international partnerships.
12 7 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information
Glossary www.cobham.com
Our website provides further information including 
shareholder services and governance, details on 
our products and services, corporate responsibility 
and sustainability and more.
Investor information and share price performance
www.cobhaminvestors.com
Product and service offerings
www.cobham.com/products-and-services
Corporate responsibility and sustainability
www.cobhamsustainability.com
12 8 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Find more online  Further financial definitions
The following notes apply throughout the Annual Report and Accounts:
All numbers referring to ‘core’ businesses exclude Analytic Solutions,  
which was divested in November 201 1 and Commercial Systems which  
was substantially divested in July 2012.
To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group has included 
within its published statements trading profit and underlying earnings results. 
Trading profit has been defined as operating profit from continuing 
operations excluding the impacts of certain M&A related costs and business 
restructuring costs as detailed below. Also excluded are changes in the 
marking to market of non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments, 
impairments of intangible assets and items deemed by the Directors to be  
of an exceptional nature. 
Underlying earnings are defined as trading profit less net underlying finance 
costs, which excludes the unwinding of acquisition related discounting, and 
after deducting taxation and non-controlling interests.
M&A related costs excluded from trading profit and underlying earnings 
include the amortisation of intangible assets recognised on business 
combinations and the writing off of the pre-acquisition profit element  
of inventory written up on acquisition. M&A related costs also include  
other direct costs associated with business combinations, adjustments  
to contingent consideration related to previously acquired businesses  
and direct costs from terminated divestments.
Business restructuring costs comprise exceptional items associated with  
the restructuring of the Group’s portfolio. It also includes the costs of 
re-engineering operations as part of EiD including the costs of integrating 
sites into principal locations and the additional streamlining under the two 
year extension of the EiD programme to the end of 2015. 
A reconciliation of operating profit and profit before taxation to the 
respective underlying numbers is shown on page 26.
Operating cash flow is defined as cash generated from operations after  
cash flows from the purchase or disposal of property, plant, equipment  
and intangible assets. Free cash flow is operating cash flow after net  
interest, taxation, dividends received from joint ventures and the cash  
cost of business restructuring. 
Net debt is defined as the net of cash and cash equivalents less  
borrowings at the balance sheet date. 
A Group-wide brand charge of up to 1% is charged to the Divisions  
from Head Office. The allocation of 201 1 comparative profit between  
the Divisions and Head Office has been restated accordingly.
KPI Definitions
Designed and produced by Addison www.addison.co.uk
Printed by Park Communications on FSC 
® 
certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral 
®
 company  
and its Environmental Management System is certified 
to ISO14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95%  
of press chemicals are recycled for further use and,  
on average 99% of any waste associated with 
this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Amadeus coated 50 silk,  
a paper containing 50% recycled fibre (25% post 
consumer and 25% pre consumer) and 50% virgin fibre 
sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC 
®
 certified 
forests. The pulp used in this product is bleached using 
an elemental chlorine free (ECF) process.
When you have finished with this report, please pass it 
on to other interested parties or remove the cover and 
dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
Core businesses’ organic revenue growth Revenue growth in core businesses stated at constant translation exchange rates, excluding  
the incremental effect of acquisitions and disposals.
Underlying EPS growth at constant  
translation exchange rates 
The year on year increase of the underlying profit after taxation stated at constant translation 
exchange rates divided by the average number of Ordinary Shares.
Operating cash conversion Operating cash flow as a percentage of trading profit, excluding profit from joint ventures.
Core businesses’ PV investment Private Venture or company funded Research and Development (R&D) excluding Aviation Services, 
where there is no R&D activity.
Staff safety – major accident incident rate The number of accidents resulting in more than 3 days absence per 100,000 employees.
Voluntary staff turnover The number of voluntary leavers divided by the average number of employees over the period, 
excluding employees who became redundant, were dismissed, or retired. 
129 Cobham plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Definitions www.cobham.com Cobham plc
The most important thing we build is trust
Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, BH21 2BJ, England
T: +44 (0)1202 882020
F: +44 (0)1202 840523
