 Cobham plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
The most important thing we build is trust
www.cobham.com Cobham plc
The most important thing we build is trust
Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, BH21 2BJ, England
T: +44 (0)1202 882020
F: +44 (0)1202 840523
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 3 www.cobham.com Cobham protects lives and livelihoods with its 
differentiated technology and know-how, operating  
with a deep insight to customer needs and agility.  
The Group offers an innovative range of technologies 
and services to solve challenging problems across 
commercial, defence and security markets, from  
deep space to the depths of the ocean. 
It has market leading positions in air-to-air refuelling; 
aviation services; audio, video and data communications, 
including satellite communications; defence electronics; 
life support; and mission equipment.
The most important thing Cobham builds is trust.
Front cover image
Cobham’s Distributed Antenna Systems (DAS)  
technology and wireless solutions for the public  
safety and cellular markets ensure that buildings  
and critical infrastructure have a fail-safe public  
safety communications system of the highest  
standard. The Burj Khalifa, Dubai, is one of the  
many pieces of infrastructure globally that  
benefit from Cobham’s DAS technology.
Inside front cover image
Cobham provides governments globally with fixed  
and rotary wing services, including helicopter training, 
search and rescue, logistics and emergency  
medical services.
www.cobham.com
Our website provides further information including shareholder  
services and governance, details of our products and services,  
corporate responsibility and sustainability and more.
Investor information and share price performance
www.cobhaminvestors.com
Products and service offerings
www.cobham.com/products-and-services
Corporate responsibility and sustainability
www.cobhamsustainability.com
Find More Online
Designed and produced by: 
Addison Group 
www.addison-group.net
Printed by:  
Park Communications on  
FSC
®
 certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company  
and its Environmental Management 
System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable  
oil based, 95% of press chemicals are 
recycled for further use and, on 
average, 99% of any waste associated 
with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on  
Amadeus coated 50 silk, a paper 
containing 50% recycled fibre  
(25% post consumer and 25%  
pre consumer) and 50% virgin  
fibre sourced from well managed,  
responsible, FSC
®
 certified forests.  
The pulp used in this product is 
bleached using an elemental  
chlorine free (ECF) process.
When you have finished with  
this report, please pass it on to  
other interested parties or  
remove the cover and dispose  
of it in your recycled paper waste. Strategic Report
Group at a Glance  2
What we Do  4
Chairman’s Statement 6
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement 8
Our Markets 10
Our Strategy and Key Performance Indicators 12
Aerospace and Security 14
Defence Systems 16
Mission Systems 18
Aviation Services 20
Financial Review 22
Principal Risks 28
Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability 32
Corporate Governance
Board of Directors 36
Corporate Governance Report 38
Directors’ Remuneration Report 48
Directors’ Report 64
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 67
Compliance with the UK Corporate  
Governance Code 68
Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report 70
Consolidated Income Statement 74
Consolidated Statement of  
Comprehensive Income 75
Consolidated Balance Sheet 76
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 78
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 79
Notes to the Group Financial Statements 80
Parent Company Independent Auditors’ Report 125
Parent Company Financial Statements 127
Other Information
Group Financial Record 136
Shareholder Information 137
Glossary 138
Definitions 140
Find More Online 141
•	Group revenue increased by 2%, with acquisitions 
trading ahead of plan
•	Strong growth in commercial markets offset by 
continued weakness in defence/security markets 
resulted in 4% Group organic* revenue decline
•	Further progress in bringing more balance  
to the portfolio, with commercial 35% (2012: 31%) 
of Group revenue, and good progress with  
strategic objectives
•	Incremental savings in Excellence in Delivery well 
ahead of plan, with site integrations being accelerated
•	Group’s PV investment* increased to 6.2% (2012: 
5.3%) of revenue, with focus on growth markets
•	Recommended full year dividend increase of 10%, 
continuing the Group’s long standing, progressive 
dividend policy
Dividend
9.68p
(2012: 8.80p)
Total revenue
£1 ,790m
(2012: £1,749m)
Earnings per Ordinary Share – underlying
*
21.6p
(2012: 22.5p)
Earnings per Ordinary Share – basic
10.7p
(2012: 16.0p)
*For definitions, please refer to page 140.
The Annual Report and Accounts contains certain 
forward looking statements with regard to the 
operations, performance and financial condition of 
the Group. By their nature, these statements involve 
uncertainty since future events and circumstances 
can cause results to differ from those anticipated. 
Nothing contained in this Annual Report and 
Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
You can view this Annual Report and Accounts 
online at www.cobhaminvestors.com
1 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.cobham.com
Highlights of the Year
Contents Aerospace and Security 42%
Defence Systems 17%
Mission Systems 20%
Aviation Services 21%
Aerospace and Security 44%
Defence Systems 15%
Mission Systems 25%
Aviation Services 16%
Cobham operates from 14 principal manufacturing locations,  
with nine in the USA, three in the UK and two in continental 
Europe, as well as satellite locations and sales offices across  
the world that provide a permanent presence in faster growth 
markets. In addition, Aviation Services operates from airport  
bases in Australia, the UK and elsewhere in the world.
The Group leverages its 
innovative technology,  
know-how and understanding 
of customer needs to build and 
maintain leading positions in 
the second and third tiers of  
the global defence/security  
and commercial aerospace,  
marine and land markets.
Provides aircraft and in-building communication equipment,  
law enforcement and national security monitoring solutions,  
and satellite communication equipment for land, sea and  
air applications.
Operating locations
United States, United Kingdom, Denmark, France, South Africa, 
Finland and Sweden
Revenue
£744m
(2012: £697m)
Revenue
£309m
(2012: £323m)
£1,790m £318m
Trading profit
£132m
(2012: £149m)
Trading profit
£47 m
(2012: £45m)
Provides critical technology for network centric operations, 
moving information around the digital battlefield with 
customised and off-the-shelf solutions for people and  
systems to communicate on land, sea and in the air.
Operating locations
United States and Mexico
See page 14 See page 16
Divisional percentages for revenue and trading profit exclude non-core activities, head office results and eliminations:  
see note 4 on page 90
2 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group at a Glance
The Group in 2013 Revenue Trading profit
Aerospace and Security (CAS) Defence Systems (CDS) US defence/security 37%
Non US defence/security 28%
Commercial 35%
Markets
USA 45% Australia 14%
UK 13% Asia 7%
Other EU 16% RoW 5%
Geography
Revenue
£358m
(2012: £373m)
Revenue
£365m
(2012: £327m)
Trading profit
£74m
(2012: £81m)
Trading profit
£48m
(2012: £38m)
Provides safety and survival systems for extreme environments, 
nose-to-tail refuelling systems and wing-tip to wing-tip mission 
systems for fast jets, transport aircraft and rotorcraft, and 
provides remote controlled robots and fully equipped bomb 
disposal vehicles for homeland security and military applications.
Operating locations
United States, United Kingdom and Germany
Delivers outsourced aviation services for military and civil customers 
worldwide through military training, special mission flight operations, 
outsourced commercial aviation and aircraft engineering. 
Operating locations
Australia and United Kingdom
See page 18 See page 20
3 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
www.cobham.com
Rebalancing the portfolio for sustainable organic revenue growth
Mission Systems (CMS) Aviation Services (CAvS)  
Leading positions 
in our markets
Programme management 
and operational excellence
Investment in high 
value-add technology 
and know-how
Leverage of 
existing technology, 
products and services 
into new markets
Understanding 
of and response 
to customer 
needs
1
4 3
2
Our technology and know-how 
based business model enables  
us to consistently deliver  
strong trading margins,  
long term growth and 
consistently high operating  
cash flow conversion.
Investment in differentiated and specialist technologies contributes 
to our market leading positions and strong trading margins.  
The combination of our margins and our relatively low capital 
requirements enables us to generate consistently good levels of cash.
Trading margin
17 .7%
(2012: 19.0%)
Free cash flow  
(after restructuring)
£155m
(2012: £241m)
4 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
What we Do Tier 1
Tier 2
Tier 3
System of Systems
Platforms
Platform Systems & 
Signal Processing
Circuits
Components
Subsystems
The delivery of Cobham’s strategy depends on the right skills and capabilities 
being in place in the business. Cobham has increased its investment significantly 
in learning and development to further build the essential skills and capabilities 
that are critical to the delivery of future growth. 
See page 8 for more information.
Private Venture (PV or company 
funded research and development 
– R&D) investment in the year 
increased to 6.2% (2012: 5.3%)  
of revenue. This is consistent  
with the previously announced 
plans to increase technology 
investment, closely aligning  
this to growth markets. 
Total R&D investment, including 
customer funded projects, was up 
by 19% to £186m (2012: £156m) 
primarily due to the ongoing 
significant funded development 
activity on aerial refuelling 
programmes, which is expected 
to increase in 2014. 
PV investment
£88m
(2012: £75m)
Total R&D investment
£186m
(2012: £156m)
Cobham in action
Cobham’s products are often 
smaller, lighter and use less power 
than competing technologies. 
This means that cost savings  
and operational benefits are 
generated for customers, together 
with a reduced impact on the 
environment through reduced 
fuel and energy consumption. 
See page 9 for more information.
Cobham leverages its technology 
into new or adjacent commercial 
end markets, where there is strong 
customer demand. This is helping 
it to bring more balance to its 
portfolio and will enable it to grow 
revenue through business cycles. 
During the year, Cobham  
has made progress towards  
this objective by growing its 
commercial revenue organically 
and through acquisitions.
Revenue from 
commercial markets
35%
(2012: 31%)
Cobham in action
The new Solo7 ultra-miniature 
high quality wireless video 
encoder is based on defence/
security technology and is now 
being sold into target broadcast 
markets. The product has already 
been used at the 2014 Sochi 
Winter Olympics.
See page 6 for more information.
Programme management is  
a core competency focus for 
Cobham, which enables it to  
meet customer expectations and 
deliver growth. Considerable work 
has been undertaken to enhance 
functional excellence in project 
and programme management 
across the Group’s diverse range 
of activities.
The transformational Excellence  
in Delivery (EiD) programme has 
continued to deliver further 
improvements to operational 
performance and customer delivery 
in Cobham’s principal locations.
Improvement in direct 
labour productivity 
since 2010 
40%
Cobham in action
EiD is reducing Cobham’s physical 
footprint and thereby reducing its 
CO
2
 emissions. Cobham continues 
to target reduced impacts on the 
environment from its products, 
facilities and supply chain.
CO
2
 emissions
86.6MWh/£m turnover
(2012: 87.2MWh/£m turnover)
See pages 9 and 35  
for more information.
Cobham operates in specialist 
technology markets at the tier  
two (subsystems) and tier three 
(components) segments, supplying 
to a blue chip customer base. Its 
market leading positions enable 
Cobham to optimise its return on 
investment, so it can continue to 
invest in technology and in skills 
and capabilities as well as pay an 
increasing dividend to shareholders.
Cobham in action
Cobham has built on its strong 
position in the commercial slip  
ring market for wind turbines  
by commencing additional 
operations at its Prescott, Arizona 
manufacturing facility. This facility is 
starting to supply US customers with 
products made in-country, which is 
leading to further market penetration 
of the wind turbine market. 
See page 10 for more information.
1 
Leading positions  
in our markets
Investing in skills and expertise
2 
Investment  
in high value-add 
technology and 
know-how
3 
Leverage of existing 
technology, products 
and services into 
new markets
4 
Programme 
management  
and operational 
excellence 
366 employees 1,473 hours 
Employee training completed in the first three months  
on the new online Learning and Development Centre.
5 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
www.cobham.com 0
2
4
6
8
10
2009
5.45
6.00
8.00
8.80
9.68
13% CAGR over ten years
pence
2010 2011 2012 2013
Overview
It has been a year of significant activity for Cobham. The Board  
has continued to give considerable focus to the Group’s strategic 
objectives, which underpin the drive towards sustainable organic 
revenue and profit growth and increasing shareholder value. 
The Group’s transformational EiD programme has enabled us to 
streamline and simplify the business and is achieving significant 
efficiency savings by reducing costs through an extensive site 
integration and rationalisation programme. In part, as we guided  
in 2012, we are using these savings to increase our investment in  
the business, as part of our focus on generating revenue growth.
EiD has continued to deliver improvements in operational 
performance and customer delivery through implementation  
of a standard operating framework across Cobham’s principal 
locations. With this first phase largely complete, the programme  
is moving into a continuous improvement phase that will not only 
sustain the progress already made but also drive further performance 
improvements. Operational excellence is essential to enable the 
Group to meet or, wherever possible, exceed customer expectations 
as the foundation for the delivery of sustainable organic revenue  
and profit growth. 
We have increased our investment in the business, linking this more 
closely to market opportunities and the needs of our customers.  
We have leading positions in attractive technology-led markets  
and we aim to grow market share and revenue by investing in  
new or improved products, which are often smaller, lighter and  
less power consumptive than legacy products. 
Furthermore, we also leverage our core suite of technologies into new 
commercial and geographic markets where suitable opportunities can 
be identified. This is aligned with our strategic objective of bringing 
more balance to the portfolio, so that the Group remains exposed to 
faster growth markets. The shift in the portfolio is also being achieved 
through carefully selected acquisitions, with two businesses with 
“There has been considerable 
focus on the drive towards 
sustainable organic revenue 
and profit growth”
Full year dividend
9.68p +10%
(2012: 8.80p)
6 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chairman’s Statement highly complementary technology and know-how purchased in the 
year, also reinforcing our market positions.
None of this is possible without the right skills and capabilities in the 
business. We have therefore increased our investment in our people 
in recent years, and we are linking our workforce requirements more 
closely to the business planning process, reinvigorating our approach 
to training and development and strengthening key management 
capabilities within the business. The Board is also mindful of the 
ageing demographics within the aerospace and defence industry and 
so we are gradually increasing the number of university graduates in 
the business, with a focus on science and engineering, and we are 
increasing the number of apprentices we recruit from schools.
A strong and effective governance framework is essential in enabling 
the achievement of the Group’s strategic objectives. Good progress 
has been made in this area in 2013, in particular in enhancing the 
Group’s programme management processes and introducing new 
procedures aimed at improving allocation of PV expenditure to 
targeted commercial opportunities. 
The Group strives for the highest standards possible in setting its 
ethics and compliance rules, and at all times to comply with all laws 
and regulations that apply in the jurisdictions in which it operates.  
It is therefore very disappointing for me to have to tell you about a 
potential issue with sales practices in a small business unit supplying 
products into Asia. This issue was identified internally and elevated 
through Cobham’s reporting lines, in accordance with our ethics 
policy and training. After an initial internal investigation, we made  
a voluntary disclosure to the US Department of Justice (DoJ) on  
24 February 2014. The investigation into this issue is ongoing and 
Cobham continues to co-operate fully with the DoJ.
The Board
We welcomed Simon Nicholls to the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 
1 May 2013. Simon joined us from Senior plc, a FTSE250 international 
group manufacturing engineered products for aerospace, defence and 
industrial applications. In his previous role as Group Finance Director  
at Senior, Simon played a key role in the strategic evolution and growth 
of the business and his experience of financial leadership will make him 
pivotal to the delivery of our strategic objectives.
Simon replaced Warren Tucker, who stood down after ten years 
service as Chief Financial Officer. The Board would like to thank 
Warren for his vision and enormous contribution to the Group  
over this time.
We also welcomed to the Board on 1 May 2013 Jonathan Flint  
as a Non-executive Director. Jonathan is Chief Executive of Oxford 
Instruments plc, a leading provider of high technology tools and 
systems for research and industry, where he continues to deliver 
strong growth and shareholder value in technology-led markets 
around the world. 
Marcus Beresford, Non-executive and Senior Independent Director, 
stood down from the Board at the conclusion of the 2013 Annual 
General Meeting. The Board is grateful to Marcus for his dedicated 
service over nine years and his invaluable contribution to Cobham 
during that time. With his departure, Michael Wareing has taken  
on the role of Senior Independent Director.
John Patterson, Non-executive Director and the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee, will stand down from the Board at the 
conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting. The Board is grateful 
for his significant contribution and support over the last nine years. 
Alison Wood will assume the role of Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee following his departure.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend for 2013 of 7.04p (2012: 
6.40p). This, together with the interim dividend of 2.64p (2012: 2.40p), 
will result in a total dividend per share for 2013 of 9.68p (2012: 8.80p), 
an increase of 10% on the prior year.
The Board is proud of Cobham’s long record of delivering a 
progressive dividend to our shareholders. The dividend has been 
increased consecutively for the last 43 years, an enduring track record 
that only a handful of other companies can match. This has been 
made possible in part due to Cobham’s cash generative business 
model, its differentiated positions in attractive technology markets 
and its prudent investment in acquisitions. Following investment in 
the business, we will continue to prioritise increasing the dividend 
payment in line with the long standing, progressive dividend policy.
Outlook
Cobham has delivered full year results in line with its guidance,  
in what remains a challenging US defence/security market. It has 
made good progress in the year against its strategic objectives, 
including increased technology and other organic investments,  
and accelerated benefits from the operational excellence  
programme. It is now realigning its organisational structure  
to enable the next stage of development.
 
Trading conditions in the US defence/security market are likely  
to remain challenging in 2014 with potentially significant foreign 
currency headwinds and continued pressure on US defence/security 
investment accounts. However, the Group anticipates that its strong 
and growing positions in attractive commercial markets and the 
generally positive prospects for its non-US defence/security markets 
will partially offset this, and Cobham continues to plan for Group 
organic revenue to decline by low-to-mid single digits in 2014. 
Cobham will continue to take further actions as appropriate to 
substantially mitigate the impact of this organic decline. 
Cobham has innovative technology and know-how supported  
by market leading positions, which allows it to leverage across  
its markets. As a result the Board continues to anticipate that it  
will deliver mid-single digit organic revenue growth from 2015.
Cobham benefits from a cash generative business model and a 
strong balance sheet, which enables it to maintain its long standing 
policy of a 10% progressive annual dividend increase.
John Devaney
Chairman
5 March 2014
7 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
www.cobham.com Strategy
Last year, I set out the Group’s strategy which is to leverage its 
innovative technology, know-how and understanding of customer 
needs to build and maintain leading positions in the second and third 
tiers of the global defence/security and commercial land, marine and 
aerospace markets. This enables Cobham to generate sustainable top 
and bottom line growth, relative to the markets in which we operate, 
while consistently generating good free cash flow, thereby creating 
shareholder value.
As a Group, we have invested significantly in the development of  
our strategy during the year and we are making tangible progress 
towards achieving our objectives and we anticipate a return to 
mid-single digit organic revenue growth from 2015.
Investment in management capabilities
We have increased investment in the year to achieve the objective  
of enhancing the skills and capabilities of our employees, who are 
critical to the delivery of future growth. As part of this investment,  
we are implementing a strategic workforce plan, have commenced 
deployment of an integrated talent management programme and  
are continuing to invest in an online learning and development centre.
Programme management is a core competency focus which enables 
us to meet customer expectations and deliver growth. Considerable 
work has been undertaken to enhance functional excellence in 
project and programme management across the Group’s diverse 
range of customer and internally funded activities, together with  
an increased focus on lifecycle management.
To enable the next stage of our strategic development and to make 
further progress towards achieving sustainable growth, we have 
undertaken a review of our structure. We will be retaining our four 
previously reported Divisions, now calling them Sectors, and these will be 
Communications and Connectivity (previously Aerospace and Security), 
US Defence Electronics, Mission Systems and Aviation Services. Within 
this structure, we will consolidate our three separate Special Security 
“We are transforming  
the Group’s operational 
performance and 
customer delivery  
through our Excellence  
in Delivery programme”
Strategic Overview
This will enable us to:
Deliver growth – Generate free cash flow  
– Create shareholder value
See page 12 for more information
Our seven strategic priorities will enable us to return to sustainable 
growth. They focus on:
1. Innovation with insight
2. Focus on components and subsystems
3. Leverage our technology
4. Focus on M&A
5. Operational excellence
6. Programme execution
7. Invest in skills and capabilities
8 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement Agreements into one, with all classified US Government work being 
carried out within US Defence Electronics. This consolidation requires 
the transfer of some business units from Communications and 
Connectivity to US Defence Electronics. There are no changes to the 
other two Sectors. We will reflect these changes in our reported results, 
commencing with our 2014 interims. 
We are also strengthening our senior management and reporting 
structure to support the continuing transformation. This includes  
the appointment of a Chief Operating Officer (COO) who will be 
given direct responsibility for some key Group-wide functions as  
well as direct responsibility for Communications and Connectivity 
and Mission Systems.
Technology investment
We have significantly increased PV investment to 6.2% (2012: 5.3%)  
of Group revenue. This is consistent with our previously announced 
plans to increase investment in our markets where there are good 
growth opportunities. 
As part of this, we have increased technology investment in SATCOM 
product development, relating to the new Inmarsat Global Xpress  
(GX) satellite constellation, with global coverage expected by the end 
of 2014. Within Antenna Systems, a revolutionary next generation 
Distributed Antenna System (DAS) platform, ‘idDAS’, has been 
launched. idDAS is the first major DAS platform that provides the 
ability to dynamically shift capacity around an ‘in-building’ facility  
on demand. 
 
We have also increased PV investment in Cobham Defence Systems 
in a range of critical defence/security technologies, including 
components and subsystems for next generation radar, electronic 
warfare and electronic attack applications, where there is an 
identified customer need and funding.
Total R&D investment, including customer funded projects, was  
up 19% to £186m (2012: £156m). The increased level of customer 
funding is primarily due to the ongoing significant funded 
development activity on aerial refuelling programmes, which  
is expected to increase in 2014.
Operational excellence
Our transformational EiD programme has continued to deliver critical 
improvements to operational performance and customer delivery. 
EiD has three components: the integration and rationalisation of 
operating sites into a set of principal locations; the implementation 
of a standard operating framework designed to drive operational 
excellence and establish a culture of continuous improvement; and 
the implementation of a standard ERP system.
Given the challenging conditions the Group is continuing to face  
in its US defence/security market, we have worked hard to accelerate 
the benefits of the integration and downsizing activities. A number  
of satellite facilities have been integrated or rationalised during  
the year and, in total, we have now rationalised 27 sites since the 
beginning of 2010. This has significantly reduced the cost base of the 
Group. We are using the savings generated in part to fund increased 
investment in our business, to help deliver sustainable organic growth. 
EiD has also simplified the Group’s operating structure and enhanced 
our flexibility and scalability.
Work has now been completed, as planned, in the principal locations on 
implementing the production, supply chain and engineering standard 
operating frameworks. Since the programme started, it has delivered 
significant improvements in the principal locations across a range of 
operational and customer metrics including on time delivery, quality 
and an improvement in direct labour productivity of 40%.
With centrally driven implementation activities largely finished,  
we are now focusing on actions to ensure that the significant 
progress that has been made to date is sustained, and that a  
culture of continuous improvement is embedded across the  
business to drive further improvements.
Work on the ERP system, also a major contributor to sustaining  
the operating and customer benefits of the standard operating 
framework, has continued. 
Largely driven by the significant acceleration of integration activity, 
we have achieved £28m of year-on-year efficiency savings during 
2013, well ahead of the £19m guidance. This brings the total 
annualised benefits to £76m since the programme began in 2010. 
The success in reducing costs means that we now expect EiD will 
generate £105m of annualised efficiency benefits by 2015, which  
is an increase of £5m on the previous guidance and this will be 
achieved one year earlier than planned. We expect to be able to 
achieve this within the existing budget, which is £191m over the 
programme life. EiD costs in the year were £56m, reflecting the 
acceleration of activity.
Capital allocation and mergers and acquisitions
We continue to prioritise investment for organic growth, followed  
by our long standing, progressive dividend policy. After this, we use 
the significant free cash flows generated and the strong balance sheet 
to acquire businesses that are complementary to, and reinforce,  
our differentiated technology and know-how and market positions. 
During the year, we invested over £150m in acquisitions: primarily  
Axell in May for up to £85m, including contingent consideration,  
and in July the £74m acquisition of the outstanding 50% stake in FBH, 
our helicopter joint venture. We remain focused on bringing more 
balance to the portfolio and we will achieve this through a rigorous 
and disciplined approach to investment.
Conclusion
We remain convinced that the successful pursuit of these objectives 
is key to the ongoing health of the business. Accordingly, we intend 
to maintain our strategic focus on executing our key priorities. This is 
especially important as conditions in the US defence/security market 
are likely to remain challenging in 2014. We remain confident that 
this will enable us to develop the capabilities, processes and people 
that we need to meet the Board’s growth expectations and deliver 
increasing value for Cobham’s shareholders and other stakeholders.
Bob Murphy
Chief Executive Officer
5 March 2014
9 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
www.cobham.com The Group operates in three end markets: US defence/
security, non-US defence/security and commercial, which  
comprises specialist aerospace, marine and land markets.
Competitive position within our markets
During the year, the Group has continued  
to make progress in bringing more balance  
to the revenue derived from its end markets, 
with the proportion generated from 
commercial markets increasing to 35% (2012: 
31%). This has increased due to a combination 
of organic growth and acquisitions. These 
acquisitions have brought complementary 
technology and capability to the Group in 
predominantly commercial markets. 
The Group has market leading positions and 
a portfolio of attractive technologies which 
can be leveraged across defence/security 
and commercial customers.
Within the US defence/security market, the 
Group is well positioned on high priority new 
platforms, including the KC-46 aerial refuelling 
tanker, the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, and on a 
number of ballistic missile defence 
programmes. It is also well positioned to 
benefit from upgrade programmes where  
it partners with a number of different system 
integrators to supply key components and 
subsystems, including on a variety of high 
priority next generation radar and electronic 
warfare programmes.
Cobham’s technology and know-how are 
also highly relevant to non-US defence/
security markets, where there are 
opportunities to benefit from significant 
platform/programme export orders won by 
larger defence companies and also from 
selling products and services direct to end 
customers. The Group has strong positions 
on a number of defence/security platforms 
with good export potential in markets 
outside of the US, including the European 
A400M and Brazilian KC-390 aerial refuelling 
tankers, the Eurofighter Typhoon and the 
Swedish Gripen fighter aircraft.
The Group has strong technology and know-how 
positions in a number of aerospace and aviation 
markets, including large transport, regional and 
business jets, helicopters and smaller aircraft. It 
has technology positions with manufacturers 
such as Boeing, Airbus, Airbus Helicopters and 
Bombardier, as well as airline customers.
In addition to aerospace, it also has positions in 
the SA TCOM market, where it is a leader in the 
marine market, and in a number of commercial 
land markets.
Achieving further balance across the portfolio 
remains a strategic objective for the Group.
Non-US defence/security
28%
(2012: 27%)
US defence/security
37%
(2012: 42%)
Commercial
35%
(2012: 31%)
10 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Our Markets
The Group operates in three market segments CAS 11%
CDS 16%
CMS 10%
Total 37%
CAS 9%
CDS 1%
CMS 8%
CAvS 10%
Total 28%
CAS 22%
CMS 2%
CAvS 11%
Total 35%
Conditions in the US defence/security 
market in 201 3 were challenging, as 
expected, and are likely to remain so for the 
foreseeable future. The Bipartisan Budget 
Act of 201 3 has brought increased certainty 
to the level of US Federal spending in 2014 
and 2015 and partial relief from the full 
impact of budget cuts mandated under  
the Budget Control Act of 201 1. 
However, ongoing pressure is still expected 
on the US Department of Defense 
investment accounts, as the bulk of the 
relief funding is likely to be used to reduce 
the backlog in training, maintenance and 
the readiness of the armed forces, rather 
than for investment in capabilities. The 
Group also remains cautious on medium-
term prospects in this market as, based on 
previous down-cycles, the investment 
accounts may continue to drift lower, 
before reaching their cyclical trough.
Notwithstanding these market challenges, 
Cobham continues to believe that its 
differentiated technology and know-how, 
with its focus on improving communications, 
enhancing mobility and keeping people 
safe in harsh environments, remain aligned 
with the customers’ priorities. 
Demand conditions in defence/security 
markets outside of the US have remained 
subdued in Europe but there are sizeable 
and growing opportunities elsewhere in 
the world. The Group believes that overall 
prospects in these markets remain good, 
with growth being driven by regional 
procurement priorities and a variety of 
security concerns including border security, 
piracy, drug trafficking and terrorism. 
Overall, the Group anticipates that 
demand in accessible non-US defence/
security markets is likely to be aligned 
with the ongoing shift in spending away 
from the flat or lower growth budgets  
in Europe, to increasing budgets in the 
Middle East, Asia and other faster growth 
economies. The Group remains well 
positioned to capitalise on this trend.
Cobham’s Aviation Services business  
has significantly enhanced its existing 
capabilities during the year through the 
acquisition of FB Heliservices (FBH), which 
has added rotary to its existing fixed wing 
capability in markets including the Middle 
East and the Caribbean. Going forward, 
this market is expected to continue to 
benefit from a trend towards increased 
outsourcing.
Cobham’s differentiated technology and 
know-how are also used in attractive 
commercial markets, where it has strong  
and growing positions. The Group’s primary 
commercial markets are those in specialist 
aviation in Australia, the marine SA TCOM 
market, land markets globally and a range  
of other aerospace markets including large 
transport aircraft, regional and business jets, 
helicopters and smaller aircraft, as well as 
land markets globally. 
Growth in Cobham’s Aviation Services 
business in Australia is linked to the long 
term growth in demand for natural 
resources. The Group has made good 
progress during the year in this market, 
winning some significant long term 
orders in Australia.
Demand in other commercial markets  
has also increased strongly, driven by 
factors including aircraft production rates, 
a desire for increased bandwidth on air 
and marine platforms, and demand for 
smaller and lighter products which drive 
operational efficiency and fuel savings. 
The Group also benefits from an 
increasing desire for communication  
in locations that lack effective terrestrial 
communications and from increasingly 
stringent safety requirements. 
US defence/security market
US defence/security market
Aligned to the customers’ priorities
Non-US defence/security markets
Non-US defence/security markets
Sizeable and growing opportunities  
across the globe 
Commercial markets
Commercial markets
Leverage technology and know-how into 
attractive markets
11 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
www.cobham.com Delivering on our seven strategic priorities enables us to generate 
sustainable top and bottom line growth, relative to the markets  
in which we operate, while consistently generating good free cash 
flow and creating shareholder value.
Improve understanding of our 
markets and customers’ future 
needs, aligning PV investments 
with these priorities.
1.
Innovation with insight
Why this is important: 
Our differentiated  
technology and know- 
how are a key competitive 
advantage in our markets. 
Having a thorough 
understanding of market 
opportunities and our 
customers’ future needs 
optimises our ability  
to closely align our 
technology investments  
to customer requirements. 
Remain focused on the 
second and third tiers of 
global defence/security 
markets, and commercial 
aerospace, marine and  
land markets.
2.
Focus on components 
and subsystems
Why this is important: 
Our innovative technology 
and know-how are focused on 
tier two (subsystems) and tier 
three (components) segments 
of our markets, where we 
have a competitive edge.  
This enables us to provide 
comprehensive solutions for 
our customers’ complex 
technology problems.
Identify adjacent markets 
where our existing technology 
and know-how can be 
leveraged to meet the needs 
of new customers.
3.
Leverage our technology
Why this is important: 
Accessing adjacent 
commercial markets allows  
us to leverage our existing 
technology and know-how, 
thereby increasing revenue 
and shareholder returns. This 
also brings more balance to 
our portfolio and enables us 
to provide sustainable growth 
through business cycles.
Use mergers and acquisitions 
to shift the emphasis of the 
portfolio ahead of market 
movements to remain exposed 
to faster growing markets.
4.
Focus on M&A
Why this is important:  
Utilising our strong free  
cash flow and the Group’s 
balance sheet, we acquire 
businesses that are 
complementary to, and 
reinforce, our differentiated 
technology and know-how. 
We achieve this through a 
rigorous and disciplined 
approach to investment.  
Our strategic objective is  
to use M&A to bring more 
balance to the portfolio.
Group PV investment 
Target: 6%
6.2%
(2012: 5.3%)
During the year, we invested 
over £150m in acquisitions, 
primarily Axell for up to 
£85m, including contingent 
consideration, and the  
£74m acquisition of the 
outstanding 50% stake in 
FBH, the helicopter joint 
venture. These acquisitions 
bring differentiated and 
complementary technology 
and know-how in growing 
and attractive markets.
Group organic revenue growth 
Target: mid-single digit organic revenue growth from 2015
(4)%
(2012: (1)%)
See page 9 for more information. See page 23 for more information. See page 11 for more information.
12 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Our Strategy and Key Performance Indicators
Our strategic priorities focus on Drive a culture of continuous 
improvement from an 
integrated, streamlined 
business through Excellence  
in Delivery.
5.
Operational excellence
Why this is important: 
Alongside financial benefits, 
EiD has delivered a number  
of significant operating and 
customer benefits, including 
improved productivity, 
shortened manufacturing  
lead times and improved levels  
of quality. It has resulted in a 
simpler, more scalable business 
and a sharper focus on the 
customer, with enhanced 
internal communication  
and collaboration.
Improve programme 
execution across customer 
and PV funded projects  
to achieve sector leading 
customer delivery and 
operational performance.
6.
Programme execution
Why this is important: 
Programme management  
is a core competency focus 
and enables us to meet 
customer expectations  
and deliver growth. 
Ensure the right capabilities 
are in place in changing 
markets by increasing 
investment to build essential 
skills and capabilities.
Cobham’s progress is 
monitored with a score card 
of financial and non-financial 
metrics. The following  
are considered the  
most important:
7.
Invest in skills  
and capabilities
Why this is important: 
The delivery of our strategy 
depends on the right people, 
skills and capabilities being in 
place. We have continued to 
increase our investment in 
learning and development to 
build the essential skills and 
capabilities from which to 
drive future growth, by 
attracting, training and 
retaining the best talent.
Key Performance 
Indicators
Operational excellence  
is one of a number of tools 
with which we drive, improve 
and monitor our health & 
safety performance.
Staff safety – major accident 
incident rate* 
Target: zero
326
(2012: 666)
* Per 100,000 employees
We have undertaken 
considerable work to 
enhance functional 
excellence in project and 
programme management 
across the diverse range of 
customer and internally 
funded activities, together 
with an increased focus on 
lifecycle management. 
Voluntary staff turnover 
Target: <10%
6.9%
(2012: 8.7%)
Return on invested capital 
Target: >10% 
15.3%
(2012: 18.1%)
Operating  
cash conversion  
Target: >80%
85%
(2012: 104%)
See page 24 for more information
Underlying EPS growth  
Target: high single digit
(4)%
(2012: 3%)
See page 24 for more information
  Key performance indicator  
used by management.
  Used as a measure for determining 
executive remuneration.
For definitions, see page 140. See pages 9 and 34 for more information. See page 8 for more information. See pages 8 and 30 for more information.
13 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
www.cobham.com Provides aircraft and in-building 
communication equipment, law 
enforcement and national security 
monitoring solutions, and satellite 
communication equipment for 
land, sea and air applications.
The quality, reliability and innovation demonstrated across 
SAILOR and SeaTel maritime based SATCOM systems, 
combined with a worldwide network of service facilities, 
ensure that Cobham Aerospace and Security meets the 
communication requirements of any vessel or fleet, 
regardless of size, application or location.
14 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Aerospace and Security 0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
2012
697
92 (45)
744
Acquisitions 
and currency 
translation
Organic 
growth
2013
Divisional revenue
£m
0%
10%
20%
30%
2012
21.4 (1.0)
(2.6)
17.8
Acquisitions 
and currency 
translation
Organic 
growth
2013
Divisional trading margin
US defence/security 25%
Non US defence/security 22%
Commercial aerospace/ 
general aerospace 19%
Commercial 
maritime/other 34%
USA 37%
UK 13%
Other EU 28%
Australia 1%
Asia 13%
RoW 8%
Development aircraft MSN3’s first flight 
was in June 2013 with the A350 XWB entry 
into service expected in the second half 
of 2014. The A350 aircraft has a number 
of Cobham Aerospace and Security 
communication products, including 
SATCOM antennas and its radio and 
audio integrated management system.
Revenue
Total revenue increased by £47m, or 7%, and at constant 
exchange rates increased by £34m, or 5%, primarily due 
to the 2013 acquisition of Axell and the full year impact 
of the 2012 Thrane & Thrane acquisition. 
There was a good performance in commercial markets with 
revenue 6% higher, although this was offset by lower defence/
security revenue resulting in a 6% decline in organic revenue.
Trading margin 
The Division’s trading margin was lower 
at 1 7 .8% (2012: 21.4%) principally due to the 
adverse impact of reduced US defence/
security volumes, increased PV and other 
organic investments, and the dilutive impact 
of acquisitions, all offsetting EiD efficiencies. 
Other performance highlights
• Strong revenue growth from commercial 
aircraft manufacturers, including first 
deliveries of radio communication and 
other products for the new Airbus A350 
aircraft, which is due to enter service 
in the second half of 2014;
• First significant revenue generated for 
the hand-held ‘Minehound’ product for 
humanitarian mine clearance applications, 
partially offsetting lower counter-IED 
revenue in defence/security markets;
• Demand for the new land based Explorer 
700 SATCOM terminal, offering high data 
rate capability, with first deliveries in 2013;
• The planned integration of the Axell 
acquisition has been completed and 
the business has performed above 
expectations, including securing orders 
to equip stadia in Brazil for the football 
World Cup and for the Olympics.
Revenue by market
Revenue by geography
15 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
www.cobham.com
Highlights Provides critical technology for 
network centric operations, moving 
information around the digital 
battlefield with customised and 
off-the-shelf solutions for people 
and systems to communicate on 
land, sea and air.
Cobham Defence Systems supplies critical electronics 
on the standard missile which is used for ballistic missile 
defence, with Cobham Aerospace and Security also 
providing major radio frequency and microwave 
assemblies for the associated Aegis surveillance 
and fire control radar system.
16 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Defence Systems 0
100
200
300
400
2012
323
4 (18)
309
Organic 
growth
2013 Currency 
translation
Divisional revenue
£m
US defence/security 94%
Non US defence/security 6%
USA 97%
UK 1%
Other EU 1%
Asia 1%
0%
10%
20%
2012
13.9 (0.0)
1.1 15.0
Currency 
translation
Organic 
growth
2013
Divisional trading margin
The Active Electronically Scanned Array 
(AESA) radar is the next generation of radar 
technology. Cobham Defence Systems has 
key components and subsystems for future 
AESA upgrades of the F-16 fighter aircraft. 
Revenue
T otal revenue fell by £14m, or 4%, and at constant translation 
exchange rates organic revenue was down by £18m, an 
organic decline of 5%. This was driven principally by reduced 
US defence/security spending, with the division adversely 
impacted by lower revenue from some land based 
programmes and from missile guidance systems.
Trading margin 
The trading margin increased to 15.0% 
(2012: 1 3.9%) despite lower volumes and 
higher PV and other investments, in part 
due to EiD benefits. 
Other performance highlights
• Increasing shipments of microelectronic 
assemblies for proprietary electronic 
intelligence programmes, with a strong 
backlog supporting continuation of 
revenue through to 2015;
• Award of a development contract for a 
major subsystem on the Air and Missile 
Defense Radar. This new programme 
upgrades the US Navy ship-board missile 
defense radar, with development activity 
continuing to 2015 and first production 
the following year;
• The Predator Unmanned Aerial Vehicle 
(UAV) successfully demonstrated a ‘sense 
and avoid’ capability utilising Cobham 
AESA radar panels. This capability is 
crucial in enabling the US Federal Aviation 
Administration to allow UAV access 
into non-segregated US airspace; 
• The AMRAAM ‘D’ missile is nearing 
successful completion of its operational 
evaluation. Full rate production of this 
latest version will follow, with Cobham’s 
content set to triple.
Revenue by market
Revenue by geography
For information on the calculation of geographic and market revenue, please see page 140.
17 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
www.cobham.com
Highlights Provides safety and survival systems 
for extreme environments, nose-to-
tail refuelling systems and wing-tip 
to wing-tip mission systems for 
fast jets, transport aircraft and 
rotorcraft, and provides remote 
controlled robots and fully equipped 
bomb disposal vehicles for homeland 
security and military applications.
Cobham supplies aerial refuelling equipment to 
every major tanker programme, including the 
Lockheed Martin C-130, Airbus Military A300MRTT, 
A400M, Boeing KC-46 and Embraer KC-390 aircraft. 
The UK’s Voyager programme, which utilises the 
A330MRTT aircraft, was formally released to service 
in August 2013.
18 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Mission Systems 0
100
200
300
400
2012
373 3 (18)
358
Organic 
growth
2013 Currency 
translation
Divisional revenue
£m
US defence/security 52%
Non US defence/security 40%
Commercial aerospace/
general aerospace 6%
Commercial 
maritime/other 2%
USA 62%
UK 12%
Other EU 14%
Asia 7%
RoW 4%
Australia 1%
0%
10%
20%
30%
2012
21.8 (0.1) (1.0)
20.7
Currency 
translation
Organic 
growth
2013
Divisional trading margin
The first major international order for the 
Cobham PHANTOM Jump Bottle System 
was received in late 201 3, representing 
the next generation in military parachutist 
oxygen equipment. Cobham Mission Systems 
utilises state of the art material technology, 
expertise and knowledge to ensure this 
complex breathing system is perfectly 
suited to the high altitudes and harsh 
environments experienced by the military.
Revenue
Total revenue was £15m or 4% lower, and at constant 
translation exchange rates fell by £18m, an organic decline 
of 5%. The principal driver of this was in the US, where 
there was reduced revenue in the short cycle life support 
products. This decrease was partially offset by an increase 
in non-US defence/security revenue, principally relating 
to oxygen products and advanced bomb disposal robots. 
Also, in the UK there was significant revenue from the initial 
provision of aerial refuelling spares to the FSTA programme. 
This partially offset the one-off revenue milestone in 2012.
Trading margin 
The Division’s trading margin was slightly lower 
at 20.7% (2012: 21.8%), despite EiD efficiencies. 
The change in margin in part reflected lower 
US defence/security volumes and an increase 
in funded development revenue in the aerial 
refuelling business. 
Other performance highlights
• Significant revenue from the initial 
provisioning of aerial refuelling spares 
to support the UK’s growing FSTA fleet;
• Increased revenue from advanced bomb 
disposal robots for homeland security 
applications, with a growing pipeline 
of future prospects in Europe and the 
Middle East;
• Deliveries of aircraft oxygen systems 
commenced for export to the Indian, 
Brazilian, Korean and Turkish military 
trainer aircraft programmes, along with 
Royal Saudi Air Force F-15 fighter aircraft. 
Shipments are expected to continue over 
the next five years;
• Qualification of Mobile Aircrew Restraint 
Systems and Water Actuated Release 
Systems for helicopters. These products 
protect crews from injury or death and 
will provide a significant revenue stream 
over the next five years.
Revenue by market
Revenue by geography
For information on the calculation of geographic and market revenue, please see page 140
19 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
www.cobham.com
Highlights Delivers outsourced aviation 
services for military and civil 
customers worldwide through 
military training, special mission 
flight operations, outsourced 
commercial aviation and 
aircraft engineering. 
In 2013, the UK Ministry of Defence 
awarded Aviation Services a five 
year base contract extension worth 
£165m through to 2019 for essential 
operational readiness training. 
Cobham has extensive understanding 
of front-line needs and technology 
know-how, providing training to 
service personnel operating platforms 
including some of the UK’s most 
modern equipment, such as the 
Eurofighter Typhoon aircraft and 
Type 45 Destroyer.
20 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Aviation Services 0
100
200
300
400
2012
327
29
9 365
Acquisitions 
and currency 
translation
Organic 
growth
2013
Divisional revenue
£m
Non US defence/security 47%
Commercial aerospace/
general aerospace 53%
Australia 65%
UK 25%
Other EU 4%
Asia 4%
RoW 2%
Revenue by geography
0%
10%
20%
2012
11.6 0.2
1.3 13.1
Acquisitions 
and currency 
translation
Organic 
growth
2013
Divisional trading margin
During 2013, Cobham Aviation Services 
was awarded an AUS$150m scope 
expansion to its current Boeing 717 (B717) 
regional QantasLink contract. This sees 
the fleet of B717s operated by Cobham 
increase from 13 to 18 aircraft and the 
establishment of new operating bases 
in Australia.
Revenue
Total revenue increased by £38m due to organic growth 
of 3% and the FBH acquisition, which was completed in 
the year. This was partly offset by an adverse translation 
impact from the Australian dollar. 
Trading margin 
The Division’s trading margin of 13.1% 
(2012: 11.6%) including joint ventures, 
benefited from the end of lower margin 
FSTA conversion work. The prior year trading 
margin also included UK redundancy costs.
Other performance highlights
• Three of five additional B717 aircraft 
under contract for QantasLink have now 
entered service with the remaining two 
to commence operations in the first half 
of 2014;
• Modification of five Dash 8 surveillance 
aircraft for Australian Customs and Border 
Protection Command was completed 
enabling search and rescue operations 
as part of the Sentinel contract;
• Modification and mobilisation of three 
aircraft to provide ongoing support to 
the Ok Tedi mine in Papua New Guinea 
until 2019; 
• FB Heliservices’ transition into Cobham 
Helicopter Services has progressed well. 
Business development activities are 
focused on Helicopter Services’ existing 
international footprint, with its training 
and support contract in Trinidad and 
Tobago expanded from the beginning 
of 2014. 
Revenue by market
21 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
www.cobham.com
Highlights Summary of underlying results
£m 2013
2012
(as restated) 
Revenue 1,790 1,749
Trading profit 318 332
Trading margin 17.7% 19.0%
Underlying net finance expense (30) (32)
Underlying profit before tax 288 300
Underlying tax (57) (58)
Underlying tax rate 20.0% 20.0%
Underlying profit after tax 231 242
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 1,069 1,075
Underlying EPS (pence) 21.6 22.5
Results
Orders
At the year end, the Group’s order book was £2.27bn (2012: £2.40bn).  
At constant translation exchange rates, and after adjusting for the 
impact of the 2013 acquisitions, the Group’s order book was 4%  
lower than the prior year, in part driven by the US defence/security 
exposed businesses. Group order intake in the year was £1,670m 
(2012: £1,656m). 
The Group’s book-to-bill ratio in the year was 0.93 times (2012: 0.95 
times). The overall book-to-bill ratios in Cobham’s long and short 
cycle businesses were both broadly in line with these trends. 
Book-to-bill in the largely commercial SATCOM business reflected  
the anticipated flat revenue profile, ahead of the GX satellite 
constellation achieving global coverage by the end of 2014. 
•	 Group revenue increased by 2%, with acquisitions  
trading ahead of plan
•	 Incremental savings in Excellence in Delivery well ahead  
of plan, with site integrations being accelerated
•	 Technology investment increased 19% to £186m,  
including customer funded projects
•	 Solid operating cash conversion of 85%
“Cobham has delivered full 
year results in line with  
its guidance, in what has 
remained a challenging US 
defence/security market”
22 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial Review
Highlights Revenue
Analysis of Group revenue (£m)
 
2012
FX  
translation
 
Acquisitions
Organic  
growth
 
2013
1,749 7 103 (69) 1,790
Total Group revenue increased 2% to £1,790m (2012: £1,749m), primarily 
due to the positive impacts of the 201 3 acquisitions of Axell and FBH and 
the additional part year contribution from Thrane & Thrane, which was 
acquired in June 2012. Revenue from these acquisitions was, in part, 
offset by the divestment of the non-core emergency locator beacons 
businesses in 2012. There was also a favourable net foreign exchange 
translation impact, driven by a slight strengthening of the US dollar.
Group organic revenue in 2013 declined by 4% overall, compared to the 
prior year. Growth in the Group’s commercial markets was strong at 7% 
with a good performance in Aviation Services and increasing revenue 
from radio and audio products, antennas and SATCOM products as 
large transport aircraft production volumes continued to increase. 
US defence/security organic revenue was 11% lower with a significant 
decline in short cycle land revenue, particularly surveillance and 
tracking and locating products, Life Support products and counter-
IED (improvised explosive device) products. 
Non-US defence/security organic revenue fell by 5%, including lower 
revenue from the UK FSTA programme.
Technology investment
The Group’s PV investment increased in the year to £88m (2012: 
£75m), representing 6.2% (2012: 5.3%) of revenue. This is consistent 
with Cobham’s previously announced plans to increase technology 
investment in its markets, closely aligning it to growth opportunities. 
Total R&D investment, which includes PV investment and customer 
funded projects, was up by 19% to £186m (2012: £156m). The 
increased level of customer funding is primarily due to the ongoing 
significant funded development activity on aerial refuelling 
programmes, which is expected to increase in 2014. 
Trading profit
Group trading profit was £318m (2012: £332m). The reduction in 
trading profit relates primarily to the impact of the decline in revenue 
from short cycle US defence/security exposed businesses, most 
notably in the Group’s Tactical Communications and Surveillance 
business. Total trading profit included the contributions from the  
Axell and FBH acquisitions in 2013, as well as the additional part year 
contribution from the 2012 Thrane & Thrane SATCOM acquisition. 
These positive contributions were partly offset by the negative 
impact of the divestment of the non-core emergency locator 
beacons businesses in 2012. 
The Group’s trading margin in 201 3 was 1 7 .7% (201 2: 1 9.0%). Within this, the 
trading margin in organic operations fell by 0.9 percentage points. This was 
principally due to a combination of lower sales volumes in US defence/
security businesses, increased technology and other organic investments 
in the business in line with the Group’s strategy, and a change in the portfolio 
mix. These factors were partially offset by the favourable impact of EiD 
efficiencies. In addition, the Group’s 201 3 and 201 2 acquisitions reduced 
the Group’s trading margin by 0.4 percentage points. 
Group statutory operating profit was lower at £159m (2012: £237m).  
In addition to the factors above, this was driven by higher EiD costs of 
£56m (2012: £38m), increased amortisation of intangible assets arising 
on acquisitions of £104m (2012: £69m) and a goodwill impairment 
charge of £63m (2012: £nil) on the Tactical Communications and 
Surveillance business, which experienced a significant revenue decline 
in the year, particularly in the US. The principal item partially offsetting 
the above was a gain of £62m (2012: £1m) on the revaluation of the 
existing equity interest in FBH, which arose at the time the Group 
acquired the outstanding 50% stake of the joint venture.
Underlying net finance expense and underlying  
profit before tax
The Group’s underlying net finance expense was £30m (2012: £32m). 
The net interest expense on cash and debt holdings was slightly lower 
at £27m (2012: £29m), partly due to the mix of fixed and floating debt  
in the year, offsetting higher debt levels in the second half from 
acquisitions and adverse foreign exchange movements. There was a 
non-cash net finance charge from pension schemes of £3m (2012: £3m).
In 2014, the Group’s non-cash net finance charge from pension 
schemes is expected to be £4m.
The Group’s underlying profit before taxation was £288m (2012: £300m).
Organic revenue growth
Defence/Security
(9)%
(2012: (2)%) 
Commercial
7%
(2012: 2%)
Group
(4)% 
(2012: (1)%)
23 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
www.cobham.com Taxation
The Group’s underlying tax rate is unchanged at 20.0% (2012: 20.0%), 
from an underlying tax charge of £57m (2012: £58m). The rate is 
calculated by taking the underlying tax charge and dividing it by the 
underlying profit before tax of £288m (2012: £300m), excluding the 
£3m (2012: £7m) share of post-tax results of joint ventures.
Earnings per Share (EPS)
Underlying EPS at 21.6p (201 2: 22.5p) was 4% lower at constant translation 
exchange rates, consistent with the Group’s trading profit performance.
Basic EPS was 10.7p (2012: 16.0p). 
Cash flow
Operating cash flow, which is stated after net capital expenditure  
but before net interest and tax payments, was £269m (2012: £339m). 
The operating cash conversion rate (which is calculated by dividing 
operating cash flow by the Group’s trading profit, excluding its share 
of the post-tax profits of joint ventures) was solid at 85% (2012: 104%). 
Cash conversion was adversely impacted by a £32m outflow (2012: 
£25m inflow) in working capital in the year, which was driven by an 
increase in trade and other receivables. This in part reflected strong 
trading in December and, encouragingly, the Group’s days sales 
outstanding remained broadly consistent with the prior year. Overall, 
inventory movements had no impact on cash flow, with a number of 
sites achieving year-on-year inventory reductions. However, this was 
offset by an increase in work-in-progress relating to funded aerial 
refuelling programmes in development. In addition, inventory 
increased due to the acquisitions in the year.
Capital expenditure was broadly consistent with the previous year  
at £61m (2012: £63m).
The Group generated £1 55m (201 2: £241m) of free cash flow. This is stated 
after £51m (201 2: £32m) of EiD payments, net interest payments of £29m 
(201 2: £29m) and £38m (201 2: £45m) of tax payments. Dividend receipts 
from joint ventures fell to £4m (201 2: £8m), following the Group taking full 
control of the FBH joint venture during the year. 
Out of free cash flow, the Group paid dividends of £97m (2012: £93m) 
and invested a net £152m (2012: £275m) in acquisitions, primarily the 
acquisitions of Axell and FBH and an investment in the FSTA consortium.
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend for 2013 of 7.04p (2012: 
6.40p). This, together with the interim dividend of 2.64p (2012: 2.40p), 
will result in a total dividend per share for 2013 of 9.68p (2012: 8.80p), 
an increase of 10% on the prior year, in line with the Group’s long 
standing, progressive dividend policy. 
The shares will be traded ex dividend on 30 April 2014. The dividend 
will be payable on 30 May 2014 to all holders on the register at 2 May 
2014, subject to shareholder approval.
Treasury 
The Group’s treasury activities are managed centrally by the Group 
Treasury function, which reports to the Chief Financial Officer. The 
Treasury function operates within written policies and delegation 
levels that have been approved by the Board. It is the Group’s policy 
that trading in financial instruments is used for financial risk 
management purposes only. 
Reconciliation of underlying profit
£m 2013
2012  
(as restated)
Trading profit is calculated as follows:
Results before joint ventures 156 230
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 3 7
Operating profit 159 237
Adjusted to exclude:
Business restructuring – Excellence in Delivery 56 38
Movements in non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments (2) (11)
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 104 69
Impairment of goodwill 63 –
Revaluation gain arising on equity interests in FBH (2012: Thrane & Thrane) (62) (1)
Total operating reconciling items 159 95
Trading profit 318 332
Underlying profit before tax is calculated as follows:
Profit before taxation 127 204
Total operating reconciling items as above 156 95
Unwinding of acquisition related discounting 2 1
Underlying profit before taxation 288 300
Taxation charge on underlying profit (57) (58)
Underlying profit after taxation 231 242
Underlying EPS (pence) 21.6 22.5
24 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial Review continued 0
200
400
600
800
2013
Maturity profile of Group’s outstanding debt facilities
£m
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
£453m net debt at 31 
December 2013
Debt and financing 
At the year end, net debt, which comprises short term cash balances 
and fixed term borrowings, increased to £453m (2012: £360m). It is 
the Group’s policy to hold a significant proportion of its borrowings 
in foreign currency, principally US dollars, as a natural hedge against 
assets and earnings denominated in those currencies, which gave  
rise to modest exchange rate movements at the year end of £3m 
(2012: £18m). 
The Group has a strong balance sheet, with year end net debt/EBITDA 
ratio of 1.2 times, as defined under the Group’s debt covenants, and 
interest cover of 11.9 times. Under the terms of these borrowing 
facilities, it is required to maintain its ratio of net debt/EBITDA at or 
below 3.5 times and its interest cover ratio at or above 3.0 times, and 
so the Group remains well within the limits contained within its debt 
covenant agreements. 
For covenant purposes, net debt is typically expressed at average 
foreign exchange translation rates. EBITA, EBITDA and net interest 
numbers include pro forma adjustments for joint venture interests, 
acquisitions and disposals. 
Included within net debt are pound sterling and US dollar cash deposits, 
as well as borrowings which are primarily denominated in US dollars  
and which are held for the reasons described in the section on foreign 
exchange below. At 31 December 2013, the Group held total cash and 
short term bank deposits, all with an original maturity of three months 
or less, of £201m (31 December 2012: £264m). 
The Group’s principal borrowings include: 
•	 A US$360m multi-currency credit agreement, of which US$90m 
expires in October 2016 and US$270m which expires in October 
2018. Interest is payable at the applicable benchmark rate  
of the drawn currencies plus margin, of which US$343m had 
been drawn down under this agreement at the year end; 
•	 A EUR70m loan agreement which expires in June 2017. Interest  
is payable at the applicable benchmark rate of the drawn 
currencies plus margin, of which EUR44m had been drawn  
down under this agreement at the year end; 
•	 A DKK525m multi-currency credit agreement which expires in 
October 2017. Interest is payable at the applicable benchmark 
rate of the drawn currencies plus margin, of which DKK472m  
had been drawn down under this agreement at the year end; 
•	 US$359m of senior notes maturing in tranches in 2014, 2016, 
2019 and 2020 with an average coupon of 6.25%; and 
•	 US$155m of senior notes maturing in 2017 and 2018, with  
an interest rate at the applicable LIBOR rate plus margin. 
Cash flow
£m 2013
2012  
(as restated)
Trading profit (excluding joint ventures) 315 325
Depreciation, amortisation and other items 61 66
Pension contributions in excess of service and administration cost (14) (14)
(Increase)/decrease in working capital (32) 25
Net capital expenditure (61) (63)
Operating cash flow 269 339
Operating cash flow/trading profit (excluding joint ventures) 85% 104%
Net interest paid (29) (29)
Taxation paid (38) (45)
Dividends received from joint ventures 4 8
Free cash flow before restructuring costs 206 273
Restructuring costs – EiD (51) (32)
Free cash flow 155 241
Dividends paid (97) (93)
Acquisition payments less divestment proceeds, other related costs and loans to joint ventures (152) (275)
Net purchase of treasury shares (2) (19)
Exchange movements 3 18
Increase in net debt (93) (128)
Debt covenants
Dec 2013 Dec 2012
Net debt (£m) – balance sheet (453) (360)
Net debt (£m) – average rate (480) (371)
EBITDA (£m) 395 408
Net debt to EBITDA (not to exceed 3.5 times) 1.2 0.9
EBITA (£m) 322 348
Net interest (£m) 27 30
Interest cover (to exceed 3 times) 11.9 11.6
25 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
www.cobham.com 0 30 60 90 120 150
2014 Total
2015
2016 to 2022
Hedging in place
Hedging in place
Historical average
effective rate
2010 $1.58: £1
2011 $1.56: £1
2012 $1.59: £1
2013 $1.59: £1
93% hedged for 2014
Avg hedge rate $1.59: £1
Avg hedge rate $1.58: £1
Avg hedge rate $1.56: £1
$134m
$124m
$38m
$72m
Foreign exchange transaction exposure
There were no significant movements in the Group’s debt or  
facilities during the year. However, in February 2014, the Group 
agreed an AUS$90m multi-currency revolving credit agreement 
maturing in 2018. Interest is payable on the basis of a margin over 
the applicable benchmark.
Further details on the Group’s borrowings are given in note 19 to the 
Group Financial Statements. 
Foreign exchange 
2013 2012
Income statement – average rate
US$/£ 1.57 1.58
AUS$/£ 1.62 1.53
EUR/£ 1.18 1.23
DKK/£ 8.79 9.18
Balance sheet – closing rate
US$/£ 1.66 1.63
AUS$/£ 1.85 1.57
EUR/£ 1.20 1.23
DKK/£ 8.97 9.20
The Group’s aim is to reduce, or eliminate whenever practical,  
foreign exchange transaction risk, of which the pound sterling/US 
dollar exchange rate is the most important. This is primarily because 
many global aerospace and defence contracts are denominated  
in US dollars. 
Additionally, foreign exchange translation exposure arises on the 
earnings of operating companies largely based in the US, Europe  
and Australia. These are partially offset by foreign currency – 
principally US dollar – denominated interest costs as the Group 
generally funds the acquisition of overseas companies using 
borrowings denominated in the same currency, which provides  
partial hedging of currency denominated profits. 
The Group considers that the US dollar, the Australian dollar, the  
euro and the Danish krone are its most important foreign currencies. 
After taking into account the partial hedging of the Group’s foreign 
exchange translation exposure within the income statement, a 
combined 10 cent movement in the average rate over one year  
for these currencies would result in a £10m impact on Group profit 
before tax. The Group estimates that the US dollar would account  
for approximately half of this movement.
All foreign exchange hedging transactions are approved under 
delegated authority from the Board. A number of financial 
instruments are used to manage transactional foreign exchange 
exposure, such as forward rate contracts. The Group has a policy  
of hedging at least 80% of estimated transactional exposure for  
the next 12 months, a proportion of exposures between 12 and  
36 months and firm exposures on long term contracts. Details  
of the most significant of these instruments are described in notes 
23 and 25 of the notes to the Group Financial Statements. 
Some 93% of the Group’s anticipated exposure to the pound sterling/
US dollar exchange rate movements is hedged for 2014 at an average 
rate of US$1.59. 
Interest rates 
The Group has various long and short term borrowings at both fixed 
and floating rates of interest. The Group continually monitors its 
exposure to movements in interest rates to bring greater stability  
and certainty to borrowing costs, with the policy being to assess  
26 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial Review continued the proportion of borrowings that are fixed and floating in the 
context of prevailing market conditions. 
Note 25 to the Group Financial Statements gives more details  
on the financial risks facing the Group.
Retirement obligations
The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes, the most 
significant being the Cobham Pension Plan (CPP). At 31 December 
2013, the estimated deficit for accounting purposes between the 
value of the defined benefit schemes’ assets and the present value  
of the future liabilities was £87m before deferred tax (2012: £73m). 
The principal movements in the deficit before tax during the year 
were as follows: 
£m
Pension deficit at 1 January 2013 (73)
Interest charge (3)
Actuarial loss relating to buy-in (39)
Other actuarial gains 13
Net employer funding 15
Pension deficit at 31 December 2013 (87)
The principal movement in the pension deficit in the year was the 
£39m actuarial loss, relating to the CPP buy-in arrangement. Further 
details of this buy-in are set out below. 
Other actuarial gains of £13m comprised:
•	 Strong investment returns on Scheme assets in the year;
•	 A gain from the triennial assessment of the personal 
demographics of Scheme members;
•	 These were partially offset by an increase in the assumed rate of 
salary rises (based on inflation), which increases the Scheme liabilities.
The £15m reduction in the deficit from net employer funding relates  
to employer contributions made in the year in excess of the Scheme 
service costs and administrative expenses.
During the year, the liabilities relating to the past service of CPP 
pensioners were subject to a buy-in arrangement whereby the CPP 
transferred assets in exchange for an insurance policy. This has 
eliminated the Group’s exposure to interest, inflation and longevity 
risks associated with liabilities amounting to £242m. Following the 
de-risking activity carried out in 2011 on other, smaller Group schemes, 
42% of total defined benefit pension liabilities are covered by insurance 
policies at the year end.
The Group’s defined benefit pension schemes have been closed  
to new entrants since 2003, with alternative defined contribution 
schemes offered in all cases. Cobham remains committed to the 
support of the legacy defined benefit pension schemes within the 
Group and continues to work with the trustees of those schemes  
to ensure that net deficit issues are managed appropriately. 
Further details on the Group’s retirement benefit schemes, the 
primary assumptions, the amounts recognised in operating profit  
and the changes in value of defined benefit schemes during the year 
are given in note 24 to the Group Financial Statements. 
Going concern 
The Group’s business activities, together with factors likely to affect 
its future development, performance and position, are set out in the 
Business overview on pages 2 to 21 and the principal risks on pages 
28 to 31. In addition, notes 23 and 25 of the notes to the Group 
Financial Statements include the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for managing its capital, financial risk management,  
details of financial instruments and hedging activities and its 
exposure to credit, liquidity and other risks. 
The Group has considerable financial resources together with  
long term contracts with a number of customers across different 
geographic areas. As a consequence, the Directors believe that  
the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully. 
Accordingly, after making enquiries, the Directors have formed  
a judgement at the time of approving the financial statements that  
it is their expectation that the Company and the Group as a whole 
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for  
the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the Group and Parent Company 
Financial Statements.
The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 35 has been approved by the 
Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
Simon Nicholls
Chief Financial Officer
5 March 2014
27 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
www.cobham.com The Board sets the policy for managing risks 
and recognises the importance of identifying, 
actively monitoring, mitigating and managing, 
as appropriate, the full range of financial and 
non-financial risks facing the business. By 
regularly reviewing the risk appetite of the 
business, the Board ensures that the Group’s 
risk exposure remains appropriate at any point 
in the economic cycle and links effectively into 
the management of its strategic objectives. 
The Board has ultimate accountability for risk 
management systems and controls, with the 
Risk Committee responsible for overseeing 
execution of risk management processes and 
procedures throughout the Group. The Audit 
Committee has delegated responsibility for 
monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness 
of the system. More details on the role of the 
Audit Committee in this regard are set out 
on pages 44 to 47 .
Sets strategic objectives;
Agrees the corporate risk register and Group’s risk appetite;
Monitors mitigating controls;
  Oversight of key risks and ensures 
they are appropriately managed;
  Monitors performance and changes in 
key risks facing the business and provides 
regular reports to the Board; and 
 Agrees key actions to manage risks.
 Identifies key risks at the entity level; and
 Establishes risk and control environment.
Identifying risks and business improvement 
actions in the businesses;
Responsible for design of controls to mitigate risk;
Implementing Group policies;
Reporting on progress; and
Providing management assurance.
Responsible for setting entity level controls;
Setting direction and tone;
 Des i g n i n g pol i c i es ;
 Introducing best practice;
Monitoring and ensuring compliance;
 Providing assurance oversight; and
Monitoring representation letters 
and self-assessment process.
Independent challenge;
Audit of key controls;
Formal reporting on assurance;
Audit of ‘Assurance Providers’; and
Entity level control.
 Internal Audit
 
  Provides independent challenge 
and assurance.
 Finance
 Risk and Insurance
 Legal and Compliance
 IT
  Corporate Responsibility 
and Sustainability (CR&S)
 Safety, Health & Environment (SHE)
 Human Resources
 
  Provides strategic management, 
policy and procedure setting, 
and functional oversight.
  Monitors assurance and risk 
management systems of control.
Sets delegation of authority; and
Approves Corporate Framework.
The process for monitoring and controlling 
risk, illustrated below, emphasises continuous 
evaluation and monitoring by Division 
Presidents, together with their respective 
management teams, including business unit 
management and functional management. 
The risk framework is structured to ensure 
that risks are identified promptly, mitigated 
and managed appropriately and that actions 
are undertaken that ensure alignment of 
performance with the Group’s Strategic Plan. 
The Group manages risk by operating a 
‘Three Lines of Assurance’ risk and control model. 
The first line lies with operational management 
implementing and maintaining effective internal 
controls and risk management procedures. 
They are supported by a number of oversight 
functions which form the second line. Internal 
Audit is the third line, trusted with reviewing 
controls and risk management processes and 
procedures, identifying areas for improvement 
and reporting to senior management and the 
Audit Committee. Due to its independence 
and objectivity, Internal Audit is able to provide 
reliable assurance on the effectiveness of 
the overall governance, risk management 
and internal control processes. In addition to 
considering the Group’s Internal Audit advice, 
the Audit Committee takes account of the 
views of our independent External Audit team. 
A description of the principal risks in the 
context of Cobham’s operations, together 
with a description of the potential impact 
on the Group if unaddressed, and an outline 
of the actions taken to mitigate them, 
are set out on pages 29 to 31. The risks are 
not intended to be in any particular order.
The Board
Risk Committee
Business Unit, SBU and Division
Independent Assurance
Oversight
Three Lines of Assurance
Audit Committee
28 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Principal Risks
2013 saw the further enhancement of the risk management process
How we monitor and control risk  Risk
The Group’s revenue is derived from global defence/security and 
commercial markets. The level and type of spending is dependent 
on a complex mix of macroeconomic, fiscal and strategic defence 
and security imperatives.
 Impact
Changes in government spending could lead to programme terminations 
or delays, or changes in market growth.
Deterioration in demand affecting short cycle business or a fundamental 
shift in how customers procure products or services could have an adverse 
effect on the Group’s future results.
 Impact
Failure to grow leads to an impaired competitive position, 
reduced trading margins and a declining return on invested capital. 
The Group will experience reputational damage and a reduced 
ability to invest for future growth.
 Mitigation
A review of near and long term market trends is conducted as part 
of the Group’s strategic planning process to ensure that actual and 
anticipated impacts from macroeconomic environment risks are 
managed effectively.
Increased emphasis on identifying adjacent markets in which the 
Group’s proven and transferable technologies can be applied. 
The Group is seeking more balance in its portfolio between its defence/
security and commercial markets, so it can grow through economic cycles. 
The successful completion of the EiD programme together with a 
culture of continuous improvement will enable the Group to have sector 
leading operating performance, while reducing costs. This will enable it 
to remain competitive in the face of volume declines or price pressures 
and retain flexibility to adjust the cost base appropriately to changing 
market conditions.
Regular review of market demand data, re-forecasting and adjusting 
planning in line with market demand.
 Mitigation
Effective strategic planning, maintain robust and dynamic strategic 
thinking processes to ensure the Group is exposed to growth markets 
through the economic cycle. 
Continued focus on and investment in programme management to 
ensure customer expectations are met underpins the Group’s ability 
to grow.
Appropriate investment in future technologies aligned to identified 
market growth areas. 
The Group remains focused on continuous improvement across 
all operations, including EiD, programme management, business 
development, functional excellence and strategic workforce planning.
 Risk
The Group’s ability to generate organic revenue and associated profit 
growth consistently is the key driver of value creation.
1
Deterioration in the macroeconomic 
environment adversely impacting 
our markets
2
Failure to execute on agreed 
strategy to return to sustainable 
organic revenue growth
29 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.cobham.com
Strategic Report  Risk
Underpinning the Group’s Strategic Plan 
is the identification of appropriate 
acquisition targets and the subsequent 
execution of value creating transactions.
 Risk
The success of the Group’s strategy is 
dependent on its ability to attract and 
retain talent and skills.
 Risk
The Group designs, develops and delivers 
products and services that are often 
customised, utilising complex technologies, 
under fixed price contracts that are sometimes 
long term in nature. This gives rise to the risks 
of failure to execute the contract profitably, 
the supply of a defective or delayed product, 
the incurrence of other contractually related 
liabilities, or damage to reputation and 
commercial relationships.
 Impact
Failure to complete appropriate transactions 
impacts the Group’s ability to generate 
shareholder value. 
 Impact
Lacking all the skills necessary to execute 
on growth plans and deliver key customer 
programmes leads to reduced customer 
confidence in the Group and a degraded 
financial outlook.
 Impact
Failure by Cobham to execute or deliver a 
contract gives rise to increased programme 
costs, contract penalties, litigation and 
other financial liabilities, reduced future 
profitability and reputational risk.
Poor operational performance could also 
lead to customers withholding new and 
existing business from the Group.
 Mitigation
The implementation of rigorous M&A 
disciplines, aligned with the Group’s strategic 
planning process, improves the ability to 
successfully execute transactions.
The Group has a rigorous post-acquisition 
review process to ensure that targeted returns 
are achieved and lessons learnt shared.
The Group continually monitors whether it 
has capable resources in place to manage 
M&A projects from origination to integration.
The Group’s capital allocation strategy 
includes a willingness to return capital 
to investors, in the absence of value 
enhancing acquisitions. 
 Mitigation
The Group is implementing a Strategic 
Workforce Plan, aligned with the Group’s 
overall strategy, to ensure it has the right 
people with the right skills in the right place.
It has established an integrated management 
training and appraisal programme.
The Group is expanding its graduate 
recruitment and apprenticeships programmes. 
The Group is committed to providing its 
employees with a safe working environment. 
 Mitigation
A thorough review of the business case 
and terms and conditions, and subsequent 
variations, prior to signing ensures contract 
provisions and risks are fairly allocated 
between parties.
The Group has established an EVP, Life 
Cycle Management (LCM) and Programme 
Management position, to ensure its key 
contract and programme management 
policies and procedures are applied 
consistently and appropriately across 
all areas of the business, and to provide 
increased focus on improvements 
to its programme management and 
LCM capabilities. 
Monthly reporting of progress against 
agreed improvement actions on LCM 
to the Group Executive, and semi-annually 
to the Audit Committee.
3
Failure to identify and 
execute value creating 
M&A to supplement 
organic growth
4
Inability to attract, 
retain and develop 
the best talent, leading 
to a shortage of key skills
5
Contract risk 
and execution
30 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Principal Risks continued  Risk
The Group’s financial results are dependent 
on managing macro financial risks, including 
inflation, currency and commodity.
 Risk
The Group’s business could be impacted 
by natural disasters affecting its 
operational locations, by IT systems 
failures or by cyber attack, rendering 
critical systems unworkable. 
 Risk
Cobham operates in a highly regulated 
environment and is subject to the laws, 
regulations and restrictions of many 
jurisdictions, including those of the US, 
the UK and other countries.
These include anti-bribery provisions, 
import and export controls, and 
government contracting rules. 
 Impact
Failure to manage financial risks can impact 
operating profit through higher costs or 
lower revenue and result in the Group failing 
to meet its financial results forecast.
 Impact
Unscheduled interruption to business 
activities would result in reduced profits, 
loss of customer satisfaction, potential 
cost outlays, and reputational impact. 
 Impact
Sanctions for failure by the Group, or 
its sales intermediaries, or others acting 
on its behalf to comply with these laws, 
regulations and restrictions could include 
fines, penalties, legal claims, suspension 
or debarment of the Group from future 
government contracts for a period of time, 
as well as having an impact on the Group’s 
reputation. Such sanctions could have 
an impact on the Group‘s financial position 
and future operations.
 Mitigation
Currency risks are considered as part of the bid 
approval process on large contracts. Cobham 
puts currency or other hedges in place for at 
least 80% of estimated transactional exposure 
for a rolling 12 months, a proportion of 
exposures between 12 and 36 months and 
firm exposures on long term contracts.
The Group sources and manufactures in 
local currency whenever practicable.
The Group manages inflation and commodity 
pricing risks through appropriate contractual 
terms, with suppliers contracted on an 
equivalent basis to match residual risks 
where possible.
Minimum/maximum supplier prices are 
stipulated where possible to avoid unlimited 
exposure, when there is a risk that costs 
inflate ahead of revenue. Fixed price quotes 
are avoided for commodity related costs.
 Mitigation
The Group maintains major incident and IT 
failure business continuity plans. All employees 
are trained in the relevant procedures. 
IT security and capability are continually 
monitored and strengthened when needed.
The Group works closely with insurers to 
ensure operating infrastructure and processes 
include robust risk improvement activities.
 Mitigation
Cobham continues to drive a culture that 
ensures that safety, ethics and integrity 
are embodied in all that it does.
Policies and procedures are included 
in the Group’s Corporate Framework, which 
is regularly reviewed and audited, including 
procedures related to the use of sales and 
marketing representatives, anti-bribery 
and anti-corruption, gifts and hospitality, 
whistleblowing and investigation 
of ethics and compliance concerns.
Mandatory training is undertaken on a 
variety of compliance related subjects, 
including US Government contracting, 
anti-bribery and corruption.
6
Long term contract exposures 
to inflation, currency and 
commodity pricing fluctuations
7
Significant business 
interruption
8
Failure to comply with laws, 
regulations and restrictions
31 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.cobham.com
Strategic Report Approach
Cobham believes that acting responsibly and sustainably aligns 
with its business strategy and creates value for all key stakeholders. 
The Group’s strategy is to make Corporate Responsibility and 
Sustainability (CR&S) part of everything it does by:
1. Pursuing the highest ethical standards in all aspects 
of its business;
2. Building a culture in which talented employees can 
succeed and are rewarded;
3. Providing a safe working environment;
4. Managing the environmental impacts of the Group’s 
products, services and operations.
CR&S covers issues identified by internal and external stakeholders 
(shareholders, business partners, regulators, industry bodies, 
employees and communities) that support or limit the Group’s 
ability to execute its strategy and protect its reputation.
The CEO has overall responsibility for the Group’s approach. He is 
supported by the CR&S Committee, which he chairs, in ensuring that 
appropriate policies, monitoring and operational systems are in place 
to achieve the Group’s objectives. The CEO updates the Board on CR&S 
matters. The Board in turn assesses the significance of environmental, 
social and corporate governance risks and opportunities to the Group’s 
Strategic Plan. 
There is strong alignment between the Group’s CR&S focus and 
its strategic priorities. Refer to page 12 for more details on these.
CR&S Strategic priorities
1234567
Business ethics and compliance •••••••
Sustainable supply chain • •••
Talent management •• •••
Diversity and inclusion ••• • •
Health and safety • • •••
Environmental sustainability ••• •••
Each of the focus areas are discussed in more detail below.
Cobham’s approach to Corporate Responsibility 
and Sustainability is designed to engender trust 
with its key stakeholders and ensure that the 
Company thrives over the long term.
Objectives and performance
Business ethics and compliance
Strengthen the Group’s ethics and compliance processes 
to ensure that employees have clear guidance to support 
them in making ethical decisions
Non-compliance with governmental regulations is recognised 
as one of Cobham’s principal risks. For more detail on how 
this risk is being managed, see risk eight on page 31. 
Cobham pursues the highest ethical standards in all aspects of its 
business through its ethics and compliance programme, overseen 
by the Business Ethics and Compliance Committee. This creates the 
knowledge, structures and processes to drive a culture of integrity 
and ethical behaviour.
The ethics and compliance programme is supported by mandatory 
annual training for all employees.
The Code of Business Conduct (the Code) is the cornerstone of 
Cobham’s approach to ethics and compliance and is made available 
to all employees in the Group’s key languages. A number of other 
policies support the Code in driving a culture of safety, ethics and 
integrity to help Cobham face the risks posed by the markets in 
which it operates, both sector and geographic. 
The Code sets out the Group’s expectations – and advice – on ethical 
behaviour and how to deal with possible breaches. Cobham fosters 
an open reporting culture reinforced by an independent third party 
ethics helpline.
Key supporting policies include the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 
(ABAC) Policy. This sets out the policy of zero tolerance towards 
bribery and corruption with further direction on gifts, hospitality 
and the use of sales intermediaries. 
Business ethics
KPI:
100%
of employees have completed the Code of Business 
Conduct training
(2012: 99%)
32 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Sustainable supply chain
Develop a responsible and sustainable supply chain that 
prioritises and mitigates material ethical, environmental 
and community risks
The Group has a number of controls and processes to mitigate issues 
(including human rights) that may arise in regard to the supply chain, 
most notably in connection with principal risk seven. Refer to page 31 
for more details. 
The Group outsources an increasingly significant proportion of 
component manufacture to suppliers, and then assembles and tests 
finished products in-house. Recognising the various issues that may 
arise, Cobham’s strategy is for its supply chain to be responsible and 
sustainable, which also includes having regard to human rights 
considerations. To achieve this, Cobham has developed, in support 
of the Code, a Responsible Supply Chain Management Policy (RSCM), 
setting out its expectations for suppliers to have effective ethical, 
environmental and community risk management systems appropriate 
for the nature and scale of their business. This addresses those risks 
most likely to impact suppliers’ ability to meet Cobham’s needs.
Cobham has rolled out the RSCM policy and approach to its principal 
locations and is providing training and support on prioritising risks 
for key spend categories.
Specifically, Cobham has developed a process to report on conflict 
minerals present in its products to those customers required to disclose 
under US legislation and in anticipation of similar EU legislation, which 
is likely to impact Cobham directly.
Moving forward, Cobham will continue to implement its responsible 
supply chain management policy through training and assessment 
of its principal locations. 
Talent management
Continue to ensure the Group has the right people 
with the right skills to execute its strategy
Employee retention and development are recognised as one of the 
Group’s principal risks. For more details on how we are managing this, 
see risk four on page 30.
As a high-tech engineering and service group, Cobham continues to 
require the highest calibre functional expertise and future leadership 
to deliver its business strategy. Attracting and retaining the very best 
is an increasing challenge as the number of science and engineering 
graduates is declining. A dedicated Cobham resourcing team has 
Talent management
KPI:
6.9%
voluntary staff turnover
(2012: 8.7%)
increased awareness of the Cobham employer brand (Innovators with 
Insight) in the recruitment marketplace.
The Group’s strategic high potential talent development programmes 
range from entry level (apprentices and graduates) to senior and 
functional experts aimed at developing a robust internal talent 
pipeline. The programmes all include rigorous assessments to ensure 
Cobham accesses the brightest and best individuals. Apprentice and 
graduate schemes commence with placement based roles to blend 
on-the-job training and project activity with formal learning. Many of 
Cobham’s UK apprentices achieve recognition through national award 
programmes. The graduate programme aims to attract high potential 
individuals from targeted universities within priority disciplines. 
Cobham has invested in the development of an online Learning and 
Development Centre (LDC). The centre provides blended learning 
activities that are linked to Cobham’s defined competencies. During 
201 3, a total of 1,473 hours of learning was completed by 366 employees 
within the first three months of the LDC launch. A certified management 
programme was developed and piloted through the LDC in 201 3. This 
will produce a consistent standard and approach to line management 
across the Group.
Cobham is implementing a strategic workforce planning process 
that will allow the business to better plan its resourcing requirements. 
During 2013, the Group developed a global view of its workforce 
by functional area and by location.
Moving forward, Cobham is planning to further expand its graduate 
development programme into Denmark and South Africa, utilise 
the strategic workforce planning data to assess its workforce 
requirements against business activity over the next five years, 
and launch its certified management programme globally.
Cobham has once again been successful in the Brathay Apprentice 
Challenge, reaching the 2013 finals. Cobham’s apprentices regularly 
receive a variety of external awards for both team and individual 
achievements: in 2013, 27% of the apprentice population received 
such recognition, improving on the 8% in 2012.
High performing apprentices
33 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.cobham.com
Strategic Report Diversity and inclusion
Benchmark the Group’s diversity and inclusion against 
publicly available data for its comparator group
The Group is committed to equal opportunities for all its employees and 
aims to ensure the workplace is free from discrimination. Recruitment, 
selection and career development are based on competence and job 
requirements, irrespective of race, sex, sexual preference, religion or 
disability. With regard to employees who become disabled, the policy 
is to take all reasonable steps, including retraining, to ensure that they 
can remain in employment wherever practicable.
A lack of diversity and an inability to attract and retain the best talent 
are risks to the Group; refer to principal risk four on page 30.
Cobham has been monitoring its gender, age and ethnic diversity since 
2008. In 2013, it reviewed its diversity and benchmarked itself against 
industry peers using publicly available data. The results showed that 
Cobham generally equals or exceeds them. Overall, the Group trend 
over the past five years has been that the percentage of women in the 
total workforce and in management positions has marginally declined, 
although recent graduate recruitment includes an increasing intake 
of women. 
Health and safety
Continue to embed health and safety into the Group’s 
core business processes 
Diversity and inclusion
KPI: 
13%
female senior managers*
(2012: 11%)
Health and safety
KPI: 
326
major accident incidence rate* 
(2012: 666)
* Per 100,000 employees
11 %
women on the Board
(2012: 11%)
27%
female employees 
in the Group 
(2012: 27%)
9%
female senior managers** 
(2012: 7%)
*  Legal definition (Directors of legal entities) 
** Cobham’s definition (Vice Presidents and above)
Cobham Antenna Systems in Marlow, UK was a finalist in the 
prestigious Institute of Occupational Safety and Health Awards 
for Safety in Manufacturing following the success of a zero 
harm initiative that has improved the site’s SHE culture.
SHP-IOSH awards finalist
Cobham is committed to providing its employees with a safe working 
environment and considers it key to talent retention and recruitment. 
Cobham addresses workplace safety, health and environment (SHE) 
together through the Code and SHE policy. The Group is committed 
to creating a culture in which all employees take responsibility for 
themselves, their fellow workers, contractors, visitors and the 
general public.
The policy is implemented through a standardised management 
approach. All business units are required to achieve at least a basic 
level of performance and follow a programme of continuous 
improvement. Assurance is obtained through independent peer 
reviews and external audits.
Progress is monitored through an Executive-led steering committee, 
which reports to the Group Executive and Board Audit Committee. 
SHE considerations are integrated into the annual strategic planning 
and standardised business integration processes. 
A review of the way in which the Group resources SHE was undertaken 
in 2013 and, as a result of this review, actions will be taken to strength 
the SHE function over the coming years.
34 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability continued Environmental sustainability
Reduce the Group’s environmental impacts and mitigate 
the environment’s impact on the Group
As Aviation Services successfully grows, by operating more aircraft or 
achieving higher utilisation of the existing fleet, energy consumption 
will also increase. Management of the Group’s aviation and non-aviation 
emissions are therefore separated. Aviation fuel use intensity (fuel burn 
per operational flying hour for all aircraft) is now reported in addition 
to facility energy use intensity. Details of the Group’s greenhouse gas 
emissions data are included on page 66 of the Directors’ Report.
Moving forward, Cobham will continue to target reduced impacts 
from its products, facilities and supply chain on the environment 
and to manage the impact of the environment on the Group.
Cobham and its insurers, FM Global, have won an Insurance 
Partnership of the Year award from Continuity, Insurance and 
Risk magazine. 
Over the past eight years, Cobham and FM Global have been 
working together to ensure the Group’s principal locations reach 
and maintain the coveted Highly Protected Risk status through 
compliance with FM Global standards.
This level of business continuity management enables our 
principal locations to mitigate the risks associated with adverse 
weather events such as flooding.
Greenhouse gas emissions
KPI: 
51 tonnes
Total Scope 1 carbon dioxide equivalent per £m turnover*
(2012: 54 tCO
2
e/£m)
27 tonnes
Total Scope 2 carbon dioxide equivalent per £m turnover*
(2012: 30 tCO
2
e/£m)
* Scope one, two and three are further explained within the Directors’ Report, page 66.
Facility resilience award 
The Group has a number of mitigating actions in place to reduce the 
risks associated with environmental sustainability. See principal risk 
seven on page 31. 
Cobham’s SHE policy sets out its commitment to environmental 
sustainability through product stewardship (from resource extraction 
to end-of-life), resource efficiency and climate change initiatives. With 
respect to the environment, Cobham’s aim is to continuously improve 
its resource efficiency (raw materials, energy and natural resources) 
and reduce its use of hazardous substances wherever possible. 
Cobham often designs products which are smaller, lighter and less 
power consumptive than competitors’ products. In doing so, it has 
an opportunity to generate significant benefits for its customers and 
the environment. This objective is being built into the principal locations’ 
standardised design review processes. 
Hazardous Materials legislation is having an increasing impact on industry 
by phasing out certain materials at a pace quicker than viable alternatives 
can be identified, tested and certified for use. Cobham is actively 
monitoring the impacts of this legislation and engaging regulators to 
develop suitable solutions through its industry association memberships.
Climate change is affecting the Group’s regulatory regime and operations 
to varying degrees based on geography and market. The principal impacts 
relate to product, facility and supply chain resilience. The majority (84%) 
of Cobham’s direct Scope 1 and 95% of Cobham’s indirect scope 3 
greenhouse gas emissions come from aviation fuel consumption 
in the Aviation Services business. 
   Further detail on Cobham’s CR&S approach, objectives and 
performance is available at www.cobhamsustainability.com.
228 tonnes
Total Scope 3 carbon dioxide equivalent per £m turnover*
(2012: 214 tCO
2
e/£m)
35 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report Appointed: Director February 2010,  
Chairman May 2010 
Skills and experience: John’s executive career was 
built in engineering companies within the Verity 
Group. John has previously served as Non-executive 
Director of Northern Rock Asset Management 
(between 2007 and 2010) and Chairman of Marconi 
plc, later renamed Telent. He was President of Perkins 
Engines in the mid-1980s, and he went on to be 
President of Kelsey-Hayes, the automotive 
components manufacturer. He was subsequently 
Chief Executive of Eastern Electricity, the largest 
regional electricity company in the UK at the time. 
Following its acquisition by Hanson, he was appointed 
Executive Chairman of Hanson. John retired from his 
role as Non-executive Chairman of National Express 
Group plc on 31 January 2013.
External appointments: Non-executive Chairman  
of NATS, the National Air Traffic Services.
Committee membership: Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee. 
Appointed: November 2005
Skills and experience: John qualified in medicine in 
1971 and obtained a Membership (now Fellowship) of 
the Royal College of Physicians in 1974. He joined ICI 
(now AstraZeneca) in 1975 and in December 2004 was 
appointed to the main Board as Executive Director 
responsible for development. He retired as a Director  
of ICI in March 2009. He is a former President of the 
Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry, a 
former Non-executive Director of Amersham plc and  
a former member of the supervisory Board of the UK 
Medicines Control Agency. 
External appointments: Non-executive Director  
of Ferring Holding SA.
Committee membership: Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and a member of the 
Nomination Committee .
Appointed: June 2012
Skills and experience: Bob was with BAE Systems  
for 13 years from 1999, serving as a member of the 
Executive Committee of BAE Systems plc as Executive 
Vice President for the global operations of the Product 
Sectors business for BAE Systems, Inc. including its 
Electronic Systems, Land & Armaments and Platform 
Solutions sectors. He has also held a number of other 
senior operational and financial roles with BAE Systems. 
Prior to this, Bob spent 18 years with General Electric 
where he held numerous financial leadership positions, 
culminating in his role as CFO of the military engines 
operation of the GE Aircraft Engines Group. Previously, 
Bob has served on the Board of Trustees for the US 
National Defense Industrial Association and the Board 
of Visitors for the Clark School of Engineering at the 
University of Maryland.
External appointments: None.
Committee membership: Executive  
Directors Committee.
Appointed: December 2010
Skills and experience: Michael worked for KPMG 
from 1973 until 2009 when he retired. Between 2005 
and 2009, he was International Chief Executive Officer, 
KPMG, Chairman, KPMG International Executive Team, 
and Chairman, KPMG Iberoamerica Board. He was 
formerly the Prime Minister’s Envoy for Reconstruction 
in Southern Iraq. 
External appointments: Non-executive Director 
and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Wolseley plc 
and Senior Independent Non-executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee of Intertek Group 
plc. Economic Development Adviser to the 
Government of Afghanistan.
Committee membership: Chairman of the  
Audit Committee and member of the  
Nomination Committee.
Appointed: May 2013
Skills and experience: Simon was CFO of Senior plc, 
the FTSE 250 international manufacturing group 
providing engineered products for aerospace, defence 
and commercial industrial applications, a position he 
held from 2008. Previously, Simon was CFO of Hanson 
North America and prior to that he was Financial 
Controller for Hanson plc for three years. Simon spent 
nine years with Price Waterhouse, now PwC, in the UK 
and Canada, and four years working in senior financial 
positions. Simon served as a Non-executive Director  
of AIM listed Hamworthy plc from September 201 1  
until its takeover in February 2012. Simon is a Chartered 
Accountant, holding a Bachelor of Science degree in 
Mathematics, Operational Research, Statistics and 
Economics from the University of Warwick.
External appointments: None.
Committee membership: Executive  
Directors Committee.
Appointed: January 2007
Skills and experience: Mark was, until his retirement 
at the end of 2006, Chief Operating Officer of BAE 
Systems plc and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, 
Inc., its wholly-owned US subsidiary. Previously, he was 
Vice-President, Programme Management with Litton 
Industries and Chief Operating Officer of AEL Industries. 
Mark was a Non-executive Director of ATK Inc. 
External appointments: Non-executive Director  
of Beechcraft Holdings LLC. and Aeroflex Holdings,  
Inc., senior adviser of Veritas Capital LLC. and  
a management consultant.
Committee membership: Member of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
36 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Board of Directors
1. J Devaney
Non-executive Chairman
BEng, CEng, FIMechE, FIEE
Age 66
4. M Wareing
Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director CMG, FCA, FCCA, MCSI
Age 60
2. R (Bob) Murphy
Chief Executive Officer, Executive 
Director
Age 56
5. J Patterson
Independent Non-executive Director
CBE, MBChB, FRCP, Fmed Sci
Age 66
3. S Nicholls
Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director
BSc (Hons), ACA
Age 49
6. M Ronald
Independent Non-executive Director
CBE, BA, BScEE, MScEE
Age 72
Independent Directors Appointed: December 2008
Skills and experience: Mike served in the US Marine 
Corps for almost 39 years ending his career in 2007  
as Commandant of the Marine Corps and a member  
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. His numerous military 
assignments included Commanding General, 1st Marine 
Expeditionary Force, Deputy Director of Operations  
at the US European Command and Executive Assistant 
to the Director of Central Intelligence. He also served  
in a number of diplomatic missions including the 
presidential diplomatic mission to Somalia.
External appointments: President and CEO of the 
Admiral Nimitz Foundation in Fredericksburg, T exas, US, 
Co-Chairman of the National Security Advisory Council  
for the Center of US Global Engagement and US Global 
Leadership Campaign, Non-executive Director of SGI Corp., 
Kaseman LLC., DynCorp International Inc. and Freedom 
Group Inc., and Outside Director on the Government 
Security Committee of the Special Security Agreement  
of TE SubCom, a TE Connectivity Limited company.
Committee membership: Member of the Audit  
and Nomination Committees.
STRUCTURE OF THE REPORT
The section that follows on corporate 
governance is intended to give shareholders 
a clear and comprehensive picture of the 
Group’s governance arrangements and how 
they operated during the year. Page 39 sets 
out details of the areas of the Board’s focus 
during the year, while descriptions of how 
the Group complied with each Principle and 
Provision of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code are set out on pages 68 and 69.
Appointed: July 2011
Skills and experience: Alison is currently engaged 
with a mix of not for profit and non-executive activities. 
She was formerly Global Director Corporate 
Development & Strategy for National Grid plc. 
Previously, she was Group Strategic Development 
Director for BAE Systems plc responsible for corporate 
strategy, mergers and acquisitions and strategic 
business development across the UK and US. She  
has held three previous Non-executive Directorships: 
BTG plc from 2004 to 2008, THUS plc from 2007  
to 2008 and GCHQ from 2009 to 2011. 
External appointments: Chairman of Aerospace, 
Aviation and Defence Knowledge Transfer Network. 
Appointed Non-executive Director and Senior 
Independent Director of e2v technologies plc,  
1 7 July 2013. Appointed Non-executive Director of 
Costain plc, 1 February 2014 and will become Chair  
of their Remuneration Committee from 1 April 2014.
Committee membership: Member of the 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Appointed: May 2013
Skills and experience: Jonathan is currently Chief 
Executive of Oxford Instruments plc, a leading provider 
of high technology tools and systems for research and 
industry, a position he has held since 2005. Prior to this, 
he was the UK Managing Director of Vislink plc and has 
also held management positions with BAE Systems and 
GEC Marconi Avionics. A physics graduate from Imperial 
College London, Jonathan was made a CBE in 2012.
External appointments: Chief Executive of Oxford 
Instruments plc. Jonathan was appointed as a 
Non-executive Director of Andor Technology plc,  
in January 2014.
Committee membership: Member of the Audit  
and Nomination Committees.
Board meeting attendance for 2013
Number of meetings attended/held
J Devaney 9/9
R Murphy 9/9
S Nicholls
1
5/5
W Tucker
2
4/4
M Beresford
3
4/4
M Hagee 9/9
J Patterson 9/9
M Ronald 9/9
M Wareing
4
8/9
A Wood 9/9
D Flint
5
5/5
1
 S Nicholls appointed on 1 May 2013.
2
 W Tucker retired from the Board on 1 May 2013.
3
 M Beresford retired from the Board on 25 April 2013. 
4
 M Wareing had been hospitalised before the February 
meeting, which he could not attend. 
5
 D Flint appointed on 1 May 2013.
37 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance
www.cobham.com
7. M Hagee
Independent Non-executive Director
Age 69
8. A Wood 
Independent Non-executive Director
MA, MBA
Age 50
9. D (Jonathan) Flint
Independent Non-executive Director
CBE, MBA, BSc, FREng, FInstP
Age 53
Independent Directors continued This part of the Annual Report and Accounts, together with the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report set out on pages 48 to 63, describes 
how the Company has applied and complied with the principles 
contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code published in 
September 2012 (the Code). The Code is published by the Financial 
Reporting Council and is available from its website www.frc.org.uk. 
A high level summary of our compliance with the Code is shown  
on pages 68 and 69.
Statement of compliance with the provisions of the Code
The Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. In 
accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the 
Company confirms that, throughout the year ended 31 December 
2013 and at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, it was 
compliant with the provisions of the Code. 
Share capital
Details of the share capital of the Company and the powers of  
the Directors in relation to allotment, issue and market purchase  
of shares are given in the Directors’ Report on page 64. 
The Board composition
The Board comprises a Non-executive Chairman (John Devaney),  
a CEO (Bob Murphy), a CFO (Simon Nicholls) and six other Non-executive 
Directors of whom Mike Wareing is the Senior Independent Director.  
All Non-executive Directors are considered to be independent and the 
Chairman was considered to be independent on appointment. They  
all held office throughout the year except Simon Nicholls and Jonathan 
Flint, who both joined the Board on 1 May 201 3. Warren Tucker, the 
former CFO, stood down from the Board on 1 May 201 3. Marcus 
Beresford stood down from the Board, having completed nine years  
as a Non-executive Director, at the conclusion of the 201 3 AGM.
Biographies of the Directors, giving details of their experience and  
other significant commitments, are set out on pages 36 and 37 .  
The wide ranging experience and backgrounds of the Non-executive 
Directors enable them to support, debate and constructively challenge 
management in relation to both the development of strategy and  
the performance of the Group. The attendance of Directors at Board 
meetings is set out on page 37 and attendance at principal Board 
committee meetings as members of such committees during the year  
is set out in the reports from each committee on pages 42, 44 and 48. 
Non-executive Directors are appointed for specified terms of three 
years, which can be extended by agreement provided that the 
individual’s performance continues to be effective. The rules for the 
appointment and replacement of Directors are set out in the Company’s 
Articles of Association (the Articles), copies of which can be obtained 
from Companies House in the UK or by contacting the Company 
Secretary. Changes to the Articles must be approved by shareholders 
passing a special resolution. The Directors and the Company (in the 
latter case by ordinary resolution) may appoint a person who is willing 
to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director. 
All Non-executives have confirmed they have sufficient time to meet 
their time commitments to the Group. Copies of their appointment 
letters are available on request to the Company Secretary and will be 
available for inspection at the AGM. 
In accordance with the Code, which recommends that all Directors  
of FTSE350 companies seek re-election by shareholders on an annual 
basis, all Directors currently in office will retire and seek re-election  
at the AGM. In addition, Simon Nicholls and Jonathan Flint, who were 
appointed to the Board on 1 May 2013, are seeking election by 
shareholders at the 2014 AGM for the first time. 
 
The Board has set out in the circular a resolution to elect Simon Nicholls 
as an Executive Director and Jonathan Flint as a Non-executive Director 
and explains why it believes they should be elected. The Chairman 
confirms to shareholders when proposing election or re-appointment 
that the individual’s performance continues to be effective and that  
the individual continues to demonstrate commitment to the role. 
Non-executive Directors are subject to Companies Act provisions 
relating to the removal of a Director.
The Chairman is, among other things, responsible for chairing Board 
meetings and leading the Board. The CEO’s responsibilities include 
development and implementation of the Group’s strategy, operational 
performance and corporate social responsibility. He also focuses on 
long term growth and development of the Group, its people and 
customer relationships. The Board’s policy is that the roles of 
Chairman and CEO should be performed by different people. 
The Senior Independent Director’s responsibilities include the provision 
of an additional channel of communication between the Chairman and 
the Non-executive Directors. He also provides another point of contact 
for shareholders if they have concerns that communication through the 
normal channels of Chairman, CEO or CFO has failed to resolve, or 
where these contacts are inappropriate. 
Marcus Beresford stood down as Non-executive Director and Senior 
Independent Director at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM. The role  
of Senior Independent Director was assumed by Michael Wareing 
following Marcus’ retirement.
38 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance Report Dear Shareholder
As I mention in my Chairman’s Statement 
earlier in this report, 2013 has been a year of 
significant activity. The Board has been busy 
refining the strategic objectives and ensuring 
the structure is in place to position the business 
to achieve the Group’s Strategic Plan.
EiD is transitioning to continuous improvement 
initiatives and the streamlining of business 
operations continues.
The key focus for the Board during 2013  
has been supporting the Executive Directors, 
both of whom are relatively new to the Group, 
to put in place the strategic enablers needed  
to achieve the Group’s Strategic Plan. This  
has involved revisiting the constitution of the 
senior management team with more emphasis 
placed on customer relationships, operational 
excellence and the development of our talent.
Our markets in 2014 will continue to challenge 
and we will continue to work hard to respond 
to those challenges. I trust we can rely on your 
support for the foreseeable future.
J Devaney 
Chairman
Role and focus
The Board’s main duties are to: 
•	 Lead the Group with a view to the creation of strong, 
sustainable financial performance and long term  
shareholder value;
•	 Review and agree Group strategy;
•	 Ensure that the necessary resources are in place;
•	 Monitor management performance; and
•	 Supervise the conduct of the Group’s activities within  
a framework of prudent and effective internal controls.
Highlights of 2013
•	 The Board and senior management devoted additional  
time to the further development of the Group’s strategy;
•	 Talent and succession planning has been high on the agenda, 
with various initiatives implemented to ensure we have the 
right resources to deliver our strategic objectives;
•	 Approved the acquisition of the Axell and FB Heliservices  
groups of companies;
•	 Overseen the search and appointment of a new CFO;
•	 Overseen the restructuring of the senior management group;
•	 Evaluated and approved six large bid submissions above 
authority limits delegated to the Executive Directors outside  
of the regular Board meeting agenda; and
•	 Monitored the progression of the EiD programme and approved 
the transition to a continuous improvement initiative, with 
resource within the business to progress this further.
Priorities for 2014
•	 Review performance against agreed strategic enablers;
•	 Continued focus on market evaluation and strategic development;
•	 Continued rebalance of the portfolio towards the  
commercial market; and
•	 Oversight of Strategic Workforce Plan and  
organisational realignment.
Board meetings, scheduled in accordance with the annual timetable, 
take place five times a year on a face to face basis, four times a year  
by telephone and otherwise as required. There is contact between 
meetings to progress the Group’s business as required. Meetings were 
held at the head office in Wimborne, at the Company’s London office 
and at an international operational location (Exeter in the US). In 
addition, the Senior Independent Director held a meeting with the 
Non-executives in the absence of the Chairman to appraise the 
Chairman’s performance. The Chairman has held meetings with  
the Non-executives in the absence of the Executive Directors. 
The Board’s role is to lead the Group with a view to the creation of strong, 
sustainable financial performance and long term shareholder value.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its specific 
approval. The schedule provides the framework for those decisions 
which can be made by the Board and those which can be delegated 
either to committees or otherwise. Among the key matters on which 
the Board alone may make decisions are the Group’s business strategy, 
its five year plan, its consolidated budget, Group policies, dividends, 
acquisitions and disposals, and all appointments to and removals from 
39 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance
www.cobham.com
The Board and its proceedings
Overview Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
 Interim 2013
results
Webcast & 
conference 
call
Interim 
Management 
Statement
*
Conference 
call
Interim 
Management 
Statement
*
Investor 
conferences
Investor conferences 
& industry exhibitions
Investor 
conferences
Site visits
Industry 
exhibitions
Site visit Site visits
Investor meetings Investor meetings
Webcast & 
conference 
call
Investor 
conferences
Preliminary 
2012 results
Performance evaluation
The Board conducts an evaluation of its activities on an annual basis. 
During 2013, the Board and its committees undertook an internal 
evaluation. The evaluation included the circulation of a questionnaire. 
The Board considered the output and has approved an action plan  
to address issues arising. 
A table of actions instigated by this and the previous performance 
evaluation is included above.
Financial reporting
In the Directors’ view, the Annual Report and Accounts for 2013, 
together with the interim management statements, the interim 
report and other reports made during the year, present a fair, 
balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s position 
and prospects. 
The Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing  
the Annual Report and Accounts as stated in the Financial Review  
on page 27.
Shareholder relations
A summary of the 2013 activity by our Investor Relations team  
is shown below. 
the Board. Authority is delegated to management on a structured 
basis in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Framework 
ensuring that proper management oversight exists at the appropriate 
level. Matters delegated in this way include, within defined 
parameters, the approval of bids and contracts, capital expenditures 
and financing arrangements. 
The Board has adopted procedures relating to the conduct of its 
business, including the timely provision of information, and the 
Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that these are 
observed and for advising the Board on corporate governance 
matters. The Company Secretary is appointed, and can only be 
removed, by the Board.
If a Director were to have a concern which cannot be resolved,  
it would be recorded in the Board minutes. On resignation,  
Non-executive Directors are invited to provide a written statement 
to the Chairman for circulation to the Board if they have concerns. 
No such statements were made during 2013.
All potential situational and transactional conflicts of interest  
are disclosed, noted and authorised. Procedures are in place  
and operating effectively to keep such disclosures up to date.
*Interim Management Statement is a short quarterly update on the Group’s trading, significant events and financial position.
Evaluation year Observations Actions taken
2012
The risk management process needs to be strengthened with clear 
delineation between the work of the Risk and Audit Committees  
and the Board.
The Risk Committee was strengthened during 201 3 with the membership 
expanded to include the Group Executive. The risk appetite statement  
was considered, approved and published during the year.
More rigour should be placed around paper compilation  
and submission.
The substance of reports was improved and a standard reporting  
format adopted, introducing a more timely and efficient process.
Senior management objectives need to be visible to the  
Board to support talent and succession planning.
 Objectives for the Group Executive were presented to the Board for  
review. Opportunities for the Board to meet members of the Cobham 
high potential programme will continue to be pursued.
2013 Members of the Group Executive should be provided with 
opportunities to present to the Board on their areas of the  
business to provide more exposure to the Board members.
Presentations from the Group Executive to be built into the Board 
Work Plan for 2014.
Continued development of the strategic planning process. A two day Board meeting in 2014 has been added to the Board schedule, 
with the business of that meeting devoted purely to strategy. Ongoing 
strategic updates form part of the rolling Board agenda.
40 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance Report continued Contract Bid 
Approval
Merger & 
Acquisitions
Corporate 
Responsibility 
& Sustainability
Business Ethics 
& Compliance
Internal Audit 
Sub-committee
Talent Board
Principal Board Committees Management Committees
Board of Directors
Audit 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Executive Directors 
Committee
The Board is ultimately 
responsible for corporate 
governance and the Group’s 
system of internal control, 
with day to day responsibility 
resting with management.
Group Executive (incorporating the Risk Committee)
Safety, Health 
& Environment
A full programme of engagement with investors and analysts,  
both in the UK and overseas, is undertaken each year by the CEO,  
CFO and Director of Investor Relations, including presentations,  
industry exhibitions, roadshows and site visits. Site visits are hosted  
by senior members of management within the business units and  
are intended to give investors detailed insight and access to the 
business’ operations.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance and 
activities of the Group and engages in regular dialogue with them. During 
the year, the CEO and the CFO held regular meetings with shareholders  
to discuss information made public by the Group. A wide range of business 
and corporate governance topics were discussed with institutional investors 
during the year as part of the investor relations programme. These included 
Cobham’s overall performance, the Group’s markets, particularly with 
respect to the development of the US Department of Defense budgets, 
progress on the Group’s EiD programme, progress against the Group’s 
strategic objectives, changes in senior management and cash deployment 
including dividends, share buy-backs and mergers and acquisitions.
The Non-executive Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are 
available to meet with major shareholders at any time. The Chairman met 
with four of the top five shareholders during October 201 3 and gave them 
an opportunity to raise any concerns they had with communications, 
ethics and/or governance. In summary, those met raised no concerns  
and were very pleased with business performance. The Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee also consulted with major shareholders during 
the year with regards to executive remuneration arrangements.
Presentations were given on the day of the announcement of the 
interim and preliminary results. The presentations were accompanied 
by a live webcast for shareholders unable to attend in person. Copies 
of the associated presentation materials, together with webcasts, 
can be accessed at www.cobhaminvestors.com. Presentations 
are conducted in accordance with the FCA’s Disclosure Rules on the 
dissemination of inside information.
The Board receives a report from the CFO at each of its meetings  
on investor relations generally, including significant changes to 
shareholdings, meetings with and feedback from shareholders  
and research published on the Group. The Board also received  
an independent report during the year outlining how institutional 
investors regard the Group, its strategy, markets, businesses,  
financial position, capital allocation, governance, communications, 
valuation and investment standing.
Communication with shareholders also takes place via RNS 
announcements, the Group’s website, the Annual Report and 
Accounts, the interim management statements and the AGM.  
The AGM is attended by all Directors and shareholders have the 
opportunity to question the Board on its stewardship of the Group  
and to meet the Directors informally. The results of the votes on  
the resolutions proposed at the AGM are published on the Group’s 
website at www.cobhaminvestors.com.
Responsibility statements
Statements relating to the responsibilities of the Directors are on  
page 67 and those relating to the auditors are on pages 73 and 126.
The Board is supported in its work by a number of committees.  
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees. 
Committee chairmen provide oral reports on the work undertaken by 
their committees at the following Board meeting. Information relating  
to the Nomination and Audit Committees appears below and the 
activities of the Remuneration Committee are described in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 63. All Board committees are 
provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
The other principal Board committee is the Executive Directors 
Committee. The Executive Directors are members of this Committee 
under the chairmanship of the CEO. The purpose is to assist the CEO  
in the performance of his duties and its terms of reference include 
establishing and implementing internal policies, systems and controls  
to ensure that potential inside information is communicated to it, 
considered, verified and released to the market where required, the 
discharge of obligations arising under the Company’s share plans, the 
determination of the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors,  
the approval of banking facilities and the approval of bids and contracts. 
This Committee met on 28 occasions during the year and, in addition, 
as required to respond to business needs and market conditions.
The Group Executive Committee and the other principal 
management committees are shown in the table below.
41 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.cobham.com
Corporate Governance Dear Shareholder
A key focus during 2013 has been the 
appointment of two Directors, one Executive, 
one Non-executive. Both of these appointments 
were managed in conjunction with Korn/Ferry 
Whitehead Mann, recruitment consultants who 
have signed up to the voluntary Code of Conduct 
for executive search firms. Korn/Ferry provided  
a shortlist of candidates for these roles. The 
shortlisted candidates were interviewed by 
myself and separately by Mike Wareing,  
Alison Wood and John Patterson before  
meeting the Executive Directors.
As mentioned last year, a fresh look at talent  
and succession further down the management 
chain has been undertaken during the year  
and significant progress made, which has been 
described in the talent management section  
of the CR&S report on page 33.
J Devaney 
Nomination Committee Chairman
Membership and attendance
Number of meetings attended/held
J Devaney (Chairman) 4/4
M Beresford
1
2/2
D Flint
2
 2/2
M Hagee 4/4
J Patterson 4/4
M Ronald 4/4
M Wareing
3
3/4
A Wood 4/4
1
 M Beresford retired from the Board (and hence the Nomination Committee)  
on 25 April 2013.
2
 D Flint joined the Nomination Committee on joining the Board on 1 May 2013.
3
 M Wareing had been hospitalised before the February meeting, which he could 
not attend.
Other attendees
CEO, by invitation.
Role and focus
The Nomination Committee’s main duties are to: 
•	 Review the structure, size and composition of the Board; and
•	 Consider succession planning for Directors and other  
senior executives.
Highlights of 2013
•	 Evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience  
of the Board;
•	 Considered external appointments to subsidiary boards;
•	 Considered succession planning to ensure the Group is  
well positioned for the future;
•	 Conducted a thorough and comprehensive search for two  
new Non-executive Directors, one yet to be appointed; and
•	 Conducted an effectiveness review.
Priorities for 2014
•	 Conclude Non-executive Director search to replace  
John Patterson who will stand down at the conclusion  
of the 2014 AGM.
42 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance Report continued
Nomination Committee
Overview 2005 2020 2025 2010 2015 2013
J Devaney
D Flint
J Patterson
M Ronald
M Hagee
M Wareing
A Wood
1st term 2nd term 3rd term
Board succession planning
The Committee’s terms of reference, which were reviewed  
during the year, are available on the Company’s website at  
www.cobhaminvestors.com or on application to the  
Company Secretary. 
The Committee is cognisant of the need for diversity, including 
gender diversity, when considering the composition of the Board.  
In recruiting for Board roles, targets have been set around ensuring  
a proportion of female applicants are included in the candidate  
pool for Non-executive Director positions. For the recent recruitment, 
the profile has included the requirement for a diverse geographical 
background and commercial market experience. Elsewhere in the 
business, diversity in the workforce is taken very seriously and a full 
report on current strategy is set out in the diversity and inclusion 
section in the CR&S report on page 34.
The current Board composition, in relation to the Non-executive 
Directors, as of 31 December 2013, is set out in the table below 
identifying the skills and experience of the Board members.
 
Succession planning
Succession planning takes place at Board and senior management level on 
a regular basis to ensure that the Group is managed by executives with the 
necessary skills, experience and knowledge. The Board has a role to play  
in overseeing the development of management resources in the Group. 
Specifically, the Board wants to see depth and quality in management  
and robust processes are in place to help the Board in this task. 
Succession planning for Non-executive Directors is based on maintaining 
a depth of knowledge and experience on the Board. The Nomination 
Committee actively manages Non-executive Director succession, having 
regard to anticipated retirement dates for existing Directors, and initiates 
focused searches for Non-executive Directors as positions are required. 
The current Board composition in relation to the Non-executive 
Directors, as of 31 December 2013, in terms of length of service  
and current term is shown diagrammatically in the table adjacent.
Independence
Years with 
Cobham Skills Experience
Leadership Strategy
UK  
Corporate 
Governance Corporate Engineering Defence Finance US Market UK Listings HR
J Devaney 3 • • • • • • • •
R Murphy 1 • • • • • • • • •
S Nicholls 0 • • • • • • • •
D Flint • 0 • • • • • • • • •
M Hagee • 5 • • • •
J Patterson • 8 • • • • • •
M Ronald • 7 • • • • • • •
M Wareing • 3 • • • • • • • • •
A Wood • 2 • • • • • • • •
Directors’ professional development
On appointment, Directors undertake a structured induction programme, 
in the course of which they receive information about the operations and 
activities of the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for 
its decision, the Group’s corporate governance practices and procedures 
and their duties, responsibilities and obligations as Directors of a listed 
public limited company. This is supplemented by visits to key locations 
and meetings with, and presentations by, senior executives.
T raining for Directors is available as required and is provided mainly by 
means of external courses, internal computer based training, briefing 
from specific consultants or in-house presentations. In addition, Directors’ 
knowledge of the legal and regulatory environment is updated through 
the provision of information by the Group’s advisers and by means of 
regular updates from the Company Secretary and the legal team. 
43 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance
www.cobham.com  
Dear Shareholder
It has been yet another busy year for the Audit 
Committee and much has been reviewed and 
reported from across the Group.
We have kept abreast of the ongoing consultations 
on audit reform and implemented new processes 
and reporting to deal with the revised Code 
requirements and narrative reporting.
We welcome the Competition Commission decision 
to delay their conclusions on audit tendering until 
the outcome of the European Commission work is 
known. Further comment on the tendering of the 
external audit is made below.
Each member of the Committee brings relevant 
skills and experience at a senior executive level and 
the appointment of Jonathan Flint broadens the 
scope of expertise of the Committee. I currently 
chair the Audit Committee of two other FTSE 
companies and was the International Chief 
Executive of KPMG until I retired in September 
2009. This provides the Board with assurance that 
the Audit Committee meets the Code requirements 
that at least one member of the Committee  
has significant, recent and relevant financial 
experience. The key skills and experience of each 
member of the Committee are shown on page 43.
M Wareing
Audit Committee Chairman
Membership and attendance
Number of meetings attended/held
M Wareing (Chairman)
1
4/5
M Beresford
2
2/2
D Flint
3
3/3
M Hagee 5/5
1
 M Wareing had been hospitalised before the February meeting, which he could 
not attend. 
2
 M Beresford retired from the Board (and hence the Audit Committee) on 25 April 2013. 
3
 D Flint joined the Audit Committee on joining the Board on 1 May 2013.
Other attendees
Individuals who attended and received papers for each Audit 
Committee meeting included: 
•	 Chairman (papers received and attends by invitation);
•	 CEO (papers received and attends by invitation);
•	 CFO;
•	 Group Director of Financial Control;
•	 Head of Internal Audit;
•	 Company Secretary or her representative; and 
•	 Senior representatives of the Company’s external auditors. 
Other senior executives were also invited to certain meetings  
to present and discuss specific items. The Committee periodically 
meets separately with the Head of Internal Audit and the external 
auditors without the presence of executive management and  
also separately with the CFO. 
Role and focus
The Audit Committee’s main duties are to: 
•	 Monitor the integrity of the Group’s Financial Statements and 
any formal announcements relating to its financial performance, 
reviewing accounting policies used and judgements applied;
•	 Consider the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control systems;
•	 Consider the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
procedures;
•	 Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
audit activities;
•	 Make recommendations as to the appointment, remuneration 
and terms of engagement of the external auditors;
•	 Monitor and review the external auditors’ independence 
(including the provision of non-audit services) and objectivity 
and the effectiveness of the audit process;
•	 Review arrangements by which the Group’s employees may 
confidentially raise concerns about possible improprieties;
•	 Provide assurance to the Board on whether the Annual  
Report and Accounts for 2013 was fair, balanced and 
understandable; and
•	 Report to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
44 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance Report continued
Audit Committee
Overview  
Highlights of 2013
•	 Monitored and contributed to the debate on external audit 
tendering/rotation led by the UK Financial Reporting Council 
(FRC), UK Competition Commission and the European 
Commission, and considered the impact on the Group;
•	 Considered how to adapt procedures and implemented  
new processes to provide advice to the Board on whether  
the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides all information 
necessary to a shareholder to assess the Group’s performance, 
business model and strategy; and
•	 Greater scrutiny given to the Group’s LCM process, EiD controls 
and IT controls, including cyber risk.
Priorities for 2014
•	 Continued oversight of the impact of the defence market 
uncertainty on the financial position of the Group;
•	 Continued monitoring of the external audit tendering/rotation 
debate and consideration of the Group’s audit tender timetable 
as appropriate; and
•	 Continued focus on the Group’s governance framework 
including LCM, EiD, IT controls and risk management processes.
Allocation of time spent during the year
Set out in the table and the narrative below is a summary of 
matters considered by the Committee during 2013. Key issues 
covered by the Committee are reported to the subsequent 
meeting of the Board and all Board members have access  
to copies of the minutes of each meeting.
Feb Apr Jul Nov Dec
Financial reporting and 
significant financial judgements
Full year results and associated 
announcements
•
Half year results and associated 
announcements
•
External audit
Auditors’ full year report  
to the Committee
•
Independence review  
of external auditor
•
Effectiveness review  
of external auditor
•
Review of engagement letter •
Appointment recommendation  
to the Board
•
Auditors’ half year report  
to the Committee
•
Annual external audit plan • •
Chairman’s approval of non-audit fees • • •
Review of audit and non-audit fees •
Internal audit
Effectiveness review of internal audit •
Internal audit report to the Committee • •
Risk management
Fraud and whistleblowing report • •
Risk management report  
to the Committee
• •
Review of the risk sections  
of the Annual Report
•
Review of risk management 
framework
•
Annual review of internal controls •
Other
Updates on accounting and  
corporate governance developments
•
Terms of reference review •
Review of effectiveness  
of the Committee
•
LCM review • •
45 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance
www.cobham.com Risk management and internal controls
The Board is responsible for the oversight and application of the Group’s 
risk management and internal control systems, the aim of which is to 
manage risks that are significant to the fulfilment of the Group’s business 
objectives and to contribute to the safeguarding of shareholders’ 
investment and the Group’s assets. The Board receives reports on a 
regular basis from the Audit Committee in relation to the effectiveness 
of the Group’s system of internal control and has, accordingly, reviewed 
the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control in respect  
of 201 3. The review covered all material controls, including financial, 
operational and compliance controls and risk management systems  
and is designed to give assurance that the day to day risk management 
and internal control policies and procedures, which are embedded in the 
business, have operated effectively in the review period. The principal 
elements, which are split into three lines of assurance, are outlined in the 
diagram shown on page 28. Such a system is designed to manage rather 
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can 
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
Risk management is an integral part of the system of internal control. 
Division Presidents are required to ensure that appropriate processes, 
including the maintenance of business unit and divisional risk registers, 
exist to identify and manage risks and to regularly carry out formal  
risk assessments. The Risk Committee undertakes a top level review  
of significant risks and the CEO reports regularly to the Board on  
their mitigation. 
The latest Principal Risks and the risk management process are 
highlighted on pages 28 to 31.
The Group operates under a system of internal controls which has been 
developed and refined over time to meet its needs and the risks and 
opportunities to which it is exposed. This includes a strategic planning 
process involving the preparation of the Strategic Plan, a comprehensive 
budgeting system with an annual budget which is approved by the Board, 
the regular revision of financial forecasts for the year, the monitoring  
of financial performance and the appropriate delegation of authorities  
to operational management. Delegations and other operational controls 
are contained in the Corporate Framework and the Group Finance 
Manual. Specifically with regard to the financial reporting process and  
the preparation of the Group Financial Statements, the system includes 
an annual and semi-annual representation letter from all business units. 
Included in those letters are written acknowledgements that financial 
reporting is based upon reliable data and that the results are properly 
stated in accordance with Group policies. 
The Committee believes that the current arrangements comprising 
the half yearly risk assessment process, a rotational programme  
of internal financial and other control reviews by the internal audit 
function, other experienced internal teams, external experts and 
business reviews carried out by the CEO and CFO and a process  
of self-assessment of internal financial controls by all business  
units provide appropriate coverage of the Group’s activities.  
Where weaknesses have been identified, plans for remedying  
them are developed and progress monitored. 
Cobham Code of Business Conduct violations and fraud
The CR&S section of this report, on pages 32 to 35, contains details of 
the Cobham Code of Business Conduct and the mechanisms, including 
those maintained by independent third parties, by which suspected 
violations of the Code are raised and independently investigated. The 
Audit Committee received reports providing details of these cases, their 
outcome, and any corrective actions taken. The reports also included 
details on anonymous reporting rates and the duration of the 
investigations. In addition, the Committee also received reports 
providing details of any fraud losses. 
Financial reporting and significant financial judgements
The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have 
been adopted, whether management has made appropriate estimates 
and judgements and also seeks support from the external auditors  
to assess them.
The Committee reviewed the following main issues for the year 
ended 31 December 2013:
Issue Committee action Conclusion (with reasoning)
Carrying value of 
investments and 
potential impairments.
Reviewed internal papers 
covering the basis and 
quantum of valuation.
Satisfied that these were 
reasonable and appropriate, 
and that the disclosures 
made were appropriate.
The accounting for 
revenue recognition.
Considered accounting 
policies and external  
audit reviews.
Satisfied that accounting 
was reasonable and 
appropriate.
The accounting for 
contract profitability, 
including the recognition 
of contract loss 
provisions.
Considered accounting 
policies, management 
reports, detailed contract 
appraisals, legal advice, 
and internal/external  
audit reviews.
Considered that 
accounting and provisions 
were appropriate.
The control environment 
of the Group to mitigate 
the risk of management 
override of internal 
controls.
Reviewed the summary  
of management letters  
of representation and 
results of internal and 
external audit reviews.
Satisfied that the system 
of internal controls  
was reasonable  
and appropriate.
At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether  
the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts was fair, balanced and 
understandable and whether it provided the necessary information  
for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model 
and strategy. It was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2013 Annual 
Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable. This 
assessment was underpinned by the following:
•	 Comprehensive guidance issued to contributors at operational level;
•	 A verification process dealing with the factual content of the reports;
•	 Comprehensive reviews undertaken at different levels in the 
Group that aim to ensure consistency and overall balance; and
•	 Comprehensive review by the senior management team.
External auditors
External audit processes
During the year, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) undertook 
external audit and certain non-audit work. The Audit Partner, Stuart 
Watson, together with the Audit Director, attended as representatives 
of the external auditors at each Audit Committee meeting. Stuart  
46 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance Report continued also attended the 2013 AGM. PwC provided the Committee with 
information and advice as well as relevant reports on the financial 
statements and controls.
In July 2013, the Committee reviewed and approved the terms, areas  
of responsibility and scope of the December 2013 year-end audit as  
set out in the external auditors’ engagement letter. During the year, 
PwC provided audit related services such as regulatory and statutory 
reporting. PwC is expected to report to the Committee any material 
departures from Group accounting policies and procedures that it 
identifies during the course of its audit work. None were found or 
reported in the financial year.
The Independent Auditors’ report to the members of the Company 
can be found on pages 70 to 73, and pages 125 and 126.
Independence and objectivity
The Committee and the external auditors have safeguards to avoid the 
possible compromise of the auditors’ objectivity and independence.  
These include a policy regarding the supply of audit and non-audit 
services and a policy on the employment of external audit staff. 
Non-audit services, as defined from time to time in the policy, can be 
provided subject to pre-approval by the Committee where the cost  
of any individual engagement exceeds a pre-defined limit and the cost 
does not exceed the overall limit set out in the policy. 
The total fees paid to PwC in the year ended 31 December 201 3 (together 
with a comparison to fees paid in the year ended 31 December 201 2) are 
set out in the following table. Further disclosure of the non-audit fees paid 
during the year can be found in note 5 to the Group Financial Statements.
Year
£m
Audit  
fees 
Non-audit  
fees
Total fees  
paid 
Non-audit  
fees as a %  
of audit fees
2013 2.1 1.7 3.8 81%
2012 2.0 1.1 3.1 55%
The nature of services received from and fees paid to the external 
auditors during the year include tax compliance and HR advisory services.
PwC also provides specific assurance to the Committee on the 
arrangements and safeguards it has in place to maintain its 
independence and objectivity, including an internal process to 
pre-approve provision of non-audit services and the use of separate 
teams where non-audit services are being provided to the Group. 
The external auditors follow regulatory requirements to maintain  
the objectivity of the audit process, which stipulate in relation to the 
senior engagement auditor, a five year rotation policy. Stuart Watson 
was appointed as lead audit partner in 2009 and has now come to  
the end of his tenure with Cobham. Stuart will be succeeded by 
Pauline Campbell. The Committee is satisfied that the external 
auditors remain independent.
Auditor appointment and effectiveness 
The Committee conducts an annual review of the performance  
of the external auditors, including feedback from the finance teams 
at each of the operating companies. This review was conducted  
in February 2014 and overall the feedback was positive.  
The Committee is, therefore, satisfied that PwC continues  
to provide an effective audit service. 
The Committee has recommended that a resolution be proposed  
at the AGM to re-appoint the external auditors and to allow the 
Board to set their remuneration. 
External audit tendering
PwC have been the auditors of Cobham plc for many years.
During the last two years, the Committee has been monitoring and, through  
its Chairman, contributing to the debate on external audit tendering. The 
Committee has given preliminary consideration to the potential impact  
of the requirements by the FRC and the UK Competition Commission 
regarding audit firm tendering, which are welcomed. However , the Committee 
notes that the European Commission has proposed potentially conflicting 
guidelines in this area and that the Competition Commission has revised  
its administrative timetable to enable it to consider the implications  
of the European Commission proposals. We will continue to monitor 
developments in this area and await the outcome of the consultations.
The Committee considered tendering for the provision of the external 
audit service during 2013. The Committee concluded that, in light of the 
above continuing regulatory uncertainty and the need to properly plan 
for a full audit tender process, a tender of the external audit should be 
delayed, subject to the continued satisfactory performance of PwC, 
until the finalisation of the European Commission and Competition 
Commission guidelines. It is, however, our intention to consider carrying 
out a formal tender process once the regulatory position is clear. 
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Company’s 
choice of external auditors.
Internal audit
During the year, prior to each of the five scheduled Committee 
meetings, the Chairman of the Committee met with the Head of 
Internal Audit and his reports were reviewed and discussed in detail. 
The Committee considered the results of the internal audits and  
the adequacy of management’s response to matters raised in them, 
including the time taken to resolve any such matters.
In February 2014, the Committee conducted an annual review of  
the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function, including  
its terms of reference, its audit plans, its general performance and  
its relationship with the external auditors. The Committee is satisfied 
that the internal audit function continues to provide an effective 
internal audit service.
M Wareing
Audit Committee Chairman
5 March 2014
47 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance
www.cobham.com Dear Shareholder
201 3 was a year of change for the Group. It was the first full year for our 
new CEO which saw the completion of his relocation to the UK from 
the US, although he was employed on and will remain on US terms and 
conditions. In addition, we managed the change of CFO with Warren 
Tucker handing over to Simon Nicholls during the course of the year.
Cobham has a diverse portfolio of businesses and, while some of the 
businesses performed very well, those exposed to defence in general 
and the US defence market in particular, had a difficult year. The  
short term effect was to depress EPS, one of our longer term reward 
parameters. However, the Group has won a number of significant 
long term contracts and the management team is making good 
progress in reshaping the Group. These changes have been recognised 
by the market, leading to a 33% TSR achieved in the year and the good 
free cash flow (which is a key annual reward parameter) has allowed  
us to cover a 10% increase in the dividend.
The salary of the CEO was increased in line with the whole employee 
group, while the outgoing CFO received no base salary increase.  
The Annual Incentive Plan paid out 41% of the maximum to Bob 
Murphy and 39% (pro rata) to Simon. Warren was awarded 8/12  
of his maximum annual bonus against a set of time and individual 
performance criteria at his agreed departure date.
Long term incentive awards were made to the Executive Directors  
in line with our normal practice, neither of whom have been with 
Cobham long enough for any of their LTIPs to mature. Warren  
was not awarded any LTIPs in the year, while his maturing 2011 
Performance Share Plan was significantly reduced at 9% of the award.
All elements of the Executive Director remuneration packages  
are detailed in the body of the report. Of note this year are the 
non-recurring payments driven by the departure of Warren and the 
recruitment of Simon, which are shown in the single figure table on 
page 55. Warren did not receive any payments for loss of office, but  
did receive a pro-rated annual bonus payment based on personal 
performance and was treated as a good leaver under the Performance 
Share Plan. Simon received a buy-out award upon appointment in 
respect of remuneration foregone at his previous employer. The  
value of this award was equivalent to the expected value of the 
remuneration foregone and will vest over the same time horizons. 
We have undertaken a review of our remuneration report to respond  
to regulatory requirements and in preparation for the first binding vote 
on our remuneration policy. We have set out where we may need to 
exercise our discretion and it is important to recognise that no change 
to our existing, shareholder agreed, policy has been implemented.
Finally, as I will be retiring from the Board and therefore my role of the 
Chairman to the Remuneration Committee, we appointed one of my 
fellow committee members to the role. Alison Wood will be taking up 
her new role as Chair of the Committee immediately following the AGM. 
I hope that we can rely on your vote in favour of the Annual Report  
and Accounts on remuneration and our Directors’ remuneration policy 
for future years.
Dr J Patterson
Remuneration Committee Chairman
Membership and attendance
Number of meetings attended/held
J Patterson (Chairman) 4/4
J Devaney
1
1/2
M Ronald 4/4
A Wood 4/4
1
 During the year, the Committee membership was reduced to three Non-executive 
Directors. The Company Chairman ceased to be a member of the Committee  
with effect from 25 September 2013, although he continues to attend meetings  
by invitation of the Remuneration Committee Chairman as appropriate.
 
No individual is present in meetings relating to decisions around their own remuneration.
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the Company’s website or on 
application to the Company Secretary.
Other attendees
Executive Vice President HR, Vice President Compensation  
and Benefits, Deloitte LLP , CEO (attends by invitation).
Role and focus
The Remuneration Committee’s main duties are to: 
•	 Make recommendations to the Board on the Group’s policies  
on Executive Directors’ remuneration and ensure alignment  
to the Group’s Strategic Plan; and
•	 Determine, on the Board’s behalf, the specific remuneration 
packages of the Chairman, Executive Directors, Group Executive 
and Company Secretary.
Priorities for 2014
•	 Secure positive support for the remuneration policy and 
oversight to ensure it continues to support the achievement 
of the Group’s Strategic Plan, the demonstration of the 
required behaviours and the retention of high potential,  
high performance, key skilled resource; and
•	 Review how advice is provided by the Committee. 
48 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Overview While we have not made any changes to our remuneration policy, this is the first time we have publicly articulated our policy in preparation 
for a binding vote. The table below sets out the remuneration policy that the Company intends to apply following the AGM on 24 April 2014, 
which will become binding from that date, subject to shareholder approval.
Remuneration and policy (the policy table)
Element
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation
Maximum  
potential value
Current  
performance measures
Base  
pay
To provide fixed 
remuneration which  
is market competitive  
to attract and retain 
executives of the  
quality required to  
deliver the Group’s 
strategy, while taking into 
account an individual’s 
experience and personal 
contribution to the  
Group’s Strategic Plan.
Reviewed annually and paid monthly  
with changes typically effective from  
1 March.
Consideration is given to a wide range  
of factors including:
•	 	 I ndivi dual 	 and 	 Compan y 	 per f ormanc e ;
•	 	 G eneral 	 pa y 	 incr ea ses 	 acr oss 	 the	 
wider workforce; 
•	 The 	 s i z e 	 and 	 sc ope 	 o f 	 the 	 r ole ; 	 and
•	 	 P a y 	 lev els 	 o f 	 c omparable 	 r oles 	 in	
c ompani es 	 o f 	 a 	 s imi lar 	 s i z e 	 and	 
complexity to the Company.
To avoid setting the expectations of 
Executive Directors and other employees, 
no maximum salary is set under the 
Remuneration Policy.
However, base salary increases for the 
Executive Directors are applied in line with 
the outcome of the annual review and will 
typically be in line with the average increase 
for the wider workforce.
I ncr ea ses 	 ma y 	 be 	 made 	 e ither 	 abo v e 	 or	
below that received by the wider workforce 
to take account of individual circumstances, 
which may include but are not limited to:
•	 	 A 	 c h an g e 	 i n 	 th e 	 s c o p e 	 o f 	 th e 	 r o l e 	 o r 	 i n c r e a s e	
in responsibility;
•	 	 A 	 s i gn i f i can t 	 c h an g e 	 i n 	 the 	 s i z e 	 and	
complexity of the Group; and
•	 	 A n 	 i n d i v i d u a l’ s 	 d e v e l o p m e n t 	 o r	 
performance in role (e.g. a newly  
appointed executive director being  
moved to be aligned with the market  
over time).
Not applicable
Other  
benefits
To provide fixed 
remuneration which  
is market competitive  
to attract and retain 
executives of the  
quality required to  
deliver the Group’s  
strategy, while taking  
into account an individual’s 
experience and personal 
contribution to the  
Group’s Strategic Plan.
The Company provides various market 
competitive benefits to Executive Directors, 
which may include: a company car  
(or cash equivalent), travel allowance,  
private medical and dental insurance,  
travel accident policy, life assurance  
and long term disability benefit.
Where appropriate, other benefits may  
be provided to take account of individual 
circumstances, such as but not limited to: 
expatriate allowances, relocation expense, 
housing allowance and education support.
No maximum level of benefit is set under 
the remuneration policy and the 
Remuneration Committee sets the level it 
considers appropriate taking into account 
relevant market levels based on the nature 
and location of the role.
Level of benefits set are in line with those 
paid to other senior executives and with 
regard to the market.
None
Retirement 
benefits
To provide fixed 
remuneration which  
is market competitive  
to attract and retain 
executives of the  
quality required to  
deliver the Group’s  
strategy, while taking  
into account an individual’s 
experience and personal 
contribution to the  
Group’s Strategic Plan.
The Company may make a payment  
into a pension scheme (e.g. a defined 
contribution plan) and/or make a cash 
allowance payment set as a percentage  
of salary.
Set at a level which the Remuneration 
Committee considers appropriate taking 
into account relevant market levels based  
on the nature and location of the role.
Contributions of up to 30% of base salary  
may be made to take account of a change  
in the scope of the role or increase in 
responsibility. 
The contribution levels for 2014 are below 
this level (20% of salary) as disclosed in the 
annual report on remuneration.
None
49 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance
www.cobham.com
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy Element
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation
Maximum  
potential value
Current  
performance measures
Annual  
Inc entiv e	 
P lan 	 ( AI P )
Drives and rewards  
annual performance  
against selected financial 
and 	 operati onal 	 KP I s 	 and	
individual objectives that 
are directly linked to the 
Group’s Strategic Plan.
Measured over a one-year performance 
period with pay-out levels determined  
by the Committee following the year-end.
The Committee may adjust the bonus 
pay-out, either up or down, should the 
formulaic outcome be considered not to 
reflect underlying business performance.
75% of any bonus is paid in cash and  
up to 25% of any bonus is mandatorily  
deferred into Company shares for a  
period of three years.
Up to a further 25% of any bonus may  
be voluntarily deferred into shares in the 
Company for a period of three years under 
the BCP (see below).
Clawback provisions are in place which  
give the Committee discretion to reduce 
awards or require repayment of cash paid  
to a participant in relation to annual 
incentives within the preceding 12 months 
for material misstatement of financial 
results, reputational damage to the Group, 
contravention of internal ethics standards  
or gross misconduct of the individual.
Deferred share awards may be released  
early on a change of control in line with  
the plan rules.
The Committee may make a dividend 
equivalent payment (Dividend Equivalents) 
to reflect dividends that would have been 
paid over the deferral period on shares that 
vest. This payment may be in the form of 
additional shares or a cash payment equal  
to the value of those additional shares.
The maximum opportunities for 2014,  
as disclosed in the annual report on 
remuneration, are 120% of salary for  
the CEO and 100% of salary for the CFO.
The maximum bonus opportunity for  
any Executive Director will not exceed  
150% of salary. Any opportunity above  
the 2014 levels noted above will only be 
made where the Committee considers  
there to be a commercial rationale that  
may include but is not limited to:
• 		 A 	 change 	 in 	 the 	 sc ope 	 o f 	 the 	 r ole 	 or	
increase in responsibility;
• 		 A 	 r educ ti on 	 t o 	 o ther 	 elemen t s 	 o f 	 the	
remuneration package; and
• 		 A 	 s i g n if i can t 	 change 	 in 	 the 	 s i z e 	 and	
complexity of the Group.
Any increases above the current 
opportunities will also normally be  
subject to shareholder consultation.
Performance is 
assessed over a  
single financial  
year based on a 
combination  
of financial and 
individual metrics 
which are aligned  
to the strategic 
objectives of  
the Company.
The majority  
of the bonus  
is assessed against  
key financial 
performance  
metrics of the 
business and the 
balance based  
on individual 
performance.
For target 
performance,  
up to 50% of the 
maximum bonus 
opportunity will  
be received.
Bonus 
Co-investment  
Plan (BCP)
This plan  
forms part  
o f 	 the 	 L TI	
programme.
I n c en tivi se 	 su s t a in abl e	
profitable growth and 
sector outperformance 
aligned with the Group’s 
Strategic Plan.
Reward share price  
and dividend growth, 
providing alignment with 
shareholders’ interests.
Supports retention and 
promotes share ownership.
I ndivi duals 	 ma y 	 r ec e iv e 	 a 	 mat ch ing 	 a war d	
under the BCP in respect of any bonus 
deferred subject to the achievement  
of performance conditions.
The Committee may adjust the level  
of the matching award vesting, either  
up or down, should the formulaic outcome 
be considered not to reflect underlying 
business performance.
Dividend Equivalents may be made as 
detailed 	 abo v e 	 under 	 the 	 AI P 	 but 	 in	 
respect of the performance period.
Clawback provisions are in place as detailed 
abo v e 	 under 	 the 	 AI P .
Upon a change of control, awards will vest  
to the extent specified by the Remuneration 
Committee after taking into account those 
factors it thinks are relevant. These may 
include but are not limited to the extent  
to which the performance conditions have 
been satisfied and the period elapsed since 
the date of grant.
The maximum matching award is 1:1  
on any net bonus deferred up to 50%  
of the bonus earned.
The matching award of shares is provided 
against the gross bonus invested.
Performance is 
assessed over more 
than one financial 
year, usually at least 
three years against 
key financial metrics 
aligned to the Group’s 
Strategic Plan. 
A matching award  
of 0.5:1 Ordinary 
Share is received for 
achieving threshold 
performance.
50 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Element
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation
Maximum  
potential value
Current  
performance measures
Performance 
Share  
Plan (PSP)
This plan  
forms part  
o f 	 the 	 L TI	
programme.
I n c en tivi se 	 su s t a in abl e	
profitable growth and 
sector outperformance 
aligned with the Group’s 
Strategic Plan.
Reward share price  
and dividend growth, 
providing alignment  
with shareholders’ interests 
over the longer term.
Supports retention and 
promotes share ownership.
Awards are made under the rules  
of the PSP , which were approved  
by shareholders at the 2007 AGM.
Awards are made on an annual basis  
and will vest subject to performance  
after a period of at least three years.
The Committee may adjust the level  
of vesting, either up or down, should  
the formulaic outcome be considered  
not to reflect underlying business 
performance.
Dividend Equivalents may be made  
a s 	 detailed 	 abo v e 	 under 	 the 	 AI P 	 but	 
in respect of the performance period.
Change of control provisions apply  
as detailed in the BCP section above.
Clawback provisions are in place  
a s 	 detailed 	 abo v e 	 under 	 the 	 AI P .
Conditional share awards or nil-cost  
options of up to 150% of base salary  
may be granted annually. 
I n 	 ac c or danc e 	 with 	 the 	 plan 	 rules, 	 wh i ch	
were approved by shareholders at the  
2007 AGM, the individual limit of 150% of 
salary can be exceeded in exceptional 
circumstances involving the recruitment or 
retention of a senior employee by approval 
of the Committee.
Performance is 
assessed over more 
than one financial 
year, usually at least 
three years against 
key financial metrics 
aligned to the Group’s 
Strategic Plan. 
The threshold level  
of vesting may be  
up to 16.7% of the 
maximum award. 
Executive  
Share  
Option  
Scheme  
(ESOS)
This scheme 
forms part  
o f 	 the 	 L TI	
programme.
I n c en tivi se 	 su s t a in abl e	
profitable growth and 
sector outperformance 
aligned with the Group’s 
Strategic Plan.
Reward share price  
and dividend growth, 
providing alignment with 
shareholders’ interests.
Supports retention and 
promotes share ownership.
Awards are made under the rules of the 
ESOS, which are currently proposed for 
updated approval at the 2014 AGM.
Awards under the ESOS are not currently 
made to Executive Directors. No awards  
will be made in any year in which an 
Executive Director receives an award  
under the PSP .
The Committee may adjust the level  
of vesting, either up or down, should  
the formulaic outcome be considered  
not to reflect underlying business 
performance.
Options can become exercisable on a 
change of control of the Company, or with 
the consent of the acquiring company, a 
grant of equivalent rights may be made. 
Annual awards may be made with an 
aggregate market value of 200% of salary.
Performance would 
be assessed over 
more than one 
financial year, usually 
at least three years 
against key financial 
metrics aligned to the 
Group’s Strategic Plan.
All employee 
share schemes
Provides all employees, 
including Executive 
Directors the opportunity 
to voluntarily invest  
in Company shares.
The Company operates a SAYE scheme  
and 	 S I P 	 scheme , 	 whi ch 	 ar e 	 bo th 	 H M R C	
approved plans. 
Maximum limits are set in line with the 
HMRC savings limit for approved plans.
None
51 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance
www.cobham.com 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 3.0 3.5 2.5
Maximum
Target
Minimum
Base salary, benefits and pension AIP LTIs
CEO – R Murphy
35% 26% 39%
Total 
£3.1m
Total 
£1.7m
Total 
£1.1m
63% 24% 13%
100%
£m
Maximum
Target
Minimum
CFO – S Nicholls
34% 26% 40%
Total 
£1.5m
Total 
£0.8m
Total 
£0.5m
61% 24% 15%
100%
Base salary, benefits and pension AIP LTIs
0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 3.0 3.5 2.5 £m
Notes to the policy table
Policy for the remuneration of employees generally
The Company values its wider workforce and aims to provide a 
remuneration package that is based on a mixture of Group and 
personal performance. As the Group is worldwide and operates in 
different countries, employees are appropriately remunerated taking 
account of the market in the employees’ jurisdiction of employment. 
The following key principles of the remuneration policy outlined 
above are applied consistently across the employee population: 
•	 To offer a level of remuneration that is appropriate to attract, 
retain, motivate and reward employees to deliver the Group’s 
Strategic Plan without paying more than is necessary; and 
•	 To seek to remunerate fairly, competitively and consistently  
for each role with due regard to the marketplace, internal 
consistency and the Group’s ability to pay.
When determining remuneration arrangements for Executive 
Directors, the Committee takes into consideration, as a matter of 
course, the pay and conditions of employees throughout the Group. 
I n 	 p a r t i c u l a r , 	 t h e 	 C o m mi t te e 	 p aid 	 s p e ci f i c 	 a t te nt io n 	 to 	 t h e 	 l ev e l 	 of	
s a l a r y 	 in cre as e s 	 a n d 	 t h e 	 s i z e 	 of 	 t h e 	 a n n u a l 	 b o n u s 	 p o o l 	 in 	 t h e 	 w id e r 	
population, with particular reference to the year on year change to 
these figures. No consultation with employees takes place in relation 
to determining the Directors’ Remuneration Policy.
Performance measures and targets setting
The annual bonus is assessed against both financial and individual 
targets determined by the Committee. This incentivises Executives  
to focus on delivering the key financial goals of the Company as well 
as specific strategic objectives for each Director, which are aligned  
to delivering the Group’s Strategic Plan and ensuring Executives 
exhibit the right behaviours. Targets are set on an annual basis  
taking into account the budget forecast and at a level which the 
Committee considers to be stretching.
Long term performance measures under the BCP and PSP are  
chosen by the Committee to be aligned with the long term strategy 
of the business. They are selected to be aligned with the interests  
of shareholders and incentivise the delivery of strong, sustainable, 
financial performance. Targets are set at the time of grant taking  
into account internal and external forecasts and the market 
environment. Where TSR is selected as a performance measure,  
no awards will vest for below median performance.
Application of remuneration policy
The best way to demonstrate how our policy works is to provide 
examples of pay-outs under different scenarios. 
The charts below illustrate the application of the remuneration 
policy set out in the policy table for each Executive Director  
for 2013 under different scenarios:
Assumptions
Maximum  
performance  
(Maximum)
Total fixed pay as minimum below, plus:
Assumes 	 1 00% 	 pa y -out 	 under 	 the 	 AI P 	 ( 1 2 0%	 
of base salary for R Murphy, 100% for S Nicholls).
Assumes 100% pay-out under the BCP Equivalent  
to 1 to 1 share match based on 50% investment  
o f 	 m axi mum 	 AI P , 	 no t ed 	 abo v e , 	 m anda t o r y 	 and	 
voluntary, (R Murphy only). 
Assumes 100% pay-out under the PSP (150% of  
base salary for both).
On-target  
performance  
(Target)
Total fixed pay as minimum below, plus:
Assumes 	 5 0% 	 pa y -out 	 under 	 the 	 AI P 	 ( 6 0%o f	 
base salary for R Murphy, 50% for S Nicholls).
Assumes 50% pay-out under the BCP (aligned with 
threshold performance). Equivalent to 0.5 to 1 share 
mat ch 	 ba sed 	 on 	 5 0% 	 in v estmen t 	 o f 	 target 	 AI P , 	 no t ed	
above, mandatory and voluntary, (R Murphy only). 
Assumes 16.7% pay-out under the PSP (aligned with 
threshold performance).
Below threshold  
performance  
(Minimum)
Fixed elements of remuneration only – base salary, 
benefits and pension only (salary payable through the 
year under report and benefits and pension equivalent to 
that included in the single figure calculation on page 55): 
refer to the notes below that table for the detail.
Note:
 
As required by the regulations, the scenarios do not include any share price  
growth assumptions or take into account any dividends that may be paid.
52 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Policy table for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors
Component Approach of the Company
Chairman fees The Remuneration Committee and the Senior 
I ndependen t 	 Di r ec t or 	 det ermine 	 the 	 f ees 	 o f 	 the	
Chairman and set the fees at a level that reflects  
the skills, knowledge and experience of the individual, 
while taking into account appropriate market data.
The fee is set as a fixed annual fee and may be  
paid wholly or partly in cash or Company shares.
Non-executive 
Director fees
The Executive Directors Committee determines the  
fees of the Non-executives. Fees are set taking into 
ac c oun t 	 the 	 s i z e 	 and 	 c omplexity 	 o f 	 the 	 bus i ness 	 and	 
the expected time commitment and contribution  
for the role.
Fees are structured as a basic fee with additional  
fees payable for membership and/or chairmanship  
of a committee or other additional responsibilities.
The fee is set as a fixed annual fee and may be paid 
wholly or partly in cash or Company shares.
Benefits An additional allowance may be provided in respect  
of additional travelling time required to attend Board 
meetings for those Directors who are based outside  
of the UK.
Approach to recruitment remuneration
When determining the remuneration package for a new Executive 
Director, the Committee will apply the following principles:
•	 The package will be market competitive to attract and retain 
individuals of the calibre required to lead the business and deliver 
our strategic goals;
•	 Typically, the remuneration package will be aligned in accordance 
with the Company’s remuneration policy set out above. However, 
should business needs require, the Remuneration Committee has  
the discretion to include other remuneration elements which are  
not included in the remuneration policy, subject to the overall limit 
on variable remuneration set out below. The Committee does not 
intend to use this discretion to make non-performance related 
incentive payments (for example, a golden hello). Any movement 
from the policy outlined in the table above would only be considered 
where there is a commercial rationale for doing so, which will be 
disclosed in the following annual remuneration report; and
•	 To secure an appointment the Remuneration Committee may  
need to make awards to buy out an external candidate’s 
remuneration arrangements that are forfeit as a result of leaving 
the i r 	 p r e vi o u s 	 emplo y er . 	 I n 	 do i n g 	 so , 	 the 	 C omm i tt ee 	 wi ll 	 tak e 	 i n t o	
account all relevant factors which may include the form and time 
ho ri z on 	 o f 	 a wa r d s, 	 an y 	 per f o rm an c e 	 c ond i ti on s 	 a ttach i n g 	 t o 	 the	
awards and the likelihood of awards vesting. The Committee will 
typically seek to buy out awards on a comparable basis to those 
forfeit, with the intention that the value awarded would be no 
higher than the expected value of the forfeit arrangements. 
The maximum level of variable remuneration that may be granted to 
a new Executive Director on appointment (excluding any buy out of 
forfeit awards discussed above) will be 375% of salary, being aligned 
with the sum total of the stated policy for all variable remuneration 
for current Executive Directors:
•	 For any internal candidates, remuneration commitments made 
prior to the appointment as Director may continue to be 
honoured, notwithstanding compliance with the remuneration 
policy set out above; and
•	 The remuneration package for a newly appointed Non-executive 
Director would be in line with the structure set out in the policy 
table for Non-executive Directors.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as 
possible under the Company’s existing share plans, if necessary, and 
subject to the limits referred to above, recruitment awards may be 
granted outside these plans as currently permitted under the listing 
rules which allow for the grant of awards to facilitate, in exceptional 
circumstances, the recruitment of a Director. 
Service contracts and payment for loss of office 
The Board’s policy for current and new Executive Directors is that 
service contracts have a notice period that should not exceed one 
year. However, it recognises that it may be necessary in the case of 
new executive appointments to offer a longer initial notice period, 
which would subsequently reduce to one year. 
Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment to the Company 
whereby their appointment may be terminated by a maximum of one 
month’s written notice.
The current Executive Directors’ service contracts are terminable  
on 12 months’ notice by either party and can be terminated for cause, 
which is defined in the contract. The Company may elect to terminate 
Executive Directors’ service contracts by making payments in lieu of 
notice which will not exceed 12 months’ salary and benefits, which can 
also include, but are not limited to, pension, outplacement and legal fees.
P a y me nt s 	 in 	 r espec t 	 of 	 A I P 	 ma y 	 also 	 be 	 pa y able 	 on 	 t he 	 dat e 	 of 	 lea ving	
in cases such as ill health or retirement. These will be pro-rated to 
reflect the proportion of the financial year worked and subject to 
per f or manc e 	 achi ev ed. 	 I n 	 t he 	 ca se 	 of 	 volun t ar y 	 t er minati on, 	 t he 	 A I P	
may be paid for the period worked until resignation and for any part 
of the notice period that the departing Executive continues to work, 
subject to the achievement of objectives, set at the Committee’s 
discretion. The Company recognises and endorses the obligation  
of departing Directors to mitigate their own losses.
The treatment of unvested shares under the BCP , PSP and ESOS will be 
as set out in the relevant plan rules. The table below provides details 
of the treatment that would apply under the plan rules depending on 
the reason for cessation of employment. To the extent that an award 
does not vest in accordance with these terms, the award will lapse.
53 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance
www.cobham.com Plan Reasons for leaving Treatment
PSP and BCP Good leaver provisions – death, ill health, injury or 
disability, redundancy or retirement.
Award will vest at the time and to the extent determined by the Committee 
after taking into account the extent to which the performance target to which  
it is subject has been met and the extent that the relevant period has elapsed  
at the date of cessation of employment.
Voluntary resignation/any other reason. Award will lapse unless the Committee determines to preserve and vest all  
or part of the award on any terms it thinks fit.
ESOS Good leaver provisions – death, ill health, injury or 
disability, redundancy or retirement.
Award will become exercisable at the time and to the extent determined by  
the Committee after taking into account the extent to which the performance 
target to which it is subject has been met and the extent that the relevant 
period has elapsed at the date of cessation of employment. Awards are 
exercisable within six months of date of cessation of employment, with the 
exception of death where this period is 12 months.
Voluntary resignation/any other reason. Award will lapse unless the Committee determines to preserve and vest all  
or part of the award on any terms it thinks fit.
Where a buy-out award is made under the listing rules, the leaver 
provisions would be determined at the time of the award.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments 
where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an 
existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such  
an obligation) or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim 
arising in connection with the termination of a Director’s office  
or employment.
I n 	 d oing 	 s o , 	 t h e 	 C o m mi t te e 	 w il l 	 re c og ni s e 	 a n d 	 b a l a n c e 	 t h e 	 inte re s t s	
of shareholders and the departing Executive Director, as well as  
the interests of the remaining Directors. Where awards which are 
permitted to vest are subject to performance conditions, these 
would only be assessed at the end of the relevant period(s).
For Non-executive Directors, discretion is retained to terminate  
with or without due notice or paying any payment in lieu of notice 
dependent on what is considered to be in the best interests of the 
Company in the particular circumstances. 
Statement of consideration of shareholder views
The Committee is committed to regular and transparent communication 
with shareholders. We believe this ensures we understand shareholders’ 
views on our arrangements and are able to take their comments into 
consideration when reviewing our remuneration policy.
At the end of 2012, a review of the current remuneration package  
was undertaken to simplify arrangements, rebalance the performance 
metrics in line with current strategy and to provide clearer line of  
sight against targets for those participants in the incentive plans. 
Major shareholders and representative bodies were consulted 
following this review and we received a supportive response.
Payments in relation to existing remuneration arrangements
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration 
payments and payments for loss of office (including exercising  
any discretions available to it in connection with such payments), 
notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out 
above where the terms of the payment were agreed:
•	 Before the policy came into effect; or 
•	 At a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the 
Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment 
was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director 
of the Company. 
For these purposes, ‘payments’ includes the Committee satisfying 
awards of variable remuneration; and, in relation to an award over 
shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award  
is granted.
54 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Single total figure of remuneration for each Director (audited information)
Executive Directors
The single figure table below is completed for each person who served as an Executive Director of the Company at any time during the financial 
year, together with comparatives. 
Single total figure table 
£k
Salary  
and fees
Taxable  
benefits
Annual  
In c e n t i v e	 
Plan
Long term 
incentives Pensions Total
R Murphy
2013 680 294 280 687 117 2,058
2012 313 195 182 – 63 753
S Nicholls
2013 267 11 104 – 53 435
W Tucker
2013 296 17 296 65 120 794
2012 441 18 191 335 150 1,135
Additional disclosures in respect of the single total figure of remuneration (audited information)
Salary and fees
Bob Murphy’s employment terms and conditions are based on US law and his salary payments are made in US dollars and have been converted  
to UK pounds using the average annual conversion rate of $1.5657:£1, the same conversion rate as is used elsewhere in the accounts. Bob’s 2012 
salary was $1,040,000 (pro rata) as reported in the Annual Report and Accounts 2012. On 1 March 2013, his salary was increased by 3%, in line with 
the pay increases made across the business, to $1,071,200.
Simon Nicholls was appointed on a salary of £400,000 per annum; the amount shown in the above table is pro-rated from his 1 May 2013 start date.
Warren Tucker’s base salary was not increased in the 2013 annual pay review.
Taxable benefits
The benefit figures are as follows:
Benefit
R Murphy  
£k ($k)
S Nicholls  
£k
W Tucker  
£k
Car allowance 7 (11) 10 11
Private petrol allowance – – 4
Relocation expenses 100 (157) – –
Private medical insurance, disability cover and life insurance 40 (62) 1 1
Expatriation allowance 128 (200) – –
Allowance to cover financial/tax advice 19 (30) – 1
As disclosed last year, Bob Murphy was entitled to be reimbursed up to $624,000 (60% of his base salary) for the reasonable costs associated 
with his relocation from the US to the UK. The actual cost of his relocation was $812,522, split over 2012 and 2013. Bob’s actual relocation 
expenses were reasonable and customary, and in line with relocation expenses paid to other senior executives in the Group. On this basis,  
the Committee exercised its discretion to approve the payment of the full cost of Bob’s relocation from the US to the UK. 
Andy Stevens, who retired from his position as a member of the Board in August 201 2, was reimbursed business expenses totalling £3,632 during 201 3.
55 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance
www.cobham.com
The Annual Report on Remuneration 2 0 1 3 	 A I P
A I P 	 p a y m e nt s 	 m a d e 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 2 0 1 3 	 p e r f o r m a n c e 	 ye a r 	 a re 	 c a l c u l a te d 	 as 	 f o l l o w s:
Metric Weighting Performance
Full year target
 £m
Actual
£m
Trading profit 70% Threshold 308.5
Target 321.9 314.8
Maximum 335.3
Free cash flow (before restructuring) 30% Threshold 203.4
Target 224.8 205.3
Maximum 234.8
Note: 
Trading profit and cash flow metrics are adjusted for the impact of acquisitions and disposals during the year. Performance conditions are  
set at standard translation exchange rates. The actual results are normalised to these rates for assessment purposes. Trading profit and free 
c as h 	 f l o w 	 a re 	 di s c u s s e d 	 in 	 m o re 	 d e t ail 	 in 	 n ote 	 3 	 to 	 t h e 	 Gr o u p 	 F in a n cia l 	 S t a te m e nt s 	 a n d 	 in 	 t h e 	 KP I 	 d e f ini t io ns 	 o n 	 p a g e 	 1 4 0 . 	 T h e 	 a b o v e 	 re su l t s 	
achieve a business performance factor (BPF) of 0.65.
Target bonus 
(% of salary)
BPF as per  
table above
Ind iv i d ua l	
performance 
factor
% of salary 
achieved
Amount  
o f	A I P	t o	b e	 
paid £k ($k)
% subject  
to mandatory 
deferral
% of which  
can be  
voluntarily 
deferred
R Murphy 120 0.65 1.05 41 280 (438) 25 25
S Nicholls 100 0.65 1.2 39 104 25 N/A
The individual performance factor is made up of personal objectives including achievements against financial and profitable growth metrics, 
customer satisfaction, operational excellence, safety, talent development, and inventory control.
During 2013, Warren Tucker stood down from his role as Executive Director and CFO of the Company and was replaced by Simon Nicholls, 
with effect from 1 May 2013. Warren remained with the Company until 31 August 2013 to ensure an efficient and effective handover was 
given to his successor, to provide advice on various transactions the Company was considering and assist with the delivery of the half year 
results. He was paid 8/12 of the maximum annual incentive he would have been entitled to had he stayed with the Company until the normal 
incentive payment date, based on performance against his personal objectives only. 
Long term incentives
W a r re n 	 T u c k e r ’ s 	 L T I 	 a m o u nt 	 re l a te s 	 to 	 t h e 	 aw a r d s 	 g r a nte d 	 u n d e r 	 t h e 	 PS P 	 in 	 2 0 1 1 . 	 V e s t ing 	 w as 	 d e p e n d e nt 	 o n 	 p e r f o r m a n c e 	 o v e r 	 t h e 	 t h re e	
financial years ended 31 December 2013. The performance achieved against the performance targets is shown below:
Performance  
condition Level Performance
% of award  
vesting at  
that level
Performance  
achieved
Total %  
vest
1/2 TSR Threshold (target) TSR equal to peer 
group TSR index
16.7% I ndex 	 ( 9 . 4 % ) 	 per	
annum/0% vest
Maximum (maximum) TSR equal to or 
greater than peer 
group TSR index  
plus 10%
100%
1/2 EPS Threshold (target) EPS growth of 3% per 
annum over the 
period of the vest
16.7% 3.2% per  
annum/18.2% vest
Maximum (maximum) EPS growth equal to 
or greater than 11% 
during the year
100%
9.1% vest
56 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued The award held by Warren Tucker was as follows:
No of  
shares  
awarded
No of  
shares  
vested
Value of 
shares  
vesting 
£k
PSP 2011 262,285 23,868 65.4
Total 23,868 65.4
The PSP will vest at 9.1% on 10 March 2014 based on the performance conditions measured over the three financial years ended 31 December 
2013 and outlined on page 56. As the awards had not vested at the date of this report, the average share price for the last three months of the 
financial year of 273.8 pence has been used to determine the value for the purposes of the single total figure. 
The Committee used its discretion and treated Warren Tucker as a good leaver under the relevant plan rules in recognition of his agreement 
to remain on the Board for a period of 18 months beyond his desired departure date to allow CEO succession and until a successor was found 
f o r 	 t h e 	 CF O 	 r o l e. 	 W a r re n 	 w as 	 n ot 	 g r a nte d 	 a n y 	 aw a r d s 	 u n d e r 	 L T I 	 a r r a ng e m e nt s 	 d u r ing 	 2 0 1 3 .	
W a r re n 	 T u c k e r ’ s 	 2 0 1 2 	 v e s te d 	 l o ng 	 te r m 	 in c e nt i v e s 	 a n d 	 S A YE 	 a n d 	 S I P 	 h o l ding s 	 we re 	 di s c l o s e d 	 in 	 t h e 	 A n n u a l 	 R e p o r t 	 a n d 	 A c c o u nt s 	 2 0 1 2 	 a n d	 
are included in the 2012 long term incentive plan figure above, as appropriate.
Bob Murphy’s long term incentives figure above covers the vesting of three awards made to him as buy-out awards to compensate for 
forfeited equity from his previous employers as a result of leaving to join Cobham. The three awards, which were disclosed in full in the  
Annual Report and Accounts 2012, are set out below:
Awards vesting Date of vest
Valuation  
(pence per share)
126,779 29 April 2013 248.3
72,305 29 April 2013 248.3
72,305 16 December 2013 266.7
All shares have been valued at the mid-market quotation (MMQ) price on the date of vesting.
Pensions
The Company contributes to Bob Murphy’s retirement plan at the rate of 20% of his base salary. This is comprised of participation in two plans:
•	 A qualified 401k plan, which has limits on the level of contribution that can be made to it; and
•	 An executive retirement plan, non-qualifying.
During 2012, he had reached the contribution level in the 401k plan by contributions made by his previous employer. Therefore, his pro-rated 
contributions of £62,686 were paid in full to the executive retirement plan.
£k 2013 2012
Contributions to 401k plan 10 –
Contributions to executive retirement plan 107 63
Total 117 63
Simon Nicholls’ pension figure is a combined amount of £33,333 to an executive defined contribution plan and £20,000 paid as a cash 
allowance in lieu of additional defined contribution arrangements. Together these payments represent a rate of 20% of his base salary.
Warren Tucker’s pension figure is a combined amount of £49,400 paid into a defined benefit pension scheme. The defined benefit pension 
scheme retirement age for funding purposes is 60; however, the Director may retire from age 55. A further £70,944 was paid as cash allowance 
in lieu of a defined contribution top-up arrangement. 
The Company has obtained written confirmation from each Director that they have disclosed all other items in the nature of remuneration.
57 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance
www.cobham.com Non-executive Directors (audited information)
The 2013 remuneration, current fees and the details of the terms of appointment of the current and past Non-executive Directors,  
including the Chairman, are stated below:
Full year fees* Actuals payable
£k
Commencement  
date
Expiry  
date
Base  
fee
Committee  
fee
Senior 
In d ep en d en t	
Director 2013 2012
J Devaney (Chairman) 1 February 2010 24 April 2016 270 – – 270 470
M Beresford 1 March 2004 25 April 2013 55 5 10 23 70
J Patterson 1 November 2005 31 October 2014 55 12.5 – 68 68
M Ronald 8 January 2007 24 April 2016 55 2.5 – 63 63
M Hagee 3 December 2008 2 December 2014 55 5 – 65 65
M Wareing 1 December 2010 1 December 2016 55 10 10 72 65
A Wood 1 July 2011 1 July 2014 55 2.5 – 58 55
D Flint 1 May 2013 1 May 2016 55 2.5 38 –
Total Non-executive  
Director remuneration 657 856
*
Members of the Nomination Committee do not receive any additional fees.
Notes: 
1. Non-executive Directors only receive fees under their service agreement and do not have any other taxable benefits, annual or long term 
incentives or pension arrangements provided by the Company.
2. Difference between full year fee and actual is explained by an individual commencing or retiring during the year or prior year or by the 
payment of a fee of £5,000 per annum in respect of travelling time for the two Directors based in the US.
3. The Company has obtained written confirmation from each Director that they have disclosed all other items in the nature of remuneration.
4. T h e	f e e	f o r	t h e	S e n i o r	I n d e p e n d e n t	D i r e c t o r	s h o w n	a b o v e	h a s	b e e n	p r o - r a t e d	f o r	l e n g t h	o f	s e r v i c e	i n	t h a t	r o l e .	
Total aggregate Directors’ fees for the year, including the Executive Director fees as per the single figure table above, amount to £3,944,000.
58 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Scheme interests awarded during the financial year (audited information)
The following table sets out the awards made under the long term incentive plans to Executive Directors during the year.
Type of  
award
Basis of which  
award is made
Date of  
award
Face value  
of award
Performance  
period
Performance  
conditions
R Murphy Performance  
Share Plan 
(performance  
share award)
150% of base salary 14 March 2013 £1,078,523 1 January 2013 to  
31 December 2015
Equal split between 
TSR, EPS and cash 
conversion; see note  
5 below giving details 
of the performance 
conditions.
Bonus Co-investment 
Plan (performance 
share award)
Mandatory 25% of 
r etained, 	 earned 	 AI P
28 March 2013 £18,449 1 January 2013 to  
31 December 2015
Economic profit 
measure is considered 
to be price sensitive 
and is not disclosed 
until the year of 
vesting.
S Nicholls Performance  
Share Plan, nil-cost 
options (performance 
share award)
150% of base salary 15 August 2013 £600,000 1 January 2013 to  
31 December 2015
Equal split between 
TSR, EPS and cash 
conversion; see note  
5 below giving details 
of the performance 
conditions.
Buy-out award 
(performance  
share award)
Loss of value of  
vested equity forfeit 
from former employer; 
see note 4 below
15 August 2013 £254,053 15 August 2013 to  
1 May 2016
Continued 
employment with  
a member of the 
Cobham Group  
at the date of the vest.
Notes to the table for scheme interests awarded during the year:
1. All awards have been made in accordance with the relevant scheme rules.
2. Warren Tucker was not awarded any scheme interests during 2013.
3. The face value has been calculated by multiplying the number of shares awarded by the MMQ price of those shares for the three  
trading days immediately preceding the date of the award.
4. This award is in recognition of the loss of value in vested equity forfeit from his former employer and vests in three tranches matched  
to when Simon Nicholls would have received the equity releases, with the final vest on 1 May 2016.
5. Performance conditions for the PSP are set out in the table below:
Performance  
condition Level Performance
% of award  
vesting  
at that level
1/3 TSR Below threshold (minimum) TSR less than peer group TSR index –
Threshold (target) TSR equal to peer group TSR index 16.7%
Maximum (maximum) TSR equal to or greater than peer group TSR index plus 10% 100%
1/3 EPS Below threshold (minimum) EPS growth less than 3% –
Threshold (target) EPS growth of 3% during the year 16.7%
Maximum (maximum) EPS growth equal to or greater than 10% during the year 100%
1/3 Cash Conversion Below threshold (minimum) Cash conversion less than 90% during the year –
Threshold (target) Cash conversion of 90% during the year 16.7%
Maximum (maximum) Cash conversion equal to or greater than 90% during the year 100%
E PS 	 a n d 	 c as h 	 c o nv e r s io n 	 a re 	 d e f in e d 	 in 	 t h e 	 KP I 	 d e f ini t io ns 	 o n 	 p a g e 	 1 4 0 .
59 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance
www.cobham.com TSR peer group
The companies in the TSR comparator group for awards granted in 2013 are:
BAE Systems Harris Northrop Grumman  Smiths Group
E s te r lin e	 I T T 	 I n d u s t r ie s	 Q in e t iQ	 	 	 T e l e d y n e 	 T e c h n o l og ie s
Finnmeccanica L-3 Communications Raytheon   Thales
Flir Systems Meggitt Rockwell Collins  Ultra Electronics
  
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited information)
Executive Directors’ share interests
The interests of the Executive Directors in share awards or share options are shown below (note: there are no options which have vested  
but not yet been exercised):
Director/award
Share awards  
subject to  
performance  
conditions
Share awards  
subject to  
continued  
employment
Unvested  
options  
subject to  
performance  
awards
R Murphy
Buy-out award 2012 72,305
PSP 2012 451,917
PSP 2013 453,924
BCP 2013 7,564
Total 913,405 72,305 –
S Nicholls
Buy-out award 2013 86,442
PSP 2013 204,151
Total – 86,442 204,151
Warren Tucker’s only remaining share interests are shown in the table at the top of page 57. 
During the year, the following gains on the exercise of ESOS or PSP nil-cost options were made by the Executive Directors:
Director/award
No of  
options  
exercised
Date of  
exercise
Option  
exercise price
(pence per share)
Market value at  
exercise date  
(pence per share)
Gain on exercise  
of share option
(£k)
W Tucker
ESOS 2004 Approved 2006 22,260 31 May 2013 134.7 285.8 33.6
ESOS 2004 2006 133,600 31 May 2013 134.7 285.8 201.9
ESOS 2005 2007 180,070 31 May 2013 133.7 285.8 273.9
ESOS 2006 2008 186,154 31 May 2013 185.3 285.8 187.1
ESOS 2007 2009 178,826 31 May 2013 204.5 285.8 145.5
ESOS 2008 2010 84,356 31 May 2013 201.5 285.8 71.1
ESOS 2008 2010 106,094 9 August 2013 201.5 294.8 99.0
ESOS 2009 Approved 2011 3 9 August 2013 184.0 294.8 0
ESOS 2009 2011 176,211 9 August 2013 184.0 294.8 195.2
Total 1,067,574 1,207.3
All the options noted above have already been recognised as vesting in the years noted above. The decision as to when to exercise an option 
is considered an investment decision by the Executive Director and accordingly any increase or decrease in the amount realised on the 
exercise date, as compared to the vesting date, is not included within any further measurement of remuneration. 
Non-executive Directors are required, within six months of election to the Board, to acquire and hold a shareholding of 5,000 Ordinary Shares.
60 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued The interests of the Non-executive Directors and their families in Ordinary Shares were:
1.1.13 31.12.13
M Beresford 15,000 15,000
J Patterson 5,000 5,000
M Ronald 5,000 5,000
M Hagee 5,000 5,000
J Devaney 30,000 30,000
M Wareing 20,000 20,000
A Wood 5,000 5,000
D Flint – 5,000
Ownership guidelines require the Executive Directors to maintain Ordinary Shares. These guidelines state for the CEO to the value of at  
least two years’ salary and for the CFO to the value of at least one year’s salary and to retain a minimum of 50% of net vested PSP and BCP 
matching shares until the relevant shareholding level is met. There is no timeframe over which the guidelines are required to be met and  
there is no requirement for Directors to hold these shares after leaving the Company. Both Directors have complied with the guidelines  
but have yet to meet their targets due to the length of their tenure.
Director
Share ownership 
requirement 
(% of annual 
salary)
No of shares 
owned outright 
(including 
connected 
persons)
No of shares 
beneficially 
owned – (BCP 
In v e s t e d	S h a r e s )
No of shares 
beneficially 
o w n e d	–	( S I P	
Partnership 
Shares)
Ownership 
requirements 
met
Tenure  
in role
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013
R Murphy 200% 80,027 – 7,564 – N/A N/A 35% 18 months
S Nicholls 100% – N/A – N/A – N/A 0% 7 months
I nte re s t s 	 a t 	 5 	 M a r c h 	 2 0 1 4, 	 b eing 	 a 	 d a te 	 n o 	 m o re 	 t h a n 	 o n e 	 m o nt h 	 p r io r 	 to 	 t h e 	 d a te 	 of 	 t h e 	 N ot i c e 	 c o nv e ning 	 t h e 	 A G M , 	 we re 	 t h e 	 s a m e 	 as 	 a t	 
31 December 2013.
The market price of the Ordinary Shares as at 31 December 2013 was 274.5 pence per share and the closing price range during the year was 
211.2 pence to 307.7 pence.
Dilution
The Company’s share schemes are currently funded through shares purchased in the market and have been since November 2010, prior to which 
they were funded through new issue shares. Funding of awards through new issue shares is subject to an overall dilution limit of 10% of issued share 
capital in any ten year period. Of this, 5% may be used in connection with the Company’s discretionary share schemes. As of 31 December 2013, 
13. 1m (1.21%) and 8.6m (0.79%) shares have been issued pursuant to awards made in the previous ten years in connection with all share schemes 
and discretionary schemes respectively. Awards that are made, but then lapse or are forfeit, are excluded from the calculations.
Payments to past Directors (audited information)
Payments to past Directors, after their termination date, in respect of unvested long term incentives during the year have been made to Andy 
Stevens as follows:
No of shares 
awarded
No of shares 
vested
Value of shares 
vesting  
£k
PSP 2011 227,245 20,679 56.6
Total 20,679 56.6
The PSP will vest at 9.1% on 10 March 2014 based on the performance conditions measured over the three financial years ended 31 December 
2013 and outlined on page 56. As the awards had not vested at the date of this report, the average share price for the last three months of the 
financial year of 273.8 pence has been used to determine the value. 
These payments have been made because Andy Stevens has been treated as a good leaver under the relevant plan rules. The good leaver 
provisions allow the Remuneration Committee some element of discretion, which they exercised in this case as Andy Stevens retired from 
office on the grounds of ill health. 
Andy Stevens’ BCP award did not vest due to performance conditions not being achieved.
61 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance
www.cobham.com 200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
31 Dec 
2008
31 Dec 
2009
31 Dec 
2010
31 Dec 
2011
31 Dec 
2012
31 Dec 
2013
FTSE 350 Cobham
Source: Kepler Associates
5 year TSR performance Cobham vs FTSE350
£
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
566.0
538.7
230.8
241.6
96.6 92.5
88.0
75.4
£
Aggregate 
employment 
costs of 
Group employees
Underlying 
profit 
after tax
Dividends PV
2013 2012
Payments for loss of office (audited information)
There were no loss of office payments made during the year.
Performance graph and table
The graph below illustrates the TSR performance (share price growth 
p l u s 	 di v id e n d s ) 	 of 	 t h e 	 C o m p a n y 	 a g ains t 	 t h e 	 F TS E 3 5 0 	 I n d e x 	 o v e r 	 t h e 	
past five years. The graph shows the value of £100 invested over the 
f i v e 	 ye a r 	 p e r io d 	 e n ding 	 3 1 	 D e c e m b e r 	 2 0 1 3 . 	 T h e 	 F TS E 3 5 0 	 I n d e x 	 w as	
chosen as it is a recognised broad equity market index of which the 
Company was a member during 2013 and is currently, as at 5 March 
2014, ranked at 111th.
The table below shows historic CEO total remuneration, calculated 
on the same basis as that used in the single figure of remuneration  
table above.
Year CEO
CEO  
single figure  
of total 
remuneration  
£k
Annual bonus 
payout against  
maximum 
opportunity %  
£k
Long term 
incentive vesting 
rates against 
maximum 
opportunity %  
£k
2013 R Murphy 2.058 34.3% (280) N/A
2012 R Murphy 753 48.5% (182) N/A
A Stevens 1,283 45.0% (267) 58.0% (202)
2011 A Stevens 1,916 92.5% (555) 85.0% (546)
2010 A Stevens 1,478 33.5% (201) 87 .0% (471)
2009 A Cook 1,496 93.0% (567) 100.0% (238)
Percentage change in remuneration of CEO
For 2014, UK salary increases were around 2.7%. Salary increases  
for the Executive Directors were 3% for both Bob Murphy and Simon 
Nicholls. The UK payroll has been chosen for comparison as the UK  
is the location of the head office. 
The following table shows the year on year change in respect of  
the three remuneration elements shown in the table for the CEO  
as compared with that of UK employees generally:
Remuneration element CEO Average employee per capita figure
Salary 3.0% 2.7%
Benefits (25%) 23%
AIP (23%) (41%)
Relative importance of spend on pay
The chart below displays the relative expenditure of the Company  
on various matters, as required (in the case of Group employees’  
pay and shareholder distributions) by the relevant remuneration 
regulations:
The aggregate employment cost of Group employees is detailed in 
note 5 to the Group Financial Statements and includes employer social 
security payments. Group underlying profit after tax is shown above as 
this is profit attributable to the owners of the Group; refer to note 3. 
Dividends are shown in note 8. PV relates to the amount of profit the 
Group spends on research and development; refer to note 5. 
62 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Statement of implementation of remuneration policy  
in the following financial year
Set out below is an explanation on the way the approved policy will 
be implemented in the current year compared with the reported year. 
Element of Directors’ remuneration policy Change
Base pay Current salaries for the CEO and the 
CFO effective from 1 March 2014  
are £704,477 ($1,103,000) and  
£412,000 respectively.
Other benefits/retirement benefits No change.
AIP N o 	 c h an g e . 	 2 0 1 4 	 AI P 	 oppo r t un i ty 	 i s	 
120% of salary for CEO and 100% for CFO. 
BCP No change. Applicable to the CEO only, 
2014 performance will be assessed 
against stretching economic profit 
targets, which are considered price 
sensitive as they are indicative of 
performance expectations and are  
not disclosed until the year of vesting. 
PSP No change. Awards to the value of 
150% of salary will be made in March 
2014. Performance will be equally 
weighted between EPS growth, relative 
TSR against a comparator group  
(see page 60) and cash conversion. 
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee
The Committee received advice during the year from Deloitte LLP . 
Additional advice was received from the Executive Vice President 
Human Resources, Vice President Compensation and Benefits and  
the Company Secretary. The Committee is satisfied that the advice  
it has received has been objective and independent due to Deloitte’s 
compliance with the Code of Conduct of the Remuneration 
Consultants Group and the external experience of Committee 
members. Deloitte’s performance is considered by the Committee  
as part of its performance evaluation. Total fees for advice provided 
to the Committee during the year amounted to £64,800, and were 
provided on a time/cost basis.
Adviser Appointed by
Services provided 
to the Committee
Other services 
provided to  
the Company
Deloitte LLP Remuneration 
Committee in 
November 2009
Remuneration 
strategy
I nc en tiv e 	 des i g n	
Market data
Legal advice
Take-on controls 
Tax 
IT 	 audit s
Jones Day Remuneration 
Committee
Legal advice  
(total fees  
£8,000)
Not applicable
While proposals from the Committee take account of the advice 
received, the ultimate decision is made by the Committee and 
ratified by the Board in the absence of any advisers.
2013 voting at the Annual General Meeting
At the AGM held on 25 April 2013, shareholders approved the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 
2012. Below is the result in respect of the resolution, which required  
a simple majority (i.e. 50%) of the votes cast to be in favour in order 
for the resolution to be passed.
Votes for % Votes against %
17,664,913 90.2 1,918,552 9.8
Votes withheld 1,158,730
By order of the Board
Dr J Patterson 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
5 March 2014
63 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance
www.cobham.com The Directors present their report and the audited Group 
and Parent Company Financial Statements of Cobham plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2013. The Company is 
registered in England and Wales under company number 
30470. The Company’s registered office is Brook Road, 
Wimborne, Dorset, BH21 2BJ, UK. 
Dividends
An interim dividend of 2.64 pence per Ordinary Share of 2.50 pence 
each in the capital of the Company (Ordinary Shares) (2012: 2.40 
pence) was paid in November 2013. The Directors are recommending 
a final dividend of 7.04 pence per Ordinary Share (2012: 6.40 pence) 
payable on 30 May 2014 to ordinary shareholders on the register as 
at 2 May 2014, making a total ordinary dividend for the year of 9.68 
pence (2012: 8.80 pence). 
Details of the total dividend paid out is covered in note 8.
Directors’ indemnity arrangements
The Directors have the benefit of a directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance policy and the Company has entered into qualifying third 
party indemnity arrangements with them, as permitted by the 
Companies Act 2006. The policy was in force at the year-end and 
continues in force at the date of this report. The Directors are 
permitted to take independent legal advice at the Company’s 
expense within set limits in furtherance of their duties.
Directors’ interests
None of the Directors is or was materially interested in any significant 
contract during or at the end of the financial year, particulars of 
which are required to be disclosed by the Listing Rules of the UK 
Listing Authority.
Details of Directors’ share interests and of their rights to subscribe  
for shares are shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on  
pages 48 to 63.
Share capital
The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares which carry no right 
to fixed income, representing 99.9% of the total issued share capital. 
In addition, 19,700 non-redeemable 6% second cumulative Preference 
Shares have been issued which represent 0. 1% of total issued share capital. 
The Directors have been authorised to allot and issue Ordinary 
Shares. These powers are exercised under authority of resolutions 
passed at the Company’s AGM. No Ordinary Shares were issued 
during the current or prior year.
At the AGM held on 25 April 2013, the Company was authorised  
to purchase up to 107,857,590 Ordinary Shares. This authority will 
expire at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM. A special resolution will  
be put to shareholders at the AGM to renew the authority to make 
market purchases of the Company’s shares up to a maximum  
of 10% of the share capital of the Company. 
Subject to applicable statutes, and to the rights conferred on the 
holders of any other shares, shares may be issued with such rights  
and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide or 
(if there is no such resolution or so far as the resolution does not make 
specific provision) as the Board may decide. Holders of Ordinary Shares 
are entitled to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, 
to appoint one or more proxies and, if they are corporations, corporate 
representatives and to exercise voting rights. Holders of Ordinary 
Shares may receive a dividend and, on a liquidation, may share in  
the assets of the Company. Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled  
to receive the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts. Subject to 
meeting certain thresholds, holders of Ordinary Shares may requisition 
a general meeting of the Company or the proposal of a resolution  
at an AGM.
The shareholders of the 6% second cumulative Preference Shares  
are entitled to receive a fixed cumulative preference dividend at  
the rate of 6% per annum in priority to the payment of dividends  
on the Ordinary Shares. In addition, on a return of assets on the 
liquidation or otherwise of the Company, the assets available for 
distribution are to be applied first in repaying to the holders of the 
6% second cumulative Preference Shares the amounts paid up on 
their shares. 
Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares
The rights and obligations attaching to the Ordinary Shares and  
6% second cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each in the capital  
of the Company are set out in the Articles. 
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every 
holder of shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote  
has one vote and on a poll every member present in person or by 
proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every £1 in nominal value 
of the shares of which he or she is the holder. None of the Ordinary 
Shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions on transfers of shares other than:
•	 Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed  
by laws or regulations;
•	 Pursuant to the Company’s Code for Securities Transactions 
including the requirement on the Directors and designated 
employees to obtain approval to deal in the Company’s shares; and
•	 Where a person with an interest in the Company’s shares has  
been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the 
Company with information concerning interests in those shares.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer  
of securities or voting rights.
64 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ Report Significant arrangements – change of control
Individual operating companies in the Group have contractual 
arrangements with third parties in support of the Group’s business 
activities which may take effect, alter or terminate upon a change  
of control of the Group following a takeover bid. Such contractual 
arrangements include supply of equipment, goods and services  
to third parties, such as research, design and production. Such 
contracts and arrangements may be deemed to be essential to one 
or more of the operating companies but there are no contracts or 
arrangements considered to be essential to the operation of the 
business of the Group as a whole, apart from the following:
•	 The Company has entered into a number of credit agreements 
with banks, and has issued senior notes under private placements. 
The total amount owing under such agreements at the year-end 
date is shown in note 19 to the Group Financial Statements. All 
agreements contain clauses such that, in the event of a change  
of control, the Company can offer to or must repay all such 
borrowings together with accrued interest, fees and other  
sums owing as required by the individual agreements.
•	 Under the Sentinel contract, entered into in March 2006, the 
Company must seek approval for any material change in the 
shareholding of the Company. There is an ancillary aircraft lease 
agreement under which a change of control may result in the 
termination of the lease if such event is likely to have a material 
adverse effect on the Company’s ability to perform its 
obligations under the lease.
•	 Under the FSTA shareholders agreement entered into in June 2008, 
a change of control of the Company may result in a required sale  
of the Company’s shares in FSTA to the other shareholders.
Further information relating to change of control appears within the 
remuneration policy table in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 50 and 51. 
Employee share schemes – rights of control
If required to do so by the Company, the trustee of the Cobham 
Share Incentive Plan (the Plan) will, on receipt of notice from the 
Company of any offer, compromise arrangement or scheme which 
affects shares held in the Plan, invite participants to direct the 
trustee on the exercise of any voting rights attaching to the shares 
held by the trustee on their behalf and/or direct how the trustee  
shall act in relation to those shares. 
The trustee will not vote in respect of any shares held in the Plan  
in respect of which it has received no directions nor will the trustee 
vote in respect of any shares which are unallocated under the Plan. 
The trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust (which, as at  
31 December 2013, hold 9,728,809 Ordinary Shares to be used  
for settlement of option and share awards under the Company’s long 
term incentive schemes and all employee share option schemes) 
waive all rights to vote in respect of any shares they  
hold within the Trust.
Major interests in shares
As at 31 December 2013, the Company had been notified of the 
following interests in the Ordinary Shares:
Number of shares at the 
date of notification
% at date of  
notification
Prudential plc group  
of companies
54,277,614 5.03
Sprucegrove Investment 
Management
54,070,021 Below 5
Invesco Limited 53,893,724 4.99
BlackRock, Inc. 52,888,997 Below 5
Schroders plc 56,388,880 5.228
Since the year-end and up to 5 March 2014, being a date not more 
than a month prior to the date of the AGM Notice, the Company had 
received no notices of interests in the Ordinary Shares in accordance 
with DTR 5.
Financial instruments
Notes 16, 23 and 25 to the Group Financial Statements and note 12 to 
the Parent Company Financial Statements contain disclosures relating 
to the use of financial instruments. The Group uses derivative 
financial instruments in its management of financial risks and does 
not trade in financial instruments or use complex financial 
instruments.
People
Information concerning diversity in the workforce and the employment 
of disabled persons is shown in the CR&S Report on pages 32 to 35.
Research and development
The Group continues to invest in the important area of research and 
development; further details can be found on page 23. During the 
year, the Group expended £88.0m (2012: £75.4m) on non-customer 
funded research and development. 
Events after the balance sheet date
Note 33 to the Group Financial Statements contains information  
in respect of post balance sheet events. 
Political donations and expenditure
No contributions were made to political organisations during the 
current or prior year.
65 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance
www.cobham.com Non-aviation Aviation
Scope 1
Scope 3 Scope 2
Figure 1 – Aviation and non-aviation emissions 
(tCO
2
e) for Scopes 1, 2 & 3
400,000
300,000
200,000
100,000
0 50 100 150 200 250
Scope 3
Scope 2
Non-aviation Aviation
Scope 1
Figure 2 – Aviation and non-aviation emissions 
(tCO
2
e/£m) for Scopes 1, 2 & 3
Greenhouse gas emissions
The majority of Cobham’s total greenhouse gas emissions (85%) come 
from its aviation activity (figure 1), mostly being from the Aviation 
Services business. Growth in this business yields an increase in 
Cobham’s absolute emissions (figure 1) and emissions intensity (figure 2).
Aviation Non-aviation Total
tCO
2
e % tCO
2
e % tCO
2
e
*Scope 1 77 ,066 84 14,277 16 91,343
*Scope 2 N/A – 48,276 100 48,276
Scope 3 384,860 95 21,640 5 406,500
Total 461,926 85 84,193 15 546,119
tCO
2
e/£m Year Aviation Non-aviation % Total change
Scope 1
2012 49 5
(5) 2013 43 8
Scope 2
2012 N/A 30
(10) 2013 N/A 27
Scope 3
2012 206 8
 7 2013 216 12
Definitions:
 Scope 1 comprises direct emissions from owned plant and equipment including aviation fuel, 
natural gas, heating oil, non-automotive diesel, fugitive emissions, solvent emissions and 
automotive fuel.
 Scope 2 comprises indirect emissions from purchased renewable and non-renewable electricity.
 Scope 3 comprises indirect emissions from non-owned plant and equipment including aviation 
fuel and business travel (train, air and car).
Methodology and data verification
Cobham collects data annually on greenhouse gas emissions from  
its wholly-owned operational subsidiaries. Cobham uses the World 
Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) & World 
Resources Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol method  
to report its greenhouse gas emissions and defines its emissions 
boundary as those under its direct operational control. 
Reported data excludes joint ventures not under Cobham’s 
operational control, sites with less than five people, sites leased to 
tenants, vacant properties being disposed of, and any business units 
that have been closed or divested during the course of the year for 
which there is less than six months of reported data. A further seven 
locations were omitted by our business units from reporting in error, 
although our assessment is that these are not material. 
100% of Cobham’s wholly-owned operations have been reviewed internally 
to identify omissions and significant variations from the prior year.
Data assurance
We engaged KPMG LLP to undertake a limited assurance engagement, 
reporting to Cobham plc, using the assurance standards ISAE 3000 and 
ISAE 3410 over the data that has been highlighted in this report with‘*’. 
Their full statement is available at www.cobhamsustainability.com  
and they have provided an unqualified opinion on the data. The level of 
assurance provided for a limited assurance engagement is substantially 
lower than a reasonable assurance engagement. In order to reach  
their opinion they performed a range of procedures which included 
interviews with management, examination of reporting systems, four  
site visits to our operations in the UK, Australia and US as well as specific 
data testing at these sites and Head Office. A summary of the work they 
performed is included within their assurance opinion.
Limited external assurance was provided on the Group’s Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 GHG data for 2013. Non financial performance information, 
greenhouse gas quantification in particular, is subject to more inherent 
limitations than financial information. It is important to read the 
selected CR&S information contained within the CR&S report in the 
context of the full limited assurance statement and the reporting 
guidelines set out in the footnotes to the data tables on ‘Energy & 
Climate’ at www.cobhamsustainability.com. 
 
Further detail on Cobham’s CR&S approach, objectives and 
performance is available on pages 32 to 35.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s AGM will be held at 12 noon on Thursday, 24 April 
2014 at the offices of UBS Investment Bank, 1 Finsbury Avenue, 
London EC2M 2PP .
The Company arranges for the Notice of AGM and related papers to 
be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
By order of the Board
L Colloff
Company Secretary
5 March 2014
66 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ Report continued The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
Accounts, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Group Financial 
Statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors have prepared 
the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, and the 
Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards) and applicable law. Under company law, the 
Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of 
the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group 
and the Company for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to:
•	 Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
•	 Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
•	 State whether IFRS, as adopted by the EU, and applicable UK 
Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the Group and the Parent 
Company Financial Statements respectively; and
•	 Prepare the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements  
on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume  
that the Company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions  
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure 
that the Group Financial Statements and the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the  
Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They  
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company  
and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity  
of the Group’s website (www.cobham.com). Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements 
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken  
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
 
Directors’ responsibility statement
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on 
pages 36 and 37, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
•	 The Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared  
in accordance with the IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit 
of the Group; and
•	 The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces.
Directors’ declaration in relation to relevant audit information
In the case of each Director in office at the date the Directors’ 
Report is approved, that:
a. So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Group’s auditors were unaware; and
b. He or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have 
taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of 
any relevant audit information and to establish that the Group’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
The responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors 
on 5 March 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
R Murphy
Chief Executive Officer
S Nicholls
Chief Financial Officer
67 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance
www.cobham.com
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities A1 The Board’s role
The Board meets nine times a year in order 
to review the Company’s performance and 
strategy against set objectives. The Board’s 
role is to lead the Group with a view to the 
creation of strong, sustainable financial 
performance and long term shareholder 
value, to approve the Group’s Strategic  
Plan and to monitor management 
performance against plan. 
The Board has adopted a clear schedule  
of matters reserved for its specific 
approval, including a framework for those 
decisions which can be delegated to 
committees or otherwise. 
Further details can be found in the 
Corporate Governance Report.
A2 A clear division of responsibilities
The Board’s policy is that the roles of the 
Chairman and CEO should be performed 
by different people. The division of 
responsibilities is documented and clearly 
understood. The Chairman is responsible 
for the leadership and effectiveness  
of the Board, and the CEO is responsible 
for leading the day-to-day management 
of the Company within the strategy set 
by the Board. 
A3 Role of the Chairman
The Chairman sets the agenda for 
meetings, manages the meeting timetable 
and facilitates open and constructive 
dialogue during the meetings.
A4 Role of the Non-executive Directors
The Chairman promotes an open  
and constructive environment in the 
boardroom and actively invites the 
Non-executive Directors’ views. 
The Senior Independent Director, Michael 
Wareing, held a meeting with the Non-
executives in the absence of the Chairman 
to appraise the Chairman’s performance. 
The Chairman has held regular meetings  
with the Non-executives in the absence 
of Executive Directors, providing  
an opportunity for any concerns  
to be discussed. 
 
B1 The Board’s composition
The composition of the Board is reviewed 
regularly by the Nomination Committee to 
ensure that there is an appropriate mix of 
skills on the Board and a range of diverse 
experience. Board members’ biographies 
are provided on pages 36 and 37 , which 
identify the experience each Director 
brings to the Board. A table identifying  
the skills and experience of the Board 
members may be found on page 43.
The Board determines, through the 
Nomination Committee, the independence 
of its members. Conflicts of interest are 
also monitored and updated at least 
annually and more frequently as and  
when required. 
The Board currently consists of nine 
individuals, the Chairman, two Executive 
Directors, and six independent  
Non-executive Directors.
B2 Board appointments
The appointment of new Directors to the 
Board is led by the Nomination Committee. 
The Nomination Committee terms of 
reference, as published on the Company 
website, document the responsibility 
regarding Board appointments. The 
Committee consists of all six Non-executive 
Directors and the Chairman. Further details  
of the appointments undertaken during  
the year and succession planning can be 
found on page 43. 
B3 Time commitments
The time commitments of Non-executive 
Directors are defined on appointment and 
regularly evaluated. The Chairman gives 
consideration to new directorships which 
may impact existing time commitments.
B4 Training and development
On appointment, Directors undertake  
a structured induction programme, which  
is supplemented by visits to key locations  
and meetings with senior executives. Further 
training for Directors is offered when taking  
a new role on a Committee, and is otherwise 
available as required and may be provided 
through tailored programmes. 
Further details can be found in the 
Directors’ professional development 
section on page 43.
B5 Provision of information  
and support
The Chairman, in conjunction with the 
Company Secretary, ensures that all  
Board members receive accurate and 
timely information. 
68 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
For the year ended 31 December 2013, the Board believes that the Company 
has complied with the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. A full version of the UK Corporate Governance Code  
can be found on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk. 
Further details on how compliance is achieved can be found in the  
Corporate Governance and Directors’ Remuneration Reports.
A
Leadership
B 
Effectiveness B6 Board and committees 
performance evaluation
The Board and the Board Committees 
undertook an internal evaluation in 2013. 
Details of the process undertaken and  
a table of actions instigated by this 
evaluation are included on page 40. 
B7 Re-election of the Directors
All Directors were subject to shareholder 
re-election at the 2013 AGM.
C1 Financial and business reporting
The Statement of the Directors’ 
Responsibilities is set out on page 67,  
and the Independent Auditors’ Reports 
are on pages 70 to 73, and pages 125  
and 126. 
The Company’s business model is explained 
on pages 4 and 5.
C2 Risk management and  
internal control systems
The Board sets the Company’s risk appetite 
and annually reviews the effectiveness  
of the Company’s risk management and 
internal control systems. The activities  
of the Audit and Risk Committees, which 
assist the Board with its responsibilities  
in relation to risk management, reporting 
and assurance, are set out on page 46.
C3 Role and responsibilities  
of the Audit Committee 
Details of the composition of the Audit 
Committee, and how the Committee has 
discharged its responsibilities during the 
year, are provided in the Audit Committee 
Report on pages 44 to 47.
D1 Levels and elements  
of remuneration
The Board believes that the Group’s 
Remuneration Policy continues to enable 
the Group to attract, retain and motivate 
the executive talent required for the delivery 
of its business strategy, while linking closely 
to the long term performance of the Group 
and the interests of shareholders. For  
further information, see the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy on pages 49 to 54.
D2 Development of remuneration 
policy and packages
The membership of the Remuneration 
Committee is made up of Non-executive 
Directors only. The terms of reference  
for the Remuneration Committee are 
reviewed annually and are available on 
the Company website. 
The Remuneration Committee has 
delegated authority for setting the 
remuneration of Executive Directors and 
the Chairman. The fees payable to the 
Non-executive Directors are determined 
by the Board, on recommendation from 
the Executive Directors Committee.
E1 Shareholder engagement  
and dialogue
Effective communication and 
engagement with investors are of 
paramount importance to the continued 
success of the Company. The Company 
maintains a relationship with shareholders 
through a series of roadshows completed 
through the year, which are usually 
attended by the CEO and the CFO.  
Further details can be found in the 
Corporate Governance Report on  
pages 40 and 41. 
E2 Constructive use of the AGM
The Board values the AGM as an important 
opportunity to engage with investors. 
Attendees at the AGM have the opportunity 
to ask questions to the Board and to speak 
to individual Directors following the formal 
business of the meeting.
69 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance
www.cobham.com
C 
Accountability
D 
Remuneration
E
Relations with shareholders Report on the Group Financial Statements 
Our opinion  
In our opinion the Group Financial Statements defined below:
•	 Give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs  
as at 31 December 2013 and of the Group’s profit and cash  
flows for the year then ended;
•	 Have been properly prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union; and
•	 Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements  
of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the 
remainder of this report.
What we have audited
The Group Financial Statements, which are prepared by Cobham plc, 
comprise:
•	 The Consolidated Income Statement and Statement of 
Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2013;
•	 The Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2013;
•	 The Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and Cash  
Flow Statement for the year then ended; and
•	 The notes to the Group Financial Statements, which include  
a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework 
have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts 
(Annual Report), rather than in the notes to the Financial Statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are 
identified as audited.
What an audit of Financial Statements involves 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (ISAs (UK & Ireland)). An audit involves 
obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or error. This includes an assessment of:
•	 Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed;
•	 The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made  
by the Directors; and 
•	 The overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information  
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited Group Financial Statements and to identify any information 
that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course  
of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the 
implications for our report.
Overview of our audit approach
Materiality
We set certain thresholds for materiality. These helped us to 
determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures  
and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually  
and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality  
for the Group Financial Statements as a whole to be £14m which  
is approximately 5% of underlying profit before taxation. We  
used underlying profit before taxation to exclude amortisation  
of intangible assets acquired in business combinations and to  
remove the effect of volatility such as exceptional costs.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them 
misstatements identified during our audit above £0.5m as well as 
misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted 
reporting for qualitative reasons. 
Overview of the scope of our audit
The Group is structured along four reported segments, being 
Aerospace and Security, Defence Systems, Mission Systems and 
Aviation Services. The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation 
of 59 reporting units within these segments, comprising the Group’s 
operating businesses and centralised functions. 
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we 
determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the 
reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or subsidiary 
audit teams from other PwC network firms operating under our 
instruction. Where the work was performed by subsidiary audit 
teams, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have  
in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude 
whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as 
a basis for our opinion on the Group Financial Statements as a whole. 
Accordingly, of the Group’s 59 reporting units, we identified 22 
which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial 
information, either due to their size, their risk characteristics or 
because some are covered on a rotational basis over a two or three 
year cycle. Specific audit procedures on certain balances and 
transactions were performed at a further 15 reporting units. Audit 
procedures were performed at principal manufacturing locations, 
both significant Aviation Services reporting units and new 
acquisitions in the year. 
Where subsidiary audit teams performed work at the reporting unit 
level on behalf of the Group audit team, this work was performed to 
lower materiality levels appropriate to the individual units (which are 
typically subject to local audit requirements). These materiality levels 
ranged from £0.7m to £4.5m. 
The reporting units in scope covered 92% of the Group’s underlying 
profit before taxation and 89% of the Group’s revenue. This, together 
with additional procedures performed at the Group level, gave us  
the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group Financial 
Statements as a whole.
70 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Cobham plc Areas of particular audit focus
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant 
accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. We primarily focused  
our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating  
the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to 
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year. This is not a complete list of all risks or areas 
of focus identified by our audit. We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee. Their report on those matters that they 
considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 46. 
The Group has significant goodwill and intangible 
asset balances arising from acquisitions. The 
Directors formally assess the carrying value  
of these assets on an annual basis.
We focused on this area because it involves 
complex and subjective judgements by the 
Directors about the future results of the 
business. As a result of the Directors’ assessment, 
an impairment charge of £63m was recorded; see 
note 11 of the Group Financial Statements.
  I mp a i r m e n t  
assessment
The Group has a number of significant, complex 
development and production contracts which 
span more than one accounting period. 
We focused on this area as the assessment  
of contract performance over a long duration  
is often subjective and dependent upon engineering 
assessments as well as financial estimates.
  A cco u n t i n g  
for contract 
profitability, 
including the 
recognition  
of contract  
loss provisions
ISAs (UK & Ireland) presume there is a risk of 
fraud in relation to revenue recognition as most 
businesses, including the Group, face this risk.
We focused on cut-off around the year-end 
because material revenue transactions can  
occur close to that date and the recognition of 
significant milestones on development contracts 
which often involve some judgement surrounding 
the achievement of those milestones.
  R e v e nu e 
recognition 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) require that we consider this, 
because management in all businesses are in  
a position of authority that means they can 
override internal controls established to prevent 
fraud or error.
  R i sk o f 
management 
override  
of internal 
controls
In evaluating whether any impairment was necessary to the carrying value of 
goodwill and intangible assets, our audit work involved obtaining evidence 
regarding its recoverable amount and how it compared to the amount at 
which it is currently recorded. We evaluated the Directors’ future cash flow 
forecasts, including comparing them with the latest Board approved strategic 
plans and looked at historic performance. We challenged the Directors’ key 
assumptions within these plans, including the discount rate and growth rates. 
We also performed sensitivity analysis around those key assumptions. Having 
ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually 
or collectively would be required for the asset to be impaired, we considered 
the likelihood of such movement in those key assumptions arising. For the asset 
impaired in the year we checked the calculation of the impairment charge.
We have reviewed the basis of profit recognition on the Group’s key 
contracts. We evaluated the accounting in the context of the Group 
accounting policies and contract terms.
We have assessed the design of controls in place over key contracts, 
including the adequacy and frequency of programme reviews performed  
by management.
We examined the assumptions behind estimated costs to complete, 
challenging the reasonableness of these in light of supporting evidence.
We evaluated the reasonableness of estimated revenue for customer claims 
submitted to recover additional costs incurred, including considering legal 
advice received where appropriate.
We tested manual journals posted to revenue to check whether there was 
any indication of fraud. 
We tested the timing of revenue recognition of transactions close to the 
period end to establish whether they were recorded in the correct period. 
We tested the basis of revenue recognition on key development contracts, 
evaluating the revenue recognised against contract terms and evidence  
of customer acceptance of specific milestones reached.
We assessed the overall control environment of the Group.
We tested manual journal entries. We examined the significant accounting 
estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence 
of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement 
due to fraud. We also incorporated an element of unpredictability into our 
testing plans.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus
71 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.cobham.com
Group Financial Statements Going concern
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the Directors’ 
statement, set out on page 27, in relation to going concern. We  
have nothing to report having performed our review. As noted  
in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded that  
it is appropriate to prepare the Group’s financial statements using  
the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis 
presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in 
operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one 
year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part  
of our audit, we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the  
going concern basis is appropriate. However, because not all future 
events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a 
guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the Group Financial 
Statements are prepared is consistent with the Group Financial 
Statements; and
•	 The information given in the Corporate Governance Report  
set out on pages 38 to 47 in the Annual Report with respect to 
internal control and risk management systems and about share 
capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Other matters on which we are required to report  
by exception
Adequacy of information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you  
if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit. We have no exceptions  
to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you  
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration 
specified by law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules  
we are required to review certain elements of the report to 
shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration. We have  
no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
Corporate governance statement
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you,  
if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been 
prepared by the Parent Company. We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the part of the 
corporate governance statement relating to the Company’s compliance 
with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code). 
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
On page 67 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1. 1, 
the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole 
to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for members to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy. On page 46, as required by C.3.8 of the Code, the 
Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in 
relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed. Under 
ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•	 The statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent 
with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or
•	 The section of the Annual Report describing the work of the 
Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other information in the Annual Report
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
•	 Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited  
Group Financial Statements; or
•	 Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired  
in the course of performing our audit; or
•	 Is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
72 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Independent Auditors’ Report continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
set out on page 67, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the Group Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group 
Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs  
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only 
for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We 
do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for 
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is 
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial 
Statements of Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 
and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that 
is described as having been audited.
Stuart Watson 
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
5 March 2014
73 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.cobham.com
Group Financial Statements £m Note 2013
2012 
(as restated)
Revenue 4 1,789.7 1,749.4
Cost of sales (1,220.9) (1,173.3)
Gross profit 568.8 576.1
Selling and distribution costs (84.7) (81.1)
Administrative expenses (328.4) (264.9)
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 3.1 7.4
Operating profit 158.8 237.5
Finance income 6 5.3 6.8
Finance costs 6 (37.5) (40.3)
Profit before taxation 126.6 204.0
Taxation 7 (12.1) (32.2)
Profit after taxation for the year 114.5 171.8
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 114.3 171.7
Non-controlling interests 0.2 0.1
114.5 171.8
Earnings per Ordinary Share 9
Basic 10.70p 15.98p
Diluted 10.65p 15.93p
Trading profit is calculated as follows:
£m Note 2013
2012 
(as restated)
Operating profit 158.8 237.5
Adjusted to exclude:
Business restructuring – Excellence in Delivery 56.1 37.9
Movements in non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments (2.2) (11.1)
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 103.9 68.9
Impairment of goodwill 63.0 –
Revaluation gain arising on equity interests in FBH (2012: Thrane & Thrane) (62.1) (1.0)
Other business acquisition and divestment related items 0.1 (0.2)
Trading profit 3 317.6 332.0
Underlying EPS 21.60p 22.48p
The definitions of trading profit and underlying EPS are shown in note 1. 
74 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2013 £m Note 2013
2012  
(as restated)
Profit after taxation for the year 114.5 171.8
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Remeasurements of defined benefit retirement benefit obligations 24 (25.6) (13.7)
Actuarial loss on other retirement benefit obligations 24 – (0.5)
Tax effects 7 4.1 2.0
(21.5) (12.2)
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss
Net translation differences on investments in overseas subsidiaries 27 (11.1) (24.0)
Reclassification of cash flow hedge fair values 23 4.5 7.2
Movements in hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 23 0.6 (3.1)
Tax effects 7 (1.2) (3.2)
(7.2) (23.1)
Total other comprehensive expense for the year (28.7) (35.3)
Total comprehensive income for the year 85.8 136.5
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 85.6 136.4
Non-controlling interests 0.2 0.1
85.8 136.5
75 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com
Consolidated Statement  
of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 2013 £m Note 2013 2012
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 11 1,162.2 1,102.1
Property, plant and equipment 12 350.8 304.8
Investment properties 13 9.9 10.7
Investments in joint ventures and associates 14 3.1 15.8
Trade and other receivables 17 22.2 47.1
Other financial assets 16 6.1 –
Deferred tax 22 9.9 9.8
Derivative financial instruments 23 5.1 3.4
1,569.3 1,493.7
Current assets
Inventories 15 315.9 306.4
Trade and other receivables 17 317.7 281.0
Current tax receivables 0.8 7.5
Derivative financial instruments 23 6.6 3.7
Cash and cash equivalents 10 200.7 264.2
Assets classified as held for sale 18 8.2 15.1
849.9 877.9
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Borrowings 19 (344.5) (307.3)
Trade and other payables 20 (370.3) (349.9)
Provisions 21 (34.4) (36.3)
Current tax liabilities (112.2) (119.2)
Derivative financial instruments 23 (4.6) (6.6)
Liabilities classified as held for sale 18 (5.2) (3.2)
(871.2) (822.5)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 19 (309.6) (316.8)
Trade and other payables 20 (38.0) (39.1)
Provisions 21 (8.6) (10.9)
Deferred tax 22 (52.9) (44.2)
Derivative financial instruments 23 (7.4) (10.3)
Retirement benefit obligations 24 (87.3) (73.4)
(503.8) (494.7)
Net assets 1,044.2 1,054.4
76 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2013 £m Note 2013 2012
Equity
Share capital 26 28.9 28.9
Share premium account 126.6 126.6
Other reserves 27 55.2 64.2
Retained earnings 832.7 834.1
Total equity attributable to the owners of the parent 1,043.4 1,053.8
Non-controlling interests in equity 0.8 0.6
Total equity 1,044.2 1,054.4
Net debt 10 (453.4) (359.9)
The financial statements on pages 74 to 124 were approved by a duly appointed and authorised committee of the Board on 5 March 2014  
and signed on its behalf by:
R Murphy    S Nicholls
Directors
77 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com £m
Share 
capital
Share 
premium 
account
Other 
reserves 
(note 27)
Retained 
earnings
Total  
equity 
attributable 
to owners  
of the parent
Non-
controlling 
interests in 
equity
Total  
equity
Total equity at 1 January 2012 28.9 126.6 83.8 779.3 1,018.6 0.5 1,019.1
Profit for the year (as restated) – – – 171.7 171.7 0.1 171.8
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (as restated) – – – (12.2) (12.2) – (12.2)
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss – – (23.1) – (23.1) – (23.1)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – (23.1) 159.5 136.4 0.1 136.5
Net purchase of treasury shares – – – (18.7) (18.7) – (18.7)
Dividends (note 8) – – – (92.5) (92.5) – (92.5)
Share based payments (note 28) – – 6.8 – 6.8 – 6.8
Dividend equivalents paid on vesting of PSP and BCP awards – – (0.1) – (0.1) – (0.1)
Release of hedge reserve – – 2.8 – 2.8 – 2.8
Transfers of other reserves to retained earnings – – (6.5) 6.5 – – –
Tax effects (note 7) – – 0.5 – 0.5 – 0.5
Total equity at 31 December 2012 28.9 126.6 64.2 834.1 1,053.8 0.6 1,054.4
Profit for the year – – – 114.3 114.3 0.2 114.5
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss – – – (21.5) (21.5) – (21.5)
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss – – (7.2) – (7.2) – (7.2)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – (7.2) 92.8 85.6 0.2 85.8
Net purchase of treasury shares – – – (1.8) (1.8) – (1.8)
Dividends (note 8) – – – (96.6) (96.6) – (96.6)
Share based payments (note 28) – – (1.7) – (1.7) – (1.7)
Release of hedge reserve – – 1.5 – 1.5 – 1.5
Transfers of other reserves to retained earnings – – (4.2) 4.2 – – –
Tax effects (note 7) – – 2.6 – 2.6 – 2.6
Total equity at 31 December 2013 28.9 126.6 55.2 832.7 1,043.4 0.8 1,044.2
78 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2013 £m Note 2013 2012
Operating profit (as restated for prior year) 158.8 237.5
Non-cash items: 
Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates (3.1) (7.4)
Revaluation gain arising on equity interests 29 (62.1) (1.0)
Depreciation and amortisation including impairment 235.1 129.2
(Profit)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (1.1) 0.6
Business acquisition and divestment related items (1.6) (6.6)
Movements in non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 23 (2.2) (11.1)
Pension contributions in excess of service cost and administration cost (as restated for prior year) 24 (14.5) (14.3)
Share based payments 28 (1.7) 6.8
Operating cash movements:
Increase in inventories (0.3) (3.6)
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (26.2) 34.4
Decrease in trade and other payables (0.3) (1.0)
Decrease in provisions (3.9) (1.4)
Tax paid (37.6) (45.2)
Interest paid (33.7) (35.3)
Interest received 5.0 6.6
Net cash from operating activities 210.6 288.2
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends received from joint ventures 32 3.7 7.5
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (58.0) (48.2)
Purchase of intangible assets (11.7) (13.8)
Capitalised expenditure on intangible assets 11 – (1.4)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 8.0 1.0
Investment in other financial assets (6.1) –
Loans repaid by/(issued to) joint ventures 2.1 (36.9)
Investment in loan notes (18.3) –
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash or debt acquired 29 (126.0) (282.7)
Contingent consideration paid (2.5) (3.0)
Proceeds from vesting of warrants in acquired business – 8.4
Proceeds of business divestments 0.5 47.4
Net cash used in investing activities (208.3) (321.7)
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid 8 (96.6) (92.5)
Purchase of treasury shares (15.3) (26.3)
Proceeds on allocation of treasury shares 13.5 7.5
New borrowings 67.0 184.5
Repayment of borrowings (7.7) (113.1)
Net cash used in financing activities (39.1) (39.9)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (36.8) (73.4)
Exchange movements (14.4) (8.3)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 250.2 331.9
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 10 199.0 250.2
A reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents to the Consolidated Balance Sheet and movement in net debt is detailed in note 10.
79 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 1. Accounting Policies
General information
These financial statements are the consolidated financial statements 
of Cobham plc (the Company), a public company limited by shares, 
registered and domiciled in the United Kingdom and its subsidiaries 
(the Group). 
Basis of preparation
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)  
as adopted by the EU, International Financial Reporting Interpretation 
Council (IFRIC) interpretations and those parts of the Companies  
Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern 
basis under the historical cost convention, as modified by the 
revaluation of derivative financial instruments and assets held  
for sale which are held at fair value.
Principal accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently 
applied unless otherwise stated, are as set out below. 
Accounting developments
New standards and amendments to standards which have been 
adopted with effect from 1 January 2013 and which impact these 
financial statements are as follows: 
•	 The implementation of IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement has 
required some amendments to disclosures on financial instruments 
but has not affected the fair value measurements used.
•	 The amendment to IAS 19, Employee Benefits has been applied 
retrospectively. This resulted in a reduction in the prior year 
reported profit after tax of £1.6m; further details are provided  
in note 2.
•	 The amendment to IAS 1, Financial Statement Presentation has 
impacted the presentation of items within Other Comprehensive 
Income (OCI), grouping items on the basis of whether they can, 
or cannot, be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss. 
In addition, the following standards, amendments to standards and 
interpretations have been adopted with effect from 1 January 2013. 
However no changes to previously published accounting policies  
or other adjustments were required on their adoption. 
•	 Amendment to IAS 12, Deferred tax: Recovery  
of Underlying Assets 
•	 Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures – 
offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 
•	 Amendments to IFRS 1, First time adoption – Government  
Grants and Hyperinflation 
•	 Annual Improvements 2011 
•	 IFRIC 20, Stripping Costs in the Production Phase  
of a Surface Mine 
Management judgement and estimation uncertainty
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS 
requires the use of estimates and judgements that affect the 
application of accounting policies and reported amounts of assets, 
liabilities, revenue and expenses.
These estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and  
are based on historical experience and other factors, including 
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable 
under the circumstances. The current economic conditions have 
been considered when evaluating accounting estimates and 
judgements, including the application of the going concern basis  
of preparation. Although estimates are based on management’s best 
knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately 
may differ from those estimates.
The Board considers that the key assumptions concerning the future, 
and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet 
date, which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment  
to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next financial 
year, are as follows:
Intangible assets recognised on acquisition
On completion of a business combination, the cost is allocated  
by recognising the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities acquired at fair value. Intangible assets are recognised 
where they are separable or arise from contractual or legal rights, 
and have a fair value that can be measured reliably. For the Group, 
these intangible assets usually comprise contractual arrangements, 
customer relationships and technology based assets, but can also 
include acquired patents, software rights and licences and 
development costs. 
In establishing the fair value for intangible assets recognised on 
acquisition and their estimated useful lives, the Group takes account 
of the individual circumstances of the entity acquired. Factors 
considered include trading data, the value and duration of contracts 
acquired and the strength, duration and degree of exclusivity of 
relationships with customers. Valuation estimates are also used, 
including the estimation of likely external royalty rates that could  
be associated with technology and branding assets and attributable 
future cash flows. 
Impairment of goodwill
A review of the carrying value of goodwill is completed at least once  
a year to ensure that it is not impaired. This requires estimation of the 
value in use of the cash generating units (CGUs) to which the goodwill 
is allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an 
estimate of the expected future cash flows from the CGUs and also to 
choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value 
of those cash flows. Further details are given in note 11.
80 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements Taxation
The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant 
judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for tax. 
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax 
determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. The 
Group recognises liabilities based on estimates of whether additional 
taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is 
different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences 
will impact the current and deferred tax provisions and the income 
statement in the period in which such determination is made.
Retirement benefits
The Group Financial Statements include costs and liabilities in relation 
to retirement benefit obligations. A number of assumptions are made 
in assessing the costs and present value of the pension assets and 
liabilities, which include the long term rate of increase of salary costs, 
discount rate, inflation, and mortality rates. The Group uses published 
indices and independent actuarial advice to select the values of 
critical assumptions, which are disclosed in note 24. 
Provisions 
Where appropriate, the consolidated financial statements include 
provisions for the estimated outcome of commercial disputes and 
other claims, including those with long term contract partners. The 
Directors take account of the advice of experts in quantifying the 
expected costs of future adverse outcomes. Due to the inherent 
uncertainty associated with such disputes and any related legal 
proceedings, the timing and determination of the amount of any 
payments under such claims could differ from the amounts provided.
Definitions
Underlying measures
To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group  
has included within its published financial statements non-GAAP 
measures including trading profit and underlying earnings results. 
These are considered by the Board to be the most meaningful 
measures under which to assess the true operating performance  
of the Group.
All underlying measures include the operational results of all 
operations including those available for sale until the point of sale. 
Trading profit
This has been defined as operating profit from continuing operations 
excluding the impacts of business acquisition and divestment related 
activity and business restructuring costs as detailed below. Also excluded 
are changes in the marking to market of non-hedge accounted derivative 
financial instruments, impairments of intangible assets, and items 
deemed by the Directors to be of an exceptional nature.
Business acquisition and divestment related items excluded from 
trading profit and underlying earnings include the amortisation  
of intangible assets recognised on acquisition, the revaluation  
gain arising on the original equity interests in FBH, adjustments to 
businesses held for sale, the writing off of the pre-acquisition profit 
element of inventory written up on acquisition, other direct costs 
associated with business combinations and terminated divestments, 
and adjustments to contingent consideration related to previously 
acquired businesses.
Business restructuring costs relate to the restructuring of the Group’s 
portfolio which are incremental to normal operations. These relate 
exclusively to the ongoing design and implementation of Standard 
Operating Frameworks within the principal locations, initial 
development costs of a new ERP computer system, together with 
site consolidation, consequential asset write downs and workforce 
reduction costs arising from additional streamlining under the  
two year extension of the EiD programme to the end of 2015.
Underlying earnings 
Underlying earnings are defined as trading profit less net underlying 
finance costs, which excludes the unwinding of acquisition related 
discounting, and after deducting associated taxation and non-
controlling interests.
Net debt 
Net debt is defined as the net of borrowings less cash and cash 
equivalents at the balance sheet date.
Free cash flow 
Free cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities plus 
dividends received from joint ventures, less cash flows related to the 
purchase or disposal of property, plant, equipment and intangible 
assets but excluding payments relating to M&A related activities.
Operating segments
The chief operating decision making body for the Group has been 
identified as the Board. It reviews the Group’s internal reporting in order 
to assess performance and allocate resources. Details of the composition 
and purpose of the Board can be found on pages 38 and 39.
The Group reports four operating segments whose revenue and results 
are reported to the Board. These are Aerospace and Security, Defence 
Systems, Mission Systems and Aviation Services. All operating 
segments meet the definition of reportable segments as defined  
in IFRS 8. The principal activities of these segments are described  
on pages 14 to 21. 
The Board assesses the trading performance of operating segments 
based on revenue and trading profit as defined above. Finance income, 
finance costs and taxation are not segmented and are reviewed by the 
Board on a Group basis. Segment net assets are disclosed voluntarily  
in note 4 and include intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, 
investment properties, inventory, trade and other receivables, trade 
and other payables and provisions. They do not include tax, net debt, 
derivative financial instruments, contingent consideration payable  
or retirement benefit obligations. 
Basis of consolidation
The Group Financial Statements include the financial statements  
of the parent company, Cobham plc, and of all its subsidiaries made 
up to the end of the financial period. 
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Company has control, 
which is defined as the power to govern the financial and operating 
policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. 
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is 
transferred to the Company until the date that control ceases. On 
derecognition, any amounts previously recognised in OCI in respect 
81 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed 
of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts 
previously recognised in OCI are reclassified to profit or loss.
Joint ventures are entities where control is shared with one or more 
third parties. Associates are entities where the Group has significant 
influence but do not meet the definition of a subsidiary or joint 
venture. Joint ventures and associates are not consolidated but  
are accounted for using the equity method. The Group Financial 
Statements include the Group’s share of the post-acquisition change 
in net assets and the post-tax profit or loss of jointly controlled 
entities and associates from the date that joint control or significant 
influence commences until the date this ceases. 
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are 
eliminated on consolidation. 
Foreign currencies
The presentation currency of the Group is sterling. Most Group 
companies, including the parent company, use their local currency  
as their functional currency. Transactions in currencies other than  
the functional currency are translated at the exchange rate ruling  
at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in non-functional currencies are retranslated at the 
exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange 
differences arising are taken to the Consolidated Income Statement. 
For consolidation purposes, the assets and liabilities of foreign 
operations are translated at the closing exchange rates. Income 
statements of such undertakings are consolidated at the average 
rates of exchange as an approximation for actual rates during the 
year. Exchange differences arising on these translations are 
accounted for in OCI and the translation reserve.
Business combinations
Businesses acquired are accounted for using the acquisition method 
of accounting with effect from the date control passes. The cost  
of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the consideration 
transferred. This is the fair value of the assets transferred (typically 
cash), the liabilities assumed and any equity interests issued by the 
Group, including contingent or deferred amounts. 
Where a business combination is completed in stages, any previously 
held interests are remeasured to fair value at the date at which control 
is achieved. Any resulting gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated 
Income Statement. Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred. 
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities 
assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their  
fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the consideration 
transferred over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable 
net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Contingent consideration includes amounts which may become 
payable in connection with completed acquisitions, based upon 
future operating results of the businesses acquired. It is accounted 
for as a financial liability measured at fair value on a recurring basis 
and changes in the fair value are accounted for as gains or losses 
recognised through profit or loss and excluded from trading profit 
and underlying earnings. 
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the right to consideration, 
net of returns, rebates and other similar allowances.
Revenue from the sale of goods not under a long term contract is 
recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership and 
effective control of the goods have been passed to the customer, 
recovery of the consideration is probable, and the amount of 
revenue and costs can be measured reliably. In the case of contracts 
with a long duration, including contracts with a funded development 
phase, revenue is recognised based upon the fair value of work 
performed to date assessed with reference to completed contract 
milestones which have been accepted by the customer. 
Long term contract accounting as described in IAS 11, Construction 
Contracts is not generally applicable to the longer term contracts for 
sales of goods entered into by Group companies. Where long term 
contract accounting is applicable, revenue is recognised on a percentage 
of completion basis whereby a portion of the contract revenue is 
recognised based on contract costs incurred to date compared with 
total estimated costs at completion. 
Revenue for services is recognised as the services are rendered with 
reference to the proportion of the service delivered to date. For 
‘cost-plus’ contracts (typically with government departments and 
agencies), revenue is recognised to the extent of reimbursable costs 
incurred, plus a proportionate amount of the estimated fee earned.  
For contracts where revenue is determined on a unit activity basis, 
revenue is recognised on the basis of activity undertaken in the period.
Revenue excludes intercompany sales, value added tax and other 
sales taxes. 
Taxation including deferred taxation
The tax expense is the sum of current tax and deferred tax. 
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, which differs from 
profit before taxation as reported in the income statement. Taxable 
profit excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or 
deductible in other years and also excludes items that are never 
taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated 
using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method 
in respect of temporary differences arising between the tax bases  
of assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated 
financial statements. 
Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates and laws that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and that are 
expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability 
is settled. T ax is charged or credited to the income statement except 
when it relates to items recognised in OCI or directly in equity, in which 
case the deferred tax is also dealt with in OCI or in equity respectively. 
82 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary 
differences can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets 
is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that 
it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available  
to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered. 
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments 
in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable 
right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and 
when the deferred taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
Dividends
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are 
fully authorised. 
Intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over  
the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and 
liabilities of a business at the date of acquisition. Goodwill acquired  
is allocated at acquisition to the CGUs that are expected to benefit 
from that business combination. CGUs represent the lowest level 
within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal 
management purposes. 
Goodwill arising on business combinations is capitalised and 
reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is 
recognised immediately in the income statement and cannot  
be subsequently reversed.
On divestment of a business the attributable amount of goodwill  
is included in the determination of the profit or loss on divestment. 
This includes any exchange differences reclassified to the income 
statement from the translation reserve.
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets other than goodwill which are acquired by the Group 
are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment 
losses. These include customer relationships, technology and 
software, trademarks, licences and patents. The only internally 
generated intangible assets are development costs which are 
capitalised as described below and internally developed software 
where asset recognition criteria are met. Internally developed 
software is included within other intangible assets.
All other intangible assets are amortised over the asset’s estimated 
useful life on a straight-line basis as follows:
Customer relationships 5 to 15 years 
Technology based assets 5 to 15 years
Development costs 2 to 10 years
Other intangible assets 6 months to 10 years
Useful lives are assessed for each asset on an individual basis, taking 
into account the specific characteristics of the asset. 
Research and development
Development costs are capitalised when it can be demonstrated  
that the conditions for capitalisation as described in IAS 38, 
Intangible Assets are met, paying particular attention to the 
requirements for the product to be technically feasible and capable 
of generating a financial return. At that point, further costs are 
capitalised as an intangible asset until the intangible asset is readily 
available for use and is then amortised as described above. All 
development costs not capitalised are written off as incurred 
together with all research costs.
Property, plant and equipment
Freehold and leasehold land and buildings, plant and machinery,  
and fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment are held at historic cost 
less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment 
losses. Cost comprises the purchase price and any costs directly 
attributable to the asset.
All property, plant and equipment other than land and assets under 
construction is depreciated on a straight-line basis to the estimated 
residual values over the estimated useful lives. These lives are as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years
Leasehold properties Period to next break clause
Plant and machinery 3 to 15 years
Fixtures, fittings, tools and 
equipment 3 to 15 years
Estimated residual values and the estimated useful lives are reviewed 
annually and adjusted where necessary. Freehold land is not 
depreciated, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Assets under construction are held at cost and transferred  
to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment  
once construction is complete and they enter into service. They  
are depreciated from this point in accordance with the policies 
described above.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected 
useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter,  
the term of the relevant lease. 
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is 
determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement. 
83 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com Aircraft overhaul expenditure
Major overhaul expenditure on owned aircraft is capitalised 
when incurred and the resultant property, plant and equipment is 
depreciated over its useful economic life. Major overhaul costs that 
are contractually required on aircraft held under operating leases  
are provided for over the period between the scheduled 
maintenance events. 
Investment properties
Investment properties, which are properties held to earn rentals  
or for capital appreciation, are stated at cost in the balance sheet. 
They are depreciated on a straight-line basis to their estimated 
residual value over their estimated useful lives of up to 50 years. 
Rental income is recognised as revenue on a straight-line basis.
Impairment losses
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets are 
reviewed at least annually to determine whether there is any 
indication of impairment. In addition, intangible assets with an 
indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, are tested for impairment 
annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may  
be impaired.
Where there is an indication of impairment, the asset’s recoverable 
amount is estimated. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair 
value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the 
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value 
using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for 
which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
An impairment loss is recognised where the recoverable amount  
of an asset is lower than its carrying amount. All impairment losses 
are recognised in the income statement. 
An impairment loss (other than arising on goodwill) is reversed only  
after a change in the estimates used to assess recoverable amount  
is identified and only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount  
does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, 
net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been 
recognised. Any reversal is recognised in the income statement.
Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the 
lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership  
to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. 
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the 
Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the 
minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of  
the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in  
the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments  
are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the  
lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on  
the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged 
directly to the income statement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. 
Benefits receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease 
are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour 
costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the 
inventories to their present location and condition. Cost is calculated 
using the first-in, first-out method. Net realisable value represents the 
estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and 
costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. Provision is 
made where necessary for obsolete, slow moving and defective items.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale  
are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs  
to sell. No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets 
classified as held for sale. 
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale 
if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction 
rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met 
only when the sale is highly probable and expected to be completed 
within a year of the balance sheet date. The asset or disposal group 
should be available for immediate sale in its present condition and 
actively marketed at a price that is reasonable in relation to its 
current fair value. 
Fair values
The fair value of an asset or liability is the price that would be 
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the balance sheet date. 
Fair value measurements are used on a recurring basis except where 
used in the measurement of net assets classified as held for sale, 
where accounting standards require the use of fair values only  
in certain circumstances. Non-recurring fair values are also used  
in the valuation of assets and liabilities in a business combination. 
The fair values of derivative financial instruments have been 
determined by the use of valuation techniques, primarily discounted 
cash flows, based on assumptions that are supported by observable 
market prices or rates. 
The fair value of contingent consideration is determined based on 
the estimated payment, discounted to present value and using the 
entity’s own data and unobservable inputs such as the anticipated 
rate of annual revenue growth, profit margins and discount rates.  
The estimated payment is calculated using the income approach, 
considering different scenarios of the relevant profit measure 
(commonly EBITDA). 
For financial assets and liabilities which are not held at fair value in 
the balance sheet, the carrying values of these items are assumed  
to approximate to fair value due to their short term nature.
84 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Non-financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value include net 
assets classified as held for sale and fair values are also used in 
assessing the assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination. 
These fair value measurements are based on observable market 
prices or rates. For non-financial assets, the fair value takes into 
account the highest and best use of the asset.
There have been no changes to the valuation techniques used during 
the period. The Group’s policy is to recognise transfers in and transfers 
out of fair value hierarchy levels as at the date of the event or change 
in circumstances that caused the transfer, although there have been 
no such transfers during the current or comparative periods.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s 
balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument. Financial assets and liabilities are 
initially recognised at fair value at trade date.
Financial assets 
The classification of financial assets depends on the purpose  
for which the assets were acquired. Management determines  
the classification of an asset at initial recognition and re-evaluates 
the designation at each reporting date.
Assets held at fair value through profit or loss are those categorised 
as held for trading under IAS 39 and are classified as current assets  
or non-current assets dependent upon maturity. Such financial assets 
are subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed  
or determinable payments which are not quoted in an active market. 
These are classified as current or non-current assets dependent upon 
maturity and included within trade and other receivables. Loans and 
receivables also includes cash and cash equivalents. The fair value of 
these financial assets is adjusted for transaction costs that are directly 
attributable to the acquisition or issue of the asset. Subsequent to 
initial recognition, loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method.
Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial 
assets either designated by management as available for sale or not 
falling into any other category. Financial assets so categorised include 
equity instruments which do not have a quoted price in an active 
market and hence are measured at cost. 
None of the Group’s material financial assets fall into the held to 
maturity category, which is defined as non-derivative financial assets 
with fixed maturity dates that the Group intends to hold to maturity.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are categorised on initial recognition as held for 
trading under IAS 39 and are held at fair value through profit or loss, 
or other liabilities, which are held at amortised cost. All financial 
liabilities are classified as current or non-current liabilities dependent 
upon the maturity date of the instruments. 
Derivative financial instruments are categorised as held for trading 
unless they are designated as hedges. 
The fair value of financial liabilities held at cost (not at fair value 
through profit or loss) is adjusted for transaction costs that are 
directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the liability. Financial 
liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried  
at fair value. Financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss 
are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are stated at their amortised cost, reduced 
by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. 
Allowances for irrecoverable amounts are made when there is 
evidence that the Group may not be able to collect the amount due. 
All trade receivables which are more than six months overdue are 
provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined 
by reference to past default experience. Amounts which are less than 
six months overdue are provided where recovery of the balance due 
is considered to be doubtful. 
The impairment recorded is the difference between the carrying value 
of the receivables and the present value of the estimated future cash 
flows. Any impairment required is recorded in the income statement  
in administrative expenses. The balance may be written off in full 
generally where receivables are in excess of 12 months old. At that 
time, any amounts previously provided for impairment are released. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and bank deposits 
with an original maturity of three months or less. Bank overdrafts that 
are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s 
cash management are included as a component of cash and cash 
equivalents for the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement. 
Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
amount of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Borrowing 
costs, net of amounts capitalised, including premiums payable on 
settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are charged to the 
income statement and are added to the carrying amount of the 
instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in 
which they arise. Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to 
relevant property, plant and equipment are capitalised as part of the 
cost of that asset.
Trade payables
Trade payables do not carry any interest and are stated at their 
nominal value.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
As explained in note 25, the Group’s activities expose it to the 
financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and 
interest rates. The Group uses foreign exchange contracts and 
interest rate swap contracts to reduce these exposures and does not 
use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Other 
derivative financial instruments may be used from time to time to 
hedge other exposures such as inflation risks. 
85 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com The Group has documented its risk management objectives and 
strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions, and utilises 
hedge accounting principles in relation to interest rate swaps.  
These are designated as cash flow hedges which mitigate the Group’s 
exposure to changes in interest rates arising on floating rate debt. 
From time to time, the Group may also use interest rate swaps  
to manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed rate 
borrowings; however there are no such contracts outstanding  
at the present time. 
Foreign exchange contracts entered into to mitigate foreign exchange 
impacts of trading in non-functional currencies, and inflation swaps 
entered into to mitigate inflation risks, are not accounted for using 
hedge accounting. Foreign currency borrowings are used to hedge  
the effects of changes in the Group’s net investment in foreign 
operations. These borrowings either provide a natural economic 
hedge through the use of intercompany debt or are designated as fair 
value hedges of the foreign currency risk attributable to the foreign 
equity investment and are treated as net investment hedges. 
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value  
on the date the contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured at their fair value. The method of recognising the 
resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is 
designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the  
item being hedged.
Where hedge accounting is applied, the relationship between 
hedging instruments and hedged items is documented at the 
inception of the transaction. The Group also documents its 
assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis,  
of whether the derivatives used in hedging transactions are highly 
effective in offsetting changes in cash flows (or fair values if 
appropriate) of hedged items.
Where interest rate swaps are designated and qualify as cash flow 
hedges, the effective portion of changes in fair value is recognised  
in OCI through the hedge reserve. The gain or loss relating to  
the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income 
statement. Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to finance 
income or finance costs in the income statement in the periods 
when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
When a cash flow hedging derivative expires or is sold, or when  
a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any 
cumulative gain or loss existing in the hedge reserve in equity  
at that time remains in equity and is recognised in the income 
statement when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in 
the income statement. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected 
to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in the hedge 
reserve in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement 
in that period.
Where net investment hedging applies, the exchange differences 
arising on the borrowings designated as fair value hedges are 
recognised in OCI and through profit and loss on disposal of the 
foreign operation. 
The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a current asset  
or liability except when the remaining maturity of the hedged item  
is more than 12 months. 
Where hedge accounting is not applied, the movements in fair value 
of the derivative instruments are included in the income statement as 
part of operating profit. The fair value of such derivatives is classified 
as a current or non-current asset or liability dependent upon the 
expected realisation of the assets or settlement of the liabilities. 
Provisions
A provision is required when the Group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable 
that settlement will be required and where the amount can be 
reliably measured. No provision is recognised where the existence  
of an obligation is possible but will only be confirmed by uncertain 
future events.
Provisions for warranty costs are recognised at the date of sale  
of the relevant products, at management’s best estimates of the 
expenditure required to settle the Group’s liabilities, based on past 
experience and industry averages for defective products. 
Contract loss provisions are recognised for onerous contracts when 
the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract 
are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under 
the contract. 
Aircraft maintenance provisions are established in respect of significant 
periodic maintenance costs, where maintenance activity is required  
on leased operational aircraft or engines on a cycle greater than  
12 months. Costs are charged to the income statement on the basis of 
utilisation of the aircraft and are credited to the provision. The provision 
is then utilised by absorbing the actual costs incurred in carrying out the 
maintenance activity. Maintenance carried out on a cycle of 12 months 
or less is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Provisions also arise in connection with leased aircraft, where contracts 
contain specific conditions regarding the configuration of the aircraft 
on its return to the lessor at the end of the lease. The estimated cost 
associated with fulfilling these requirements is charged to the income 
statement on an aircraft utilisation basis. The provision is utilised on 
actual return of the aircraft or on incurring the expenditure required  
to return the aircraft to the state of maintenance required by the lease 
before return of the aircraft to the lessor.
Provisions for claims made against the Group and commitments made 
under performance guarantees are recognised at management’s best 
estimates of the expenditure required to settle the Group’s liabilities. 
Provisions are discounted at an appropriate risk-free rate when the 
impact is material.
86 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Pensions
The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined 
contribution schemes. 
For defined benefit schemes, current service costs and costs related  
to the administration of the schemes are charged to operating profit. 
Gains and losses on settlements and curtailments arising on a business 
divestment are included in profit on divestment. Past service costs are 
recognised immediately in the income statement. The interest on net 
assets or liabilities is shown within finance income and costs. Actuarial 
remeasurements are recognised immediately in OCI.
Defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the scheme 
held separately from those of the Group, in separate trustee 
administered funds. Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value 
and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected 
unit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate  
of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency  
and term to the scheme liabilities. The actuarial valuations are 
obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet 
date. The resulting net defined benefit asset or liability is presented 
separately on the face of the balance sheet.
For defined contribution schemes, the amounts charged to the income 
statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement 
benefits are the contributions payable in the year. Differences between 
contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are 
recorded as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Share capital
Ordinary share capital is classified as equity. Financial liabilities and 
equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the 
contractual arrangements entered into. An equity instrument is any 
contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group 
after deducting all of its liabilities. 
Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on 
a specific date or at the option of the preference shareholders or if 
dividend payments are not discretionary. Dividends on preference 
share capital classified as liabilities are recognised in the income 
statement as finance costs.
Treasury shares
When ordinary share capital recognised as equity is acquired by the 
Company, the shares are held as treasury shares. The consideration 
paid, including commissions and taxes, is deducted from retained 
earnings and total equity. The proceeds of any treasury shares 
subsequently sold or re-issued, net of commission and taxes, are 
recognised as an increase in retained earnings and total equity.
Share based payments
For grants made under the Group’s equity settled share based 
payment schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value of options 
awarded as at the time of grant are charged to the income statement 
over the relevant vesting periods, taking into account the Directors’ 
best estimate of the number of awards expected to vest. The Group 
reviews and updates the vesting estimate, which includes progress 
against non-market related performance conditions, at each balance 
sheet date. 
The valuation methodology for all schemes is based on the 
Black-Scholes model, modified where required to allow for the 
impact of market related performance criteria and taking into 
account all non-vesting conditions.
 
Future accounting developments
A number of new standards, amendments to existing standards and 
interpretations have been published that are mandatory for future 
accounting periods. Those endorsed by the EU for use from 
1 January 2014 are as follows:
•	 IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements
•	 IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements
•	 IFRS 12, Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities
•	 IAS 27 (revised 2011), Separate Financial Statements
•	 IAS 28 (revised 2011), Associates and Joint Ventures
•	 Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12: Transitional 
Guidance
•	 Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27: Investment Entities
•	 Amendment to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation  
on Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
•	 Amendments to IAS 36, Recoverable Amount Disclosures  
for Non-financial Assets 
•	 Amendments to IAS 39, Novation of Derivatives and 
continuation of Hedge Accounting 
•	 IFRIC 21, Levies (not endorsed at 31 December 2013)
None of these have been adopted early by the Group and none  
are expected to have an impact on the Group’s financial reporting.
There are also a number of new standards and amendments to 
existing standards including Annual Improvements which, once 
endorsed by the EU, will be effective from 1 January 2015. IFRS 9, 
Financial Instruments will be adopted once endorsed for use by the 
EU. Management will assess the impact of these changes on the 
future reporting of the Group’s operations at the appropriate time. 
87 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com The impacts on the 2012 financial statements can be summarised as follows:
£m As reported Adjustment As restated
Consolidated Income Statement
Administrative expenses (see note below) (263.8) (1.1) (264.9)
Operating profit (see note below) 238.6 (1.1) 237.5
Finance income – adjustment for expected return on pension scheme assets 33.4 (26.6) 6.8
Finance costs – adjustment for interest on pension scheme liabilities (66.0) 25.7 (40.3)
Profit before taxation 206.0 (2.0) 204.0
Taxation (32.6) 0.4 (32.2)
Profit after taxation 173.4 (1.6) 171.8
Profit attributable to owners of the parent 173.3 (1.6) 171.7
Earnings per Ordinary Share
Basic 16.13p (0.15p) 15.98p
Diluted 16.08p (0.15p) 15.93p
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Profit after taxation 173.4 (1.6) 171.8
Remeasurements of defined benefit retirement benefit obligations (15.7) 2.0 (13.7)
Tax effects (0.8) (0.4) (1.2)
Total comprehensive income 136.5 – 136.5
Underlying measures
Trading profit (adjustment allocated to Head Office in segment information) 333.1 (1.1) 332.0
Net underlying finance costs (30.9) (0.9) (31.8)
Underlying profit before taxation 302.2 (2.0) 300.2
Taxation charge on underlying profit (58.9) 0.4 (58.5)
Underlying profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent 243.2 (1.6) 241.6
Underlying EPS 22.63p (0.15p) 22.48p
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Operating profit 238.6 (1.1) 237.5
Pension contributions in excess of service cost and administration cost (15.4) 1.1 (14.3)
Net cash from operating activities 288.2 – 288.2
£2.9m reported in the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts on a separate line in the Income Statement ‘Business divestments and similar 
income’ has been combined into administrative expenses, with a consequential change to operating profit. 
2. Prior year restatement 
Changes to IAS 19, Employee Benefits have resulted in some  
changes to the accounting for pension schemes. The implications  
of these changes are explained in this note. 
The amendment to IAS 19 replaced an interest charge on pension 
liabilities and a credit for the expected return on investments held 
during the year with a single interest charge on net liabilities. The 
amendment was required to be applied retrospectively, which means 
that the numbers reported in 2012 have been updated in these 
financial statements as if these new rules were in place last year.  
As investments are generally expected to provide returns that  
are greater than a typical interest rate this change had the effect  
of increasing the net interest cost for 2012 by £0.9m.
In addition, administrative costs incurred by the Group’s pension 
schemes, which amounted to £1.1m in 2012, are now charged to 
administrative expenses within the Consolidated Income Statement. 
These were previously dealt with as part of the finance cost related 
to pension schemes. 
These changes do not impact the valuation of the assets or liabilities 
of the scheme. Actuarial losses, accounted for within OCI, are 
restated to maintain the net liabilities as previously reported. 
These adjustments are tax effected and the change in profit after 
taxation impacts on Earnings per Share and underlying measures. 
The Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated 
Cash Flow Statement and various notes to the financial statements 
are also affected.
88 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 3. Underlying measures 
Underlying measures, defined in note 1 on page 81, are derived from operating profit as set out below:
£m Note 2013
2012  
(as restated)
Operating profit 158.8 237.5
Business restructuring – Excellence in Delivery 56.1 37.9
Movements in non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments (2.2) (11.1)
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 103.9 68.9
Impairment of goodwill 11 63.0 –
Revaluation gain arising on equity interests in FBH (2012: Thrane & Thrane) 29 (62.1) (1.0)
Other business acquisition and divestment related items
Net profit on divestment of emergency locator beacons business – (7.8)
Additional profit on other divestments in prior years (2.1) (7.4)
Adjustments to businesses held for sale 8.3 13.3
Release of contingent consideration 20 (11.9) (8.7)
Other M&A related costs 5.8 10.4
Trading profit 317.6 332.0
Net underlying finance costs (29.6) (31.8)
Underlying profit before taxation 288.0 300.2
Taxation charge on underlying profit (57.0) (58.5)
Non-controlling interests (0.2) (0.1)
Underlying profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent 230.8 241.6
Underlying basic EPS 21.60p 22.48p
Underlying diluted EPS 21.51p 22.42p
Underlying administrative expenses, which exclude the reconciling items in the table above, amounted to £169.6m (2012: £170.4m as restated), 
representing 9.5% (2012: 9.7%) of revenue.
Business restructuring costs relate to the restructuring of the Group’s portfolio under its EiD programme which are incremental to normal 
operations. These relate exclusively to the ongoing design and implementation of Standard Operating Frameworks within the principal 
locations, initial development costs of a new ERP computer system, together with site consolidation, consequential asset write downs and 
workforce reduction costs arising from additional streamlining under the two year extension of the programme, which continues into 2015. 
As disclosed in note 29, on 15 July 2013 an agreement was reached to acquire the 50% shareholding that the Group did not already own in 
FBH. The proceeds of the deemed disposal of the 50% interest previously held were valued at £74.2m which generated the revaluation gain 
arising on equity interests in FBH of £62.1m.
Net cash from operating activities is reconciled to free cash flow as follows: 
£m 2013 2012
Net cash from operating activities per cash flow statement 210.6 288.2
Dividends received from joint ventures 3.7 7.5
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (58.0) (48.2)
Purchase of intangible assets (11.0) (13.8)
Capitalised expenditure on intangible assets – (1.4)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 8.0 1.0
M&A costs paid 1.7 7.8
Free cash flow 155.0 241.1
Free cash flow before Excellence in Delivery restructuring costs 205.9 272.9
89 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com 4. Revenue and segmental information
Revenue
Revenue comprises income from the sale of goods and services during the year and can be analysed as follows:
£m 2013 2012
Revenue from sale of goods 1,424.8 1,423.1
Revenue from services 364.9 326.3
1,789.7 1,749.4
Major customers
Revenue of £130.8m (2012: £162.9m) is directly attributable to US Government departments and agencies, although this is widely spread across 
different agencies and customers. This accounts for 7.3% of total revenue (2012: 9.3%) and originates in all segments other than Cobham 
Aviation Services. In addition, a number of customers also sell our products on to various US Government departments and agencies.
Operating segments
Revenue Trading profit Segment net assets
£m 2013 2012 2013
2012 
(as restated) 2013 2012
Aerospace and Security 743.6 697.3 132.4 149.1 795.5 794.8
Defence Systems 309.0 322.9 46.5 44.9 335.2 377.1
Mission Systems 357.7 372.6 74.0 81.3 294.9 251.9
Aviation Services 365.2 326.6 48.0 38.0 322.9 157.0
Head office, other activities and elimination of inter-segment items (6.7) (6.5) 14.2 13.8 20.7 76.5
Core Group 1,768.8 1,712.9 315.1 327.1 1,769.2 1,657.3
Non-core businesses 20.9 36.5 2.5 4.9 (3.1) (10.5)
Total Group 1,789.7 1,749.4 317.6 332.0 1,766.1 1,646.8
Interests in joint ventures and associates 3.1 15.8
Unallocated assets (725.0) (608.2)
Total net assets 1,044.2 1,054.4
Head office results (net of recoveries) are not included within the operating segments as described above. Non-core businesses are those 
which were identified for divestment in 2011. 
The Group’s share of the post-tax results of joint ventures and associates arises in Aviation Services (£3.1m, 2012: £7.0m) and Aerospace  
and Security (£nil, 2012: £0.4m).
Trading profit is reconciled to profit before taxation as follows:
£m Note 2013
2012
(as restated)
Trading profit 317.6 332.0
Business restructuring – Excellence in Delivery 3 (56.1) (37.9)
Movements in non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 23 2.2 11.1
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations (103.9) (68.9)
Impairment of goodwill 10 (63.0) –
Revaluation gain arising on equity interests in FBH (2012: Thrane & Thrane) 29 62.1 1.0
Other business acquisition and divestment related items (0.1) 0.2
Net finance costs 6 (32.2) (33.5)
Profit before taxation 126.6 204.0
90 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Depreciation of property, plant and equipment, investment properties and amortisation of internally generated intangibles are included in the 
calculation of trading profit and can be analysed by segment as follows:
£m 2013 2012
Aerospace and Security 17.3 14.7
Defence Systems 13.5 14.8
Mission Systems 6.4 6.5
Aviation Services 30.6 23.6
Core Group 67.8 59.6
Non-core businesses 0.4 0.7
Total Group 68.2 60.3
Details of employees analysed by operating segment can be found in note 5. 
Geographical information
Revenue
Revenue from external customers analysed by their geographical location, irrespective of the origin of the goods and services, is shown 
below. Revenue from customers located in individual countries within the EU (except the UK) and the rest of the world is not considered  
to be individually material. 
£m UK USA Australia
Other EU 
countries Asia
Rest of the 
world Total
Year to 31 December 2013 235.2 812.5 249.8 277.4 132.8 82.0 1,789.7
Year to 31 December 2012 172.3 885.6 241.4 292.5 99.3 58.3 1,749.4
Non-current assets
Non-current assets are analysed by the physical location of the assets and exclude financial instruments and deferred tax assets. 
£m UK USA Denmark
Other EU 
countries Australia
Rest of the 
world Total
At 31 December 2013 402.4 588.9 272.6 101.2 90.5 70.4 1,526.0
At 31 December 2012 212.2 666.2 295.6 106.0 111.2 42.2 1,433.4
5. Operating costs
Operating costs include materials costs of £592.7m (2012: £575.4m) within cost of sales in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Company funded research and development
£m 2013 2012
Company funded research and development 88.0 75.4
Employment costs
The aggregate employment costs of Group employees are as follows: 
£m Note 2013 2012
Wages and salaries 497.0 467.2
Social security costs 41.1 39.0
Pension costs 24 29.6 25.7
Share based payments 28 (1.7) 6.8
566.0 538.7
91 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com The average number of employees during the year, analysed by segment, is as follows:
2013 2012
Aerospace and Security 4,140 4,019
Defence Systems 2,206 2,329
Mission Systems 1,500 1,473
Aviation Services 1,931 1,815
Head office and other activities 184 131
Core Group 9,961 9,767
Non-core businesses 129 225
Total Group 10,090 9,992
Compensation of key management personnel
The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management during the year was as follows:
£m 2013 2012
Remuneration 6.2 5.8
Post-employment benefits 0.7 0.6
Share based payments (0.5) 3.8
6.4 10.2
Audit fees
During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Company’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its associates,  
as follows:
£m 2013 2012
Annual audit of the Parent Company and Group Financial Statements 1.0 1.1
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 1.1 0.9
Total fees payable for audit services 2.1 2.0
Fees payable for other services
Tax compliance services 0.3 0.2
Other tax advisory services 1.2 0.8
Other audit related assurance services 0.2 0.1
Total fees payable for other services 1.7 1.1
Total fees payable to the auditors 3.8 3.1
In addition to the amounts shown above, the auditors received fees of £45,750 in 2012 for the audit of the Group’s pension schemes. 
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 44 to 47 and includes an 
explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
92 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 6. Finance income and costs
£m Note 2013
2012  
(as restated)
Finance income
Bank interest 3.3 4.0
Other finance income 2.0 2.8
Total finance income 5.3 6.8
Finance costs
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans (29.6) (32.1)
Interest on net pension scheme liabilities 24 (2.8) (2.9)
Other finance expense (5.1) (5.3)
Total finance costs (37.5) (40.3)
Net finance costs excluding pension schemes (29.4) (30.6)
Net finance costs arising from pension schemes (2.8) (2.9)
Net finance costs (32.2) (33.5)
Other finance expense above includes £1.5m (2012: £2.8m) in relation to interest rate swaps (previously designated as cash flow hedges)  
which were terminated during 2009 and have been amortised over the life of the original contracts to August 2013. It also includes 
£2.6m (2012: £1.7m) relating to the unwinding of acquisition related discounting, excluded from underlying profit in note 3.
7. Income tax expense
£m Note 2013
2012  
(as restated)
Current tax
Charge for the year 44.1 50.0
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years (14.7) (2.6)
Current tax 29.4 47.4
Deferred tax
Credit for the year (16.5) (0.5)
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 0.2 (14.7)
Impact of change in tax rates (1.0) –
Deferred tax 22 (17.3) (15.2)
Total tax charge for the year 12.1 32.2
Income tax is calculated on the estimated assessable profit for the year at the rates prevailing in the relevant tax jurisdiction. The total tax 
charge for the year includes £7.7m (2012: £6.8m) for the UK. 
93 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com The total charge for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows:
£m 2013
2012  
(as restated)
Profit before tax 126.6 204.0
Tax thereon at the UK income tax rate of 23.25% (2012: 24.5%) 29.4 50.0
Tax effect of share of results of joint ventures and associates (0.7) (1.8)
Effect of differences in overseas taxation rates 1.0 6.7
Expenditure qualifying for additional R&D tax relief (3.7) (5.7)
Revaluation gain on FBH (14.4) –
Goodwill impairment 14.6 –
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years (14.5) (17.3)
Impact of other items 0.4 0.3
Total tax charge for the year 12.1 32.2
In addition to the tax expense charged to the income statement, the following charges/(credits) have been included in OCI and equity: 
£m 2013
2012  
(as restated)
Included in OCI
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligations (4.1) (1.8)
Actuarial loss on other retirement benefit obligations – (0.2)
(4.1) (2.0)
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss
Movements in hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 1.2 3.2
Included in equity
Share based payments 2.6 0.5
The rate of UK corporation tax will reduce from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014 and to 20% from 1 April 2015. 
8. Dividends
£m 2013 2012
Final dividend of 6.4 pence per share for 2012 (2011: 6.2 pence) 68.5 66.7
Interim dividend of 2.64 pence per share for 2013 (2012: 2.4 pence)  28.1 25.8
Total dividend authorised and paid during the year 96.6 92.5
In addition to the above, the Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013 of 7.04 pence 
per share at an estimated total cost of £75.2m. This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not 
been included as a liability in these financial statements. If authorised, it will be paid on 30 May 2014 to shareholders who are on the register 
of members as at 2 May 2014. The total dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013 will therefore be 9.68 pence per 
share (2012: 8.8 pence). The total amount payable in respect of 2013 will be £103.3m. 
94 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 9. Earnings per Ordinary Share
2013 2012
Earnings  
£m
Weighted 
average 
number of 
shares 
million
Per share 
amount 
pence
Earnings  
(as restated) 
£m
Weighted 
average 
number of 
shares 
million
Per share 
amount  
(as restated) 
pence
Basic earnings per share (EPS)
Earnings attributable to owners of the parent 114.3 1,068.7 10.70 171.7 1,074.7 15.98
Effect of dilutive securities 4.3 3.0
Diluted EPS 114.3 1,073.0 10.65 171.7 1,077.7 15.93
10. Cash and cash equivalents and net debt
Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents and net debt
£m 2013 2012
Cash and cash equivalents as shown in Cash Flow Statement 199.0 250.2
Bank overdrafts 1.7 14.0
Cash and cash equivalents per Balance Sheet 200.7 264.2
Borrowings – current liabilities (344.5) (307.3)
Borrowings – non-current liabilities (309.6) (316.8)
Net debt at 31 December (453.4) (359.9)
Details of the offsetting of overdrafts with cash and cash equivalents and other financial instruments can be found in note 16. 
Reconciliation of movements in net debt
£m 2013 2012
Net debt at 1 January (359.9) (232.5)
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents in the year per Cash Flow Statement (36.8) (73.4)
New borrowings (67.0) (184.5)
Repayment of borrowings 7.7 113.1
Exchange movements 2.6 17.4
Net debt at 31 December (453.4) (359.9)
95 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com 11. Intangible assets
£m Goodwill
Customer 
relationships
Technology 
based assets
Development 
costs Other Total
Cost
At 1 January 2012 678.5 237.8 138.1 3.4 52.9 1,110.7
Additions – purchased – – – – 13.8 13.8
Additions – internally generated – – – 1.4 – 1.4
Recognised on business combinations 150.5 81.9 55.3 – 3.3 291.0
Business divestments (22.5) – (0.4) – (0.2) (23.1)
Disposals and derecognitions – (7.6) (15.3) – (23.3) (46.2)
Foreign exchange adjustments (17.4) (9.8) (4.5) (0.1) (1.7) (33.5)
Reclassifications – – – – 0.7 0.7
At 1 January 2013 789.1 302.3 173.2 4.7 45.5 1,314.8
Additions – purchased – – – – 11.0 11.0
Recognised on business combinations 86.9 59.2 25.4 – 46.1 217.6
Disposals and derecognitions – (60.9) (34.3) (2.7) (5.9) (103.8)
Foreign exchange adjustments (1.5) 2.3 2.3 0.1 (0.4) 2.8
Reclassifications – – – – 1.0 1.0
At 31 December 2013 874.5 302.9 166.6 2.1 97.3 1,443.4
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2012 – 92.1 61.4 2.1 37.5 193.1
Charge for the year – 36.0 27.9 0.5 9.3 73.7
Eliminated on business divestments – – (0.2) – (0.2) (0.4)
Disposals and derecognitions – (7.6) (15.3) – (23.1) (46.0)
Foreign exchange adjustments – (4.3) (2.1) (0.1) (1.2) (7.7)
At 1 January 2013 – 116.2 71.7 2.5 22.3 212.7
Amortisation charge for the year – 53.0 39.9 1.2 14.8 108.9
Impairment provision 63.0 – – – – 63.0
Disposals and derecognitions – (60.9) (34.3) (2.7) (5.9) (103.8)
Foreign exchange adjustments – (0.1) 0.4 0.1 (0.5) (0.1)
Reclassifications – – – – 0.5 0.5
At 31 December 2013 63.0 108.2 77.7 1.1 31.2 281.2
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2013 811.5 194.7 88.9 1.0 66.1 1,162.2
At 31 December 2012 789.1 186.1 101.5 2.2 23.2 1,102.1
At 1 January 2012 678.5 145.7 76.7 1.3 15.4 917.6
Amortisation charged during the year relating to intangible assets recognised on business combinations was £103.9m (2012: £68.9m).  
This has been excluded from underlying profit as shown in note 3. All amortisation charges are included within administrative expenses  
in the Consolidated Income Statement. 
Business combinations during the year represent the acquisition of Axell Wireless and the 50% of the shares of FB Heliservices Limited,  
FB Leasing Limited and FBS Limited (together FBH) not already owned by Cobham. Axell Wireless forms part of the Antenna Systems strategic 
business unit (SBU) and FBH operates within the Aviation Services SBU. Further details can be found in note 29. 
96 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Customer relationships represents customer lists, customer contracts and the associated benefits of customer relationships recognised on 
acquisition. Technology based assets represent trade secrets and processes, patented and unpatented technology and know-how recognised 
on acquisition, together with purchased technology assets. Other intangible assets represent purchased and acquired patents, licences and 
trademarks, software rights and licences and the order backlog of acquired businesses at the date of acquisition. Order backlog is 
derecognised when it has been fully amortised.
Goodwill and annual impairment review
Goodwill represents the premium paid in anticipation of future economic benefits from assets that are not capable of being separately 
identified and separately recognised, such as the value of the workforce, and is the only indefinite life intangible asset held by the Group. 
The Group reviews goodwill for potential impairment of each cash generating unit (CGU) annually, or more frequently if there are indications 
that goodwill might be impaired. As a result of the site integrations and other EiD activity, CGUs are typically considered to be SBUs.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations unless specific conditions at a CGU dictate otherwise. 
Businesses held for sale are assessed for impairment using expected net proceeds of divestment.
Following an impairment review of the Cobham Tactical Communications and Surveillance SBU (TC&S), part of the Aerospace and Security 
segment, an impairment loss of £63.0m has been recognised. Elements of the TC&S business have an exposure to short cycle orders from US 
military and other US government agencies, which were impacted significantly by budget spending constraints, particularly in the second half 
of 2013. While a recovery in activity is expected in the medium term it is considered appropriate to recognise an impairment of the carrying 
value in light of the impact of the current situation on the value in use calculation. A discount rate of 9.0% (2012: 9.3%) was used in the value  
in use calculation. The remaining goodwill related to this SBU is £43.3m.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and operating cash projections 
during the period for which management have detailed plans. Management estimate discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current 
market assessments of the Group’s time value of money and the risks specific to the CGU being measured. 
As part of its annual strategic planning process, the Group prepares cash flow forecasts for the following five years at CGU level. These are 
approved by management. These forecasts take into account the current and expected economic environment including factors such as  
the softening of the US defence market in the near term. The growth rate assumed after this five year period is based on long term GDP 
projections of the primary market for the CGU. The long term projections used are in the range 2.0% to 2.5%. The growth rates assume that 
demand for the Group’s products in the US and in the UK remains broadly in line with the underlying economic environment in the long term 
future. Taking into account the expectation of future market conditions, management believe that the evolution of selling prices and direct 
costs will reflect past practices. 
The pre-tax rates used to discount the forecast cash flows are within the range 8.1% to 10.7% (2012: 8.8% to 10.9%), having considered  
the country and currency risks in the principal territories in which the Group operates. 
If the goodwill allocated to a CGU represents more than 10% of the Group’s total goodwill carrying value, then the CGU is considered  
to be individually significant. These CGUs are as follows: 
CGU Operating segment
Goodwill carrying value  
£m
Headroom 
£m
Pre-tax discount 
rate
Projected GDP 
growth rate
Defence Electronics Defence Systems 215 153 9.5% 2.5%
SATCOM Aerospace and Security 205 398 9.0% 2.1%
Antenna Systems Aerospace and Security 122 699 9.4% 2.2%
Life Support Mission Systems 85 418 9.5% 2.5%
Sensitivity analysis has been performed on these CGUs and no impairment losses would arise if the discount rate increased by 20%,  
if the growth rate was zero or if cash flows reduced by 20%. The Directors have not identified any other likely changes in other significant 
assumptions that would cause the carrying value of recognised goodwill to exceed its recoverable amount.
97 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com 12. Property, plant and equipment
Land and buildings Plant and 
machinery 
(including aircraft 
& vehicles)
Fixtures,  
fittings, tools  
and equipment
Payments on 
account and  
assets under 
construction Total £m Freehold Long leases Short leases
Cost
At 1 January 2012 84.9 36.4 10.2 565.9 79.6 8.8 785.8
Additions 0.1 1.9 0.5 23.5 5.3 16.3 47.6
Acquired with business combinations 2.9 – – 2.6 0.9 – 6.4
Business divestments (1.4) – – (3.1) (0.5) – (5.0)
Disposals (0.7) (0.5) (0.3) (14.9) (1.2) – (17.6)
Foreign exchange adjustments (2.3) (0.6) (0.4) (13.5) (2.3) (0.3) (19.4)
Reclassifications 7.7 (0.2) – 2.2 4.7 (13.8) 0.6
At 1 January 2013 91.2 37.0 10.0 562.7 86.5 11.0 798.4
Additions 2.7 2.0 0.1 33.4 4.4 18.0 60.6
Acquired with business combinations – – – 74.8 2.4 1.6 78.8
Reclassified as held for sale (2.1) – – – – – (2.1)
Disposals (2.8) (7.4) (3.7) (31.3) (6.6) – (51.8)
Foreign exchange adjustments (2.9) (0.2) – (36.3) (3.2) (0.3) (42.9)
Reclassifications 2.3 0.7 0.2 2.5 4.2 (10.9) (1.0)
At 31 December 2013 88.4 32.1 6.6 605.8 87.7 19.4 840.0
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2012 25.5 13.8 6.2 364.9 56.8 – 467.2
Depreciation charge for the year 3.7 2.6 1.2 40.2 7.5 – 55.2
Eliminated on business divestments (0.4) – – (2.6) (0.4) – (3.4)
Eliminated on disposals (0.6) – (0.2) (13.3) (0.9) – (15.0)
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.8) (0.5) (0.2) (7.8) (1.7) – (11.0)
Reclassifications – (0.2) – – 0.8 – 0.6
At 1 January 2013 27.4 15.7 7.0 381.4 62.1 – 493.6
Depreciation charge for the year 4.5 2.5 1.2 45.8 8.8 – 62.8
Eliminated on disposals (1.3) (3.6) (2.9) (27.0) (5.8) – (40.6)
Reclassified as held for sale (1.5) – – – – – (1.5)
Foreign exchange adjustments (1.1) (0.1) (0.1) (20.9) (2.4) – (24.6)
Reclassifications – – 0.1 (1.8) 1.2 – (0.5)
At 31 December 2013 28.0 14.5 5.3 377.5 63.9 – 489.2
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2013 60.4 17.6 1.3 228.3 23.8 19.4 350.8
At 31 December 2012 63.8 21.3 3.0 181.3 24.4 11.0 304.8
At 1 January 2012 59.4 22.6 4.0 201.0 22.8 8.8 318.6
98 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 13. Investment properties
£m 2013 2012
Carrying amount at 1 January 10.7 11.2
Disposals (0.3) –
Depreciation (0.4) (0.3)
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.1) (0.2)
Carrying amount at 31 December 9.9 10.7
The total fair value of the Group’s investment properties has been assessed to be £14.2m (2012: £18.0m). This includes £7.8m for UK properties 
based on estimated market prices provided by external valuers, Vail Williams LLP as at 31 December 2013, and £6.4m for the US property, 
which is based on Directors’ estimates using current market data. 
Property rental income earned by the Group from its investment properties amounted to £1.9m (2012: £1.8m), which is net of all direct costs 
associated with the leasing of the property except depreciation. The buildings are leased to commercial users on operating leases with terms 
of between 5 and 25 years, commencing between 1998 and 2010. 
14. Investments in joint ventures and associates
The Group has the following interests in joint ventures and associates: 
Name
Percentage  
shareholding
Nature of  
relationship Reporting segment
Country of incorporation  
or registration
Aviation Défense Service SA 45% Joint venture Aviation Services France
Northrop Grumman Cobham Intercoms LLC 50% Joint venture Aerospace and Security USA
Philtech Co., Ltd 30% Associate Aerospace and Security South Korea
The Company’s joint ventures and associates all have share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares, which are indirectly held, and the 
country of incorporation or registration is also their principal place of operation. Details of the acquisition of FB Heliservices Limited, FBS 
Limited and FB Leasing Limited, which were previously held as joint ventures, are given in note 29. The 45% investment in Aviation Défense 
Service SA is treated as a joint venture because the governance structure means that the Group has joint control with its partner.
The share of the balance sheets and income statements of the joint ventures, included in the consolidated financial statements, is as follows:
£m 2013 2012
Current assets 2.1 13.1
Non-current assets 4.1 44.4
Current liabilities (2.8) (13.5)
Non-current liabilities (0.3) (28.2)
Net assets 3.1 15.8
Income 25.2 49.6
Expenses (20.4) (39.6)
The assets and results of the associated undertaking are not separately disclosed on the basis of materiality. The address of the principal place 
of business of Philtech Co., Ltd is Sujeong-gu, Seonngnam-si, Gyeonggido, South Korea. 
15. Inventories
£m 2013 2012
Raw materials and consumables 139.0 128.1
Work in progress 187.0 185.8
Finished goods and goods for resale 36.8 34.2
Allowance for obsolescence (46.9) (41.7)
315.9 306.4
99 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com During the year £15.2m (2012: £14.0m) was provided, £6.1m (2012: £5.0m) was utilised and £6.4m (2012: £9.4m) of the allowance for 
obsolescence was reversed. 
This allowance is reviewed by management on a regular basis and further amounts are provided or released as considered necessary.  
The amounts are generally determined based on factors which include ageing and known demand. Subsequent events may give rise  
to these estimates being revised and, consequently, to the reversal of amounts previously provided. 
Inventory will be realised within the normal operating cycle of the businesses. Within the Mission Systems segment, inventory relating  
to long term contracts expected to be realised after more than 12 months amounts to £39.0m (2012: £34.6m).
16. Financial instruments
The Group’s financial assets and liabilities can be categorised as follows: 
£m Note
Loans and 
receivables
Fair value 
through profit 
or loss
Amortised 
cost
Derivatives 
used for 
hedging 
Total carrying 
amount Fair value
Financial assets 
Trade receivables 17 238.3 – – – 238.3 238.3
Other receivables 17 76.9 – – – 76.9 76.9
Cash and cash equivalents 10 200.7 – – – 200.7 200.7
Derivative contracts (not hedge accounted) 23 – 11.7 – – 11.7 11.7
Other financial assets – – 6.1 – 6.1 6.1
Financial liabilities
Borrowings 19 – – (654.1) – (654.1) (687.5)
Trade payables 20 – – (117.1) – (117.1) (117.1)
Accruals – – (99.6) – (99.6) (99.6)
Contingent consideration 20 – (27.4) – – (27.4) (27.4)
Other financial liabilities 20 – – (47.8) – (47.8) (47.8)
Derivative contracts (not hedge accounted) 23 – (8.8) – – (8.8) (8.8)
Hedging instruments
Liabilities 23 – – – (3.2) (3.2) (3.2)
Net financial liabilities at 31 December 2013 (424.3) (457.7)
Financial assets
Trade receivables 17 225.2 – – – 225.2 225.2
Other receivables 17 82.3 – – – 82.3 82.3
Cash and cash equivalents 10 264.2 – – – 264.2 264.2
Derivative contracts (not hedge accounted) 23 – 7.1 – – 7.1 7.1
Financial liabilities
Borrowings 19 – – (624.1) – (624.1) (675.4)
Trade payables 20 – – (105.1) – (105.1) (105.1)
Accruals – – (109.9) – (109.9) (109.9)
Contingent consideration 20 – (16.8) – – (16.8) (16.8)
Other financial liabilities 20 – – (41.8) – (41.8) (41.8)
Derivative contracts (not hedge accounted) 23 – (8.6) – – (8.6) (8.6)
Hedging instruments
Liabilities 23 – – – (8.3) (8.3) (8.3)
Net financial liabilities at 31 December 2012 (335.8) (387.1)
Borrowings are held at amortised cost which equates to fair value except for the Group’s fixed rate senior notes. At 31 December 2013 the fair 
value of those notes was £250.1m (31 December 2012: £272.2m) compared to their book value of £216.7m (31 December 2012: £220.9m). The  
fair value of the senior notes and derivative financial instruments have been determined by reference to observable market prices and rates.
100 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Cash and cash equivalents include term deposits in Australia equivalent to £6.4m in total (2012: £7.5m). These term deposits are held primarily 
to satisfy a requirement to provide security over the residual value of leased assets under an agreement which expires in 2020 but can be 
realised within three months under the terms of the agreements. 
Other financial assets relate to Cobham plc’s investments in connection with the FSTA project which are held at cost, totalling £6.1m (2012: 
£44,000). These trade investments are categorised as available for sale in accordance with IAS 39. The results of these companies are not 
consolidated within the results of the Group:
– 13% of the voting share capital of AirTanker Holdings Limited.
– 5% of the voting share capital of AirTanker Services Limited.
– 13.3% of the voting share capital of AirTanker Equity Bridge Loan Limited.
The total interest income and expense for financial assets and liabilities not held at fair value through profit or loss is as shown in note 6. 
Offsetting financial assets and liabilities
The following financial assets and liabilities are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements.
Cash and cash equivalents as shown in the balance sheet include overdraft balances on currency cash pooling accounts which have been 
offset as the accounts will be settled on a net basis as described in note 25. Master netting agreements also cover all bank balances and 
derivative balances with the same counterparty. These do not meet the criteria for offsetting because the right to offset is only enforceable 
on the occurrence of future events such as a default and amounts presented in the Balance Sheet are therefore presented on a gross basis.  
If full offsetting by counterparty were to be applied, the resulting net amounts would be as follows:
£m
Gross amounts 
before set off
Amounts set 
off in the 
Balance Sheet
Amounts as 
presented in 
the Balance 
Sheet
Amounts not 
set off in the 
Balance Sheet Net amount
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 343.9 (143.2) 200.7 (1.4) 199.3
Derivative financial assets 11.7 – 11.7 (5.9) 5.8
Financial liabilities
Bank overdrafts (144.9) 143.2 (1.7) 1.7 –
Derivative financial liabilities (12.0) – (12.0) 5.6 (6.4)
As at 31 December 2013 198.7 – 198.7 – 198.7
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 370.3 (106.1) 264.2 (10.4) 253.8
Derivative financial assets 7.1 – 7.1 (3.0) 4.1
Financial liabilities
Bank overdrafts (120.1) 106.1 (14.0) 11.2 (2.8)
Derivative financial liabilities (16.9) – (16.9) 2.2 (14.7)
As at 31 December 2012 240.4 – 240.4 – 240.4
17. Trade and other receivables
17a. Current
£m 2013 2012
Trade receivables (net of provision for impairment) 238.3 225.2
Accrued income 38.2 15.2
Loans and other receivables 16.5 20.0
Prepayments 24.7 20.6
317.7 281.0
101 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com 17b. Non-current
£m 2013 2012
Loans and other receivables 22.2 47.1
17c. Impairment of trade receivables
£m 2013 2012
Trade receivables 239.9 227.9
Provision for impairment of trade receivables (1.6) (2.7)
Net trade receivables 238.3 225.2
The Group has not experienced any material change in performance with respect to the recovery of trade receivables. A significant proportion 
of its business is directly with government agencies or in respect of large government funded military programmes, where risk is considered  
to remain low. Information concerning credit risk is shown in note 25.
The credit quality of trade receivables can be analysed as follows: 
£m 2013 2012
Amounts not yet due and not impaired 186.0 186.4
Amounts past due but not impaired 51.1 37.5
Amounts for which full or partial impairment provision has been made 2.8 4.0
At 31 December 239.9 227.9
Trade receivables which are past due but not considered by management to be impaired are aged as follows: 
£m 2013 2012
Due at 31 December 34.3 26.4
1 month overdue 10.1 4.5
2 months overdue 2.8 2.4
3 or more months overdue 3.9 4.2
51.1 37.5
Other classes of financial assets within trade and other receivables do not include any overdue or impaired assets. Movements in the provision 
for impairment of trade receivables during the current and prior year were not individually significant. 
18. Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale
£m 2013 2012
Intangible assets – 1.1
Property, plant and equipment 1.9 3.1
Inventories 2.8 6.1
Trade and other receivables 3.5 4.8
Total assets classified as held for sale 8.2 15.1
Trade and other payables (4.7) (2.5)
Tax and other liabilities (0.5) (0.7)
Total liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale (5.2) (3.2)
Total net assets of disposal groups and non-current assets held for sale 3.0 11.9
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale at 31 December 2013 includes businesses and vacant properties which are being actively 
marketed and are expected to be disposed of within 12 months of the balance sheet date. These assets are measured on a non-recurring 
basis at fair value (based on an estimated sales price) less costs to sell as this is lower than the original carrying value of those assets.
102 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 19. Borrowings
£m 2013 2012
Current:
Bank overdrafts 1.7 14.0
Bank loans 296.4 292.3
Senior notes 46.2 –
Loan notes, finance leases and other borrowings 0.2 1.0
344.5 307.3
Non-current:
Bank loans 45.3 –
Senior notes 264.1 316.2
Finance leases 0.2 0.6
309.6 316.8
Total borrowings 654.1 624.1
The Group’s principal borrowings include bank overdrafts, bank loans and senior notes. Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and accrue 
interest at floating rates. Interest is payable on all bank loans at LIBOR plus margin and the loans comprise the following: 
Amount drawn Undrawn facilities
2013 2012 2013 2012
Agreement date Maturity date £m £m £m £m
US$75m credit agreement December 2008 December 2016 45.3 46.2 – –
DKK525m multi-currency revolving facility June 2012 October 2017 52.7 18.9 5.8 38.2
US$360m multi-currency revolving credit 
agreement comprising: October 2011
US$90m October 2016 51.7 53.5 2.6 1.9
US$270m October 2018 155.2 160.5 7.9 5.6
EUR70m multi-currency revolving facility June 2012 June 2017 36.8 13.2 21.4 43.6
341.7 292.3 37.7 89.3
Under the US$75m agreement, which expires in 2031, the lender has a series of put options exercisable every three years from December 2016. 
The US$360m agreement contains lender’s options to extend for up to two years and during 2012 the first extension of one year was confirmed 
by the lenders of US$270m. The DKK525m facility contains lender’s options that could extend the agreement by up to two years.
A loan agreement for AUS$90m expiring in October 2018 was signed subsequent to the year-end. 
The drawdowns under the revolving multi-currency credit agreements are for periods not exceeding three months and hence these balances 
are reported as current liabilities. 
Senior notes with a total principal value of US$514.0m are outstanding as set out below:
£m Issue date Maturity date 2013 2012
US$76.5m fixed rate March 2009 March 2014 46.2 47.1
US$81m fixed rate March 2009 March 2016 48.9 49.8
US$50m floating rate May 2010 May 2017 30.2 30.8
US$105m floating rate January 2010 February/March 2018 63.4 64.5
US$157.5m fixed rate March 2009 March 2019 95.0 96.9
US$44m fixed rate October 2012 October 2020 26.6 27.1
310.3 316.2
103 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com The various loan and note subscription agreements include both financial and non-financial covenants but do not contain any provisions for 
charges over Group assets. The terms of the financial covenants are based on adjusted IFRS results and are as shown on page 25. There have 
been no breaches of the terms of agreements or defaults during the current or comparative periods. 
20. Trade and other payables
20a. Current liabilities
£m 2013 2012
Payments received on account 72.3 68.6
Trade payables 116.4 104.8
Other taxes and social security 19.2 20.6
Accruals and deferred income 104.4 116.6
Contingent consideration 15.2 2.5
Other liabilities 42.8 36.8
370.3 349.9
20b. Non-current liabilities
£m 2013 2012
Payments received on account 9.4 11.3
Trade payables 0.7 0.3
Accruals and deferred income 10.7 8.2
Contingent consideration 12.2 14.3
Other liabilities 5.0 5.0
38.0 39.1
Movements in the fair value of contingent consideration during the year are as follows:
£m 2013
At 1 January 2013 16.8
Acquired on business combinations 22.1
Amounts paid (2.5)
Gains or losses recognised in profit or loss:
Released in year (11.9)
Unrealised change in fair value – discounting included in finance costs 2.6
Foreign exchange adjustments 0.3
At 31 December 2013 27.4
The fair value of contingent consideration is not based on observable market data but is based on management’s best estimates of discounted 
expected payments of contingent consideration reflecting expectations of achievement of earnings targets. The estimated fair value would 
decrease with lower than anticipated annual revenue growth rates and profit margin or a higher discount rate. Management consider that 
changing the unobservable inputs to reflect other reasonably possible alternative assumptions would not result in a significant change in the 
estimated fair value. Of the amount outstanding at 31 December 2013, £12.5m has been paid in January 2014 and the remainder is due to be 
paid by March 2015.
Contingent consideration has been released in the year following a reassessment of the likely outcome of the agreements relating to acquisitions 
in a prior year. The amount released is included in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement and is excluded from 
underlying profit in note 3. 
104 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 21. Provisions
£m 2013 2012
Current liabilities 34.4 36.3
Non-current liabilities 8.6 10.9
43.0 47.2
Movements in provisions during the year are as follows:
£m
Provisions 
related to 
businesses 
divested
Warranty 
claims
Contract loss 
provisions
Aircraft 
maintenance 
provisions Other Total
At 1 January 2013 12.8 10.3 5.4 3.4 15.3 47.2
Additional provisions in the year – 5.0 2.8 2.0 3.7 13.5
Acquired on business combinations – 0.1 – – – 0.1
Utilisation of provisions (0.7) (3.1) (2.3) (0.4) (3.2) (9.7)
Unused amounts reversed in the year (1.3) (2.0) (1.5) (1.3) (1.9) (8.0)
Reclassifications – – – 0.3 – 0.3
Foreign exchange adjustments – 0.2 – (0.6) – (0.4)
At 31 December 2013 10.8 10.5 4.4 3.4 13.9 43.0
Provisions related to businesses divested relate to longer term warranties given on divestments completed in 2005. Due to uncertainties 
surrounding the timing of settlement of these items, they have been disclosed as current liabilities. 
Provisions for warranty claims and contract losses are generally expected to be crystallised within one year. 
Aircraft maintenance provisions relate to significant periodic maintenance costs as well as return conditions for leased aircraft. These conditions 
may relate to the number of operational hours to be available before a major maintenance check, the physical configuration of the aircraft  
or direct costs to be incurred by the lessee in the physical return of the aircraft to the lessor. While there is uncertainty over the future level  
of flying hours, aircraft maintenance provisions are anticipated to crystallise in the next eight years. 
Other provisions include amounts provided in respect of announced business restructuring and legal claims and are expected to be settled 
within one year. 
105 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com 22. Deferred tax
£m 2013 2012
Deferred tax assets (9.9) (9.8)
Deferred tax liabilities 52.9 44.2
43.0 34.4
The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group, and the movements thereon:
£m
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations
Intangible 
assets Other Total
At 1 January 2012 10.8 (17.8) 24.1 (19.9) (2.8)
(Credit)/charge to income statement (as restated) 7.3 2.6 3.8 (28.9) (15.2)
Charge/(credit) to other comprehensive income (as restated) – (1.8) – 16.9 15.1
Credit to reserves – – – (0.5) (0.5)
Acquired with business combinations 0.6 – 37.4 (2.6) 35.4
Business divestments – – – 1.3 1.3
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.3) – (1.2) 1.3 (0.2)
Reclassifications – – 1.3 – 1.3
At 1 January 2013 18.4 (17.0) 65.4 (32.4) 34.4
(Credit)/charge to income statement 2.3 2.7 (20.1) (2.2) (17.3)
(Credit)/charge to other comprehensive income – (4.1) – 1.2 (2.9)
Credit to reserves – – – (2.1) (2.1)
Acquired with business combinations (1.6) – 27.4 2.6 28.4
Foreign exchange adjustments (0.8) – 1.2 2.5 2.9
Reclassifications – – (0.4) – (0.4)
At 31 December 2013 18.3 (18.4) 73.5 (30.4) 43.0
Other deferred tax assets and liabilities shown above include balances arising from temporary differences in relation to provisions,  
deferred compensation, share based payments and derivative financial instruments. 
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy. Deferred tax balances  
(after offset) for balance sheet purposes are analysed as follows:
£m 2013 2012
Deferred tax liabilities fall due as follows:
Within one year 17.6 7.2
After one year 35.3 37.0
52.9 44.2
Deferred tax assets are recoverable as follows:
Within one year (5.7) (2.8)
After one year (4.2) (7.0)
(9.9) (9.8)
106 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances, deferred tax balances are as follows:
£m
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations
Intangible 
assets Other Total
Deferred tax assets – (18.4) – (44.8) (63.2)
Deferred tax liabilities 18.3 – 73.5 14.4 106.2
At 31 December 2013 18.3 (18.4) 73.5 (30.4) 43.0
Deferred tax assets (0.8) (17.0) – (42.2) (60.0)
Deferred tax liabilities 19.2 – 65.4 9.8 94.4
At 31 December 2012 18.4 (17.0) 65.4 (32.4) 34.4
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused capital losses of £65.7m (2012: £65.7m) potentially available for offset against future capital 
profits in certain circumstances. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of this amount because of the unpredictability of 
future qualifying profit streams. These losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries and joint 
ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is £369.2m (2012: £431.1m). 
23. Derivative financial instruments
The fair values of derivative financial instruments are as follows:
£m
Interest rate 
swaps – cash 
flow hedges
 Foreign 
exchange 
derivatives Inflation swap Total
Non-current assets – 5.1 – 5.1
Current assets – 6.6 – 6.6
Current liabilities (0.5) (3.6) (0.5) (4.6)
Non-current liabilities (2.7) (1.8) (2.9) (7.4)
Fair value at 31 December 2013 (3.2) 6.3 (3.4) (0.3)
Non-current assets – 3.4 – 3.4
Current assets – 3.7 – 3.7
Current liabilities (3.5) (2.6) (0.5) (6.6)
Non-current liabilities (4.8) (2.7) (2.8) (10.3)
Fair value at 31 December 2012 (8.3) 1.8 (3.3) (9.8)
107 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com The movements in the fair values of derivative financial instruments during the year are as follows:
£m Note
Interest rate 
swaps – cash 
flow hedges
 Foreign 
exchange 
derivatives Inflation swap Total
At 1 January 2012 (12.4) (14.4) (1.7) (28.5)
Gain/(loss) through income statement – not hedged – 12.8 (1.7) 11.1
Gain through income statement – other – 3.4 – 3.4
Gain reclassified to income statement 27 7.2 – – 7.2
Loss through OCI – hedged items 27 (3.5) – – (3.5)
Foreign exchange adjustments 27 0.4 – 0.1 0.5
At 1 January 2013 (8.3) 1.8 (3.3) (9.8)
Gain/(loss) through income statement – not hedged – 2.9 (0.7) 2.2
Gain through income statement – other – 1.5 – 1.5
Gain reclassified to income statement 27 4.5 – – 4.5
Foreign exchange adjustments 27 0.6 0.1 0.6 1.3
At 31 December 2013 (3.2) 6.3 (3.4) (0.3)
Interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedging instruments and hedge accounting is applied. There is no material ineffectiveness  
in cash flow hedges to be reported through the income statement. 
Foreign exchange and inflation derivatives are not accounted for using hedge accounting and movements in fair values are recorded in the 
income statement as part of operating profit. The movement in the fair value of currency swaps which offset movements in currency 
balances are offset against exchange movements in those balances in the income statement. 
Full details of the Group’s financial instrument accounting policies and risk management strategies, objectives and policies are set out in the 
accounting policies in note 1 and in note 25, financial risk management. 
108 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 24. Retirement benefit schemes
Retirement benefit obligations per the Balance Sheet consist of:
£m 2013 2012
Defined benefit scheme assets 577.6 572.4
Defined benefit obligations (664.9) (645.8)
(87.3) (73.4)
Pension expense included in employment costs in note 5 are as follows:
£m 2013 2012
Defined benefit schemes 5.2 4.6
Defined contribution schemes 24.4 21.1
29.6 25.7
The Group operates a number of funded defined benefit schemes, the most significant being the Cobham Pension Plan (CPP). The assets  
of all of these schemes are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees. All defined benefit schemes  
have been closed to new members since 2003. The Group also manages a number of defined contribution pension arrangements.
Actuarial valuations of the present value of the defined benefit obligations for the CPP are carried out on a triennial basis by qualified 
independent actuaries; the most recent valuation was as at 1 April 2012. Actuarial valuations of other schemes have been carried out at 
regular intervals as required by the applicable country regulations. The actuarial valuations were updated by qualified independent actuaries 
for accounting purposes to 31 December 2013. 
On 1 July 2013 the liabilities related to past service of pensioners of the CPP on that date were subject to a buy-in arrangement. Under the terms 
of this arrangement, the CPP transferred assets to an insurance company in return for a qualifying insurance policy which provides an income 
stream to the Plan equivalent to the Plan’s obligations to pensioners covered by the arrangement. This eliminated the Group’s exposure to the 
interest, inflation and longevity risks associated with these liabilities. The liabilities covered by this buy-in amounted to £242m, which had the 
impact of generating an actuarial loss of £39m. This follows similar buy-in arrangements completed in 2011 related to past service of pensioner 
and deferred members of some of the smaller defined benefit schemes. The insurance contract assets are measured at a value equal to the 
related liabilities. 
There were no significant contributions outstanding at the end of 2013 or 2012 for the defined benefit schemes. £1.2m (2012: £0.6m) was 
outstanding in respect of defined contribution schemes but not due for payment at 31 December 2013.
The principal financial assumptions used for the purpose of the actuarial valuations were as follows:
2013 2012
UK  
schemes
USA  
scheme
UK  
schemes
USA  
scheme
Rate of increase in salary costs 3.80% 3.80% 3.47% 3.47%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment unless overridden by specific scheme rules 3.55% 3.55% 2.97% 2.97%
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.55% 3.55% 2.17% 2.97%
Discount rate 4.50% 4.50% 4.40% 4.40%
Inflation assumption 3.55% 3.55% 2.97% 2.97%
109 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com The mortality assumptions used for the CPP are based upon actuarial tables which reflect actual recent mortality experience and also allow 
for future mortality improvements. The mortality tables used to estimate life expectancy are known as ‘SAPS CMI 09’. In practical terms,  
this is demonstrated in the table below:
Year of birth Year age 65
Further life 
expectancy
Male 1948 2013 22.7 years
Female 1948 2013 24.8 years
Male 1980 2045 25.8 years
Female 1980 2045 27.9 years
At 31 December 2013 it has been assumed that members will commute on average 20% (2012: 20%) of their pension for cash at retirement.  
This implies a full take-up of the permitted 25% (2012: 25%) commutation by approximately 80% (2012: 80%) of eligible members on retirement.
The sensitivity of scheme liabilities to changes in certain key assumptions, after adjusting for liabilities covered by insurance contracts,  
is provided below:
– Increasing the discount rate by 0.1% would decrease scheme liabilities by £6.2m.
– Increasing the inflation rate by 0.1% would increase scheme liabilities by £3.4m.
– If each scheme member was expected to live for an additional year, then scheme liabilities would increase by £9.4m.
The impact of increases and decreases in assumptions are approximately symmetrical. 
A summary of the movements in the net liability and the amounts recognised in the income statement and other comprehensive income  
are as follows:
2013 2012
£m
Scheme 
assets
Defined 
benefit 
obligations Total
Scheme  
assets
Defined 
benefit 
obligations Total
Net liability at start of year 572.4 (645.8) (73.4) 528.7 (599.9) (71.2)
Amounts recognised in operating profit:
Current service cost included in administrative expenses – (5.2) (5.2) – (4.3) (4.3)
Past service (cost)/credit included in administrative expenses – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Scheme administration expenses (1.4) – (1.4) (1.1) – (1.1)
Amounts credited/(charged) to other finance income/costs:
 Net interest 25.2 (28.0) (2.8) 25.7 (28.6) (2.9)
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income:
Actual return less interest income on pension scheme assets 22.8 – 22.8 14.8 – 14.8
Actuarial loss arising on buy-in transaction (39.0) – (39.0) – – –
Experience gains arising on scheme liabilities – – – – 12.8 12.8
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial 
assumptions – (18.1) (18.1) – (40.9) (40.9)
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in demographic 
assumptions – 8.7 8.7 – (0.4) (0.4)
Amounts included in cash flow statement:
Employer contributions 21.1 – 21.1 20.0 – 20.0
Member contributions 2.7 (2.7) – 2.8 (2.8) –
NI rebates – – – 0.6 (0.6) –
Benefits paid (25.9) 25.9 – (18.4) 18.4 –
Other changes:
Exchange differences (0.3) 0.3 – (0.7) 0.8 0.1
Net liability at end of year 577.6 (664.9) (87.3) 572.4 (645.8) (73.4)
110 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Total employer contributions exceeded current service cost, past service cost and scheme administration expenses by £14.5m (2012: £14.3m).
The present value of funded obligations relating to the US scheme is US$35.5m (2012: US$34.5m) and the fair value of scheme assets relating 
to the US scheme is US$26.2m (2012: US$21.3m).
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income since transition  
to IFRS is £208.1m loss (2012: £182.5m loss). Of the actuarial losses recognised in the year, the changes in financial assumptions are primarily 
driven by the movements in the discount rate and inflation assumption, and the change in demographic assumptions primarily arose from 
changes to the assumed proportion of members who are married on the date of their retirement.
The actual return on scheme assets was £48.0m (2012: £40.5m) before accounting for the actuarial loss of £39.0m generated on the buy-in 
transaction. The Group expects to contribute £22.1m to its defined benefit pension schemes in 2014. This includes £17.6m related to deficit 
funding. The weighted average duration of the scheme liabilities is estimated to be 19 years.
The fair value of major categories of scheme assets, and as a percentage of total scheme assets, is as follows:
2013 2012
£m % £m %
UK equity instruments 74.7 12.9% 95.7 16.7%
Overseas equities 43.0 7.4% 50.6 8.8%
Emerging markets equities 20.0 3.5% 21.1 3.7%
Gilts – – 105.5 18.4%
Corporate bonds 28.8 5.0% 124.0 21.7%
Property – – 40.6 7.1%
Diversified growth funds 127.4 22.1% 94.0 16.4%
Insurance contracts 280.7 48.6% 40.1 7.0%
Other assets 3.0 0.5% 0.8 0.2%
577.6 100.0% 572.4 100.0%
The expected rates of return on individual categories of scheme assets are determined by reference to relevant indices published by,  
for example, the London Stock Exchange. The overall expected rate of return is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance 
with the anticipated balance in the schemes’ investment portfolios.
The scheme assets do not include any of the Group’s own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
The history of the scheme for the current and previous four periods is as follows:
£m 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Present value of defined benefit obligations (664.9) (645.8) (599.9) (592.8) (561.3)
Fair value of scheme assets 577.6 572.4 528.7 510.8 446.1
Net liability (87.3) (73.4) (71.2) (82.0) (115.2)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities – 12.8 1.8 1.3 1.8
Experience adjustments on scheme assets (16.2) 12.8 (40.3) 24.1 13.8
Other retirement benefit schemes
A number of the Group’s subsidiaries based in France contribute to a retirement indemnity scheme. The liabilities of the scheme were valued 
by an independent actuary as at 31 December 2012 at EUR4.3m and are recorded in these financial statements at £3.6m (2012: £3.5m). These 
liabilities are included in other liabilities in note 20. Retirement obligations relating to a subsidiary based in Germany have gross obligations  
of EUR3.1m (2012: EUR2.2m). These obligations are covered by an insurance policy and therefore there is no net liability. 
The actuarial loss for these schemes in the year to 31 December 2013, recognised in OCI, was £nil (2012: £0.5m). 
111 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com 25. Financial risk management
The Group’s multinational operations and debt financing expose it to a variety of financial risks which include the effects of changes in 
foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, liquidity risk and credit risk. The Group has in place a risk management programme that  
seeks to limit the adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group by using foreign currency financial instruments, debt and other 
instruments, including interest rate swaps. Other derivative financial instruments may be used from time to time to manage other exposures 
such as inflation risks. The financial risk management policies agreed by the Board have not changed during the year and are summarised 
below. The Group does not trade in financial instruments.
Foreign currency risk 
The Group is based in the UK, reports in sterling and has significant investment in overseas operations in the USA, Australia and other 
European countries. As a result, the Group’s balance sheet can be affected by movements in these countries’ exchange rates. The Group’s 
policy is to reduce, or eliminate where practical, both structural and transactional foreign exchange risk and, consequently, the net foreign 
exchange losses included in the income statement amounted to £3.2m (2012: £3.6m). All currency exposures are reviewed regularly and all 
significant foreign exchange transactions are approved by Cobham plc management. 
The Group has the following exposure to foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities in its Balance Sheet, 
translated into sterling at the relevant year-end exchange rates:
2013 2012
£m
Monetary 
assets
Monetary 
liabilities
Monetary 
assets
Monetary 
liabilities
US dollars 188.8 (584.9) 214.2 (620.3)
Euros 86.8 (109.3) 87.8 (49.7)
Australian dollars 56.2 (54.2) 65.9 (72.8)
Danish kroner 18.1 (90.7) 14.0 (92.6)
Other currencies 24.5 (8.3) 17.5 (6.5)
374.4 (847.4) 399.4 (841.9)
Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities 166.2 (117.9) 192.8 (74.8)
540.6 (965.3) 592.2 (916.7)
Foreign currency borrowings are used to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange differences arising from the Group’s overseas  
net assets. The Group typically borrows in the currency of the acquisition and uses intercompany debt to create a natural economic hedge. 
Monetary liabilities in the table above include US dollar borrowings of £482.4m (2012: £484.2m) and Danish kroner borrowings of £75.9m 
(2012: £74.0m) which match exposures arising from currency denominated net assets. Foreign currency contracts are also used to manage 
exposure to currency risks. 
On consolidation, the net assets of overseas subsidiaries (which include the monetary assets and liabilities shown in the tables above) are 
translated at closing exchange rates and exchange differences arising are accounted for in other comprehensive income and in the translation 
reserve (note 27). 
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk in the income statement where individual subsidiaries hold non-functional currency monetary 
assets and liabilities and when an operating unit makes sales and purchases in currencies other than its own functional currency. The Group 
undertakes a formal process to actively manage and mitigate this exposure through a combination of matching non-functional currency 
revenues and costs, matching non-functional currency monetary assets and liabilities and through the use of forward contracts. 
112 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued The sterling/US dollar exchange rate is the most important as far as the Group is concerned, particularly given the level of US dollars which 
non-US based subsidiaries expect to receive from their normal business activities, and the proportion of the Group based in the USA. The 
Group has the following forward foreign currency contracts outstanding for net sales of US dollars:
US$m amount
Average US$: £
 exchange rate
2013 2012 2013 2012
Expiring within one year 124.1 138.7 1.59 1.59
Expiring within one to two years 38.0 76.0 1.58 1.61
Expiring after two years 71.6 17.9 1.56 1.58
Contracts outstanding at 31 December 233.7 232.6 1.58 1.60
The latest expiry date of forward foreign currency contracts for sales of US dollars is July 2022 and it is the Group’s current belief that the  
net dollar receipts by its subsidiaries will exceed the level of the outstanding commitment.
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a weakening in sterling against the respective foreign currencies, with a negative number 
indicating a reduction in profit after taxation or total equity. The sensitivities below represent management’s assessment of the possible 
changes in foreign exchange rates, based on experience over the previous five years. 
2013 2012
£m Sensitivity Profit or loss Total equity Sensitivity Profit or loss Total equity
US dollars 11% (13.8) (13.8) 16% (21.0) (21.0)
Euros 9% (3.3) (3.3) 13% (10.3) (10.3)
This sensitivity analysis has been based on the assumption that the change is effective throughout the financial year and that all other variables, 
including interest rates, remain constant. It includes the effect of derivative financial instruments. 
In order to provide comparable information, sensitivity has also been assessed based on a 10% weakening in sterling against the respective 
foreign currency, as follows: 
2013 2012
£m Sensitivity Profit or loss Total equity Sensitivity Profit or loss Total equity
US dollars 10% (12.4) (12.4) 10% (12.2) (12.2)
Euros 10% (3.7) (3.7) 10% (7.7) (7.7)
Interest rate risk
The Group has long and short-term borrowings at both fixed and floating rates of interest. In managing its borrowing costs, the Group monitors 
its exposure to movements in interest rates, having regard to prevailing market conditions and, where necessary, uses interest rate swaps  
to manage the interest rate risk. 
113 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com As noted above, borrowings are held in various currencies and can be analysed between fixed and floating rates as follows: 
£m 2013 2012
Fixed rates
Senior notes 216.7 220.9
Bank loans 45.3 –
262.0 220.9
Floating rates
Bank loans and overdrafts 298.1 306.3
Senior notes 93.6 95.3
Loan notes, finance leases and other borrowings 0.4 1.6
392.1 403.2
Total borrowings 654.1 624.1
All floating rate borrowings have regular repricing dates.
Floating to fixed interest rate swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, have been used to mitigate the interest rate exposure arising on selected 
floating rate debt. Interest rate swaps outstanding at the year-end are as follows:
Period of swap contract 2013 2012
Hedged item Fixed rate from to
Currency  
value £m
Currency  
value £m
Australian dollar loans 6.30% May 2006 January 2020 AUS$58.0m 31.3 AUS$74.4m 42.3
6.40% January 2007 January 2020 AUS$10.8m 5.8 AUS$14.3m 8.0
37.1 50.3
Interest rate swaps which expired during the year to 31 December 2013 were previously used to fix the interest rates on US dollar floating  
rate loans. At 31 December 2012, these swaps had a total notional currency value of US$295.0m (£181.5m) and fixed interest rates at between 
3.22% and 3.61%.
The Group does not currently hold any fair value hedging instruments such as fixed to floating interest rate swaps. 
Surplus funds are placed on short-term fixed rate deposit and as such also give rise to interest rate exposure. There was no material sensitivity 
to changes in interest rates at the year-end. 
Liquidity risk
The Group’s policy on managing liquidity risk throughout the year has been to maintain a mix of short, medium and long term borrowings 
with lenders. Overdraft and revolving credit facilities provide short term flexibility whilst the revolving credit facilities provide longer term 
committed funding. 
As shown in note 19, undrawn committed borrowing facilities of £37.7m were available to the Group at 31 December 2013 (2012: £89.3m)  
in various currencies.
At an operating level, the Group has a positive cash flow from operating activities and where practical the funds generated by business units 
are managed on a regional basis. In the UK and US, most business units utilise local bank facilities within a UK or US group arrangement. This 
allows a balance to be maintained between continuity of funding, security and flexibility. 
The table below summarises the remaining contractual maturity for the Group’s borrowings and other financial liabilities, including derivative 
financial liabilities. The amounts shown are the contractual undiscounted cash flows which include interest, analysed by contractual maturity. 
The difference between the contractual cash flows and the carrying amount of these liabilities reflects the effects of interest not included in 
the carrying amount and discounting applied in assessing fair value. 
114 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued £m
Within  
one year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years
Over  
5 years Total
At 31 December 2013
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Borrowings
Bank loans and overdrafts 300.2 1.9 47.1 – – – 349.2
Senior notes 59.1 12.4 58.7 39.0 71.1 124.5 364.8
Other borrowings 0.2 0.2 – – – – 0.4
359.5 14.5 105.8 39.0 71.1 124.5 714.4
Trade and other payables
Trade payables 116.4 0.5 0.2 – – – 117.1
Accruals 97.0 0.5 0.3 0.3 0.3 1.2 99.6
Contingent consideration 15.2 12.2 – – – – 27.4
Other liabilities 42.8 1.0 0.7 0.9 0.8 1.6 47.8
271.4 14.2 1.2 1.2 1.1 2.8 291.9
Derivative liabilities
Interest rate swaps 1.3 0.8 0.7 0.3 0.2 0.1 3.4
Foreign exchange derivatives
Gross cash outflows 120.9 16.8 0.2 – – 7.5 145.4
Gross cash inflows (118.1) (15.1) (0.2) – – (8.0) (141.4)
Inflation swap 0.5 0.9 1.1 0.7 0.2 – 3.4
4.6 3.4 1.8 1.0 0.4 (0.4) 10.8
At 31 December 2012
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Borrowings
Bank loans and overdrafts 307.7 – – – – – 307.7
Senior notes 15.5 60.3 12.7 59.9 39.8 199.4 387.6
Other borrowings 1.0 0.5 0.1 – – – 1.6
324.2 60.8 12.8 59.9 39.8 199.4 696.9
Trade and other payables
Trade payables 104.8 0.2 0.1 – – – 105.1
Accruals 107.8 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.2 1.4 109.9
Contingent consideration 2.5 14.3 – – – – 16.8
Other liabilities 36.8 0.5 1.2 0.7 0.7 1.9 41.8
251.9 15.2 1.4 0.9 0.9 3.3 273.6
Derivative liabilities
Interest rate swaps 4.3 1.4 1.0 0.8 0.5 0.5 8.5
Foreign exchange derivatives
Gross cash outflows 120.2 25.4 15.4 – – – 161.0
Gross cash inflows (117.9) (24.2) (14.2) – – – (156.3)
Inflation swap 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.5 0.2 3.3
7.1 3.2 2.9 1.6 1.0 0.7 16.5
115 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances, cash and trade and other receivables and there are no significant concentrations  
of credit risk. 
The Group has a conservative policy towards the credit risk related to liquid funds and derivative financial instruments with balances currently 
spread across a range of reputable financial institutions, such as banks which have satisfactory credit ratings assigned by international credit 
rating agencies. The levels of credit risk are monitored through the Group’s ongoing risk management processes, which include a regular 
review of the banks’ credit ratings. Risk in this area is limited further by setting a maximum level for deposits with any one counterparty. 
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s customer base being large and unrelated. Customers 
are typically large global companies or government agencies with long term trading relationships. The Group also has in place procedures that 
require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales are made. Existing customer accounts are monitored on an ongoing basis 
and appropriate action is taken where necessary to minimise any credit risk. The Directors therefore believe there is no further credit risk provision 
required in excess of normal provision for impaired receivables shown in note 17 . 
Group management monitor the ageing of receivables which are more than one month overdue and debtor days on a regular basis.  
At 31 December 2013, 8.2% (2012: 6.4%) of gross trade receivables were overdue by one month or more. 
The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2013 is the fair value of each class of receivable as disclosed in note 17. Letters of credit 
are the only collateral held as security against trade receivables. These are obtained in a limited number of cases in accordance with good 
business practice and secure around £2.3m of receivables. 
Bank term balances totalling £6.4m (2012: £7.5m) have been pledged against the residual value of leased assets as described in note 16.
In the UK and the USA, the Group has master netting arrangements in respect of bank balances. In the normal course of business, these  
bank accounts are settled on a net basis within each currency and as such are presented net in the Balance Sheet as shown in note 16.  
In the event of an automatic enforcement event, the bank balances are automatically set off against each other to achieve a net position.
Derivatives can also be offset by counterparties in the event of a default; net amounts that result on this basis are shown in note 16. 
Inflation risk
The Group’s exposure to inflation is considered to be a general business risk which is mitigated through normal commercial activity.  
The Group has one swap contract which was designed to manage the inherent inflation risk in a specific operational contract. The fair value  
of this swap contract is included in derivative financial instruments shown in note 23.
Capital risk management
Group policy is to maintain a strong capital base, defined as total equity, excluding non-controlling interests, totalling £1,043.4m at 31 December 201 3 
(2012: £1,053.8m), so as to maintain stakeholder confidence and to sustain future development of the business. Within this overall policy, the Group 
seeks to maintain an appropriate finance structure through a mixture of debt and retained earnings. Funding needs are reviewed periodically and  
also each time a significant acquisition or business divestment is made. A number of factors are considered which include the net debt/EBITDA ratio, 
future funding needs (usually potential acquisitions) and proposed dividend levels. Group banking arrangements are also considered; these include 
financial covenants which are based on adjusted IFRS results as outlined on page 25. This policy has been reviewed by the Board on a regular basis 
during the year and, given the current economic climate, continues to be considered appropriate.
116 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 26. Share capital
£m
Number  
of shares 2013 2012
Authorised
Ordinary Shares of par value 2.5 pence 1,479,200,000 37.0 37.0
6% second cumulative Preference Shares of £1  20,000 – –
Issued and fully paid
Ordinary Shares of par value 2.5 pence 1,154,527,625 28.9 28.9
As at 31 December 2013, 85,680,533 (2012: 87,699,405) Ordinary Shares were held in treasury including 9,728,809 (2012: 11,747,681) shares held 
in the Cobham Employee Benefit Trust. At 31 December 2013, the market value of treasury shares was £235.2m (2012: £193.6m), including 
shares with a market value of £26.7m (2012: £25.9m) held by the Cobham Employee Benefit Trust.
During the year ended 31 December 2013, treasury shares were used to satisfy awards and options under the Group’s PSP , BCP , ESOS and 
ShareSave schemes. The net cost of treasury shares after receipts from option exercises is deducted from retained earnings and total equity. 
Further details of the share capital of Cobham plc can be found in the Directors’ Report on page 64.
27. Other reserves
£m Note
Translation 
reserve Hedge reserve
Share options 
reserve
Total other 
reserves
At 1 January 2012 65.1 (5.7) 24.4 83.8
Foreign exchange differences on translation of overseas operations (19.2) – – (19.2)
Reclassification of foreign exchange on divestment of overseas operation (4.8) – – (4.8)
Movements on cash flow hedges 23 0.4 (3.5) – (3.1)
Reclassification of fair value of cash flow hedges to income statement – 7.2 – 7.2
Release of hedge reserve – 2.8 – 2.8
Transfer of hedge reserve to retained earnings – (3.7) – (3.7)
Transfer of translation reserve on settlement of cash flow hedge contracts 0.3 (0.3) – –
Transfer of share options reserve on exercise – – (2.8) (2.8)
Share based payments recognised in reserves 28 – – 6.8 6.8
Dividend equivalents paid on vesting of PSP and BCP awards – – (0.1) (0.1)
Tax effects (0.1) (3.1) 0.5 (2.7)
At 1 January 2013 41.7 (6.3) 28.8 64.2
Foreign exchange differences on translation of overseas operations (11.1) – – (11.1)
Movements on cash flow hedges 23 0.6 – – 0.6
Reclassification of fair value of cash flow hedges to income statement – 4.5 – 4.5
Release of hedge reserve – 1.5 – 1.5
Transfer of translation reserve on settlement of cash flow hedge contracts 1.5 (1.5) – –
Transfer of share options reserve on exercise – – (4.2) (4.2)
Share based payments recognised in reserves 28 – – (1.7) (1.7)
Tax effects (0.5) (0.7) 2.6 1.4
At 31 December 2013 32.2 (2.5) 25.5 55.2
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising on the results and financial position of subsidiaries whose 
functional currencies differ from the Group’s reporting currency. Foreign exchange movements arising on interest rate swaps designated  
as cash flow hedges are also included here and, following the settlement of the financial instrument, any balances remaining are transferred  
to retained earnings. 
117 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com The hedge reserve reflects movements in fair values on cash flow hedging derivatives as detailed in notes 23 and 25.
The share options reserve includes the cost of share options as assessed under IFRS 2 together with deferred tax provided under IAS 12 
relating to share based payments, where the calculated future tax benefit is in excess of the amount charged to date under IFRS 2. The 
appropriate proportion of the share options reserve is transferred to retained earnings following exercise. 
28. Share based payments
The total amount included in the income statement arising from the Group’s equity settled share based payment schemes is as follows:
£m 2013 2012
PSP 4.7 4.5
Other schemes 1.2 2.3
Release of amounts charged in previous years (7.6) –
(1.7) 6.8
During the year ended 31 December 2013, £7.6m which has been charged to the Income Statement in previous years has been released, 
reflecting actual vesting experience of vested awards and a reassessment of the expected future vesting of awards which are unvested  
at the year-end, based on non-market related performance conditions. 
The Group operates the following equity settled share based payment schemes: 
The PSP scheme is offered to senior executives across the Group and allows for annual grants of conditional shares with vesting conditions 
based on the Group’s financial performance, taking into account both market based conditions such as TSR growth and non-market based 
measures such as EPS growth or cash conversion respectively. The scheme includes buy-out awards granted in 2012 and 2013 to the Group’s 
CEO and CFO. 
Until 2012, share options were also awarded to senior executives under the ESOS scheme, with exercise conditional upon the Group’s underlying 
EPS growth over a three year period. Awards have been made in 2013 to US employees under the ‘time-only’ section of the ESOS. This allows 
for options to be granted with 25% vesting on each annual anniversary, conditional only on continued employment within the Group.
The Bonus Co-investment Plan (BCP) is offered to a small number of senior executives and provides matching shares where bonus awards  
are invested in shares. 
Finally the Group operates a ShareSave scheme which is open to all UK employees. The fair values of ESOS and ShareSave awards are significantly 
lower than for PSP and BSP awards due to the effect of the exercise price which is set based upon the market value of the Group’s Ordinary Shares 
around the date of grant. 
Further details of all the schemes can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 50 and 51.
The number of options outstanding at 31 December are as follows:
Number of awards (thousands of shares) 2013 2012
PSP 8,544 7,794
ESOS 10,161 17,698
BCP 190 350
ShareSave 5,447 6,498
At 31 December 24,342 32,340
118 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Details of movements in the awards under the PSP scheme are as follows:
Number of awards (thousands of shares) 2013 2012
At 1 January 7,794 6,838
Awards granted 3,531 3,076
Awards forfeited or cancelled (2,315) (1,629)
Exercised (466) (490)
Expired – (1)
At 31 December 8,544 7,794 
Weighted average remaining contractual life of PSP awards outstanding 1.38 years 1.28 years
Number of PSP awards exercisable at 31 December (thousands) 669 212
Effective date of grant for awards made in the year
4 April,  
19 August
26 March,  
14 September
Average fair value at date of grant £2.223 £1.735
The average fair values above were calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model modified by a Monte Carlo simulation to determine 
the likely impact of market related performance conditions. The inputs into the models were as follows:
2013 2012
Weighted average share price £2.472 £2.250
Weighted average exercise price nil nil
Expected volatility 26% 31%
Expected life 2.96 years 2.79 years
Expected employee cancellation rate 1.8% 2.2%
Risk free rate 0.3% 1.3%
Expected volatility was determined through the assessment of the historical volatility over a period consistent with the expected life of  
the award. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability 
and behavioural considerations. The expected employee cancellation rate is based on an assessment of historic rates of voluntary cancellations 
of contracts by employees. Most participants of the PSP scheme receive the benefit of dividend payments and therefore dividend yields are 
not taken into consideration in the valuation model.
119 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com 29. Business combinations 
Businesses acquired during the year
The purchase of the entire share capital of Avenue 64 Limited, the parent company of the Axell Wireless group (Axell), was completed on 9 
May 2013. On a debt and cash free basis, total consideration was £85m including conditional cash consideration of up to £25m payable during 
2014 and 2015, contingent on future performance. 
Axell is a leading global provider of Distributed Antenna Systems and wireless solutions for the public safety and cellular markets, with a 
specific focus on communication systems for buildings and critical infrastructure applications. Axell brings technology that is complementary 
to the Group’s existing Antenna Systems and Tactical Communications and Surveillance businesses and its acquisition is in line with the 
Group’s strategic objectives. The company has approximately 250 employees worldwide and is headquartered in Chesham, UK. It is reported 
through the Antenna Systems Strategic Business Unit, within the Aerospace and Security Division.
On 15 July 2013 it was announced that an agreement was reached to acquire the 50% shareholding that the Group did not already own  
in FB Heliservices Limited, FB Leasing Limited and FBS Limited (together FBH), from its long standing joint venture partner, Bristow Helicopters 
Limited (Bristow). The transaction comprised cash consideration of £74m payable on completion, together with the assumption of Bristow’s 
share of FBH’s net debt. FBH specialises in defence helicopter training in the UK and elsewhere, including a contract with the Ministry of 
Defence to train helicopter crews for all branches of the armed forces, as well as the provision of search and rescue, logistics and emergency 
medical services for government customers globally. 
In accordance with IFRS 3, the revaluation gains on previously held equity interests in FBH that arise on gaining full control of the company 
have been recognised in the income statement. This business is now part of Aviation Services.
Fair value information
Components of the fair value of the business combinations during the year are as follows:
£m Axell FBH Total
Cash consideration 55.5 74.2 129.7
Revaluation gains arising on equity interests on transfer of control – 62.1 62.1
Investment in joint venture on date of transfer – 12.2 12.2
Contingent consideration 22.1 – 22.1
Total fair value at date control achieved 77.6 148.5 226.1
Revaluation gains arising on equity interests on transfer of control are excluded from underlying profits as shown in note 3. Contingent 
consideration has been provided at fair value which is considered to be the discounted maximum payable under the agreement. Further 
details can be found in note 20.
A summary of the fair values of the net assets acquired are as follows: 
£m Axell FBH Total
Non-current assets 48.0 161.5 209.5
Current assets 22.5 23.8 46.3
Current liabilities (15.9) (72.2) (88.1)
Non-current liabilities (12.0) (16.5) (28.5)
Net assets acquired 42.6 96.6 139.2
Goodwill 35.0 51.9 86.9
Total value of business acquired 77.6 148.5 226.1
The fair values of net assets acquired in respect of FBH are provisional and subject to potential adjustment.
120 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued All intangible assets were recognised at their respective fair values. The residual excess of the total cost over the fair value of the net assets 
acquired is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements. Goodwill represents the premium paid in anticipation of future economic 
benefits from assets that are not capable of being separately identified and separately recognised, such as the value of the workforce. 
Goodwill is not anticipated to be deductible for tax purposes. 
The fair values of acquired receivables included in current assets in the table above are £6.0m for Axell and £12.2m for FBH. These relate to trade 
and other receivables and are considered to be recoverable in full. Current liabilities of FBH on acquisition included £43.2m payable to Cobham.
Results of business combinations
Third party revenue of Axell and FBH, since acquisition, was £34.9m and £42.3m respectively. The result after tax since the date of acquisition 
was £6.0m loss and £3.7m loss. These include the impacts of amortisation of the intangible assets which are recognised as a result of the 
business combination and writing off the pre-acquisition profit element of inventory written up on acquisition. Operating profit was £6.2m  
for Axell and £8.5m for FBH.
If these business combinations had taken effect on 1 January 2013, it is estimated that Group total revenues would have been £1,842.7m and 
profit after tax £108.0m. This information is not necessarily indicative of the results had the operations been acquired at the start of the period, 
nor of future results of the combined operations.
The net cash flows resulting from business combinations are as follows: 
£m Total
Cash consideration paid for the business combinations completed in the year 130.1
Net debt acquired with the business combinations completed in the year (4.1)
126.0
Costs of £1.7m were incurred in relation to business combinations. These costs are recognised within administrative expenses in the 
Consolidated Income Statement and included within other M&A related costs excluded from underlying profit as shown in note 3.
30. Operating lease arrangements
At the balance sheet date the Group had outstanding commitments for minimum lease payments due under non-cancellable operating leases 
as follows:
£m 2013 2012
Within one year 26.0 26.1
Between one and two years 23.4 23.1
Between two and three years 21.0 21.6
Between three and four years 18.8 18.7
Between four and five years 16.3 17.3
After five years 63.4 88.0
168.9 194.8
Operating lease payments during the year totalled £30.4m (2012: £31.1m) including rental costs of £7.1m (2012: £8.4m) relating to operational 
aircraft used in its service businesses; the remainder primarily relates to the rental of office and operating facilities.
121 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com 31. Contingent liabilities and commitments
At 31 December 2013, the Company and the Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and contractual performance guarantees  
and other matters arising in the ordinary course of business. Where it is expected that a material liability will arise in respect of these matters, 
appropriate provision is made within the Group Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company and various of its subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to various legal proceedings and claims. Management do not 
anticipate that the outcome of these, either individually or in aggregate, would have a material adverse effect upon the Group’s financial 
position as at 31 December 2013.
As notified in prior years, the Group has previously identified one, more significant, contractual breach dating back some years. The contract 
was in respect of goods provided into a geographic market which represents only a small amount of revenue for the Group. The circumstances 
surrounding this remain under review and neither the outcome nor the timing of resolution can be estimated. No further information is 
disclosed as it could be prejudicial.
The nature of much of the contracting work done by the Group means that there are reasonably frequent contractual issues, variations and 
renegotiations that arise in the ordinary course of business, whose resolution is uncertain and could materially impact the Group’s future 
reported earnings. In particular, on fixed price development contracts, where there is currently a high level of activity, costs incurred and 
anticipated can significantly exceed amounts estimated at inception as a result of material enhancements to the specifications originally 
agreed under the contracts. Judgement is therefore required as regards the outcome of negotiations and the amounts recoverable under 
these contracts. The Directors take account of the advice of experts in making these judgements and believe that the outcome of 
negotiations will result in an appropriate recovery of costs. 
On 24 February 2014 the Group voluntarily contacted the United States Department of Justice (DoJ) to inform it that Cobham had undertaken 
an initial internal investigation into potentially irregular sales practices concerning sales to Asia of certain commercial, non-classified products 
manufactured by TracStar Systems Inc. (TracStar). TracStar is based in Orlando, Florida and is part of the group’s SATCOM business. The 
business manufactures a range of inertial stabilisation and satellite tracking systems used by government and commercial customers globally 
for land based applications. Its total worldwide revenue in 2013 was under £15m, representing less than 1% of Group revenue. Cobham will 
continue to co-operate with the DoJ in relation to this matter however, the circumstances are under review and neither the outcome nor the 
timescale for resolution can be estimated at present. 
At 31 December 2013, the Group had commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment of £13.6m (2012: £17.2m).
32. Related party transactions
£m 2013 2012
Transactions between Group entities and joint ventures and associates during the year
Sales of goods 0.4 0.3
Purchases of goods 0.3 0.4
Dividends received from joint ventures (3.7) (7.5)
Loan advanced to joint venture – 40.0
Loan repayments and interest received from joint ventures (3.0) (3.1)
Amounts owed by joint ventures at the year-end – 45.4
Sales of goods to related parties were made at the Group’s usual list prices for sales to non-related parties.
The amounts owed are unsecured, will be settled in cash and are included in other receivables in note 17. No guarantees have been given  
to, or received from, related parties. No expense has been recognised in the period for bad or doubtful debts in respect of the amounts  
owed by related parties.
Compensation of key management personnel
Details of the compensation of key management personnel can be found in note 5. 
The Directors of Cobham plc had no material transactions with the Company during the year, other than as a result of service agreements. 
Details of Directors’ remuneration are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 63. 
122 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 33. Events after the balance sheet date
In February 2014, a loan agreement was signed for AUS$90m expiring in October 2018. 
34. Subsidiaries
All subsidiary undertakings have been included in the Group consolidation. The undertakings held at 31 December 2013 which, in the opinion 
of the Directors, principally affected the results for the year or the net assets of the Group were:
Operating 
segment Strategic Business Unit and principal activities Name of undertaking
Place of incorporation  
(or registration) and operation
Cobham Aerospace and Security
Cobham Aerospace Communications
Design and manufacture of navigation, communication
and airborne networking products and systems  
for commercial, business, homeland security and  
military aircraft.
Air Précision SAS France
Chelton Avionics, Inc USA
Chelton Telecom and Microwave SAS France
TEAM SA France
Cobham Antenna Systems
Design and manufacture of communication systems 
and navigation antennas that enable people and 
systems to communicate on land, in the air and at sea.
Axell Wireless Limited England
Chelton Limited England
Chelton, Inc USA
Cobham Advanced Composites Limited England
Cobham Composite Products Inc USA
Cobham CTS Limited England
Continental Microwave & Tool Co, Inc USA
Trivec-Avant Corporation USA
Cobham SATCOM
Development, manufacture, sales and support  
of satellite and radio communication equipment  
and earth stations for maritime based, land based  
and aeronautical applications.
Omnipless Manufacturing (Pty) Limited South Africa
Sea Tel, Inc USA
Thrane & Thrane A/S Denmark
Cobham Tactical Communications and Surveillance
Provision of specialist communications, security and 
surveillance products including integrated systems  
and solutions.
Cobham Defence Communications Limited England
Cobham TCS Limited England
DTC Communications, Inc USA
Cobham Defence Systems
Cobham Defence Electronics
Design and manufacture of antenna systems  
and radomes, ground data link terminals, active  
microwave components, assemblies and subsystems  
for the aerospace and defence industries.
Cobham Electronic Systems Inc USA
REMEC Defense & Space, Inc USA
Sensor & Antenna Systems, Lansdale, Inc USA
123 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Statements
www.cobham.com Operating 
segment Strategic Business Unit and principal activities Name of undertaking
Place of incorporation  
(or registration) and operation
Cobham Mission Systems
Cobham Life Support
Life support, safety and personal survival equipment 
systems including oxygen systems for aviators and 
astronauts, crew restraints and flotation gear along  
with fuel tank inerting capabilities.
Carleton Life Support Systems, Inc * USA
Carleton Technologies, Inc * USA
Cobham Mission Equipment
Design, development and manufacture of critical 
technology for air-to-air refuelling, weapons carriage  
and release systems and unmanned explosive  
ordnance robot applications for both military  
and homeland security markets.
Carleton Life Support Systems, Inc * USA
Carleton Technologies, Inc * USA
Flight Refuelling Limited ** England
Telerob Gesellschaft für 
Fernhantierungstechnik mbH
Germany
Cobham Aviation Services
Cobham Aviation Services
Delivers specialist aviation services for commercial, 
government and defence customers worldwide  
through airborne special mission operations,  
outsourced commercial aviation, military training,  
aircraft engineering, flight inspection and air  
traffic services.
FR Aviation Limited England
FB Heliservices Limited England
Jet Systems Pty Limited Australia
National Jet Express Pty Limited Australia
National Jet Systems Pty Limited Australia
Surveillance Australia Pty Limited Australia
*   Carleton Life Support Systems, Inc and Carleton Technologies, Inc both operate across the Cobham Life Support and Cobham Mission Equipment SBUs.
** Issued shares in Flight Refuelling Limited are held by Cobham plc. Otherwise shares are held by, or by a nominee for, a subsidiary of Cobham plc. 
The Group owns 100% of the share capital of all subsidiaries with the exception of TEAM SA (98.7% owned). 
A full list of subsidiary companies is annexed to the Company’s annual return to the Registrar of Companies. 
124 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Report on the Parent Company Financial Statements
Our opinion 
In our opinion the Parent Company Financial Statements,  
defined below:
•	 give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Company’s 
affairs as at 31 December 2013;
•	 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
•	 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the 
remainder of this report.
What we have audited
The Parent Company Financial Statements, which are prepared  
by Cobham plc, comprise:
•	 the Parent Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2013;
•	 the Parent Company Reconciliation of Movements in 
Shareholders’ Funds for the year then ended; and
•	 the Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements, which 
include a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation comprises applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
In applying the financial reporting framework, the Directors have 
made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect  
of significant accounting estimates. In making such estimates, they 
have made assumptions and considered future events.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework 
have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts, 
rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are 
cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified 
as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (ISAs (UK & Ireland)). An audit involves 
obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused  
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of:
•	 whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent 
Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed;
•	 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made  
by the Directors; and 
•	 the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in 
the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited Parent Company Financial Statements and to identify 
any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or 
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. 
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the Parent Company 
Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent 
Company Financial Statements.
•	 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited  
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006.
Other matters on which we are required to report  
by exception
Adequacy of accounting records and information  
and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion:
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•	 the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law have not been made. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other information in the Annual Report and Accounts
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion, information in the Annual Report and Accounts is:
•	 materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Parent 
Company Financial Statements; or
•	 apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Parent Company 
acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
•	 is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
125 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Parent Company Financial Statements
www.cobham.com
Independent Auditors’ Report to the 
Members of Cobham plc Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
on page 67, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
Parent Company Financial Statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent 
Company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and 
ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only 
for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We 
do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for 
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is 
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements  
of Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Stuart Watson 
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
5 March 2014
126 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Independent Auditors’ Report continued £m Note 2013 2012
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 6 – 0.2
Tangible assets 7 0.1 0.2
Investments in Group and other undertakings 5 776.8 779.1
Other investments 5 6.1 –
Financial assets: derivative financial instruments 12 18.1 14.2
801.1 793.7
Current assets
Financial assets: derivative financial instruments 12 8.3 5.8
Debtors 8 1,118.9 1,107.2
Cash at bank and in hand 74.1 7.1
1,201.3 1,120.1
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 9 (651.7) (567.3)
Net current assets 549.6 552.8
Total assets less current liabilities 1,350.7 1,346.5
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 10 (723.7) (731.3)
Provisions for liabilities 11 (6.6) (6.6)
Net assets 620.4 608.6
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 13 28.9 28.9
Share premium account 14 126.6 126.6
Special reserve 14 43.6 43.6
Other reserves 14 14.8 16.9
Profit and loss account 14 406.5 392.6
Equity shareholders’ funds 620.4 608.6
The financial statements on pages 127 to 135 were approved by a duly appointed and authorised committee of the Board on 5 March 2014  
and signed on its behalf by:
R Murphy    S Nicholls
Directors 
127 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Parent Company Financial Statements
www.cobham.com
Parent Company Balance Sheet 
(under UK GAAP)
As at 31 December 2013 £m Note 2013 2012
Profit for the financial year 108.1 164.3
Dividends 2 (96.6) (92.5)
Retained profit for the financial year 11.5 71.8
Treasury shares 14 (1.8) (18.7)
Movements in hedge reserve 14 3.8 (0.6)
Reclassification of hedge reserve 14 – 3.8
Share based payments 14 (1.7) 6.8
Dividend equivalents paid on vesting of PSP and BCP awards 14 – (0.1)
Net addition to shareholders’ funds 11.8 63.0
Shareholders’ funds at 1 January 608.6 545.6
Shareholders’ funds at 31 December 620.4 608.6
Profit for the financial year
In accordance with the concession granted under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of Cobham plc  
has not been separately presented in these financial statements.
128 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds
For the year ended 31 December 2013 1. Parent Company accounting policies 
Accounting convention
These financial statements have been prepared on the going concern 
basis, under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation 
of derivative contracts which are held at fair value, and in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards  
in the United Kingdom (UK GAAP). 
The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently 
applied, are as set out below.
Dividends 
Dividends payable are recognised as a liability in the period in which 
they are fully authorised. Dividend income is recognised when the 
shareholders’ right to receive payment has been established.
Pensions
The Company operates and contributes to multi-employer defined 
benefit pension schemes. Contributions and pension costs are 
apportioned across the schemes as a whole and assessed in accordance 
with the advice of qualified actuaries. The schemes are closed to new 
members and have a high proportion of deferred and pensioner 
members from businesses that no longer participate in the schemes. 
The Company is therefore not able to identify its share of underlying 
assets and liabilities of the schemes on a reasonable and consistent 
basis and in accordance with the multi-employer exemption contained 
in FRS 1 7 , Retirement Benefits, the schemes have been accounted  
for as if they were defined contribution schemes. The charge to the 
profit and loss account therefore reflects payments for the year. 
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the 
profit and loss account in the period the contributions are payable. 
The Company also makes contributions for certain employees to 
individual personal pension and stakeholder schemes. Contributions are 
charged to the profit and loss account in the year to which they relate.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that 
have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where 
transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in 
the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the 
balance sheet date.
A net deferred tax asset is recognised as recoverable when, on the 
basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than 
not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future 
reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply 
in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to 
reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax  
has not been discounted.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets, comprising software, are stated at cost less 
accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. They are 
amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, 
which range from three to five years.
Tangible fixed assets
Fixed assets are initially recognised at cost and depreciated  
on a straight-line basis to their estimated residual values over  
their estimated useful lives, which range from three to six years. 
Investments in Group and other undertakings
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less any 
provision for impairment in value and include the fair value at the 
date of grant of share options awarded to employees of subsidiary 
undertakings, net of amounts recovered as management charges.
Other investments are stated at cost less any provision for 
impairment in value.
Provisions
A provision is recognised when the Company has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that 
settlement will be required of an amount that can be reliably estimated.
Share capital
Ordinary share capital is classified as equity. Financial liabilities and 
equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the 
contractual agreements entered into. An equity instrument is any 
contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the 
Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable  
on a specific date or at the option of the preference shareholders or 
if dividend payments are not discretionary. Dividends on preference 
share capital classified as liabilities are recognised in the profit and 
loss account as interest expense. 
Treasury shares
When ordinary share capital recognised as equity is acquired by the 
Company, the shares are held as treasury shares. The consideration 
paid, including commissions and taxes, is deducted from retained 
earnings and total shareholders’ equity.
 
Foreign currencies
The functional currency of the Company is sterling. Transactions in 
currencies other than the local currency are translated at the exchange 
rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in non-functional currencies are retranslated at the 
exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. Investments in 
subsidiary undertakings denominated in foreign currencies which are 
financed by foreign currency borrowings are translated at the year-end 
exchange rate. Investments denominated in foreign currencies not 
financed by foreign currency borrowings are translated at the rate  
of exchange ruling at the date of the original transaction.
All exchange differences arising are taken to the profit and loss account. 
In order to manage the Company’s exposure to certain foreign 
exchange risks, the Company enters into forward contracts and 
options which are accounted for as derivative financial instruments. 
129 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Parent Company Financial Statements
www.cobham.com
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 
The Company’s activities expose it to the financial risks  
of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.  
The Company uses foreign exchange contracts and interest rate 
swap contracts to reduce these exposures and does not use 
derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Other 
derivative financial instruments may be used from time to time  
to hedge other exposures such as inflation risks. 
The Company has documented its risk management objectives and 
strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions and utilises hedge 
accounting principles in relation to interest rate swaps. These are 
designated as cash flow hedges which mitigate the Company’s 
exposure to changes in interest rates arising on floating rate debt. 
Foreign exchange contracts entered into to mitigate foreign 
exchange impacts of trading in non-functional currencies and 
inflation swaps entered into to mitigate inflation risks are not 
accounted for using hedge accounting. 
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair  
value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are 
subsequently remeasured at their fair value. The method of 
recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the 
derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the 
nature of the item being hedged.
Where hedge accounting is applied, the relationship between 
hedging instruments and hedged items is documented at the 
inception of the transaction. The Company also documents its 
assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis,  
of whether the derivatives used in hedging transactions are highly 
effective in offsetting changes in cash flows (or fair values if 
appropriate) of hedged items.
Where interest rate swaps are designated and qualify as cash flow 
hedges, the effective portion of changes in fair values of derivatives 
that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised  
in reserves. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is 
recognised immediately in the profit and loss account. Amounts 
accumulated in reserves are recycled to the profit and loss account  
in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
When a cash flow hedging derivative expires or is sold, or when  
a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any 
cumulative gain or loss existing in reserves at that time remains in 
equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately 
recognised in the profit and loss account. If a hedged transaction  
is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss 
recognised in reserves is immediately transferred to the profit  
and loss account in that period.
The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a current asset  
or liability except when the remaining maturity of the hedged item  
is more than 12 months. 
Where hedge accounting is not applied, the movements in fair value  
of the derivative instruments are included in the profit and loss account. 
The fair value of such derivatives is classified as a current or non-current 
asset or liability dependent upon the maturity of the contracts. 
Other financial instruments 
Amounts receivable from and owed to subsidiaries are recognised at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method and are reduced 
by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs and subsequently held  
at amortised cost. Interest is accounted for on an accruals basis in 
the profit and loss account using the effective interest rate method 
and is added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent 
that the expenses are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Share based payments
For grants made to employees of Cobham plc under the Group’s 
share based payment schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value 
of options awarded as at the time of grant are charged to the profit 
and loss account over the vesting period. The vesting estimates are 
reviewed and updated at each balance sheet date; this includes 
progress against non-market related performance conditions.  
The fair value of options awarded to employees of subsidiary 
undertakings, net of amounts recovered as management charges,  
is recognised as a capital contribution and recorded in investments.
The valuation of the options utilises a methodology based on the 
Black-Scholes model, modified where required to allow for the 
impact of market related performance criteria and taking into 
account all non-vesting conditions.
2. Dividends
£m 2013 2012
Final dividend of 6.4 pence per share for 2012 (2011: 6.2 pence) 68.5  66.7 
Interim dividend of 2.64 pence per share for 2013 (2012: 2.4 pence)  28.1 25.8
Total dividend authorised and paid during the year 96.6 92.5
In addition to the above, the Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013 of 7.04 pence per 
share which will absorb an estimated £75.2m of shareholders’ funds. This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. If authorised, it will be paid on 30 May 2014 to shareholders who 
are on the register of members as at 2 May 2014. The total dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013 will therefore  
be 9.68 pence per share (2012: 8.8 pence). The total amount payable in respect of 2013 will be £103.3m.
130 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 3. Directors’ emoluments and pension costs
Disclosures in respect of Directors’ emoluments can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 63 of the Annual Report 
and Accounts.
Defined benefit pension schemes
The Company operates and participates in the Cobham Pension Plan (CPP) and the Cobham Executive Pension Plan (CEPP). The pension  
schemes are of the defined benefit type and assets are held in separate trustee administered funds. The funds are valued every three years by  
a professionally qualified independent actuary and the rates of contribution payable are determined by the actuary. The latest effective dates of 
the actuarial assessment of the CPP and CEPP were 1 April 2012 and 1 April 2013 respectively. The assessments were updated to 31 December 2013, 
at which date the total net liabilities of the schemes were assessed to be £81.7m. The Directors will continue to monitor the pension deficits and 
take advice from independent actuaries as appropriate. 
The schemes have been accounted for as if they were defined contribution schemes and the charge to the profit and loss account therefore 
reflects payments for the year.
Contributions to the Group schemes for 2013 were £0.3m (2012: £0.3m) of normal funding and £9.4m (2012: £9.3m) of deficit funding.  
No contributions were outstanding at the end of 2013 or 2012.
Defined contribution pension schemes
The Company also operates and participates in the Cobham plc money purchase pension arrangements. The assets of the schemes are held 
separately from those of the Company in independently administered funds. The pension cost charged represents contributions payable by 
the Company to the funds and amounted to £1.0m (2012: £0.7m). No contributions were outstanding at the end of 2013 or 2012.
4. Share based payments
Employees of Cobham plc participate in the following equity settled share based payment schemes which are operated by the Group for 
certain senior executives:
– The Cobham Performance Share Plan (PSP).
– The Cobham Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS).
– The Cobham Bonus Co-investment Plan (BCP).
Employees also participate in the Cobham Savings Related Share Option Scheme (ShareSave) operated by the Group, which is open to all  
UK employees. 
The Company recognised a total credit of £2.2m (2012: £2.9m expense) related to equity settled share based payment transactions during  
the year (excluding national insurance). This includes charges of £2.3m less a reversal of £4.5m of amounts charged in previous years due  
to the reassessment of assumptions during the year. As shown in note 5, investments in Group and other undertakings have been adjusted  
by £2.3m to reflect the value of options granted to employees of the Company’s subsidiaries, less amounts recharged during the year. 
At 31 December, the following awards were outstanding under each of the schemes:
Number of awards (thousands of shares) 2013 2012
PSP 3,821 4,265
ESOS 817 5,467
BCP 111 258
ShareSave 269 314
5,018 10,304
Further details of these schemes can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 50 and 51 and in note 28 to the Group 
Financial Statements on pages 118 and 119.
131 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Parent Company Financial Statements
www.cobham.com 5. Investments in Group and other undertakings
£m Shares Options Total
Cost and net book amount
At 1 January 2013 764.7 14.4 779.1
Options granted to employees of Group undertakings net of recoveries – (2.3) (2.3)
At 31 December 2013 764.7 12.1 776.8
In the opinion of the Directors the value of investments in subsidiary undertakings is not less than the aggregate amount at which they are 
shown above.
A list of significant subsidiaries is provided in note 34 to the Group Financial Statements. The market capitalisation of the Group as a whole  
is given in the Group Financial Record on page 136.
The Company has minority shareholdings in three companies in connection with the FSTA project and has issued loan notes during the year 
which are included in debtors in note 8. The total amount invested is £6.1m (2012: £44,000) and this is held as a trade investment. 
6. Intangible assets
£m Software
Cost 
At 1 January and 31 December 2013 0.8
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2013 0.6
Charge for the year 0.2
At 31 December 2013 0.8
Net book amount
At 31 December 2013 –
At 31 December 2012 0.2
7. Tangible fixed assets
£m
Plant, 
machinery,  
fixtures and 
fittings
Cost 
At 1 January 2013 1.0
Disposals (0.3)
At 31 December 2013 0.7
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2013 0.8
Charge for the year 0.1
Disposals (0.3)
At 31 December 2013 0.6
Net book amount
At 31 December 2013 0.1
At 31 December 2012 0.2
132 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 8. Debtors
£m 2013 2012
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 1,093.5 1,089.6
Corporation tax receivable – 4.4
Deferred tax 2.8 5.4
Loan notes 18.3 –
Prepayments and accrued income 4.3 7.8
1,118.9 1,107.2
Amounts owed by Group undertakings, excluding trading balances, are unsecured, interest bearing and repayable on demand. 
Loan notes were issued during the year in connection with the FSTA project. These accrue interest at LIBOR plus margin and are due  
for repayment in 2035.
The net deferred tax asset can be analysed as follows:
£m 2013 2012
Derivative financial instruments 1.3 2.2
Share based payments 1.0 1.9
Other timing differences 0.5 1.3
2.8 5.4
Movements in the net deferred tax asset are as follows:
£m 2013
At 1 January 2013 5.4
Charge to reserves (0.7)
Charge to profit and loss account (1.9)
At 31 December 2013 2.8
The deferred tax asset is considered recoverable on the basis that sufficient taxable profits will be available to utilise any tax losses that may arise.
9. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
£m Note 2013 2012
Bank overdrafts 143.2 116.6
Bank loans 296.4 292.3
Senior notes 46.2 –
Total borrowings 485.8 408.9
Trade creditors 1.9 3.2
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 125.8 115.5
Derivative financial instruments 12 8.8 10.0
Corporation tax payable 7.4 –
Other tax and social security 1.9 1.3
Accruals and deferred income 20.1 28.4
651.7 567.3
Details of the Company’s principal borrowing facilities are disclosed in note 19 to the Group Financial Statements.
Interest is charged on amounts owed to Group undertakings at rates varying between 0.4% and 9.0%. These amounts are unsecured  
and are repayable on demand. 
133 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Parent Company Financial Statements
www.cobham.com 10. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
£m Note 2013 2012
Bank loans 45.3 –
Senior notes 264.1 316.2
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 403.5 403.5
Derivative financial instruments 12 10.8 11.6
723.7 731.3
The bank loan due after more than one year is due for repayment by December 2016 at the latest. Senior notes falling due after more than 
one year mature as follows:
£m 2013 2012
Between one and two years – 47.1
Between two and five years 142.5 80.6
After five years, maturing in 2019 and 2020 121.6 188.5
264.1 316.2
Amounts owed to Group undertakings consist of frozen loans which are unsecured, interest free and not repayable within one year. 
11. Provisions for liabilities
Other provisions of £6.6m (2012: £6.6m) relate to longer term warranties given on divestments completed in 2005. All amounts have been 
determined based on the Directors’ current estimates of likely outcomes and the timing of any claims is uncertain. 
12. Derivative financial instruments
The fair values of derivative financial instruments are as follows:
£m
Interest rate 
swaps – cash 
flow hedges
Foreign 
exchange 
derivatives Inflation swap Total
Fixed assets – 15.2 2.9 18.1
Current assets – 7.8 0.5 8.3
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (0.5) (7.8) (0.5) (8.8)
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year (2.7) (5.2) (2.9) (10.8)
At 31 December 2013 (3.2) 10.0 – 6.8
Fixed assets – 11.4 2.8 14.2
Current assets – 5.3 0.5 5.8
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (3.5) (6.0) (0.5) (10.0)
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year (4.8) (4.0) (2.8) (11.6)
At 31 December 2012 (8.3) 6.7 – (1.6)
13. Called up share capital
£m 2013 2012
Allotted, issued and fully paid
Equity
1,154,527,625 (2012: 1,154,527,625) 2.5 pence Ordinary Shares 28.9 28.9
Non-equity
19,700 (2012: 19,700) 6% second cumulative Preference Shares of £1 – –
134 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued As at 31 December 2013, 85,680,533 (2012: 87,699,405) Ordinary Shares were held in treasury. This includes 9,728,809 (2012: 11,747,681) shares 
held in the Cobham Employee Benefit Trust. At 31 December 2013, the market value of treasury shares was £235.2m (2012: £193.6m), including 
shares with a market value of £26.7m (2012: £25.9m) held by the Cobham Employee Benefit Trust.
The Preference Shares which have been issued are classified as borrowings with a value of £19,700. Further details of the share capital of Cobham plc 
can be found in the Directors’ Report on page 64.
14. Reserves
Other reserves
£m
Share premium 
account
Special 
reserve
Hedge 
reserve
Share options 
reserve
Profit and loss 
account
At 1 January 2013 126.6 43.6 (6.3) 23.2 392.6
Profit for the financial year – – – – 108.1
Dividends – – – – (96.6)
Purchase of treasury shares – – – – (1.8)
Reclassifications to profit and loss account – – 4.5 – –
Tax effect of hedge reserve movements – – (0.7) – –
Share based payments recognised in reserves – – – (1.7) –
Transfer of share options reserve on exercise – – – (4.2) 4.2
At 31 December 2013 126.6 43.6 (2.5) 17.3 406.5
The profit and loss account includes the purchase of Ordinary Shares by the Cobham Employee Benefit Trust in connection with the PSP ,  
BCP , ESOS and ShareSave plans described in note 4, and the allocation of shares upon vesting of share awards and the exercise of options. 
Unallocated shares are held as treasury shares as described in note 13. During the year, 5,847,422 (2012: 12,598,162) shares were purchased  
and 7,866,294 (2012: 4,878,372) shares were allocated to employees. £15.3m (2012: £26.3m) was paid for these shares during the year and 
£13.5m (2012: £7.5m) was received following the exercise of share options. 
The special reserve was created in 1996, with the sanction of the High Court, against which goodwill arising on subsequent acquisitions may 
be charged.
The share options reserve relates to provisions made in accordance with FRS 20 for shares allocated to the Company’s employees under the 
Group’s share option schemes. Where share options which gave rise to charges under FRS 20 have been exercised, the appropriate proportion 
of the share options reserve is transferred to the profit and loss account in equity. 
The audit fee in respect of the Parent Company Financial Statements was £45,000 (2012: £44,000).
15. Contingent liabilities and commitments
The Company has contingent liabilities in respect of bank and contractual performance guarantees and other matters arising in the ordinary 
course of business entered into for, or on behalf of, certain Group undertakings. 
As the conditions of the above guarantees are currently being met, no obligating event is foreseeable and therefore no provision has been 
made at the year-end.
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 December 2013 (2012: £nil).
16. Related party transactions
The Directors of Cobham plc had no material transactions with the Company during the year, other than as a result of service agreements. 
Details of the Directors’ remuneration are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 63. 
Exemption has been taken under FRS 8 (revised) from disclosing related party transactions with wholly owned group companies. The only 
transactions with non-wholly owned subsidiaries relate to the receipt of management and brand charges totalling £1.1m (2012: £0.6m) from 
TEAM SA which is 98.7% owned. No amounts were outstanding at the current or prior year-end. 
17. Events after the balance sheet date
In February 2014, a loan agreement was signed for AUS$90m expiring in October 2018. 
135 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Parent Company Financial Statements
www.cobham.com £m 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Revenue 1,880.4 1,902.6 1,854.4 1,749.4 1,789.7
Underlying profit before taxation 295.3 306.1 327.9 300.2 288.0
Profit before taxation 244.9 189.3 234.3 204.0 126.6
Taxation (59.0) (36.5) (46.3) (32.2) (12.1)
Profit after taxation for the year 185.9 152.8 188.0 171.8 114.5
Net assets employed
Intangible assets 1,063.0 1,048.4 917.6 1,102.1 1,162.2
Property, plant and equipment (including investment properties) 329.5 350.9 329.8 315.5 360.7
Investments 17.4 17.2 16.1 15.8 3.1
Other non-current assets 69.0 31.2 36.3 60.3 43.3
Current assets 963.2 1,123.2 983.7 877.9 849.9
2,442.1 2,570.9 2,283.5 2,371.6 2,419.2
Current liabilities (903.7) (827.8) (749.0) (822.5) (871.2)
Non-current liabilities excluding retirement benefit obligations (474.9) (584.9) (444.2) (421.3) (416.5)
Net assets excluding retirement benefit obligations 1,063.5 1,158.2 1,090.3 1,127.8 1,131.5
Retirement benefit obligations (115.2) (82.0) (71.2) (73.4) (87.3)
Net assets including retirement benefit obligations 948.3 1,076.2 1,019.1 1,054.4 1,044.2
Financed by
Ordinary share capital 28.6 28.9 28.9 28.9 28.9
Reserves 919.4 1,046.9 989.7 1,024.9 1,014.5
Total equity attributable to the owners of the parent 948.0 1,075.8 1,018.6 1,053.8 1,043.4
Non-controlling interests in equity 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.8
Total equity 948.3 1,076.2 1,019.1 1,054.4 1,044.2
Net debt (412.6) (326.1) (232.5) (359.9) (453.4)
Operating cash flow 293.2 271.4 337.1 339.3 268.5
Operating cash conversion 89% 79% 95% 104% 85%
pence
Dividend paid per Ordinary Share 5.09 5.60 6.17 8.60 9.04
Earnings per Ordinary Share – underlying 18.80 19.68 22.05 22.48 21.60
Earnings per Ordinary Share – basic 16.26 13.27 16.80 15.98 10.70
Earnings per Ordinary Share – diluted 16.17 13.20 16.76 15.93 10.65
Net assets per Ordinary Share 82.7 93.2 88.3 91.3 90.4
£m
Market capitalisation as at 31 December 2,883 2,349 2,117 2,549 3,169
In the above table figures for 2012 have been restated, where appropriate, for the impact of IAS 19 described in note 2 to the Group Financial 
Statements. On the basis of materiality prior periods have not been restated. 
136 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Group Financial Record Analysis of shareholders
Analysis of ordinary shareholders on the register at 31 December 2013:
Size of holding
Number of  
registered holders
Percentage of  
registered holders
Number of  
Ordinary Shares held
Percentage of  
Ordinary Shares
Up to 1,000 1,603 30.46 795,057 0.07
1,001–10,000 2,555 48.56 9,171,660 0.85
10,001–50,000 630 11.97 13,152,411 1.22
50,001–250,000 221 4.20 25,416,043 2.36
250,001–1,000,000 123 2.34 64,936,774 6.02
1,000,001 and above 130 2.47 965,103,956 89.48
Total 5,262 100.00 1,078,575,901 100.00
Source: Equiniti Limited
At 31 December 2013, there were 5,262 ordinary shareholders on the register compared with 5,620 at 31 December 2012.
Registrars
Enquiries concerning shareholdings or dividends should, in the first 
instance, be addressed to the Company’s registrars, Equiniti Limited, 
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA 
(telephone: 0871 384 2163* or +44 (0)121 415 7047 if calling from 
outside the UK). Shareholders should promptly notify the registrars 
of any change of address or other particulars. 
The registrars provide a range of shareholders’ services online. The 
portfolio service provides access to information on investments including 
balance movements, indicative share prices and information on recent 
dividends and also enables address and mandate details to be amended 
online. For further information and practical help on transferring shares  
or updating your details, please visit www.shareview.co.uk. The  
share dealing service enables shares to be sold by UK shareholders by 
telephone, post or over the internet. For telephone sales, please call  
0845 603 7037 between 8am and 4:30pm, Monday to Friday. For postal 
sales, please send your completed documentation to the address above. 
For internet sales, please visit www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)
The registrars also offer an ISA for Cobham shareholders. Further 
information may be obtained by visiting www.shareview.co.uk, or 
telephone 0845 300 0430 (or +44 (0)121 415 0105 if calling from 
outside the UK).
You should bear in mind that investments, both their value and the 
income they provide, can go down as well as up and you might not 
get back what you originally invested.
Capital gains tax
For the information of shareholders who held Cobham plc 
Ordinary Shares on 31 March 1982, the market value, adjusted for 
capitalisation and rights issues, of the Company’s Ordinary Shares  
on that date for capital gains tax purposes, unadjusted for the share 
sub-division of July 2005, was 86.02 pence.
ShareGift
Do you have a small shareholding which is uneconomical to sell?  
You may want to consider donating it to ShareGift (registered  
charity no. 1052686), a charity that specialises in the donation of 
small, unwanted shareholdings to good causes. You can find out 
more by visiting www.sharegift.org or calling +44 (0)207 930 3737.
Shareholder security
Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers 
to buy shares, or offers of free reports about the Company. Details  
of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be 
included in Company mailings or on our website. If you receive any 
unsolicited advice, make sure you get the correct name of the person 
and organisation and check that they are appropriately authorised  
by the FCA by visiting www.fca.org.uk. You can also call the FCA 
Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 (or +44 (0)20 7066 1000  
if calling from outside the UK).
Financial calendar
AGM 24 April 2014
Final dividend – x-div date 30 April 2014
Final dividend – record date 2 May 2014
Final dividend  30 May 2014
Interim results 7 August 2014
Interim dividend – x-div date 9 October 2014
Interim dividend – record date 10 October 2014
Interim dividend 7 November 2014
Registered office
Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, England BH21 2BJ
Tel: +44 (0)1202 882020
Fax: +44 (0)1202 840523
Internet: www.cobham.com
Registered Number in England: 30470
*  Calls to this number cost 8 pence per minute, plus network charges. Lines are open 
from 8:30am to 5:30pm, Monday to Friday.
137 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.cobham.com
Other Information Shareholder Information Acronym Full name Description
A350 Airbus A350 XWB aircraft A twin-engine wide-body jet aircraft  
for commercial use. The aircraft is in 
development and had its first flight in 2013.
A400M Airbus A400M airlifter A versatile large military aircraft that performs 
three differing duties, within challenging 
operating conditions: short-medium range 
flights, long range flights and the ability  
to provide aerial refuelling capabilities. 
AESA Active Electronically Scanned Array radar Used to detect, target, track and enable 
self-protection capabilities. The radar is used 
for defence, surveillance and strike scenarios.
AMDR Air and Missile Defence Radar An advanced radar suite for US Navy destroyers. 
It provides protection against advanced 
anti-ship and ballistic missile threats.
AMRAAM Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missile A new generation of air-to-air missile with an 
all-weather, beyond-visual-range capability.
B717 Boeing 717 aircraft The B717 is a narrow-body aircraft designed 
for short-haul, high frequency commercial use. 
DAS Distributed Antenna Systems Fibre optic communication systems for 
infrastructure such as buildings, tunnels and 
metros. Covering a wide range of frequencies,  
it encompasses both public safety and cellular 
bands, providing coverage for network operators, 
transportation and public safety authorities.
ERP Enterprise Resource Planning A software system which integrates all business 
processes, including manufacturing, finance 
and accounting, human resources, sales and 
marketing, purchasing and distribution, and 
inventory and warehouse into one central 
cohesive repository. It allows businesses  
to run more efficiently, with real time access  
to data across many business functions.
Eurofighter Eurofighter Typhoon fighter aircraft A multi-role combat aircraft covering a full 
spectrum of air operations, from air policing, to 
peace support, through to high intensity conflict.
F-# USAF designated fighter aircraft Designation given by the US Air Force to aircraft 
designed for air-to-air combat or for multiple 
roles, including ground support missions.
FBH FB Heliservices The Group’s combined interests in FB Heliservices 
Limited, FB Leasing Limited and FBS Limited.
FSTA Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft A UK Private Finance Initiative funded project 
to replace the UK’s air-to-air refuelling fleets, 
and elements of the air transport work 
previously undertaken by the RAF VC10  
and TriStar fleets.
Global Xpress Inmarsat Global Xpress A satellite service, with global coverage expected 
by the end of 2014, which will be the world’s  
first to offer global mobile broadband coverage. 
Global Xpress will provide increased data speeds 
and bandwidth to customers in the government, 
maritime and aeronautical sectors.
Gripen Saab Gripen fighter aircraft A multi-role fighter aircraft capable of 
air-to-air combat, air-to-surface combat  
and reconnaissance roles.
IED Improvised Explosive Device Homemade bombs thought to be the weapon 
of choice for terrorists due to their availability 
and destructiveness.
KC-390 Embraer KC-390 Aerial Refuelling Tanker A medium-lift military transport and aerial 
refuelling tanker aircraft currently being 
developed by Embraer. Production is 
scheduled to commence in 2015.
138 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Glossary Acronym Full name Description
KC-46 Boeing KC-46 Aerial Refuelling Tanker An aerial refuelling tanker, currently being 
developed for the US Air Force to replace its 
ageing fleet of KC-135 Stratotankers. The KC-46, 
with initial flights scheduled for 2014, offers 
improved cargo and passenger capability.
Mi-17 Mi-17-1V multi-purpose medium helicopter A multi-purpose helicopter with the ability  
to carry passengers, stretchers or cargo. 
Minehound A hand-held device to detect metallic, 
minimum-metal and non-metallic threats 
underground. Used in the detection of 
improvised explosive devices and mines.
NH-90 NHIndustries NH-90 military helicopter A medium lift, multi-role military helicopter 
developed from NATO requirements. Used for 
troop and cargo transport, casualty evacuation, 
search and rescue and anti-submarine hunting.
SATCOM Satellite Communication Enables voice and data communications such 
as telephone calls, TV pictures or internet 
connections, using an orbiting satellite to 
transfer data around the earth.
SIGINT Signals Intelligence Intelligence gathering using electronic signals 
and systems such as radars, communications 
and weapons systems. 
Super Puma Airbus Super Puma Helicopter Designed to operate in extreme environments, 
a medium-large helicopter capable of carrying 
heavy objects and passengers.
UAV Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Unmanned aircraft that generally carry 
cameras, sensors, communications equipment 
or other payloads. They are used in 
reconnaissance and intelligence gathering 
roles with more challenging roles envisioned, 
including combat missions.
 WGS Wideband Global Satellite Programme The US Department of Defense’s highest-
capacity satellite communications system.  
It supports requirements such as tactical 
command and control, battle management, 
reconnaissance, intelligence, surveillance  
and combat support.
139 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Other Information
www.cobham.com
Glossary continued Further financial definitions
The following notes apply throughout the Annual Report and Accounts: 
To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group has 
included within its published financial statements trading profit and 
underlying earnings results. Trading profit has been defined as 
operating profit from continuing operations excluding the impacts  
of certain M&A related costs and business restructuring costs as 
detailed below. Also excluded are changes in the marking to market  
of non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments, impairments 
of intangible assets, and items deemed by the Directors to be of an 
exceptional nature. 
M&A related costs excluded from trading profit and underlying 
earnings include the amortisation of intangible assets recognised on 
acquisition and the writing off of the pre-acquisition profit element  
of inventory written up on acquisition. M&A related costs also include 
other direct costs associated with business combinations, adjustments 
to contingent consideration related to previously acquired businesses 
and direct costs from terminated divestments. 
Business restructuring costs or gains associated with the 
restructuring of the Group’s portfolio which are incremental  
to normal operations. 
Underlying earnings are defined as trading profit less net underlying 
finance costs, which excludes the unwinding of acquisition related 
discounting, and after deducting associated taxation and non-
controlling interests.
A reconciliation of operating profit and profit before taxation  
to the respective underlying numbers is shown on page 24. 
Operating cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities 
before payment of tax, interest, restructuring costs and M&A related 
costs but after cash flows from the purchase or disposal of property, 
plant, equipment and intangible assets. 
Free cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities plus 
dividends received from joint ventures, less cash flows related to the 
purchase or disposal of property, plant, equipment and intangible 
assets but excluding payments relating to M&A related activities.
Net debt is defined as the net of borrowings less cash and cash 
equivalents at the balance sheet date. 
When providing divisional analysis by geography, US revenue 
includes revenue to US based customers on programmes that  
could be designated as export and is therefore non-US defence/
security from a market analysis perspective.
KPI definitions
Group organic revenue growth
Revenue growth stated at constant translation exchange rates, 
excluding the incremental effect of acquisitions and disposals.
Underlying EPS growth at constant translation exchange rates
The year on year increase of the underlying profit after taxation, 
stated at constant translation exchange rates, divided by the 
weighted average number of Ordinary Shares.
Operating cash conversion
Operating cash flow as a percentage of trading profit, excluding 
profit from joint ventures.
Return on invested capital
Trading profit as a percentage of the average invested capital  
during the year.
Invested capital comprises net assets adjusted to exclude net debt, 
retirement benefit obligations, derivative financial instruments, current 
and deferred tax, provisions and other financial assets. Intangible assets 
recognised on business combinations are grossed up to their original 
cost before amortisation and an adjustment is also made to reinstate 
the historic goodwill previously written off directly to reserves.
PV investment
PV (Private Venture) or company funded R&D (Research and 
Development) measures exclude Aviation Services, where there  
is no R&D activity.
Staff safety – major accident incident rate
The number of accidents resulting in more than three days absence 
per 100,000 employees.
Voluntary staff turnover
The number of voluntary leavers divided by the average number  
of employees over the period, excluding employees who became 
redundant, were dismissed or retired. 
140 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Definitions Cobham protects lives and livelihoods with its 
differentiated technology and know-how, operating  
with a deep insight to customer needs and agility.  
The Group offers an innovative range of technologies 
and services to solve challenging problems across 
commercial, defence and security markets, from  
deep space to the depths of the ocean. 
It has market leading positions in air-to-air refuelling; 
aviation services; audio, video and data communications, 
including satellite communications; defence electronics; 
life support; and mission equipment.
The most important thing Cobham builds is trust.
Front cover image
Cobham’s Distributed Antenna Systems (DAS)  
technology and wireless solutions for the public  
safety and cellular markets ensure that buildings  
and critical infrastructure have a fail-safe public  
safety communications system of the highest  
standard. The Burj Khalifa, Dubai, is one of the  
many pieces of infrastructure globally that  
benefit from Cobham’s DAS technology.
Inside front cover image
Cobham provides governments globally with fixed  
and rotary wing services, including helicopter training, 
search and rescue, logistics and emergency  
medical services.
www.cobham.com
Our website provides further information including shareholder  
services and governance, details of our products and services,  
corporate responsibility and sustainability and more.
Investor information and share price performance
www.cobhaminvestors.com
Products and service offerings
www.cobham.com/products-and-services
Corporate responsibility and sustainability
www.cobhamsustainability.com
Find More Online
Designed and produced by: 
Addison Group 
www.addison-group.net
Printed by:  
Park Communications on  
FSC
®
 certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company  
and its Environmental Management 
System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable  
oil based, 95% of press chemicals are 
recycled for further use and, on 
average, 99% of any waste associated 
with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on  
Amadeus coated 50 silk, a paper 
containing 50% recycled fibre  
(25% post consumer and 25%  
pre consumer) and 50% virgin  
fibre sourced from well managed,  
responsible, FSC
®
 certified forests.  
The pulp used in this product is 
bleached using an elemental  
chlorine free (ECF) process.
When you have finished with  
this report, please pass it on to  
other interested parties or  
remove the cover and dispose  
of it in your recycled paper waste. Cobham plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
The most important thing we build is trust
www.cobham.com Cobham plc
The most important thing we build is trust
Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, BH21 2BJ, England
T: +44 (0)1202 882020
F: +44 (0)1202 840523
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 3 www.cobham.com Cobham protects lives and livelihoods with its 
differentiated technology and know-how, operating  
with a deep insight to customer needs and agility.  
The Group offers an innovative range of technologies 
and services to solve challenging problems across 
commercial, defence and security markets, from  
deep space to the depths of the ocean. 
It has market leading positions in air-to-air refuelling; 
aviation services; audio, video and data communications, 
including satellite communications; defence electronics; 
life support; and mission equipment.
The most important thing Cobham builds is trust.
Front cover image
Cobham’s Distributed Antenna Systems (DAS)  
technology and wireless solutions for the public  
safety and cellular markets ensure that buildings  
and critical infrastructure have a fail-safe public  
safety communications system of the highest  
standard. The Burj Khalifa, Dubai, is one of the  
many pieces of infrastructure globally that  
benefit from Cobham’s DAS technology.
Inside front cover image
Cobham provides governments globally with fixed  
and rotary wing services, including helicopter training, 
search and rescue, logistics and emergency  
medical services.
www.cobham.com
Our website provides further information including shareholder  
services and governance, details of our products and services,  
corporate responsibility and sustainability and more.
Investor information and share price performance
www.cobhaminvestors.com
Products and service offerings
www.cobham.com/products-and-services
Corporate responsibility and sustainability
www.cobhamsustainability.com
Find More Online
Designed and produced by: 
Addison Group 
www.addison-group.net
Printed by:  
Park Communications on  
FSC
®
 certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company  
and its Environmental Management 
System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable  
oil based, 95% of press chemicals are 
recycled for further use and, on 
average, 99% of any waste associated 
with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on  
Amadeus coated 50 silk, a paper 
containing 50% recycled fibre  
(25% post consumer and 25%  
pre consumer) and 50% virgin  
fibre sourced from well managed,  
responsible, FSC
®
 certified forests.  
The pulp used in this product is 
bleached using an elemental  
chlorine free (ECF) process.
When you have finished with  
this report, please pass it on to  
other interested parties or  
remove the cover and dispose  
of it in your recycled paper waste.
