 05
Annual Report and Accounts
2005 Contents
1 Financial Highlights
2 Chairman’s Statement
3 Chief Executive’s Report
6 Financial Review
8 Directors’ Responsibilities
9 The Management Team
10 Directors’ Report
13 Corporate Governance
17 Report by the Board on Directors’ Remuneration
23 Environmental Policy Statement
24 Consolidated Income Statement
25 Consolidated Balance Sheet
26 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
27 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
28 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
78 Report of the Auditors on the Consolidated Financial Statements
79 Company Balance Sheet
80 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders’ Funds
81 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
94 Report of the Auditors on the Company Financial Statements
95 Shareholder Information
96 Summary Notice of Annual General Meeting
97 Contact Details
Communisis plc Contents Financial Highlights
1
Financial Highlights Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Turnover from continuing businesses of £264.8m (2004: £269.7m) 
Profit from operations before exceptional restructuring costs of £15.1m
(2004: £15.3m). Profit from operations of continuing businesses was
£7.2m (2004: £8.5m)
Profit before tax from continuing operations was £4.1m (2004: £6.2m)
after restructuring costs of £7.9m (2004: £6.8m)
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders was £2.6m
(2004: loss of £6.7m)
Net debt at 31 December 2005 was £36.0m (2004: £27.6m) following
an additional pension contribution
Dividend up 10% – proposed final dividend of 3.897p per share taking
proposed full year dividend to 5.85p (2004: 5.324p) per share 
Initial £5m share buy-back programme The Communisis Timeline
(2000)
Mansfield buys 
Waddington PLC 
for £323m
Mansfield buys Rexam 
Printing for £85m
Mansfield rebrands 
as Communisis
Communisis disposal 
programme – £220m
Strategy to develop 
contractual business 
with major customers
(2001)
Review of print management 
and transactional/statementing 
markets for contractual growth
(2002)
Communisis buys 
Centurion for £42m
Communisis buys 
Logistics Leicester
Communisis signs 
£250m, 5 year 
strategic contract 
with Barclays
Chairman’s Statement
2
Communisis plc Chairman’s Statement
2005 has been an eventful year for Communisis. Short term
results have been under pressure through the continued
weakness in the UK printing industry. Price pressure
intensified at a time of increased costs, caused in part by
falling demand in key market segments. 
We firmly believe, however, that the outlook for Communisis
remains exciting and in the year we made strategic progress
in those market sectors we have declared to be of
increasing importance to the business. In particular we
strengthened our position as the leading provider of printed
products and services to financial institutions by acquiring
HSBC’s UK bank statement production business and
signing a 10 year statement outsourcing contract.
Perhaps not surprisingly, given our longer term prospects,
there have been persistent rumours of outside interest from
buyers for all or part of Communisis. To bring this to a head
the Board instigated a strategic review with the help of our
financial advisers. This review not only assessed our own
competitive position but also the prospects for co-operating
with third parties including becoming part of a larger group.
We made contact with many identified potential buyers but
nothing materialised on a basis that was acceptable to your
Board. 
Now that the process has ended and with it the inevitable
uncertainty for both employees and customers, we feel
freshly energised to continue to take the Company forward.
Morale is high and we believe that we can show meaningful
progress in 2006.
Mike Smith
Chairman (2003)
Communisis forms
Wakefield Holdings
Print management
extended to
Continental Europe
Significant focus to
acquire transactional print/
statementing business
(2004)
Communisis completes 
non-core disposal
programme
Communisis buys 
Dataform for £22m
Organisation change
announced to
to facilitate growth
(2005)
Rebranding to support 
organisation change
Communisis agrees
£250m, 10 year
statement outsourcing
deal with HSBC
Chief Executive’s Report
3
Chief Executive’s Report Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Results for 2005
Communisis continued its progress in developing
contractual business with major financial institutions in 2005.
In particular, Print Management and Transactional Print
business sectors benefited from the HBOS 5 year, £60
million deal and will benefit in 2006 from the HSBC 10 year,
£250 million deal.
In the year ended 31 December 2005 turnover from
continuing businesses fell marginally to £264.8 million (2004:
£269.7 million) despite 10% growth in the Print
Management sector. Operating profit from continuing
businesses, before restructuring costs, was £15.1 million
(2004: £15.3 million). Profit before tax from continuing
operations, after the loss on the sale of Datadocs and
restructuring costs combined (£7.9 million), was £4.1 million
(2004: £6.2 million) with adjusted earnings per share of
6.31p* (2004: 7.68p). After results from discontinued
operations the profit for the year was £2.6 million (2004:
loss of £6.7 million). Net debt increased in 2005 to £36.0
million including one-off payments for the Barclays contract
extension and the payment into the pension fund totalling
£13 million.
Dividends
The Board proposes to increase the final dividend by 10%.
This will take the full year dividend to 5.850p (2004: 5.324p)
including a proposed final dividend of 3.897p. Going forward
it is the Board’s intention to hold this level of dividend whilst
commencing an initial £5 million share buy-back
programme. The programme will be within the Board’s
approval level to buy back up to 15% of the Company’s
shares.
Dividends will be paid, subject to shareholders’ approval, on
28 April 2006 to shareholders on the register at the close of
business on 7 April 2006.
Transformation
Since its inception in 2000, Communisis, formed through
the acquisitions of Waddington PLC and Rexam PLC’s
printing division, has been developing a new base of
contract print business, principally with the leading UK
financial institutions.
During this period an extensive disposal and restructuring
programme has taken Communisis out of print manufacture
in the USA, Canada, France, Belgium, Holland and
Luxembourg as well as consolidating remaining business
stationery operations in the UK. 
At the same time Communisis also built its position to be the
leading supplier of cheque books in the UK, with three
dedicated production facilities and 100% share with HSBC,
RBS, Lloyds TSB, Barclays and HBOS. 
Entirely new contract business has been added in Print
Management and Transactional Print both by acquisition
and through organic growth. The annualised turnover of this
new business is £200 million with major contracts won with
Barclays, HSBC, HBOS and Sainsbury’s.
Communisis has had to absorb extensive restructuring
costs and selling price declines for its manufactured
products over this period; this has held back profit
improvement despite the new sales growth. Excess
capacity remains in UK print manufacturing and prices
continue to be under pressure. 
Communisis has closely managed its cashflow during this
period. Net debt at the beginning of 2000 was £240 million
and at the end of 2005 was £36.0 million. In 2000 there was
a small actuarial pension surplus that was off balance sheet.
At the end of 2005 the IFRS pension deficit, on balance
sheet, was £37.7 million. Your Board continues to look at
the most efficient way to eliminate this deficit in liaison with
the Trustees of the pension fund.
Following an extensive strategic review in 2005 your Board
concluded that Communisis should complete the
transformation it began back in 2000. We are committed to
this course and see exciting and profitable opportunities
ahead. We have excellent customer positions, especially
with the major UK banks. We manage the largest print
management contract in Europe with Barclays, deploying
our c-store software and integrated logistics operations.
We are leaders in the key strategic products of cheques
and now, statements, with the HSBC 10 year outsourcing
deal. Chief Executive’s Report (continued)
4
Communisis plc Chief Executive’s Report
Business Review 
Print Management Services 
Communisis Print Management Services made further
progress in the year with turnover up 10% and profits
improving by £1.1 million to £5.7 million. This performance
was helped by the acquisition of Dataform in September
2004 which added significantly to our operational print and
logistics capability.
During the year we launched a consolidation programme of
our UK Print Management business. This is designed to
enable us to serve all our customers from a single IT
platform base in the North East, and at significantly lower
cost.
Contract renewals in the year were achieved with the Post
Office and Coors. In Europe we made further progress and
opened Axa and Disney accounts in France; small to begin
with but offering growth opportunities across Europe.
New business wins included the Department for Work and
Pensions, RBS and Lloyds TSB but the highlight was the 5
year, £60 million deal with HBOS for the provision of direct
mail and security printing services. The deal includes the
roll out of Communisis’ document management software, 
c-store.
Barclays remains our largest contract, continuing to run at
over £56 million turnover annually. In the year we paid £3
million to extend the contract until 2010 and also to access
potential additional turnover; this includes working with the
bank on international business.
Print Management in the UK continues to offer growth
opportunities but at the smaller contract end there are
now too many competitors and pricing has become
commoditised. Communisis is targeting the larger contracts
that require management of the entire document process,
utilising c-store and our logistics capability as well as world-
class procurement. Here there are fewer competitors and
our focus on the major banks distinguishes our offer.
It is essential that we continually develop our procurement
capability especially in the areas of paper and print
purchasing. We are extending the supplier base across
Central Europe and the Far East, and we continue to
develop our e-procurement tools with dedicated IT support
and investment.
Communisis will look to win the bigger contracts that require
management of the customers’ end-to-end document
process; marketing campaigns through our c-store
software; operational print and logistics and data-critical
regulatory customer communications.
Print & Direct Mail Services 
Turnover in Print and Direct Mail Services fell 10% in the year
due in the main to continued, significant pricing pressure.
Despite the drive for efficiency improvements at each of our
locations, profitability was inevitably affected, reducing by
£2.9 million in the year to £7.2 million.
In Direct Mail we are the leading manufacturer predominantly
serving the financial sector of the direct mail market. This
market sector has deteriorated over the past 24 months in
particular; as a consequence of a combination of reduced
credit card mailings and highly competitive pricing. We are
continually looking to optimise performance against this
difficult trading background.
In the first half year we exited the remaining European
Business Forms manufacturing leaving us with a single, well-
invested UK facility. Communisis’ inter-company work also
Turnover
£’million
2004 2005
148.9
135.8
Operating Profit*
£’million
2004 2005
5.7
4.6
Turnover
£’million
2004 2005
125.5
139.3
Operating Profit*
£’million
2004 2005
7.2
10.1 Chief Executive’s Report (continued)
5
Chief Executive’s Report Annual Report and Accounts 2005
supports this business which has also faced extreme
pricing pressure over the past 12 months, particularly driven
by e-auction processes. The business will benefit from cost
efficiency programmes in 2006 and growth in statement
base stock printing; recent wins being RBS and the HSBC
outsourcing deal.
Transactional Print Services
Despite the 10% decline in turnover Transactional Print
Services, which has to date comprised Communisis’
personalised cheque book business, increased its profits.
The normal annual decline in cheques is about 6% but it
remains a strategic product for our customers. It is
important to restate that we have 100% of the personalised
cheque business for the top five banks; HSBC, RBS, Lloyds
TSB, Barclays and HBOS. In the year we achieved a
significant breakthrough winning the Allied Irish Bank’s
cheques business in Ireland. This opens the door to further
business with the bank.
Communisis’ position with the banks is helpful in developing
new business. The 10 year, £250 million HSBC statement
outsourcing deal is groundbreaking in the UK. With effect
from 16 January 2006 we have taken over 255 staff in three
locations and have committed to building a world-class
statementing facility to be ready second quarter 2007. This
will not only house all of HSBC but also other statementing
business. We are actively pursuing the next opportunities.
This business sector offers Communisis attractive turnover
and profits growth potential.
The Board
The composition of the Board has remained unchanged
during 2005.
People
Communisis continues its training and development strategy
despite the difficult background trading environment. Our
people distinguish the Company from its competitors and
are responsible for managing the most prestigious contracts
in the industry; Barclays, HSBC, HBOS and Sainsbury’s.
We continue our training programmes; Cranfield
Business Leaders, Communisis “bespoked” Management
Development and Customer Service Relationship
Management.
This approach, we believe, makes Communisis attractive to
the best people in the industry.
Outlook
We are well positioned to see progress this year, despite the
challenging industry conditions.
We have a strong pipeline of growth opportunities,
importantly the majority being with our existing customer
base. 
The HSBC outsourcing deal is a breakthrough for the
Company in our focus to partner with major customers. 
David Jones
Chief Executive
Turnover
£’million
2004 2005
27.1
30.4
Operating Profit*
£’million
2004 2005
5.4
4.7
*Before exceptional restructuring costs  Financial Review
6
Communisis plc Financial Review
Financial Review
This is the first annual report that the Group has presented
in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS). Note 35 to the financial statements
provides a reconciliation between the results previously
reported under UK GAAP and the comparative information
presented this year. All of the commentary that follows is,
unless stated, reported in accordance with IFRS. 
Revenue
Revenue for continuing operations was down 2% at £264.8
million with the full year benefit of the Dataform acquisition
and the impact of new business which commenced in Print
Management in the second half being offset by the impact
of the disposal of the Datadocs operation in the first half, the
weakness in the Print and Direct Mail markets and the on-
going decline in the cheque book business. 
Earnings
Reported profit from operations was £7.2 million (2004: £8.5
million). This decline reflects principally the higher level of
restructuring costs incurred this year as indicated by the
following table:
£m £m
2005 2004
Adjusted profit from operations 15.1 15.3
Restructuring costs (1.6) (6.8)
Corporate transaction costs (1.4) –
Loss on sale of Datadocs (4.9) –
Profit from operations 7.2 8.5
The 2005 restructuring costs were incurred principally in the
first half in connection with the restructuring of our sales
organisation and our Transactional Print business. However,
we did commence the consolidation of support functions for
the Print Management business into a single location in the
North East in the second half at a cost of £0.3 million, which
is included above. This project will continue into 2006 and
we anticipate further restructuring costs of £1.0 million in
2006 and an associated capital spend of £0.9 million. These
amounts are in line with the estimates provided in
September 2005.
The Corporate transaction costs were incurred during 2005
in connection with the possible offer for the Company
following preliminary discussions. These discussions ended
in January 2006 and it is anticipated that there will be a
further £0.4 million of costs in 2006 in connection with
concluding these talks.
The 2004 restructuring costs related to restructuring the
European forms business. The loss on sale of the remaining
European forms business (Datadocs) was recognised in
2005 following its disposal in May 2005.
Net finance costs (including the non-cash finance pension
charge) rose to £3.1 million (2004: £2.3 million) reflecting the
higher debt levels following the Dataform acquisition and the
incremental £10.0 million cash injection into the pension
fund in March 2005.
Income tax expense increased during the year to £2.0
million (2004: £1.2 million) despite the decline in profit before
tax to £4.1 million (2004: £6.2 million). This is attributable to
the greater proportion of non-deductible losses in 2005. The
effective tax rate in 2005 for continuing businesses was
33.2% (2004: 32.7%) with the increase attributable to the
unrelieved losses from the European Print Management
business. We would anticipate this rate declining slightly
in 2006. 
Reported earnings per share from continuing operations
reflect the higher interest cost and tax expense and were
consequently lower at 1.45 pence (2004: 3.49 pence)
However, earnings attributable to equity holders improved
significantly to 1.81 pence (2004: loss of 4.69 pence) as a
consequence of the small contribution from discontinued
operations. 
Cashflow and Net Debt
The Group continues to be cash generative although net
debt increased in the year to £36.0 million (2004: 27.6
million). Cash generated from operations decreased to £6.4
million (2004: £18.3 million) due principally to the £10.0
million one-off cash injection into the pension fund in the first
half and the £3.0 million payment in the second half to
secure the Barclays contract extension. Excluding these
items working capital increased by £4.7 million which was
offset by a lower outflow in respect of discontinued
operations. Gross capital expenditure in the year was
significantly lower at £4.4 million (2004: £8.4 million)
reflecting the reducing manufacturing intensity of the
Group’s profile. This was financed through cash proceeds
from asset disposals of £4.0 million (2004: £1.6 million), the
majority of which related to businesses that were
discontinued in 2004. Free cash flow (defined as net cash
flow from operating activities less net capital expenditure)
was £0.5 million (2004: £5.0 million). Financial Review (continued)
7
Financial Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Treasury Management
The Group operates a centralised approach to the
management of the Group’s debt, liquid resources and
interest rate risk. During the year the Group entered into a
new four year £10.0 million committed facility to finance the
pension contribution. Subsequent to year-end, this facility
was increased by a further £9.0 million as part of a review to
ensure that the Group has adequate committed bank
facilities to support the anticipated funding requirements of
the Group and with an appropriate maturity profile. At year-
end, the Group’s gross debt was £45.8 million (2004: £40.6
million). The Group also maintains uncommitted facilities of
£31.0 million to support working capital requirements over
the year.
The Group’s facilities all carry interest rates which are based
on LIBOR and therefore the Group is exposed to interest
rate movements. The Board continues to monitor whether it
can economically reduce its exposure to interest rate
movements. The impact of a 1% increase in interest rates
would reduce profits by approximately £0.4 million. 
Pension Funding
The Group has recently completed an actuarial valuation of
the UK pension fund. This indicates a significant
improvement in the position of the fund on an actuarial basis
when compared to the last valuation three years ago. The
actuarial deficit at the valuation date (September 30 2005)
was £4.5 million compared to the deficit of £24.8 million
three years ago. This reflects the benefit of the incremental
contributions made over the three years as well as
significantly better equity returns compared with the
preceding three year period. These benefits were partly
offset by changes in assumption (including mortality) which
caused the deficit to increase by £8.0 million.
At the year-end, the gross pension deficit under IFRS
included on the Group’s balance sheet was £37.7 million
(2004: £42.7 million). This reduction would have been
greater following the additional £10.0 million injection, but
during the year there was a significant reduction in the
discount rate used from 5.4% to 4.8% and this change,
combined with other assumption changes, caused the
liability to increase by £14.4 million. We are currently in
discussion with the fund’s Trustees regarding the required
contribution rate for the Plan going forward. The factors
influencing these discussions include the on-going
affordability of this benefit and the guidance issued by the
Pensions Regulator, amongst others. 
Mark Whiteling
Finance Director Directors’ Responsibilities
8
Communisis plc Directors’ Responsibilities
United Kingdom company law requires the directors to
prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the
Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Company and the Group have
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for
the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
In preparing the accounts, the directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently; make judgements and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent; and state whether applicable
accounting standards have been followed, subject to any
material departures disclosed and explained in the
accounts.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any
time the financial position of the Company and Group and
enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the
Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and
hence for taking any reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
In addition, the directors are responsible for the preparation
of the Report by the Board on Directors’ Remuneration in
accordance with the relevant legislation and other
requirements. The Management Team
The Management Team Annual Report and Accounts 2005
9
David Jones
Chief Executive*
Mark Whiteling
Finance Director*
Denise Moran
Executive Director* 
Tony Commons
Group Human Resources Director
Mark Cornford
Group Operations Director
David Monks
Group Strategic Development
Director
Paul Simpson
Managing Director, Print Management
Services UK
Simon Tate
Managing Director, Print Management
Services Europe
John Wells
Group Commercial Director
Martin Young
Company Secretary
* Main Board Director
Executive Management Committee
The Executive Management Committee (‘EMC’) is the operating board of Communisis plc. It complements the
role of the plc board. The EMC comprises the following key people from across the Communisis Group:
Board of Directors
Michael Smith*
Chairman
Age 59
Appointed to the Board as Chairman
in April 2003. Chairman of the
Nominations Committee and a member
of the Audit and Remuneration
Committees. He was Chief Executive of
The Rank Group PLC, a position he
held from April 1999 until March 2006.
Formerly a director of Hilton Group PLC.
David Jones
Chief Executive
Age 55
Appointed to the Board of John
Mansfield Group plc in 1998 and
became Chief Executive in the same
year. He has previously been Chief
Executive of Rexam Octagon and
Rexam Containers, members of
Rexam plc.
Mark Whiteling
Finance Director
Age 42
Appointed to the Board of Communisis
plc in November 2004 as Finance
Director. Formerly Group Finance
Director of Tibbett & Britten Group PLC.
Denise Moran
Executive Director
Age 43
Appointed to the Board of Communisis
plc in July 2004. Joined Waddington
plc's specialist printing facility, Chorleys,
in 1989 and was appointed to the
Executive Management Committee of
Communisis plc in 2000 following its
acquisition of Waddington plc.
Roger Jennings*
Age 56
Appointed to the Board in June 2002.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and a
member of the Remuneration and
Nominations Committees. Has previously
held a number of senior management
appointments in consumer product
companies and international consultancy,
including Chief Executive of Austin Reed
Group PLC. He was appointed Managing
Director of SevenOaks Sound & Vision
Limited in November 2005.
Michael Firth*
Age 63
Appointed to the Board in December
2002. Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee and a member of the Audit
and Nominations Committees. Also a
non-executive director of Network Rail
Limited and First Technology PLC;
formerly a non-executive director of
Somerfield plc. Retired in 2002 from his
role of Head of Corporate Banking at
HSBC Bank plc.
* Non-executive Directors’ Report
10
Communisis plc Directors’ Report
The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the
Group, together with the accounts and independent
auditors’ report, for the year ended 31 December 2005.
A review of the performance in the year, of the position at the
year-end and of future developments is given in the
Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Report and in
the Financial Review.
Principal Activities
The principal activity of the Group during the year under
review was to provide print management services together
with the manufacture of printed products for direct
marketing (such as direct mail), forms, stationery and critical
transactional products (such as statements and cheques).
Our technology platforms have played a key part in enabling
clients to streamline business processes in order to increase
efficiency and improve speed to market.
Results and Dividends
The results for the year and the transfer to retained profits
are shown on page 24 and in Note 32 to the accounts. An
interim dividend of 1.953p per ordinary share was paid in the
financial year ended 31 December 2005. The directors are
proposing a final dividend of 3.897p per ordinary share,
taking the proposed full year dividend to 5.85p per share
(2004: 5.324p). The final dividend is payable on 28 April
2006 to shareholders on the register at close of business on
7 April 2006. This will be put to the shareholders at the
Annual General Meeting on 21 April 2006. 
Directors
Brief biographical details of the present directors are shown
on page 9.
The directors who served during the year are shown below: 
M E Smith (Non-Executive Chairman)
D E A Jones (Chief Executive)
M G Firth (Non-Executive)
R W Jennings (Non-Executive)
D Moran (Director)
M A Whiteling (Finance Director)
Additional information relating to directors’ remuneration,
service contracts and interests in the share capital of the
Company is given in the Remuneration Report on pages
17 to 22.
The directors retiring by rotation under Article 92 of the
Company’s Articles of Association are Mr M G Firth and
Mr M E Smith who, being eligible, offer themselves for
re-election. 
Review of the Business and
Developments
Details of the Group’s portfolio of businesses and comment
on future developments are set out in the Chairman’s
Statement and Chief Executive’s Report.
The activities of the Group are directed under a single
operating company, Communisis UK Limited, comprising
three separate divisions: Print Management Services, Print
and Direct Mail Services and Transactional Print Services.
This clearly demonstrates to customers and suppliers the
nature of the businesses and the close alignment between
them. In addition, the re-branding of the Communisis name
during 2005 provides a powerful and clearly identifiable
brand in a competitive market place. Communisis Dataform
Limited, the business acquired in September 2004, is part of
the Print Management Services division, but has retained its
separate legal status.
On 12 May 2005 Communisis announced the sale of its
Netherlands-based European manufacturing operation
which comprised a manufacturing facility in The Netherlands
and sales offices in Belgium and Luxembourg and all related
staff. The decision to sell this operation followed a
period of intense management effort to improve operating
performance; however, the financial results remained
unacceptable.
In September 2005 Communisis announced on-going
negotiations with HSBC Bank plc to acquire the Bank’s
statement production business and to enter into a 10-year
outsourcing agreement. The contract was signed on 14
January 2006 and the value of the contract is estimated at
£250 million over the 10 year period. HSBC staff involved in
statement production transferred to Communisis on 16
January 2006. 
In September 2005 Communisis successfully negotiated
with Barclays Bank PLC a three year extension to our
existing five year contract.
Research and Development
Expenditure on research and development in the year was
£1,114,000 (2004: £960,000). This represents the Group’s
product development expenditure and is separately
disclosed in Note 5.6 to the accounts. Directors’ Report (continued)
11
Directors’ Report Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Tangible Assets
Details of the movements in tangible fixed assets are given
in Note 13 to the accounts.
The directors are of the opinion that any difference between
the book value and the market value of the Group’s land and
buildings is not significant.
Share Capital
Movements in the authorised, allotted and fully paid share
capital are set out in Note 22 to the accounts.
Purchase of Own Shares
The directors will be asking shareholders to renew
the authority granted to them at last year’s AGM to purchase
the Company’s own shares. Further details of this resolution
are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting,
enclosed with this Report.
Share Option Schemes
Further options were granted during the year under the
Group’s share option schemes. Details of the options
outstanding at the year end are given in Note 16 to the
accounts. 
Corporate Social Responsibility
For Communisis, corporate social responsibility (‘CSR’)
involves the integration of its financial and strategic goals
with: (i) the health, safety and wellbeing of our employees
and their local communities, (ii) a focus on improving our
environmental performance and (iii) conducting our business
with honesty and integrity.
The internal control procedures described on pages 15 and
16 also apply to CSR. Regular risk review reports are
presented to the Board and Executive Management
Committee, and CSR is considered as appropriate in those
reports. The risks and opportunities relating to CSR primarily
revolve around the reputation of the Group. The processes
for identifying, evaluating and managing these risks have
highlighted the importance of health and safety and the
environmental impact of our activities. As stated in the
Environmental Policy Statement on page 23 these aspects
of our operations are subject to annual internal audit, and
we have now achieved ISO 14001 (Environmental
Management Systems) accreditation at all our principal UK
operating sites. 
Employees
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for
employment by disabled persons, having regard to their
particular aptitudes and abilities. Every effort is made to
continue the employment of employees who have become
disabled during their employment with the Group.
Depending on their skills and abilities, disabled employees
have the same career prospects and opportunities for
promotion as other employees. 
The Group’s practice is to keep all its employees informed
on matters affecting them, through consultation and
information on the general financial and economic factors
affecting the Group’s performance. 
Substantial Interests
As of 24 February 2006 the Company had been informed of
interests of 3% or more in the Company’s issued ordinary
shares as follows:
No. of ordinary
shares %
Aberforth Partners’ Clients 30,000,000 20.83
J O Hambro Capital Management
Group 16,290,000 11.31
The Active Value Funds 10,333,801 7.17
SVG Capital Plc 8,625,000 5.99
Canada Life 6,910,366 4.80
UBS Global Asset Management 6,681,472 4.64
Legal & General Investment
Management 5,384,052 3.75
Morley Fund Management 5,323,293 3.70
Policy in Respect of Payment of
Suppliers
The Group’s policy is to settle terms of payment with
suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction,
ensure suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment
and abide by the terms of payment. 
The number of days’ purchases in creditors at the
year-end was 62 days (2004: 62 days).  Directors’ Report (continued)
12
Communisis plc Directors’ Report
International Financial Reporting
Standards
All UK listed companies are required to comply with adopted
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) in their
first financial statements commencing on or after 1 January
2005. This means that the Company has prepared its first
IFRS financial statements for the year ended 31 December
2005. 
Treasury Policy
The Group takes a centralised approach to the management
of debt, liquid resources and interest rate risk. It finances its
activities with a combination of bank loans, finance and
operating leases, cash and short-term deposits.
Uncommitted overdraft facilities are used to satisfy short-
term cash flow requirements. The Group’s facilities all carry
interest rates based on LIBOR and therefore the group is
exposed to interest rate movement.
The Board continues to monitor whether it can economically
reduce its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency
movements.
Charitable and Political
Donations
During the year the Group contributed £34,250
(2004: £32,133) for charitable purposes. No contributions
were made for political purposes during the year.
Annual General Meeting
Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held on
21 April 2006 is contained in the document addressed to
shareholders and enclosed with this Report. That document
also contains details of the special business to be proposed
at the Annual General Meeting. 
Directors’ Statement
So far as the directors holding office at the time the
Directors’ Report was approved are aware, there is no
relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware.
Auditors
The directors will place a resolution before the Annual
General Meeting to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as
auditors for the ensuing year. 
By order of the Board
Martin Young
Secretary
2 March 2006 Corporate Governance
13
Corporate Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Board
The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman,
three executive directors and two further independent non-
executive directors.
The Chairman has primary responsibility for the running of
the Board and for ensuring effective communication with
shareholders. The Chief Executive is responsible for
operations and for the development of strategic plans and
initiatives for consideration by the Board. The division of
responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief
Executive has been clearly established, set out in writing and
agreed by the Board. In addition, Michael Firth is the Senior
Independent Director of the Company.
The other significant commitments of the Chairman are
detailed in his biography on page 9. They did not change
during 2005.
Prior to his appointment to the Company’s Board in
December 2002, Michael Firth was Head of Corporate
Banking at HSBC Bank plc, one of the Company’s principal
banks. The Company considers Mr Firth to be independent
as a) it maintains strong relationships with several other
banks, b) Mr Firth has displayed clear independence of
thought and action in his Board activities and c) he retired
from HSBC Bank plc more than three years ago.
The Board schedules eight meetings each year, and also
arranges to meet at other times as appropriate. All eight
scheduled meetings held in 2005 were fully attended, apart
from one meeting, which Roger Jennings was unable to
attend.
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved
for its decision and approval. These include key public
announcements (such as financial statements), acquisitions
and disposals, major capital expenditure, capital raising and
accounting and other Group policies.
The Company seeks to ensure that the Board is supplied
with appropriate and timely information to enable it to
discharge its duties and a pack of financial and other
information is provided for each Board meeting. There is
also a procedure for directors to seek independent
professional advice when necessary. All directors have
access to the advice and services of the Company
Secretary.
All directors receive an induction on joining the Board. Board
and committee agenda items, together with other Board
activities and external training, assist the directors in
continually updating their skills and knowledge of and
familiarity with the Company. The Company provides the
necessary resource and assistance to develop and update
the directors’ knowledge and capabilities.
During the year the Board completed a performance
evaluation to monitor its effectiveness and consider the way
it operates. Under the terms of this procedure each director
completes a questionnaire on the effectiveness and
processes of the Board and its committees. The results are
then considered by the Board. Given the very small Board,
the directors have decided that a procedure for individual
performance evaluation is not necessary; the need for such
a procedure will be reviewed annually. The Senior
Independent Director, after consultation with other directors,
conducts an appraisal interview with the Chairman.
The Chairman also meets periodically with the other non-
executive directors, without the executive directors present,
to discuss a range of issues including strategy, financial
performance, progress towards targets and the
performance of the executive directors. Two such meetings
took place in 2005. 
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that one-
third of the directors retire (rounded down if the number of
directors is not divisible by three) at each Annual General
Meeting. However, all directors will submit themselves for
re-election at least once every three years. Details on the
directors submitting themselves for re-election are given on
page 10 and on page 5 of the Notice of Meeting. 
The proposed re-election at the 2006 Annual General
Meeting of Michael Smith, Chairman, and Michael Firth,
non-executive director, who both retire by rotation, have
been considered by the Nominations Committee. In the
Committee’s view, Mr Smith and Mr Firth continue to
demonstrate the expected level of commitment and to be
effective members of the Board.
The Chairman and non-executive directors are appointed for
a specified term of three years, subject to re-election.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the
Board, through the Chairman, on all corporate governance
matters.
Board Committees
The Board has three committees, Audit, Remuneration and
Nominations, all of which have terms of reference which deal
specifically with their authorities and duties. The terms of
reference may be viewed on the Company’s website
(www.communisis.com).
No additional fees are paid for membership of the
committees other than the Chairmen of the Audit and
Remuneration committees, who each receive an additional
fee of £3,000 per annum. Corporate Governance (continued)
14
Communisis plc Corporate Governance
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the three non-executive
directors and is chaired by Roger Jennings. Appointments
to the Committee are made by the Board.
The Board considers that the membership of the Audit
Committee as a whole has sufficient recent and relevant
financial experience to fulfil its duties.
The Committee is provided with sufficient resources to
undertake its duties. It has access to the services of the
Company Secretary (who acts as secretary to the
Committee) and all other employees. The Committee may
take independent legal or professional advice when it
believes it necessary to do so.
The Committee meets as required, but not less than three
times a year. Three meetings were held in 2005 and all were
fully attended.
Other directors, including the Finance Director, also attend
Committee meetings, but the Committee also meets
privately for discussions with the external auditor, who
attends all of its meetings. The internal auditor attends
Committee meetings as appropriate.
The main roles and responsibilities of the Committee are to:
• monitor the integrity of the Company’s financial
statements;
• review the Company’s internal financial control and risk
management systems;
• monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit
function;
• oversee the Company’s relationship with the external
auditor.
If any material cause for concern or scope for improvement
is revealed the Committee will recommend to the Board any
action required.
The main activities of the Committee in 2005 were:
• assessing the effectiveness of the significant financial
reporting issues related to the preparation of the
Company’s financial statements;
• assessing the effectiveness of the systems established
to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and
non-financial risks;
• monitoring the integrity of the Company’s internal
financial controls;
• monitoring and reviewing the plans, work and
effectiveness of the internal audit function, including
action taken following any significant failure in internal
control;
• monitoring the Group’s planning and implementation of
the new international financial reporting standards;
• reviewing with the external auditor the findings of its
work and the effectiveness of the external audit process;
and 
• reviewing the independence and objectivity of the
external auditor. 
The Committee also has an agreed policy on the
engagement of the external auditor for the supply of
non-audit services. The policy specifies services which may
not be provided and details a cost threshold above which
engagement is not permitted. This allows the Committee to
satisfy itself that auditor objectivity and independence is
safeguarded. 
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee comprises the three
non-executive directors and is chaired by Michael Smith.
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board.
The Committee is provided with sufficient resources to
undertake its duties. It has access to the services of the
Company Secretary (who acts as secretary to the
Committee) and all other employees. The Committee may
take independent legal or professional advice when it
believes it necessary to do so.
The Committee meets as required and during 2005 met
once. All Committee members attended the meeting.
The main roles and responsibilities of the Committee
are to:
• consider, at the request of the Board or the Chairman,
the making of any appointment or re-appointment to the
Board;
• identify and nominate for the approval of the Board,
candidates to fill Board vacancies as they arise;
• evaluate the skills, knowledge and experience of the
Board and, in the light of this, prepare a description of
the role and capabilities required for a particular
appointment;
• keep the composition of the Board under review and
make recommendations to the Board.
Remuneration Committee
Details of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the
Report by the Board on Directors’ Remuneration on page
17. That Report should be read in conjunction with this
section of the Corporate Governance Report.
The Committee met four times during 2005; all meetings
were fully attended. Corporate Governance (continued)
15
Corporate Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Internal Control
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness annually. The
Board performed such a review during 2005. Such a system
is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure
to achieve the Group’s strategic objectives and can only
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing
the Group’s significant risks has been established. These
procedures have been in place throughout the financial year
and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and
Accounts. The effectiveness of the process is reviewed
twice yearly by the Board in accordance with the guidance,
Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined
Code.
Principal elements of the Group’s system of internal
controls are:
(i) Control environment
The Board sets the overall policy for the Group, which
includes a well defined organisational structure with clear
operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated
authority. Control procedures exist to identify and control
business risks, safeguard the Group’s assets and to ensure
that financial transactions are properly recorded.
(ii) Assessment of business risk
A system of risk assessment and evaluation of controls is
embedded within the management process. Risk
assessment and evaluation takes place within each
operating unit whereby management completes a
structured review of business risks and risks to business
objectives, which are evaluated in terms of their individual
significance and set out in the Key Risks Report. Strategic
risks and opportunities arising from changes in the Group’s
business environment are regularly reviewed by the Board.
Appropriate control procedures are identified for each key
risk and responsibility for control is allocated to appropriate
managers.
(iii) Monitoring Process
The control procedures are regularly reviewed by executive
management. The Board, in addition to its review of internal
financial controls, reviews the Key Risks Report twice yearly.
The Board also reviews other reports setting out the main
performance and risk indicators and considers possible
control issues brought to its attention by these and other
early warning mechanisms which are embedded within the
operations. Representations that control procedures have
been operating effectively throughout the year are received
from each business unit.
The agenda for Board meetings includes twice each year an
item for consideration of business risks and controls and the
Board receives regular reports which discuss how effectively
control procedures are operating. The Board uses these
reports as a basis to assess risks material to the
achievement of the Group’s strategic objectives.
Internal Financial Control
In addition to the general internal controls discussed above
the directors of the Company acknowledge their
responsibility for the Group’s system of internal financial
control.
The key features of the internal financial control system that
operated throughout the period covered by the accounts
are described below:
(i) Operating controls
The purposes of the key financial and operating control
procedures in place throughout the Group are:
• the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised use or
disposition, and
• the maintenance of proper accounting records and
reliable financial information for use within the business
or for publication.
(ii) Financial reporting and information systems
There is a comprehensive budgeting and strategic review
system with an annual budget and revised forecasts for the
year, which are continuously updated and compared to
actual results on a regular basis.
(iii) Functional reporting
The Board has identified specific areas and transactions
which require full Board approval. These include matters
such as acquisitions and disposals over certain pre-agreed
financial limits and the establishment of banking facilities.
(iv) Investment appraisal
The Group has clearly defined guidelines for capital
expenditure. These include detailed appraisal and review
procedures, levels of authority and due diligence
requirements.
(v) Internal audit
There is a rolling programme of internal audit reviews of
subsidiary companies, which are documented and reported. Corporate Governance (continued)
16
Communisis plc Corporate Governance
Since January 2005 the Group’s internal audit function has
been outsourced to KPMG. The Group also has a self-
assessment package, which facilitates the measurement
and appraisal of the principal financial controls across the
Group.
The Board continues to consider and review the
effectiveness of the system of internal financial control in
operation in the Group, and for 2005 the directors consider
that there have been no material weaknesses in internal
financial control that have resulted in any material losses,
contingencies or uncertainties requiring disclosure in the
accounts.
Relations with Shareholders
There is a programme of regular meetings with major
institutional shareholders to consider the Group’s
performance, strategy and governance. In addition,
presentations are made twice yearly after the results
announcements.
In addition to the results presentations and the annual
general meeting, the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance
Director met during 2005 with a number of major
institutional investors. The views of the shareholders
expressed during such meetings are also communicated to
the Board as a whole, and through this process of
communication the Board is able to gain a sound
understanding of the views and concerns of major
shareholders. Other directors are available to meet the
Company’s major shareholders if requested.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders
if they have concerns which contact through the Chairman,
Chief Executive and Finance Director has failed to resolve or
for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Board receives a monthly market report from the
Company’s brokers. In addition, principles of corporate
governance and voting guidelines issued by the Company’s
institutional shareholders and their representative bodies are
circulated to and considered by the Board.
The Board also welcomes the attendance and questions of
shareholders at the annual general meeting which is also
attended by the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and
Nominations Committees. Shareholders are invited to ask
questions and are able to meet the directors informally.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantially
separate issue and the number of proxy votes cast for and
against each resolution, as well as the number of votes
withheld, are announced to the meeting following voting by
a show of hands. A poll would be called on any resolution
where it was appropriate or required. The Company offers
an electronic voting capability to investors. 
Compliance with the Revised
Combined Code
The directors consider that the Company has, during the
year ended 31 December 2005, complied with the
requirements of the revised Combined Code other than as
follows:
(i) During 2005 the Company did not comply with the Code
provision A.1.3 in that no meeting was held by the non-
executive directors without the Chairman being present.
It was the view of the Board that as there are only two
non-executive directors such a meeting was not
appropriate. 
(ii) As at the date of this report the Company does not fully
comply with Code provision A.6. The current Board
evaluation procedures, which were introduced in
September 2004, do not include a formal review of the
performance of individual directors. As noted above, this
is in the light of the directors’ view that the size of the
Board renders such a process unnecessary.
(iii) Provisions B.2.1 and C.3.1 require the Remuneration
Committee and Audit Committee respectively to be
composed of independent non-executive directors. The
Board considers it appropriate that the Chairman be a
member of each of these committees by virtue of his
experience and contribution at these meetings. 
(iv) The Board does not strictly comply with Combined Code
Provision D.1.1 in respect of communications between
non-executive directors and shareholders. The
Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director held
meetings with major shareholders during the year.
However, major shareholders have access to the Senior
Independent Director if they wish, to discuss strategy or
governance issues. Report by the Board on Directors’ Remuneration
17
Report by the Board on Directors’ Remuneration Annual Report and Accounts 2005
This report is presented to shareholders by the Board and
sets out the Board’s remuneration policy and details of the
remuneration of each director. The Remuneration
Committee is responsible for developing policy on executive
remuneration and for approving the remuneration packages
of individual executive directors. No executive director may
participate in decisions regarding his own remuneration.
The aim of the Board is to attract, motivate and retain high
calibre executives by rewarding them with competitive salary
and benefit packages, which reflect their level of
responsibility and performance. For guidance the Board’s
Remuneration Committee has regard to published
remuneration information on similar companies and
appoints external advisers as it sees fit. During the year
professional advice was sought from external consultants
Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow, who did not provide any other
services to the Group. Base salary and benefits are reviewed
each year to ensure that they are supportive of the
Company’s business objectives and the creation of
shareholder value. The Board believes in performance
related awards that both incentivise executive directors and
senior executives to generate exceptional performance and
provide a clear and direct alignment of their interests with
those of shareholders.
During 2005 the Remuneration Committee has comprised:
Michael Firth Chairman 
Roger Jennings
Michael Smith
The main components of the remuneration package are as
follows:
1. Basic salary
Salaries for directors and certain key employees are
reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee. It is the
Committee’s policy to ensure that the basic salary is
appropriate and competitive for the responsibilities involved.
2. Performance related bonus
The Company operated an annual performance bonus plan
during 2005 for David Jones, Mark Whiteling and Denise
Moran. The level of bonus was linked to Group operating
profit and capped at 100% of basic salary. If earned, one
half of the bonus would have been paid in cash with the
balance delivered in existing Communisis shares, valued on
the date on which the bonus would have been payable. The
plan was a deferred bonus plan based on annual
performance and not a long term incentive plan. The shares
were not subject to performance conditions and would
normally have vested in the individual at the end of a three-
year holding period, provided that he or she remained
employed by the Company at that time. During the three
year holding period dividends declared on such shares
would have been paid to the individuals.
This performance bonus structure also operated in 2005 for
the Executive Management Committee.
Performance bonuses are not payable in respect of the
financial year ended 31 December 2005. 
For 2006 a profit-related incentive scheme will be in
operation for the executive directors and members of the
Executive Management Committee. The performance
targets and bonus will be based on the achievement of
specified levels of operating profit, calculated on an IFRS
basis. The bonus will be calculated on a linear basis
between 50% and 100% of basic salary, depending on the
level of operating profit achieved.
If the financial targets are not met a bonus of up to 10% of
basic salary may be paid at the Chief Executive’s discretion,
based on the achievement of predetermined individual
personal objectives.
3. Pension benefits
Details of the individual directors’ pension arrangements are
as follows:
David Jones is entitled to a pension of one-third of
basic salary on retirement at the normal retirement age of
sixty.
Denise Moran is a member of the final salary section of the
Communisis Pension Plan. This provides a pension of one
sixtieth of final salary at normal retirement age for each year
of pensionable service. This is subject to the benefit not
exceeding one thirtieth of the Inland Revenue earnings cap
(which applies to members who joined the Plan on or after 1
June 1989) for each year of pensionable service. Normal
retirement age is sixty-five.
Mark Whiteling is a member of the Executive segment of the
career average revalued earnings section of the Communisis
Pension Plan. This provides an accrual each year of a unit of
one forty-fifth of pensionable salary for that year. The unit is
then revalued in each subsequent year by the rate of growth
in the Retail Prices Index, until Mr Whiteling’s contractual
retirement age of sixty. Mr Whiteling’s pensionable salary for
this calculation is limited by the earnings cap. Normal
retirement age under the terms of the Pension Plan is sixty-
two, but an adjustment will be made to Mr Whiteling’s
pension in order to ensure that he is not disadvantaged by
retiring early. 
Mr Whiteling also benefits from a salary supplement which Report by the Board on Directors’ Remuneration (continued)
18
Communisis plc Report by the Board on Directors’ Remuneration
amounts to 20% of basic salary above the earnings cap.
This supplement is not eligible for the purpose of bonus
calculation.
Life assurance cover of up to four times basic salary is also
provided for the executive directors.
4. Benefits in kind
The main elements are the provision of, or a monthly
monetary allowance for, a motor car and medical insurance.
These benefits are in line with those offered by comparable
companies and are valued for the purposes of remuneration
at the amount assessed to income tax on the director.
5. Share option plans
Two share option plans have operated during the year
ended 31 December 2005:
• The Savings Related Share Option Scheme
• The Executive Share Option Scheme 2000.
(i) Savings Related Share Option Scheme
The Company operates a Savings Related Share Option
Scheme in which all UK-based employees of the Group are
entitled to participate.
(ii) Executive Share Option Scheme 2000
In June 2000 the Company established the Executive Share
Option Scheme 2000. Under the Inland Revenue approved
section of this scheme the value of options granted is
restricted to £30,000. Under the unapproved section of this
scheme options may be granted to a value exceeding
£30,000. Options previously granted under both sections
are generally subject to the performance condition that the
percentage increase in normalised (i.e. before goodwill
amortisation, restructuring costs and other non-recurring
items) earnings per share (‘eps’) over any three consecutive
financial years, commencing on or after the beginning of the
financial year in which the date of grant fell, must exceed the
percentage increase in the Retail Prices Index (‘RPI’)
over that period by an average of at least 3% per annum. On
grants of options in April 2005 and subsequently, re-testing
of the performance condition has not been and will not be
permitted. However, see below for the performance
condition applied to the grant of options to the Chief
Executive.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the
performance measure for this scheme of growth in
normalised eps is a significant driver of sustained
improvement in the Group’s performance, which will focus
executives on profitable growth in both the short and long
term. It has the additional benefits of being well recognised
and easily understood.
The Remuneration Committee has, however, decided that
for options granted to the Chief Executive, the performance
condition should recognise the relative performance of the
Company as compared to similar businesses. Therefore
those options previously granted to the Chief Executive will
only become exercisable three years after the date of grant
if the TSR of the Company, as compared with the TSR
performance of similar companies in the Support Services
sector of the FTSE All Share Index (excluding FTSE 100
companies), is at or above the median level over this period.
If this target is not achieved at the end of the initial three-year
period, it will be re-tested for one further year only. The Chief
Executive was granted options under the scheme over
shares having a value of two times his basic salary (as at the
date of grant) in 2003 and one times his basic salary in
2004. Options having a value of one times his basic salary
were also granted in 2005, but the performance condition
for this grant will not be subject to re-testing after the initial
three-year period.
6. The communisis Matched Award Plan (‘the Matched
Award Plan’)
The Matched Award Plan, for which shareholders’ approval
was given at the 2003 AGM, was established to encourage
selected senior employees of the Company to invest up to
50 per cent of any amount paid to them under any
performance related incentive plan (or any other amount of
such payment which the Remuneration Committee may
decide in respect of any individual) in the Company's shares.
Under the Matched Award Plan, the Company would match
the investment made by participants on a share-for-share
basis. Participants would normally have become entitled to
the matched shares at the end of a three-year holding
period provided that they remained employed by the
Company at that time and pro-rata to the extent that they
had continued to hold their invested shares.
On 23 September 2003 David Jones was granted a
matched award of 30,000 shares to reflect his purchase on
that date of the same number of shares in the Company.
The Remuneration Committee does not intend to issue any
further shares under the Matched Award Plan in its present
format.
7. Service agreements
The Company’s policy is for all executive directors to have
service agreements which terminate on the attainment of
retirement age. In order to mitigate its liability on early
termination, the Company’s policy is that it should be able to Report by the Board on Directors’ Remuneration (continued)
19
Report by the Board on Directors’ Remuneration Annual Report and Accounts 2005
terminate such agreements on no more than twelve months’
notice. 
Details of the directors’ service agreements are as follows:
David Jones has an agreement dated 20 December 1999
which expires on 7 September 2010. This agreement can be
terminated by the Company or the director with twelve
months’ notice, and provides for the payment of basic
salary, plus certain benefits, for the notice period.
Denise Moran has an agreement dated 6 December 2000
which expires on 3 November 2027. This agreement can be
terminated by the Company with twelve months’ notice or
by the director with six months’ notice and provides for the
payment of basic salary, plus certain benefits, for the
notice period.
Mark Whiteling has an agreement dated 15 October 2004
which expires on 19 March 2023. This agreement can be
terminated by the Company with twelve months’ notice or
by the director with six months’ notice and provides for the
payment of basic salary, plus certain benefits, for the notice
period.
8. Non-executive Directors
The fees payable to the non-executive directors are
proposed by the Remuneration Committee and approved
by the full Board. At present the basic fee is £26,000 per
annum with a further £3,000 payable in respect of Board
committee chairmanships.
The Chairman’s fee is set at £100,000 per annum, fixed for
his initial appointment term of three years.
The non-executive directors are engaged under letters of
appointment for initial and subsequent periods of three
years and terminable at the discretion of either party.
The non-executive directors cannot participate in the
Company’s share option schemes, are not entitled to any
pension benefit and are not entitled to any payment in
compensation for early termination of their appointment.
The commencement dates for the current appointments of
non-executive directors are:
Michael Smith – 10 April 2003
Michael Firth – 14 November 2005
Roger Jennings – 10 June 2005
Directors’ remuneration
Detailed information concerning directors’ remuneration,
pension entitlements and, save as disclosed above,
interests in the ordinary shares of the Company (including
options), as required by the Companies Act 1985 and the
Rules of the Financial Services Authority, are set out on
pages 21 and 22.
By order of the Board
Martin Young
Secretary Report by the Board on Directors’ Remuneration (continued)
20
Communisis plc Report by the Board on Directors’ Remuneration
Comparative Total Shareholder Return
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Shareholder Return
The graph above shows Communisis’ TSR performance compared to the FTSE All Share Index over the past
five years. The graph provides a basis for comparison with a relevant equity index of which Communisis is a
constituent.
COMMUNISIS
FTSE ALL SHARE Source: DATASTREAM Report by the Board on Directors’ Remuneration (continued)
21
Report by the Board on Directors’ Remuneration Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Directors’ Remuneration
for the year ended 31 December 2005
Benefits in 2005 2004
Salary/Fees kind Total Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
Executive directors
D E A Jones 354 3 357 348
A J Hughes – – – 146
D Moran 203 22 225 82
M A Whiteling 265 2 267 44
Non–executive directors
M G Firth 29 – 29 27
R W Jennings 29 – 29 27
M E Smith 100 – 100 100
980 27 1,007 774
Directors’ Pension Entitlement
Three directors earned defined benefits through the Group’s pension arrangements during the year ended 31 December 2005
(2004: three). The table below sets out details of the pension benefits earned during the year:
• Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of
the year.
• Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 9.2 of guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial
profession.
• The increase in the accrued pension net of inflation and the value of the net increase in accrual over the period comply with
Greenbury requirements. The value of the net increase in the accrual over the period represents the incremental value to the
director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption that service terminated at the year-end. It is based on
the accrued pension increase net of inflation after deducting the director’s contribution in the year.
• The change in the transfer value includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of
the Company and directors, such as stock market movements. It is calculated after deducting the director’s contribution in
the year.
• For Ms Moran, the total accrued pension shown includes a fixed pension of £6,584 pa payable from normal retirement age.
• Voluntary contributions paid by directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
Transfer Transfer Total Increase Value of
Gross Total value value change in in net
increase accrued of accrued of accrued transfer accrued increase
in pension at pension at pension at value pension in accrual
accrued 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec during net of during the
pension 2005 2005 2004 the year inflation year
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
D E A Jones 13 63 950 668 266 11 152
M A Whiteling 2 3 22 3 11 2 10
D Moran 10 57 324 224 85 9 45 Report by the Board on Directors’ Remuneration (continued)
22
Communisis plc Report by the Board on Directors’ Remuneration
Directors’ Interests
The interests (all being beneficial) of directors in the Company’s securities are set out below:
At 31 December 2005 At 31 December 2004
Ordinary Share Ordinary Share
Shares Options Shares Options
M G Firth 13,000 – 13,000 –
R W Jennings 13,000 – 13,000 –
D E A Jones 97,695 1,201,778 97,695 909,420
D Moran – 553,231 – 465,895
M E Smith 25,000 – 25,000 –
M A Whiteling 4,500 294,759 4,500 –
Notes
1. The directors and their families had no interest in the shares of any other Company within the Group.
2. Current directors’ shareholdings had not changed between the year-end and the date of this report.
Share options
The number of, and prices at which, options under the Executive Share Option Scheme and the Savings Related Share Option
Scheme have been granted to directors are set out below:
Options Options Options
held at granted held at Earliest Latest
1 January during the 31 December Option exercise exercise
2005 year 2005 price (p) date date
Savings related
D E A Jones 13,128 – 13,128 128.54p 1 Dec 2005 1 Jun 2006
D Moran 10,137 – 10,137 91.00p 1 Dec 2006 1 Jun 2007
Executive
D E A Jones 588,235 – 588,235 110.50p 7 Mar 2006 7 Mar 2013
308,057 – 308,057 105.50p 9 Mar 2007 9 Mar 2014
– 292,358 292,358 114.50p 18 Apr 2008 18 Apr 2015
D Moran 122,542 – 122,542 156.25p 7 Jun 2003 7 Jun 2010
66,600 – 66,600 162.67p 22 Mar 2005 22 Mar 2012
96,000 – 96,000 125.00p 5 Sep 2005 5 Sep 2012
170,616 – 170,616 105.50p 6 Oct 2006 6 Oct 2013
– 87,336 87,336 114.50p 18 Apr 2008 18 Apr 2015
M A Whiteling – 294,759 294,759 114.50p 18 Apr 2008 18 Apr 2015
Notes
1. No options were exercised by directors during the year and consequently the amount of gains made on exercise was £Nil
(2004: £Nil).
2. The range of market price of shares in Communisis plc during the year ended 31 December 2005 was 75.5p to 131p.
The closing price on 31 December 2005 was 76.75p.
3. None of the directors paid for the award of options.
4. Details of the performance conditions attached to the share options are given on page 18.
Of the above information on pages 21 and 22 the following have been audited: directors’ remuneration; directors’ pension
entitlements table and share options. Environmental Policy Statement
23
Environmental Policy Statement Annual Report and Accounts 2005
It is the Group’s policy to seek continually to eliminate and,
where this is not practicable, to minimise negative
environmental impacts from the pursuit of its various
business interests whilst continuing to produce high quality
products to its customers’ needs, specification and
satisfaction.
Environmental impact is considered throughout the
organisation, with particular emphasis placed upon:
• design and development of new products and
processes;
• selection of raw materials and suppliers;
• internal production methods to include:
– reducing wastage
– reducing energy usage
– reducing the use of scarce resources, including raw
materials;
• minimising the use and controlling the disposal of
hazardous substances;
• controlling emissions to air, drainage and landfill.
It is the Group’s policy to comply with all statutory
environmental requirements as a minimum and to aim to
improve upon the standards set by local regulatory
authorities. To this end, each subsidiary is audited by the
Group Health, Safety and Environment Manager to:
• benchmark performance across the Group; 
• help sites identify and prioritise issues for improvement; 
• ensure legal compliance.
The results of audits are communicated directly to the Chief
Executive, the Company Secretary and to all relevant
members of the Executive Management Committee and
appropriate action is taken.
In line with our practice of having measurable performance
standards, the Group has initiated a programme under
which all of our operations are targeting the achievement of
accreditation under the international environmental
management standard 14001. We have now achieved ISO
14001 (Environmental Management Systems) accreditation
at all our principal UK operating sites. 24
Communisis plc Consolidated Income Statement
Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2005
Restated
2005 2004
Note £000 £000
Continuing operations
Revenue 4 264,785 269,664 
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress (79) 95 
Raw materials and consumables used (140,349) (144,413) 
Employee benefits expense 5.2 (70,139) (76,454) 
Depreciation and amortisation expense (9,233) (9,545) 
Other operating expenses (32,956) (30,868) 
Loss on sale of Datadocs operation 10 (4,865) – 
Profit from operations 7,164 8,479
Analysed as:
Profit from operations before exceptional restructuring costs 15,073 15,266 
Restructuring costs 5.3 (7,909) (6,787)
Profit from operations 7,164 8,479 
Finance revenue 4 252 351 
Finance costs 5.1 (3,317) (2,605)
Profit before taxation 4,099 6,225 
Income tax expense 6 (2,014) (1,215)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 2,085 5,010 
Discontinued operations
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations 7 512 (11,750)
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders of parent 2,597 (6,740)
Earnings per share 11
On profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders
– basic 1.81p (4.69p)
– diluted 1.80p (4.69p)
On profit for the year from continuing operations
– basic 1.45p 3.49p
– diluted 1.45p 3.48p
Dividend per share 12
– paid 5.502p 5.002p
– proposed 3.897p 3.549p
Dividends paid and proposed during the year were £7.9 million and £5.6 million respectively (2004 £7.2 million and £5.1 million
respectively).
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  25
Consolidated Balance Sheet Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Consolidated Balance Sheet
31 December 2005
Restated
2005 2004
Note £000 £000
ASSETS
Non–current assets
Property, plant and equipment 13 32,286 42,619 
Intangible assets 14 173,797 176,537 
Trade and other receivables 19 6,055 3,927
Deferred tax asset 6 8,417 6,956
220,555 230,039
Current assets
Inventories 18 13,089 15,982 
Trade and other receivables 19 47,616 48,870 
Cash and cash equivalents 20 9,778 12,963 
70,483 77,815 
Non-current assets classified as held for sale 21 3,344 996 
TOTAL ASSETS 294,382 308,850 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent
Issued capital 22 36,008 35,999 
Share premium 152,287 152,261 
Merger reserve 11,427 11,427 
Share option reserve 602 359
ESOP reserve (374) (374) 
Cumulative translation adjustment (2) (253)
Retained earnings (56,631) (49,191) 
Total equity 32 143,317 150,228
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 23 33,500 29,500 
Retirement benefit obligations 17 37,737 42,664 
Provisions 24 408 698 
71,645 72,862 
Current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 23 12,251 11,077 
Trade and other payables 25 61,575 67,431 
Income tax payable 5,550 6,125
Provisions 24 44 1,127
79,420 85,760
Total liabilities 151,065 158,622 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 294,382 308,850 
The financial statements on pages 24 to 77 were approved by the Board on 2 March 2006 and signed on its behalf by:
D E A Jones
M A Whiteling
Directors
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  26
Communisis plc Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2005
Restated
2005 2004
Note £000 £000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 31 6,408 18,332
Interest paid (2,498) (1,634) 
Interest received 239 351 
Income tax paid (2,988) (5,217)
Net cash flows from operating activities 1,161 11,832 
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking net of cash acquired (1,137) (16,804) 
Proceeds from the sale of subsidiary undertakings 147 7,996 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (3,857) (7,778) 
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 3,997 1,557 
Purchase of intangible assets (539) (569)
Tax on disposal of property, plant and equipment (231) –
Net cash flows from investing activities (1,620) (15,598) 
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital 35 7 
New borrowings 10,000 22,000 
Repayment of borrowings (5,000) (12,500) 
Repayment of borrowings assumed on acquisition – (4,216) 
Dividends paid (7,907) (7,184) 
Net cash flows from financing activities (2,872) (1,893) 
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (3,331) (5,659) 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 9,386 15,343 
Exchange rate effects (28) (298) 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 6,027 9,386 
Cash and cash equivalents consist of:
Cash and cash equivalents 20 9,778 12,963 
Overdrafts 23 (3,751) (3,577) 
6,027 9,386 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 27
Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
for the year ended 31 December 2005
Restated
2005 2004
£000 £000
Currency translation gains/(losses) in year 98 (949)
Foreign currency translation difference transferred from reserves 
on sale of Colour Cards businesses – 696
Foreign currency translation difference transferred from reserves on 
sale of Datadocs business 153 –
Exchange gains/(losses) on translation of foreign operations 251 (253)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension plans (3,043) (1,167)
Tax on items taken directly to equity 913 350
Net loss recognised directly in equity (1,879) (1,070)
Profit/(loss) for the year 2,597 (6,740)
Total recognised income and expense for the year 718 (7,810)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 718 (7,810)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  28
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
1 Basis of financial statements
The consolidated financial statements of Communisis plc
(the ‘Group’) for the year ended 31 December 2005 were
authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the
directors on 2 March 2006. Communisis plc is a public
limited company incorporated and domiciled in England
whose shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
2 Accounting policies
2.1 Basis of preparation
These 2005 consolidated financial statements of
Communisis plc are for the year ended 31 December 2005.
They have been prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the
European Union for the first time. The disclosures required
by IFRS 1 concerning transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are
given in Note 35.
These consolidated financial statements have been
prepared on a historical cost basis except for pension
assets and liabilities and share options that are stated at
their fair values. The consolidated financial statements are
presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the
nearest thousand British Pounds (£000) except where
otherwise indicated.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below
and have been consistently applied to all years presented. 
2.2 Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial
statements of Communisis plc and its subsidiaries as at
31 December each year. The results of subsidiaries prepared
for the same reporting year as the parent company are
included in these consolidated financial statements, using
consistent accounting policies. All intra-group balances and
transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-
group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which
control is transferred to the Group and cease to be
consolidated from the date on which control is transferred
out of the Group. Where there is a change of control of a
subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the
results for the part of the reporting year during which
Communisis plc has control.
The Group has taken the exemption under IFRS 1 not to
retrospectively apply IFRS 3 and restate business
combinations prior to 1 January 2004, the Group’s date of
transition to IFRS.
2.3 Significant accounting judgements and estimates
Estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key
sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment
to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the
next financial year are discussed below.
Impairment of Goodwill
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least
on an annual basis. This requires an estimation of the value
in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is
allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the Group to
make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the
cash-generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount
rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash
flows. The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December
2005 was £171,200,000 (2004: £173,617,000). Additional
information is included in Note 15.
Other areas
Other areas of significant judgement include provisioning for
onerous leases, share based payments and pension
accounting. Details of key assumptions in these areas are
disclosed in Notes 24, 16 and 17 to these financial
statements.
2.4 Summary of significant accounting policies
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the
functional currency at the rate ruling at the date of the
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange
ruling at the balance sheet date and exchange differences
arising are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical
cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange
rate as at the date of the initial transaction. Non-monetary
items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are
translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair
value was determined.
The functional currency of the overseas subsidiaries is the
Euro. As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of
these overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the
rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and their
income statements are translated at the weighted average
exchange rates for the year where this is a reasonable
approximation to actual translation rates. The exchange
differences arising on the retranslation are taken directly to a
separate component of equity described as the cumulative
translation adjustment. On disposal of a foreign entity, the
cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that
particular foreign operation is recognised in the income
statement. 29
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption from
calculating the cumulative translation differences of net
assets of foreign subsidiaries held in reserves at the date
of transition. 
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment in
value. Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the
estimated useful life of the asset as follows:
Freehold property 25 to 50 years
Long leasehold property 25 to 50 years
Short leasehold property 10 to 20 years
Plant, equipment and motor vehicles 4 to 10 years
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are
reviewed for impairment when events or changes in
circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be
recoverable. If any such indication exists, and where the
carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount,
the assets or cash-generating units are written down to their
recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of property,
plant and equipment is the greater of fair value less costs to
sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of money and the
risks specific to the asset. Useful economic lives,
depreciation methods and residual values are reviewed
annually. For an asset that does not generate largely
independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is
determined for the cash-generating unit to which the
asset belongs. Impairment losses are recognised in the
income statement.
Borrowings and borrowing costs
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of
transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently
stated at amortised cost; any difference between the
proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption
value is recognised in the income statement over the period
of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the
Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of
the liability for at least twelve months after the balance
sheet date.
Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred.
Goodwill 
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the
excess of the cost of the business combination including
directly attributable transaction costs, over the acquirer’s
interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities
and contingent liabilities. Following initial recognition,
goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated
impairment losses. Goodwill on acquisitions taking place
after 1 January 2004 is not amortised. Goodwill already
carried in the balance sheet at 31 December 2003 was
recorded at its carrying amount and is not amortised after
1 January 2004.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment, annually or more
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate
that its carrying value may be impaired. Goodwill is allocated
to the related cash-generating units monitored by
management for the purpose of impairment testing.
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit
(or groups of cash-generating units) and an operation within
that unit (or group of units) is disposed of, the goodwill
associated with the operation disposed of is included in the
carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain
or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in
this circumstance is measured based on the relative values
of the operations disposed of and the portion of the
cash-generating unit (or groups of units) retained.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption available
under IFRS 1 to not retranslate fair value adjustments and
goodwill that arose on acquisitions of foreign entities which
were made prior to the date of transition.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Intangible
assets, excluding development costs, created within the
business are not capitalised and expenditure is charged to
the income statement in the year in which the expenditure
is incurred.
(a) Acquired from a business combination
Intangibles arising from a business acquisition are
capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition, where it
can be measured reliably. Following initial recognition, the
cost model is applied to the class of intangible assets. The
useful lives of these intangible assets are assessed to be
either finite or indefinite. Amortisation charged on assets
with a finite life is recognised in amortisation expense in the
income statement. Intangible assets currently recognised
are being amortised over six years.
(b) Research and development costs
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Expenditure on a 30
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
development project, which is reliably measurable, is
capitalised when the technical feasibility and commercial
viability of the project is demonstrated. The Group must
intend to and have available the resources to complete the
project and be satisfied that the intangible asset arising from
the development project will generate probable future
economic benefits. Capitalisation ceases when the product
is ready for launch. 
Following the initial recognition of the development
expenditure, the cost model is applied requiring the asset to
be carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and
accumulated impairment losses. Any expenditure carried
forward is amortised over the period of expected future
sales from the related project.
The carrying value of development costs is reviewed when
there is an indicator of impairment. In addition it is reviewed
annually when the asset is not yet in use. 
(c) Computer software costs
Acquired computer software and licences are capitalised.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives
(three to five years). 
Costs associated with maintaining computer software
programs are recognised as an expense as incurred. Costs
that are directly associated with the production of identifiable
and unique software products controlled by the Group, and
that will generate probable economic benefits exceeding
costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible
assets.Direct costs include the costs of software
development employees. These costs are amortised over
their estimated useful lives (three to five years).
Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and
adjustments, where applicable are made on a prospective
basis.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful economic lives are
tested for impairment annually either individually or at the
cash-generating unit level. Such intangibles are not
amortised. The useful economic life of an intangible asset
with an indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine
whether indefinite life assessment continues to be
supportable. If not, the change in the useful economic life
assessment from indefinite to finite is made on a
prospective basis.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets
with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in
an active market; they are included in trade and other
receivables in the balance sheet. Assets in this category are
recognised at amortised cost.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable
value.
Raw materials are stated at purchase cost on a first-in,
first-out basis. For finished goods and work-in-progress,
costs include directly attributable material and labour costs
and certain overhead costs that contribute in bringing the
inventories to their present location and condition. Selling
expenses and other administrative overhead expenses are
excluded.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the
ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of
completion and the estimated costs necessary to make
the sale.
Provision is made for items of stock that are damaged,
obsolete or slow moving.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables, which generally have 30-90
days’ terms, are recognised and carried at original invoice
amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts. An
estimate for doubtful debts is made. Bad debts are written
off when identified.
Trade and other receivables include contract premium
payments made to secure the five year contract and three
year extension with Barclays Bank PLC. The premium is
being amortised on a straight line basis over the life of the
contract.
Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held
for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and
fair value less costs to sell. Upon reclassification as non-
current assets held for sale depreciation is ceased to be
charged.
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) are classified as
held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered
through a sale transaction rather than through continuing
use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is
highly probable and the asset (or disposal group) is available
for immediate sale in its present condition. Management
must be committed to the sale which should be expected to
qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year
from the date of classification.
Impairment of assets
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is
any indication that an asset may be impaired. Where an
indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes a formal
estimate of recoverable amount. Where the carrying amount 31
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is
considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable
amount. Recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or
cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs to sell and its
value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless
the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets,
in which case impairment is determined at the cash
generating unit level. The carrying amount of the cash
generating units to which goodwill is allocated and intangible
assets not yet available for use are reviewed annually, or
more frequently when there is an indication of impairment.
Value in use is determined by the estimated future cash
flows, discounted to their present values using a pre-tax
discount rate that reflects current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the risk specific to the 
asset.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise
cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits with an
original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement,
cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash
equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank
overdrafts. 
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event,
it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation
and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the
obligation. If the effect of the time value of money is material,
provisions are determined by discounting the expected
future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of money and, where
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Where
discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the
passage of time is recognised as a finance cost. 
Pensions and similar obligations
Group companies operate defined contribution and defined
benefit pension plans.
Payments to defined contribution pension plans are charged
as an expense to the income statement as incurred when
the related employee service is rendered. The Group has no
further legal or constructive payment obligations once the
contributions have been made.
For defined benefit pension plans, the cost of providing
benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit
Method and the service cost relating to the benefit earned in
the period is recognised in employee benefits expense in the
income statement. An interest cost representing the
unwinding of the discount rate on the scheme’s liabilities, net
of the expected return on scheme assets, is charged to the
income statement. The liability recognised in the balance
sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the
present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance
sheet date less the fair value of the plan assets. The defined
benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent
actuaries. The present value of the defined benefit obligation
is determined by discounting the estimated future cash
outflows using interest rates of AA rated corporate bonds
that have terms of maturity approximating to the terms of
the relevant pension liability.
All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the
present value of the defined benefit obligation and the fair
value of plan assets are recognised immediately in the
statement of recognised income and expense. 
Share-based payment transactions
Certain directors and management are eligible to participate
in share-based payment schemes, all of which are equity
settled.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is
measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which
they are granted. The fair value is determined by an external
valuer using an appropriate model. In valuing equity-settled
transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions,
other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of
Communisis plc (‘market conditions’).
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised,
together with a corresponding increase in equity shown as
the share option reserve, over the period in which the
performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on
which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the
award (‘vesting date’). The cumulative expense recognised
for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date reflects
the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the
Group’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments
that will ultimately vest, based on the achievement or
otherwise of non-market based performance conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately
vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a
market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective
of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided
that all other performance conditions are satisfied. 32
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
The Group has an employee share ownership plan for the
granting of non-transferable options. Shares in the Group
held by the employee share ownership plan are treated as
treasury shares and presented in the balance sheet as a
deduction from equity described as the ESOP reserve. 
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional
provisions of IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards and
has applied IFRS 2 to equity-settled awards granted after
7November 2002 that had not vested on or before
31 December 2004 only.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if
it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not
yet recognised in the income statement for the award is
expensed immediately. Any compensation paid up to the fair
value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is
deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being
treated as an expense in the income statement.
ESOP reserve
Communisis plc shares held by the Group are classified in
shareholders’ equity as the ‘ESOP reserve’ and are
recognised at cost. Consideration received for the sale of
such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference
between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being
taken to revenue reserves. No gain or loss is recognised in
the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or
cancellation of equity shares.
Leases
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in
the income statement on a straight-line basis over the
lease term.
Revenue 
Revenue represents the turnover, net of discounts, derived
from services provided to customers and sales of products
applicable to the year.
Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the consideration
received or receivable to the extent that it is probable
that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the
revenue can be reliably measured. The following specific
recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is
recognised:
Sale of goods
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and
rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the
buyer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;
this is usually on despatch by the Group. 
Provision of services
The provision of print management services includes the
sourcing and supply of printed material. Revenue from such
services is recognised when the significant risks and
rewards of ownership of the printed material have passed to
the customer for the service and the amount of revenue can
be measured reliably; this is usually on despatch by the print
supplier.
Interest
Revenue is recognised as the interest accrues using the
effective interest method (that is the rate that exactly discounts
estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of
the financial instrument to the net carrying amount).
Dividends
Finance Revenue is recognised when the Group’s right to
receive payment is established.
Material items of income and expense
When items of income and expense are material, their nature
and amount are disclosed separately on the face of the income
statement or in the notes depending upon their significance.
Income tax
Current tax
Current tax assets and liabilities for the current year are
measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or
paid to the Taxation Authorities. The tax rates and tax laws
used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax
Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method,
on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their
carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable
temporary differences except in respect of taxable
temporary differences associated with investments in
subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal of the
temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable
that the temporary differences will not reverse in the
foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the
temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of
goodwill, or from the initial recognition (other than in a
business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a
transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the
accounting profit.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible 33
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets
and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that
taxable profit will be available against which the deductible
temporary differences, and the carry-forward of unused
tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised. In
respect of deductible temporary differences associated with
investments in subsidiaries, deferred tax assets are only
recognised to the extent that it is probable that the
temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future
and taxable profit will be available against which the
temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is
reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable
profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred
income tax asset to be utilised. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at
the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the
asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates
(and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively
enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is
also recognised in equity.
Sales tax
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the
amount of sales tax except:
• where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and
services is not recoverable from the Taxation Authority, in
which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost
of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item
as applicable; and
• receivables and payables are stated with the amount of
sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to,
the Taxation Authority is included as part of receivables or
payables in the balance sheet.
Dividend distribution
The final dividend distribution to the Company’s
shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s
financial statements in the year in which the dividends are
approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends
are recognised in the year in which they are paid.
2.5 New standards and interpretations not applied
During the year, the IASB and IFRIC have issued the
following standards and interpretations with an effective
date after the date of these financial statements:
International Accounting Standards
(IAS/IFRSs) Effective date
IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007
IAS 1 Amendment – Presentation of
Financial Statements:
Capital Disclosures 1 January 2007
IAS 19 Amendment – Actuarial Gains 
and Losses, Group Plans and 
Disclosures 1 January 2006
IAS 39 Fair Value Option 1 January 2006
IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 – Transition
and Initial Recognition of Financial
Assets and Financial Liabilities
(Day 1 profits) 1 January 2006
IAS 39 Cash Flow Hedge Accounting 1 January 2006
IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 
– Financial Guarantee Contracts 1 January 2006
International Financial Reporting
Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)
IFRIC 4 Determining whether an 
arrangement contains a lease 1 January 2006
Other than as disclosed in section 2.6 below, the Group has
not early adopted these amended standards and
interpretations.
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these
standards and interpretations will have a material impact on
the Group’s financial statements in the period of initial
application.
Upon adoption of IFRS 7, the Group will have to disclose
additional information about its financial instruments, their
significance and the nature and extent of risks they give rise
to. More specifically, the Group will need to disclose the fair
value of its financial instruments and its risk exposure in
greater detail. There will be no effect on reported income or
net assets.
2.6 Early adoption
IAS 19 Amendment – Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group
Plans and Disclosures
The additional disclosure requirements as a result of the
Amendment to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits Actuarial Gains
and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures’ have been
included in the financial statements. 34
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
3 Segmental information
At 31 December 2005, the Group is organised into three main business segments: Print Management Services, Print and
Direct Mail Services and Transactional Print Services. 
The primary segment reporting format is determined to be business segments as the Group’s risks and rates of return are
affected predominantly by differences in the products and services provided. Secondary information is reported
geographically. The operating businesses are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the products and
services provided.
The Print Management Services segment provides a fully managed outsourcing solution for the delivery of printed and
communications material.
The Print and Direct Mail Services segment produces direct mailings and a wide range of printed material.
The Transactional Print Services segment produces transactional and secure printed material.
Transfer pricing between business segments is set on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third
parties. Segment revenue, segment expense and segment result include transfers between business segments. Those
transfers are eliminated on consolidation.
The Group’s geographical segments are based on the location of the Group’s assets. Sales to external customers disclosed
in geographical segments are based on the geographical location of its customers. 35
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
3 Segmental information (continued)
Business segments
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2005 are as follows:
Discontinued 
Continuing operations operations
Print Print and Transactional Corporate Total Color Group
Management Direct Mail Print expenses Solutions
Services Services Services
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue
Total revenue 148,893 125,537 27,081 – 301,511 – 301,511
Inter-segment sales (2,171) (30,263) (4,292) – (36,726) – (36,726)
External sales 146,722 95,274 22,789 – 264,785 – 264,785
Segment result before 
restructuring costs 5,710 7,205 5,377 (3,219) 15,073 – 15,073
Restructuring costs (Note 5.3) (649) (500) (448) (1,447) (3,044) – (3,044)
Loss on sale of Datadocs 
operations (Note 5.3) – (4,865) – – (4,865) – (4,865)
Profit on sale of property – – – – – 1,048 1,048
Loss on closure of label printing 
operation – – – – – (418) (418)
Profit/(loss) from operations 5,061 1,840 4,929 (4,666) 7,164 630 7,794
Net finance costs (3,065) (2) (3,067)
Profit before taxation 4,099 628 4,727
Income tax expense (2,014) (116) (2,130)
Profit for the year 2,085 512 2,597
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets 42,842 58,538 9,124 – 110,504 – 110,504
Goodwill 69,963 92,317 8,920 – 171,200 – 171,200
Unallocated assets 12,678
294,382
Segment liabilities 40,225 23,206 1,412 – 64,843 – 64,843
Unallocated liabilities 86,222
151,065
Other segment information
Capital expenditure
Property, plant and equipment 1,189 2,265 158 90 3,702 – 3,702
Intangible assets 328 98 40 73 539 – 539
Depreciation 1,542 5,503 870 456 8,371 – 8,371
Amortisation 791 44 2 25 862 – 862
The contract premium payment to Barclays Bank PLC is being amortised over the life of the contract. The directors consider
that this will benefit all the continuing segments of the business. This cost is included in corporate expenses. 
Corporate expenses include £630,000 (net of expenses incurred) received in respect of the early termination of a lease
agreement on properties let by the Group.
The unallocated assets and liabilities figures above include current and deferred tax, pension deficit, cash and borrowings. 36
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
3 Segmental information (continued)
Business segments (continued)
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2004 are as follows:
Discontinued 
Continuing operations operations
Print Print and Transactional Corporate Total Color Group
Management Direct Mail Print expenses Solutions
Services Services Services
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue
Total revenue 135,783 139,266 30,415 – 305,464 17,114 322,578
Inter-segment sales (3,271) (28,747) (3,782) – (35,800) (1,171) (36,971)
External sales 132,512 110,519 26,633 – 269,664 15,943 285,607
Segment result before 
restructuring costs 4,644 10,109 4,688 (4,175) 15,266 (962) 14,304
Restructuring costs (Note 5.3) (330) (5,914) (543) – (6,787) – (6,787)
Loss on discontinued 
operations (Note 7) – – – – – (12,377) (12,377)
Profit/(loss) from operations 4,314 4,195 4,145 (4,175) 8,479 (13,339) (4,860)
Net finance costs (2,254) (137) (2,391)
Profit/(loss) before tax 6,225 (13,476) (7,251)
Income tax expense (1,215) 1,726 511
Profit/(loss) for the year 5,010 (11,750) (6,740)
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets 41,074 60,412 9,113 – 110,599 3,599 114,198
Goodwill 69,963 94,734 8,920 – 173,617 – 173,617
Unallocated assets 21,035
308,850
Segment liabilities 36,097 26,659 2,841 – 65,597 1,904 67,501
Unallocated liabilities 91,121
158,622
Other segment information
Capital expenditure
Property, plant and equipment 1,312 5,624 896 133 7,965 98 8,063
Intangible assets 506 40 23 – 569 – 569
Acquisition of a subsidiary
Property, plant and equipment 575 – – – 575 – 575
Intangible assets 196 – – – 196 – 196
Depreciation 1,758 6,053 1,015 478 9,304 695 9,999
Amortisation 193 37 – 9 239 – 239
The unallocated assets and liabilities figures above include current and deferred tax, pension deficit, cash and borrowings. 37
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
3 Segmental information (continued)
Geographical segments 
The following tables present revenue, expenditure and certain asset information regarding the Group’s geographical segments
for the years ended 31 December 2005 and 2004.
Year ended 31 December 2005
United Continental North Total
Kingdom Europe America
£000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue
Sales to external customers 256,780 8,005 – 264,785
Less sales attributable to discontinued operations –– – –
Revenue from continuing operations 256,780 8,005 – 264,785
Inter-segment sales 36,726 – – 36,726
Segment revenue 293,506 8,005 – 301,511
Other segment information
Segment assets 108,229 2,275 – 110,504
Unallocated assets 183,878
Total assets 294,382
Capital expenditure
Property, plant and equipment 3,656 46 – 3,702
Intangible assets 539 – – 539
Year ended 31 December 2004
United Continental North Total
Kingdom Europe America
£000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue
Sales to external customers 266,426 16,629 2,552 285,607
Less sales attributable to discontinued operations (10,272) (3,119) (2,552) (15,943)
Revenue from continuing operations 256,154 13,510 – 269,664
Inter-segment sales 36,761 210 – 36,971
Segment revenue 292,915 13,720 – 306,635
Other segment information
Segment assets 113,837 361 – 114,198
Unallocated assets 194,652
Total assets 308,850
Capital expenditure
Property, plant and equipment 7,975 72 16 8,063
Intangible assets 569 – – 569 38
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
4 Revenue
Revenue disclosed in the Income Statement is analysed as follows:
2005 2004
£000 £000
Sale of goods 118,063 132,512
Print management services 146,722 153,095
264,785 285,607
Continuing operatons 264,785 269,664
Discontinued operations (sale of goods) – 15,943
Sales revenue 264,785 285,607
Finance revenue 252 351
Total revenue 265,037 285,958
No revenue was derived from exchanges of goods and services (2004 £nil).
5 Other expenses
5.1 Finance costs
2005 2004
£000 £000
Bank loans and overdrafts 2,575 1,674
Retirement benefit related costs (Note 17) 744 1,068
3,319 2,742
Continuing operations 3,317 2,605
Discontinued operations 2 137
3,319 2,742
5.2 Employee benefits expense
2005 2004
£000 £000
Wages and salaries 57,367 63,812
Social security costs 5,305 6,630
Pension costs 5,630 7,279
Expense of share-based payments 243 265
Redundancy costs 1,597 4,429
70,142 82,415
Continuing operations 70,139 76,454
Discontinued operations 3 5,961
70,142 82,415
The average monthly number of employees during the year was made up as follows: Number Number
United Kingdom 2,016 2,185
Rest of World 49 207
2,065 2,392 39
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
5 Other expenses (continued)
5.2 Employee benefits expense (continued)
Compensation of key management personnel
2005 2004
£000 £000
Short-term employee benefits 1,007 774
Share-based payments (equity settled) 84 51
Total compensation paid to key management personnel 1,091 825
Details of individual directors’ remuneration, pension entitlements and interests are provided within the Report by the Board
on Directors’ Remuneration on pages 17 to 22. Details of the Group’s pension commitments are provided in Note 17 to these
financial statements.
Details of the directors’ interests in employee share incentive plans are provided within the Report by the Board on Directors’
Remuneration on pages 17 to 22. 
5.3 Restructuring costs
2005 2004
£000 £000
Profit from operations is arrived at after charging the following items:
Loss on sale of Datadocs operation 2,448 –
Write off of unamortised goodwill relating to sale of Datadocs operation 2,417 –
4,865 –
Other restructuring costs including reorganisation and strategic review costs 3,044 6,787
7,909 6,787
5.4 Auditors’ remuneration
2005 2004
£000 £000
Audit services 325 291
Non-audit services 39 102
364 393
Non-audit services fees are principally in respect of taxation advice.
5.5 Operating lease payments
2005 2004
£000 £000
Minimum lease payments 1,586 1,723
Sub-lease receipts (208) (208)
1,378 1,515
5.6 Research and development
2005 2004
£000 £000
Research and development expenditure expensed during the year 1,114 960 40
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
6 Income Tax
The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 December 2005 and 2004 are:
2005 2004
£000 £000
Tax charged in the income statement
Current income tax
UK Corporation Tax – continuing operations 4,324 5,115
– discontinued operations 250 (1,093)
Adjustments in respect of prior years – continuing operations (1,037) (1,531)
– discontinued operations 5 –
Overseas taxation – continuing operations – (272)
– discontinued operations – (41)
Adjustments in respect of overseas
tax for prior years – discontinued operations – (46)
Total current income tax 3,542 2,132
Deferred income tax
Origination and reversal of temporary – continuing operations (1,344) (1,400)
differences – discontinued operations (71) (540)
Adjustments in respect of prior years – continuing operations 71 (703)
– discontinued operations (68) –
Total deferred tax (1,412) (2,643)
Tax charge in the consolidated income statement 2,130 (511)
The tax charge in the consolidated income statement is disclosed as follows:
Income tax expense on continuing operations 2,014 1,215
Income tax expense/(credit) on discontinued operations 116 (1,726)
2,130 (511)
Tax relating to items charged or credited to equity
Deferred income tax related to items charged or credited directly to equity
Actuarial losses on pension scheme (913) 350
Income tax expense reported in equity (913) 350
Reconciliation of the total tax charge
The tax expense in the income statement for the year is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30%
(2004 30%). The differences are reconciled below:
2005 2004
£000 £000
Accounting profit before tax from continuing operations 4,099 6,225
Profit/(loss) before tax from discontinued operations 628 (13,476)
Accounting profit/(loss) before income tax 4,727 (7,251) 41
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
6 Income Tax (continued)
Reconciliation of the total tax charge (continued)
2005 2004
£000 £000
At UK statutory income tax rate of 30% (2004 30%) 1,418 (2,175)
Disposal of goodwill not deductible for tax purposes 628 1,545
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 136 158
Non-deductible loss on disposal of business 756 841
Unrelieved overseas losses 136 1,448
Share based payments 140 8
Change in deferred tax in respect of rolled over capital gains (55) (56)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (1,029) (2,280)
2,130 (511)
Unrecognised tax losses 
The Group has losses which arose outside of the UK of £217,000 (2004 £8,750,000) that are available for offset against future
taxable profits of the companies in which the losses arose. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these
losses as they may not be used to offset taxable profits elsewhere in the Group. The losses at 31 December 2004 arose
principally in the Datadocs operation which was sold in the year.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows:
2005 2004
£000 £000
Deferred tax asset
Accelerated capital allowances (2,174) (2,855)
Other short term timing differences 593 696
Losses available for offset against future taxable income 406 288
Held over capital gains (2,313) (2,313)
Capital gains rolled over into replacement assets (1,153) (1,208)
Share based payments 6 72
Pensions 13,571 12,904
Customer relationships intangible asset (519) (628)
8,417 6,956
The realisation of the above deferred tax asset is dependant upon the anticipated continuing profitability of the Group.
The deferred tax credit included in the Group Income Statement is as follows:
2005 2004
£000 £000
Accelerated capital allowances (681) (946)
Other short term timing differences 103 117
Losses available for offset against future taxable income (118) 695
Held over capital gains – (1,437)
Capital gains rolled over into replacement assets (55) (56)
Share based payments 66 (72)
Pensions (618) (917)
Customer relationships intangible asset (109) (27)
(1,412) (2,643) 42
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
7 Discontinued operation
On 31 March 2004 the Company disposed of the Colour Cards businesses to Colwell Industries Inc.
In December 2004, Communisis plc took the decision to commence the closure of Communisis Gateshead Limited (the label
printing operation). Communisis Gateshead Limited manufactured can and bottle labels and reel-fed flexible products and was
part of the Color Solutions business segment which, except for Communisis Gateshead, was disposed of in March 2004
when Communisis took the decision to exit the segment.
On 27 May 2005 the Gateshead property was sold and the exit from the Color Solutions segment was completed.
As at 31 December 2005 and 2004 the Color Solutions businesses are classified as discontinued.
The results for the Color Solutions businesses are presented below:
2005 2004
£000 £000
Revenue – 15,943
Operating expenses before non-recurring items – (16,402)
Stock loss from flood damage – (503)
Total operating loss – (962)
Loss on closure of the label printing operation (381) (4,472)
Additional Colour Cards costs (37) –
Write off of unamortised goodwill relating to the closure of the label printing operation – (403)
Net finance costs (2) (137)
Loss before tax on discontinued operations before remeasurement to fair value 
less costs to sell or on disposal (420) (5,974)
Tax on loss on discontinued operations before remeasurement to fair value less costs to 
sell or on disposal 115 1,726
Loss after tax on discontinued operations (305) (4,248)
Profit on sale of property 1,048 –
Loss on sale of Colour Cards businesses – (2,059)
Write off of unamortised goodwill relating to the sale of Colour Cards businesses – (4,747)
Foreign currency translation reserve transferred from reserves on sale of Colour Cards businesses – (696)
Profit/(loss) before tax on remeasurement to fair value less costs to sell or
on disposal 1,048 (7,502)
Tax on profit/(loss) on remeasurement to fair value less costs to sell or on disposal (231) –
Profit/(loss) after tax for the year from discontinued operations 512 (11,750)
The net cash flows incurred by Color Solutions are as follows:
Net cash inflow/(outflow)
Operating 999 (3,187)
Investing 1,719 647
Financing 185 (40)
Earnings per share on discontinued activities (Note 11)
– basic for profit/(loss) for the year 0.36p (8.18p) 
– diluted for profit/(loss) for the year 0.36p (8.18p)
The profit of discontinued operations in 2005 relates principally to the sale of the property of the label printing operation which
was closed in December 2004. Costs in 2004 relate to the sale of the Colour Cards businesses in March 2004 and the closure
of the label printing business in December 2004. 43
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
8 Acquisition of subsidiary 
The following acquisition took place in the year ended 31 December 2004. There were no acquisitions in the year ended
31 December 2005.
On 9 September 2004 the Company acquired the whole issued share capital of Dataform Group Limited. Details of the
consideration paid and book values of assets and liabilities acquired are set out below. The book values are in line with the
fair values thus no adjustments have been made. The transaction was accounted for under the acquisition method.
There would be no adjustments under IFRS between the carrying amounts and the fair values.
£000
Intangible assets 494
Property, plant and equipment 575
Bank overdraft (1,524)
Inventories 2,401
Trade and other receivables 4,800
Trade and other payables (6,054)
Income tax receivable 175
Provisions for liabilities (7)
Borrowings (4,216)
Fair values of net liabilities acquired (3,356)
Goodwill (Note 14) 17,191
Separately identifiable intangibles (Note 14) 2,182
Deferred tax on separately identifiable intangibles (655)
Consideration 15,362
Satisfied by:
Cash 15,280
Shares issued at market value (Note 22) 82
Total consideration 15,362
The net cash outflow arising from the acquisition was as follows:
Cash consideration, as above 15,280
Bank overdraft acquired, as above 1,524
Net outflow of cash 16,804
The number of shares issued on acquisition was 78,093 at a fair value of £1.05 per share.
From 1 January 2004 all acquisitions are required to be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3. Accordingly, the Group has
identified within Dataform’s business separately identifiable intangibles in relation to the existing customer base of £2,182,000
which will be amortised over six years from acquisition. Goodwill has arisen upon recognition of the deferred tax liability on
separately identifiable intangibles.
Included within Trade and other payables was £1,137,000 deferred consideration on an acquisition made by Dataform Group
Limited prior to the acquisition by Communisis plc. This has been disclosed separately in the cash flow statement. 44
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
9 Disposal of subsidiary
The following disposal took place in the year ended 31 December 2004. There were no business disposals in the year ended
31 December 2005.
On 31 March 2004 the Company disposed of the Colour Cards businesses to Colwell Industries Inc. The loss on disposal is
detailed below. The cash effects of the disposal are noted below.
£000
Intangible assets 4,747
Property, plant and equipment 6,077
Cash and cash equivalents 578
Inventories 5,315
Trade and other receivables 5,163
Trade and other payables (3,559)
Income tax payable (8)
Net assets disposed of 18,313
Disposal costs 1,069
Loss on disposal (Note 7) (6,806)
Gross Proceeds 12,576
Satisfied by:
Cash 9,489
Deferred consideration (Note 19) 3,087
12,576
The net cash inflow arising in the year of disposal from the disposal was as follows:
Consideration received in the year 9,643
Disposal costs paid in the year (1,069)
Cash disposed of with subsidiary (578)
7,996 45
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
10 Disposal of subsidiary included within continuing operations
On 10 May 2005, the Group entered into a sale agreement to dispose of Communisis Europe BV (‘Datadocs’), which was
part of the Print and Direct Mail segment of the Group’s divisions. Print and Direct Mail activities continue in the United
Kingdom and therefore the disposal of Datadocs is included within continuing operations. 
Datadocs supplied business forms to Northern Europe and the disposed operations comprised the manufacturing facility in
Den Bosch, The Netherlands and a sales office in Vilvoorde, Belgium, and all related staff.
The net assets of Datadocs at the date of disposal were as follows:
2005
£000
Intangible assets 2,417
Property, plant and equipment 756
Inventories 1,478
Trade and other receivables 1,956
Trade and other payables (1,895)
Exchange loss on disposal 153
Loss on disposal 4,865
Total consideration – 46
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
11 Earnings per share
2005 2004
£000 £000
Basic and diluted earnings per share is calculated as follows:
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent – continuing operations 2,085 5,010
Profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders of the parent – discontinued operations 512 (11,750)
Profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders of the parent 2,597 (6,740)
2005 2004
000 000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (excluding treasury shares) 
for basic earnings per share 143,710 143,625
Effect of dilution:
Share options 244 326
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (excluding treasury shares) 
adjusted for the effect of dilution 143,954 143,951
309,628 (2004 309,628) shares were held in trust at 31 December 2005.
Earnings per share from continuing operations before restructuring costs
Net profit from continuing operations before restructuring costs and attributable to equity holders of the parent is derived as
follows:
2005 2004
£000 £000
Profit after taxation from continuing operations 2,085 5,010
Restructuring costs (Note 5.3) 7,909 6,787
Taxation on restructuring costs (913) (738)
Profit after taxation from continuing operations excluding restructuring costs 9,081 11,059
Adjusted earnings per share
Basic 6.32p 7.70p
Diluted 6.31p 7.68p
Discontinued operations
Earnings per share for discontinued operations (Note 7) is derived from the net profit/(loss) attributable to the equity holders
of the parent from discontinued operations of £512,000 (2004 loss £11,750,000) divided by the weighted average number of
ordinary shares for both basic and diluted amounts per the table above.
12 Dividends paid and proposed
2005 2004
Declared and paid during the year £000 £000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2003 of 3.227p per share 4,634
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2004 of 1.775p per share 2,550
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2004 of 3.549p per share 5,100
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2005 of 1.953p per share 2,807
7,907 7,184
Proposed for approval at AGM (not recognised as a liability as at 31 December)
Final equity dividend on ordinary shares for 2005 of 3.897p (2004 3.549p) per share 5,600 5,100 47
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
Plant
Long Short equipment
Freehold leasehold leasehold and motor
property property property vehicles Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
13 Property, plant and equipment
Cost
At 1 January 2004 20,146 5,913 – 63,873 89,932
Additions 127 – – 7,936 8,063
Assets included in discontinued operations and other 
disposals (2,859) (1,859) – (12,217) (16,935)
Acquisition of a subsidiary – – 209 2,479 2,688
Exchange adjustment (129) (44) – (511) (684)
At 31 December 2004 17,285 4,010 209 61,560 83,064
Additions 59 13 – 3,630 3,702
Assets included in discontinued operations and other
disposals (684) – – (5,227) (5,911)
Reclassification to non-current assets classified as held
for sale (3,946) (429) – (57) (4,432)
Exchange adjustment (43) – – (200) (243)
At 31 December 2005 12,671 3,594 209 59,706 76,180
Depreciation
At 1 January 2004 1,489 1,215 – 33,271 35,975
Depreciation charge for the year 462 209 4 9,324 9,999
Exchange adjustment (44) (92) – (385) (521)
Acquisition of a subsidiary – – 131 1,982 2,113
Disposals (258) (368) – (6,495) (7,121)
At 31 December 2004 1,649 964 135 37,697 40,445
Depreciation charge for the year 454 169 14 7,734 8,371
Exchange adjustment (9) – – (171) (180)
Reclassification to non-current assets classified as held
for sale (952) (94) – (42) (1,088)
Disposals (129) – – (3,525) (3,654)
At 31 December 2005 1,013 1,039 149 41,693 43,894
Net book value at 31 December 2005 11,658 2,555 60 18,013 32,286
Net book value at 31 December 2004 15,636 3,046 74 23,863 42,619
Net book value at 1 January 2004 18,657 4,698 – 30,602 53,957
The Group’s overdraft and committed facilities are secured by cross guarantee arrangements with the relevant banks
(Note 23). 48
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
Software Customer
assets Goodwill relationships Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
14 Intangible assets
Cost
At 1 January 2004 1,670 195,049 – 196,719 
Acquisition of a subsidiary 1,033 17,191 2,182 20,406
Additions 569 – – 569
Disposals – (6,327) – (6,327)
At 31 December 2004 3,272 205,913 2,182 211,367
Additions 539 – – 539
Disposals (69) (3,000) – (3,069)
At 31 December 2005 3,742 202,913 2,182 208,837
Amortisation
At 1 January 2004 1,458 33,473 – 34,931
Acquisition of a subsidiary 837 – – 837
Amortisation during the year 148 – 91 239
Disposals – (1,177) – (1,177)
At 31 December 2004 2,443 32,296 91 34,830
Amortisation during the year 498 – 364 862
Disposals (69) (583) – (652)
At 31 December 2005 2,872 31,713 455 35,040
Net book value at 31 December 2005 870 171,200 1,727 173,797
Net book value at 31 December 2004 829 173,617 2,091 176,537
Net book value at 1 January 2004 212 161,576 – 161,788 
As from 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, goodwill is no longer amortised but is now subject to annual
impairment testing. 
Customer relationships were acquired through business combinations and are amortised evenly over their useful economic
lives of six years and have five years left to be amortised.
Software assets are amortised evenly over their useful economic lives of between three and five years and have between one
and five years left to be amortised. 49
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
15 Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to three cash-
generating units, which are reportable segments, as follows:
• Print Management Services
• Print and Direct Mail Services
• Transactional Print Services
These represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
The recoverable amount of all three units has been determined based on a value in use calculation using risk-adjusted cash
flow projections based on financial budgets approved by the Board. The approach and key assumptions are consistent to
those used in prior years.
Carrying amount of goodwill allocated to cash-generating units:
2005 2004
£000 £000
Print Management Services 69,963 69,963
Print and Direct Mail Services 92,317 94,734
Transactional Print Services 8,920 8,920
171,200 173,617
There are no other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations
Discount rates
The discount rate applied to the cash flow projections is 10%. This is the Group’s weighted average cost of capital adjusted
to reflect market assessment of specific risks associated with the segment cash flows.
Period over which projected cash flows are based on approved financial budgets
The period over which cash flows are projected based on financial budgets approved by the Board is three years in respect
of Print Management Services cash-generating unit and one year in respect of Print and Direct Mail Services and Transactional
Print Services cash-generating units.
Growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the budget period
The growth rate used to extrapolate cash flow projections beyond the budget period for all cash-generating units is below the
long term average growth rate for the UK and is considered to be a representative rate for the markets to which these
segments are dedicated.  
Growth rates have been assessed individually for each cash-generating unit and reflect both past experience and the outcome
of contract re-negotiations with significant customers.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
Management believe that it is unlikely that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions would cause the carrying
value of any of the cash-generating units to exceed its recoverable amount. 50
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
16 Share based payments
The Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 
Certain directors and management are eligible to participate in the above scheme at the discretion of the Remuneration
Committee. The exercise price of the options is equal to the market value of the shares on the date of grant. In respect of
the options granted prior to 1 January 2005, except those granted to the Chief Executive discussed below, the options vest
if the percentage increase in normalised earnings (i.e. before amortisation, restructuring costs and other non-recurring
items) per share over any three consecutive financial years exceeds the percentage increase in the Retail Prices Index over
that period by an average of at least 3% per annum. The contractual life of each option granted is ten years. There are no
cash settlement alternatives.
In respect of options granted since 1 January 2005 if the performance condition is not met within three years from the date
of grant, the options lapse.
For options granted to the Chief Executive prior to 1 January 2005 the options vest if the TSR of the Company, as compared
to the TSR performance of similar companies in the Support Services sector of the FTSE All Share Index (excluding FTSE 100
companies), is at or above the median level over a three year period. If the target is not achieved at the end of the initial three
year period it will be retested for one further year only. Thereafter the options will lapse.
For options granted to the Chief Executive since 1 January 2005, if the performance condition is not fulfilled within the three
year period from the date of grant, the options lapse.
The Communisis Matched Award Plan
Certain directors and management are eligible to participate in this plan at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
However, only one grant has been made under this scheme, on 23 September 2003, to the Chief Executive, and the
Remuneration Committee does not intend to grant any more awards under this plan in its present format.
The Company match the investment made by the participant on a share-for-share basis. There is no exercise price. The
awards vest three years from the date of grant of the award provided the participant is still employed by the Company and
that they continue to hold the invested shares.
The Communisis Savings Related Share Option Scheme
All UK employees (including directors) are eligible to participate in the Communisis Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
The exercise price of the options is equal to the market price of the shares less a maximum discount of 20%. The options
vest on either the third or fifth anniversary of the commencement of the savings period. Any options which have not been
exercised within six months of the vesting date lapse.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share. 51
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
16 Share based payments (continued)
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of, and movements in, share options
during the year.
2005 2005 2004 2004
Number WAEP£ Number WAEP£
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
1
8,706,923 1.22634 10,935,501 1.23616
Granted during the year 1,023,797 1.14500 308,057 1.05500
Forfeited during the year (57,717) 1.28540 (2,376,361) 1.24765
Exercised during the year
2
(41,910) 0.95138 (7,103) 0.91000
Expired during the year (2,172,852) 1.28802 (153,171) 1.26692
Outstanding at the end of the year
1
7,458,241 1.19829 8,706,923 1.22634
Exercisable at the end of the year 1,279,063 1.51490 1,277,853 1.55590
1
Included within this balance are options over 2,792,402 shares (2004 4,381,867 shares) that have not been recognised in accordance with IFRS 2
as the options were granted on or before 7 November 2002. These options have not been subsequently modified and therefore do not need to be
accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2.
2
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised was £1.12 (2004 £1.11).
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2005 is 5.71 years
(2004 5.66 years).
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was £0.1972 (2004 £0.1997).
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was £0.91–£1.76675 (2004 £0.91–£1.76675).
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option
pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The following table lists
the inputs to the model used for the years ended 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2004.
2005 2004
Dividend yield (%) 5.34 5.51
Expected share price volatility (%) 29.00 30.50
Historical volatility (%) 29.00 30.50
Risk free rate (%) 4.53 4.50
Expected life of option (years) 3 4
Weighted average share price (£) 1.145 1.055
The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns which may
occur. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also
not necessarily be the actual outcome. The historical and expected volatilities reflect the volatility of the share price of both
Communisis plc and comparator companies.
The carrying amount of the share option reserve relating to the equity settled options at 31 December 2005 is £602,000
(2004 £359,000). 52
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
17 Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans
The Group operates defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans.
Defined contribution schemes
The Group operates UK defined contribution benefit schemes within a number of Group companies. The assets of the
schemes are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees. 
Group companies are required to contribute a specified percentage of payroll costs to the retirement benefit scheme to fund
the benefits. The only obligation of the Group with respect to the retirement benefit scheme is to make the specified
contributions.
The total cost charged to income of £328,000 (2004 £631,000) represents contributions payable to these schemes by the
Group at rates specified in the rules of the plans. As at 31 December 2005, contributions of £4,900 (2004 £6,500) due in
respect of the reporting period had not been paid over to the schemes.
The Group expects to contribute £375,000 to the defined contribution pension scheme in 2006.
Defined benefit schemes
The Group operates a defined benefit scheme for qualifying employees of the Group as follows: 
Final salary
The final salary section provides a pension of one sixtieth or one eightieth (depending on the level of employee contribution)
of final salary at normal retirement age for each year of pensionable service. This is subject to the benefit not exceeding one
thirtieth of the Inland Revenue earnings cap, which applies to members who joined the Plan on or after 1 June 1989, for each
year of pensionable service. Normal retirement age is sixty-five.
Career average revalued earnings
The career average revalued earnings section provides an accrual each year of a unit of one forty-fifth, one sixtieth or one
eightieth (depending on the level of employee contribution) of pensionable salary for that year. The unit is then revalued in each
subsequent year by the rate of growth in the Retail Prices Index until normal retirement age. The normal retirement age under
this section is sixty-five except for certain executives whose normal retirement age is set at sixty-two, where the accrual rate
is one forty-fifth.
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement and in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income
and Expense for the year are analysed as follows:
2005 2004
£000 £000
Recognised in the Income Statement
Current service cost (5,302) (6,648)
Recognised in arriving at profit from operations (5,302) (6,648)
Expected return on scheme assets 6,860 5,809
Interest cost on scheme liabilities (7,604) (6,877)
Other finance cost (744) (1,068)
Taken to the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
Actual return on scheme assets 18,192 9,587
Less: expected return on scheme assets (6,860) (5,809)
11,332 3,778
Other actuarial gains and losses (14,375) (4,945)
Actuarial losses recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense (3,043) (1,167)
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since 1 January 2004 in the Consolidated Statement of
Recognised Income and Expense is a loss of £4,210,000 (2004 loss £1,167,000).
The following tables summarise the components of net benefit expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement
and the funded status and amounts recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet for the respective plans. 53
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
17 Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans (continued)
Net benefit expense (recognised in employee benefits expense/finance costs)
2005 2004
£000 £000
Current service cost (5,302) (6,648)
Interest cost on scheme liabilities (7,604) (6,877)
Expected return on scheme assets 6,860 5,809
Net benefit expense (6,046) (7,716)
Actual return on plan assets 18,192 9,587
Benefit asset/(liability)
2005 2004
£000 £000
Defined benefit obligation (164,402) (139,195)
Fair value of plan assets 126,665 96,531
Net pension deficit (37,737) (42,664)
The defined benefit obligation comprises £164 million (2004 £139 million) arising from a partly funded plan.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
2005 2004
£000 £000
Opening defined benefit obligation 139,195 122,887
Interest cost 7,604 6,877
Current service cost 5,302 6,648
Plan participants’ contributions 2,816 2,450
Benefits paid (4,890) (4,612)
Actuarial losses on obligations 14,375 4,945
Closing defined benefit obligation 164,402 139,195
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
2005 2004
£000 £000
Opening fair value of plan assets 96,531 83,897
Expected return 6,860 5,809
Contributions by employer (including £10 million special contribution) 14,016 5,209
Plan participants’ contributions 2,816 2,450
Benefits paid (4,890) (4,612)
Actuarial gains on assets 11,332 3,778
Closing fair value of plan assets 126,665 96,531 54
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
17 Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans (continued)
The Group expects to contribute £4 million to the defined benefit pension scheme in 2006.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of the fair value of total plan assets as at 31 December were as follows:
2005 2004
%%
Asset category
Equities 59 67
Bonds/Gilts/Cash 35 32
Property 5 0
Other 1 1
100 100
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption, the Company considered the current level of
expected return on risk free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with
the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. The
expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the asset allocation to develop an expected long-term rate
of return on assets of 6.0% for the portfolio as at 31 December 2005 (2004 6.6%).
The principal weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations for the Group’s plan are shown below:
2005 2004
%%
Discount rate 4.8 5.4
Rate of compensation increase 4.0 4.2
Inflation assumption 2.5 2.7
Assumed life expectancy for a member aged 65 is as follows:
2005 2004
Years Years
Mortality rates
Current pensioners
Male 16.9 16.9
Female 19.9 19.9
Future pensioners
Male 19.4 19.4
Female 22.4 22.4
The principal weighted average assumptions used in determining net pension cost for the Group’s plan are shown below:
2005 2004
%%
Discount rate 5.4 5.5
Expected rate of return on assets:
Equities 7.1 7.5
Bonds 4.8 5.4
Other 4.1 4.5
Rate of compensation increase 4.2 4.1
Amounts for the current and previous two years are as follows:
2005 2004 2003
£000 £000 £000
Present value of defined benefit obligation (164,402) (139,195) (122,887)
Fair value of plan assets 126,665 96,531 84,647
Deficit (37,737) (42,664) (38,240)
Experience adjustments on plan assets 11,332 3,778 4,266
Changes in assumptions (14,375) (4,945) (12,148) 55
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
18 Inventories
2005 2004
£000 £000
Raw materials 3,827 3,052
Work in progress 5,759 8,141
Finished goods 3,503 4,789
13,089 15,982
19 Trade and other receivables
2005 2004
£000 £000
Trade receivables 36,821 41,297
Prepayments, accrued income and contract premiums 16,850 11,500
53,671 52,797
Current 47,616 48,870
Non current 6,055 3,927
53,671 52,797
Included within prepayments, accrued income and contract premium is deferred consideration on the sale of the Colour Cards
business (Note 9) of £3,129,000 (2004 £2,798,000) which is interest bearing at a rate of Prime plus 4%, and contract
premiums of £4,865,000 (2004 £2,865,000).
Other trade and other receivables are non-interest bearing and generally on 30-90 days terms.
20 Cash and cash equivalents
2005 2004
£000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 9,778 12,963
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is
£9,778,000 (2004 £12,963,000).
For the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 December:
2005 2004
£000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 9,778 12,963
Bank overdrafts (3,751) (3,577)
6,027 9,386
The bank overdrafts are secured by cross guarantee arrangements with the relevant banks.
21 Non-current assets classified as held for sale
2005 2004
£000 £000
Properties held for sale 3,344 996
Properties held for sale are surplus to the Group’s requirements and are expected to be sold within twelve months. 56
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
22 Issued capital
2005 2004
Number of Number of
shares £000 shares £000
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 25p each 180,000,000 45,000 180,000,000 45,000
Allotted and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 25p each 144,032,077 36,008 143,990,167 35,999
Shares allotted during the year 2005 2004
Nominal Net Nominal Net
value Consideration value Consideration
Number £000 £000 Number £000 £000
On exercise of options 41,910 9 35 7,068 2 7
In relation to the acquisition of
Dataform Group Limited –– – 78,093 20 82
Total 41,910 9 35 85,161 22 89
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
The Company has three share schemes under which options to subscribe for the Company’s shares have been granted to
employees (Note 16). 57
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
23 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Effective 2005 2004
interest rate % Maturity £000 £000
Current
Bank overdrafts Base rate + 1 On demand 3,751 3,577 
Other loans:
£10,000,000 bank loan (2004: £15,000,000) LIBOR + 0.675 May 2006 5,000 5,000 
£22,000,000 bank loan LIBOR + 0.5 September 2006 2,500 2,500 
£10,000,000 bank loan LIBOR + 0.55 March 2006 1,000 –
12,251 11,077
Non-current
£10,000,000 bank loan (2004: £15,000,000) LIBOR + 0.675 May 2007 5,000 10,000 
£22,000,000 bank loan LIBOR + 0.5 2007–2009 19,500 19,500 
£10,000,000 bank loan LIBOR + 0.55 2007–2010 9,000 – 
33,500 29,500 
Bank overdrafts
The bank overdrafts are principally denominated in Sterling and bear interest at rates set by reference to the UK Base Rate.
The overdrafts are secured by cross guarantee arrangements with the relevant banks.
£10,000,000 bank loan
This loan is secured by a guarantee from certain Group companies and is repayable in two equal instalments due on 10 May
2006 and 10 May 2007.
£22,000,000 bank loan
This loan is secured by a guarantee from certain Group companies and repayable in annual instalments of £2,500,000 to
9 September 2008, with the balance due on 9 September 2009.
£10,000,000 bank loan
This loan is secured by a cross guarantee arrangement and is repayable in annual instalments of £1,000,000 to 21 March
2009, with the balance due on 21 March 2010.
At 31 December 2005, the Group had available £500,000 (2004 £3,000,000) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in
respect of which all conditions precedent had been met.
24 Provisions
Business Onerous
restructuring leases Total
£000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2005 794 1,031 1,825
Arising during the year – 89 89
Utilised (614) (293) (907)
Unused amounts reversed – (555) (555)
Transferred in the year (180) 180 –
At 31 December 2005 – 452 452
Current 2005 –44 44
Non-current 2005 – 408 408
– 452 452
Current 2004 794 333 1,127
Non-current 2004 – 698 698
794 1,031 1,825 58
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
24 Provisions (continued)
Business restructuring
The remaining provision for business restructuring represented a remaining onerous lease and has therefore been transferred
in the year to onerous leases.
Onerous leases
The provision for onerous leases relates primarily to the estimated costs for the rental obligations of surplus premises which
are long term in nature. This is expected to be utilised over the life of the leases (maximum 7 years). The final outcome depends
upon the ability of the Group to sublet the related properties.
25 Trade and other payables (current)
2005 2004
£000 £000
Trade payables 41,916 49,213
Other payables 6,799 7,726
Taxation and social security 2,034 4,147
Accruals and deferred income 10,444 6,083
Interest payable 382 262
61,575 67,431
Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and normally settled on 60-day terms.
26 Obligations under leases
Operating lease commitments – Group as lessee
Motor vehicles and machinery leases
The Group has entered into commercial leases on motor vehicles and items of machinery. These leases have an average life
of between three and five years.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows:
2005 2004
£000 £000
No later than one year 179 153
After one year but no more than five years 1,010 920
After five years – –
1,189 1,073
Land and building leases
The Group has entered into commercial land and building leases. These leases have an average life of between four and
seventy-seven years. 59
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
26 Obligations under leases (continued)
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows:
2005 2004
£000 £000
No later than one year 27 9
After one year but no more than five years 629 462
After five years 13,895 16,360
14,551 16,831
Operating lease commitments – Group as lessor
The Group has entered into commercial land and building leases consisting of the Group’s surplus office and manufacturing
buildings. These leases have an average life of between four and eight years.
Surplus land and building leases
Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows:
2005 2004
£000 £000
No later than one year – –
After one year but no more than five years – –
After five years 271 1,349
271 1,349
Sale and leaseback transaction
In June 2005 the Group sold a number of its motor vehicles to its fleet administrator at net book value and agreed to lease
these vehicles back over a period of between one and four years. The operating lease commitment in respect of these vehicles
is included in the figures above.
27 Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank loans and overdrafts, and cash and short term deposits. The main
purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Group’s operations. The Group has various other financial
assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be
undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are cash flow interest rate risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency
risk.
Cash flow interest rate risk
The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s long term debt obligations
with a floating interest rate.
All borrowings are held on floating rate terms and given the current level of borrowings the interest rate risk of the Group is
not considered significant.
Liquidity risk
The Group operates a policy of retaining a mix of medium term funding of committed floating rate facilities supplemented by
uncommitted facilities. The directors consider this funding structure to be adequate for the Group’s current requirements. 60
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
27 Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued)
Foreign currency risk
The Group operates principally in the UK with approximately 3% (2004 5%) of sales arising from companies operating with
functional currencies other than sterling. The value of any currency exposure is not material to the Group. The Group does not
engage in material hedging activities.
Credit risk
The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties. Generally, customers who wish to trade on credit terms are
subject to credit verification procedures. In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result
that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from the default of the
counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments (Note 19). As at the balance sheet
date there is a concentration of credit risk in relation to the deferred consideration on the sale of the Colour Cards business
(Note 19). There is no other significant concentration of credit risk at the balance sheet date.
Since the Group trades with recognised third parties only, there is no requirement for collateral.
Details of the Group’s treasury management process is provided within the financial review section of this annual report on
pages 6 and 7. 
28 Financial instruments
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity, of the Group’s financial instruments that are exposed to interest
rate risk:
Year end 31 December 2005
Floating rate
Book Fair
Value Value
More
Within 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 than 5
1 year years years years years years Total Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash assets 9,778––––– 9,778 9,778
Bank overdraft (3,751) ––––– (3,751) (3,751)
£10,000,000 bank loan (5,000) (5,000) –––– (10,000) (10,000)
£22,000,000 bank loan (2,500) (2,500) (2,500) (14,500) – – (22,000) (22,000)
£10,000,000 bank loan (1,000) (1,000) (1,000) (1,000) (6,000) – (10,000) (10,000)
Year end 31 December 2004
Floating rate
Book Fair
Value Value
More
Within 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 than 5
1 year years years years years years Total Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash assets 12,963––––– 12,963 12,963
Bank overdraft (3,577) ––––– (3,577) (3,577)
£15,000,000 bank loan (5,000) (5,000) (5,000) – – – (15,000) (15,000)
£22,000,000 bank loan (2,500) (2,500) (2,500) (2,500) (12,000) – (22,000) (22,000) 61
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
29 Capital commitments
At 31 December 2005 the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and
equipment amounting to £877,000 (2004 £433,000).
30 Events after the balance sheet date
On 16 January 2006 the Group acquired all of the net assets of HSBC’s UK bank statement production business for a
consideration of £2,275,000. On the same day, the Group signed a 10 year outsourcing contract for statement production
with HSBC and HSBC statement production staff transferred to the Group.
Further information relating to this acquisition has not been provided in the financial statements as the timing of the transaction
makes it impracticable for disclosure to be made with reasonable certainty. 62
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
31 Cash generated from operations
2005 2004
£000 £000
Continuing operations
Profit before tax 4,099 6,225 
Adjustments for:
– depreciation and amortisation 9,233 9,545 
– amortisation of contract premium payment 1,000 1,000 
– excess of Income Statement pension charge over contributions paid 1,286 2,189 
– loss on sale of Datadocs operation 4,865 – 
– restructuring costs 3,044 6,787
– profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (49) (82)
– share-based payment charge 240 259 
– net finance cost 3,065 2,254 
Additional contribution to the defined benefit pension plan (10,000) – 
Cash effect of restructuring continuing operations (2,942) (7,613)
Changes in working capital:
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 1,361 (470)
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (5,101) 200 
(Decrease)/increase in payables (3,926) 1,133 
Cash inflow from operating activities on continuing operations 6,175 21,427
Discontinued operations
Profit/(loss) before tax 628 (13,476)
Adjustments for:
– depreciation and amortisation – 719
– loss on sale of Colour Cards operation – 7,308
– loss on closure of label printing operation – 4,850
– profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (1,048) (9)
– exchange difference transferred from reserves – 696
– share-based payment charge 3 6
– net finance costs 2 137
Cash effect of closure of label printing operation – (2,432)
Changes in working capital:
Decrease in inventories – 100 
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 3,327 (541)
Decrease in trade and other payables (2,679) (453)
Cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities on discontinued operations 233 (3,095)
Cash generated from operations 6,408 18,332 63
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
32 Consolidated changes in equity
Share Cumulative
Issued Share Merger option ESOP translation Retained Total
capital premium reserve reserve reserves adjustment earnings equity
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance as at 1 Jan 2004 35,977 152,256 11,365 94 (374) – (34,450) 164,868
Currency translation losses
in year ––––– (949) – (949)
Foreign currency translation
difference transferred from
reserves on sale of Colour
Cards businesses ––––– 696 – 696
Actuarial losses immediately
recognised ––––– – (1,167) (1,167)
Deferred tax recognised on
actuarial losses in year ––––– – 350 350
Net loss recognised directly
in equity ––––– (253) (817) (1,070)
Loss for the year ––––– – (6,740) (6,740)
Total recognised loss for the year ––––– (253) (7,557) (7,810)
Employee share option schemes:
– value of services provided – – – 265 – – – 265
Dividend ––––– – (7,184) (7,184)
New share capital issued 22–––– –– 22
Share premium on new share
capital – 5 – – – – – 5
Merger reserve arising on issue
of new share capital – – 62 – – – – 62
Balance as at 31 Dec 2004 35,999 152,261 11,427 359 (374) (253) (49,191) 150,228
Currency translation gains in year ––––– 98 – 98
Foreign currency translation
difference transferred from
reserves on sale of Datadocs
business ––––– 153 – 153
Actuarial losses immediately
recognised ––––– – (3,043) (3,043)
Deferred tax recognised on
actuarial losses in year ––––– – 913 913
Net loss recognised directly in
equity ––––– 251 (2,130) (1,879)
Profit for the year ––––– – 2,597 2,597
Total recognised profit for the year––––– 251 467 718
Employee share option schemes:
– value of services provided – – – 243 – – – 243
Dividend ––––– – (7,907) (7,907)
New share capital issued 9 –––– –– 9
Share premium on new share
capital – 26––– –– 26
Balance as at 31 Dec 2005 36,008 152,287 11,427 602 (374) (2) (56,631) 143,317 64
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
32 Consolidated changes in equity (continued)
ESOP reserve
The ESOP reserve is used to record the investment in Communisis plc shares held by the employee share ownership plan
(‘ESOP’). The plan is for the benefit of all employees and can be used in conjunction with any of the Group’s share schemes.
The ESOP reserve held 309,628 shares at 31 December 2005 (2004 309,628) and the market value of these shares was
£238,000 (2004 £364,000).
Merger reserve
This represents the share premium attaching to those shares issued upon the acquisition of subsidiaries. 
Share option reserve
The share option reserve is used to record the effect on equity of the net effect of the grant, exercise and lapse of share
options. On exercise or lapse, a transfer is made from this reserve to retained earnings.
Cumulative translation adjustment
The cumulative translation adjustment reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial
statements of foreign subsidiaries. This reserve was reset to zero on 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
33 Related party disclosures
During the year the directors were remunerated for services provided to the Group. This is disclosed in the Report on
Directors’ Remuneration. The directors are considered to be key management personnel.
There were no other related party transactions in the year.
34 Investments
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Communisis plc and all subsidiary undertakings.
The Group’s main subsidiary operations are listed in the following table. 
Country of % equity interest
Name incorporation 2005 and 2004 Immediate parent
Communisis UK Limited United Kingdom 100 Communisis plc
Communisis Dataform Limited United Kingdom 100 Communisis plc
Communisis Dataform South West Limited United Kingdom 100 Communisis Dataform Limited
Print Directive Limited United Kingdom 100 Communisis Dataform Limited
Econo-mailer Limited United Kingdom 100 Communisis Dataform Limited
Wakefield Holdings Limited (agency company) United Kingdom 100 Communisis UK Limited
Communisis Europe Limited United Kingdom 100 Communisis plc
Communisis France SARL France 100 Communisis Europe Limited
Communisis Nederland BV Netherlands 100 Communisis Europe Limited
Communisis Spain SL Spain 100 Communisis Europe Limited
35 Explanation of transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’)
35.1 Basis of Transition to IFRS
35.1.1 Application of IFRS 1 First-time adoption rules of IFRS
The Group’s financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 are the first annual financial statements that
comply with IFRS. These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the stated Group accounting
policies. The Group has applied IFRS 1 in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
The transition date of Communisis plc was 1 January 2004. The Group prepared its opening IFRS balance sheet at
that date. The Group’s IFRS adoption date is 1 January 2005.
In preparing these consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS 1, the Group has applied certain of the
optional exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRS. 65
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
35 Explanation of transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) (continued)
35.1.2 Exemptions from full retrospective application elected by the Group
Communisis plc has elected to apply the following optional exemptions from full retrospective application:
(a) Business combination exemption
Communisis plc has applied the business combinations exemption in IFRS 1. It has not restated business
combinations that took place prior to the 1 January 2004 transition date.
(b) Employee benefits exemption
Communisis plc has elected to recognise all cumulative actuarial gains and losses as at 1 January 2004. 
(c) Cumulative translation differences exemption
Communisis plc has elected to set the previously accumulated translation difference to zero at 1 January 2004. This
exemption has been applied to all subsidiaries in accordance with IFRS 1.
(d) Share-based payment transaction exemption
The Group has elected to apply the share-based payment exemption. It applied IFRS 2 from 1 January 2004 to those
options that were issued after 7 November 2002 but that had not vested by 1 January 2005.
35.1.3 Early adoption of standards
Communisis plc has elected to early adopt the following standards.
(a) IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’
The Group has early adopted the amendment to IAS 19 in its first IFRS financial statements. Actuarial gains and losses
have been taken straight to the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
(b) IFRS 5 ‘Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations’
IFRS 5 is first applicable to accounting years beginning on or after 1 January 2005. The Group has elected to apply
IFRS 5 in comparative years in these financial statements.
(c) IAS 32 ‘Financial instruments: Disclosure and presentation’ and IAS 39 ‘Financial instruments: Recognition and
measurement’ have no material impact on the Group. 
35.2 Reconciliation between IFRS and UK GAAP
The following reconciliations provide a quantification of the effect of the transition to IFRS. The first reconciliation
provides an overview of the impact on equity of the transition at 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2004 (Note 35.2.1).
The following four reconciliations provide details of the impact of the transition on:
– equity at 1 January 2004 (Note 35.2.2)
– equity at 31 December 2004 (Note 35.2.3)
– net income for the year ended 31 December 2004 (Note 35.2.4)
– cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2004 (Note 35.2.5)
35.2.1 Summary of equity
1 Jan 2004 31 Dec 2004
£000 Note £000 Note
Total equity under UK GAAP 188,651 166,782
Recognition of the net liability relating to the defined 
benefit pension scheme (38,240) 35.2.2(g) (42,664) 35.2.3(i)
Write back of SSAP 24 pension asset (550) 35.2.2(d) (350) 35.2.3(e)
Amortisation of customer relationships intangible asset – – (91) 35.2.3(c)
Deferred tax adjustments on above items 11,637 35.2.2(c) 12,931 35.2.3(d)
Deferred tax asset required to be recognised under 
IFRS 2 in relation to share-based payments – – 72 35.2.3(d)
Deferred tax liability recognised on capital gains rolled over 
into replacement assets (1,264) 35.2.2(c) (1,208) 35.2.3(d)
Reversal of proposed ordinary dividend payable 4,634 35.2.2(i) 5,100 35.2.3(k)
Write back of goodwill amortisation – – 9,682 35.2.3(b)
Goodwill amortisation on operations discontinued in year – – (26) 35.2.3(b)
Total equity under IFRS 164,868 150,228 66
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
35 Explanation of transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) (continued)
35.2.2 Reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2004
Effect of
UK transition 
GAAP to IFRS IFRS
Note £000 £000 £000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment (a) 54,169 (212) 53,957 
Goodwill 161,576 – 161,576 
Intangible assets (b) – 212 212 
Deferred income tax assets (c) – 4,647 4,647 
215,745 4,647 220,392 
Current assets
Inventories 19,225 – 19,225 
Trade and other receivables (d) 51,608 (550) 51,058 
Cash and cash equivalents 18,139 – 18,139 
88,972 (550) 88,422 
TOTAL ASSETS 304,717 4,097 308,814 
EQUITY
Equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent
Issued capital 35,977 – 35,977 
Share premium 152,256 – 152,256 
Merger reserve 11,365 – 11,365 
Share option reserve (e) – 94 94
ESOP reserve (374) – (374)
Retained earnings (f) (10,573) (23,877) (34,450)
Total equity 188,651 (23,783) 164,868 
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans 15,000 – 15,000 
Retirement benefit obligations (g) – 38,240 38,240 
Provisions 2,871 – 2,871 
Deferred income tax liabilities (h) 5,726 (5,726) –
23,597 32,514 56,111 
Current liabilities
Short term borrowings, overdrafts and current instalments of loans 15,296 – 15,296 
Trade and other payables (i) 77,173 (4,634) 72,539 
92,469 (4,634) 87,835 
Total liabilities 116,066 27,880 143,946 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 304,717 4,097 308,814
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005 67
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
35 Explanation of transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) (continued)
Explanation of the effect of the transition to IFRS on the reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2004
The following explains the IFRS adjustments to the balance sheet as at 1 January 2004.
(a) Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’) £000
Reallocation of certain capitalised software costs to intangible assets in accordance with IAS 38 
‘Intangible assets’ (212)
Total Impact – decrease in PPE (212)
(b) Intangible assets
Reallocation of certain capitalised software costs from tangible assets in accordance with IAS 38 212
Total Impact – increase in intangible assets 212
(c) Deferred income tax assets
I. Deferred tax asset recognised in relation to the net pension liability recognised under IAS 19 
‘Employee benefits’ 11,472
II. Reversal of deferred tax liability recognised on the SSAP 24 pension asset under UK GAAP 165
III. Additional deferred tax liability required to be recognised under IAS 12 ‘Income taxes’ in relation 
to capital gains rolled over into replacement assets (1,264)
IV. Transfer of the deferred income tax liability under UK GAAP to deferred income tax assets to reflect 
the net presentation permitted by IAS12 under certain conditions (5,726)
Total Impact – increase in deferred income tax assets 4,647
IAS 12 ‘Income taxes’ requires deferred tax to be provided on all temporary differences rather than just timing differences,
as is required under UK GAAP . IAS 12 also requires deferred tax to be recognised in respect of the Group’s liabilities under
its post-employment benefit arrangements to the extent recovery is reasonably assured. As a result of these IFRS
adjustments the Group’s deferred tax balance has moved from a liability to an asset and the reclassification has been
made accordingly. Overall the Group has recalculated deferred tax in accordance with IAS 12. 
(d) Trade and other receivables
Write back of the UK GAAP SSAP 24 pension asset as required by IAS 19 (550)
Total Impact – decrease in trade and other receivables (550)
(e) Share option reserve
Recognition of share options issued after 7 November 2002 and not vested at 1 January 2005 94
Total Impact – increase in share option reserve 94
IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payment’ requires that an expense for equity instruments granted be recognised in the financial
statements based on their fair value at the date of grant. This expense is then recognised over the vesting period of the
scheme. The impact of this adjustment is through equity.
(f) Retained earnings
All the IFRS adjustments detailed in this section were recorded against the opening retained earnings 
at 1 January 2004. (23,877)
Total Impact – decrease in retained earnings (23,877) 68
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
35 Explanation of transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) (continued)
(g) Retirement benefit obligations £000
Recognition of the net pension liability relating to the defined benefit pension scheme 38,240
Total Impact – increase in retirement benefit obligations 38,240
IAS 19 requires a market value based approach to valuing the pension liability and related expense recognition, similar to
the approach adopted by the current UK Financial Reporting Standard 17. The impact of the change to IFRS is to
recognise a pension liability under IAS 19.
h) Deferred income tax liabilities
Transfer of the existing UK GAAP deferred income tax liability to deferred income tax assets to reflect 
the net presentation permitted by IAS12 under certain conditions (5,726)
Total Impact – decrease in deferred income tax liabilities (5,726)
(i) Trade and other payables
Reversal of final dividend proposed for year ended 31 December 2003 as required by IAS 10 (4,634)
Total Impact – decrease in trade and other payables (4,634)
IAS10 ‘Events after the Balance Sheet Date’ requires that dividends declared after the balance sheet date should not be
recognised as a liability at that balance sheet date as the liability does not represent a present obligation as defined by
IAS 37 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’. The final dividend declared in March 2004 in relation to
the financial year ended 31 December 2003 of £4,634,000 was reversed out of the transition balance sheet and charged
against the profit and loss account in the restated 31 December 2004 results.  69
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
35 Explanation of transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) (continued)
35.2.3 Reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2004
Effect of
UK transition 
GAAP to IFRS IFRS
Note £000 £000 £000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment (a) 43,448 (829) 42,619 
Goodwill (b) 165,488 8,129 173,617 
Intangible assets (c) – 2,920 2,920 
Trade and other receivables 3,927 – 3,927
Deferred income tax asset (d) – 6,956 6,956 
212,863 17,176 230,039 
Current assets
Inventories 15,982 – 15,982 
Trade and other receivables (e) 50,216 (1,346) 48,870 
Cash and cash equivalents 12,963 – 12,963 
79,161 (1,346) 77,815 
Non-current assets classified as held for sale (f) – 996 996 
79,161 (350) 78,811
TOTAL ASSETS 292,024 16,826 308,850 
EQUITY
Equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent
Issued capital 35,999 – 35,999 
Share premium 152,261 – 152,261 
Merger reserve 11,427 – 11,427 
Share option reserve (g) – 359 359
ESOP reserve (374) – (374)
Cumulative translation adjustment (l) – (253) (253)
Retained earnings (h) (32,531) (16,660) (49,191)
Total equity 166,782 (16,554) 150,228
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans 29,500 – 29,500 
Retirement benefit obligations (i) – 42,664 42,664 
Provisions 698 – 698 
Deferred income tax liabilities (j) 4,184 (4,184) – 
34,382 38,480 72,862
Current liabilities
Short term borrowings, overdrafts and current instalments of loans 11,077 – 11,077 
Trade and other payables (k) 78,656 (5,100) 73,556 
Provisions 1,127 – 1,127
90,860 (5,100) 85,760 
Total liabilities 125,242 33,380 158,622 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 292,024 16,826 308,850 70
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
35 Explanation of transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) (continued)
Explanation of the effect of the transition to IFRS on the reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2004
The nature of the adjustments from UK GAAP to IFRS in the balance sheet at 31 December 2004 are similar to those at
1 January 2004. There are three additional adjustments at 31 December 2004. These relate to the reclassification of separately
identifiable assets on the acquisition of Dataform in September 2004, the deferred tax asset recognised on the share based
payment liability and re-classification of property held for re-sale to non-current assets. Detailed explanations of all other
adjustments are disclosed in Notes 35.2.2.
£000
(a) Property, plant and equipment (PPE)
Reallocation of certain capitalised software costs to intangible assets in accordance with IAS 38 (829)
Total Impact – decrease in PPE (829)
(b) Goodwill
I. Reversal of amortisation of goodwill no longer permitted under IFRS 3 9,682
II. Goodwill amortisation on operations discontinued (26)
III. Reclassification of separately identifiable intangibles on acquisitions (2,182)
IV. Goodwill arising upon recognition of deferred tax liability on separately identifiable intangibles 655
Total Impact – increase in goodwill 8,129
(c) Intangible assets
I. Reallocation of certain capitalised software costs to intangible assets in accordance with IAS 38 829
II. Reclassification of separately identifiable intangibles on Dataform acquisition 2,182
III. Amortisation incurred on Dataform intangible asset (91)
Total Impact – increase in intangible assets 2,920
From 1 January 2004 all acquisitions are required to be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3. Accordingly, the Group
has identified within Dataform’s business separately identifiable intangibles in relation to the existing customer base of
£2,182,000 which will be amortised over six years from acquisition. Goodwill has arisen upon recognition of the deferred
tax liability on separately identifiable intangibles.
(d) Deferred income tax assets
I. Deferred tax asset recognised in relation to the net pension liability recognised under IAS 19 12,799
II. Reversal of deferred tax liability recognised on the SSAP 24 pension asset under UK GAAP 105
III. Additional deferred tax liability required to be recognised under IAS 12 in relation to capital gains 
rolled over into replacement assets (1,208)
IV. Deferred tax asset required to be recognised under IFRS 2 in relation to share based payments 72
V. Transfer of the existing deferred income tax liability to deferred income tax assets to reflect the net 
presentation permitted by IAS 12 under certain conditions (4,184)
VI. Deferred tax liability on recognition of customer relationships intangible asset (655)
VII. Deferred tax liability release upon amortisation of customer relationships intangible asset 27
Total Impact – increase in deferred income tax assets 6,956
IAS 12 requires deferred tax to be recognised in respect of the Group’s liabilities on share-based payments to the extent
recovery is reasonably assured.
(e) Trade and other receivables
I. Write back of the UK GAAP SSAP 24 pension asset as required by IAS 19 (350)
II. Reallocation of Gateshead property from property held for resale to non-current assets classified 
as held for sale (996)
Total Impact – decrease in trade and other receivables (1,346) 71
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
35 Explanation of transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) (continued)
£000
(f) Non-current assets classified as held for sale
Reallocation of Gateshead property from property held for resale to non-current assets classified 
as held for sale 996
Total Impact – increase in non-current assets classified as held for sale 996
(g) Share option reserve
Recognition of share options issued after 7 November 2002 and not vested at 31 December 2004 359
Total Impact – increase in share option reserve 359
(h) Retained earnings
The cumulative effect of all the above adjustments detailed in this section have been recorded against 
retained earnings at 31 December 2004 (16,660)
Total Impact – decrease in retained earnings (16,660)
(i) Retirement benefit obligations
Recognition of the net pension liability relating to the defined benefit pension scheme 42,664
Total Impact – increase in retirement benefit obligations 42,664
(j) Deferred income tax liabilities
Transfer of the existing UK GAAP deferred income tax liability to deferred income tax assets to reflect 
the net presentation permitted by IAS12 under certain conditions (4,184)
Total Impact – decrease in deferred income tax liabilities (4,184)
(k) Trade and other payables
Reversal of final dividend proposed for year ended 31 December 2004 as required by IAS10 (5,100)
Total Impact – decrease in trade and other payables (5,100)
(l) Cumulative translation adjustment
Exchange differences in the year taken directly to a separate component of equity (253)
Total Impact – decrease in cumulative translation adjustment (253) 72
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
35 Explanation of transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) (continued)
35.2.4 Reconciliation of net income for the year ended 31 December 2004
Effect of
UK transition 
GAAP to IFRS IFRS
Note £000 £000 £000
Continuing operations
Revenue 269,664 – 269,664 
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 95 – 95 
Raw materials and consumables used (144,413) – (144,413) 
Employee benefits expense (a) (74,356) (2,098) (76,454) 
Depreciation and amortisation expense (b) (19,136) 9,591 (9,545) 
Other operating expenses (30,868) – (30,868)
Profit from operations 986 7,493 8,479 
Finance income 351 – 351
Finance costs (c) (1,674) (931) (2,605) 
(Loss)/profit before taxation (337) 6,562 6,225 
Income tax expense (d) (561) (654) (1,215)
(Loss)/profit for the year from continuing operations (898) 5,908 5,010 
Discontinued operations
(Loss)/profit for the year from discontinued operations (e) (12,461) 711 (11,750)
(Loss)/profit for the year (13,359) 6,619 (6,740) 
Earnings per share
– basic for loss for the year (9.30p) 4.61p (4.69p)
– diluted for loss for the year (9.30p) 4.61p (4.69p) 73
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
35 Explanation of transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) (continued)
Explanation of the effect of the transition to IFRS on the reconciliation of net income for the year ended
31 December 2004
The following explains the IFRS adjustments to the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2004. The UK GAAP
results presented in Note 35.2.4 have been restated from those reported last year to reflect the presentation format required
under IFRS. 
£000
(a) Employee benefits expense
I. IFRS 2 share-based payment expense for the year (259)
II. Implementation of IAS 19 – excess of Income Statement pension charge over contributions paid (2,039)
III. Reversal of pension expense recognised under UK GAAP SSAP 24 pension requirements 200
Total Impact – increase in employee benefits expense (2,098)
IFRS 2 requires that an expense for equity instruments granted be recognised in the financial statements based on their
fair value at the date of grant. This expense is then recognised over the vesting period of the scheme.
IAS 19 requires a market value based approach to valuing the pension liability and related expenses recognition, similar
to the approach adopted by the current UK Financial Reporting Standard 17. The impact of the changes to IFRS is to
recognise a pension liability under IAS19. The impact of adopting IAS19 was an increase in operating costs.
(b) Depreciation and amortisation expense
I. Reversal of amortisation of goodwill no longer permitted under IFRS 3 9,682
II. Amortisation incurred on Dataform intangible asset (91)
Total Impact – decrease in depreciation and amortisation expense 9,591
From 1 January 2004 all acquisitions are required to be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3. Accordingly, the Group
has identified within Dataform’s business separately identifiable intangibles in relation to the existing customer base of
£2,182,000 which is being amortised over six years from acquisition. 
(c) Finance costs
I. Additional pension expense incurred due to the implementation of IAS19 (995)
II. Reallocation of interest costs on discontinued operations 64
Total Impact – increase in finance costs (931)
(d) Income tax expense
I. Additional deferred tax credit recognised on IAS 19 pension expense 910
II. Reversal of deferred tax credit recognised on SSAP 24 pension charge (60)
III. Reduction in the deferred tax liability on capital gains rolled over into replacement assets 56
IV. Additional deferred tax credit recognised on IFRS 2 share-based payment expense 71
V. Reallocation of income tax expense on discontinued operations (1,658)
VI. Deferred tax on amortisation on Dataform intangible asset 27
Total Impact – increase in income tax expense (654)
IAS 12 requires deferred tax to be provided on all temporary differences rather than just timing differences, as is
required under UK GAAP . IAS 12 also requires deferred tax to be recognised in respect of the Group’s liabilities under its
post-employment benefit arrangements to the extent recovery is reasonably assured. IAS 12 also requires deferred tax to
be recognised in respect of the Group’s liabilities on share-based payments to the extent recovery is reasonably assured.
Overall the Group has recalculated deferred tax in accordance with IAS 12. 74
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
35 Explanation of transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) (continued)
£000
(e) Loss for the year from discontinued operations
I. IFRS 2 share-based payment expense for the year on the label printing operation (6)
II. Additional pension expense incurred due to the implementation of IAS 19 on the label 
printing operation (150)
III. Finance cost on pension expense incurred due to the implementation of IAS19 on the label printing
operation (73)
IV. Goodwill amortisation on operations discontinued in the year (26)
V. Recycled cumulative exchange differences on disposal of Colour Cards businesses (696)
VI. Interest expense on discontinued operations re-allocated (64)
VII. Deferred tax credit in relation to additional pension expense in year under IAS 19 67
VIII. Deferred tax credit in relation to additional share-based payment expense in year under 
IFRS 2 1
IX. Income tax expense on discontinued operations reallocated 1,658
Total Impact – decrease in loss for the year from discontinued operations 711 75
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
35 Explanation of transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) (continued)
35.2.5 Reconciliation of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2004
Effect of
UK transition 
GAAP to IFRS IFRS
Note £000 £000 £000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations (a) 18,332 – 18,332
Interest paid (1,634) (1,634)
Interest received 351 – 351
Tax paid (5,217) – (5,217)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 11,832 – 11,832
Cashflows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking (16,804) – (16,804)
Disposal of subsidiary undertaking 7,996 – 7,996
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (b) (8,347) 569 (7,778)
Disposals of property, plant and equipment 1,557 – 1,557
Purchases of intangible assets (c) – (569) (569)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (15,598) – (15,598)
Cashflows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital 7 – 7
New loans 22,000 – 22,000
Repayment of borrowings (12,500) – (12,500)
Repayment of loans assumed on acquisition (4,216) – (4,216)
Dividends paid (7,184) – (7,184)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (1,893) – (1,893)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (5,659) – (5,659)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 15,343 – 15,343
Exchange rate effects (298) – (298)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 9,386 – 9,386
Cash and cash equivalents consist of:
Cash and cash equivalents 12,963 – 12,963
Overdrafts (3,577) – (3,577)
9,386 – 9,386 76
Communisis plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
35 Explanation of transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) (continued)
(a) Reconciliation of the cash flows from operating activities for the year ended 31 December 2004
Effect of
UK transition 
GAAP to IFRS IFRS
£000 £000 £000
Continuing operations
(Loss)/profit for the year (898) 5,908 5,010
Adjustments for:
– income tax expense 561 654 1,215
– depreciation and amortisation 10,147 (602) 9,545 
– amortisation of contract premium payment 1,000 – 1,000 
– excess of Income Statement pension charge over contributions paid – 2,189 2,189
– goodwill amortisation 9,682 (9,682) – 
– restructuring costs 7,290 (503) 6,787 
– profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (91) 9 (82)
– share-based payment charge – 259 259
– net finance cost 1,323 931 2,254
Changes in working capital:
Increase in inventories (370) (100) (470)
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (141) 341 200 
Increase in payables 680 453 1,133 
Cash effect of restructuring continuing operations (7,613) – (7,613)
Cash inflow from operating activities on continuing operations 21,570 (143) 21,427 
Discontinued operations
Loss for the year (12,461) 711 (11,750)
Adjustments for:
– income tax expense – (1,726) (1,726)
– depreciation and amortisation – 719 719
– restructuring costs 11,655 503 12,158
– profit on sale of property, plant and equipment – (9) (9)
– exchange difference transferred from reserves – 696 696
– share-based payment charge – 6 6
– net finance cost – 137 137
Changes in working capital:
Decrease in inventories – 100 100 
Increase in trade and other receivables – (541) (541)
Decrease in payables – (453) (453)
Cash effect of closure of the label printing operation (2,432) – (2,432)
Cash outflow from operating activities on discontinued operations (3,238) 143 (3,095)
Cash generated from operations 18,332 – 18,332 77
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
35 Explanation of transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) (continued)
£000
(b) Purchases of property, plant and equipment
Reallocation of software asset purchases to purchases of intangible assets 569
Total Impact – decrease in cash outflow on purchases of property, plant and equipment 569
(c) Purchases of intangible assets
Reallocation of software asset purchases from purchases of property, plant and 
equipment (569)
Total Impact – increase in cash outflow on purchases of intangible assets (569) 78
Communisis plc Report of the Auditors on the Consolidated Financial Statements
Report of the Auditors on the Consolidated Financial Statements
Independent auditors’ report to the shareholders of
Communisis plc
We have audited the Group financial statements of
Communisis plc for the year ended 31 December 2005
which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the
Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised
Income and Expense and the related notes 1 to 35. These
Group financial statements have been prepared under the
accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company
financial statements of Communisis plc for the year ended
31 December 2005 and on the information in the Directors’
Remuneration Report that is described as having been
audited. 
This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a
body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act
1985. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might
state to the Company's members those matters we are
required to state to them in an auditors' report and for no
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
Company and the Company's members as a body, for our
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual
Report and the Group financial statements in accordance
with applicable United Kingdom law and International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the
European Union as set out in the statement of Directors’
Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK
and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group
financial statements give a true and fair view and whether
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of
the IAS Regulation. We also report to you if, in our opinion,
the Directors’ Report is not consistent with the Group
financial statements, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information specified by law regarding director’s
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement
reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions
of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by
the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we
report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether
the board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and
controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and
control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report
and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group
financial statements. The other information comprises only
the Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s Report,
Financial Review, Directors’ Report, the Remuneration
Report and the Corporate Governance Statement. We
consider the implications for our report if we become aware
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies
with the Group financial statements. Our responsibilities do
not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the
Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on
a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and
disclosures in the Group financial statements. It also
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and
judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the
Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances,
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence
to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial
statements are free from material misstatement, whether
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming
our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of
the presentation of information in the Group financial
statements.
Opinion
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
• give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as
adopted by the European Union, of the state of the
Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit
for the year then ended; and
• have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor
Leeds
2 March 2006 79
Company Balance Sheet Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Company Balance Sheet
31 December 2005
Restated
2005 2004
Note £000 £000
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 5 979 4,887
Investments 6 355,872 374,962
356,851 379,849
Current assets
Debtors 7 13,809 5,711
Property held for resale 2,994 –
Cash at bank and in hand 8 3,937 8,746
20,740 14,457 
Creditors (Amounts due within one year)
Borrowings 9 (19,678) (14,739)
Other creditors 10 (9,807) (9,770)
(29,485) (24,509)
Net current liabilities (8,745) (10,052)
Total assets less current liabilities 348,106 369,797
Creditors (Amounts due after one year)
Borrowings 9 (33,500) (29,500)
Loans due to group undertakings (81,695) (90,892)
Provisions for liabilities 11 (228) (776)
Net assets excluding net pension liability 232,683 248,629 
Net pension liability 16 (3,216) (3,653)
Net assets 229,467 244,976
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 12 36,008 35,999 
Share premium account 14 152,287 152,261 
Merger reserve 14 10,908 10,908 
ESOP reserve 14 (374) (374)
Share option reserve 14 207 109
Profit and loss account 15 30,431 46,073 
Equity shareholders’ funds 229,467 244,976
The financial statements on pages 79 to 93 were approved by the Board on 2 March 2006 and signed on its behalf by:
D E A Jones
M A Whiteling
Directors
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this company balance sheet. 80
Communisis plc Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders’ Funds
Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders’ Funds
for the year ended 31 December 2005
Restated
2005 2004
Note £000 £000
Profit attributable to shareholders as previously reported 5,204
FRS 21 Recognition of 2003 dividends received in year 8,808
FRS 21 Reversal of 2004 dividends proposed not received (6,879)
Employee share option schemes – value of services provided (76)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension plan (403)
Write back of SSAP 24 pension asset 200
Deferred tax on pension and share options 77
(Loss) / profit attributable to shareholders (7,351) 6,931
Ordinary dividends (7,907) (7,184)
New share capital issued 12 9 22
Share premium on new share capital issued 14 26 5
Merger reserve arising on issue of new share capital 14 – 62
Currency translation differences (133) 80
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension plan (359) (144)
Deferred tax on actuarial losses 108 43
Employee share option schemes – value of services provided 98 76
(15,509) (109)
Equity shareholders’ funds at start of period as previously reported 250,637 252,914
Prior period adjustments in respect of:
Write back of SSAP 24 pension asset (350) (550)
FRS 17 Actuarial losses (5,219) (4,672)
Deferred tax on items above 1,671 1,567
FRS 21 Reversal of dividends proposed not paid 5,100 4,634
FRS 21 Reversal of dividends proposed not received (6,879) (8,808)
FRS 20 Deferred tax on share options in period 16 –
Equity shareholders’ funds at start of period as restated 244,976 245,085
Equity shareholders’ funds at end of period as restated 229,467 244,976  81
Notes to the Company Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
1.1 Basis of preparation
The Company financial statements are prepared in
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and
accounting standards as defined in the Companies Act
1985 and under the historical cost convention and are made
up to 31 December each year.
The accounting policies of the Company have been
consistently applied over both the current and preceding
period except as disclosed below. The Company has
departed from consistent accounting policies with the
Group as the Group financial statements are prepared under
International Financial Reporting Standards for the first time
in 2005, and the Company directors have taken the decision
to continue preparing Company financial statements in
accordance with UK GAAP. 
1.2 Changes in accounting policy
The Company has adopted FRS 17 ‘Retirement Benefits’ in
these financial statements. The adoption of this standard
represents a change in accounting policy and the
comparative figures have been restated to reflect the
removal of the pension costs, prepayment and deferred tax
provisions made under SSAP 24 (as previously reported)
and to include the cost and liability position under FRS17. 
The Company has changed its accounting policy for
dividends following the implementation of a new accounting
standard FRS 21 ‘Events after the Balance Sheet date’.
Previously the Company recognised the dividends proposed
in respect of the financial year to which they related. Under
the new standard the Company will recognise final dividends
on approval at the AGM and interim dividends when paid. In
addition the Company used to recognise inter-company
dividends receivable in respect of the financial year to which
they related. Under the new standard the Company
recognises dividends receivable when its right to
consideration has been established through appropriate
approval by the Boards of directors.
During the year, the Group adopted FRS 20 ‘Share-based
Payment’. The standard requires that where shares or rights
to shares are granted to third parties, including employees,
a charge should be recognised in the profit and loss account
based on the fair value of the shares at the date of the grant
of shares. The adoption of this standard constitutes a
change in accounting policy. 
Details of the effect of adopting FRS 17, 20 and 21 are given
in Note 15.
1.3 Summary of significant accounting policies
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets in the financial statements of the
Company are stated at cost, less aggregate depreciation
and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation
The charge is calculated at rates appropriate to write off the
cost less residual value of individual assets from the time
they become operational by equal annual instalments over
their estimated useful economic lives which are principally as
follows:
Freehold buildings 25 to 50 years
Plant, equipment and motor vehicles 4 to 10 years
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Fixed asset investments
Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for
impairment.
Impairment
In accordance with FRS 11 ‘Impairment of fixed assets and
goodwill’, fixed assets are subject to an impairment review if
circumstances or events change to indicate that the carrying
value may not be fully recoverable. The review is performed
by comparing the carrying value of the fixed asset to its
recoverable amount, being the higher of the net realisable
value and value in use. The net realisable value is considered
to be the amount that could be obtained on disposal of the
asset. The value in use of the asset is determined by
discounting, at a market-based pre-tax discount rate, the
expected future cash flows resulting from its continued use,
including those arising from its ultimate disposal. 
When the carrying values of fixed assets are written down by
any impairment amount, the loss is recognised in the profit
and loss account in the period in which it occurred. Should
circumstances or events change and give rise to a reversal
of a previous impairment loss, the reversal is recognised in
the profit and loss account in the period in which it occurs
and the carrying value of the asset is increased. The
increase in the carrying value of the asset will only be up to
the amount that it would have been had the original
impairment not occurred. 
For the purpose of conducting impairment reviews, income
generating units are considered to be groups of assets and
liabilities that generate income, and are largely independent
of other income streams. They also include those assets
and liabilities directly involved in producing the income and a
suitable proportion of those used to produce more than one
income stream.
Taxation
Current tax, being UK corporation tax, is provided at
amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax
1 Accounting policies 82
Communisis plc Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively
enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised as a liability or asset in respect of
all timing differences that have originated but not reversed if
the transactions or events that give rise to an obligation to
pay more tax in future, or a right to pay less tax in future,
have occurred by the balance sheet date. Deferred taxation
assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors
consider that it is more likely than not that there will be
suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing
differences can be deducted. Deferred tax is measured on
an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to
apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse,
based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively
enacted at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate
ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated
at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All
differences are taken to the profit and loss account with the
exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings, to
the extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge
against foreign equity investments, which are taken directly
to reserves together with the exchange difference on the
carrying amount of the related investments. Tax charges and
credits attributable to exchange differences on those
borrowings are also dealt with in reserves.
Treasury
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption in FRS
25 and have excluded disclosures relating to financial
instruments from the financial statements on the basis that
the financial instruments of the Company are included in the
consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Pension costs
The Company operates defined contribution and defined
benefit pension plans.
Payments to defined contribution pension plans are charged
as an expense to the profit and loss account as incurred
when the related employee service is rendered. The
Company has no further legal or constructive payment
obligations once the contributions have been made.
The defined benefit pension plan is a Group scheme. The
Company’s share of costs and deficit of the scheme has
been allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis.
For the defined benefit pension plan, the cost of providing
benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Method and
the service cost relating to the benefit earned in the period
is recognised in staff costs in the profit and loss account. An
interest cost representing the unwinding of the discount rate
on the scheme’s liabilities, net of the expected return on
scheme assets, is charged to the profit and loss account.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of
defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the
defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the
fair value of the plan assets net of deferred tax. The defined
benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent
actuaries. The present value of the defined benefit obligation
is determined by discounting the estimated future cash
outflows using interest rates of AA rated corporate bonds
that have terms of maturity approximating to the term of the
relevant pension liability.
All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the
present value of the defined benefit obligation and the fair
value of plan assets are recognised immediately in the
Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses. 
Leases
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in
the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the
lease term.
Employee Share Ownership Plan
The Company maintains an Employee Share Ownership
Plan (‘ESOP’). All assets and liabilities of the ESOP are
accounted for in accordance with UITF 38 ‘ Accounting for
ESOP Trusts’. The investment in Communisis plc shares
held by the ESOP trust is classified at original cost as a
deduction from shareholders’ funds. 
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of
transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently
stated at amortised cost; any difference between the
proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption
value is recognised in the profit and loss account over the
period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the
Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of
the liability for at least twelve months after the balance sheet
date.
Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred.
Property held for resale
Property held for sale is measured at the lower of carrying
amount and fair value less costs to sell. Upon reclassification
as property held for sale depreciation ceases to be charged.
1 Accounting policies (continued) 83
Notes to the Company Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
Property is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount
will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than
through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met
only when the sale is highly probable and the property is
available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should
be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale
within one year from the date of classification.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a
present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a
past event, it is probable that an outflow of
resources embodying economic benefits will be required to
settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made
of the amount of the obligation. If the effect of the time value
of money is material, provisions are determined by
discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of
money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the
liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in the
provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a
finance cost. 
Share-based payment transactions
Certain directors and management are eligible to participate
in share-based payment schemes all of which are equity
settled.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is
measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which
they are granted. The fair value is determined by an external
valuer using an appropriate model. In valuing equity-settled
transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions,
other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of
Communisis plc (‘market conditions’).
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised,
together with a corresponding increase in equity shown as
the share option reserve, over the period in which the
performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on
which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the
award (‘vesting date’). The cumulative expense recognised
for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date reflects
the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the
Company’s best estimate of the number of equity
instruments that will ultimately vest, based on the
achievement or otherwise of non-market based
performance conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not
ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is
conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as
vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is
satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are
satisfied.
The Company has taken advantage of the transitional
provisions of FRS 20 in respect of equity-settled awards and
has applied FRS 20 to equity-settled awards granted after 7
November 2002 that had not vested on or before
31 December 2004 only.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if
it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not
yet recognised in the profit and loss account for the award
is expensed immediately. Any compensation paid up to the
fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date
is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value
being treated as an expense in the profit and loss account.
1 Accounting policies (continued) 84
Communisis plc Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
2 Operating costs and income
Auditors’ remuneration
The auditors’ remuneration charged to the profit and loss account in the year was £90,000 (2004 £80,000)
Employee numbers
2005 2004
The average number of persons employed by the Company during the year was:
United Kingdom 31 35
Rest of world – –
31 35
Directors’ remuneration
Details of individual directors’ remuneration, pension entitlements and interests of the directors of Communisis plc are
provided within the Report by the Board on Directors’ Remuneration on pages 17 to 22. 
3 Dividends paid and proposed
2005 2004
Declared and paid during the year £000 £000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2003 of 3.227p per share 4,634
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2004 of 1.775p per share 2,550
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2004 of 3.549p per share 5,100
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2005 of 1.953p per share 2,807
7,907 7,184
Proposed for approval at AGM (not recognised as a liability as at 31 December)
Final equity dividend on ordinary shares for 2005 of 3.897p (2004 3.549p) per share 5,600 5,100
4 Deferred taxation
2005 2004
£000 £000
The asset at 30% (2004 30%) for deferred taxation is as follows:
Accelerated capital allowances (68) (106)
Other short term timing differences 711 528
Share based payments 6 16
649 438
Deferred tax offset against actuarial deficit 1,379 1,566
Total deferred tax 2,028 2,004 85
Notes to the Company Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
5 Tangible fixed assets
Freehold
Land Plant
and and Other
Buildings Vehicles Equipment Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
1 January 2005 7,600 4,115 534 12,249
Additions – 63 100 163
Transfer to group companies – (517) – (517)
Disposals –(264)–(264)
Reclassified to property held for resale (6,500) – – (6,500)
31 December 2005 1,100 3,397 634 5,131
Accumulated depreciation
1 January 2005 3,771 3,182 409 7,362
Transfer to group companies – (54) – (54)
Disposals –(132)–(132)
Reclassified to property held for resale (3,506) – – (3,506)
Charge for year 20 371 91 482
31 December 2005 285 3,367 500 4,152
Net book value at 31 December 2005 815 30 134 979
Net book value at 1 January 2005 3,829 933 125 4,887
6 Investments
Shares Provisions Total 
£000 £000 £000
Subsidiaries
1 January 2005 377,233 (2,271) 374,962 
Impairment loss – (19,090) (19,090)
31 December 2005 377,233 (21,361) 355,872
The impairment loss has been measured by reference to the value in use of assets comprising the Company’s investment in
subsidiaries. A risk free discount rate of 10% has been applied to projected cash flows. This is the Company’s weighted
average cost of capital adjusted to reflect market assessment of specific risks associated with the segment cash flows. Cash
flows are projected based on financial budgets approved by the Board and have been subject to review and risk adjustment.
Adjustments have been made to reflect risks associated with expense inflation, new business growth and market price
movements. 86
Communisis plc Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
6 Investments (continued)
The Company’s main subsidiary operations are listed in the following table. 
Country of % equity interest
Name incorporation 2005 and 2004 Immediate parent
Communisis UK Limited United Kingdom 100 Communisis plc
Communisis Dataform Limited United Kingdom 100 Communisis plc
Communisis Dataform South West Limited United Kingdom 100 Communisis Dataform Limited
Print Directive Limited United Kingdom 100 Communisis Dataform Limited
Econo-mailer Limited United Kingdom 100 Communisis Dataform Limited
Wakefield Holdings Limited (agency company) United Kingdom 100 Communisis UK Limited
Communisis Europe Limited United Kingdom 100 Communisis plc
Communisis France SARL France 100 Communisis Europe Limited
Communisis Nederland BV Netherlands 100 Communisis Europe Limited
Communisis Spain SL Spain 100 Communisis Europe Limited
7 Debtors 2005 2004
Note £000 £000
Trade debtors 38 1,825
Amounts owed by group undertakings 8,689 20
Other debtors 3,979 3,416
Prepayments and accrued income 454 12
Deferred tax asset 4 649 438
13,809 5,711
2005 2004
8 Cash at bank and in hand £000 £000
Cash and bank balances 3,937 8,746
2005 2004
9 Borrowings £000 £000
Bank loans – sterling (i) 10,000 15,000
Bank loans – sterling (ii) 22,000 22,000
Bank loans – sterling (iii) 10,000 –
Bank overdrafts – sterling 5,194 3,820
Bank overdrafts – foreign currencies 5,984 3,419
53,178 44,239
Repayable:
Between two and five years 25,000 22,000
Between one and two years 8,500 7,500
33,500 29,500
Within one year 19,678 14,739
53,178 44,239
Note:
(i) Repayable in equal annual instalments to 10 May 2007. Interest is charged at LIBOR plus 0.675%. 
(ii) Repayable in annual instalments of £2,500,000 to 9 September 2008 and the balance is due on 9 September 2009. Interest is charged
at LIBOR plus 0.50%. 
(iii) Repayable in annual instalments of £1,000,000 to 21 March 2009 and the balance is due on 21 March 2010. Interest is charged at LIBOR
plus 0.55%.
The overdrafts and loans are secured by cross guarantee arrangements from Group companies with the relevant banks. 87
Notes to the Company Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
10 Other creditors (Amounts due within one year)
2005 2004
£000 £000
Trade creditors 1,652 254
Amounts due to group companies 231 35
Other creditors 2,372 1,553
Corporation tax 4,070 5,308
Taxation and social security 1,132 1,681
Accruals and deferred income 350 939
9,807 9,770
11 Provisions for liabilities Onerous
leases
£000
1 January 2005 (restated) 776 
Utilised in year (163)
Unused amounts reversed (385)
31 December 2005 228
The provision for onerous leases relates primarily to the estimated costs for the maintenance of surplus premises which are
planned to be utilised over a period of one to three years (2004 two to four years). 
12 Called up share capital
2005 2004
Number of Number of
shares £000 shares £000
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 25p each 180,000,000 45,000 180,000,000 45,000
Allotted and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 25p each 144,026,077 36,008 143,990,167 35,999
Shares allotted during the year 2005 2004
Nominal Net Nominal Net
value Consideration value Consideration
Number £000 £000 Number £000 £000
On exercise of options 36,624 9 35 7,068 2 7
In relation to the acquisition of
Dataform Group Limited –– – 78,093 20 82
31 December 36,624 9 35 85,161 22 89 88
Communisis plc Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
13 ESOP reserve
The ESOP reserve is used to record the investment in Communisis plc shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan
(‘ESOP’). The plan is for the benefit of all employees and can be used in conjunction with any of the Company’s share
schemes. The ESOP reserve held 309,628 shares at 31 December 2005 (2004 309,628) and the market value of these shares
was £238,000 (2004 £364,000).
14 Reserves Share Share
Premium Merger ESOP option
account reserve reserve reserve
£000 £000 £000 £000
Company
1 January 2004 as previously reported 152,256 10,846 (374) –
Share options issued after 7 November 2002 and not vested
at 1 January 2005 – – – 33
1 January 2004 as restated 152,256 10,846 (374) 33
Premium arising on exercise of options in year 5 – – –
Premium arising on shares allotted to acquire Dataform Group Limited – 62 – –
Employee share option scheme – value of service provided – – – 76
31 December 2004 152,261 10,908 (374) 109
Premium arising on exercise of options in year 26 – – –
Employee share option scheme – value of service provided – – – 98
31 December 2005 152,287 10,908 (374) 207
15 Profit and loss account 2005 2004
£000 £000
Profit and loss account at 1 January as previously reported 51,843 54,209
Prior period adjustment in respect of write back of SSAP 24 pension asset (350) (550)
FRS 17 Actuarial losses (5,219) (4,672)
Deferred tax on items above 1,671 1,567
FRS 21 Reversal of dividends proposed not paid 5,100 4,634
FRS 21 Reversal of dividends proposed not received (6,879) (8,808)
FRS 20 Share options (109) (33)
FRS 20 Deferred tax on share options in period 16 –
Profit and loss account at 1 January as restated 46,073 46,347
Retained loss for the financial year (15,258) (253)
Currency translation differences (133) 80
Actuarial losses recognised in the pension plan (359) (144)
Deferred tax on actuarial losses 108 43
Profit and loss account at 31 December 30,431 46,073
In accordance with the exemption allowed by S230 Companies Act 1985 the Company has not presented its own profit and
loss account. The (loss)/profit after taxation for the year for the Company was (£7,351,000) (2004 £6,931,000).
The above changes in accounting policies have had the effect of increasing shareholders’ funds as at 31 December 2005 by
£1,286,000 (2004 decreasing £5,661,000) and increasing retained profit for the year by £7,100,000 (2004 £2,193,000). 89
Notes to the Company Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
16 Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans
2005 2004
£000 £000
Pension liability (4,595) (5,219)
Deferred tax (Note 4) 1,379 1,566
Net pension liability (3,216) (3,653)
The Company has complied with the full requirements of FRS 17 in the current and restated preceding period. These financial
statements include a proportion of the Group pension deficit and charge which has been allocated to the Company. 
The Company operates defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans.
Defined contribution schemes
The Company operates UK defined contribution schemes within a number of Group companies. The assets of the schemes
are held separately from those of the Company in funds under the control of trustees. 
The Company is required to contribute a specified percentage of payroll costs to the retirement benefit scheme to fund the
benefits. The only obligation of the Company with respect to the retirement benefit scheme is to make the specified contributions.
The total cost charged to income of £28,000 (2004 £nil) represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Company
at rates specified in the rules of the plans. As at 31 December 2005, contributions of £nil (2004 £nil) due in respect of the
current reporting period had not been paid over to the schemes.
The Company expects to contribute £40,000 to the defined contribution pension scheme in 2006.
Defined benefit scheme
The Company operates a defined benefit scheme for qualifying employees of the Company as follows: 
Final salary
The final salary section provides a pension of one sixtieth or one eightieth (depending on the level of employee contribution)
of final salary at normal retirement age for each year of pensionable service. This is subject to the benefit not exceeding one
thirtieth of the Inland Revenue earnings cap, which applies to members who joined the Plan on or after 1 June 1989, for each
year of pensionable service. Normal retirement age is sixty-five.
Career average revalued earnings 
The career average revalued earnings section provides an accrual each year of a unit of one forty-fifth, one sixtieth or one
eightieth (depending on the level of employee contribution) of pensionable salary for that year. The unit is then revalued in each
subsequent year by the rate of growth in the Retail Prices Index until normal retirement age. The normal retirement age under
this section is sixty-five except for certain executives, where the accrual rate is one forty-fifth, whose normal retirement age is
set at sixty-two.
A full actuarial valuation of the Plan was carried out at 30 September 2002 by a professionally qualified external actuary. The
valuation of liabilities detailed below has been derived by projecting forward the position to 31 December 2005 by a qualified
independent actuary. The major assumptions used by the actuary were (in nominal terms);
As at As at As at
December December December
2005 2004 2003
Rate of increase in salaries 4.00% 4.20% 4.10%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment:
Post 5 April 2005 2.25% ––
Post 5 April 1997 2.50% 2.70% 2.60%
Pre 6 April 1997 – ––
Discount rate 4.80% 5.40% 5.50%
Inflation assumption 2.50% 2.70% 2.60%
Deferred pensions are revalued to retirement age in line with the Plan’s rules and statutory requirements.
The Company expects to contribute £615,000 to the defined benefit pension scheme in 2006 subject to conclusion of the
30 September 2005 scheme valuation.  90
Communisis plc Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
16 Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans (continued)
The assets in the Plan and the expected rate of return were:
Expected Value at Expected Value at Expected Value at
rate of 31 Dec rate of 31 Dec rate of 31 Dec
return at 2005 return at 2004 return at 2003
31/12/05 £000 31/12/04 £000 31/12/03 £000
Equities 7.10% 9,255 7.50% 7,374 7.60% 6,715
Property 7.10% 721 7.50% 575 7.60% 524
Bonds 4.80% 1,834 5.40% 1,155 5.50% 753
Gilts/cash 4.10% 3,768 4.50% 2,757 4.60% 2,415
Total market value of assets 15,578 11,861 10,407
Actuarial value of liability (20,173) (17,080) (15,079)
Total deficit in the schemes (4,595) (5,219) (4,672)
Related deferred tax 1,379 1,566 1,402
Net pension liability (3,216) (3,653) (3,270)
The amounts which have been recognised in the Company Profit and Loss Account and in the Statement of Total Recognised
Gains and Losses for the year are analysed as follows:
2005 2004
£000 £000
Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit
Current service cost (715) (896)
Recognised in arriving at operating profit (715) (896)
Analysis of net return on pension scheme
Expected return on scheme assets 843 714
Interest cost on scheme liabilities (933) (844)
Other finance cost (90) (130)
Analysis of amount recognised in Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 1,409 458
Changes in assumptions (1,768) (602)
Actuarial losses recognised in the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses (359) (144)
Movement in deficit during the year
2005 2004
£000 £000
Deficit in scheme at beginning of period (5,219) (4,672)
Movement in year:
Interest cost (90) (130)
Current service cost (715) (896)
Contributions 1,788 623
Actuarial losses (359) (144)
Closing defined benefit obligation (4,595) (5,219) 91
Notes to the Company Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
16 Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans (continued)
History of experience gains and losses
Financial year ended 31 December
2005 2004 2003 2002
Experience adjustments on plan assets (£000) 1,409 458 523 (2,022)
Percentage of scheme assets 9% 4% 5% (23%)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities (£000) – – (135) -
Percentage of scheme liabilities 0% 0% –1% 0%
Total amount recognised in Statement of Total Recognised
Gains and Losses (359) (144) (967) (2,057)
Percentage of scheme liabilities (2%) (1%) (6%) (17%)
The following tables summarise the funded status and amounts which have been recognised in the balance sheet.
Benefit asset/(liability)
2005 2004
£000 £000
Defined benefit obligation (20,173) (17,080)
Fair value of plan assets 15,578 11,861
Gross pension deficit (4,595) (5,219)
The defined benefit obligation comprises £20 million (2004 £17 million) arising from a partly funded plan.
The scheme is closed to new members such that the age profile of the active members is rising. As a result under the
projected unit method the current service cost will increase as the members of the scheme approach retirement. 92
Communisis plc Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
17 Share based payments 
Under share option schemes, share options to subscribe for ordinary shares of 25p each outstanding at 31 December 2005
were as follows:
Savings Related Share Option Scheme Executive Share Option Schemes
Options Options Options
Options lapsed/ Options Options granted lapsed/ Options
held at exercised held at Option Exercis- held at during the exercised held at Option
1 Jan 2005 in the year 31 Dec 2005 price able 1 Jan 2005 year in the year 31 Dec 2005 price Exercisable
Number Number Number (p) Number Number Number Number (p)
259,532 (259,532) – 135.00 1,444,499 – (168,690) 1,275,809105.500 2006-2013
623,687(434,391) 189,296128.54 2006 308,057 – – 308,057105.5002007-2014
1,233,356(346,225) 887,131 91.00 2006 588,235 – – 588,235110.5002006-2013
295,729 (65,792) 229,937 135.00 2007 – 1,023,797 – 1,023,797 114.500 2008-2015
750,909 (168,099) 582,810 91.00 2008 910,968 – (263,282) 647,686125.000 2006-2012
61,776 – – 61,776139.075 2006
25,740 – – 25,740141.0252006-2007
54,912 – – 54,912148.200 2006
1,083,945 – (188,086) 895,859156.250 2006-2010
687,509 – (156,585) 530,924162.670 2006-2012
326,589 – (221,797) 104,792176.500 2006-2011
51,480 – – 51,480176.6752006-2008
3,163,213 (1,274,039) 1,889,174 5,543,710 1,023,797 (998,440) 5,569,067
The Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 
Certain directors and management are eligible to participate in the above scheme at the discretion of the Remuneration
Committee. The exercise price of the options is equal to the market value of the shares on the date of grant. In respect of the
options granted prior to 1 January 2005, except those granted to the Chief Executive discussed below, the options vest if the
percentage increase in normalised earnings (i.e. before amortisation, restructuring costs and other non-recurring items) per
share over any three consecutive financial years exceeds the percentage increase in the Retail Prices Index over that period
by an average of at least 3% per annum. The contractual life of each option granted is ten years. There are no cash settlement
alternatives.
In respect of options granted since 1 January 2005 if the performance condition is not met within three years from the date
of grant, the options lapse.
For options granted to the Chief Executive prior to 1 January 2005 the options vest if the TSR of the Company, as compared
to the TSR performance of similar companies in the Support Services sector of the FTSE All Share Index (excluding FTSE 100
companies), is at or above the median level over a three year period. If the target is not achieved at the end of the initial three
year period it will be retested for one further year only. Thereafter the options will lapse.
For options granted to the Chief Executive since 1 January 2005, if the performance condition is not fulfilled within the three
year period from the date of grant, the options lapse.
The Communisis Matched Award Plan
Certain directors and management are eligible to participate in this plan at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
However only one grant has been made under this scheme, on 23 September 2003 to the Chief Executive, and the
Remuneration Committee does not intend to grant any more awards under this plan in its present format. 
The Company match the investment made by the participant on a share-for-share basis. There is no exercise price. The
awards vest three years from the date of grant of the award provided the participant is still employed by the company and
that they continue to hold the invested shares.
The Communisis Savings Related Share Option Scheme
All UK employees (including directors) are eligible to participate in the Communisis Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
The exercise price of the options is equal to the market price of the shares less a maximum discount of 20%. The options
vest on either the third or fifth anniversary of the commencement of the savings period. Any options which have not been
exercised within six months of the vesting date lapse.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share.  93
Notes to the Company Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2005
17 Share based payments (continued)
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of, and movements in, share options
during the year.
2005 2005 2004 2004
Number WAEP £ Number WAEP £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
1
2,043,675 1.23391 2,709,183 1.28949
Granted during the year 761,789 1.14500 308,057 1.05500
Forfeited during the year –– (878,111) 1.34026
Exercised during the year –– ––
Expired during the year (14,535) 1.29165 (95,454) 1.25575
Outstanding at the end of the year
1
2,790,929 1.20934 2,043,675 1.23391
Exercisable at the end of the year 635,491 1.55479 635,491 1.55479
1
included within this balance are options over 702,498 shares (2004 1,486,490 shares) that have not been recognised in accordance with FRS 20 as the options
were granted on or before 7 November 2002. These options have not been subsequently modified and therefore do not need to be accounted for in accordance
with FRS 20.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2005 is 6.95 years
(2004 7.01 years).
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was £0.1972 (2004 £0.1997).
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was £0.91-£1.76675 (2004 £0.91-£1.76675).
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option
pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The following table lists
the inputs to the model used for the years ended 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2004.
2005 2004
Dividend yield (%) 5.34 5.51
Expected share price volatility (%) 29.00 30.50
Historical volatility (%) 29.00 30.50
Risk free rate (%) 4.53 4.50
Expected life of option (years) 3 4
Weighted average share price (£) 1.145 1.055
The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns which may
occur. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also
not necessarily be the actual outcome. The historical and expected volatilities reflect the volatility of the share price of both
Communisis plc and comparator companies.
The carrying amount of the share option reserve relating to the equity settled options at 31 December 2005 is
£207,000 (2004 £109,000).
18 Other financial commitments
At 31 December 2005 the Company had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as set out below:
Other
2005 2004
£000 £000
Operating leases which expire:
– in less than one year – –
– in two to five years 40 17
– in over five years – –
40 17 94
Communisis plc Report of the Auditors on the Company Financial Statements
Report of the Auditors on the Company Financial Statements
Independent auditors’ report to the shareholders of
Communisis plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements of
Communisis plc for the year ended 31 December 2005
which comprise the Balance Sheet, the Reconciliation of
Movement on Equity Shareholders’ Funds and the related
notes 1 to 18. These parent company financial statements
have been prepared under the accounting policies set out
therein. We have also audited the information in the
Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having
been audited. 
We have reported separately on the Group financial
statements of Communisis plc for the year ended 31
December 2005.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a
body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act
1985. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might
state to the Company’s members those matters we are
required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have
formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual
Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the parent
company financial statements in accordance with applicable
United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards (United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) as set
out in the statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and
regulatory requirements and International Standards on
Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent
company financial statements give a true and fair view and
whether the parent company financial statements and the
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited
have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985. We also report to you if, in our
opinion, the Directors’ Report is not consistent with the
parent company financial statements, if the Company has
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received
all the information and explanations we require for our audit,
or if information specified by law regarding directors’
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report
and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent
company financial statements. The other information
comprises only the Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s
Report, Financial Review, Directors’ Report, the unaudited
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the
Corporate Governance Statement. We consider the
implications for our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the
parent company financial statements. Our responsibilities do
not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the
Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on
a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and
disclosures in the parent company financial statements and
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be
audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant
estimates and judgements made by the directors in the
preparation of the parent company financial statements, and
of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the
Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to
give reasonable assurance that the parent company
financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity
or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent
company financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the parent company financial statements give a true and
fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the
Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2005; and
• the parent company financial statements and the part of
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have
been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor
Leeds
2 March 2006 95
Shareholder Information
Company Secretary Martin Young
Registered Office Communisis plc
Wakefield Road, Leeds LS10 1DU
Tel: +44 (0) 113 277 0202 
Fax: +44 (0) 113 271 3503
Registered in England Number 2916113
Visit our website at www.communisis.com
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP
P O Box 61, Cloth Hall Court, 14 King Street, Leeds LS1 2JN
Principal Bankers HSBC Bank plc
Lloyds TSB Group plc
Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
Barclays Bank PLC
Fortis Bank SA/NV
Solicitors Allen & Overy LLP
One New Change, London EC4M 9QQ
Eversheds LLP
Cloth Hall Court, Infirmary Street, Leeds LS1 2JB
Registrars Capita Registrars
Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield HD8 0LA
Tel: 0870 162 3131
+44 208 639 2157 (for overseas shareholders)
Fax: +44 (0) 1484 600911 
www.capitaregistrars.co.uk
For all shareholder enquiries and changes of name and address please contact
Capita Registrars direct.
Stockbrokers HSBC Bank plc 
Level 18, 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ
Investec Securities
2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP
Stock Exchange The Company’s ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Listing
Electronic Shareholders can register to receive shareholder information electronically by
communications visiting the Company’s registrars’ website and registering their details online.
Financial calendar Financial year end 2005 31 December 2005
Results for 2005 announced 2 March 2006
Ex-dividend date 5 April 2006
Record date 7 April 2006
Annual General Meeting 21 April 2006
Payment date for 2005 final dividend 28 April 2006
Interim results for 2006 announced expected September 2006
Results for 2006 announced expected March 2007
Final dates and any changes will be announced and notified as appropriate.
Shareholder Information Communisis plc 96
Summary Notice of Annual General Meeting
Summary of business to be transacted at the 2006 AGM
The full text of the Notice of Meeting, together with the explanatory notes, is set out in a separate document, enclosed with
this report and accounts.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 10.30 a.m. on 21 April 2006 at the Wellington Suite,
Royal Armouries Museum, Armouries Drive, Leeds LS10 1LT
Business to be transacted at the AGM
1. To receive and adopt the Company’s annual report and accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2005.
2. To approve the report by the Board on directors’ remuneration.
3. To approve and confirm the payment of a dividend.
4. To re-elect Mr M G Firth as a director of the Company.
5. To re-elect Mr M E Smith as a director of the Company.
6. To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
7. To authorise the directors to allot securities generally.
8. To authorise the directors to allot securities for cash.
9. To authorise the directors to purchase the Company’s own shares.
Proxy forms for use in connection with the business to be transacted at the AGM are enclosed with the Notice of Meeting.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Summary Notice of Annual General Meeting Communisis plc
Wakefield Road
Leeds 
LS10 1DU
Tel: +44 (0) 113 277 0202
Devonshire House
146 Bishopsgate
London
EC2M 4JX
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7426 4690
Communisis Print
Management Services
– UK
Cardiff 
Suite D2 Building 3
Eastern Business Park 
St Mellons
Cardiff
CF3 5EA 
Tel: +44 (0) 29 2036 5900
East Midlands 
21 Gresley Drive 
Stamford 
Lincs
PE9 2ZA
Tel: +44 (0) 1780 751313
Leeds 
Manston Lane 
Cross Gates
Leeds 
LS15 8AH
Tel: +44 (0) 113 225 2555
Leicester
Centurion Way
Meridian Business Park
Leicester
LE19 1PZ
Tel: +44 (0) 116 240 6700
Newcastle 
Balliol Business Park West
Benton Lane
Newcastle upon Tyne 
NE12 8EW
Tel: +44 (0) 191 201 5000
Nottingham 
Unit 8 The Glade Business Centre
Form Road
Gala Way
Bestwood
Nottingham
NG5 9RW
Tel: +44 (0) 115 973 9200
Rickmansworth
34/36 High Street
Rickmansworth
Hertfordshire
WD3 1ER
Tel: +44 (0) 1923 891000
West Midlands 
Econo-Mailer Ltd 
8 Newton Court 
West Strand
Pendeford Business Park 
Wobaston Road
Wolverhampton
W9 5HB
Tel: +44 (0) 1902 396 600
Print Directive Ltd
26-28 Bull Street
Gomalwood
Dudley
West Midlands
DV3 2NQ
Tel: +44 (0) 1384 241 442
Communisis Print
Management Services
– Europe
Benelux
Takkebijsters 7, 4817 BL Breda
Postbus 5755, 4801 ED Breda
The Netherlands
Tel: +31 (0) 76 578 0670
France 
12 Chaussée Jules César
BP 50534 Osny
95528 Cergy Pontoise Cedex
France
Tel: +33 (0) 1 3017 1313
Spain
Alberto Alcocer 5 2° C
28006 Madrid
Tel: +34 (0) 913 431 710
Communisis Print &
Direct Mail Services
Altrincham 
George Richards Way
Altrincham
Cheshire 
WA14 5GW
Tel: +44 (0) 161 254 6000
Bath 
Westfield Trading Estate
Midsomer Norton
Bath 
BA3 4BS
Tel: +44 (0) 1761 409200
Leeds 
Manston Lane
Cross Gates
Leeds 
LS15 8AH
Tel: +44 (0) 113 225 5000
Communisis
Transactional Print
Services
Birmingham
Lower Ground Floor 
Camden House West
The Parade
Birmingham
West Midlands
B1 3PY
Tel: +44 (0) 121 214 4394 
Crewe
Frances Street
Crewe, Cheshire
CW2 6HG
Tel: +44 (0) 1270 502600
Liverpool
Bridle Road
Netherton 
Bootle
Merseyside
L30 4XE
Tel: +44 (0) 151 473 3133
Manchester – Trafford Wharf
Trafford Wharf Road
Manchester 
M17 1HE
Tel: +44 (0) 161 869 1000
Manchester – Whitefield
Park 17
Moss Lane
Whitefield 
Manchester 
M45 8SH
Tel: +44 (0) 161 910 1730
Northern Ireland
P .O. Box 22 Altona Road
Lisburn, County Antrim
BT27 5QU 
Tel: +44 (0) 2892 606800
Contact Details
Contact Details Annual Report and Accounts 2005
97 P032
www.communisis.com
