 P104
Communisis • 2009 Annual Report & Financial Statements
Cert no. SGS-COC-1202
2009 Annual Report & Financial Statements
Communsis plc
Wakefield Road Leeds LS10 1DU
www.communisis.com
WE ARE EXPERTS 
IN CUSTOMER
COMMUNICATIONS 1 Highlights
Business Review
2 Chairman’s Statement
3 Chief Executive’s Review
6 Financial Performance Report
9 Risks and Uncertainties
11 Corporate Social Responsiblity
Report
Governance
15 Statement of Directors’
Responsibilities
16 Board of Directors
17 Leadership T eam
18 Directors’ Report
23 Directors’ Responsibility Statements
Pursuant to the Disclosure and
Transparency Rules
24 Corporate Governance Report
28 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements
36 Consolidated Income Statement
37 Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
38 Consolidated Balance Sheet
39 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
40 Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
41 Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements
78 Report of the Auditors on the
Consolidated Financial Statements
79 Company Balance Sheet
80 Reconciliation of Movements in
Equity Shareholders’ Funds
81 Notes to the Company Financial
Statements
96 Report of the Auditors on the
Company Financial Statements
Other information
97 Shareholder Information
99 Summary Notice of Annual General
Meeting
100 Contact Details
Contents 1
2009 in Review:
A year characterised byvery challenging conditions:
Communisis has not escaped the impact of the recession
Consolidation and retrenchment in financial services has had a particular impact
Operational improvements effected in Direct Mail and Transactional businesses
Value-added services have continued to grow, despite the recession:
Strong market demand for our Technology & Services offering
40 of the top 100 customers now taking more than one service from Communisis
Integration of Ai complete and making a positive contribution to the business
Continued investment in key areas of the business:
£6.1m capital investment in new technology
Significant investment in colour digital output
Financial Highlights:
Operating profit before exceptional items of £7.2m (2008 £15.0m)
Positive second half operating cashflow of £7.5m (H1 2009 outflow of £6.3m)
Year end net debt of £16.8m (H1 2009 £24.8m, Year end 2008 £13.1m)
Improvement made to the profile of Group pension liabilities
Earnings per share 2.3p (2008 6.2p)
Final dividend of 0.43p making full year 2009 dividend of 1.29p (2008 2.495p) Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
2
The results for 2009 were disappointing as Communisis faced
the impact of the severe downturn in the UK economy. As a
result, on revenues of £190.2m, we reported operating profits
of £7.2m compared to £15m in the previous year. The Board
is proposing a final dividend of 0.43p per share, making the
dividend for the year 1.29p per share.
Operations
In spite of the macro-economic difficulties, particularly in the
financial services industry, all major parts of the business
remained profitable. The Leeds Direct Mail activities
particularly suffered from the decline in demand from their
major banking customers. However, the value-added
segments of our business performed well and a first
contribution from Ai was very satisfactory.
At the same time cash was tightly controlled so that net debt
by the year end had been contained at £16.8m. This has
enabled the Company’s investment plans to continue, leading
to the decision to purchase the most up-to-date digital
technology from Hewlett Packard. Communisis is the only
UK company to offer the HP platform to deliver highly
personalised mass communications. The strategy of moving
into non-financial services business was successful with
significant contracts obtained from T-Mobile, William Hill,
Tesco, Department for Children, Schools and Families, Ogilvy
and Wolseley. This diversification strategy continues. On the
financial side, the pension deficit is being addressed with
an agreed medium-term plan designed to manage the deficit
issue.
Management
There were a number of management changes during the
year; Steve Vaughan, Chief Executive since November 2006,
indicated that he did not wish to continue with the Company
beyond the end of the year. Following a thorough internal
process, the Board appointed Andy Blundell as Chief
Executive in November. Andy has been with Communisis for
two years having previously been Sales Director.
We also took the opportunity to change the structure of
the Board with the appointment of Dave Rushton as
Operations Director and John Wells as Commercial Director.
This means that we now have five senior executives on the
Board, bringing the activities of the Company closer to the
boardroom. Below Board level, we have also strengthened the
management team with the appointment of two General
Managers for the Speke and Leeds operations, together with
a Director of Sales for the Direct Mail business.
Outlook
Whilst 2009 was a difficult year, we are now seeing some of
our customers returning to higher levels of marketing activity.
We have built a unique range of services which enable highly
personalised communications. I believe we have a new
management team which is able to take those services to
market and deal with the challenges of 2010 and beyond.
We will continue to invest in the most modern technology,
particularly in areas such as higher margin data analysis and
online services. This will enable us to exceed the future
demands of our customers and accelerate our penetration in
markets other than financial services.
Our performance in 2010 will be linked to the rate at which
the economy emerges from recession. At this stage, it is too
early to judge how quickly demand will return. However,
I believe that with the steps we have taken, and continue to
take, we are well placed to benefit from the opportunities an
upturn will bring.
Peter Hickson
Chairman
25 February 2010
We have built a unique range of services
which enable highly personalised
communications.
BUSINESS REVIEW
Chairman’s Statement Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
3
Summary
2009 was a year characterised by very challenging market
conditions, with the double impact of a recession and severe
disruption in the important financial services market.
Despite the impact of this on our financial performance in the
year, we continued to generate both profits and cash and
kept our debt position under control. This underlines the
importance of the strategy we have implemented over the past
three years and means that we have been able to continue to
invest in differentiated, value-added services.
Communisis is a data-driven group which delivers
effective and profitable customer communications through
a combination of (1) data and analytics and (2) specialist
multi-channel output.
We are committed to continued investment in technology to
maintain a leading position in our chosen strategic market.
Our investment was £6.1m in 2009 and is cumulatively in
excess of £30m over the past three years. Our latest
announcement is a £3m investment in an HP T300 colour
output platform. This technology changes the landscape in
the Direct Mail market and offers customers the opportunity to
access personalised full-colour messaging at output speeds
previously unheard of. HP have appointed Communisis as
their Foundation Partner in this field and, in addition, have
selected us as their preferred service delivery partner for
the HP Exstream document composition software which will
feed directly to the HP platform. Live customer work starts
in April.
Having been appointed Chief Executive from 31 October
2009, I have started to make changes to the senior team and
two executives, John Wells and Dave Rushton, have joined
the Board adding a wealth of additional market experience to
the team. We are also strengthening the next tier with new
General Managers for our Leeds and Speke facilities along
with a Director of Sales for Direct Mail. These appointments
are key to our plans to improve operational efficiency and new
business acquisition respectively.
In the face of a difficult trading environment in 2009,
management focus has been on delivering the key
fundamentals of profitable contributions from each division;
strong controls on cash and the year-end net debt position;
and renewal of the credit line from KBC Bank taking our total
committed facilities to £50m.
Technology & Services
We have again seen sales and profit growth in this business
despite the recessionary pressures witnessed through
the year. Technology & Services is central to the Communisis
strategy.
We have completed the integration of Ai. Revenue has grown
more steeply than profits because Ai treats the cost of the
acquisition of data as a pass-through. We expect Technology
& Services overall to be able to maintain a return in excess of
25% going forward.
Our technology development strategy is moving forward.
We continue to develop MRM (Marketing Resource
Management) and digital asset management solutions with
our customers, thereby reducing processing costs and
providing robust electronic audit trails of all their activity.
One of our largest deployments in 2009 was for the
Department for Children, Schools and Families (‘DCSF’),
where our digital asset management technology hosts the
imagery for all their communications.
In 2010 we plan to integrate the database capabilities of Ai with
our MRM platform, enabling customers to draw on vast data
Segmental Review Year ended Year ended
31 Dec 31 Dec
2009 2008
£m £m
Revenue
Technology & Services 20.3 11.9
Print Sourcing 58.1 96.7
Direct Mail (*) 53.6 91.8
Transactional 58.2 57.3
190.2 257.7
Profit
Technology & Services 6.3 5.1
Print Sourcing 0.6 1.3
Direct Mail (*) 0.5 5.5
Transactional 9.7 13.3
Central costs (9.9) (10.2)
7.2 15.0
(*) Year ended 31 December 2008 includes Bath Business
Forms disposed of in June 2008
Chief Executive’s Review
We are committed to continued investment
to maintain a leading position in our
chosen strategic market. Communisis plc 2009
sets to more effectively target and individualise documents. We
continue to react to the needs of the changing market by
extending our customer database management capabilities to
deliver a true single customer view for our clients.
The significant enhancements made to our point of sale
module enable customers to track all items, target campaigns
down to individual spaces in stores and automatically
calculate quantities, print costs and distribution instructions.
There is real evidence of savings of 5-8% simply by eliminating
wasted print, as well as significant process savings.
In addition, our pipeline is getting stronger, with Tesco buying
our point of sale solution, Ogilvy taking our print procurement
software and a major UK energy company using our document
composition technology to add marketing messages to bills.
We have established a Group Technology Steering Board for
Communisis to ensure that we continue to strengthen our
technical leadership and remain ahead of the market.
Print Sourcing
The role of Print Sourcing is to act as an incubator for new
client relationships, which we then develop and take up the
value-chain.
Demand from some existing customers was very weak in 2009
as the recession took hold. For example, one of our major
banking customers reduced volume by 40% during the year.
However, run rates improved a little in the second half as some
confidence returned.
We have commented previously on challenging the orthodox
print management model. That means the early introduction of
an integrated technology platform to enable direct interaction
with clients, simplification of process and better management
of the supply chain.
We have announced a series of new customer wins during
2009, including T-Mobile, DCSF and William Hill. These
contracts are all well-embedded and the relationships are
generating opportunities for our other service lines.
The pipeline of opportunities is reasonable and we are finding
interest in our managed service offering from some
unexpected quarters, for example social housing, where we
have contracted with several providers.
Direct Mail
We previously commented that the downturn in marketing
spend across the industry was negatively impacting our Direct
Mail business. Our exposure to the financial services sector,
where many organisations stopped acquisition mailings
entirely, had an additional impact. This volatility and adverse
product mix, coupled with operational gearing, led to the risk
of cost under-recovery in times of low demand and excess
costs when demand within tight delivery windows peaked
toward the summer.
We have responded in a number of ways:
First, we are basing our plans on modest market recovery
and assuming that increasing our market share in the
‘Direct’ market will offset slower demand from our ‘Key
Accounts’. We also think that the credit-crunch has, to
some extent, changed customer behaviours for good –
toward more targeted and personalised communications –
which suits Communisis.
Secondly, we have made substantial changes to the
management team – bringing in a new Director of Sales
and a new General Manager to run operations.
Thirdly, we have already achieved significant reductions in
the cost base and automated key processes.
Fourthly, major new investment will continue to be
made at the data front-end and in our digital output
capability; we have already described how the HP T300
colour output platform is going to change the market and
we will lead the trend.
To summarise, we are going to substantially change the shape
ofourDirectMailbusinesstobettermirrorthewaythemarket
is changing and to reduce our operational gearing. Having a
major presence in Direct Mail remains central to our
overall strategy of delivering more effective and profitable
communications on behalf of our customers. This is a
business which made a substantial contribution to Group
profits in 2008 and we expect its performance to improve
as these changes take effect.
Transactional
Our Transactional business covers two areas of specialist and
secure output – cheques and bills & statements.
Our cheques business performed well in 2009. This was
despite a continued delay in re-branding projects and the
previously documented decline in cheque-mailers. On the
latter we expect Government legislation to have an impact
from Q2 2010 but we believe that alternative opportunities
may emerge for related products and services. There was
considerable media interest in personal cheques recently
following the announcement of a planned phase-out by 2018.
This date resonates with our own long-term planning. We will
continue to reduce the cost base in our cheque business in
tune with annual reductions in demand.
We did encounter some issues with the performance of our
statement printing facility in Speke. At the half year we
reported volumes down on two of our main contracts and
challenges with cost controls and the maintenance of service
levels. Considerable efforts have gone into resolving these
issues and the trend over the past three months has shown a
marked improvement, driven by a new senior management
team which was in place from the fourth quarter of 2009.
The integration issues with the Mail Solutions work have been
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
4
Chief Executive’s Review continued Annual Report & Financial Statements
resolved and we are confident about profitability on the parts
of this work which we will retain. We have just added a fourth
main customer in Wolseley, to whom we already supply
operational print.
We will continue to be in the vanguard for developing the
statement vehicle and are now providing transpromotional
(marketing messaging) output both in hard copy and on-line
formats.
Strategy update
Communisis is an expert in customer communications.
We help companies to engage with their customers effectively
and profitably.
Our clients’ challenge is to get their message heard. To do that
they need insight and multi-channel delivery capability in order
to send relevant communications through the appropriate
channels.
The market is growing in these areas. In data and analysis
services, where we made our recent acquisition of Ai,
data intelligence customer budgets continue to shift into
analytics, measurement and database management. As for
multi-channel output, industry research continues to predict
significant growth in email and online channels.
Communisis has built competitive differentiation through a
unique combination of data and analysis services and
specialist multi-channel output. There are very few other
companies able to offer this combination. Customers benefit
from everything being in one place, from ‘Insight to Action’,
enabling them to achieve reduced cycle times, true
personalisation and superior returns on their investment.
We hold some important customer relationships and 40 of our
top 100 customers now take two or more service lines from
Communisis. Our priorities to take the Company’s growth
strategy forward are threefold:
First, we want to expand the value our services provide to
customers – which means greater integration and the
development of new service propositions. Our expansion
into postal consultancy services is a good example.
Secondly, we aim to expand the technology platforms
through which we deliver value – which means continuing
to take the business upstream and further capital
investment. Our investment in the HP output platform is the
latest evidence of this strategy in action.
Thirdly, we plan to expand the number of customers to
whom we deliver value. This means new customer
acquisition, strategic partnerships such as that with HP and
alternative channels to market, such as with logistics
provider Prolog to deliver a managed service for DCSF .
Looking ahead
Like many companies we are cautious about the extent to
which the economy will emerge from recession in 2010 but
believe that new customer demand will favour our integrated
communications capability. We have invested further in our
capabilities and we are aggressively targeting to expand sales
of Technology & Services to new customers and recover sales
of complex Direct Mail. We have targeted some important
contract renewals in 2010 and we expect to deliver further
significant efficiency gains in our operational businesses.
It is our expectation that the reduced availability of credit and
general trading pressures will force market consolidation in
the Print Sourcing and Direct Mail sectors, which will benefit
Communisis. We are already seeing some customers seek a
more resilient supplier base.
We have well-developed plans designed to address our
challenges and deliver the next stage of our strategy. These
break down into four parts:
Diversification outside the financial services sector – where
we are seeing some successes already announced.
Transition from established products, most notably on
cheques – the solution being (a) to participate in the
replacement technology – whenever that emerges and
(b) related security printing opportunities for our existing
skill base.
Re-purposing our production facilities – most notably
Direct Mail to further reduce our traditional asset base
whilst investing in data services and digital capacity to
continue to take the business upstream and reduce
operational gearing.
Re-structure of our pension fund – we have a project
well-developed and early retirement success has already
been achieved.
There is much to do in 2010 to push these initiatives forward
and with an invigorated management team we are optimistic
in taking the Company forward.
In summary, Communisis is now further down the road to
becoming a fully-fledged marketing services provider.
Andy Blundell
Chief Executive
25 February 2010
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
5 Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
6
Against a backdrop of severe recession in our core markets,
Communisis has maintained profits in all four business
segments. Whilst we have seen disappointing declines in
profits from some of our more mature service offerings,
encouragingly, our much newer portfolio of higher margin
services has continued to grow. Furthermore, our balance
sheet management processes, developed and strengthened
over the preceding two years, proved their worth in 2009 and
have enabled us to maintain relatively low levels of debt.
Profitability
After a challenging but still profitable first half, Communisis
delivered stronger second half results to end the year with
profit from operations before exceptional items of £7.2m (2008
£15.0m). The second half improvement was driven
predominantly by the completion of projects in the Technology
& Services segment and the benefits flowing from
restructuring activity undertaken in the first half.
Our Technology & Services business has enjoyed a third
successful year. Buoyed by the acquisition of Ai, in 2009 it has
grown profits by 23%. About half of this growth is attributable
to Ai, the remainder to organic growth in our core business.
A feature of the Ai business is the acquisition and onward sale
of data which passes through the business at relatively low
margins. Ai adds value for customers by refining this data and
it is these higher margin services that fit well with the
Communisis proposition. Our technology teams have done an
excellent job cross-selling the full range of our communication
solutions to many of our most valued customer accounts.
Their challenge for 2010 and beyond, whilst continuing to
enable the transformation in customer communication in our
key accounts, is to begin work with some of the accounts we
have added in 2009 and plan to add in 2010.
Challenges remain in our two print-based segments. Despite
volume erosion and the decline of our promotional cheque
mailer business, our cheques business has performed
relatively well. In response to the downturn, we cut back more
deeply in this business than in previous years and this helped
to maintain profit levels in the second half. We anticipate that
much of the remainder of our promotional cheque business
will decline rapidly from the second quarter of 2010 and we
expect to see the rate of cheque book volume erosion
increase. This should be partially offset by work from new
entrants in the financial services sector. We also expect to
respond to the volume declines by further downsizing this
business as we have successfully done for some years now.
We have budgeted for some recovery in one-off rebranding
work following the consolidation we have seen in financial
services.
The statement and billing businesses were impacted by the
difficult integration of contracts acquired from Mail Solutions.
This drove costs up at a time when volumes on our two core
contracts were eroding more significantly. Under new
management this business is stronger and we are starting to
see an improvement in cost efficiency. There is more we can
do in this respect and we plan to undertake this work in the
first half of 2010. It is important to note that our capabilities
and relationships in transactional printing have been the
engine room for the growth in Technology & Services profits
for the last two years and we expect this to continue.
The Transactional segment remains a vital part of the
Communisis portfolio of businesses.
Our Direct Mail business has had a very difficult year. It has
had to respond to significant and sudden declines in volume
following the hiatus in the financial services sector. For much
of the year the work we were able to carry out in this business
was lower margin than our facility is used to dealing with.
In addition, with suppliers chasing a smaller market place, we
have seen significant price pressure. In spite of this, three
years of cost reduction and efficiency improvement in this
business have enabled us to remain in profit, helped by very
much improved management of raw materials and work in
progress which enabled us to release a stock provision of
£0.3m in the second half of 2009. We continue to anticipate
that the recession in financial services and the arrival of more
agile businesses to this sector will increase the focus on data
and the digitalisation of customer communication.
Transformation activity we have already undertaken in Direct
Mail leaves us well placed to capitalise on this shift in
customer demand, when it comes, and we believe now is the
time to accelerate the transformation of our Direct Mail facility.
To this end, the acquisition of our first colour inkjet web press
enables us to switch off some of our older conventional litho
based printing equipment and continues the process of
modernising this part of our business. Our aim, over the next
three to five years, is to significantly reduce our operational
gearing in this business thereby reducing our financial
exposure to another downturn in the market. The speed of our
transformation will predominantly be driven by the rate at
which the market adopts these new more flexible
communication opportunities. The strength of our customer
relationships, borne out of our investment in key account
management, leaves us well positioned to judge the timing of
the transition. In the meantime, our recent investments in
Direct Mail sales expertise has lead us to target a significant
improvement in Direct Mail sales in 2010.
Central costs have reduced slightly in 2009. Because they
represent a significant overhead to the Group we have
provided a little more detail in the table below about the key
components of this cost.
2009 2008
£m £m
Corporate office 3.0 3.6
IT infrastructure 2.9 2.7
Group sales and marketing 2.6 2.4
Group procurement 1.4 1.5
9.9 10.2
Financial Performance Report Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
7
Corporate office costs have reduced by 17% from 2008 levels.
The transformation that we have been effecting in Communisis
has lead us to invest in both our IT infrastructure and our Group
sales and marketing capability. Our IT environment is critical
to us as customers increasingly adopt digital technologies.
We continue to be a major buyer of paper, equipment and other
communication peripherals and our Group procurement team
ensures that we fully leverage the combined buying power of
the Group. They have been able to extend their influence
following the acquisition of Ai.
The summarised Group Income Statement is shown in the
table below.
Much of the revenue decline in 2009 relative to 2008 was
experienced and explained in the first half of 2009 and
followed from the disposal of Bath Business Forms and the
loss of the Sainsbury’s contract. The decline continued in the
second half but at a much reduced rate (Revenue H2 2009
£95.2m, H2 2008 £109.6m). The bulk of the second half
decline was in Print Sourcing, where the impact on profit is
negligible, and also in Direct Mail. These declines were
partially offset by strong revenue growth in Technology &
Services driven by the acquisition of Ai.
The Group has disclosed two items of an exceptional nature.
First, we successfully negotiated the early payment of the bulk
of the deferred consideration due in respect of the disposal of
Bath Business Forms. We have now collected a total of £3.5m
of the £4.6m outstanding at the beginning of 2009. This was
previously due in quarterly instalments starting from 2010. In
return for early payment, we reduced the total amount payable
by £650,000 by way of a renegotiation of terms. Securing this
early payment effectively reduces the extent of our financial
exposure to this business and, more importantly, makes a
significant contribution to the funding required for the next
stage of our project to de-risk and reduce the pension liability.
Secondly, we have provided a further sum of £2m in respect
of legacy property leases. The existence of this issue was
disclosed extensively in the 2008 Annual Report. In 2009 we
successfully disposed of one of the more material liabilities,
whilst others remain. Whilst management continues to seek
ways to mitigate this liability, and there are further options to
explore, in establishing this further provision we have fully
anticipated the maximum possible liability that can be
recognised under International Accounting Standards.
The increase in the 2009 interest charge is mostly driven by
pension costs and to a lesser extent by losses associated with
cash flow hedges. We include the costs associated with
ongoing management of the now-closed defined benefit
scheme under interest costs. In 2009 these costs included
fees associated with our project to de-risk pension liabilities.
The underlying interest cost attaching to drawn bank facilities
is lower as the Group benefited from a full year of lower
interest rates and normalisation of the gap between the base
rate and LIBOR.
Our efforts to manage our tax cash flows have continued
apace in 2009. We successfully claimed relief for costs
associated with research and development activity undertaken
in the last three years. Much of our investment in new
technology driven communication solutions was included in
this claim and, along with further resolution in our favour of
outstanding tax issues, has resulted in significant tax credits
in 2009. Clearly lower profit levels have also impacted on the
2009 tax charge when compared with 2008.
As discussed in the Chairman’s Statement, the Board has
taken the decision to reduce the full year dividend declared in
respect of 2009. In 2007 the Board established the intention to
maintain a dividend cover of between two and two and a half
times. We propose to pay a final dividend of 0.43p per share
making the total dividend for 2009 1.29p (2008 2.495p).
With adjusted 2009 earnings per share of 2.6p the 2009
dividend is two times covered. Importantly, this decision will
free up cash that can be used to accelerate the reduction in
pension risk which we consider will enhance shareholder
value. The 2009 final dividend is payable on 4 May 2010 to
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6 April
2010. This will be put to shareholders at the Annual General
Meeting on 27 April 2010.
Cash flow and net debt
After experiencing significant cash outflows in the first
half of 2009 associated both with market conditions
and the traditional seasonality in Group cash flows, the
second half saw the delivery of anticipated stronger cash flow.
The first half outflow in cash generated from operating
activities of £6.3m was completely reversed such that we
ended the year with a net inflow of £1.2m. The first half
working capital outflow (£8.8m) did not repeat in the
second half of the year; indeed we achieved a small inflow
of £0.9m.
2009 2008
£m £m
Revenue 190.2 257.7
Profit from operations before
exceptional items 7.2 15.0
Exceptional items
Disposal of Bath Business Forms (0.6) 1.4
Provision for legacy property leases (2.0) (2.0)
Profit from Operations 4.6 14.4
Net finance cost (2.0) (1.7)
Tax 0.6 (4.1)
Profit for the year 3.2 8.6
Earnings per share (p) 2.3 6.2 Communisis plc 2009
The Group’s full year cash flows are summarised in the table
below:
Despite the downturn, we have continued to invest in our
business. In addition to the capital cash spend, we have
acquired assets for a further £2m by way of finance leases.
This investment should leave us well placed to take maximum
advantage of the upturn when it comes. Even with this
investment, overall, our movement in net debt is relatively
neutral, before returns to shareholders.
Having renewed two of our three main bank facilities in 2008,
we completed renewal of the third and final facility with KBC
in the fourth quarter of 2009. This leaves us with a total of
£50m of committed bank facilities and three strong
relationships with banks that are keen to support the Group
in the next phase of its development.
There are three principal financial covenants in place with all
three lenders. The detail of these was disclosed in the 2009
interim report and accounts. Headroom existed on all three
covenants at the half year and headroom is increased on all
three at the full year.
Pensions
Our plan to reduce the sizeable liability imposed on our
balance sheet by the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme
was announced in the 2008 Annual Report. The first phase,
being an offer of early retirement, was announced and
successfully completed in the first half of 2009. Because of
uncertain market conditions and the need to ensure that we
did not over-commit our cash resources, we announced in
September that we would delay the next phase of the project.
A combination of strong cash management, the early receipt
of deferred consideration in respect of the Bath Business
Forms disposal and the reduction in the dividend mean that
we are now well placed to continue with the next phase of this
project. We intend to issue enhanced transfer offers to some
1,500 members of the scheme not currently drawing a
pension, in the process making up to £4m available to fund
the enhancements. At this stage, it is difficult to predict the
level at which these offers will be taken up. However, based on
an analysis of the outcome of similar exercises, we expect to
deliver a significant reduction in both the liability and the
deficit.
The triennial pension scheme valuation, as at 30 September
2008, has recently been completed and submitted by the
scheme trustees to the Pensions Regulator for review and
approval. It records a deficit of £40m. The Company is
required to agree a recovery plan with the scheme trustees
that will eliminate the deficit over an affordable period.
We have proposed to repay it over 14 years. This entails
paying nothing in 2010, £2m in 2011 and then £3m per annum
for the remaining years. With the agreement of the scheme
trustees, the plan is designed to free up cash flow in 2010 to
enable us to reduce liabilities significantly in 2010 via the
enhanced transfer exercise.
The pension scheme deficit recorded under the less onerous
rules prescribed by International Accounting Standards has
increased to £17.5m at 31 December 2009 (2008 £11.1m).
A deterioration in the outlook for inflation and the fall in
corporate bond yields has driven a significant increase in the
liability which has been substantially offset by a recovery in
the value of scheme investments.
Peter King
Finance Director
25 February 2010
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
8
2009 2008
£m £m
Profit from operations before
exceptional items 7.2 15.0
Depreciation and other non-cash items 8.2 7.9
Working capital (7.9) 1.7
Additional pension scheme contributions (2.5) (1.2)
Interest and tax (3.8) (3.8)
Net cash inflow from operating
activities 1.2 19.6
Net capital expenditure (4.1) (6.9)
Business disposals 3.5 8.2
Business acquisitions (0.6) (4.5)
Dividends (3.5) (3.5)
Other (0.2) 0.3
Movement in net debt (3.7) 13.2
Opening net debt (13.1) (26.3)
Group net debt (16.8) (13.1)
Financial Performance Report continued Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
9
Risks and Uncertainties
The operation of a public company involves a series of risks
and uncertainties across a range of strategic, commercial,
operational and financial areas. Communisis has a robust
internal control and risk management process, outlined in the
Corporate Governance Report. This process is designed to
provide assurance but cannot seek to avoid all risks.
The more significant risks and uncertainties faced by the
Group which could cause the Group’s actual results to vary
materially from historical and expected results are set
out below.
Economic environment
Our business depends upon the level of marketing spend from
our customers. In an economic environment of depressed
spending levels and defensive marketing strategies, there
is a risk that marketing spend amongst our customers
will be severely constrained. Our plans make an assumption
that this will occur to a certain extent, and long-term
contractual relationships also give some insulation. However,
the level of fixed cost in some of our operations makes it
difficult to respond rapidly to large falls in demand.
Therefore, Group profit levels would be materially
affected if a prolonged, widespread and significant
marketing spend reduction in excess of our expectations
were to occur.
Competition
Communisis operates in highly competitive markets and the
Group’s products and services are characterised by continually
evolving industry standards and changing technology driven
by the demands of the Group’s customers. We invest in
product development to sustain competitive advantage.
However, if we fail to keep pace with technological, product
and process change, the Group may experience delay or fail in
introducing new or enhanced services.
We review our pricing and take action to control our cost base
to ensure that we remain competitive and protect our margins.
Failure to do either of the above may result in materially lower
margins and loss of market share.
Operational disruption
Given the nature of our products and services, disruption of
our manufacturing and distribution facilities could impact our
revenues and profits. This risk is managed through a process
including systems of standard operating procedures,
regulatory compliance, monitoring, audit, multiple sourcing
and business continuity management.
A failure of the Group’s information systems platform would
affect all our sites. The Group therefore maintains back-up and
disaster recovery plans.
While the Group maintains insurance at appropriate levels,
some of these operational risks could result in losses and
liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage or in uninsured
losses and liabilities.
Information Security
As our customers increasingly adopt data driven
communications there is a risk that the confidentiality, integrity
and availability of the information processed could be
compromised by factors such as human error, systems failure,
equipment malfunction or deliberate unauthorised action
which may cause reputational damage and financial loss to
the business.
There are a number of controls in place to manage this risk
including Information Security policies and procedures which
have been designed specifically to accommodate each area of
our business and are subject to regular third party review and
certification.
Pensions liabilities
The interaction of, amongst other things, increased life
expectancy, equity market performance and low interest rates
over several years has had a significant negative impact on
the funding levels of the Group’s pension plan.
This has materially and adversely affected the pension plan
funding obligations of the Group and action has been taken
in previous years to mitigate the effects of these factors by
means of the closure to new entrants of the defined benefit
sections of the Group’s pension plan and increased pension
contributions from our employees. In addition, with effect from
30 November 2007, the defined benefit sections of the
Group’s pension plan were closed to future benefit accruals,
and replaced by a new defined contribution section.
Market movements over the last couple of years have
significantly increased the funding deficit as measured by the
triennial valuation of the plan. Any further decline in equity
markets, improvement in life expectancy, or adverse
movement in interest rates could further increase that deficit.
The Company has a well-developed plan to reduce the risk,
the continuation of which is discussed at greater length in the
Chief Executive’s Review and the Financial Performance
Report.
Liabilities arising from past disposals
Over the past few years the Group has made a number of
disposals. In many cases the Group has agreed to retain the
contingent risk, as guarantor, of known or pre-sale liabilities.
Any material changes in known or potential pre-sale liabilities
could result in a cash outflow from the Group and have a
material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial
condition and results.
In particular, the recent serious deterioration in the economic
climate has significantly increased the risk that the current
tenants of leasehold properties previously occupied by
the Group may fail, and that the financial obligations
attaching to those properties could, therefore, fall to be met
by Communisis. Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
10
Environmental risk
The Group seeks to conduct its activities in such a manner
that there is no, or minimal, damage to the environment.
Financial and/or reputational risk could arise if we do not apply
our resources in such a way as to achieve the protection or
improvement of the natural environment.
Network and systems
The Group’s operations depend crucially on complex
networks and systems and on the ability to access similar
networks belonging to other parties. Failures in these networks
or systems may mean that we cannot serve our customers,
exposing us to potential claims and loss of those customers
and to costs of repair or modification of the systems.
High dependency on few high value customers
The Group is dependent upon a small number of high value
customers; 68% of the Group’s turnover is derived from its
top ten customers. If we were to lose one or more of these
customers without replacing them this could result in a
material adverse effect on the Group’s business and
operations.
Off-shoring
We continue to see a trend towards sourcing print and print-
related products from manufacturers outside the United
Kingdom. Whilst our product range and customer base
normally imply time-critical delivery, making overseas sourcing
more difficult, there is a risk that increasing sophistication in
overseas suppliers may impact on our ability to retain turnover
levels within the United Kingdom. To the extent that business
is lost to this lower cost competition, there is a risk that the
Group’s activities could be adversely affected.
Technological change and declining markets
As outlined above in the context of competition risk, the
Group’s activities are subject to constant technological
development and change. Certain of our businesses operate
in market sectors where there is a strong risk that electronic
technology will supersede paper-based communications.
The Group fully recognises this risk and is actively involved in
developing, often in tandem with our customers, new methods
of providing information which will, in due course, replace
existing products.
In addition, the Group maintains an active programme to
increase efficiency in areas of operation facing declining
markets in order to maintain profitability. The success of this
work should protect us from loss of market share and turnover,
but there is a clear risk that if we fail to meet the evolving
requirements of our customers there will be a material adverse
effect on the Group’s results.
Risks and Uncertainties continued Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
11
Communisis remains strongly committed to its corporate
responsibilities in relation to the communities within which it
operates and to mitigation of the environmental consequences
of its activities. We believe that this commitment enhances our
prospects of successfully achieving our business objectives.
We work in close collaboration with the Health, Safety &
Environment Council and employees at each site.
Policy and management
Throughout 2009, as in previous years, we have focused on
the following key areas:
The health and safety of our employees;
Improving our environmental performance;
Conducting our business with honesty and integrity; and
Contributing to the development and wellbeing of our
local communities.
Our internal control procedures also apply to Corporate Social
Responsibility (‘CSR’). Regular risk review reports are presented
to the Board and Leadership Team, and CSR is considered as
and when appropriate in those reports.
Health, Safety and the Environment (‘H,S&E’) –
organisation structure
Due to our success in establishing robust H,S&E Managers in
our core business units, supported by qualified H,S&E
Coordinators, the Group has been able to restructure its H,S&E
organisation during 2009.
The Group Operations Director, who sits on the Board,
is now responsible for the Group’s activities in the field of Health
& Safety. The Group Commercial Director, also on the Board has
responsibility for environmental strategy. The Group
Environmental Support Manager reports directly to the Group
Commercial Director. Each site H,S&E Manager has a ‘dotted
line’ responsibility to the Group Operations Director, but still
directly reports to and supports the Managing Director or
General Manager of the respective individual operating
businesses. Responsibility for H,S&E matters within these
business units or sites remains with the appointed Managing
Director or General Manager.
All of our site H,S&E Managers and Coordinators are ‘NEBOSH’
(National Examination Board in Occupational Safety and Health)
qualified and are all members of IOSH (Institute of Occupational
Safety and Health) and IEMA (Institute of Environmental
Management & Assessment). This, together with a continuous
review, leads us to believe that our H,S&E function is well placed
to provide the highest quality of service to each site and to help
us achieve our goals.
Our commitment in this area is set out in our H,S&E Policies,
supported by our H,S&E Manuals. Our Policies and Manuals are
regularly reviewed by the H,S&E team, with the next revision
scheduled for April 2010. The Manuals contain details on
organisational arrangements (including roles and responsibilities),
management and operational procedures, together with best
practice guidance, which enables us to meet the requirements of
current H,S&E legislation applicable to our business activities.
Through audit, inspection and arranged visits the H,S&E team
monitor and report on how relevant policies and procedures are
implemented by our operating businesses. Collectively, we
ensure that employees are appropriately trained to understand
the working procedures they must follow.
In line with Group procedures each operating site is audited by a
H,S&E management team in order to benchmark performance
across the Group, helping sites to identify and prioritise issues for
improvement and ensuring legal and regulatory compliance.
The results of these audits are presented directly to the
Group Operations Director and to all relevant members of the
Leadership Team, and appropriate action is taken.
H,S&E issues are discussed at various levels within the Group
including a combination of monthly Group H,S&E performance
review meetings which are chaired by the Group Operations
Director, and quarterly H,S&E team standardisation meetings.
This process operates to allow the cross-fertilisation of ideas
and to monitor the H,S&E performance of the operating
businesses, and allows them to set site-specific targets for
improvement, which may exceed the requirements set out in the
Group objectives.
Environmental performance
In our 2008 CSR Report we reported significant improvement
against our Group environmental objectives, which combined a
series of challenges and which we hope to accomplish in the
three year period from 2008 to 2010. Our commitment to
reducing our environmental impact has not changed and we
are pleased to report that in 2009 we have continued to make
further progress.
Unless stated otherwise, 2007 remains the baseline year for
comparison of the current objectives. We will continually review
our baseline data in line with our current organisational structure.
Progress during 2009
Managing our systems
We have retained certification to the international
Environmental Management Standard ISO 14001:2004 at all of
our UK operations. We have also retained our multisite
certification to the Forest Stewardship Council (‘FSC’) and the
Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification
schemes (‘PEFC’) chain of custody standards.
In 2009 we purchased 35,200 tonnes of paper, of which 99%
was FSC or PEFC certified. In 2008 we reported that 12% of
our paper tonnage was FSC or PEFC certified, however this
was only tonnage specifically requested by our customers.
In 2009 we have included all FSC or PEFC paper purchased
Corporate Social Responsibility Report Communisis plc 2009
both by request and by recommendation which is a more
accurate account.
During 2009 we did not encounter any prohibitions,
abatements and/or prosecutions as a result of breaches of
environmental legislation.
Working to reduce carbon
We have made the following amendment to our conversion
factors:
Historical energy conversion factors have been amended in
line with DEFRA Voluntary Reporting Guidelines 2009 and
all electricity data will be calculated using the grid average
conversion factor.
We have made the following adjustments to our baseline data:
The Altrincham site has been removed from the baseline
data because it has not been operational since 2007 and is
no longer part of the Group.
Speke is our newest site. It first became operational in
2007. To allow an appropriate period for growth, our Speke
operation has been removed from the carbon footprint and
carbon intensity baseline data and will be reported as an
exception to our achievements. We will continue to include
Speke within our Group carbon footprint. We expect energy
consumption to peak by December 2010 when we will
review and publish appropriate carbon efficiency reduction
targets for the Speke operation.
Our amended carbon footprint for the 2007 baseline year is
14,321 carbon tonnes (Ct), not including Speke, and we are
pleased to report our carbon impact for 2009 was 12,176 Ct,
a reduction of 15%.
Purchase of energy
During 2009 Communisis purchased 8,208,476 KWh of its
electricity from renewable sources, approximately 38% of our
total electricity supplied.
In 2009 we have reduced our gas consumption by 22% and
reduced our electricity consumption by 13%.
Carbon intensity has increased at our Leeds and Lisburn
operations due to reduced volumes of product.
Our Leeds operation achieved an 80% reduction in its Climate
Change Levy as a result of the existing Climate Change
Agreement, as a member of the British Print Industry Federation
(BPIF). There are no other sites within the Group that are eligible
to participate in this scheme.
Producing less waste
We are very pleased to report that in 2009 we have reduced our
waste sent to landfill by 51%, significantly exceeding our target
of 20% by 2010. Our tonnage for 2007 was 439 tonnes,
in comparison with 276 tonnes in 2008 and 134 tonnes in 2009.
We also take pride in reporting that since 2005 Communisis has
reduced its waste to landfill by 93%, from 1,877 tonnes in 2005
to 134 tonnes in 2009.
We continue to achieve these successes through a combination
of increased recycling and working closely with our waste
contractors to ensure that we utilise all available recycling services.
Where possible, and where environmentally friendly alternatives
exist, we will always consider as a first option reducing the amount
of waste we create by removing the stream altogether.
Influencing our supply chain
We are also pleased to report that as of December 2009 100%
of our UK approved print suppliers have achieved ISO
14001:2004 certification.
These statistics are continually verified by our Sourcing Team
during supplier audits. Since January 2008 we have removed
from our approved supplier list ten printers who were unable
to comply with our requirements.
The Sourcing Team has also made excellent progress with our
amended criteria for paper suppliers. We are able to report
that 100% of our paper tonnage is supplied by mills which
have FSC or PEFC certification; in 2007 this was 90% and in
2008 95%.
Communisis made a commitment to ensure that 99.5%
of what we produce is recyclable. In our 2008 report we
stated that envelope windows were the main non-recyclable
element of our products and this made up approximately
2% of the product supplied. Following the issue by the Waste
and Resources Action Programme (WRAP) of PAS
2020:2009 Direct Marketing – Environmental Performance
Specification, we have noted its conclusion that white
envelopes with windows are recyclable at kerbside collection
throughout the UK but brown paper envelopes, plastic
envelopes and envelopes which use rubber based
adhesives are not. On this basis we can report that 100% of
our core product is recyclable. We continue to source and
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
12
Carbon intensity* Increase/
2009 2008 (decrease)
Leeds 0.27 0.24 12.5%)
Trafford 0.22 0.24 (8.3%)
Crewe 0.30 0.36 (16.7%)
Lisburn 0.45 0.41 9.76%)
* carbon intensity is measured in tonnes and represent the amount
of CO 2 emitted per tonne of paper processed.
Carbon Footprint
2009 2008 2007
Ct Ct Ct
not including Speke 12,176 13,268 14,321
including Speke 14,430 15,441 15,335
Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
13
offer our customers biodegradable options for window
materials.
Financial investment
2009 saw a continuation of the financial investment which
started in 2008 and covered a variety of initiatives including
wastage audits, the expansion of environmentally friendly
digital print capabilities, energy efficient lighting systems and
building efficiency improvements as appropriate.
During 2010 we will review the commitment to invest within
the current Group structure and we will continue our efforts to
improve our environmental performance.
Greenprint
Our Greenprint document, which explains the challenges we
have identified whilst addressing our environmental impact,
continues to be fully relevant after its first issue. However, we
intend to update this document at the end of 2010 in line with
the full reduction target review. In the meantime we will ensure
that our stakeholders are kept up to date with our additional
services and case studies on our environmental achievements,
investment and commitment.
Greenprint can be found at www.communisis.com
Policy
Our Environmental Policy will be reviewed and reissued in
2010 to reflect the current organisational structure. Objectives
and targets will also be reviewed at the end of the current
measurement period in December 2010.
Absolute Intuistic Limited (‘Ai’)
We aim to integrate Ai into our Group 14001:2004 certificate
and associated objectives during 2010/11.
Carbon Reduction Commitment
Communisis will become a participant in the Carbon
Reduction Commitment in April 2010 and has outsourced the
compliance management of this to Inenco for a period of
three years from 2009.
Health and safety (‘H&S’) performance
Our objective is to safeguard the health, safety and welfare
of all our employees, contractors, visitors and members
of the public who may be affected by our operations.
Continued progress towards this goal has again been
achieved during 2009 with a further decrease in accident
frequency rates.
In 2008 we recorded an Accident Incidence Rate per 1,000
employees of 8.40; we have achieved another significant
reduction during the last year, to achieve an Accident
Incidence Rate per 1,000 employees during 2009 of 6.81.
The overall number of accidents in the year has also reduced
from 143 to 102. There has been a corresponding slight
reduction in the number of RIDDORs (Reporting of Diseases
and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations) from 9 to 8. For the
purpose of this report a RIDDOR is defined as an absence
from work of three days or more caused by industrial injury.
The graph overleaf shows our accident and RIDDOR totals
during the period 2005-2009.
It is also very important that all near misses are formally
reported and action taken in terms of investigation, recording
and analysis. This is actively encouraged on all our sites
and enables suitable proactive, preventative action to be
taken.
In 2008 there were 125 recorded cases of near misses, which
fell to 47 cases during 2009. This is again a significant
reduction, which we believe is a direct result of continuing
strong H&S management in all our operations.
We are pleased with the successes achieved in 2009 in
reducing the incidence of accidents, the number of RIDDORs
and the number of reported near misses. Our line managers
take a proactive role in the management of H&S in the areas
for which they are responsible and H&S is seen as a core
management responsibility. This is supported by specific
training across all sites.
During the past year we have suffered no prosecutions
resulting from breaches of health and safety regulations.
Current Status of Group Environmental Objectives
Maintain our certification
to ISO 14001:2004 Achieved
Measure our carbon footprint
by the end of 2007 Achieved
Reduce our carbon footprint by 15%
by the end of 2010 Achieved
Reduce our energy intensity by 20%
by the end of 2010 Ongoing
Reduce our use of landfill by 20%
by end of 2010 Exceeded
Reduce our paper wastage by 20%
by the end of 2010 Ongoing
99.5% of what we produce or supply
will be recyclable by the end of 2009 Achieved
Achieve and maintain our certification to
FSC/PEFC Chain of Custody standards Achieved
Migrate our paper supply to FSC or
PEFC compliance by the end of 2010 Ongoing
Expand our supplier qualification criteria
for external printers to comply with
ISO 14001 by the end of 2008 Achieved Communisis plc 2009
In addition each of our major operational sites is certificated to
the international standard Occupational Health and Safety
Assessment Series (‘OHSAS’) 18001:2007.
People
Our people are the most important resource in our efforts to
achieve improvement in our performance. We continually
review and strengthen our team with the skills needed to
enable us to deliver business growth as the business
environment changes.
We offer competitive remuneration, including long-term
incentives, to ensure we attract the best, and we remain
committed to the personal development of our employees.
Individual training, tailored to specific needs, is offered
throughout Communisis via the use of internal and external
courses.
During 2009 our training efforts have been focused principally
on further developing the skills of our account teams, while
our regular training on H,S&E matters has continued in a
similar vein to earlier years. In 2009 the graduate development
programme has continued with a good deal of success.
Apprenticeships and NVQ programmes have continued at our
manufacturing sites.
The external perception of the Group is also given careful
consideration in order to maintain our reputation for honesty
and integrity. We actively encourage an open culture, and
strongly believe that this is a significant factor in helping to
achieve our business objectives.
Community relations
We recognise our responsibilities to the communities in
which we operate and encourage our businesses and
employees to support the development and wellbeing of their
local communities through a variety of activities. However,
striking the right balance between community support and
shareholders’ interests, something which is difficult enough in
good times, becomes a severe challenge during an economic
recession. Regrettably, we have reduced our charitable
donations in 2009 to £1,542 (2008 £21,600); however,
wherever possible and practicable, we have responded
positively to employee requests for ad hoc temporary
relaxation of normal employment disciplines to facilitate their
personal contributions to their charitable and community
interests.
No political expenditure was incurred during the year, nor were
any contributions made for political purposes.
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
14
350
300
250
200
150
100
150
100
Number of Accidents and RIDDORs 2005-2009
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
No. of Accidents No. of Accidents (trend) No. of RIDDORs
21
16 13
9
281
8
102
232
292
143
Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
15
Consolidated Financial Statements prepared
under IFRS
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report
and the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with
applicable United Kingdom law and regulations and
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) as
adopted by the European Union.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors
must not approve the financial statements for the Group
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of
the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the
Group for that period. Under IFRS the directors are required to
prepare financial statements which present fairly the financial
position of the Group and the financial performance and cash
flows of the Group for that period. In preparing these financial
statements, the directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
present information, including accounting policies, in a
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and
understandable information;
make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent;
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the
specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other
events and conditions on the Group’s financial position and
financial performance;
state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to
any material departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements; and
prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will
continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records which show and explain the Group’s transactions and
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
Parent Company Financial Statements prepared
under UK GAAP
The directors are responsible for preparing the parent
company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable
United Kingdom law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors
have elected to prepare the financial statements in
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (‘UK GAAP’). Under company law the
directors must not approve the financial statements unless
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state
of affairs of the Company and of the profit and loss of the
Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are
required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent;
state whether applicable accounting standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements; and
prepare the financial statements on the going concern
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any
time the financial position of the Company and enable them to
ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
GOVERNANCE
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 1 2 3
4 5 6
7 8 9
Board of Directors
Not pictured:
Steve Vaughan
Chief Executive (until 31 October 2009) Age 49
Appointed to the Board on 4 October 2006 as
Chief Executive. He was Group Chief Executive of
Synstar PLC from 2001 to 2005. From 1996 he
held a number of senior roles at EDS (UK) Ltd,
latterly as Managing Director of its UK industry
division.
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
16 Peter Hickson
Chairman Age 64
Appointed to the Board as Chairman in
December 2007. Chairman of the Nominations
Committee and a member of the
Remuneration Committee. Mr Hickson is the
Senior Independent Director of London and
Continental Railways Ltd, and a non-executive
director of Kazakhmys PLC. He was Chairman
of Anglian Water Group from 2003 to 2009, and
served as Finance Director of Powergen plc
between 1996 and 2002. He was a non-
executive director of Scottish Power plc from
2006 to 2007, Marconi Corporation plc from
2004 to 2007, and RAC plc from 1994 to 2002.
Andy Blundell
Chief Executive (from 31 October 2009) Age 49
Appointed to the Board as Chief Executive
Designate on 25 August 2009, becoming Chief
Executive from 31 October 2009. He joined
Communisis in January 2008 as Managing
Director, Print Sourcing and became Group
Sales Director in November 2008. Prior to
Communisis, Mr Blundell was a Managing
Director at Bemrose Booth Ltd and previously
a Managing Director at De La Rue plc.
Peter King
Finance Director Age 47
Appointed to the Board in September 2006 as
Finance Director. He joined Communisis in
June 2005 as Group Financial Controller and
was formerly Director of Finance for Norwich
Union Life, a subsidiary of Aviva plc, for four
years. Prior to working at Norwich Union, he
spent 11 years with KPMG.
3 2 1
Alistair Blaxill
Executive Director Age 48
Appointed to the Board on 1 May 2008.
Responsible for the Group Technology &
Services business. Mr Blaxill joined
Communisis in March 2007 as Managing
Director, Group Accounts. Mr Blaxill was
formerly Director of Technology Services (UK
and Ireland) for Hewlett Packard. Prior to this
he was Managing Director and a member of the
Operational Board at IT managed services
business Synstar PLC between 2003 and 2004
and also spent three years from 2000 to 2003
at software and services business XKO Group
plc as Managing Director.
John Wells
Group Commercial Director Age 56
Appointed to the Board on 31 October 2009.
Mr Wells has been Group Commercial Director
since 2002. Responsible for the Group’s
commercial strategy particularly in respect of
major client relationships. Also responsible for
sourcing activities. He formerly headed up the
Group’s Print and Direct Mail businesses.
Dave Rushton
Group Operations Director Age 48
Appointed to the Board as Group Operations
Director on 25 August 2009. He joined
Communisis in 2003 as General Manager,
Transactional Print in Manchester and was
appointed Managing Director of the Group’s
Direct Mail business in January 2007 before
becoming Group Operations Director in
September 2008. Prior to this Mr Rushton held
managing director positions within Rexam plc
and Avery Dennison Corporation.
5 4 6
Roger Jennings
Non-executive Director Age 60
Appointed to the Board in June 2002. He is a
member of the Remuneration, Audit and
Nominations Committees. Also non-executive
Chairman of Limelight PR Ltd. Formerly he
has held senior management positions in
consumer products companies and
international consultancy including Managing
Director of Sevenoaks Sound and Vision Ltd
and Chief Executive of Austin Reed Group
PLC.
Michael Firth
Non-executive Director Age 67
Appointed to the Board in December 2002.
Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee and a member of
the Audit and Nominations Committees. Also
a non-executive director of Network Rail
Limited and Gartmore European Investment
Trust plc; formerly a non-executive director of
Somerfield plc and First Technology PLC.
Retiredin2002fromhis role as Head of
Corporate Banking at HSBC Bank plc.
Nigel Howes
Non-executive Director Age 59
Appointed to the Board in December 2007.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and a
member of the Remuneration and Nominations
Committees. Mr Howes is a Chartered
Accountant and served as an Audit and
Advisory partner at Arthur Andersen from 1984
to 2002 and then at Deloitte from 2002 to 2004.
Previous roles include non-executive director
of Wraith plc and ScS Upholstery plc.
7 9 8
Leadership Team
The Leadership Team is the operating
board of Communisis plc and
comprises the following key people
from across the Communisis Group:
Andy Blundell Chief Executive*
(from 31 October 2009)
Peter King Finance Director*
Alistair Blaxill Executive Director*
Dave Rushton Group Operations
Director*
John Wells Group Commercial
Director*
Tony Commons Group Human Resources
Director
David Monks Director, Strategic
Market Development
Gurdev Singh Managing Director, Direct
Channels
(from 16 December 2009)
* Main Board Director
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
17 Directors’ Report
The directors present their Annual Report together with the
Financial Statements and independent auditors’ reports for
the year ended 31 December 2009.
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group were the provision of
products and services to assist our clients with effective and
profitable customer communications. This included the
delivery of data and analysis services to help clients with their
customer strategies, as well as risk analytics. It also included
the production and distribution of targeted and personalised
direct marketing campaigns through both on and offline
channels and the provision of print management services to
assist clients procure more effectively. Alongside this, we have
continued to deliver the production of transactional printed
products which include cheques, bills and statements.
Results and dividends
The results for the year are shown on page 36. An interim
dividend of 0.860p per ordinary share was paid in the financial
year ended 31 December 2009. The directors are proposing a
final dividend of 0.43p per ordinary share which, if approved,
will make the dividend for the full year 1.29p per share (2008
2.495p). The final dividend is payable on 4 May 2010 to
shareholders on the register at close of business on 6 April
2010. The proposed dividend will be put to the shareholders
at the Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2010.
Business Review and management report
Pages 2 to 14 (which include a review of the business and its
performance, a description of the principal risks and
uncertainties and details of expected future developments in
the Group) are incorporated in this report and, together with
the Key Performance Indicators below, they constitute both
the business review required by section 417 Companies Act
2006 and the management report required by Disclosure &
Transparency Rule 4.
The Group’s Key Performance Indicators (‘KPIs’) are set out in
the table on the right.
Financial KPIs
Profit measures
Profit after taxation is calculated after all exceptional items and
taxation.
Profit from operations before exceptional items is calculated
by excluding exceptional items such as gains or losses
relating to business disposals and legacy property costs from
Profit from operations.
Adjusted dividend cover is the ratio of interim dividends paid
and final dividends proposed to Profit before exceptional items
after tax.
Cash flow and net debt measures
Net debt is calculated as total loans and borrowings, including
overdrafts, net of cash and cash equivalents. For the purposes
of capital management, the Group considers undiscounted
interest-bearing loans and borrowings as the appropriate
measure for the purposes of determining net debt. This
excludes amounts owed under hire purchase contracts as
disclosed in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Debt outside credit terms is gross overdue trade debt, as a
percentage of total trade debtors.
All profit, cash flow and net debt performance measures
are described in the Financial Performance Report on pages
6to8.
Non-financial KPIs
Environmental measures
Carbon footprint is the total CO2 emissions, in tonnes,
resulting from our purchased gas and electricity.
Health and safety measures
Accident incidence rate is the total number of accidents
reported in the year per 1,000 employees.
Performance against health, safety and environmental KPIs is
described in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on
pages 11 to 14.
Other measures
The number of our top one hundred customers to whom the
Group sells more than one service is referred to in the Chief
Executive’s Review on page 5.
Key Performance Indicators
2009 2008
Financial
Profit after taxation (£million) 3.2 8.6
Profit from operations before
exceptional items (£million) 7.2 15.0
Adjusted dividend cover 2.0 2.54
Net debt (£million) 16.8 13.1
Debt outside credit terms (%) 5.9 7.0
Non-financial
Carbon footprint (tonnes) 14,430 15,441
Accident incidence rate (per 1,000 employees) 6.81 8.40
Number of our top 100 customers
to whom we sell multiple services 40 32
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
18 Directors and Governance
Biographical details of the present directors are set out
on page 17.
The directors who served during the year are shown below:
P C F Hickson Chairman
S W Vaughan Chief Executive
(resigned 31 October 2009) (until 31 October 2009)
A M Blundell Chief Executive
(appointed 25 August 2009 ) (from 31 October 2009)
A J C Blaxill Executive Director
M G Firth Non-executive Director
N G Howes Non-executive Director
R W Jennings Non-executive Director
P R King Finance Director
D Rushton Group Operations
(appointed 25 August 2009) Director
J A Wells Group Commercial
(appointed 31 October 2009) Director
Additional information relating to directors’ remuneration,
service contracts and interests in the share capital of the
Company is given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on
pages 28 to 35.
The directors retiring by rotation under Article 92 of the
Company’s Articles of Association are Mr Firth and Mr Howes
who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Messrs A M Blundell, D Rushton and J A Wells, having been
appointed during the year, retire in accordance with Article 97
of the Company’s Articles of Association and offer themselves
for election.
The Corporate Governance Report on pages 24 to 27 is
incorporated in this report in order that it should provide the
corporate governance statement required by Disclosure &
Transparency Rule 7.2.1.
Group structure
The UK activities of the Group are directed under two
operating companies, Communisis UK Limited and Absolute
Intuistic Limited. They are conducted through four separate
divisions: Technology & Services, Print Sourcing, Direct Mail,
and Transactional.
Research and development
Expenditure on research and development in the year was
£364,000 (2008 £98,000). During 2009 our expenditure
focused on the integration of our core technology platforms
together with developing tools to increase our ability to rapidly
deploy solutions tailored to customers’ needs, without the
cost and risk of developing bespoke solutions. New features
were added to our digital asset management system in order
to meet the stringent security requirements demanded by our
government customers. Our online ordering platform was also
expanded to include new credit card processing capabilities
and to enable us to stop using some legacy platforms.
Property, plant and equipment
Details of the movements in property, plant and equipment are
given in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The directors are of the opinion that the market value of the
Group’s land and buildings is in excess of the book value,
although the difference is not significant.
Share capital
There have been no movements in the authorised, allotted and
fully paid share capital during the year. Note 20 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements describes the share capital.
Purchase of own shares
The directors will be asking shareholders to renew the authority
granted to them at last year’s Annual General Meeting to
purchase the Company’s own shares. The existing authority is
for the purchase of up to 14.99% of the Company’s issued
ordinary share capital at a minimum price per share of their
nominal value of 25p. However, since the shares have traded
at less than their nominal value in recent weeks, the renewal of
the authority proposes a minimum price of the lower of 25p
and the lowest market value in the five business days prior to
a purchase. There is, however, no present intention to exercise
this authority in the foreseeable future.
No share buy-backs were undertaken during 2008 or 2009.
Share option schemes
Further options were granted during the year under the
Group’s share option schemes. Details of the options
outstanding at the year end are given in Note 14 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Corporate social responsibility (including charitable and
political donations)
The report on pages 11 to 14 (which is incorporated in this
report) sets out the Group’s approach in this area and includes
the requisite disclosure on charitable and political donations.
Employees
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for
employment from disabled persons having regard to their
particular aptitudes and abilities. Every effort is made to continue
the employment of, and arrange appropriate training for,
employees who have become disabled during their employment
with the Group. Depending on their skills and abilities, disabled
employees have the same career prospects and opportunities for
promotion as other employees.
The Group’s practice is to keep all its employees informed
on matters affecting them, through consultation and information
on the general financial and economic factors affecting the
Group’s performance. This is achieved in a variety of ways.
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
19 The Communisis Information and Consultation Forum has been
in place for the last two years. Business units elect the forum
members who attend update meetings with the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive also holds roadshow events at all sites to
update groups of employees on strategy, performance and
progress, and issues regular emails to all employees throughout
the year to update them on these matters. The updates are
cascaded down through management to employees who do not
have access to email.
Major interests in shares
As of 24 February 2010, the Company had been notified under
Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5 (‘DTR5’) of the following
significant holdings of voting rights associated with its shares:
Policy in respect of payment of suppliers
The Group’s policy is to agree terms of payment when
engaging a new supplier. Each business unit within the Group
adopts its own payment terms. The payment terms are
specified on our standard documentation to ensure our
suppliers are aware of them. The Group does not follow any
specified code or recognised standard in respect of payment
of suppliers.
The number of days’ purchases in creditors at the year-end
was 73 days (2008 70 days).
Treasury policy
The Group takes a centralised approach to the management of
debt, liquid resources and interest rate risk. It finances its
activities with a combination of bank loans, finance and
operating leases, cash and short-term deposits. Uncommitted
overdraft facilities are used to satisfy short-term cash flow
requirements. The Group’s facilities are all on variable interest
terms and therefore the Group is exposed to interest rate
movements although, as explained in Note 24 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, interest rate swaps are in
place in respect of part of the Group’s indebtedness. Please refer
to Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the
Financial Performance Report on pages 6 to 8 for further details.
Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provision
Article 147 of the Company’s Articles of Association (which
were amended at the 2009 Annual General Meeting) provides
that, subject to the provisions of the enactments concerning
companies (which, among other things, limit the scope of
indemnities in favour of directors), every director, officer and
the auditor of the Company is to be indemnified out of the
assets of the Company against all costs, charges, expenses,
losses and liabilities which he may sustain or incur in or about
the execution of his office or in relation thereto. This is a
qualifying third party indemnity provision within the meaning of
section 234 Companies Act 2006.
The Company also purchases insurance in respect of claims
against the directors or officers of the Company and any
subsidiary. This insurance provides coverage in respect of
some of the Company’s liabilities under Article 147.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely
to affect its future development, performance and position are
set out in the Business Review on pages 2 to 14. The financial
position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and
borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Performance
Report on pages 6 to 8. In addition, Notes 24 and 27 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements include the Group’s
financial risk management objectives; policies and processes
for managing its capital; details of its financial instruments
and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and
liquidity risk.
The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements
by way of its bank facilities which are due for renewal by
February 2012. The current economic conditions create
uncertainty particularly over (a) the level of demand for the
Group’s products and services; and (b) the availability of bank
finance in the foreseeable future.
The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of
reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show
that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its
current facilities. The Group will open renewal negotiations
with the banks in due course and has, at this stage, not sought
any written commitment that the facilities will be renewed.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence
for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the
going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual
financial statements.
Directors’ Report continued
Shareholder Voting Rights %
Gartmore Investment Limited 20,164,066 14.55
North Atlantic Value LLP 14,508,112 10.47
Lloyds Banking Group plc 10,997,334 7.93
UBS Investment Bank 7,644,378 5.52
Legal & General Group Plc
and Legal & General Investment
Management Limited 6,948,419 5.01
Botting Family Investment Funds 6,218,849 4.48
SVG Investment Management Limited 4,977,499 3.59
Prudential plc 4,236,888 3.05
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
20 Annual General Meeting
Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held on
27 April 2010 is contained in the separate document sent to
shareholders with this Report and available on the Company’s
website.
Disclosure of information to auditors
In accordance with section 418(2) of the Companies Act 2006
the directors confirm that, so far as each is aware, there is
no relevant audit information of which the auditors are
unaware, and each director has taken all steps that he ought
to have taken as a director to make himself aware of, and to
establish that the auditors are aware of, any relevant
audit information.
Additional information for shareholders
The following provides the additional information required for
shareholders as a result of the implementation of the
Takeovers Directive into UK law.
At 31 December 2009, the Company’s issued share capital
comprised:
Each share carries one vote with the result that the total voting
rights at the same date were 138,602,981.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between
shareholders that may result in restrictions in the transfer of
shares or voting rights.
Ordinary shares
On a show of hands in a general meeting of the Company every
holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and
entitled to vote shall have one vote and, on a poll, every
member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote
shall have one vote for every ordinary share held. The Notice
of the Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for
exercising voting rights either in person or by proxy in
relation to resolutions to be passed at that meeting. All proxy
votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in
relation to each resolution are announced at the Annual
General Meeting and published on the Company’s website after
the meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in
the Company other than:
the registration of transfers of shares may be suspended
at such times and for such periods (not exceeding 30 days
in any year) as the directors may determine;
certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by
laws and regulations (for example, insider trading laws and
market requirements relating to close periods); and
pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority whereby certain employees of the Company
require the approval of the Company to deal in the
Company’s securities.
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended
by a special resolution at a general meeting of the
shareholders. As foreshadowed in the notice convening last
year’s Annual General Meeting, the Articles have been
reviewed and the forthcoming Annual General Meeting will be
invited to pass a special resolution adopting new Articles
which take full account of the completion of implementation of
the Companies Act 2006 on 1 October 2009. The notice
convening the forthcoming Annual General Meeting explains
where a copy of the proposed revised Articles may be seen
and summarises their provisions.
Directors are reappointed by ordinary resolution at a general
meeting of the shareholders. The Board can appoint a director
but anyone so appointed must be elected by an ordinary
resolution at the next Annual General Meeting. At each Annual
General Meeting, one third of the directors previously elected
at an Annual General Meeting must retire by rotation.
Each retiring director who wishes to continue to serve must
be re-elected at the meeting.
Directors’ authorities
The directors are authorised under the terms of the
predecessor to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to
issue ordinary shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal
value of £8,163,683. In addition, pursuant to the predecessor
to Section 570 of the Companies Act 2006, the directors are
authorised to allot shares for cash, without first offering them
to existing shareholders, up to a limit of 5% of the Company’s
issued ordinary share capital. This authority also extends to
give the directors the power to allot shares for cash in
connection with a rights issue.
Both these authorities will expire at the Annual General
Meeting on 27 April 2010, and, at the meeting, the directors
will be seeking equivalent authorities under the provisions of
the Companies Act 2006.
Significant interests
Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company
are shown in the table on page 34. There have been no
changes in directors’ interests as shown in that table since
% of total Issued
Number £000 Share Capital
Ordinary shares
of 25p each 138,602,981 34,651 100
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
21 31 December 2009 and up to the close of business on
24 February 2010. Significant interests in voting rights notified
under DTR5 are shown on page 20.
Contracts with shareholders
There are no contracts of significance, or any other contracts
between the Company and a controlling shareholder within
the meaning of Listing Rule 9.8.4R.
Essential arrangements
There are no arrangements or contracts which are essential
to the business of the Group.
Significant share schemes
The Communisis Employee Benefit Trust holds 0.2% of the
issued share capital of the Company in trust for the benefit of
employees of the Group and their dependants. The voting
rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the Trustees.
Change of control
The Company is party to a number of contracts which may be
terminated by the other party in the event of a change of
control of the Company.
There are no agreements between the Company and its
directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of
office or employment (whether through resignation,
redundancy or otherwise) that occurs because of a takeover
bid. The Company is party to a number of banking agreements
which, upon a change of control of the Company, are
terminable by the banks upon provision of written notice.
Auditors
The directors will place a resolution before the Annual General
Meeting to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors for the
ensuing year.
Approved by the Board on 25 February 2010 and signed on its
behalf by
Sarah Morton
Secretary
Directors’ Report continued
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
22 Each of us, for himself and on behalf of each other director
who held office on 31 December 2009, confirms that, to the
best of his knowledge:
the Consolidated Financial Statements, prepared in
accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and IFRS as
adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets,
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
the Business Review (comprising pages 2 to 14 and the
Key Performance Indicators on page 18) includes a fair
review of the development and performance of the
Company and the undertakings included in the
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description
of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
By order of the Board.
A M Blundell P R King
Chief Executive Finance Director
25 February 2010 25 February 2010
Directors’ Responsibility Statements Pursuant
to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
23 Corporate Governance Report
The Board continues to be committed to high standards of
corporate governance. This report, together with the Directors’
Remuneration Report describes how the Board applies the
principles of good governance and best practice as set out in
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the
Financial Reporting Council which is publicly available at
http://www.frc.org.uk/corporate/combinedcode.cfm.
A statement of compliance may be found at the end of this
report.
Board
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, five executive
directors and three independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman has primary responsibility for the running of the
Board and for ensuring effective communication with
shareholders. The Chief Executive is responsible for operations
and for the development of strategic plans and initiatives for
consideration by the Board. The division of responsibilities
between the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been
clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Mr Firth is the Senior Independent Director.
The other significant commitments of the Chairman are
detailed in his biography on page 17.
The Board schedules ten meetings each year, and also meets
at other times as appropriate. The table below shows the
attendances (and maximum possible attendances) of each
director at the meetings of the Board and its committees held
during the year.
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved
for its decision and approval. These include key public
announcements (such as financial statements), acquisitions
and disposals, major capital expenditure, raising capital and
accounting and other Group policies.
The Company ensures that the Board is supplied with
appropriate and timely information to enable it to discharge its
duties and a pack of financial and other information is
provided for each Board meeting. There is also a procedure for
directors to seek independent professional advice when
necessary. All directors have access to the advice and
services of the Company Secretary.
All directors receive an induction appropriate to their individual
needs on joining the Board. The Company provides the
necessary resource and assistance to develop and update the
directors’ knowledge and capabilities.
During the year the Board reviewed its own performance in the
context of the changed needs of the Group. As a result of the
review, the Board decided to strengthen the representation
of management by appointing Mr Blundell, Mr Rushton and
Mr Wells. The Board has since comprised the Chairman, three
non-executive directors and five executive directors but remains
in compliance with the Combined Code since the Company has
been continuously below the FTSE350 for many years.
The Senior Independent Director, after consultation with the
other directors, conducted an appraisal interview with the
Chairman during the year.
The Chairman met with the other non-executive directors,
without the executive directors present, on two occasions
during the year (in addition to the meetings concerned with
the recruitment of a new Chief Executive) to discuss a range
of issues including strategy, financial performance, progress
towards targets and management performance.
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that one-third
of the directors retire at each Annual General Meeting. At the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting Messrs Blundell,
Rushton and Wells, all of whom have been appointed to the
Board since the last Annual General Meeting, will be proposed
for election to the Board. Of the remaining six directors, two
Communisis plc 2009
2009 Attendances (out of possible attendances) at meetings of the Board and its standing committees
Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Administration
& Finance
P C F Hickson 13(13) – 3(3) 3(3) –
S W Vaughan 11(11) – – – 7(7)
A M Blundell 6(6) – – – 1(1)
P R King 13(13) – – – 8(8)
A J C Blaxill 13(13) – – – –
M G Firth 13(13) 3(3) 3(3) 3(3) –
N G Howes 13(13) 3(3) 3(3) 3(3) –
R W Jennings 12(13) 3(3) 3(3) 3(3) –
D Rushton 5(6) – – – –
J A Wells 2(2) – – – –
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
24 must retire by rotation in accordance with the requirements of
the Articles. Mr Firth and Mr Howes will retire by rotation and
are recommended for re-election. Both are considered by the
Board to continue to demonstrate the level of skills and
commitment to be fully effective in their respective roles as
members of the Board.
The Chairman and non-executive directors are appointed for
a specified term of three years, subject to re-election.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board,
through the Chairman, on all corporate governance matters.
Board Committees
The Board has four Committees, Audit, Remuneration,
Nominations, and Administration & Finance, all of which have
terms of reference which deal specifically with their authorities
and duties. The terms of reference may be viewed on the
Company’s website (www.communisis.com).
Only the Committee Chairmen and members of the
Committees are entitled to be present at the Audit,
Remuneration and Nominations Committee meetings, but
others may attend by invitation.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Mr Jennings, Mr Firth and
Mr Howes, who is the Chairman of the Committee. Mr Howes
is a Chartered Accountant and former partner in the audit
practice at Deloitte. Appointments to the Committee are made
by the Board, which considers that the membership of the
Audit Committee as a whole has sufficient recent and relevant
financial experience to fulfil its duties.
The Committee is provided with sufficient resources to
undertake its duties. It has access to the services of the
Company Secretary (who acts as secretary to the Committee)
and all other employees. The Committee may take
independent legal or professional advice when it believes it is
necessary to do so.
The Committee meets as required, but not less than three
times a year. Other directors attend Committee meetings by
invitation. The Committee also meets in the absence of
management for discussions with the external auditor (who
attends all of its meetings), and in the absence of the external
auditor when undertaking its annual appraisal of the
performance of the auditor.
The main roles and responsibilities of the Committee are to:
monitor the financial reporting process;
monitor the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control,
internal audit function, and risk management systems;
monitor the statutory audit of the Annual Report and
Consolidated Financial Statements; and
review and monitor the independence of the auditor,
and the provision of additional services by the auditor to
the Group.
If any material cause for concern or scope for improvement is
revealed the Committee will recommend to the Board any
action required.
The main activities of the Committee in 2009 were:
assessing the implications of the significant financial
reporting issues related to the preparation of the
Group’s Financial Statements;
assessing the effectiveness of the systems established
to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and
non-financial risks;
monitoring the integrity of the Group’s internal financial
controls;
monitoring and reviewing the plans, work and effectiveness
of the internal audit function, including action taken
following any significant failure in internal control;
monitoring the Group’s implementation of any new
accounting policies;
reviewing with the external auditor the findings of its work
and the effectiveness of the external audit process; and
reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external
auditor.
The Committee also has an agreed policy on the engagement
of the external auditor for the supply of non-audit services.
The policy specifies services which may not be provided and
details a cost threshold above which engagement will be
carefully considered. This allows the Committee to satisfy itself
that auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee comprises the non-executive
directors and is chaired by Mr Hickson. Appointments to the
Committee are made by the Board.
The Committee is provided with sufficient resources to
undertake its duties. It has access to the services of the
Company Secretary (who acts as secretary to the Committee)
and all other employees. The Committee may take
independent legal or professional advice when it believes it
necessary to do so.
The Committee meets as required.
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
25 Corporate Governance Report continued
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
26
The main roles and responsibilities of the Committee are to:
consider, at the request of the Board or the Chairman, the
making of any appointment or reappointment to the Board;
identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board,
candidates to fill Board vacancies as they arise;
evaluate the skills, knowledge and experience of the Board
and, in the light of this, prepare a description of the role
and capabilities required for a particular appointment; and
keep the composition of the Board under review and make
recommendations to the Board.
Remuneration Committee
Details of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the
Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 28.
Administration and Finance Committee
The Committee comprises any two directors (of whom one
must be the Chairman, the Chief Executive or the Finance
Director). It may appoint its own chairman and it meets as
occasion demands. It is empowered by the Board:
to administer the Company’s share schemes in accordance
with the Board’s policy (and specific decisions of the
Remuneration Committee, so far as participation by
directors and senior employees are concerned);
to borrow money (by entering into new or replacement
facilities) needed by the business, to enter into finance
leases, and operate existing banking facilities (within the limit
set by the Group’s borrowing facilities immediately before
taking action and subject to a transaction limit of £10m);
to enter into guarantees or indemnities where they are a
necessary incidental of the exercise of the powers set out
above.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness annually. The Board
performed such a review during 2009. Such a system is
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to
achieve the Group’s strategic objectives and can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing
the Group’s significant risks has been established. These
procedures have been in place throughout 2009 and up to the
date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial
Statements. The effectiveness of the process is reviewed
twice yearly by the Board in accordance with the guidance,
‘Internal control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined
Code’. The executive directors have input into the Group’s risk
review process and are involved in updating the Group’s Risk
Register. The Group’s internal risk function also has a direct
link to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The principal elements of the Group’s system of internal
control are:
Control environment
The Board sets the overall policy for the Group which
includes a well-defined organisational structure with clear
operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated
authority. Control procedures exist to identify and control
business risks, safeguard the Group’s assets and to ensure
that financial transactions are properly recorded.
Assessment of business risk
A system of risk assessment and evaluation of controls
is embedded within the management process. Risk
assessment and evaluation take place within each
operating unit whereby management completes a
structured review of risks to business objectives, which are
evaluated in terms of their individual significance and set
out in the Risk Register. Strategic risks and opportunities
arising from changes in the Group’s business environment
are regularly reviewed by the Board. Appropriate control
procedures are identified for each key risk, and
responsibility for control is allocated to appropriate
managers.
Monitoring process
The control procedures are regularly reviewed by executive
management. The Board, in addition to its review of internal
financial controls, reviews the Risk Register twice yearly.
The Board also reviews other reports setting out the main
performance and risk indicators and considers possible
control issues apparent from these and other early warning
mechanisms which are embedded within the operations.
Representations that control procedures have been operating
effectively throughout the year are received from each
business unit.
The agenda for Board meetings includes twice each year an
item for consideration of business risks and controls and the
Board receives regular reports which discuss how effectively
control procedures are operating. The Board uses these
reports as a basis to assess risks material to the achievement
of the Group’s strategic objectives.
Internal financial control
In addition to the general internal controls discussed above
the directors of the Company acknowledge their responsibility
for the Group’s system of internal financial control. The key
features of the internal financial control system that operated
throughout the period covered by the Financial Statements
are: Operating controls
The purposes of the key financial and operating control
procedures in place throughout the Group are:
the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised use or
disposition; and
the maintenance of proper accounting records and
reliable financial information for use within the business
or for publication.
Financial reporting and information systems
There is a comprehensive budgeting and strategic review
system with an annual budget and revised forecasts for the
year, which are continuously updated and compared to
actual results on a regular basis.
Functional reporting
The Board has identified specific areas and transactions
which require full Board approval. These include matters
such as acquisitions and disposals and the establishment
of banking facilities.
Investment appraisal
The Group has clearly defined guidelines for capital
expenditure. These include detailed appraisal and review
procedures, levels of authority and due diligence
requirements.
Internal audit
There is a rolling programme of internal audit reviews of
operating divisions which are documented and reported.
The Group also has a self-assessment package, which
facilitates the measurement and appraisal of the principal
financial controls across the Group.
In the Board’s view no significant failings or weaknesses in the
system of internal control were identified during the year.
Relations with shareholders
There is a programme of regular meetings with major
shareholders to consider the Group’s performance, strategy
and governance. Also, presentations are made twice yearly
after the results announcements.
In addition to the results presentations and the Annual General
Meeting, the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director
met during 2009 with a number of major investors.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders
if they have concerns which contact through the Chairman,
Chief Executive and Finance Director has failed to resolve or
for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Board receives weekly and monthly market reports from
the Company’s brokers.
The Board also welcomes the attendance of, and questions
from, shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. Share-
holders are invited by the Chairman to ask questions before he
puts each item of business to the vote. Separate resolutions
are proposed and the number of proxy votes cast for and
against each resolution are announced to the meeting
following voting by a show of hands. A poll is called on any
resolution where it is appropriate or required.
Compliance with the 2008 Combined Code
The directors consider that the Company has, during the year
ended 31 December 2009, complied with all the requirements
of the 2008 Combined Code.
Approved by the Board on 25 February 2010 and signed on
its behalf by
Sarah Morton
Secretary
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
27 Directors’ Remuneration Report
This report has been prepared in accordance with the
requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority, the Companies Act 2006 and regulations made
under that Act. Those regulations require the Company’s
auditors to report on the audited information which is
presented in Part 2 of this report and to state whether that part
of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with
the regulations.
Part 1 – Unaudited Information
The Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’)
During 2009, the Committee comprised:
M G Firth Chairman
PCFHickson
N G Howes
R W Jennings
The Committee met on three occasions and attendances are
given in the table on page 24.
Advice to the Committee
During the year the Committee’s principal advisers were Pinsent
Masons who were chosen and appointed by the Committee.
They also advised the Trustees of the Communisis Pension Plan
and provided a limited amount of commercial advice to the
Group. Pinsent Masons advised the Committee on market
practice, incentive plans, rewards in the chosen comparator
group of companies and other remuneration-related topics.
At the Committee’s request administrative advice and support
was provided by the Company Secretary, the Company’s HR
Director and the Company’s Tax Manager. The Chief Executive
is invited to attend meetings of the Committee except when his
own remuneration is being discussed.
The Committee’s responsibilities
The Committee’s principal responsibilities are to recommend
to the Board the remuneration strategy and framework for the
executive directors and senior managers and to determine,
within that framework, the individual remuneration packages
for the executive directors and senior managers. The terms of
reference for the Committee are available on the Group’s
website at www.communisis.com.
Remuneration policy
The policy of the Board is to:
attract, develop, motivate and retain talented people at all
levels across the Group; and
provide competitive salary and benefit packages.
The policy for executive remuneration for 2010 and thereafter
is to:
pay a basic salary which is competitive with other
companies of similar size and complexity;
link reward to Group performance and sustainable
shareholder value by providing both annual and longer term
bonus opportunities, the latter taking the form of
performance linked share awards; and
incentivise executives by ensuring that variable pay (in the
form of annual bonus) is at least 30% of basic salary at on
target performance and a significantly higher proportion for
wholly exceptional performance.
When setting performance targets for the annual bonus at the
start of each year the Committee takes into account the
outcome of the business planning process, the annual budget
and the likely effect of the general economic climate on the
Group’s prospects. For 2010, as for 2009, targets have been
set for each of earnings before interest and tax (‘EBIT’) and
working capital.
All share awards are subject to performance conditions which,
for awards before 2010, have been the relative total
shareholder return conditions described later in this report.
In 2010 the Committee intends to grant new share awards
with the performance conditions that are also described later
in this report.
The remuneration package
For 2010 (as for 2009) the remuneration package for executive
directors (and key senior employees) comprises basic salary;
a car or allowance in lieu; life assurance; medical insurance (for
the individual and his family, if required); an annual
performance bonus; the ability to participate in the Company’s
pension scheme; performance linked option awards under the
Company’s option schemes (currently only the Executive Share
Option Scheme and the Long Term Incentive Plan); and the
ability to participate in the Company’s all-employee Sharesave
Scheme on the same terms as other UK employees participate.
The following paragraphs provide details of each component.
Basic salary and benefits
Whilst it continues to be the Committee’s policy to review
basic salaries each year taking account of Group and
individual performance, no review was undertaken in 2009
because of the state of the economy and its effect on trading.
The salaries payable to the executive directors appointed
during the year were determined by the Committee with
advice from the HR Director on current market rates.
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
28 Life assurance cover for Messrs Blundell, King and Rushton is
a facet of their membership of the Company’s defined
contribution pension scheme (see below), but was provided
for Mr Vaughan until his resignation and is provided for Messrs
Blaxill and Wells under separate life assurance policies which
are linked to the Group policy.
The following table shows the annual rates of basic pay for
each executive director effective at the date of this report:
Annual performance bonus
The annual bonus is paid in cash immediately after the
audited results for the year are published. At the start of 2009
the Committee decided that a bonus of between 20% and two
thirds of basic pay would be capable of being earned for
meeting EBIT targets drawn from the annual budget.
In addition, bonus of between 13% and one third of basic pay
would be available for a reduction in working capital. The net
effect was a bonus opportunity ranging from 33% to 100% of
basic pay.
The outturn for the year was that, although the EBIT target
was missed, the working capital target was achieved.
The Committee considered carefully whether any bonus at all
should be paid, given the overall financial performance of the
Group but concluded that a 25% proportion of the working
capital component of the bonus should be paid to the
executive directors in recognition of the achievement of this
target, which meant an actual bonus of 8.17% of basic pay.
The Directors’ Remuneration table in Part 2 shows the part of
the bonus earned by the directors appointed during the year
which is attributable to their period of service as directors
during 2009. Prior to appointment to the Board, each of them
had a bonus opportunity with the same targets and potential
percentage earnings as those applicable to the other directors.
For 2010 the Committee has used the same method to set
targets but has given EBIT slightly greater significance at the
low end of the scale and chosen numeric values reflecting its
judgment on the factors referred to above. A bonus of
between 10% and 60% of basic pay will be capable of being
earned for meeting EBIT targets, and a bonus of between 10%
and 40% of basic pay will be available for a reduction in
working capital. The net effect is a bonus opportunity ranging
from 20% to 100% of basic pay. The achievement against the
targets will be reported next year.
Pension benefits
The Company’s only operative pension scheme is its defined
contributions scheme (the ‘DC Scheme’), the defined benefits
(‘DB’) scheme having been closed to future accruals for
existing members on 30 November 2007.
Mr Rushton has a DB pension entitlement in respect of
services up to 30 November 2007. Further details are provided
on page 34.
Until 2004 Mr Wells was a contributing member of the DB
scheme. In 2006 Mr Wells, in conjunction with a change in
HMRC rules, opted to draw early retirement benefits from the
DB scheme. Further details are provided on page 34.
Details of the individual directors’ pension arrangements,
during 2009 and for 2010, are shown below:
Current Basic Salary (£)
A M Blundell 225,000
P R King 206,000
A J C Blaxill 187,000
D Rushton 187,000
J A Wells 187,700
Director Membership of DC Scheme and Company contribution for Normal
Percentage Company contribution directors not in DC Scheme retirement age
S W Vaughan (resigned 31/10/09) No nil 60
A M Blundell Yes 6% nil 65
P R King Yes 6% nil 60
A J C Blaxill No 15% of basic pay 65
D Rushton Yes 9%* nil 65
J A Wells No 15% of basic pay 60
*Note: higher contribution level is due to prior membership of the DB scheme.
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
29 Share schemes
The Company has four share schemes, namely:
The Sharesave Scheme
This is an all-employee scheme approved by HM Revenue
& Customs (‘HMRC’). It takes the usual form for such
schemes and is described under the relevant heading in
Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As
reported in the table in Part 2, one director took up the
opportunity to apply for options under the scheme which
the Board offered to all employees in September 2009.
The Communisis Matched Award Plan
There are no extant awards to directors under this scheme
and the Committee has no intention of making any further
awards. The scheme was aimed at encouraging selected
senior employees of the Company to invest up to 50% (or
any other percentage determined by the Committee) of any
payment under any performance-related incentive plan in
the Company’s shares by offering a one-for-one matching
award under the scheme with the right to the shares
vesting after three years and proportionately to the
proportion of his original purchase still held by the
beneficiary at vesting.
The Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 (‘ESOS 2000’)
This scheme is open at the Board’s discretion to executive
directors and senior managers and all awards are made
subject to performance conditions. The scheme and the
performance conditions (one applicable to pre-2006
awards and the other to post 2006 awards) are also fully
described under the relevant heading in Note 14 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
No awards have been made under the scheme since 2008
and the extant awards to directors are shown in the Share
Options table on page 35.
The current scheme expires in June 2010 and the
establishment of a replacement Executive Share Option
Scheme (‘ESOS’) will be proposed at the Annual General
Meeting. The rules of the new scheme are broadly
equivalent to those of the ESOS 2000. Its principal features
are summarised in the Explanation of Resolutions
accompanying the Notice of Annual General Meeting. If the
proposed new scheme is approved by shareholders, the
Committee’s intention at present is only to use the HMRC
approved part of this new scheme in flexible combination
with the LTIP . The Committee considers that, having
determined the appropriate size of any LTIP award, by
choosing the appropriate combination of awards under the
two schemes it will be better able to deliver the desired
benefits to individuals in the most tax efficient manner within
HMRC’s £30,000 individual limit for approved share options.
The Committee’s intention is that if the new ESOS is
approved by shareholders, the performance conditions
under both schemes will be the same where awards are
made under the new ESOS and LTIP on the same occasion.
The Communisis Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 (‘the
LTIP’)
Since inception, the LTIP has been the main share incentive
plan for executive directors and key employees. However,
as explained above, it is the Committee’s intention that its
future use may be in combination with the proposed
replacement for the ESOS 2000.
The performance conditions for LTIP awards made between
2007 and 2009 have historically been divided into two parts.
Part 1 provided for 15% of the full award to vest if the
Company’s total shareholder return (‘TSR’) is at the median
for companies (excluding any in the FTSE100) in the support
services sector of the FTSE All Share Index rising on a
straight-line basis to 50% of the award vesting if Company
TSR is in the top decile of the comparators. Part 2 provided
for 15% to vest if Company TSR is at the median for
companies (excluding investment trusts) in the FTSE Small
Cap Index rising on a straight-line basis to 50% for
performance in the top decile. In each case, no awards vest
if performance is below the median; and options, once
vested, remain exercisable for two years only. The scheme
and the performance conditions are also fully described
under the relevant heading in Note 14 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
Review of LTIP operation: Proposed 2010 awards
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the operation of
the LTIP and reached the following principal conclusions:
the LTIP should be used to provide an appropriate and
direct incentive to the new management team in the
Company;
the key focus for the new management team should be to
undertake those steps necessary to drive turnaround in the
Company and the delivery of shareholder value through a
sustained recovery in the Company’s share price; and
the new management team should be rewarded for
achieving such a sustained recovery in share price.
In order to implement these conclusions, the Committee has
determined that for 2010’s LTIP awards, the Company will
replace the relative TSR performance measures described
above with a performance condition based on demanding
absolute share price growth targets, the main details of which
are as follows:
The performance measurement period will be a period of
three years from the date of an award and the attainment
of a share price threshold in that period will produce vesting
of a proportion of the award shares in accordance with the
table on page 31.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
30 To achieve a share price threshold, the Company’s three
monthly average share price must be above the specified
threshold. This three monthly average test will be applied to
ensure that only sustained recovery is rewarded.
No vested shares will be released before the third
anniversary of the award date. In addition no vested shares
will be released for at least two years after a threshold has
been achieved, so that attainment of a threshold in, say,
the third year of the performance period would lead to
delivery of any relevant vested shares only after a further
two year period.
In addition, and as an underpin, no shares will vest unless
the Remuneration Committee is satisfied as to the
Company’s underlying financial performance in financial
years 2010, 2011 and 2012.
The Remuneration Committee believes that these proposed
performance conditions are appropriate for 2010’s LTIP awards
and are in the best interests of the Company for the following
reasons:
The performance conditions will incentivise the new
management team to deliver a turnaround in share price
performance and thus will directly align the interests of
participants with shareholders’ interests.
The Company’s share price has declined and this would
give the Company a lower base point for the purposes of
any relative TSR performance condition. Accordingly the
Remuneration Committee had concerns that the previously
applied relative TSR measures could be achieved in the
next three years without delivering meaningful absolute
returns to shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee also notes the following points
about the proposed 2010 awards:
All proposed awards will be comfortably within the
individual annual award limit permitted under the LTIP
(150% of base salary per annum). In terms of salary
multiples, the proposed award to the CEO will be over
shares worth approximately 93% of base salary, and for
other executive directors awards will be over shares worth
approximately 55% of base salary.
Although these award levels are relatively modest in value
terms, they will involve the Company committing a larger than
normal number of shares to these awards to the executive
directors (around 3.25% of issued share capital
approximately). Accordingly, and in order to manage the
Company’s remaining share plans dilution capacity, the
Remuneration Committee’s intention is that no additional LTIP
awards or share options should be granted to participants in
the 2010 LTIP awards for the next one to two years.
Certain executive directors will be asked to voluntarily give
up older awards for no consideration to ensure that the
proposed 2010 awards can be made within existing dilution
limit authorities.
The Remuneration Committee’s view is that the proposed
levels for 2010 awards are appropriate and will act as a
meaningful incentive for the new management team to
deliver the turnaround in share price performance which is
in the interests of all shareholders.
Provision of shares for share plans — dilution
The current estimated dilution from subsisting awards,
including executive and all-employee share awards and
assuming, which is most unlikely, that all subsisting
options vest in full, is less than 2.7% of the shares in
issue at the date of this report. All equity-based plans are
funded through the issue of new shares. As disclosed in
Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements the
Company has an Employee Benefit Trust but the majority of
shares which it holds are at present committed to satisfy
options granted to the Chairman. Awards are managed to
confine commitments within an overall dilution limit for all
employee share plans of no more than 10% of share capital in
any ten-year period and a limit of 5% of share capital in any
ten-year period for the Company’s discretionary share plans.
Service agreements
The Committee’s policy is that each executive director’s
service agreement should be of indefinite duration subject to
termination upon the attainment of normal retirement age
(disclosed above) and should otherwise be terminable by
the Company on no more than twelve months’ notice and by
the director on six months’ notice. The service agreements of
all executive directors except for that of Mr Wells comply with
that policy. Prior to his appointment to the Board, Mr Wells’
service agreement was terminable by the Company on two
years’ notice. This will reduce by one month for each elapsed
month in 2010 with the result that it will be twelve months with
effect from 1 January 2011. None of the service agreements
includes provision for the payment of compensation upon
early termination. Whether any such compensation would be
payable and its amount would fall to be determined according
to the law of contract as it applies to the particular
circumstances of an individual case.
Share Price Thresholds* % of Award Vesting
30p 10%
50p 30%
70p 60%
90p 100%
*Attainment between the specified thresholds can deliver vesting
on a straight-line basis
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
31 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
The date of each executive director’s contract is:
Contract Date
A M Blundell 2 November 2009
P R King 15 June 2006
A J C Blaxill 12 February 2007
D Rushton 1 May 2004
J A Wells 1 September 1987
External appointments
None of the executive directors is a director of any company
apart from subsidiaries of the Company.
Non-executive directors
The fees payable to the non-executive directors are
determined by the Board based on salary information available
in the market. However, at the start of 2009 the Board decided
that there should be no increases in fees during 2009 and,
later in the year, in view of the economic climate and its effects
on trading, in respect of the period from 1 July 2009 until
30 June 2010 each of the non-executive directors offered to
waive his entitlement to fees to the following extent:
the Chairman – waived a total of £10,000 in equal monthly
amounts; and
each of Messrs Firth, Howes and Jennings – waived a total
of £5,000 in equal monthly amounts.
Before the effect of the waiver, the basic fee payable to each
non-executive director (other than the Chairman of the Board)
is £35,000 per annum with a further £5,000 payable to the
Chairman of each of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Mr Firth is paid a further £5,000 for his role as Senior
Independent Director. The Chairman’s fee (before the waiver)
is set at £75,000 per annum, inclusive of his responsibilities
as Chairman of the Nominations Committee. His fee is
normally subject to annual review by the Board.
Medical insurance has been provided for Mr Hickson and his
spouse since 1 December 2009.
In accordance with arrangements for the recruitment of
Mr Hickson which were intended to demonstrate his
significant personal commitment to the Company and his
determination to align his interests with those of shareholders,
on 19 December 2007, shortly after his appointment,
Mr Hickson was made a conditional award of options over
250,000 shares in the Company at an exercise price of nil per
share. The conditions are as follows:
Mr Hickson must acquire at his own expense (which he did
on 18 December 2007) and retain a holding of 250,000
shares in the Company (‘the Matching Shares’). The
number of options to which Mr Hickson is entitled reduces
proportionately to any reduction in the Matching Shares
prior to the vesting date of the options;
the options will not normally vest until the third anniversary
of the date of grant and exercise may normally only take
place in the two years following the date of vesting; and
if Mr Hickson ceases to be an officer or employee of the
Group or in the event of a take-over, in either case before
the vesting date of the options, vesting will be pro rata
according to time.
Term of office
Each non-executive director is engaged for an initial and
subsequent periods each of three years terminable by either
party on six months’ notice, in the case of the Chairman, and
at any time at the discretion of either party in the case of the
other non-executive directors. The services of Mr Jennings are
provided pursuant to an agreement between the Company
and Argen UK Limited. The other non-executive directors have
individual letters of engagement.
Other than as outlined above in respect of Mr Hickson,
the non-executive directors cannot participate in the
Company’s share option schemes, are not entitled to any
pension benefit and are not entitled to any payment in
compensation for early termination of their appointment.
The date of original appointment of each non-executive
director and the date of his latest letter of appointment is:
Date of Original Latest
Appointment Appointment Date
M G Firth 2 December 2002 21 October 2008
P C F Hickson 10 December 2007 10 December 2007
N G Howes 10 December 2007 10 December 2007
R W Jennings 20 June 2002 1 April 2008
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
32 Total Shareholder Return
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
Rebased to 100
Source Thomson Datastream
Communisis FTSE All Share Index
Comparative Total Shareholder Return
The graph below shows Communisis’ Total Shareholder Return performance compared with the FTSE
All Share Index over the past five years. The graph provides a basis for comparison with a relevant equity
index, of which Communisis is a constituent, and the directors believe that no other published index provides
a better comparison.
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
33 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2009
Part 2 – Audited Information
Salary/ Salary Other 2009 2008
fees supplements Bonuses benefits Total Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive directors
S W Vaughan (resigned 31 October 2009) 341 – – 13 354 682
P R King 208 – 17 11 236 376
A J C Blaxill 183 28 15 16 242 227
A M Blundell (appointed 25 August 2009) 72 – 4 9 85 –
D Rushton (appointed 25 August 2009) 59 – 4 7 70 –
J A Wells (appointed 31 October 2009) 30 4 2 4 40 –
Non-executive directors
P C F Hickson 70 – – – 70 75
M G Firth 42 – – – 42 45
NGHowes 38 – – – 38 40
R W Jennings 33 – – – 33 37
1,076 32 42 60 1,210 1,482
Notes
1. J A Wells is also in receipt of an annual pension of £70,819 which was accrued through membership of the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme.
2. The figures quoted above for non-executive directors’ fees take account of the agreed fee waiver (see page 32).
3. Other benefits for A J C Blaxill includes an amount equal to the National Insurance saved by the Group due to Mr Blaxill’s salary sacrifice of
£30,000 per annum.
Directors’ pension entitlement
D Rushton was a member of the Group’s defined contribution plan during the year ended 31 December 2009 but also has a
defined benefit pension entitlement in respect of pensionable services pre 1 December 2007 (the defined benefit section was
closed to future accruals with effect from 30 November 2007). The value of Mr Rushton’s accrued defined benefit pension
entitlement is £7,690 per annum. There was no change in the value of his accrued pension entitlement between the date he was
appointed to the Board and the year-end.
At 31 December 2009 At 31 December 2008 (Note 1)
Ordinary Share Ordinary Share
Shares Options Shares Options
A J C Blaxill 59,615 468,062 59,615 468,062
A M Blundell 55,000 200,000 5,000 80,000
M G Firth 115,954 – 115,954 –
P C F Hickson 650,000 250,000 450,000 250,000
N G Howes –– ––
R W Jennings 30,000 – 30,000 –
P R King 23,177 420,270 23,177 414,105
D Rushton – 270,000 – 220,000
S W Vaughan 98,805 1,980,224 98,805 1,980,224
JAWells 91,236 601,789 66,236 601,789
Notes
1. The comparative figures are for 31 December 2008 or at date of appointment if later.
2. The directors and their families had no interest in the shares of any other company within the Group.
3. Current directors’ shareholdings had not changed between the year-end and the close of business on 24 February 2010.
4. Mr Vaughan’s holding in 2009 is shown as at his date of resignation from the Board.
Directors’ Interests
The interests (all being beneficial) of the directors in the Company’s securities are set out below:
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
34 Share options
The number of, and prices at which, options under the Executive Share Options Scheme 2000 and Long Term Incentive Plan 2007
have been granted to directors are set out below.
Except for Sharesave options, all options are subject to the performance conditions described on page 30. The options granted
to the Chairman are also detailed below.
Options Options
held at held at
1 Jan 31 Dec Earliest Latest
2009 Options Options 2009 Option exercise exercise
(Note 1) lapsed granted (Note 2) price (p) date date
Executive scheme
S W Vaughan 821,917 – – 821,917 73.00 15/12/2009 15/12/2016
417,567 – – 417,567 74.00 02/10/2010 02/10/2017
740,740 – – 740,740 47.25 01/10/2011 01/10/2018
P R King 43,835 43,835 – – 91.25 n/a n/a
A J C Blaxill 248,062 – – 248,062 64.50 22/03/2010 22/03/2017
J A Wells 280,702 – – 280,702 156.25 07/06/2003 07/06/2010
94,787 – – 94,787 105.50 06/10/2006 06/10/2013
Long Term Incentive Plan
P R King 270,270 – – 270,270 Nil 02/10/2010 02/10/2012
100,000 – – 100,000 Nil 01/10/2011 01/10/2013
– – 50,000 50,000 Nil 06/10/2012 06/10/2014
A J C Blaxill 120,000 – – 120,000 Nil 02/10/2010 02/10/2012
100,000 – – 100,000 Nil 01/10/2011 01/10/2013
A M Blundell 80,000 – – 80,000 Nil 25/06/2011 25/06/2013
– – 120,000 120,000 Nil 15/09/2012 15/09/2014
D Rushton 120,000 – – 120,000 Nil 13/09/2010 13/09/2012
100,000 – – 100,000 Nil 01/10/2011 01/10/2013
– – 50,000 50,000 Nil 15/09/2012 15/09/2014
J A Wells 40,000 – – 40,000 Nil 13/09/2010 13/09/2012
100,000 – – 100,000 Nil 01/10/2011 01/10/2013
– – 50,000 50,000 Nil 06/10/2012 06/10/2014
Chairman’s options
P C F Hickson 250,000 – – 250,000 Nil 20/12/2010 20/12/2012
Sharesave Scheme
J A Wells 36,300 – – 36,300 25.00 01/12/2012 01/06/2013
15,750 15,750 – – 60.00 n/a n/a
Notes
1. Options held at 1 January 2009 or date of appointment if later.
2. Options held at 31 December 2009 or date of resignation if earlier.
3. No options were exercised by directors during the year and consequently the amount of gains made on exercise was £nil (2008 £nil).
4. S W Vaughan held 1,980,224 options at the date of his resignation from the Board. These options have lapsed.
5. The range of market price of shares in Communisis plc during the year ended 31 December 2009 was 12.75p to 55.00p. The closing price on
31 December 2009 was 13.00p.
6. None of the directors paid for the award of options.
7. The market price of the shares on the dates when options were granted under the LTIP were as follows: 15 September 2009 19.75p, and 6 October
2009 19.75p.
Of the above information on pages 28 to 35 the following have been audited: directors’ remuneration, directors’ pension entitlements and share options.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 25 February 2010 and signed on its behalf by order of the Board.
Sarah Morton
Secretary
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
35 Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2009
2009 2008
Note £000 £000
Revenue 4 190,188 257,730
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress (292) 106
Raw materials and consumables used (96,109) (138,645)
Employee benefits expense 5.3 (54,617) (65,316)
Other operating expenses (25,003) (32,464)
Depreciation and amortisation expense (6,960) (6,435)
Gains arising on disposal of Bath business 5.4 – 1,380
Adjustment to deferred consideration for disposal of Bath business 5.4 (650) –
Exceptional property provisions 5.4 (2,000) (1,969)
Profit from operations 4,557 14,387
Analysed as:
Profit from operations before exceptional items 7,207 14,976
Gains arising on disposal of Bath business 5.4 – 1,380
Adjustment to deferred consideration for disposal of Bath business 5.4 (650) -
Exceptional property provisions 5.4 (2,000) (1,969)
Profit from operations 4,557 14,387
Finance revenue 4 499 731
Finance costs 5.1 (2,459) (2,392)
(1,960) (1,661)
Profit before taxation 2,597 12,726
Income tax credit/(expense) 6 562 (4,095)
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 3,159 8,631
Earnings per share 9
On profit for the year attributable to equity holders and from continuing operations
– basic 2.28p 6.24p
– diluted 2.25p 6.15p
Dividend per share 10
– paid 2.495p 2.495p
– proposed 0.430p 1.635p
Dividends paid and proposed during the year were £3.5 million and £0.6 million respectively (2008 £3.5 million and £2.3 million respectively).
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
All income and expenses relate to continuing operations.
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
36 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 December 2009
2009 2008
£000 £000
Profit for the year 3,159 8,631
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (9) (67)
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension plans (8,889) 1,240
Income tax thereon 2,489 (347)
Loss on cash flow hedges taken directly to equity (37) (239)
Income tax thereon 10 67
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year, net of tax (6,436) 654
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year, net of tax (3,277) 9,285
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (3,277) 9,285
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
37 Consolidated Balance Sheet
31 December 2009
2009 2008
Note £000 £000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 24,236 23,752
Intangible assets 12 158,160 157,170
Trade and other receivables 17 450 4,965
Deferred tax assets 6 2,442 –
185,288 185,887
Current assets
Inventories 16 6,431 7,248
Trade and other receivables 17 27,249 28,234
Cash and cash equivalents 19 19,178 17,940
52,858 53,422
TOTAL ASSETS 238,146 239,309
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent
Equity share capital 20 34,651 34,651
Share premium 22 22
Merger reserve 20 11,427 11,427
Capital redemption reserve 20 1,375 1,375
ESOP reserve 20 (338) (338)
Cumulative translation adjustment 20 (152) (143)
Retained earnings 81,283 87,773
Total equity 128,268 134,767
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 21 37,236 6,000
Retirement benefit obligations 15 17,518 11,100
Deferred tax liability 6 – 353
Provisions 22 1,807 1,323
Financial liabilities 24 45 81
56,606 18,857
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 21 359 25,000
Trade and other payables 23 50,012 53,650
Income tax payable 2,029 4,213
Provisions 22 641 2,664
Financial liabilities 24 231 158
53,272 85,685
Total liabilities 109,878 104,542
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 238,146 239,309
The Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 36 to 77 were approved by the Board on 25 February 2010 and signed on its behalf by:
A M Blundell
P R King
Directors
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
38 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2009
2009 2008
Note £000 £000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 32 4,882 23,385
Interest paid (2,167) (2,764)
Interest received 331 358
Income tax paid (1,918) (1,423)
Net cash flows from operating activities 1,128 19,556
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings including overdraft acquired 7 (600) (4,459)
Receipt of consideration from sale of Bath business 8 3,500 8,200
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (2,782) (5,444)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 38 705
Purchase of intangible assets (1,356) (2,111)
Net cash flows from investing activities (1,200) (3,109)
Cash flows from financing activities
Receipt from sharesave options exercised – 30
New borrowings 39,000 800
Repayment of borrowings (34,000) (4,300)
Dividends paid (3,452) (3,450)
Net cash flows from financing activities 1,548 (6,920)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,476 9,527
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 17,940 8,221
Exchange rate effects (238) 192
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 19,178 17,940
Cash and cash equivalents consist of:
Cash and cash equivalents 19 19,178 17,940
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
39 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Capital Cumulative
Issued Share Merger ESOP redemption translation Retained Total
capital premium reserve reserve reserve adjustment earnings equity
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
As at 1 January 2009 34,651 22 11,427 (338) 1,375 (143) 87,773 134,767
Profit for the year – – – – – – 3,159 3,159
Other comprehensive loss – – – – – (9) (6,427) (6,436)
Total comprehensive loss – – – – – (9) (3,268) (3,277)
Employee share option schemes:
– value of services provided – – – – – – 230 230
Dividends paid – – – – – – (3,452) (3,452)
As at 31 December 2009 34,651 22 11,427 (338) 1,375 (152) 81,283 128,268
Capital Cumulative
Issued Share Merger ESOP redemption translation Retained Total
capital premium reserve reserve reserve adjustment earnings equity
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
As at 1 January 2008 34,636 4 11,427 (338) 1,375 (76) 81,470 128,498
Profit for the year – – – – – – 8,631 8,631
Other comprehensive income – – – – – (67) 721 654
Total comprehensive income – – – – – (67) 9,352 9,285
Employee share option schemes:
– value of services provided – – – – – – 404 404
Dividends paid – – – – – – (3,450) (3,450)
Shares issued 15 18 – – – – (3) 30
As at 31 December 2008 34,651 22 11,427 (338) 1,375 (143) 87,773 134,767
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
40 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2009
1 Authorisation of Financial Statements
The Consolidated Financial Statements of Communisis plc
(‘the Group’) for the year ended 31 December 2009 were
authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors
on 25 February 2010. Communisis plc is a public limited company
incorporated anddomiciledinEnglandwhosesharesaretradedon
the London Stock Exchange.
2 Accounting policies
2.1 Basis of preparation
The Consolidated Financial Statements of Communisis plc are for
the year ended 31 December 2009. They have been prepared in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
as adopted by the European Union.
TheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsarepresentedinsterlingand
allvaluesareroundedtothenearestthousandBritishpounds(£000)
except where otherwise indicated.
2.2 Basis of consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the Financial
Statements of Communisis plc and its subsidiaries as at 31
December each year. The results of subsidiaries prepared for the
same reporting year as the parent company are included in these
Consolidated Financial Statements, using consistent accounting
policies. All intra-group balances and transactions, including
unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been
eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are fullyconsolidatedfrom thedateon whichcontrol is
transferredtotheGroupandceasetobeconsolidatedfromthedate
on which control is transferred out of the Group. Where there is a
change of control of a subsidiary, the Consolidated Financial
Statements include the results for the part of the reporting year
during which Communisis plc has control.
2.3 Significant accounting judgements and estimates
Estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources
of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date that have a
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are
discussed below.
Impairment of Goodwill
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an
annual basis. This requires an estimation of the value in use of the
cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. Estimating
the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the
expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit and also
to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present
value of those cash flows. The carrying amount of goodwill at 31
December 2009 was £150,650,000 (2008 £149,068,000).
Additional information is included in Note 13.
Business combinations
Upon acquisition of another entity the Group evaluates intangibles
arising using methodologies recognised under IFRS 3 Business
Combinations. Judgment is required as to which intangibles meet
the recognition criteria of separable or contractual, and estimates
involving cash flow forecasts are performed to quantify the value of
these assets arising. Intangibles arising are assessed for indicators
ofimpairmentannually.Informationonintangiblesarisinginbusiness
combinations is disclosed in Note 7.
Pensions
Theactuarialvaluationinvolvesmakingassumptionsaboutdiscount
rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases,
mortality rates and future pension increases. Due to the long-term
nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant
uncertainty. Additional information is included in Note 15.
Provisions
The measure of surplus property provisions requires estimation of a
suitablediscountrateandfuturecoststobeincurred(seeNote22).
This requires judgment in estimating the likely outcomes of
negotiations and timeframes for settlement.
2.4 Summary of significant accounting policies
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional
currency at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary
assetsandliabilitiesdenominatedinforeigncurrenciesareretranslated
attherateofexchangerulingatthebalancesheetdateandexchange
differences arising are recognised in the Income Statement.
Non-monetaryitemsthataremeasuredintermsofhistoricalcostin
a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the
date of the initial transaction. Non-monetary items measured at fair
value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates
at the date when the fair value was determined.
The functional currency of the overseas subsidiaries is the Euro.
Theassetsandliabilitiesoftheseoverseassubsidiariesaretranslated
intosterlingattherateofexchangerulingatthebalancesheetdate
andtheirIncomeStatementsaretranslatedattheweightedaverage
exchangeratesfortheyearwherethisisareasonableapproximation
to actual translation rates. The exchange differences arising on the
retranslation are taken directly to a separate component of equity
describedasthe‘cumulativetranslationadjustment’.Ondisposalof
a foreign entity, the cumulative amount recognised in equity relating
to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the Income
Statement.Thecumulativetranslationadjustmentreservewassetto
zero on 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and accumulated impairment in value. Land is not
depreciated.
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
41 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Depreciationiscalculatedonastraight-linebasisovertheestimated
useful life of the asset as follows:
Freehold property 25 to 50 years
Long leasehold property 25 to 50 years
Short leasehold property 10 to 20 years
Plant, equipment and motor vehicles 4 to 10 years
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed
for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate
the carrying value may not be recoverable. If any such indication
exists, and where the carrying values exceed the estimated
recoverableamount,theassetsarewrittendowntotheirrecoverable
amount. The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment
is the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In
assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that
reflectscurrentmarketassessmentsofthetimevalueofmoneyand
the risks specific to the asset. Useful economic lives, depreciation
methodsandresidualvaluesarereviewedannually.Foranassetthat
doesnotgeneratelargelyindependentcashinflows,therecoverable
amountisdeterminedforthecash-generatingunittowhichtheasset
belongs.ImpairmentlossesarerecognisedintheIncomeStatement.
Borrowings and borrowing costs
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction
costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised
cost;anydifferencebetweentheproceeds(netoftransactioncosts)
and the redemption value is recognised in the Income Statement
overtheperiodoftheborrowingsusingtheeffectiveinterestmethod.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has
an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least
twelve months after the balance sheet date.
Borrowingcostsdirectlyattributabletotheacquisition,construction
orproductionofanassetthatnecessarilytakesasubstantialperiod
of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as
part of the cost of the respective assets. All other borrowing costs
are expensed in the period they occur. Borrowing costs consist of
interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the
borrowing of funds. The Group capitalises borrowing costs for all
eligible assets where construction was commenced on or after 1
January 2009.
Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisitions is initially measured at cost being the
excess of the cost of the business combination, including directly
attributable transaction costs, over the acquirer’s interest in the net
fairvalueoftheidentifiableassets,liabilitiesandcontingentliabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any
accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is not amortised. Any
unamortised goodwill on 1 January 2004, the date of transition to
IFRS, was frozen from that date.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if
events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying value
may be impaired. Goodwill is allocated to the related cash-
generating units monitored by management for the purpose of
impairment testing.
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit (or
groupofcash-generatingunits)andanoperationwithinthatunit(or
group of units) is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the
operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the
operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the
operation. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured
based on the relative values of the operations disposed of and the
portion of the cash-generating unit (or group of units) retained.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation
andaccumulatedimpairmentlosses.Intangibleassetscreatedwithin
the business are not capitalised and expenditure is charged to the
Income Statement in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
(a) Acquired from a business combination
Intangibles arising from a business combination are capitalised at
fair value as at the date of acquisition, where it can be measured
reliably.Followinginitialrecognition,thecostmodelisappliedtothe
classofintangibleassets.Theusefullivesoftheseintangibleassets
areassessedtobeeitherfiniteorindefinite.Amortisationchargedon
assets with a finite life is recognised in amortisation expense in the
Income Statement over the expected life of the asset. Intangible
assets currently recognised are being amortised over between five
and ten years.
(b) Research and development costs
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Expenditure on a
development project, such as computer software, which is reliably
measurable, is capitalised when the technical feasibility and
commercialviabilityoftheprojectisdemonstrated.TheGroupmust
intend to and have available the resources to complete the project
and be satisfied that the intangible asset arising from the
development project will generate probable future economic
benefits.Capitalisationceaseswhentheproductisreadyforlaunch.
Followingtheinitialrecognitionofthedevelopmentexpenditure,the
cost model is applied requiring the asset to be carried at cost less
anyaccumulatedamortisationandaccumulatedimpairmentlosses.
Any expenditure carried forward is amortised over the period of
expected future sales from the related project, from the date the
asset is available for use.
The carrying value of development costs is reviewed when there is
an indicator of impairment. In addition it is reviewed annually when
the asset is not yet in use.
(c) Computer software costs
Acquired computer software and licences are capitalised. These
costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives (three to seven
years).
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
42 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Costsassociatedwithmaintainingcomputersoftwareprogramsare
recognised as an expense as incurred. Costs that are directly
associated with the production of identifiable and unique software
products controlled by the Group, and that will generate probable
economicbenefitsexceedingcostsbeyondoneyear,arerecognised
as intangible assets. Direct costs include the costs of software
development employees. These costs are amortised over their
estimated useful lives (three to seven years).
Usefullivesarealsoexaminedonanannualbasisandadjustments,
where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Raw materials are stated at purchase cost on a first-in, first-out
basis.Forfinishedgoodsandworkinprogress,costsincludedirectly
attributable material and labour costs and certain overhead costs
that contribute in bringing the inventories to their present location
and condition. Selling expenses and other administrative overhead
expenses are excluded.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary
course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the
estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Provision is made for items of stock that are damaged, obsolete or
slow moving.
Trade and other receivables
Tradeandotherreceivables,whichgenerallyhave30-90dayscredit
terms,arerecognisedandcarriedatoriginalinvoiceamountlessan
allowance for any uncollectable amounts. An estimate for doubtful
debts is made. Bad debts are written off when identified.
Trade and other receivables include contract prepayments made to
securethefive-yearcontractandthree-yearextensionwithBarclays
Bank PLC. The prepayment is being amortised on a straight line
basis over the life of the contract.
Impairment of assets
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any
indication that an asset may be impaired. Where an indicator of
impairmentexists,theGroupmakesaformalestimateofrecoverable
amount. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its
recoverable amount the asset is considered impaired and is written
down to its recoverable amount. Recoverable amount is the higher
of an asset’s, or cash-generating unit’s, fair value less costs to sell
anditsvalueinuseandisdeterminedforanindividualasset,unless
the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely
independentofthosefromotherassetsorgroupsofassets,inwhich
caseimpairmentisdeterminedatthecash-generatingunitlevel.The
carrying amounts of the cash-generating units to which goodwill is
allocatedandintangibleassetsnotyetavailableforusearereviewed
annually, or more frequently when there is an indication of
impairment.
Value in use is determined by the estimated future pre-tax cash
flows, discounted to their present values using a pre-tax discount
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of
money and the risk specific to the asset.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet comprise cash at
bank and in hand and short term deposits with an original maturity
of three months or less.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash
and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as
defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables, which generally have 30-90 days credit
terms, are recognised and carried at original invoice amount.
Contingent consideration
The amount of contingent consideration on business combinations
is determined by discounting the amounts payable to their present
value at the date of acquisition, taking into account any premium or
discountlikelytobeincurredinsettlement.Contingentconsideration
is determined by reference to the appropriate factors that influence
the possible payment of that consideration. Contingent
considerationis recognisedwherethepaymentisprobableandthe
amount can be reliably measured. Where the future event does not
occur or the amount of consideration may be different from the
originalestimate,thecostofthebusinesscombinationisadjustedto
reflect the actual outcome and the amount finally paid. For
acquisitions prior to 1 July 2009, any change in contingent
consideration, other than the effect of the unwinding discount, will
resultinachangetogoodwill.Foracquisitionsafter1July2009,this
change will be recognised in the Income Statement.
Financial instruments
FinancialassetsandfinancialliabilitiesarerecognisedintheGroup’s
Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual
provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets
The Group’s financial assets can all be classified as ‘loans and
receivables’.
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are
classified as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are
measuredatamortisedcost,lessanyimpairment.Interestincomeis
recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-
term receivables when the recognition of interest would be
immaterial.
Impairment of financial assets
TheGroupassessesateachbalancesheetdatewhetherafinancial
asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
43 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Assets carried at amortised cost
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on assets
carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss
is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount
andthepresentvalueofestimatedfuturecashflows(excludingfuture
creditlossesthathavenotbeenincurred)discountedatthefinancial
asset’s original effective interest rate (i.e. the effective interest rate
computed at initial recognition). The carrying amount of the asset is
reduced, through the use of an allowance account. The amount of
the loss is recognised in other operating expenses.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss
decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event
occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously
recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any subsequent reversal of
an impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement, to the
extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its
amortised cost at the reversal date.
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made
whenthereisobjectiveevidence(suchastheprobabilityofinsolvency
orsignificantfinancialdifficultiesofthedebtor)thattheGroupwillnot
be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of
theinvoice.Thecarryingamountofthereceivableisreducedthrough
useofanallowanceaccount.Impaireddebtsarederecognisedwhen
they are assessed as irrecoverable.
Derecognition of financial assets
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual
rights to the cash flows from the asset expire; or it transfers the
financialassetandsubstantiallyalltherisksandrewardsofownership
oftheassettoanotherentity.IftheGroupneithertransfersnorretains
substantiallyalltherisksandrewardsofownershipandcontinuesto
control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained
interestintheassettotheextentofitscontinuinginvolvementandan
associatedliabilityreflectingobligationsretained.IftheGroupretains
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred
financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset
and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds
received. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all
risks and rewards and does not control the transferred asset, then it
derecognises the asset.
Financial liabilities
The Group’s financial liabilities include borrowings and trade and
other payables, which are all classified as ‘other financial liabilities’.
Other financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of
transaction costs. Other financial liabilities are subsequently
measuredatamortisedcostusingtheeffectiveinterestmethod,with
interestexpenserecognisedonaneffectiveyieldbasis.Theeffective
interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a
financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant
period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts
estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the
financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when,
the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled, or they expire.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
Initial recognition and subsequent measurement
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward
currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its foreign
currencyandinterestraterisksrespectively.Suchderivativefinancial
instrumentsareinitiallyrecognisedatfairvalueonthedateonwhich
a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently
remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as financial assets
whenthefairvalueispositiveandasfinancialliabilitieswhenthefair
value is negative.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives
during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting and the
ineffective portion of an effective hedge, are taken directly to the
Income Statement.
Thefairvalueofforwardcurrencycontractsisthedifferencebetween
the forward exchange rate and the contract rate. The forward
exchange rate is referenced to current forward exchange rates for
contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the difference between the
fixed rate and the one month LIBOR rate implied at the balance
sheet date, calculated monthly, and discounted to present value.
Forthepurposeofhedgeaccounting,hedgesareclassifiedascash
flowhedgeswhenhedgingexposuretovariabilityincashflows,that
iseitherattributabletoaparticularriskassociatedwitharecognised
asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction, or when
hedging the foreign currency risk in an unrecognised firm
commitment.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally
designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the
Groupwishestoapplyhedgeaccountingandtheriskmanagement
objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge. The
documentationincludesidentificationofthehedginginstrument,the
hedgeditemortransaction,thenatureoftheriskbeinghedgedand
how the entity will assess the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in
offsettingtheexposuretochangesinthehedgeditem’sfairvalueor
cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. Such hedges are
expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or
cashflowsandareassessedonanongoingbasistodeterminethat
they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial
reporting periods for which they were designated.
Cash flow hedges
Theeffectiveportionofthegainorlossonthehedginginstrumentis
recognised in other comprehensive income, while any ineffective
portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the Income Statement
when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
44 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
the hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised or
when a forecast sale occurs. Where the hedged item is the cost of
a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the amounts taken to
other comprehensive income are transferred to the initial carrying
amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
Iftheforecasttransactionorfirmcommitmentisnolongerexpected
tooccur,amountspreviouslyrecognisedinequityaretransferredto
the Income Statement. If the hedging instrument expires or is sold,
terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its
designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised
in equity remain in other comprehensive income until the forecast
transaction or firm commitment occurs.
The Group uses forward exchange contracts as hedges of its
exposuretoforeigncurrencyriskinforecastedtransactionsandfirm
commitments.
The Group has two interest rate swaps in place that are used as
hedges for the exposure to changes in interest rates on two
£5,000,000 variable loans (see Note 24 for more details).
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation
(legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that
an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be
requiredtosettletheobligationandareliableestimatecanbemade
of the amount of the obligation. If the effect of the time value of
money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the
expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of money and, where
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is
used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is
recognised as a finance cost.
Pensions and similar obligations
Group companies operate defined contribution and defined benefit
pension plans.
Payments to defined contribution pension plans are charged as an
expense to the Income Statement as incurred when the related
employee service is rendered. The Group has no further legal or
constructive payment obligations once the contributions have
been made.
For defined benefit pension plans, the cost of providing benefits is
determined using the Projected Unit Method and the service cost
relatingtothebenefitearnedintheperiodisrecognisedinemployee
benefits expense in the Income Statement. An interest cost
representing the unwinding of the discount rate on the scheme’s
liabilities, net of the expected return on scheme assets, is charged
to the Income Statement. The liability recognised in the Balance
Sheetinrespectofdefinedbenefitpensionplansisthepresentvalue
of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the
fair value of the plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is
calculated annually by independent actuaries. The present value of
the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the
estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of AA rated
corporate bonds that have terms of maturity approximating to the
terms of the relevant pension liability.
All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the present
value of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan
assets are recognised immediately in the Consolidated Statement
of Comprehensive Income.
Share-based payment transactions
Certain directors and management are eligible to participate in share-
based payment schemes, all of which are equity settled.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured
by reference to their fair value at the date at which they are granted.
Thefairvalueisdeterminedbyanexternalvaluerusinganappropriate
model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of
anyvestingconditions,otherthanconditionslinkedtothepriceofthe
shares of Communisis plc (‘market conditions’).
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a
corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the
performance or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on
which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award
(‘vestingdate’).Thecumulativeexpenserecognisedforequity-settled
transactions at each reporting date reflects the extent to which the
vesting period has expired and the Group’s best estimate of the
number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest,
except for awards where vesting or non-vesting is conditional upon a
marketcondition,whicharetreatedasvestingirrespectiveofwhether
or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other
performance or service conditions are satisfied.
The Group has an employee share ownership plan (‘ESOP’) for the
granting of non-transferable options. Shares in the Group held by the
ESOP are accounted for in the same way as treasury shares and
presented in the Balance Sheet as a deduction from equity described
as the ‘ESOP reserve’.
The Group took advantage, on transition to IFRS, to apply IFRS 2
toequity-settledawardsgrantedafter7November2002notvestedby
31 December 2004.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had
vestedonthedateofcancellation,andanycostnotyetrecognisedin
the Income Statement for the award is expensed immediately. This
includes any awards where non-vesting conditions within the control
oftheGrouportheemployeearenotmet.Anycompensationpaidup
to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is
deductedfromequity,withanyexcessoverfairvaluebeingtreatedas
an expense in the Income Statement.
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
45 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
ESOP reserve
Communisis plc shares held by the Group are classified in
shareholders’ equity as the ‘ESOP reserve’ and are recognised at
cost. Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also
recognisedinequity,withanydifferencebetweentheproceedsfrom
sale and the original cost being taken to retained earnings. No gain
orlossisrecognisedintheIncomeStatementonthepurchase,sale,
issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Leases
Thedeterminationofwhetheranarrangementis,orcontains,alease
is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date:
whether fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a
specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use
the assets.
For arrangements entered into prior to 1 January 2005, the date of
inception is deemed to be 1 January 2005 in accordance with the
transitional requirements of IFRIC 4.
Financeleases,whichtransfertotheGroupsubstantiallyalltherisks
and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are
capitalisedatthecommencementoftheleaseatthefairvalueofthe
leasedpropertyor,iflower,atthepresentvalueoftheminimumlease
payments. Lease payments are apportioned between finance
chargesandreductionoftheleaseliabilityonthesumofdigitsbasis.
Finance charges are recognised in the Income Statement.
Leased assets are depreciated over the useful life of the asset.
However,ifthereisnoreasonablecertaintythattheGroupwillobtain
ownershipbytheendoftheleaseterm,theassetisdepreciatedover
theshorteroftheestimatedusefullifeoftheassetandtheleaseterm.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the
Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Revenue
Revenue represents the turnover, net of discounts, derived from
services provided to customers and sales of products applicable to
the year.
Revenueisrecognisedatthefairvalueoftheconsiderationreceived
or receivable to the extent that it is probable that the economic
benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably
measured. The following specific recognition criteria must also be
met before revenue is recognised:
Sale of goods
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of
ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount
of revenue can be measured reliably; this is usually on despatch by
the Group.
Provision of services
The provision of print sourcing services includes the sourcing and
supplyofprintedmaterial.Revenuefromsuchservicesisrecognised
when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the printed
material have passed to the customer and the amount of revenue
can be measured reliably; this is usually on despatch by the print
supplier.
Technology & Services revenue includes sale of consultancy
services,software,managementfeesanddigitalassetmanagement.
Revenue is recognised when the service has been provided.
Revenuefromsoftwarelicencesisrecognisedintheperiodinwhich
it is earned.
Interest
Finance revenue is recognised as the interest accrues using the
effective interest method, which is the rate that exactly discounts
estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the
financial instrument to the net carrying amount.
Exceptional items
The Group presents separately, on the face of the Income
Statement, those material items of income and expense which,
becauseofthenatureandexpectedinfrequencyoftheeventsgiving
rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to
understandbettertheelementsoffinancialperformanceintheyear,
soastofacilitatecomparisonwithpriorperiodsandtobetterassess
trends in financial performance.
Income tax
Current tax
Currenttaxassetsandliabilitiesforthecurrentyeararemeasuredat
the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the Taxation
Authorities.Thetaxratesandtaxlawsusedtocomputetheamount
are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance
sheet date.
Deferred tax
Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all
temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax
basesofassetsandliabilitiesandtheircarryingamountsforfinancial
reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable
temporary differences except in respect of taxable temporary
differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the
timingofthereversalofthetemporarydifferencescanbecontrolled
and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in
the foreseeable future.
Deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesarenotrecognisedifthetemporary
differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill, or from the
initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other
assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable
profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible
temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and
unusedtaxlosses,totheextentthatitisprobablethattaxableprofit
will be available against which the deductible temporary differences
and the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
46 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
can be utilised. In respect of deductible temporary differences
associated with investments in subsidiaries, deferred tax assets are
only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary
differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit
will be available against which the temporary differences can be
utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no
longerprobablethatsufficienttaxableprofitwillbeavailabletoallow
all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax
rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is
realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws)
that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance
sheet date.
Income tax relating to items recognised in other comprehensive
income or directly in equity is also recognised in other
comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Sales tax
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount
of sales tax except:
• wherethesalestaxincurredonapurchaseofgoodsandservices
is not recoverable from the Taxation Authority, in which case the
sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the
asset or as part of the expense item as applicable; and
• receivables and payables which are stated with the amount of
sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the
Taxation Authority is included as part of receivables or payables in
the Balance Sheet.
Dividend distribution
The final dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is
recognised as a liability in the Group’s Financial Statements in the
year in which the dividend is approved by the Company’s
shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised in the year in which
they are paid.
2.5 Adoption of new and revised standards
During the year, the IASB and IFRIC have issued the following
standards and interpretations with an effective date after 1 January
2009:
International Accounting Standards
(IAS/IFRS/IFRIC) Effective date
IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of International
Reporting Standards 1 July 2009
IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRS 1 – Additional
Exemptions for First-time Adopters 1 January 2010
IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRS 1 – Limited
Exemption from Comparative
IFRS 7 disclosures 1 July 2010
IFRS 2 Share-based payment: Group
Cash-settled Share-based
Payment Transactions 1 January 2010
IFRS 3 Business Combination
(revised January 2008) 1 July 2009
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments:
Classification & Measurement 1 January 2013
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosure (revised) 1 January 2011
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial
Statements (revised January 2008) 1 July 2009
IAS 32 Amendment to IAS 32: Classification
of Rights Issues 1 February 2010
IAS 39 Recognition and Measurement:
Eligible Hedged Items 1 July 2009
IFRIC 14 Amendment: Prepayments of a
Minimum Funding Requirement 1 January 2011
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets
to Owners 1 July 2009
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers 1 July 2009
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities
with Equity Instruments 1 July 2010
The Group has not early adopted these amended standards and
interpretations.
Thedirectorsdonotanticipatethattheadoptionofthesestandards
and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s
Financial Statements in the period of initial application.
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
47 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
3 Segmental information
The Group is organised into four main business segments:
Technology & Services, Print Sourcing, Direct Mail (formerly Direct
Mail & Business Forms) and Transactional.
The ‘Technology & Services’ segment includes ‘new model’ print
managementcontractsandallprofitsmadefromsellingadded-value
communication-enhancing services and print or communication
related consultancy.
Customerswhohavesigneduptoa‘newmodel’printmanagement
contract have full access to the Group’s print supply chain and are
able to source print at the cost the Group buys it. The revenue and
cost associated with the print element of the Group’s offering to
these customers is included in the ‘Print Sourcing’ segment. ‘Print
Sourcing’alsoincludes‘oldmodel’printmanagementcontractsthat
rely for profit on marking up print sourced elsewhere.
The Group’s ‘Direct Mail’ segment includes activities in the direct
mail market sector.
The‘Transactional’segmentincludesallchequeandchequemailing
activity along with statement and billing operations.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units
separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource
allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is
evaluated based on operating profit or loss and is measured
consistentlywithoperatingprofitorlossintheConsolidatedFinancial
Statements. However, Group financing (including finance costs and
finance income) and income taxes are managed on a group basis
and are not allocated to operating segments.
A software asset with net book value of £2,295,000 has been
allocated to segment assets as follows: Technology & Services
£606,000, Print Sourcing £753,000 and Transactional £936,000.
The amortisation charge on the asset for 2009 has been allocated
to segments as follows: Technology & Services £10,000, Print
Sourcing £10,000 and Transactional £220,000. Parts of this asset
are still in development and so are not being depreciated (see Note
12).
Transfer pricing between business segments is set on an arms
length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
Segment revenue, segment expense and segment profits include
sales between business segments. Those sales are eliminated on
consolidation and are not included in the revenue figures below.
Sales to external customers disclosed in geographical information
are based on the geographical location of its customers.
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
48 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
3 Segmental information (continued)
Business segments
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2009 are as follows:
Continuing operations
Technology Print Direct Central
& Services Sourcing Mail Transactional Cost Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue 20,282 58,073 53,572 58,261 – 190,188
Profit from operations before
exceptional items 6,283 609 492 9,686 (9,863) 7,207
Adjustment to deferred consideration
for disposal of Bath business – – (650) – – (650)
Exceptional property provisions – – – – (2,000) (2,000)
Profit from operations 6,283 609 (158) 9,686 (11,863) 4,557
Net finance costs (1,960)
Profit before tax 2,597
Income tax income 562
Profit for the year 3,159
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets excluding goodwill 7,915 10,728 21,165 21,782 4,286 65,876
Goodwill 49,720 20,433 52,377 28,120 – 150,650
57,635 31,161 73,542 49,902 4,286 216,526
Unallocated assets 21,620
Total assets 238,146
Segment liabilities 2,129 12,472 11,806 13,019 12,907 52,333
Unallocated liabilities 57,545
Total liabilities 109,878
Other segment information
Capital expenditure
Property, plant and equipment 193 22 1,280 3,731 487 5,713
Intangible assets 960 – – 362 34 1,356
1,153 22 1,280 4,093 521 7,069
Depreciation 246 299 2,673 1,737 210 5,165
Amortisation 949 75 184 525 62 1,795
Revenue includes sales to four customers who each individually represent more than 10% of the Group’s total revenue. Sales to Customer 1
and Customer 2 were £29.1m and £28.8m respectively, and included transactions with each business segment. Sales to Customer 3 were
£27.0m, and included transactions with the Technology & Services and Transactional segments. Sales to Customer 4 were £23.0m, and
included transactions with the Print Sourcing, Direct Mail, and Transactional segments.
Inter-segment sales amounting to £10.0m, £5.0m and £6.8m were made to Print Sourcing from Direct Mail, Transactional, and Technology
& Services respectively. Inter-segment sales amounting to £0.2m and £1.1m were made to Direct Mail from Transactional and Technology &
Servicesrespectively.Inter-segmentsalesamountingto£0.4m,£0.1mand£0.2mweremadetoTransactionalfromDirectMail,PrintSourcing
and Technology & Services respectively.
The unallocated assets and liabilities figures include current and deferred tax, pension deficit, cash and borrowings.
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
49 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
3 Segmental information (continued)
Business segments (continued)
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2008 were as follows:
Continuing operations
Technology Print Direct Central
& Services Sourcing Mail Transactional Cost Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue 11,851 96,727 91,816 57,336 – 257,730
Profit from operations before
exceptional items 5,127 1,308 5,445 13,329 (10,233) 14,976
Gains arising on disposal of Bath business – – 1,380 – – 1,380
Exceptional property provisions – – – – (1,969) (1,969)
Profit from operations 5,127 1,308 6,825 13,329 (12,202) 14,387
Net finance costs (1,661)
Profit before tax 12,726
Income tax expense (4,095)
Profit for the year 8,631
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets excluding goodwill 8,075 11,304 29,686 20,346 2,890 72,301
Goodwill 48,138 20,433 52,377 28,120 – 149,068
56,213 31,737 82,063 48,466 2,890 221,369
Unallocated assets 17,940
Total assets 239,309
Segment liabilities 1,564 16,934 13,005 12,772 13,601 57,876
Unallocated liabilities 46,666
Total liabilities 104,542
Other segment information
Capital expenditure
Property, plant & equipment 331 242 2,964 1,512 251 5,300
Intangible assets 1,945 40 30 1,004 200 3,219
Acquired assets 76 – – – – 76
2,352 282 2,994 2,516 451 8,595
Depreciation 40 520 3,322 1,392 120 5,394
Amortisation 591 62 173 169 46 1,041
Revenue includes sales to three customers who each individually represent more than 10% of the Group’s total revenue. Sales to Customer
1andCustomer2were£49.4mand£30.4mrespectively,andincludedtransactionswitheachbusinesssegment.SalestoCustomer3were
£26.3m, and included transactions with the Technology & Services and Transactional segments.
Inter-segmentsalesamountingto£29.1m,£6.5mand£3.1mweremadetoPrintSourcingfromDirectMail&BusinessForms,Transactional,
andTechnology&Servicesrespectively.Inter-segmentsalesamountingto£0.3mand£0.9mweremadetoDirectMail&BusinessFormsfrom
TransactionalandTechnology&Servicesrespectively.Inter-segmentsalesamountingto£5.1m,£0.2mand£0.2mweremadetoTransactional
from Direct Mail & Business Forms, Print Sourcing and Technology & Services respectively.
The unallocated assets and liabilities figures include current and deferred tax, pension deficit, cash and borrowings.
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
50 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
3 Segmental information (continued)
Geographical information
2009 2008
£000 £000
Revenues from external customers
United Kingdom 183,316 249,661
Other countries 6,872 8,069
190,188 257,730
Non-current assets
United Kingdom 182,395 180,878
Europe 1 44
182,396 180,922
Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
4 Revenue
Revenue disclosed in the Income Statement is analysed as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Sale of goods 111,833 149,152
Provision of services:
Technology & Services and Print Sourcing 78,355 108,578
Sales revenue 190,188 257,730
Interest income on financial assets carried at amortised cost 499 419
Net defined benefit scheme finance income – 250
Gain on cash flow hedges – 62
Finance revenue 499 731
Total revenue 190,687 258,461
No revenue was derived from exchanges of goods and services (2008 £nil).
5 Other expenses
5.1 Finance costs
2009 2008
£000 £000
Interest expense for borrowings at amortised cost 1,361 2,392
Net defined benefit scheme finance costs 862 –
Loss on cash flow hedges 236 –
Finance costs 2,459 2,392
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
51 5 Other expenses (continued)
5.2 Finance costs and finance revenue by category of financial instruments
2009 2008
£000 £000
Interest on receivables measured at amortised cost 499 419
Interest on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (1,361) (2,392)
Net interest from financial assets and financial liabilities not at fair value through Income Statement (862) (1,973)
(Loss)/gain on foreign currency financial liabilities (236) 62
Retirement benefit related (expense)/income (862) 250
(1,960) (1,661)
5.3 Employee benefits expense
2009 2008
£000 £000
Wages and salaries 45,533 56,334
Social security costs 4,544 5,090
Pension costs 2,373 2,539
Expense of share-based payments 230 404
Redundancy costs 1,937 949
54,617 65,316
2009 2008
Number Number
The average monthly number of employees during the year was made up as follows:
United Kingdom 1,409 1,694
Continental Europe 8 9
1,417 1,703
2009 2008
£000 £000
Compensation of key management personnel
Short-term employee benefits 1,210 1,482
Share-based payments (equity-settled) 179 191
Total compensation paid to key management personnel 1,389 1,673
Key management personnel consist of directors of the Company only. Details of individual directors’ remuneration, pension entitlements and
interestsareprovidedwithintheDirectors’RemunerationReportonpages28to35.DetailsoftheGroup’spensioncommitmentsareprovided
in Note 15 to these Financial Statements.
Details of the directors’ interests in employee share incentive plans are provided within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages
34 to 35.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
52 5 Other expenses (continued)
5.4 Exceptional items
2009 2008
£000 £000
Profit from operations is arrived at after charging/(crediting) the following items:
Gains arising on disposal of Bath business – (1,380)
Adjustment to deferred consideration for disposal of Bath business 650 –
Exceptional property provisions 2,000 1,969
Exceptional items 2,650 589
On 30 June 2008, the Group disposed of the Bath operation which comprised Communisis’ Bath Business Forms and Economailer
businesses, both of which were part of the Direct Mail & Business Forms segment. At 31 December 2009, £450,000 (2008 £4,600,000) of
deferred consideration was due to the Group in respect of this sale. During 2009, £650,000 of the deferred consideration was written off in
return for early payment of £3,000,000 of the remaining balance.
The exceptional property provisions relate primarily to the estimated costs for the rental obligations, dilapidations and other costs of surplus
premiseswhicharelong-terminnature.TheprovisionreflectstheestimateddiscountednetcosttotheGroupovertheremainderofthelease
period (maximum 2 years). This provision has been classified as exceptional by virtue of its size and the fact that the liabilities arise from
businessesthatceasedtobepartofCommunisis’tradingactivitiessomeyearsagoandthereforethecostsarenotrelatedtocurrentoperating
activities.
5.5 Auditors’ remuneration
The remuneration of the auditors is analysed as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Audit of the Group Financial Statements 62 62
Other fees to the auditors – local statutory audits for subsidiaries 136 136
– taxation services 67 79
– other services – 40
265 317
5.6 Operating lease payments
2009 2008
£000 £000
Minimum lease payments 3,887 3,521
Sub-lease receipts (1,099) (449)
2,788 3,072
5.7 Research and development
2009 2008
£000 £000
Research and development expenditure expensed during the year 364 98
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
53 6 Income tax
The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008 are:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Tax charged in the Income Statement
Current income tax
UK Corporation Tax 1,219 3,543
Adjustments in respect of prior years (1,476) (1,723)
Overseas tax on profits for the year 33 –
Total current income tax (credit)/charge (224) 1,820
Deferred income tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (327) 1,699
Adjustments in respect of prior years (11) (232)
Changes in tax rates and laws – 808
Total deferred tax (credit)/charge (338) 2,275
Tax (credit)/charge in the Consolidated Income Statement (562) 4,095
Tax relating to items charged or credited to other comprehensive income
2009 2008
£000 £000
Deferred income tax
Actuarial gains on pension scheme – current year (credit)/charge (2,489) 347
Tax on financial liability (10) (67)
Income tax (credit)/expense reported in Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (2,499) 280
Current tax adjustments in respect of prior years relate to the release of provisions created in respect of prior years’ tax submissions, agreed
in the current year.
Reconciliation of the total tax charge
The tax expense in the Income Statement for the year is lower (2008 higher) than the average standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of
28% (2008 28.5%). The differences are reconciled below:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Profit before income tax 2,597 12,726
At UK statutory income tax rate of 28% (2008 28.5%) 727 3,627
Write off of goodwill on disposal, not deductible for tax purposes – 1,003
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 169 347
Unrelieved overseas losses 21 171
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions (41) –
Share-based payments 81 134
Change in deferred tax in respect of rolled over capital gains (32) (40)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (1,487) (1,147)
Tax (credit)/charge in the Consolidated Income Statement (562) 4,095
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
54 6 Income tax (continued)
Unrecognised tax losses
The Group has unrecognised losses, which arose outside of the UK, for which there is no expiry date, of £3,437,000 (2008 £3,659,000) that
areavailableforoffsetagainstfuturetaxableprofitsofthecompaniesinwhichthelossesarose.Nodeferredtaxassetshavebeenrecognised
inrespectofanyoftheselossesastheirfutureutilisationisuncertainandtheymaynotbeusedtooffsettaxableprofitselsewhereintheGroup.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet is as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Deferred tax (asset)/liability
Accelerated capital allowances 1,952 2,335
Other short-term timing differences (1,215) (1,675)
Held-over capital gains 474 1,430
Capital gains rolled over into replacement assets 951 983
Share-based payments (70) (87)
Pensions (4,906) (3,109)
Financial liability (77) (67)
Customer relationships intangible assets 449 543
Deferred tax (asset)/liability (2,442) 353
TherealisationoftheabovecurrentyeardeferredtaxassetisdependantupontheanticipatedcontinuingprofitabilityoftheGroup.Thedeferred
tax asset is recognised as the directors foresee future profits adequate to assume recovery.
The deferred tax (credit)/charge included in the Consolidated Income Statement is as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Accelerated capital allowances (383) 1,083
Other short-term timing differences 460 (526)
Held-over capital (gains)/losses (956) 440
Capital gains rolled over into replacement assets (32) (40)
Share-based payments 17 (13)
Pensions 655 1,367
Customer relationships intangible assets (99) (36)
Deferred tax (credit)/charge (338) 2,275
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
55 7 Acquisition of business
On 22 December 2008 the Group acquired the whole issued share capital of Absolute Intuistic Ltd. Details of the consideration paid and
book values of assets and liabilities acquired are set out below. This transaction was accounted for by the purchase method of accounting.
Fair value
Book to Group
values (restated)
£000 £000
Intangible assets 841 1,139
Property, plant and equipment 76 76
Bank overdraft (215) (215)
Cash at bank 11
Trade and other receivables 1,375 1,375
Trade and other payables (796) (796)
Deferred tax – (319)
Income tax payable (248) (248)
Fair value of net assets acquired 1,034 1,013
Goodwill 7,942
Consideration 8,955
Satisfied by:
Cash 4,230
Contingent consideration 3,905
Adjusted initial consideration 284
Costs associated with the acquisition – paid 15
Costs associated with the acquisition – year end creditors 521
Total consideration 8,955
The net cash outflow arising from the acquisition was as follows:
Cash consideration, as above 4,245
Net bank overdraft acquired, as above 214
Net outflow of cash 4,459
The net assets recognised in the 31 December 2008 Financial Statements were based on a provisional assessment of fair value due to the
proximity of the acquisition to the year end. A full review of the fair values of the assets acquired was completed during 2009 and this did not
identify the need for any adjustment to the fair values.
The goodwill recognised above includes certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured due to their
nature. These items include an assembled workforce, and value of expected synergies through future earnings capacity and cost savings.
The maximum amount of contingent consideration that may be payable is £8 million and is dependent on the business achieving growth
targets for EBITDA during the period to 31 August 2010.
FollowingarevisiontotheexpectationaroundthegrowthtargetsforEBITDAduringtheperiodto31August2010thecontingentconsideration
as at 31 December 2009 has been increased by £1,582,000 to £3,905,000 with an equal increase in the amount attributed to goodwill.
The cash flow effect of costs associated with the acquisition in 2009 was £600,000.
Absolute Intuistic Ltd contributed a loss of £17,000 from the date of acquisition (22 December 2008) to 31 December2008 to the profit from
operationsoftheGroup.Ifthecombinationhadtakenplaceatthebeginningoftheyear,theprofitaftertaxfortheGroupfor2008wouldhave
been £9,103,000 and the revenue would have been £264,415,000, excluding the impact of intangibles amortisation and employee retention
bonuses.
The results of this business are included within the Technology & Services business segment.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
56 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
8 Disposal of business included within continuing operations
On 30 June 2008, the Group disposed of the Bath operation which comprised Communisis’ Bath Business Forms and Economailer
businesses, both of which were part of the Direct Mail & Business Forms segment of the Group’s divisions. Printing activity in this segment
continued and therefore the disposal of the Bath operation was not regarded as a separate major line of business that would merit treatment
asadiscontinuedoperation.ThePurchaserwaswhollyownedbyMCAARPHoldingsLtd,whichinturnwasownedbytheformermanagement
team of the Bath operation, as notified to shareholders in a circular dated 13 June 2008.
TheBathBusinessFormsbusinessmanufacturedbusinessformsstationeryforanumberofclientsfromitsfactoryinMidsomerNorton,near
Bath, Somerset. The Economailer business was a small sales force for specialised payroll products, largely manufactured at the Bath plant.
The exceptional profit arising on the disposal of the Bath Business Forms operation was calculated as follows:
2008
£000 £000
Disposal proceeds:
Cash 8,200
Deferred consideration 4,600
12,800
Less tangible net assets disposed of:
Property, plant and equipment (3,670)
Inventories (3,320)
Trade and other receivables (6,837)
Trade and other payables 5,577
(8,250)
Less disposal costs (400)
Profit on disposal chargeable to tax 4,150
Less intangible assets written off (3,520)
Pension related curtailment gain (see note below) 750
Gains arising on disposal (included in profit from operations) 1,380
Tax:
Chargeable against profit on disposal (1,162)
Chargeable against curtailment gain (210)
(1,372)
Profit after tax attributable to disposal of Bath Business Forms operation 8
At 31 December 2009, £450,000 (2008 £4,600,000) of deferred consideration was due to the Group in respect of this sale. In June 2009,
£500,000 of deferred consideration was repaid at the scheduled time. A further £650,000 of the deferred consideration was written off (with
a consequential change to deferred tax of £182,000) in return for early payment of £3,000,000 of the remaining balance.
The pension related curtailment gain arises because, on leaving the Group, employees of the Bath operation became deferred members of
the Communisis Pension Plan. This, in turn, results in a reduction in the Group pension related deficit which is treated as a curtailment gain.
The tax charge arising on the sale of the Bath operation was £1,372,000, all of which was treated as deferred.
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
57 9 Earnings per share
2009 2008
000 000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (excluding ESOP shares) for basic earnings per share 138,323 138,285
Effect of dilution:
Share options 2,171 2,060
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (excluding ESOP shares) adjusted for the effect of dilution 140,494 140,345
279,628 (2008 279,628) shares were held in trust at 31 December 2009.
Shareoptionsinissueforwhichexerciseiscurrentlyunlikely(astheoptionpriceishigherthantheaveragemarketprice)total6,218,971(2008
3,390,064) options. As a consequence, these options have not been included in the diluted earnings per share in the current year.
2009 2008
£000 £000
Basic and diluted earnings per share is calculated as follows:
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 3,159 8,631
Earnings per share
Basic 2.28p 6.24p
Diluted 2.25p 6.15p
Earnings per share from continuing operations before exceptional items
Net profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and attributable to equity holders
of the parent is derived as follows: 2009 2008
£000 £000
Profit after taxation from continuing operations 3,159 8,631
Exceptional items (Note 5.4):
Gains arising on disposal of Bath business – (1,380)
Adjustment to deferred consideration for disposal of Bath business 650 –
Exceptional property provisions 2,000 1,969
5,809 9,220
Taxation on exceptional items (742) 821
Taxation – adjustments in respect of prior years (Note 6) (1,487) (1,147)
Profit after taxation from continuing operations excluding exceptional items 3,580 8,894
Adjusted earnings per share
Basic 2.59p 6.43p
Diluted 2.55p 6.34p
Adjusted earnings per share uses the same weighted average number of ordinary shares as reported above.
10 Dividends paid and proposed
2009 2008
Declared and paid during the year £000 £000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
Final dividend of the year ended 31 December 2007 of 1.635p per share – 2,261
Interim dividend of the year ended 31 December 2008 of 0.860p per share – 1,189
Final dividend of the year ended 31 December 2008 of 1.635p per share 2,262 –
Interim dividend of the year ended 31 December 2009 of 0.860p per share 1,190 –
3,452 3,450
Proposed for approval at AGM (not recognised as a liability as at 31 December)
Final equity dividend on ordinary shares for 2009 of 0.430p (2008 1.635p) per share 595 2,261
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
58 11 Property, plant and equipment
Plant,
Long Short equipment
Freehold leasehold leasehold and motor
property property property vehicles Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2008 7,895 1,515 1,680 63,067 74,157
Additions 19 – 5 5,276 5,300
Acquisition of business – – – 76 76
Disposals – (11) – (846) (857)
Disposal of business – (61) – (12,407) (12,468)
Adjustment to prior year disposals 1,014 4 (135) 2,849 3,732
At 31 December 2008 8,928 1,447 1,550 58,015 69,940
Additions 141 – – 5,572 5,713
Disposals – – (28) (1,522) (1,550)
Exchange adjustment – – (3) (17) (20)
At 31 December 2009 9,069 1,447 1,519 62,048 74,083
Depreciation
At 1 January 2008 454 694 193 45,343 46,684
Depreciation charge for the year 324 54 141 4,875 5,394
Disposals – (12) – (797) (809)
Disposal of business – (61) – (8,737) (8,798)
Adjustment to prior year disposals 1,253 (70) (155) 2,689 3,717
At 31 December 2008 2,031 605 179 43,373 46,188
Depreciation charge for the year 325 78 106 4,656 5,165
Disposals – – (28) (1,462) (1,490)
Exchange adjustment (2) – (3) (11) (16)
At 31 December 2009 2,354 683 254 46,556 49,847
Net book value at 31 December 2009 6,715 764 1,265 15,492 24,236
Net book value at 31 December 2008 6,897 842 1,371 14,642 23,752
Net book value at 31 December 2007 7,441 821 1,487 17,724 27,473
There is no security, nor any restriction on title. There are no assets under construction.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
59 12 Intangible assets
Software Customer
assets Goodwill relationships Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2008 8,327 208,139 3,330 219,796
Additions 2,866 – 353 3,219
Acquisition of business 196 6,360 943 7,499
Disposals (498) – – (498)
Disposal of business (753) (10,254) – (11,007)
At 31 December 2008 10,138 204,245 4,626 219,009
Additions 1,356 – – 1,356
Additional consideration adjustment – – (153) (153)
Acquisition of business – 1,582 – 1,582
Disposals (86) – – (86)
At 31 December 2009 11,408 205,827 4,473 221,708
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2008 4,467 61,911 2,396 68,774
Amortisation during the year 915 – 126 1,041
Disposals (491) – – (491)
Disposal of business (751) (6,734) – (7,485)
At 31 December 2008 4,140 55,177 2,522 61,839
Amortisation during the year 1,281 – 514 1,795
Disposals (86) – – (86)
At 31 December 2009 5,335 55,177 3,036 63,548
Net book value at 31 December 2009 6,073 150,650 1,437 158,160
Net book value at 31 December 2008 5,998 149,068 2,104 157,170
Net book value at 31 December 2007 3,860 146,228 934 151,022
As from 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, goodwill is no longer amortised but is now subject to annual impairment testing
(Note 13). The cumulative impairment loss is £30.2m (2008 £30.2m).
The customer relationship asset arising on the acquisition of the whole of the issued share capital of Absolute Intuistic Ltd was £943,000.
This will be amortised evenly over the expected duration of the customer relationship, estimated at five years.
Softwareassetsareamortisedevenlyovertheirusefuleconomiclivesofbetweenthreeandsevenyearsandhavebetweennilandsevenyears
left to be amortised. Included in software assets is £1,217,140 (2008 £1,734,570) currently in development. Amortisation will commence in
2010. Software assets currently in development have been assessed for impairment, and management are satisfied that their value is fully
recoverable through their value in use.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
60 13 Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated for impairment testing purposes to four cash-generating units, which are
reportable segments, as follows:
Technology & Services;
Print Sourcing;
Direct Mail; and
Transactional.
These represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
The recoverable amount of all four units has been determined based on a value in use calculation using risk-adjusted cash flow projections
based on financial budgets, influenced by historical experience and market trends, approved by the Board. The approach is consistent with
that used in prior years; however, assumptions have been updated to reflect current economic conditions.
There is no impairment charge in the current year (2008 £nil).
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to cash-generating units, is as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Technology & Services 49,720 48,138
Print Sourcing 20,433 20,433
Direct Mail 52,377 52,377
Transactional 28,120 28,120
150,650 149,068
There are no other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations
Discount rates
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projections is 8.75% (2008 8.75%). This is the Group’s weighted average cost of capital
adjusted to a pre-tax rate and adjusted to reflect market assessment of specific risks associated with the projected cash flows.
Period over which projected cash flows are based on approved financial budgets
TheperiodoverwhichcashflowsareprojectedbasedonfinancialbudgetsapprovedbytheBoardisthreeyears(2008threeyears)inrespect
of all cash-generating units. The financial budgets include the estimated financial effects of the decline in the economy.
Profit growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the budget period
Theprofitgrowthrateusedtoextrapolatecashflowprojectionsbeyondthebudgetperiodforallcash-generatingunitsisbelowthelong-term
average growth rate for the UK and is considered to be a representative rate for the markets to which these segments are dedicated.
Profit growth rates have been assessed individually for each cash-generating unit (primary segment). Technology & Services profit growth
rates range between 0% and 2.5% (2008 0% and 2.5%), Print Sourcing profit growth rates are 2% (2008 2%), Direct Mail profit growth rates
are 2.5% (2008 2.5%) and Transactional growth rates range between -2% and 2% (2008 -2% and 2%).
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
In 2009 no impairment charge has been made against goodwill for any of the cash-generating units. The headroom in the Print Sourcing
segment is £2,911,000 (2008 £3,131,000) and the Direct Mail segment is £6,139,000.
All other items remaining equal, the discount rate would need to increase by 0.55% to 9.3% to remove all headroom within the Direct Mail
impairment test and by 0.75% to 9.5% to remove all headroom within the Print Sourcing impairment test.
On average, long term growth rates would need to be reduced 0.75% and 1% to remove all headroom on the Direct Mail and Print Sourcing
impairment tests respectively.
DisclosuresinthissectionrelatetothePrintSourcingandDirectMailsectors,asthesesectorshavethelowestamountofheadroomavailable.
For each of the other segments the effect of a reasonably possible change in any key assumption would not be sufficient to eliminate the
headroom.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
61 14 Share-based payments
The Executive Share Option Scheme 2000
Certain directors and management are eligible to participate in the above scheme at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The exercise price of the options is equal to the market value of the shares on the date of grant. In respect of options granted prior to
1 January 2005, the options vest if the percentage increase in normalised earnings (i.e. before intangibles amortisation, restructuring costs
and other exceptional items) per share over any three consecutive financial years exceeds the percentage increase in the Retail Prices
Index over that period by an average of at least 3% per annum. The contractual life of each option granted is ten years. There are no cash
settlement alternatives.
In respect of options granted since 1 January 2005 if the performance condition is not met within three years from the date of grant, the
options lapse.
For options granted to the former Chief Executive in 2006 and all options granted under this scheme in 2007 and 2008, 50% of the options
vest if the Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) of the Company, as compared to the TSR performance of all companies in the Support Services
sector of the FTSE All Share Index (excluding FTSE 100 companies), is at or above the median level over a three-year period. The other 50%
oftheoptionsvestiftheTSRoftheCompany,ascomparedtotheTSRperformanceofallcompaniesintheFTSESmallCapIndex(excluding
investment trusts), is at or above the median level over a three-year period. If the performance condition is not fulfilled within the three-year
period from the date of grant, the options lapse. The contractual life of each option granted is ten years. There are no cash settlement
alternatives.
No options were granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 in the year ended 31 December 2009. The fair value of options
grantedunderthisschemeintheyearto31December2008wereestimatedonthedateofgrantusingahybridsimulationandbinomialoption
pricingmodel,takingintoaccountthetermsandconditionsuponwhichtheoptionsweregranted.Thefollowingweightedaverageassumptions
wereusedinthatmodel:anexpectedlifeextendingsixmonthslaterthantheexercisedate;sharepriceatthedateofgrantof£0.52;estimated
annualised dividend yield of approximately 6.0%; risk-free interest rate of approximately 4.5% and expected volatility of 38.0%. Volatility has
beendeterminedbyreferencetoCommunisisplc’sandcomparatorcompanies’historicalvolatilityoverathree-yearperiod,whichisexpected
to reflect the share price of Communisis plc in the future. The weighted average fair value of the share options granted in the year ended 31
December 2008 was £0.117.
Theexpectedlifeoftheoptionsisbasedonhistoricaldataandisnotnecessarilyindicativeofexercisepatternswhichmayoccur.Theexpected
volatility reflects historical volatility adjusted for future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome. Both the historical and
expected volatilities reflect the volatility of the share prices of Communisis plc and comparator companies.
The Communisis Long Term Incentive Plan 2007
CertaindirectorsandmanagementareeligibletoparticipateinthisplanatthediscretionoftheRemunerationCommittee.Inrespectofoptions
granted under the scheme the exercise price is £nil. For all options granted in 2007 to 2009, 50% of the options become exercisable if the
TSR of the Company, as compared to the TSR performance of all companies in the Support Services sector of the FTSE All Share Index
(excluding FTSE100 companies),isator abovethemedianlevelovera three-yearperiod.Theother50%oftheoptionsbecomeexercisable
iftheTSRoftheCompany,ascomparedtotheTSRperformanceofallcompaniesintheFTSESmallCapIndex(excludinginvestmenttrusts),
is at or above the median level over a three-year period. 30% of each tranche of options will vest for performance at the median of the
comparatorgrouprising,onastraight-linebasis,to100%vestingforperformanceinthetopdecileofthecomparatorgroup.Iftheperformance
conditions are not fulfilled within the three-year period from the date of grant, the options lapse. The contractual life of each option granted is
five years. There are no cash settlement alternatives.
The fair value of options granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 in the year to 31 December 2009 has been estimated on the date
of grant using a simulation option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The
following weighted average assumptions were used in that model: an expected life of three years; share price at the date of grant of £0.1945
(2008 £0.529); estimated annualised dividend yield of approximately 7.8% (2008 6.0%); risk-free interest rate of approximately 2.63% (2008
4.2%) and expected volatility of 48.8% (2008 38.0%).
Volatility has been determined by reference to Communisis plc’s and comparator companies’ historical volatility over a three-year period,
which is expected to reflect the share price of Communisis plc in the future. The weighted average fair value of the share options granted in
the year ended 31 December 2009 under this plan was £0.10368 (2008 £0.27155).
Theexpectedlifeoftheoptionsisbasedonhistoricaldataandisnotnecessarilyindicativeofexercisepatternswhichmayoccur.Theexpected
volatility reflects historical volatility adjusted for future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome. Both the historical and
expected volatilities reflect the volatility of the share prices of Communisis plc and comparator companies.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
62 14 Share-based payments (continued)
Options awarded to the Chairman
On 19 December 2007, shortly after his appointment, Mr Hickson was awarded 250,000 nil cost share options in the Company, and on 20
December 2007, he entered a contract with RBC Trust Company (Jersey) Limited (‘RBC’) for these options, on exercise, to be satisfied by
thetransferofordinarysharesalreadyheldbytheCompany’sEmployeeBenefitTrust,ofwhichRBCistheTrustee.Thegrantofthoseoptions
was conditional upon the purchase by Mr Hickson of 250,000 ordinary shares in the Company (‘the Matching Shares’); this purchase was
executed on 18 December 2007. The principal conditions for the exercise of these options are that the options will not normally vest until the
third anniversary of the date of grant (‘the Vesting Date’); if he ceases to be the beneficial owner of some or all of the Matching Shares before
the Vesting Date the extent of the vesting will be reduced accordingly; if he ceases to be an employee of the Group, or in the event of a
takeover, before the Vesting Date, his options will normally vest on a time pro-rata basis; exercise may normally take place only between the
Vesting Date and the fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
No further options have been awarded to Mr Hickson in 2008 nor 2009.
The Sharesave Scheme
All UK employees (including directors) are eligible to participate in the Communisis Sharesave Scheme. The exercise price of the options is
usually equal to the market price of the shares at the date of invitation to participate less a maximum discount of 20%. In the year ended 31
December2009,Sharesaveoptionsweregrantedatparvalueof25ppershare.Theoptionsvestoneitherthethirdorfifthanniversaryofthe
commencement of the savings period. Any options which have not been exercised within six months of the vesting date lapse.
The weighted average fair value of Sharesave options granted in the year ended 31 December 2009 has been estimated at the date of grant
using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The following weighted average assumptions were used in that model: option holders will
exercise their option at expiry; share price at the date of grant of £0.19; estimated annualised dividend yield of approximately 7.8%; risk-free
interest rate of 2.65% and expected volatility of 57%. The volatility has been determined by reference to Communisis plc’s and comparator
companies’historicalvolatilityoverathree-yearperiod,adjustedforexpectedfuturetrends,toreflectthesharepriceofCommunisisplcinthe
future. The exercise price is £0.25 for options exercisable three years after the date of grant. No options exercisable five years after the date
ofgrantweregrantedin2009.Theweightedaveragefairvalueoftheshareoptionsgrantedintheyearended31December2009was£0.04.
No Sharesave options were granted in 2008 and therefore no comparatives are given.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share.
Thefollowingtableillustratesthenumberandweightedaverageexerciseprices(WAEP)of,andmovementsin,shareoptionsduringtheyear.
2009 2009 2008 2008
Number WAEP £ Number WAEP £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
1
8,523,946 0.65284 8,767,532 0.76873
Granted during the year 4,746,413 0.22893 1,755,740 0.19935
Forfeited during the year (3,179,064) 0.68056 (1,888,525) 0.74482
Exercised during the year
2
–– (59,321) 0.46476
Expired during the year (1,721,918) 0.82520 (51,480) 1.76675
Outstanding at the end of the year
1
8,369,377 0.36694 8,523,946 0.65284
Exercisable at the end of the year 518,176 1.56250 605,260 1.56250
1
Includedwithinthisbalanceareoptionsover764,921shares(20081,137,229shares)thathavenotbeenrecognisedinaccordancewithIFRS2astheoptions
weregrantedonorbefore7November2002.Theseoptionshavenotbeensubsequentlymodifiedandthereforedonotneedtobeaccountedforinaccordance
with IFRS 2.
2
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised in the year ended 31 December 2009 was £nil (2008 £0.59992).
Theweightedaverageremainingcontractuallifefortheshareoptionsoutstandingasat31December2009is3.338years(20084.97years).
The weighted average fair value of all options granted during the year was £0.04537 (2008 £0.20635).
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was £nil – £1.765 (2008 £nil – £1.765). The number of share
options for which the exercise price is £nil total 2,380,270 (2008 2,160,270).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
63 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
15 Retirement benefit plans
The Group operates defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans.
Defined contribution schemes
TheGroupoperatesaUKdefinedcontributionarrangementwithinthreeUKGroupCompanies,Communisisplc,CommunisisUKLimitedand
Absolute Intuistic Limited. The assets of the arrangements are held separately from those of the Group.
Group companies are required to contribute a specified percentage of payroll costs to the retirement benefit scheme to fund the benefits.
The only obligation of the Group with respect to the retirement benefit scheme is to make the specified contributions.
The total cost charged to income of £1,569,442 (2008 £1,832,666) represents contributions payable to these arrangements by the Group at
specifiedrates.Asat31December2009allcontributionsdueinrespectofthecurrentreportingperiodhadbeenpaidovertothearrangements
(2008 all paid over).
The Group expects to contribute £1.5m to the defined contribution pension arrangements in 2010.
Defined benefit scheme
The defined benefit pension scheme closed to new members on 6 April 2005 (with the exception of ex-HSBC members).
Following the statutory consultation period, the defined benefit pension plan closed to future service accruals from 1 December 2007.
The scheme was closed for all members with the exception of the ex-HSBC members.
The defined benefit schemes are as follows:
Final salary
The final salary section provides a pension of one sixtieth or one eightieth (depending on the level of employee contribution) of final salary at
normal retirement age for each year of pensionable service. This is subject to the benefit not exceeding one thirtieth of the scheme specific
earningscapforeachyearofpensionableservice,whichappliestomemberswhojoinedthePlanonorafter1June1989.Normalretirement
age is 65 (60 for ex-HSBC members).
Career average revalued earnings
Thecareeraveragerevaluedearningssectionprovidesanaccrualeachyearofaunitofoneforty-fifth,onesixtiethoroneeightieth(depending
onthelevelofemployeecontribution)ofpensionablesalaryforthatyear.Theunitisthenrevaluedineachsubsequentyearbytherateofgrowth
in the Retail Prices Index until normal retirement age. The normal retirement age under this section is 65 except for certain executives whose
normal retirement age is set at 62, where the accrual rate is one forty-fifth.
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement and in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year
are analysed as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Recognised in the Income Statement
Current service cost (195) (386)
Recognised in arriving at profit from operations (195) (386)
Pension curtailment gain – 750
Recognised in exceptional items – 750
Expected return on scheme assets 8,337 9,348
Interest cost on scheme liabilities (8,864) (9,098)
Other finance (income)/cost (527) 250
Taken to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Actual return on scheme assets 22,590 (22,507)
Less: expected return on scheme assets (8,337) (9,348)
14,253 (31,855)
Other actuarial (losses)/gains (23,142) 33,095
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (8,889) 1,240
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since 1 January 2004 in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive
Income is a gain of £7,828,000 (2008 gain of £16,717,000). The directors are unable to determine how much of the pension scheme deficit
recognisedontransitiontoIFRSandtakendirectlytoequityof£38,240,000isattributabletoactuarialgainsandlossessinceinceptionofthe
Group’spensionscheme.Consequently,thedirectorsareunabletodeterminetheamountofactuarialgainsandlossesthatwouldhavebeen
recognised in the Group Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income before 1 January 2004.
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
64 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
15 Retirement benefit plans (continued)
The following tables summarise the components of net benefit expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement and the funded
status and amounts recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet for the defined benefit pension plan.
Net benefit expense (recognised in employee benefits expense/finance costs)
2009 2008
£000 £000
Current service cost (195) (386)
Interest cost on scheme liabilities (8,864) (9,098)
Expected return on scheme assets 8,337 9,348
Pension curtailment gain – 750
Net benefit (expense)/income (722) 614
Actual return on plan assets 22,590 (22,507)
Benefit asset/(liability)
2009 2008
£000 £000
Defined benefit obligation (155,460) (135,200)
Fair value of plan assets 137,942 124,100
Net pension deficit (17,518) (11,100)
The defined benefit obligation comprises £155 million (2008 £135 million) arising from a partly funded plan.
Present value of the defined benefit obligation
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Opening defined benefit obligation 135,200 165,600
Interest cost 8,864 9,098
Current service cost 195 386
Benefits paid (11,941) (6,039)
Actuarial losses/(gains) on obligations 23,142 (33,095)
Pension curtailment gain – (750)
Closing defined benefit obligation 155,460 135,200
Fair value of plan assets
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Opening fair value of plan assets 124,100 150,870
Expected return on plan assets 8,337 9,348
Contributions by employer 3,193 1,776
Benefits paid (11,941) (6,039)
Actuarial gains/(losses) on assets 14,253 (31,855)
Closing fair value of plan assets 137,942 124,100
TheGroupexpectstocontribute£4.6milliontothedefinedbenefitpensionschemein2010(2009£2.7million).Contributionsbytheemployer
in 2009 include special contributions of £2.5 million (2008 £1.2 million).
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
65 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
15 Retirement benefit plans (continued)
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of the fair value of total plan assets are as follows:
2009 2008
Asset category %%
Equities 45 51
Bonds/Gilts/Cash 35 28
Property 7 7
Other 13 14
100 100
None of the above represents equities or bonds issued by the Group, nor properties owned by the Group.
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the year ended 31 December 2009, the Group considered the
currentlevelofexpectedreturnonrisk-freeinvestments(primarilygovernmentbonds),thehistoricalleveloftheriskpremiumassociatedwith
the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. The expected return for
each asset class was then weighted, based on the asset allocation, to develop the assumed expected long-term rate of return on assets of
7.02% for the portfolio for the year ended 31 December 2009 (2008 7.0%).
The principal weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations for the Group’s plan are shown below:
2009 2008
%%
Discount rate 5.85 6.55
Rate of compensation increase 3.50 3.90
Inflation assumption 3.50 2.90
Mortality rates
Assumed life expectancy for a member aged 65 is as follows: Years Years
Current pensioners:
Male 20.1 19.4
Female 22.6 22.3
Future pensioners:
Male 21.4 20.4
Female 23.8 23.1
A two and a half percentage point change (in absolute terms), in the factors below would have the following effects:
Increase Decrease
Discount rate £000 £000
Effect on current service cost and interest cost (50) 50
Effect on defined benefit obligation (5,900) 6,300
Real salary growth
Effect on current service cost and interest cost 30 (30)
Effect on defined benefit obligation 300 (300)
Inflation
Effect on current service cost and interest cost 220 (230)
Effect on defined benefit obligation 3,800 (4,000)
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Five-year history £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Present value of defined benefit obligation (155,460) (135,200) (165,600) (158,925) (164,402)
Fair value of plan assets 137,942 124,100 150,870 141,619 126,665
Deficit (17,518) (11,100) (14,730) (17,306) (37,737)
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
66 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
15 Retirement benefit plans (continued)
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
History of experience gains/(losses) £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Experience adjustments on plan assets 14,389 (31,855) (977) 2,808 11,332
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities (2,134) (1,239) – 10,384 –
Changes in actuarial assumptions (21,008) 34,334 1,488 5,984 (14,375)
16 Inventories
2009 2008
£000 £000
Raw materials 2,571 2,518
Work in progress 2,077 2,279
Finished goods 1,783 2,451
6,431 7,248
All inventories are held at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
17 Trade and other receivables
2009 2008
£000 £000
Trade receivables 20,348 18,477
Prepayments, accrued income and contract prepayment 7,351 14,722
27,699 33,199
Current 27,249 28,234
Non-current 450 4,965
27,699 33,199
Included within prepayments, accrued income and contract prepayment are unamortised elements of contract prepayments of £865,000
(2008 £1,865,000).
Prepayments, accrued income and contract prepayment also includes £450,000 (2008 £4,600,000) of deferred consideration due to the
Group on the disposal of the Bath business.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and generally on 30-90 days’ credit terms. The carrying value of trade receivables is considered a
reasonableapproximationoffairvalue.AlloftheGroup’stradeandotherreceivableshavebeenreviewedforindicatorsofimpairment.Certain
trade receivables were found to be impaired and a provision of £507,000 (2008 £597,000) is carried at the year end. Trade receivables are
shown net of this doubtful debt provision.
The doubtful debt provision has moved as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
At 1 January 597 1,099
Provisions made during the year 36 132
Amounts written off as uncollectable (50) (84)
Released during year (68) (370)
Released on disposal of Bath business – (189)
Exchange adjustment (8) 9
At 31 December 507 597
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
67 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
17 Trade and other receivables (continued)
IndeterminingtherecoverabilityofatradereceivabletheGroupconsidersanychangeinthecreditqualityofthetradereceivablefromthedate
credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties. The top 10 customers
makeup65%ofthereceivablesbalance(200859%).Generally,customerswhowishtotradeoncredittermsaresubjecttocreditverification
procedures. In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not
significant. The concentration of credit risk is limited to the carrying value of trade debtors. Accordingly the directors believe that there is no
further credit provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.
In addition, some of the unimpaired trade receivables are past due as at the reporting date. The age of financial assets past due but not
impaired is as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Overdue by less than 30 days 1,196 698
30 – 60 days overdue 87 208
60 – 90 days overdue 14 23
More than 90 days overdue – –
1,297 929
18 Financial assets and liabilities
18.1 Financial assets by category
The IAS 39 categories of financial asset included in the Balance Sheet and the headings in which they are included are as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Non-current assets
Trade and other receivables – Loans and receivables 450 4,100
Current assets
Trade and other receivables – Loans and receivables 23,593 24,180
Cash and cash equivalents 19,178 17,940
42,771 42,120
18.2 Financial liabilities by category
The IAS 39 categories of financial liability included in the Balance Sheet and the headings in which they are included are as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 37,236 6,000
Cash flow hedges 45 81
37,281 6,081
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 359 25,000
Trade and other payables – Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 44,478 52,143
Cash flow hedges 231 158
45,068 77,301
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
68 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
19 Cash and cash equivalents
2009 2008
£000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 19,178 17,940
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is £19,178,000
(2008 £17,940,000). Cash at bank includes an amount of £76,500 (2008 £76,500) held in a separate bank account for the purposes of
repaying certain creditors following the cancellation of the share premium account.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 December:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 19,178 17,940
Bank overdrafts – –
19,178 17,940
The bank overdrafts are secured by cross guarantee arrangements.
20 Equity share capital and reserves
2009 2008
Number of Number of
shares £000 shares £000
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 25p each 180,000,000 45,000 180,000,000 45,000
Allotted and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 25p each 138,602,981 34,651 138,602,981 34,651
2009 2008
Nominal Net Nominal Net
value Consideration value Consideration
Number £000 £000 Number £000 £000
Shares allotted during the year
On exercise of options –– – 59,321 15 30
The Group has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
TheGrouphasfourshareoptionschemesunderwhichoptionstosubscribefortheCompany’sshareshavebeengrantedtoemployees(Note14).
Capital redemption reserve
Thecapitalredemptionreserveisusedtorecordtheeffectofsharecapitalbuy-backsmadebytheCompanywherethenominalvalueofshare
capital acquired is transferred to this reserve.
ESOP reserve
The ESOP reserve is used to record the investment in Communisis plc shares held by the employee share ownership plan (‘ESOP’). The
ESOP is for the benefit of all employees and can be used in conjunction with any of the Group’s share schemes. The ESOP reserve holds
279,628 shares at 31 December 2009 (2008 279,628) and the market value of these shares is £36,352 (2008 £128,629).
Merger reserve
This represents the share premium attaching to those shares issued upon the acquisition of subsidiaries.
Cumulative translation adjustment
The cumulative translation adjustment reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements
of foreign subsidiaries. This reserve was reset to zero on 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
69 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
21 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
2009 2008
Interest rate % Maturity £000 £000
Current
Hire purchase contracts (see Note 26) 2.85 April 2014 359 –
£nil bank loan (2008 £15,000,000) LIBOR + 0.50 September 2009 – 15,000
£nil bank loan (2008 £7,000,000) LIBOR + 0.55 March 2009 – 1,000
£nil bank loan (2008 £9,000,000) LIBOR + 0.60 January 2009 – 9,000
359 25,000
Non-current
Hire purchase contracts (see Note 26) 2.85 April 2014 1,585 –
£nil bank loan (2008 £7,000,000) LIBOR + 0.55 March 2010 – 6,000
£10,000,000 bank loan (2008 £nil) LIBOR + 2.25 February 2012 3,906 –
£20,000,000 bank loan (2008 £nil) LIBOR + 2.75 February 2012 11,812 –
£20,000,000 bank loan (2008 £nil) LIBOR + 1.50 December 2011 19,933 –
37,236 6,000
Hire purchase
During the year the Group entered into a hire purchase contract for various items of plant and machinery (see Note 26 for full details).
Bank overdrafts
ThebankoverdraftsareprincipallydenominatedinsterlingandbearinterestatratessetbyreferencetotheUKBaseRate.Theoverdraftsare
securedbycrossguaranteearrangementswiththerelevantbanks.At31December2009and31December2008bankoverdraftfacilitiesof
£5,000,000 and £15,000,000 respectively were available but not utilised.
£10,000,000 bank loan
During the year the €9,000,000 multicurrency bank facility was amended to a £10,000,000 multicurrency bank facility. The repayment date
was also extended from 3 May 2010 to 13 February 2012. This facility is secured by a cross guarantee arrangement. In 2008 €nil and £nil
were drawn down under this facility.
£20,000,000 bank loan
This loan is secured by a cross guarantee arrangement and is repayable in one instalment on 13 February 2012.
£20,000,000 bank loan
Thisloanissecuredbyacrossguaranteearrangementandisrepayableinoneinstalmenton9December2011.Thisfacilityreplacedprevious
facilities of £9,000,000, £5,000,000 and £7,000,000, of which £9,000,000, £nil, and £6,000,000 respectively had been drawn down at
31 December 2008.
At31December2009,theGrouphadavailable£14,000,000(2008£22,700,000)ofundrawncommittedborrowingfacilitiesinrespectofwhich
all conditions precedent had been met.
With the exception of hire purchase agreements, early repayment is possible under the terms of all the borrowing facilities listed above at no
cost by giving more than 5 days notice.
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
70 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
22 Provisions
Business Onerous Litigation
restructuring leases provisions Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2009 550 3,254 183 3,987
Arising during the year – 2,000 147 2,147
Utilised (511) (3,083) (92) (3,686)
At 31 December 2009 39 2,171 238 2,448
Current 2009 39 400 202 641
Non-current 2009 – 1,771 36 1,807
At 31 December 2009 39 2,171 238 2,448
Current 2008 550 1,931 183 2,664
Non-current 2008 – 1,323 – 1,323
At 1 January 2009 550 3,254 183 3,987
Business restructuring
Theprovisionforbusinessrestructuringrepresentsmanagement’sbestestimateoftheGroup’sexpectedcostsofpropertydilapidationrepairs,
and other restructuring.
Onerous leases
The exceptional property provisions relate primarily to the estimated costs for the rental obligations of surplus premises which are long-term
in nature, see Note 5.4 for further details.
Litigation provisions
Thelitigationprovisionrepresentsmanagement’sbestestimateoftheoutcomeofunsettledlitigationcases.Thefinaloutcomedependsupon
negotiations with claimants and final court decisions.
23 Trade and other payables (current)
2009 2008
£000 £000
Trade payables 28,321 31,229
Other payables 8,630 8,111
Taxation and social security 2,262 1,507
Accruals and deferred income 10,700 12,626
Interest payable 99 177
50,012 53,650
Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and generally on 30-90 days’ credit terms. The carrying values are considered to be a
reasonable approximation of fair value.
24 Financial liabilities
2009 2008
£000 £000
Non-current liabilities:
Forward currency contract 16 81
Interest rate swaps 29 –
45 81
Current liabilities:
Forward currency contract 19 158
Interest rate swaps 212 –
231 158
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
71 24 Financial liabilities (continued)
Forward currency contract – cash flow hedge
At31December2009,theGroupheldforwardexchangecontractsdesignatedashedgesofexpectedfuturesalestocustomersintheUnited
States for which the Group has highly probable forecasted transactions. The fair value of these forward currency contracts at
31 December 2009 was £35,000 (2008 £239,000). These mature on various dates between 2010 and 2011.
The forward exchange contracts are being used to hedge the foreign currency risk of the firm commitments.
Interest rate swaps – cash flow hedge
At 31 December 2009, the Group had two interest rate swap agreements in place with a notional amount of £5,000,000 each whereby the
Group pays a fixed rate of interest of 4.48% and 5.68% respectively, and receives a variable rate equal to LIBOR+1.50% and LIBOR+2.75%
respectively on the notional amounts. The swaps are being used to hedge the exposure to changes in the interest rates on the three-year
variable loans.
Fair value hierarchy
The Group used the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique;
Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
Level2:othertechniquesforwhichallinputswhichhaveasignificanteffectontherecordedfairvalueareobservable,eitherdirectlyorindirectly
Level3:techniqueswhichuseinputswhichhaveasignificanteffectontherecordedfairvaluethatarenotbasedonobservablemarketdata.
As at 31 December 2009, the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value:
2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
£000 £000 £000 £000
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Foreign exchange forward contracts – hedged 35 – 35 –
Interest rate swaps 241 – 241 –
During the year there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into or out of Level 3 fair
value measurements.
25 Obligations under operating leases
Operating lease commitments – Group as lessee
Motor vehicles and machinery leases
The Group has entered into commercial leases on motor vehicles and items of machinery. These leases have a remaining life of between one
and five years.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
No later than one year 690 888
After one year but no more than five years 941 1,505
1,631 2,393
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
72 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
25 Obligations under operating leases (continued)
Land and building leases
The Group has entered into commercial land and building leases. These leases have a remaining life of between one and seventy-three years.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
No later than one year 2,708 3,113
After one year but no more than five years 8,454 10,397
After five years 14,016 16,959
25,178 30,469
Operating lease commitments – Group as lessor
The Group has entered into commercial land and building leases consisting of the Group’s surplus office and manufacturing buildings. These
leases have a remaining life of between two and sixty-three years.
Surplus land and building leases
Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
No later than one year 1,099 1,142
After one year but no more than five years 4,093 4,236
After five years 6,402 7,395
11,594 12,773
26 Hire purchase commitments
During the year the Group entered into a hire purchase contract for various items of plant and machinery. The hire purchase contract has a
purchase option at the end of the lease term, for a nominal fee. Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase
contracts together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows:
2009 2008
Present Present
value of value of
Minimum payments Minimum payments
payments (Note 21) payments (Note 21)
£000 £000 £000 £000
Within one year 473 359 ––
After one year but no more than five years 1,743 1,585 ––
Total minimum lease payments 2,216 1,944 ––
Less amounts representing finance charges (272) – ––
Present value of minimum lease payments 1,944 1,944 ––
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
73 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
27 Financial risk management objectives and policies
TheGroup’sprincipalfinancialinstrumentscomprisebankloansandoverdrafts(Note28),cashandshort-termdeposits(Note19)andforward
currency contracts and interest rate swaps (Note 24). The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Group’s
operations and to manage exchange rate and interest rate risk. The Group has various other financial assets and liabilities such as trade
receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are cash flow interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and credit risk.
Cash flow interest rate risk
TheGroup’sexposuretotheriskofchangesinmarketinterestratesrelatesprimarilytotheGroup’smedium-termdebtobligationswithafloating
interest rate.
AllborrowingsareheldonfloatingratetermsandsotheGroupisexposedtointerestratemovementsontheseborrowings.TheGroup’spolicy
is to monitor interest rate exposure on this floating rate debt and maintain interest rate swaps through separate financial instruments where
appropriate.During2009twoinstrumentswereenteredinto,tomitigatetheimpactoffloatinginterestrateson60%oftheyearendnetdebt,
which mature in 2012.
At 31 December 2009, if interest rates had been 100 basis points higher for the full financial year, with all other variables held constant, this
would have resulted in a reduction of pre-tax profits of £260,000 and a post-tax reduction in equity of £187,000; if interest rates had been
lower by 25 basis points throughout the financial year the pre-tax profits would have been £65,000 higher and the post-tax impact on equity
would have been an increase of £47,000.
Liquidity risk
The Group regularly monitors its risk to a shortage of funds taking account of the maturity profile of its financial assets and liabilities and the
projected cash flows from operations.
TheGroup’sobjectiveistomaintainabalancebetweencontinuityoffundingandflexibilitythroughamixofmedium-termfundingofcommitted
floating rate facilities supplemented by uncommitted bank overdraft facilities. None of the Group’s medium-term debt should mature in less
than twelve months at 31 December 2009 (2008 27.9%) whilst 40.0% will mature between one and two years from the balance sheet date
(2008 34.8%).
The directors consider this funding structure to be adequate for the Group’s current requirements.
The maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 December 2009 is shown in Note 28.
Foreign currency risk
The Group operates principally in the UK with approximately 2.87% (2008 1.5%) of sales arising from companies operating with functional
currencies other than sterling. The value of currency exposure is not significant to the Group. Where there are known material future currency
inflows consideration will be given to hedging these receipts. Forward currency contracts over US $1.6m were entered into by the Group in
2008 – the remainder of these mature on various dates in 2010-2011 (Note 24). No further forward currency contracts were entered into in
the year ended 31 December 2009.
Credit risk
TheGrouptradesonlywithrecognised,creditworthythirdparties.Generally,customerswhowishtotradeoncredittermsaresubjecttocredit
verification procedures. In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad
debts is not significant. Provision is made against any doubtful debts. The maximum exposure is the carrying amount as disclosed in Note
17. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from the default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount
of these instruments. As at the balance sheet date there are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
ThecreditriskarisingfromtheotherfinancialassetsoftheGroup,whichcomprisecashandcashequivalents,ismanagedbyGrouptreasury
in accordance with Group policy. Investments of surplus funds are only made with established banks approved by the Board. The Group’s
exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
74 27 Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued)
Capital management
TheprimaryobjectiveoftheGroup’scapitalmanagementistoensurethatitmaintainsastrongcreditratingandhealthycapitalratiosinorder
to support the business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, being net debt divided by equity plus net debt. The policy is to maintain the gearing ratio
below 50%. Within net debt the Group includes all interest-bearing loans and borrowings, less cash and cash equivalents.
2009 2008
£000 £000
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 36,000 31,000
Less cash and cash equivalents (19,178) (17,940)
Net debt 16,822 13,060
Equity 128,268 134,767
Capital and net debt 145,090 147,827
Gearing ratio 12% 9%
Forthepurposesofcapitalmanagement,theGroupconsidersundiscountedinterest-bearingloansandborrowingsastheappropriatemeasure
for the purposes of determining net debt. This excludes amounts owed under hire purchase contracts as disclosed in Note 21.
Further details of the Group’s treasury management process is provided within the Financial Performance Report on pages 6 to 8.
28 Financial instruments
The following table sets out the maturity of the Group’s financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk, based on contractual
undiscounted payments.
At 31 December 2009
More
Within 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 than 5
1 year years years years years years Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash assets 19,178 – – – – – 19,178
Trade payables (28,321) – – – – – (28,321)
£10,000,000 bank loan (114) (114) (4,019) – – – (4,247)
£20,000,000 bank loan (403) (403) (12,067) – – – (12,873)
£20,000,000 bank loan (421) (20,386) – – – – (20,807)
Forward currency contract
Outflow (219) (219) – – – – (438)
Inflow 200 203 – – – – 403
Interest rate swaps (212) (29) – – – – (241)
(10,312) (20,948) (16,086) – – – (47,346)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
75 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
28 Financial instruments (continued)
At 31 December 2008
More
Within 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 than 5
1 year years years years years years Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash assets 17,940 – – – – – 17,940
Trade payables (31,229) – – – – – (31,229)
£15,000,000 bank loan (15,368) – – – – – (15,368)
£7,000,000 bank loan (1,207) (6,050) – – – – (7,257)
£9,000,000 bank loan (9,006) – – – – – (9,006)
Forward currency contract
Outflow (822) (242) (242) – – – (1,306)
Inflow 664 200 203 – – – 1,067
Interest rate swaps – – – – – – –
(39,028) (6,092) (39) – – – (45,159)
Carrying amount Fair Value
2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Financial assets
Cash assets 19,178 17,940 13,628 19,178 17,940 13,628
Trade receivables 20,348 18,477 28,727 20,348 18,477 28,727
39,526 36,417 42,355 39,526 36,417 42,355
Financial Liabilities
Trade payables (28,321) (31,229) (32,398) (28,321) (31,229) (32,398)
Other financial liabilities:
Loans (35,651) (31,000) (34,500) (37,578) (31,631) (37,850)
Forward currency contract (35) (239) – (35) (239) –
Interest rate swaps (241) –– (241) ––
Hire purchase commitments (1,944) –– (1,944) ––
(66,192) (62,468) (66,898) (68,119) (63,099) (70,248)
29 Capital commitments
At 31 December 2009, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting
to £1,557,000 (2008 £2,761,000).
30 Contingent liabilities
Communisis plc has provided rental guarantees to landlords in respect of certain leasehold properties occupied by subsidiaries that have
subsequently been sold. To the extent that they have not already been called, these guarantees represent contingent liabilities of the Group.
Other than those leases for which the liability is considered to be remote, the Group has guaranteed rentals on leases with remaining terms
that vary from six months to seven years and with annual rentals that range from £9,000 to £389,000. No provision for these guarantees has
been made in the Financial Statements because, at the balance sheet date, the directors believe that it is not probable that any further
guarantees will be called.
31 Events after the balance sheet date
There have been no events after the balance sheet date that require adjustment to, or disclosure in, these Financial Statements.
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
76 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
32 Cash generated from operations
2009 2008
£000 £000
Continuing operations
Profit before tax 2,597 12,726
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation 6,960 6,438
Amortisation of contract payment 1,000 1,000
Excess of Income Statement pension charge over normal contributions paid (86) 85
Gains arising on disposal of Bath business – (1,380)
Adjustment to deferred consideration for disposal of Bath business 650 –
Exceptional property provisions 2,000 1,969
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 22 55
Share-based payment charge 230 404
Net finance costs 1,960 1,661
Additional contribution to the defined benefit pension plan (2,500) (1,200)
Changes in working capital:
Decrease in inventories 793 447
Decrease in trade and other receivables 497 7,801
Decrease in trade and other payables (9,241) (6,621)
Cash generated from operations 4,882 23,385
33 Related party transactions
During the year the directors were remunerated for services provided to the Group. This is disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report
on pages 28 to 35. The directors are considered to be key management personnel.
There were no other related party transactions in the year.
For details of compensation of key management personnel, see Note 5.3.
34 Investments
TheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsincludetheFinancialStatementsofCommunisisplc,theultimateparentundertaking,andallsubsidiary
undertakings. The Group’s trading subsidiary operations are listed in the following table.
Country of % equity % equity
Name incorporation interest 2009 interest 2008 Immediate parent
Communisis UK Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Communisis plc
Communisis Europe Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Communisis plc
Communisis France SARL France 100 100 Communisis Europe Limited
Communisis Spain SL Spain 100 100 Communisis Europe Limited
Communisis Ireland Limited Ireland 100 100 Communisis UK Limited
Absolute Intuistic Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Communisis UK Limited
TheCompanyhastakenadvantageoftheexemptionavailableundersection410(2)oftheCompaniesAct2006toonlydiscloseabovethose
undertakings that principally affect the results or financial position of the Group.
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
77 Independent Auditors’ Report to the
Members of Communisis plc
We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Communisis plc
for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity and the related Notes 1 to 34. The financial
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permittedbylaw,wedonotacceptorassumeresponsibilitytoanyone
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
setoutonpage15,thedirectorsareresponsibleforthepreparation
of the Group Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the Group
Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s
(APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and
disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable
assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to
the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting
estimatesmadebythedirectors;andtheoverallpresentationofthe
Financial Statements
Opinion on Financial Statements
In our opinion the Group Financial Statements:
give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at
31 December 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended;
have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as
adopted by the European Union; and
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
theinformationgivenintheDirectors’Reportforthefinancialyear
for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent
with the Group Financial Statements; and
the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement
set out on pages 24 to 27 with respect to internal control and
risk management systems in relation to financial reporting
processes and about share capital structures is consistent with
the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by
exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,
in our opinion:
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law
are not made; or
we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit; or
a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by
the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
the directors’ statement, set out on page 20, in relation to going
concern; and
thepartoftheCorporateGovernanceStatementonpages24to
27relatingtotheCompany’scompliancewiththenineprovisions
of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent company Financial
Statements of Communisis plc for the year ended 31 December
2009 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report
that is described as having been audited.
Liz Barber
Senior statutory auditor
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
Leeds
25 February 2010
Report of the Auditors on the Consolidated Financial Statements
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
78 Company Balance Sheet
31 December 2009
2009 2008
Note £000 £000
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 5 784 820
Investments 6 256,047 256,047
256,831 256,867
Current assets
Debtors 7 2,078 2,006
Cash at bank and in hand 8 16,421 12,530
18,499 14,536
Creditors (amounts due within one year)
Borrowings 9 (62,594) (76,094)
Other creditors 10 (8,238) (8,530)
(70,832) (84,624)
Net current liabilities (52,333) (70,088)
Total assets less current liabilities 204,498 186,779
Creditors (amounts due after one year)
Borrowings 9 (35,651) (6,000)
Financial liabilities 11 (45) (81)
Loans due to group undertakings (36,634) (48,600)
Provisions for liabilities 12 (2,409) (1,924)
Net assets excluding net pension liability 129,759 130,174
Net pension liability 17 (1,318) (748)
Net assets 128,441 129,426
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 13 34,651 34,651
Share premium account 15 22 22
Capital redemption reserve 15 1,375 1,375
Merger reserve 15 10,908 10,908
ESOP reserve 15 (338) (338)
Profit and loss account 16 81,823 82,808
Equity shareholders’ funds 128,441 129,426
The Financial Statements on pages 79 to 95 were approved by the Board on 25 February 2010 and signed on its behalf by:
A M Blundell
P R King
Directors
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
79 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders’ Funds
for the year ended 31 December 2009
2009 2008
£000 £000
Profit attributable to shareholders 3,239 159
Ordinary dividends paid (3,452) (3,450)
New share capital issued – 15
Share premium on new share capital issued – 18
Share options exercised – (3)
Loss on cash flow hedges taken to equity (37) (239)
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension plan (1,214) 153
Deferred tax on items taken directly to equity 350 24
Employee share option schemes – value of services provided 129 113
(985) (3,210)
Equity shareholders’ funds at start of year 129,426 132,636
Equity shareholders’ funds at end of year 128,441 129,426
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
80 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2009
1 Accounting policies
1.1 Basis of preparation
TheCompanyFinancialStatementsarepreparedinaccordancewith
applicableUnitedKingdomlawandaccountingstandardsandunder
the historical cost convention and are made up to 31 December
each year.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided by
section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual
Profit and Loss Account and related notes.
The Company has net current liabilities of £52,333,000 (2008
£70,088,000)asat31December2009.TheCompany’sobjectives,
policies and processes for managing its liquidity risk, as well as
potential exposure to cash flow interest rate risk, are described in
Note 27 in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Through the Group, the Company has considerable financial
resources and as a consequence, the directors believe that the
Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully
despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
Aftermakingenquiries,thedirectorshaveareasonableexpectation
thattheCompanyhasadequateresourcestocontinueinoperational
existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to
adoptthegoingconcernbasisinpreparingtheFinancialStatements.
1.2 Summary of significant accounting policies
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets in the Financial Statements of the Company
arestatedatcost,lessaggregatedepreciationandanyprovisionfor
impairment.
Depreciation
The charge is calculated at rates appropriate to write off the cost
less residual value of individual assets from the time they become
operational by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful
economic lives which are principally as follows:
Freehold buildings 25 to 50 years
Plant, equipment and motor vehicles 4 to 10 years
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Fixed asset investments
Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for
impairment.
Impairment
In accordance with FRS 11 ‘Impairment of fixed assets and
goodwill’, fixed assets are subject to an impairment review if
circumstances or events change to indicate that the carrying value
maynotbefullyrecoverable.Thereviewisperformedbycomparing
thecarryingvalueofthefixedassettoitsrecoverableamount,being
the higher of the net realisable value and value in use. The net
realisable value is considered to be the amount that could be
obtained on disposal of the asset. The value in use of the asset is
determinedbydiscounting,atamarket-basedpre-taxdiscountrate,
the expected future cash flows resulting from its continued use,
including those arising from its ultimate disposal.
When the carrying values of fixed assets are written down by any
impairment amount, the loss is recognised in the Profit and Loss
Accountintheperiodinwhichitoccurred.Shouldcircumstancesor
events change and give rise to a reversal of a previous impairment
loss,thereversalisrecognisedintheProfitandLossAccountinthe
period in which it occurs and the carrying value of the asset is
increased. The increase in the carrying value of the asset will only
be up to the amount that it would have been had the original
impairment not occurred.
For the purpose of conducting impairment reviews, income
generatingunitsareconsideredtobegroupsofassetsandliabilities
that generate income, and are largely independent of other income
streams. They also include those assets and liabilities directly
involvedinproducingtheincomeandasuitableproportionofthose
central assets used to produce more than one income stream.
Taxation
Current tax, being UK corporation tax, is provided at amounts
expectedtobepaid(orrecovered)usingthetaxratesandlawsthat
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance
sheet date.
Deferredtaxisrecognisedasaliabilityorassetinrespectofalltiming
differences that have originated but not reversed if the transactions
or events that give rise to an obligation to pay more tax in future, or
a right to pay less tax in future, have occurred by the balance sheet
date, with the following exceptions:
Provisionismadefortaxongainsarisingfromtherevaluation(and
similarfairvalueadjustments)offixedassets,andgainsondisposal
offixedassetsthathavebeenrolledoverintoreplacementassets,
onlytotheextentthat,atthebalancesheetdate,thereisabinding
agreement to dispose of the assets concerned. However, no
provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at
the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable
gainwillberolledoverintoreplacementassetsandchargedtotax
only where the replacement assets are sold;
Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on remittance
of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and
joint ventures only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date,
dividends have been accrued as receivable.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the
directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be
suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences
can be deducted. Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted
basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in
which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is also
recognised in equity.
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
81 Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Foreign currencies
The Company’s functional currency and presentation currency is
pounds sterling. Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at
the rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the
rateofexchangerulingatthebalancesheetdate.Alldifferencesare
taken to the Profit and Loss Account. Non-monetary items that are
measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are
translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial
transactions.Non-monetaryitemsmeasuredatfairvalueinaforeign
currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when
the fair value was determined.
Treasury
ThedirectorshavetakenadvantageoftheexemptioninFRS29and
have excluded disclosures relating to financial instruments from
these Financial Statements as disclosures are included in the
Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group.
Pension costs
The Company operates defined contribution and defined benefit
pension plans.
Payments to defined contribution pension plans are charged as an
expensetotheProfitandLossAccountasincurredwhentherelated
employee service is rendered. The Company has no further legal or
constructive payment obligations once the contributions have been
made.
The defined benefit pension plan is a Group scheme. The
Company’sshareoftheassetsandliabilitiesoftheschemehasbeen
allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis.
For the defined benefit pension plan, the cost of providing benefits is
determined using the Projected Unit Method and the service cost
relating to the benefit earned in the period is recognised in staff costs
in the Profit and Loss Account. An interest cost representing the
unwinding of the discount rate on the scheme’s liabilities, net of the
expected return on scheme assets, is charged to the Profit and Loss
Account.TheliabilityrecognisedintheBalanceSheetinrespectofthe
planisthepresentvalueofthedefinedbenefitobligationatthebalance
sheet date less the fair value of the plan assets net of deferred tax.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent
actuaries. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is
determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using
interestratesofAAratedcorporatebondsthathavetermsofmaturity
approximating to the terms of the relevant pension liability.
All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the present
value of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan
assets are recognised immediately in the Statement of Total
Recognised Gains and Losses.
Leases
OperatingleasepaymentsarerecognisedasanexpenseintheProfit
and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Employee Share Ownership Plan
The Company maintains an Employee Share Ownership Plan
(‘ESOP’). All assets and liabilities of the ESOP are accounted for in
accordance with UITF 38 ‘Accounting for ESOP Trusts’. The
investment in Communisis plc shares held by the ESOP trust is
classified at original cost as a deduction from shareholders’ funds.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction
costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised
cost;anydifferencebetweentheproceeds(netoftransactioncosts)
and the redemption value is recognised in the Profit and Loss
Accountovertheperiodoftheborrowingsusingtheeffectiveinterest
method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Company
has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at
least twelve months after the balance sheet date.
Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is
probablethatanoutflowofresourcesembodyingeconomicbenefits
willberequiredtosettletheobligationandareliableestimatecanbe
made of the amount of the obligation. If the effect of the time value
of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the
expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of money and, where
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is
used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is
recognised as an interest expense.
Share-based payment transactions
Certain directors and management are eligible to participate in
share-based payment schemes all of which are equity-settled, in
return for services provided to Communisis plc.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured
by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
Thefairvalueisdeterminedbyanexternalvaluerusinganappropriate
model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of
any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of
the shares of Communisis plc (‘market conditions’).
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
82 The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with
a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the
performance or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date
on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award
(‘vesting date’). The cumulative expense recognised for equity-
settled transactions at each reporting date reflects the extent to
which the vesting period has expired and the Company’s best
estimateofthenumberofequityinstrumentsthatwillultimatelyvest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest,
exceptforawardswherevestingisconditionaluponamarketornon-
vestingcondition,whicharetreatedasvestingirrespectiveofwhether
or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that
all other performance or service conditions are satisfied.
The Company has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of
FRS20inrespectofequity-settledawardsandhasappliedFRS20
only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that
had not vested on or before 31 December 2004.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had
vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised
in the Profit and Loss Account for the award is expensed
immediately. This includes any award where non-vesting conditions
withinthecontroloftheCompanyortheemployeearenotmet.Any
compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the
cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any
excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the Profit and
Loss Account.
Cash flow hedges
Theeffectiveportionofthegainorlossonthehedginginstrumentis
recognised directly in equity, while any ineffective portion is
recognised immediately in the Profit and Loss Account.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the Profit and Loss
Accountwhenthehedgedtransactionaffectsprofitorloss,suchas
whenthehedgedfinancialincomeorfinancialexpenseisrecognised
or when a forecast sale occurs. Where the hedged item is the cost
of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the amounts taken
to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-
financial asset or liability.
Iftheforecasttransactionorfirmcommitmentisnolongerexpected
tooccur,amountspreviouslyrecognisedinequityaretransferredto
the Profit and Loss Account. If the hedging instrument expires or is
sold,terminatedorexercisedwithoutreplacementorrollover,orifits
designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised
in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction or firm
commitment occurs.
The Company uses forward exchange contracts as hedges of its
exposuretoforeigncurrencyriskinforecastedtransactionsandfirm
commitments.
TheCompanyhastwointerestrateswapsinplacethatareusedas
hedges for the exposure to changes in interest rates on two
£5,000,000 variable loans.
ThedirectorshavetakenadvantageoftheexemptioninFRS25and
have excluded disclosures relating to financial instruments from the
Financial Statements on the basis that the financial instruments of
the Company are included within the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
83 2 Operating costs and income
Auditors’ remuneration
The auditors’ remuneration charged relating to the year was £10,000 (2008 £10,000).
The parent company is exempt from disclosing remuneration for non-audit services as the Group accounts are required to include the
information required by Regulation 4(1)(b) of the Companies Regulations 2005 in respect of the Group.
Employee numbers
The average number of persons employed by the Company during the year was: 2009 2008
United Kingdom 36 31
Directors’ remuneration
Details of individual directors’ remuneration, pension entitlements and interests of the directors in Communisis plc are provided within the
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 35.
Profit attributable to members of the parent company
The profit for the year attributable to members of the parent company was £3,239,000 (2008 £159,000) and is stated after a fixed asset
investment impairment loss of £nil (2008 £4,140,000).
3 Dividends paid and proposed
2009 2008
Declared and paid during the year £000 £000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
Final dividend of the year ended 31 December 2007 of 1.635p per share – 2,261
Interim dividend of the year ended 31 December 2008 of 0.860p per share – 1,189
Final dividend of the year ended 31 December 2008 of 1.635p per share 2,262 –
Interim dividend of the year ended 31 December 2009 of 0.860p per share 1,190 –
3,452 3,450
Proposed for approval at AGM (not recognised as a liability as at 31 December)
Final equity dividend on ordinary shares for 2009 of 0.430p (2008 1.635p) per share 595 2,261
4 Deferred taxation
2009 2008
£000 £000
The asset at 28% (2008 28%) for deferred taxation is as follows:
Accelerated capital allowances 40 51
Other short-term timing differences 830 828
Share-based payments 45 59
Financial liability 77 67
Total deferred tax 992 1,005
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
84 Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
5 Tangible fixed assets
Freehold Plant
Land and and Other
Buildings Vehicles Equipment Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
1 January 2009 1,100 109 625 1,834
Additions –1 6 7
Disposals – (29) – (29)
31 December 2009 1,100 81 631 1,812
Accumulated depreciation
1 January 2009 345 100 569 1,014
Charge for year 20 3 18 41
Disposals – (27) – (27)
31 December 2009 365 76 587 1,028
Net book value 31 December 2009 735 5 44 784
Net book value 31 December 2008 755 9 56 820
6 Investments
Shares Provisions Total
£000 £000 £000
Subsidiaries
1 January 2009 377,233 (121,186) 256,047
Impairment loss –– –
31 December 2009 377,233 (121,186) 256,047
The recoverable amount of investments has been determined based on the value in use of assets comprising the Company’s investment in
subsidiaries,usingrisk-adjustedcashflowprojectionsbasedonfinancialbudgetsapprovedbytheBoard.Theapproachandkeyassumptions
areconsistentwiththoseusedinprioryears.The2008impairmentcalculationhasbeenre-performedtoincludetheactualresultsfortheyear
ended 31 December 2009. This exercise confirmed that no further impairment is necessary.
Thepre-taxdiscountrateappliedtothecashflowprojectionsis8.75%(20088.75%).ThisistheCompany’sweightedaveragecostofcapital
adjusted to reflect market assessment of specific risks associatedwith the projectedcashflows.Cash flows are projectedbased on financial
budgetsapprovedbytheBoardandhavebeensubjecttoreviewandriskadjustment.Adjustmentshavebeenmadetoreflectrisksassociated
with expense inflation, new business growth and market price movements.
The Company’s main subsidiary operations are listed in the following table:
% equity
Country of interest 2009
Name incorporation and 2008 Immediate parent
Communisis UK Limited United Kingdom 100 Communisis plc
Communisis Europe Limited United Kingdom 100 Communisis plc
Communisis Ireland Limited Ireland 100 Communisis UK Limited
Absolute Intuistic Limited United Kingdom 100 Communisis UK Limited
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
85 Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
7 Debtors 2009 2008
£000 £000
Trade debtors 145 26
Amounts owed by group undertakings 9 143
Other debtors 748 755
Prepayments and accrued income 184 77
Deferred tax asset (Note 4) 992 1,005
2,078 2,006
8 Cash at bank and in hand
2009 2008
£000 £000
Cash and bank balances 16,421 12,530
9 Borrowings 2009 2008
Interest rate % Maturity £000 £000
Current
Bank overdrafts Base rate + 3.50 On demand 62,594 51,094
£nil bank loan (2008 £15,000,000) LIBOR + 0.50 September 2009 – 15,000
£nil bank loan (2008 £7,000,000) LIBOR + 0.55 March 2009 – 1,000
£nil bank loan (2008 £9,000,000) LIBOR + 0.60 January 2009 – 9,000
62,594 76,094
Non-current
£nil bank loan (2008 £7,000,000) LIBOR + 0.55 March 2010 – 6,000
£10,000,000 bank loan (2008 £nil) LIBOR + 2.25 February 2012 3,906 –
£20,000,000 bank loan (2008 £nil) LIBOR + 2.75 February 2012 11,812 –
£20,000,000 bank loan (2008 £nil) LIBOR + 1.50 December 2011 19,933 –
35,651 6,000
Bank overdrafts
ThebankoverdraftsareprincipallydenominatedinsterlingandbearinterestatratessetbyreferencetotheUKBaseRate.Theoverdraftsare
secured by cross guarantee arrangements with the relevant banks.
£10,000,000 bank loan
During the year the €9,000,000 multicurrency bank facility was amended to a £10,000,000 multicurrency bank facility. The repayment date
was also extended from 3 May 2010 to 13 February 2012. This facility is secured by a cross guarantee arrangement. In 2008 €nil and £nil
were drawn down under this facility.
£20,000,000 bank loan
This loan is secured by a cross guarantee arrangement and is repayable in one instalment on 13 February 2012.
£20,000,000 bank loan
This loan is secured by a cross guarantee arrangement and is repayable in one instalment on 9 December 2011. This facility replaced the
£9,000,000 bank loan, £5,000,000 bank loan and £7,000,000 bank loan, shown above, in 2009.
At31December2009,theCompanyhadavailable£14,000,000(2008£22,700,000)ofundrawncommittedborrowingfacilitiesinrespectof
which all conditions precedent had been met.
Early repayment is possible under the terms of all the borrowing facilities listed above at no cost by giving more than 5 days notice.
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
86 Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
10 Other creditors (amounts due within one year)
2009 2008
£000 £000
Trade creditors 739 768
Amounts due to group companies 2 29
Other creditors 551 431
Corporation tax payable 4,288 3,555
Taxation and social security 1,310 1,205
Accruals and deferred income 916 1,970
VAT payable 201 414
Financial liability 231 158
8,238 8,530
11 Financial liabilities
2009 2008
£000 £000
Non-current liabilities:
Forward currency contract 16 81
Interest rate swaps 29 –
45 81
Current liabilities:
Forward currency contract 19 158
Interest rate swaps 212 –
231 158
Forward currency contract – cash flow hedge
At 31 December 2009, the Company held forward exchange contracts designated as hedges of expected future sales to customers in the
United States for which the Company has highly probable forecasted transactions. The fair value of these forward currency contracts at 31
December 2009 was £35,000 (2008 £239,000). These mature on various dates between 2010 and 2011.
The forward exchange contracts are being used to hedge the foreign currency risk of the firm commitments.
Interest rate swaps – cash flow hedge
At 31 December 2009, the Group had two interest rate swap agreements in place with a notional amount of £5,000,000 each whereby the
Companypaysafixedrateofinterestof4.48%and5.68%respectively,andreceivesavariablerateequaltoLIBOR+1.50%andLIBOR+2.75%
respectivelyonthenotionalamount.Theswapisbeingusedtohedgetheexposuretochangesintheinterestrateonthethree-yearvariableloans.
12 Provisions for liabilities
Onerous Litigation
leases provisions Total
£000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2009 1,924 – 1,924
Arising during the year 2,000 330 2,330
Utilised (1,753) (92) (1,845)
At 31 December 2009 2,171 238 2,409
Litigation provisions
Thelitigationprovisionrepresentsmanagement’sbestestimateoftheoutcomeofunsettledlitigationcases.Thefinaloutcomedependsupon
negotiations with claimants and final court decisions.
Onerous leases
The exceptional property provisions relate primarily to the estimated costs for the rental obligations, dilapidations and other costs of surplus
premises which are long-term in nature. The provision reflects the estimated discounted net cost to the Company over the remainder of the lease
period(maximum2years).Thisprovisionhasbeenclassifiedasexceptionalbyvirtueofitssizeandthefactthattheliabilitiesarisefrombusinesses
that ceased to be part of Communisis’ trading activities some years ago and therefore the costs are not related to current operating activities.
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
87 13 Called up share capital
2009 2008
Number of Number of
shares £000 shares £000
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 25p each 180,000,000 45,000 180,000,000 45,000
Allotted and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 25p each 138,602,981 34,651 138,602,981 34,651
2009 2008
Nominal Net Nominal Net
value Consideration value Consideration
Number £000 £000 Number £000 £000
Shares allotted during the year
On exercise of options –– – 59,321 15 30
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
The Company has four share option schemes under which options to subscribe for the Company’s shares have been granted to employees
(Note 18).
14 ESOP reserve
TheESOPreserveisusedtorecordtheinvestmentinCommunisisplcsharesheldbytheemployeeshareownershipplan(‘ESOP’).Theplan
is for the benefit of all employees and can be used in conjunction with any of the Group’s share schemes. The ESOP reserve holds 279,628
shares at 31 December 2009 (2008 279,628) and the market value of these shares is £36,352 (2008 £128,629).
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the
original cost being taken to retained earnings. No gain or loss is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account on the purchase, sale, issue or
cancellation of equity shares.
15 Reserves Share Capital
premium redemption Merger ESOP
account reserve reserve reserve
£000 £000 £000 £000
As at 1 January 2008 4 1,375 10,908 (338)
Premium arising on exercise of options in year 18 – – –
As at 31 December 2008 22 1,375 10,908 (338)
Premium arising on exercise of options in year – – – –
As at 31 December 2009 22 1,375 10,908 (338)
16 Profit and Loss Account 2009 2008
£000 £000
As at 1 January 82,808 86,051
Profit for the financial year 3,239 159
Ordinary dividends paid (3,452) (3,450)
Loss on cash flow hedges taken to equity (37) (239)
Actuarial gains recognised in the pension scheme (1,214) 153
Deferred tax on actuarial gains 350 24
Share options exercised – (3)
Employee share option schemes – value of services provided 129 113
As at 31 December 81,823 82,808
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
88 Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
17 Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans
2009 2008
£000 £000
Pension liability (1,830) (1,039)
Deferred tax 512 291
Net pension liability (1,318) (748)
The Company has complied with the requirements of FRS 17 in the current and preceding period. These Financial Statements include a
proportion of the Group pension deficit and charge which has been allocated to the Company.
The Company operates defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans.
Defined contribution schemes
TheCompanyoperatesUKdefinedcontributionarrangements.TheassetsofthearrangementsareheldseparatelyfromthoseoftheCompany.
TheCompanyisrequiredtocontributeaspecifiedpercentageofpayrollcoststotheretirementbenefitschemetofundthebenefits.Theonly
obligation of the Company with respect to the retirement benefit scheme is to make the specified contributions.
The total cost charged to income of £97,000 (2008 £91,000) represents contributions payable to these arrangements by the Company at
specified rates. As at 31 December 2009, contributions of £nil (2008 £nil) due in respect of the current reporting period have not been paid
over to the arrangements.
The Company expects to contribute £0.1m to the defined contribution pension arrangements in 2010.
Defined benefit scheme
The defined benefit pension scheme closed to new members on 6 April 2005.
Followingthestatutoryconsultationperiod,thedefinedbenefitpensionplanclosedtofutureaccrualfrom1December2007.Theschemewas
closed for all members.
The defined benefit schemes are as follows:
Final salary
The final salary section provides a pension of one sixtieth or one eightieth (depending on the level of employee contribution) of final salary at
normal retirement age for each year of pensionable service. This is subject to the benefit not exceeding one thirtieth of the scheme specific
earningscap,whichappliestomemberswhojoinedthePlanonorafter1June1989,foreachyearofpensionableservice.Normalretirement
age is 65.
Career average revalued earnings
The career average revalued earnings section provides an accrual each year of a unit of one forty-fifth, one sixtieth or one eightieth
(dependingonthelevelofemployeecontribution)ofpensionablesalaryforthatyear.Theunitisthenrevaluedineachsubsequentyearbythe
rate of growth in the Retail Prices Index until normal retirement age. The normal retirement age under this section is 65 except for certain
executives, where the accrual rate is one forty-fifth, whose normal retirement age is set at 62.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of the fair value of total plan assets are as follows:
2009 2008
Asset category %%
Equities 45 51
Bonds/Gilts/Cash 35 28
Property 7 7
Other 13 14
100 100
None of the above represents equities or bonds issued by the Company, nor properties owned by the Company.
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
89 Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
17 Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans (continued)
Todeveloptheexpectedlong-termrateofreturnonassetsassumptionfortheyearended31December2009,theCompanyconsideredthe
currentlevelofexpectedreturnonrisk-freeinvestments(primarilygovernmentbonds),thehistoricalleveloftheriskpremiumassociatedwith
the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. The expected return for
each asset class was then weighted, based on the asset allocation, to develop the assumed expected long-term rate of return on assets of
7.02% for the portfolio for the year ended 31 December 2009 (2008 7.0%).
The principal weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations for the Company’s plan are shown below:
2009 2008
%%
Discount rate 5.9 6.6
Rate of compensation increase 3.5 3.9
Inflation assumption 3.5 2.9
Mortality rates
Assumed life expectancy for a member aged 65 is as follows: Years Years
Current pensioners:
Male 20.1 19.4
Female 22.6 22.3
Future pensioners:
Male 21.4 20.4
Female 23.8 23.1
Deferred pensions are revalued to retirement age in line with the plan’s rules and statutory requirements.
The Company expects to contribute £0.6m to the defined benefit pension scheme in 2010.
The amounts which have been recognised in the Company Profit and Loss Account and in the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and
Losses for the year are analysed as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Analysis of net return on pension scheme
Expected return on scheme assets 1,025 1,150
Interest cost on scheme liabilities (1,090) (1,119)
Interest (charge)/income (65) 31
Analysis of amount recognised in Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 1,633 (3,918)
Experience (losses)/gains on liabilities (2,847) 4,071
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses (1,214) 153
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
90 Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
17 Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans (continued)
Benefit asset/(liability)
2009 2008
£000 £000
Defined benefit obligation (18,462) (15,994)
Fair value of plan assets 16,632 14,955
Net pension deficit (1,830) (1,039)
The defined benefit obligation comprises £18.5 million (2008 £16 million) arising from a partly funded plan.
Present value of the defined benefit obligation
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Opening defined benefit obligation 15,994 19,689
Interest cost 1,090 1,119
Benefits paid (1,469) (743)
Actuarial losses/(gains) on obligations 2,847 (4,071)
Closing defined benefit obligation 18,462 15,994
Fair value of plan assets
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
Opening fair value of plan assets 14,955 18,275
Expected return on plan assets 1,025 1,150
Contributions by employer 488 191
Benefits paid (1,469) (743)
Actuarial gains/(losses) on assets 1,633 (3,918)
Closing fair value of plan assets 16,632 14,955
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
91 Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
17 Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans (continued)
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Five-year history £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Present value of defined benefit obligation (18,462) (15,994) (19,689) (19,248) (20,173)
Fair value of plan assets 16,632 14,955 18,275 17,419 15,578
Deficit (1,830) (1,039) (1,414) (1,829) (4,595)
History of experience gains and losses
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Experience adjustments on plan assets (£000) 1,633 (3,918) (120) 345 1,409
Percentage of scheme assets -10% 26% 1% 2% 9%
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities (£000) (262) (152) – 1,277 –
Percentage of scheme liabilities -1% -1% 0% 7% 0%
Total amount recognised in Statement of Total Recognised
Gains and Losses (£000) (1,214) 153 63 2,917 (359)
Percentage of scheme liabilities -7% 1% 1% 11% (2%)
18 Share-based payments
Undershareoptionschemes,shareoptionstosubscribeforordinarysharesof25peachoutstandingat31December2009wereasfollows:
Sharesave Scheme
Options Options Options Options
held at granted lapsed held at Option
1 Jan 2009 during the year in the year 31 Dec 2009 price Exercisable
Number Number Number Number (p)
132,772 – (132,772) – 91.00 2009
1,481,193 – (1,286,523) 194,670 60.00 2010
– 4,346,413 (60,984) 4,285,429 25.00 2012-2013
1,613,965 4,346,413 (1,480,279) 4,480,099
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
92 Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
18 Share-based payments (continued)
Executive Share Option Schemes
Options Options Options Options
held at granted lapsed held at Option
1 Jan 2009 during the year in the year 31 Dec 2009 price Exercisable
Number Number Number Number (p)
740,740 – (740,740) – 47.25 2011-2018
248,062 – – 248,062 64.50 2010-2017
821,917 – (821,917) – 73.00 2009-2016
417,567 – (417,567) – 74.00 2010-2017
767,229 – (767,229) – 91.25 2009-2016
616,967 – (120,942) 496,025 105.50 2006-2013
96,000 – (48,000) 48,000 125.00 2006-2012
605,260 – (87,084) 518,176 156.25 2006-2010
331,177 – (180,590) 150,587 162.67 2006-2012
104,792 – (56,634) 48,158 176.50 2006-2011
4,749,711 – (3,240,703) 1,509,008
Long Term Incentive Plan
Options Options Options Options
held at granted lapsed held at Option
1 Jan 2009 during the year in the year 31 Dec 2009 price Exercisable
Number Number Number Number (p)
910,270 – (90,000) 820,270 0.00 2010-2012
1,000,000 – (90,000) 910,000 0.00 2011-2013
– 400,000 – 400,000 0.00 2012-2014
1,910,270 400,000 (180,000) 2,130,270
Options awarded to the Chairman
Options Options Options Options
held at granted lapsed held at Option
1 Jan 2009 during the year in the year 31 Dec 2009 price Exercisable
Number Number Number Number (p)
250,000 – – 250,000 0.00 2010-2012
250,000 – – 250,000
The Executive Share Option Scheme 2000
CertaindirectorsandmanagementareeligibletoparticipateintheaboveschemeatthediscretionoftheRemunerationCommittee.Theexercise
price of the options is equal to the market value of the shares on the date of grant. In respect of options granted prior to 1 January 2005 the
options vest if the percentage increase in normalised earnings (i.e. before intangibles amortisation, restructuring costs and other exceptional
items) per share over any three consecutive financial years exceeds the percentage increase in the Retail Prices Index over that period by an
average of at least 3% per annum. The contractual life of each option granted is ten years. There are no cash settlement alternatives.
In respect of options granted since 1 January 2005 if the performance condition is not met within three years from the date of grant, the
options lapse.
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
93 Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
18 Share-based payments (continued)
For options granted to the former Chief Executive in 2006 and all options granted under this scheme in 2007 and 2008, 50% of the options
vest if the Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) of the Company, as compared to the TSR performance of all companies in the Support Services
sector of the FTSE All Share Index (excluding FTSE 100 companies), is at or above the median level over a three-year period. The other 50%
of the options vest if the TSR of the Company, as compared to the TSR performance of all companies in the FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding
investmenttrusts),isatorabovethemedianleveloverathree-yearperiod.Iftheperformanceconditionisnotfulfilledwithinthethree-yearperiod
from the date of grant, the options lapse. The contractual life of each option granted is ten years. There are no cash settlement alternatives.
No options were granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 in the year ended 31 December 2009. The fair value of options
grantedunderthisschemeintheyearto31December2008wereestimatedonthedateofgrantusingahybridsimulationandbinomialoption
pricingmodel,takingintoaccountthetermsandconditionsuponwhichtheoptionsweregranted.Thefollowingweightedaverageassumptions
wereusedinthatmodel:anexpectedlifeextendingsixmonthslaterthantheexercisedate;sharepriceatthedateofgrantof£0.52;estimated
annualised dividend yield of approximately 6.0%; risk-free interest rate of approximately 4.5% and expected volatility of 38.0%. Volatility has
beendeterminedbyreferencetoCommunisisplc’sandcomparatorcompanies’historicalvolatilityoverathree-yearperiod,whichisexpected
to reflect the share price of Communisis plc in the future. The weighted average fair value of the share options granted in the year ended
31 December 2008 was £0.117.
Theexpectedlifeoftheoptionsisbasedonhistoricaldataandisnotnecessarilyindicativeofexercisepatternswhichmayoccur.Theexpected
volatility reflects historical volatility adjusted for future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome. Both the historical and
expected volatilities reflect the volatility of the share prices of Communisis plc and comparator companies.
The Communisis Long Term Incentive Plan 2007
CertaindirectorsandmanagementareeligibletoparticipateinthisplanatthediscretionoftheRemunerationCommittee.Inrespectofoptions
granted under the scheme the exercise price is £nil. For all options granted in 2007 to 2009, 50% of the options become exercisable if the
TSR of the Company, as compared to the TSR performance of all companies in the Support Services sector of the FTSE All Share Index
(excluding FTSE100companies),isator abovethemedianleveloverathree-yearperiod. Theother50% of theoptionsbecomeexercisable
iftheTSRoftheCompany,ascomparedtotheTSRperformanceofallcompaniesintheFTSESmallCapIndex(excludinginvestmenttrusts),
is at or above the median level over a three-year period. 30% of each tranche of options will vest for performance at the median of the
comparatorgrouprising,onastraight-linebasis,to100%vestingforperformanceinthetopdecileofthecomparatorgroup.Iftheperformance
conditions are not fulfilled within the three-year period from the date of grant, the options lapse. The contractual life of each option granted is
five years. There are no cash settlement alternatives.
The fair value of options granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 in the year to 31 December 2009 has been estimated on the date
ofgrantusingabinomialsimulationoptionpricingmodel,takingintoaccountthetermsandconditionsuponwhichtheoptionsweregranted.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in that model: an expected life of three years; share price at the date of grant of
£0.1945(2008£0.529);estimatedannualiseddividendyieldofapproximately7.8%(20086.0%);risk-freeinterestrateofapproximately2.63%
(2008 4.2%) and expected volatility of 48.8% (2008 38.0%).
Volatility has been determined by reference to Communisis plc’s and comparator companies’ historical volatility over a three-year period,
which is expected to reflect the share price of Communisis plc in the future. The weighted average fair value of the share options granted in
the year ended 31 December 2009 under this plan was £0.1048 (2008 £0.27155).
Theexpectedlifeoftheoptionsisbasedonhistoricaldataandisnotnecessarilyindicativeofexercisepatternswhichmayoccur.Theexpected
volatility reflects historical volatility adjusted for future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome. Both the historical and
expected volatilities reflect the volatility of the share prices of Communisis plc and comparator companies.
Options awarded to the Chairman
On 19 December 2007, shortly after his appointment, Mr Hickson was awarded 250,000 nil cost share options in the Company, and on
20December2007,heenteredacontractwithRBCTrustCompany(Jersey)Limited(‘RBC’)fortheseoptions,onexercise,tobesatisfiedby
thetransferofordinarysharesalreadyheldbytheCompany’sEmployeeBenefitTrust,ofwhichRBCistheTrustee.Thegrantofthoseoptions
was conditional upon the purchase by Mr Hickson of 250,000 ordinary shares in the Company (‘the Matching Shares’); this purchase was
executed on 18 December 2007. The principal conditions for the exercise of these options are that the options will not normally vest until the
third anniversary of the date of grant (‘the Vesting Date’); if he ceases to be the beneficial owner of some or all of the Matching Shares before
the Vesting Date the extent of the vesting will be reduced accordingly; if he ceases to be an employee of the Group, or in the event of a
takeover, before the Vesting Date, his options will normally vest on a time pro-rata basis; exercise may normally take place only between the
Vesting Date and the fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
No further options have been awarded to Mr Hickson in 2008 nor 2009.
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
94 Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2009
18 Share-based payments (continued)
The Sharesave Scheme
All UK employees (including directors) are eligible to participate in the Communisis Sharesave Scheme. The exercise price of the options is
usually equal to the market price of the shares at the date of invitation to participate less a maximum discount of 20%. In the year ended
31 December 2009, sharesave options were granted at par value of 25p per share. The options vest on either the third or fifth anniversary of
the commencement of the savings period. Any options which have not been exercised within six months of the vesting date lapse.
The weighted average fair value of sharesave options granted in the year ended 31 December 2009 has been estimated at the date of grant
using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The following weighted average assumptions were used in that model: option holders will
exercise their option at expiry; share price at the date of grant of £0.19; estimated annualised dividend yield of approximately 7.8%; risk-free
interest rate of 2.65% and expected volatility of 57%. The volatility has been determined by reference to Communisis plc’s and comparator
companies’historicalvolatilityoverathree-yearperiod,adjustedforexpectedfuturetrends,toreflectthesharepriceofCommunisisplcinthe
future. The exercise price is £0.25 for options exercisable three years after the date of grant. No options exercisable five years after the date
ofgrantweregrantedin2009.Theweightedaveragefairvalueoftheshareoptionsgrantedintheyearended31December2009was£0.04.
No sharesave options were granted in 2008 and therefore no comparatives are required.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share.
Thefollowingtableillustratesthenumberandweightedaverageexerciseprices(WAEP)of,andmovementsin,shareoptionsduringtheyear.
2009 2009 2008 2008
Number WAEP £ Number WAEP £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
1
4,945,172 0.63073 3,863,734 0.74310
Granted during the year 648,106 0.17671 1,310,740 0.26702
Forfeited during the year (1,293,757) 0.57219 (177,822) 1.13535
Expired during the year (1,100,107) 0.77614 (51,480) 1.76675
Outstanding at the end of the year
1
3,199,414 0.45412 4,945,172 0.63073
Exercisable at the end of the year 462,175 1.56250 462,175 1.56250
1
Included within this balance are options over 514,647 shares (2008 514,647 shares) that have not been recognised in accordance with FRS 20 as the
options were granted on or before 7 November 2002. These options have not been subsequently modified and therefore do not need to be accounted for
in accordance with FRS 20.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2009 is 3.31 years (2008 6.17 years).
The weighted average fair value of all options granted during the year was £0.06288 (2008 £0.18197).
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was £nil – £1.765 (2008 £nil – £1.765). The number of share
options for which the share price is £nil total 1,620,270 (2008 1,430,270).
19 Other financial commitments
At 31 December 2009 the Company had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases for assets as set out below:
Land and buildings
2009 2008
£000 £000
Operating leases which expire:
– within one year 16 45
– in two to five years 225 518
– over five years 9 9
250 572
Other
2009 2008
£000 £000
Operating leases which expire:
– within one year 15 8
– in two to five years 49 40
64 48
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
95 Report of the Auditors on the Company Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report to the
Members of Communisis plc
We have audited the parent company Financial Statements of
Communisis plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which
comprise the Company Balance Sheet, the Reconciliation of
Movements in Equity Shareholders’ Funds and the related Notes 1 to
19. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their
preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting
Standards(UnitedKingdomGenerallyAcceptedAccountingPractice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permittedbylaw,wedonotacceptorassumeresponsibilitytoanyone
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
setoutonpage15,thedirectorsareresponsibleforthepreparation
of the parent company Financial Statements and for being satisfied
that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the
parentcompanyFinancialStatementsinaccordancewithapplicable
lawandInternationalStandardsonAuditing(UKandIreland).Those
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s
(APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and
disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable
assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to
the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall
presentation of the Financial Statements.
Opinion on Financial Statements
In our opinion the parent company Financial Statements:
giveatrueandfairviewofthestateoftheCompany’saffairsasat
31 December 2009;
havebeenproperlypreparedinaccordancewithUnitedKingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
2006; and
theinformationgivenintheDirectors’Reportforthefinancialyear
forwhichtheFinancialStatementsarepreparedisconsistentwith
the parent company Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by
exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where
theCompaniesAct2006requiresustoreporttoyouif,inouropinion:
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent
company,orreturnsadequateforouraudithavenotbeenreceived
from branches not visited by us; or
the parent company Financial Statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
certaindisclosuresofdirectors’remunerationspecifiedbylaware
not made; or
we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of
Communisis plc for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Liz Barber
Senior statutory auditor
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
Leeds
25 February 2010
Communisis plc 2009 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
96 Shareholder Information
Company Secretary Sarah Morton
Registered Office Communisis plc
Wakefield Road
Leeds
LS10 1DU
Tel: +44 (0) 113 277 0202
Fax: +44 (0) 113 271 3503
Registered in England Number 2916113
Visit our website at www.communisis.com
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP
Bridgewater Place
Water Lane
Leeds
LS11 5QR
Principal Bankers Barclays Bank PLC
Lloyds Banking Group plc
KBC Bank NV
Allied Irish Bank plc
Fortis Bank SA/NV
Solicitors Eversheds LLP
Bridgewater Place
Water Lane
Leeds
LS11 5DR
Registrars Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
HD8 0LA
Tel: 0871 664 0300
Tel: +44 20 8639 3399 (for overseas shareholders)
Fax: +44 (0) 1484 600911
www.capitaregistrars.co.uk
For all shareholder enquiries and changes of name and address
please contact Capita Registrars direct.
Annual Report & Financial Statements Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
97 Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
98
Communisis plc 2009
Shareholder Information continued
Stockbrokers Investec Securities
2 Gresham Street
London
EC2V 7QP
Stock Exchange Listing The Company’s ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Electronic communications Shareholders can register to receive shareholder information electronically by visiting the
Company’s registrars’ website and registering their details online.
Financial calendar Financial year end 2009 31 December 2009
Results for 2009 announced 25 February 2010
Ex-dividend date 31 March 2010
Record date 6 April 2010
Annual General Meeting 27 April 2010
Payment date for 2009 final dividend 4 May 2010
Half Year results for 2010 announced August 2010
Results for 2010 announced February 2011
Final dates and any changes will be announced and notified as appropriate. Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
99
Annual Report & Financial Statements
Summary Notice of Annual General Meeting
Summary of business to be transacted at the 2010 Annual General Meeting
ThefulltextoftheNoticeofMeeting,togetherwiththeexplanatorynotes,issetoutinaseparatedocument,enclosedwiththisAnnualReport
and Financial Statements.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 3.00p.m. on 27 April 2010, at Eversheds LLP, Bridgewater Place, Water Lane,
Leeds, LS11 5DR.
Business to be transacted at the Annual General Meeting
1. To receive the Company’s Annual Report and Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2009.
2. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
3. To approve and confirm the payment of a dividend.
4. To re-elect Mr M G Firth as a director of the Company.
5. To re-elect Mr N G Howes as a director of the Company.
6. To elect Mr A M Blundell as a director of the Company.
7. To elect Mr D Rushton as a director of the Company.
8 To elect Mr J A Wells as a director of the Company.
9. To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
10. To adopt new Articles of Association.
11. To authorise the Board to maintain a 14 days’ notice period for calling general meetings of the Company.
12. To authorise the purchase by the Company of its own shares.
13. To authorise the directors to allot securities generally.
14. To authorise the directors to allot securities for cash.
15. To authorise electronic communication with shareholders.
16. To approve the adoption of the Communisis 2010 Executive Share Option Plan.
A Form of Proxy for use in connection with the business to be transacted at the Annual General Meeting is enclosed with the
Notice of Meeting. Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
100
Contact Details
Communisis plc
Head Office
Wakefield Road
Leeds
LS10 1DU
Tel: +44 (0) 113 277 0202
London Office
Devonshire House
146 Bishopsgate
London
EC2M 4JX
Tel: +44 (0) 207 426 4690
UK Locations
Crewe – Transactional
Frances Street
Crewe
Cheshire
CW2 6HG
Tel: +44 (0) 127 050 2600
Leeds – Direct Mail
Manston Lane
Cross Gates
Leeds
LS15 8AH
Tel: +44 (0) 113 225 5000
Leeds – Technology & Services
Manston Lane
Cross Gates
Leeds
LS15 8AH
Tel: +44 (0) 113 225 2555
Leicester – Print Sourcing
Centurion Way
Meridian Business Park
Leicester
LE19 1PZ
Tel: +44 (0) 116 240 6700
Lisburn – Transactional
P.O. Box 22
Altona Road
Lisburn
County Antrim
BT27 5QU
Tel: +44 (0) 289 260 6800
Liverpool – Transactional
Estuary Commerce Park
1 Hercules Drive
Speke
Merseyside
L24 8AD
Tel: +44 (0) 151 728 5100
Manchester – Transactional
Trafford Wharf Road
Manchester
M17 1HE
Tel: +44 (0) 161 869 1000
Newcastle – Print Sourcing
Balliol Business Park West
Benton Lane
Newcastle Upon Tyne
NE12 8EW
Tel: +44 (0) 191 201 5000
Rickmansworth – Print Sourcing
34/36 High Street
Rickmansworth
Hertfordshire
WD3 1ER
Tel: +44 (0) 192 389 1000
Richmond – Technology & Services
Ai House
Holbrooke Place
Hill Rise
Richmond
Surrey
TW10 6UD
Tel: +44 (0) 208 614 7333
Nottingham – Technology & Services
Cumberland House
35 Park Row
Nottingham
NG1 6EE
Tel: +44 (0) 115 988 6268
Europe
France – Print Sourcing
19 bis, rue de la Tourelle
95170 Deuil La Barre
Paris
France
Tel: +33 (0) 134 050 530
Ireland – Print Sourcing
Bank Centre
Ballsbridge
Dublin 4
Ireland
Tel: +353 (0) 1641 6173
Communisis plc 2009 P104
Communisis • 2009 Annual Report & Financial Statements
Cert no. SGS-COC-1202
2009 Annual Report & Financial Statements
Communsis plc
Wakefield Road Leeds LS10 1DU
www.communisis.com
WE ARE EXPERTS 
IN CUSTOMER
COMMUNICATIONS
